www.mtb.com 
M&T BANK CORPORATION  /  2012 ANNUAL REPORT 10%
SEC 10
-KM&T BANK CORPORA
TION
2012 
ANNUAL 
REPOR
T DIVIDEND A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their dividends and
 REINVESTMENT PLAN   
voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M
&T Bank Corporation™s common stock.
   INQUIRIES  
Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions about 
 stock certi˜cates, dividend checks or other account information should be addressed to 
 
M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent:
 
 Registrar and Transfer Company
 10 Commerce Drive 
  Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572 800-368-5948

 E-mail address: info
@rtco.com
 Internet address: www.rtco.com
 
  Requests for additional copies of this publication or annual or quarterly reports ˜led with the 
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q), which are 

available at no charge, may be directed to:
 
 M&T Bank Corporation
 Shareholder Relations Department
 One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor
 Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399 716-842-5138

 E-mail address: ir
@mtb.com
 
 All other general inquiries may be directed to: 716-635-4000
  INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 
 QUOTATION AND TRADING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the symbol MTB on the 
 OF CO
MMON STOCK   
New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ). 
COVER ART: Italian-born artist and sculptor Arieto (Harry) Bertoia was renowned for his innovative 
use of media. As his body of work grew, Bertoia became widely sought a˛er to create unique pieces 
 for notable buildings and museums.
In 1967, Bertoia was commissioned to design a fountain to commemorate the opening of M&T Bank™s 
headquarters, designed by famed architect Minoru Yamasaki, at One M&T Plaza in downtown Bu˚alo. 

˝e resulting design is a shell-like form constructed from bundles of copper tubes. Water pools and 
 spills over the sculpture™s curvilinear form into a shallow, aqua-colored pool. ˝e fountain is set within 
 a tree-lined public plaza where free concerts are given each business day during the summer. 
As good stewards of the sculpture, M&T Bank embarked on a restoration project in 2010. ˝e artist™s 
 own son, Val Bertoia, an accomplished artist in his own right, proudly took on the task of refurbishing 
the sculpture his father had created more than four decades before.
Harry Bertoia (1915-1978), Untitled, 1967, Copper, Commissioned by M&T Bank, Photograph by Bi˜ Henrich
i CONTENTS
 Financial Highlights
 ........................................ii  Message to Shareholders
 ....................................iv  O˜cers and Directors
 ....................................xxxi  United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K
 ..xxxiv
 ANNUAL MEETING  ˚e annual meeting of shareholders will take place at 11:00 a.m. on 
 April 16, 2013 at One M&T Plaza in Bu˛alo.
 PROFILE  
M&T Bank Corporation is a bank holding company headquartered in 
  Bu˛alo, New York, which had assets of $83.0 billion at December 31, 2012.
   
M&T Bank Corporation™s subsidiaries include M&T Bank and Wilmington 
Trust, National Association.
   M&T Bank has domestic banking o˜ces in New York State, Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia, 
 and has o˜ces in Ontario, Canada and the Cayman Islands. 
 Major subsidiaries include:
M&T BANK CORPORAT
ION  M&T Insurance Agency, Inc.
  M&T Real Estate Trust
  M&T Realty Capital Corporation
  M&T Securities, Inc.
   Wilmington Trust Company 
  Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc.
   iiM&T BANK CORPORAT
ION AND SUBSIDIARIESFinancial Highlights(a)  Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related gains and 
expenses which, except in the calculation of the e˜ciency ratio, are net of applicable income tax e˚ects. A reconciliation of net income 
and net operating income appears in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
(b)  Excludes impact of merger-related gains and expenses and net securities transactions.
 2012
 2011 Change
For the year
Performance
 Net income (thousands)
 ...........  $1,029,498
 $859,479
 + 20% Net income available to common 
   shareholders Œ diluted (thousands)
 .... 953,429 781,765 + 22% Return on
  Average assets 
 .................  1.29% 1.16%  Average common equity
 ..........  10.96% 9.67% Net interest margin
 ..............  3.73% 3.73% Net charge-o˛s/average loans
 .......  .30% .47%Per common share data
 Basic earnings
 .................   $    7.57 $   6.37 + 19% Diluted earnings
 ...............  7.54 6.35 + 19% Cash dividends
 ................ 2.80 2.80     Š Net operating (tangible) results
(a) Net operating income (thousands)
 ....  $1,072,510
 $884,253
 + 21% Diluted net operating earnings 
   per common share
 ..............  7.88 6.55 + 20% Net operating return on
  Average tangible assets
 ...........  1.40% 1.26%  Average tangible common equity
 .....  19.42% 17.96% E˜ciency ratio
(b) ...............  56.19% 60.43%At December 31
Balance sheet data (millions)
 Loans and leases, 
  net of unearned discount
 ..........  $  66,571 $ 60,096 + 11% Total assets
 ...................  83,009 77,924 + 7% Deposits
 .....................  65,611 59,395 + 10% Total shareholders™ equity
 ..........  10,203 9,271 + 10%  Common shareholders™ equity
 ....... 9,327 8,403 + 11%Loan quality
 Allowance for credit losses to total loans 
 .  1.39% 1.51% Nonaccrual loans ratio
 ............  1.52% 1.83%Capital
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 .......  10.22% 9.67%  Total risk-based capital ratio
 ........ 13.39%  13.26%  Leverage ratio
 .................  10.07% 9.28% Tier 1 common ratio
 ............. 7.57% 6.86%  Total equity/total assets
 ............  12.29% 11.90% Common equity (book value) per share
 .. $   72.73 $  66.82
 + 9% Tangible common equity per share
 .... 44.61 37.79 + 18% Market price per share
  Closing
 .....................  98.47 76.34 + 29%  High
 .......................  105.33 91.05  Low
 .......................  76.82 66.40  iiiDILUTED EARNINGSPER COMMON SHARE 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Diluted net operating(a)Diluted$5.39 $3.54 $5.84 $6.55 $7.88$5.01 $2.89 $5.69 $6.35 $7.54RETURN ON AVERAGE COMMONSHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Net operating return on average tangible  common shareholders™ equity(a)Return on average common shareholders™ equity19.63% 13.42% 18.95% 17.96% 19.42%8.64%   5.07%   9.30% 9.67% 10.96%NET INCOMEIn millions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Net operating income(a)Net income$598.6 $455.4 $755.2 $884.3 $1,072.5$555.9 $379.9 $736.2 $859.5 $1,029.5SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITYPER COMMON SHARE AT YEAR-END 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012Shareholders™ equity per common share  
at year-end 
Tangible shareholders™ equity per common share at year-end$56.29 $59.31 $63.54 $66.82 $72.73$25.94 $28.27 $33.26 $37.79 $44.61(a) Excludes merger-related gains and expenses and amortization of intangible assets, net of applicable income tax e˚ects. 
 A reconciliation of net operating (tangible) results with net income is included in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
ivMESSA
GE TO
 SHA
REHO
LD
ERSv his past year marked an unequaled period of performance, in which 
M&T earned record levels of net income and earnings per common share, 
while providing much needed lending and deposit services to our communities. 
Revenues were up, most notably in mortgage banking, where we helped 38,172 
customers purchase homes or re˝nance their mortgage. ˚ese trends were also 

aided by higher levels of trust income, where we completed the integration of 

Wilmington Trust through the conversion of systems and operations onto a single 

platform. We increased our share of consumer and business relationships in upstate 

New York adding to both loans and deposits. We completed M&T™s exit from 
the government™s Troubled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) without diluting the 
ownership interests of common shareholders. Most notably, we earned a 19.42% 
 net operating return on strengthened levels of average tangible common equity.
Of course these and other accomplishments re˙ect the hard work and 
dedication of our employees. ˚e year was characterized by so extensive an 

e˛ort on the part of our workforce that I can scarcely recall its equal, including 

completion of one acquisition and preparation for another, submission of a 

stress test and preparation of another, and a once in a generation opportunity 

in upstate New York. As always, I owe them my gratitude. Presented below is 
 a summary of last year™s ˝nancial results.
Net income in 2012 measured in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) was $1.03 billion, an improvement of 20% 

from $859 million in 2011. Diluted earnings per common share were $7.54, 
 a 19% increase from $6.35 per share in the year prior. 
TviIn an e˛ort to help investors better understand the impact of acquisition 
activity on M&T™s results, we provide supplemental reporting on a ﬁnet 
operatingﬂ or ﬁtangibleﬂ basis. Net operating results exclude the aˆer-tax 
impact of merger-related gains and integration expenses, as well as the e˛ect 
of core deposit and other intangible assets on both the income statement and 

the balance sheet. Using that measure, net operating income totaled $1.07 

billion in 2012 and $884 million in 2011. ˚at represents a 21% year-over-year 

improvement. Diluted net operating income per common share rose 20% in 

2012, to $7.88. ˚at ˝gure was $6.55 in 2011. Last year™s net operating income 
represented a rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible 
common shareholders™ equity of 1.40% and 19.42%, respectively. For 2011, 
 the comparable returns were 1.26% and 17.96%. ˚e details behind the 
 GAAP-based results and the net operating results are reconciled in the 

accompanying Form 10-K.
M&T™s basic business of making loans and taking deposits improved 
during the past year. Average loans and leases grew by $6.5 billion, or 12%, to 

$62.7 billion. Part of that increase re˙ects the inclusion of a full twelve months 

of Wilmington Trust™s operations in M&T™s results, as opposed to seven and 

one-half months in 2011. But beyond the impact from the acquisition, loan 
growth overall improved as well. Loans at the end of 2012 increased 11% from 
the end of 2011. Average deposits increased $6.3 billion, or 11%, to $62.0 billion. 

Of note, from the end of 2011 to the end of 2012, deposits increased 10%, or $6.2 

billion, to $65.6 billion.  
Average earning assets increased 9% to $70.3 billion in 2012 from $64.7 
billion in 2011. ˚at increase contributed to a similar 9% improvement in taxable-

equivalent net interest income, which rose to $2.62 billion in 2012. ˚e net 

interest margin, or taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as a percentage 
vii
of average earning assets, held steady between the years. ˚at core measure of 
pro˝tability registered at 3.73% in both 2012 and 2011. 
While the economy is not as strong or growing as rapidly as we might 
wish, the repayment performance of our customers continues to improve. 
 ˚at better performance manifests itself in two ways. First, as has been the case 

historically, improving economic conditions led to lower levels of nonaccrual 
loans and overall credit costs. Net loan charge-o˛s declined to $186 million 
last year, an improvement from $265 million in 2011. ˚e net charge-o˛ ratio, 

which is expressed as a percentage of average loans outstanding, declined to 

0.30% in 2012 from 0.47% in the prior year. ˚at ratio continues to be the 

lowest among the group of large regional and super-regional commercial 

banks that we consider to be our peers. By way of perspective, over the past 
30 years this ˝gure has averaged 0.37%. ˚e level of nonaccrual loans, those 
on which we no longer accrue interest income due to concern about their full 

collectibility, also improved when compared with 2011. ˚at improvement 

came both in dollar terms and as a percentage of balances outstanding. 

Nonaccrual loans totaled $1.01 billion at the end of 2012, amounting to 1.52% 
of loans outstanding. ˚e corresponding amount was $1.10 billion or 1.83% 
of outstanding balances at the end of 2011. Despite that noteworthy progress, 

nonaccrual loans and the nonaccrual loan ratio remain elevated compared to 

what we would expect in a healthier economic environment.
˚e second indication of improving credit performance relates to 
expected cash ˙ows associated with loans obtained in business combinations. 

As described in these pages last year, under the accounting guidelines for 

acquired loans, improved credit performance presents itself in our ˝nancial 

statements in a di˛erent manner than for credit extended in the ordinary 

course of business. Loans obtained through acquisition are recorded at fair 
value as of the merger date, based on our then estimates of collectible cash 
viii
˙ows. When credit conditions improve and our estimates of cash ˙ows rise, the 
increase is recognized as interest income over the remaining terms of the loans. 

During 2012, our expectations for the amount of cash payments we will collect 
from acquired loans rose by $200 million. Of that amount, some $45 million 
was recorded as additional interest income in 2012, while the remainder will be 

realized in future periods. ˚ose improved cash ˙ows contributed to the stability 

of our net interest margin. 
˚e economic outlook and the still elevated level of nonaccrual loans, 
combined with the need to establish reserves for new loans, led us to record 
a provision for credit losses of $204 million in 2012. ˚at addition to our 
allowance for credit losses, less the $186 million of net loan charge-o˛s noted 

above, resulted in a net increase of $18 million to the allowance, which ended 

the year at $926 million. ˚e allowance as a percentage of loans outstanding 
was 1.39% at the end of 2012, which was a decline from 1.51% at the end of 2011. 
Additionally, we have generally written down loans obtained in acquisitions by 

recording them at discounts from their stated face value. ˚e portion of those 

discounts that represents loan principal balances that we do not anticipate 

collecting totaled $413 million at December 31, 2012, an amount above and 

beyond our $926 million allowance for credit losses.ˇ
Noninterest income rose to $1.67 billion last year, an increase of 5% 
 from $1.58 billion in 2011. Mortgage banking revenues more than doubled 
 to $349 million from $166 million in 2011. ˚at growth re˙ected robust 

mortgage re˝nancing activity by customers, given near historical low interest 
rates. Trust and investment services revenues re˙ected the contribution 
 resulting from the full-year impact of our acquisition of Wilmington Trust 
in the spring of 2011. ˚at e˛ect contributed to a 42% rise in those revenues 

to $472 million from $332 million in 2011. As explained in detail last year, 

noninterest income in 2011 included a $65 million gain arising from the 
ixconsummation of the Wilmington Trust merger, $73 million of net investment 
gains, and a $55 million litigation recovery.
Noninterest expenses were $2.51 billion in 2012, up slightly from $2.48 
billion in the prior year. Excluding merger-related expenses as well as the 
amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets, noninterest operating 
expenses were $2.44 billion in 2012 and $2.33 billion in 2011. As with noninterest 

revenues, that ˝ve percent increase re˙ects twelve months of Wilmington Trust™s 

results in 2012. As reported last year, the 2011 ˝gures include an impairment 

charge of $79 million on our investment in Bayview Lending Group and a $40 
million contribution to ˚e M&T Charitable Foundation.
2012: ITS MEANING FOR M&T˚ere are any number of ways in which to exemplify M&T™s successful 
performance of the past year. Clearly, the fact that total earnings topped $1 billion 

for the ˝rst time is a major achievement. ˚e combination of earnings strength 

and growth in core capital were two of the factors that allowed us to continue 
to bene˝t, opportunistically, through acquisitions. We anticipate, moreover, 
that our recently announced purchase of Hudson City Bancorp, a traditional 

savings-and-loan headquartered in Paramus, New Jersey, will, when completed, 

be immediately accretive to both M&T™s earnings and capital ratios, while 

expanding our branch network presence, retail business and overall commercial 

banking operations in one of the nation™s most important markets. 
ROA
DS NOT TAKEN
: While we continued to rely on our traditional core 
strengths to progress in 2012, we also bene˝tted, rather unconventionally, from 
a transaction that we did not execute. ˚e fact that we are able to undertake 
acquisitions has not blinded us to the reality that not every opportunity is 

equally rewarding and that every transaction has its own risks requiring a 

cautious approach to pricing. When HSBC (Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking 
xCorporation) decided to exit retail banking in our home town and other parts 
of New York, it was tempting to acquire its branch system and to purchase its 

deposits. In considering such an endeavor, however, we were concerned about 
 the likelihood of mandatory divestitures and the feasibility of a quick 

redeployment of acquired deposits into loans, given our already strong, 

and arguably dominant, presence in the upstate New York markets. More 

importantly, we were worried about customers™ propensity to choose a new 

home amidst such large market disruption. We were less con˝dent about the 

bene˝ts of such an acquisition, and in the end, fell short of the eventual pricing. 
However, some of the very concerns that led to our skittish approach towards 
the transaction have proven bene˝cial in the aˆermath. ˚e market disruption 

caused by the exit of a large competitor, whose branch system was divided 

among four other banks, has resulted in some of the customers migrating to 

M&T, assisted by a well-trained sales force that has covered these markets 
for generations. ˚us, what we had come to regard as a slower-growth, high-
return segment of our franchise has, instead, proved to be one temporarily 

characterized by high growth, as we have acquired customers, made loans and 

received new deposits at a pace unseen in upstate New York for a very long time. 

˚ese markets accounted for 36% of overall commercial loan growth and 44% of 

deposit growth. ˚is contributed markedly to our overall 2011-2012 growth in 
deposits, which at 11.3%, was more than double the industry average of 5.0%.
POST-CRISIS RECO
VERY 
˚e positive results of 2012 represent, however, more than one year™s e˛ort. ˚ey 
can be said, rather, to be the culmination of slow and steady rebuilding, in the 
wake of the ˝nancial crisis that began in 2007. One particularly useful method 

to gauge that progress is to note that 2012 earnings, at $7.54 per share, surpassed 

those of 2006, the last full year prior to the crisis. To be speci˝c, earnings per 

share had not returned to the 2006 level for any of the years intervening. 
xiIt is well worth noting that, although 2012 did see us reach a new 
earnings peak, M&T, in contrast to many of our peers, had not experienced 
any signi˝cant disruption to our business model over the past six years, 
beyond those unforced errors referred to in the 2009 Message to Shareholders. 
Indeed, even as the ˝nancial crisis that became known as the Great Recession 

developed, we never missed, or reduced, our dividend payments. ˚is stability 

gave us the capacity to take advantage of a range of acquisition opportunities 

that a troubled and changing economy has made available. In 2009, we acquired 

the largest independent bank based in Maryland, Provident Bankshares 
Corporation Œ which was under pressure from losses in its investment 
 portfolio Œ giving us a dominant market share in Baltimore and the State of 
Maryland. In 2011, we expanded into Delaware with the acquisition of the 

market share leader, Wilmington Trust, which was struggling with losses in its 

distressed commercial real estate portfolio. ˚e Wilmington Trust acquisition 
broadened and diversi˝ed our revenue stream by expanding our product 
o˛erings in Wealth Management and Trust services, and led to our becoming 

one of the largest trust companies in the United States, raising our ranking 

to 9th among U.S. bank holding companies. Lastly, we will substantially 

strengthen our presence in New Jersey and the greater New York metropolitan 

area with the recently announced Hudson City transaction. Despite all 
these acquisitions, however, we have not strayed too far from home. Aˆer 
completion of the Hudson City acquisition, we will have nearly doubled in size 

while merely increasing the radius of our ﬁfootprintﬂ by less than 30 miles Œ 

suggesting a deeper focus in the communities we know and serve. 
Our earnings strength and stability over the past six years was also 
instrumental in completing a smooth exit from the U.S. Department of the 

Treasury™s TARP program this past August. M&T entered the program in 

December 2008 by issuing $600 million of preferred stock and a warrant to 
xiipurchase 1.2 million shares of M&T™s common stock. ˚rough Provident and 
Wilmington Trust, we assumed responsibility for an additional $481.5 million 

of TARP preferred stock and associated warrants. ˚is past summer, we worked 
with the Treasury Department and the banking regulators to shape a plan to 
complete M&T™s ˝nal exit from the program, assisting the U.S. Treasury in 

full recovery of its investment. Overall, Treasury was repaid $1.24 billion in 

principal and dividends, which included Treasury™s investment in now merged 

institutions that had weakened, putting their ability to repay in doubt. Treasury 

earned an additional $32 million in net proceeds from the auction of 1.2 million 
of M&T warrants last December. ˚e latter was made possible by the 32% 
appreciation in M&T™s share price over the four year period that Treasury held 

the warrants. Indeed, this repayment must be seen as a satisfying culmination of 

our involvement with the TARP for all concerned Œ M&T, our shareholders, the 

U.S. government, and taxpayers.
In summary, while our earnings in 2012 look more like 2006, we emerged 
from the crisis a much stronger, deeper and reinvigorated franchise than we 

were in 2006. None of these accomplishments would be possible, however, 

absent the foundation of a workforce which is deep, capable and committed. 
MANY MARKETS, ONE CULTUREAs this record of performance makes clear, the growth of M&T over the past 
decade has been substantial. In 2003, prior to the acquisition of All˝rst, 
 there were 9,197 employees and 450 branches. Following the completion of the 

integration of Hudson City, we anticipate having over 16,500 employees and 864 

branches. Over the course of the past two decades, M&T has expanded its reach 
from a single state to seven and become one of the top 20 U.S.-based commercial 
bank holding companies. Such growth, as gratifying and as well executed as it 

has been, should not be mistaken to have occurred without challenge. We are 
xiiiunder no illusion that acquisition leads, inevitably, to successful integration. 
Rather, we approach with the utmost seriousness the task of infusing the M&T 

culture into those newly merged institutions Œ with the understanding that 
doing so is central to our prospects for success. 
THE M&T CULTUREWhen President Clinton was ˝rst nominated to be President, in his acceptance 
speech he said Al Gore and he came from towns where people knew when they 
were born and cared when they died. Many of M&T™s communities are such 
places and as such they are more representative of the values of Middle America 

than of Wall Street or Hollywood. ˚ese values represent the inner strength 

of the United States in which people overwhelmingly desire to see their towns, 

villages, neighbors and institutions do well, and are concerned when they do 
badly. ˚ere is oˆen a strong bond among the religious institutions, the local 
businesses, the schools, the libraries, the universities, the hospitals, and the 

social organizations, as well as the people who work in local government. It has 

always been important that bankers play a leading role in such communities 

as they tend to be part of the glue that bonds them together with a focus on 

improving the quality of life.
At M&T it is easy for us to be that binding agent given the nature of the 
Middle American cities in which we operate. We have a more level playing ˝eld 

for colleagues to transfer from town to town, and to share in and enhance the 

M&T culture of community banking while, at the same time, broadening their 

professionalism as bankers.
Some History: In 1983, M&T was not among the nation™s largest banks. 
 It wasn™t even the largest bank in Bu˛alo. In fact, it was fourth by deposit 
 share and it was not in the best of shape. Too much of its lending took place 

outside its home market. It lacked top talent at the senior management level. 
xiv
But it did have some signi˝cant strengths Œ chief among them a committed, 
local work force, long-tenured at the Bank and loyal to it and the community 

itself. Bu˛alonians are honest, friendly, well-educated and highly skilled 
with a strong work ethic and a no-nonsense attitude. One of our largest 
shareholders once noted: ﬁSmart people are pretty easy to ˝nd, but you can™t 

train friendliness. In Bu˛alo, you have a combination of smart and friendly.ﬂ 

(One might say the same about other cities that M&T ultimately expanded 

into: Rochester, Syracuse, Wilkes-Barre, Harrisburg or Baltimore.) It is Middle 

American in culture and character, just as so many of our markets today, and 
included many members of the same families, some of who have worked for 
 the Bank for generations. Even today, in M&T™s western New York market, more 
than 847 of our employees have a family member Œ whether husband, wife, son 

or daughter Œ also building a career at M&T. We see this as a vote of con˝dence 

in our corporate culture Œ as well as one of the ways and means that culture is 
sustained. ˚eir commitment and local knowledge would become a building 
block of the approach we call community banking Œ an approach based on 

familiarity with their home markets and long-term relationships between and 

among loan o˜cers, branch managers and their customers. It was clear in those 

early days, however, that M&T needed more to make that approach pay o˛. It 

needed talented senior managers, from wherever we could ˝nd them. It needed a 
management built for the long-term Œ who saw themselves not just as employees 
but as owners. And it needed to identify talent already in its ranks Œ and give 

them the opportunity to rise and shine. 
˚ose challenging years were, in other words, the crucible in which 
M&T™s culture was forged. ˚e strategies of that era have become formal parts 

of who we are today. Its building blocks will no doubt be familiar to regular 
readers of this Message. ˚ey include prudent lending based on a detailed 
understanding of markets, straightforward products that are easily understood 
xvby our customers, a sense on the part of our employees of ownership and 
accountability, and an operating belief that well-trained employees with long 

tenure are our most valuable assets. To these guide stars, one might add an 
ever-present awareness that the only good loan is one that gets paid back. We 
have not approached the challenge of maintaining and, indeed, disseminating 

our culture either super˝cially or haphazardly. Rather, we have approached the 

task both resolutely and systematically. 
 ˚e loyalty and commitment we see from M&T employees can only be 
maintained through reciprocity. It means nurturing talent, rewarding initiative 
and promoting from within. So it is that we initiated processes to address those 
gaps in our then current and future management ranks. Although it began almost 

two decades earlier, in 2005, we codi˝ed what we call a Talent Review process, 

in which formal and informal assessments are gathered regarding employees. 
Every year, M&T™s Executive Management Committee convenes a series of 
meetings to discuss, in depth, the strengths and opportunities for improvement 

and advancement of our 150 top managers. It is a venue for honest and open 

discussion about the needs of each division and region. ˚rough this review of 

the Bank™s leadership and re˙ection about the Bank itself, talent emerges. We 

fast track that talent and give them outsized responsibilities in order to stretch 
their horizons and broaden their experience. ˚is is our means of expanding 
capacity and has allowed us to be prepared for growth through organic means or 

acquisitions. Over the years, this top-level process has been embraced throughout 

the organization. So much so that in 2012, some 200 meetings were held across 

the Bank to discuss growth and advancement opportunities for employees that 

represent our current or future leadership. 
˚is annual process has initiated meaningful change over the years, 
as M&T has moved beyond its home market. At least 413 members of our 

leadership have worked in more than one of our community banking regions 
xvi
and 141 have worked in at least three Œ many starting in Bu˛alo and moving on 
to other parts of our expanding corporate ﬁfootprint,ﬂ thus helping to preserve 

and spread our core corporate culture. So it is that a one-time Bu˛alo branch 
manager could become the President of M&T. Or that a young woman hired as 
a trainee in Bu˛alo in 1985, has gone on to hold positions in Rochester, Ithaca, 

and Baltimore Œ before taking on her current role as overall head of M&T™s 

small business division.
 We remain committed as well to the systematic recruitment and 
hiring of new talent anywhere we ˝nd it. M&T™s approach to the renewal of its 
corporate human capital relies on actively recruiting new college and university 
graduates for our training programs Œ which target new MBAs from top-

tier business schools and new college graduates from select institutions, not 

limited to those in the areas where we do business. Over the past ˝ve years, 
recruits came from such universities as Harvard, Yale, Princeton and Duke, 
and equally important, also from schools throughout our footprint such as the 

State University of New York at Bu˛alo, the University of Maryland, Gettysburg 

College, University of Scranton, Frostburg State University, and the University of 

Delaware. Since their establishment in the mid-1980s, M&T has never reduced 

the size of these programs, maintaining a consistent policy of hiring trainees 
every year, regardless of the state of the economy or the banking sector.
˚e development of this talent pipeline has frequently led to long-term 
employee commitment: 396 of the trainees hired into these programs over the 
past 10 years continue to advance their career at M&T. It™s worth noting that 
these programs have been the launching pads for the careers of many in our 
senior management Œ 14 have progressed to senior vice president or higher, 

including three members of our current Executive Management Committee.
Central to the long tenure, loyalty and employee commitment is 
ownership. Avoiding banking fads and the lure of short-term spikes in earnings 
xvii
requires long-term commitment. At M&T, that commitment is sustained, in 
part, by its ownership structure. Today some 18.5% of the company™s stock is 

owned or controlled by M&T™s management, directors and employees. Fully 
2,638 or 93% of the employees with corporate titles at the level of vice-president 
and above own M&T stock. If they act like owners, it™s because they are. 
It is our belief that the ties to the communities we serve must be 
 driven by much more than commercial endeavors. We understand community 

banking, further, to mean support Œ both ˝nancially and through the e˛orts 

of employee volunteers Œ for important community activities. We encourage, 

recognize and reward such e˛orts. It should be no surprise, then, that M&T 

employees have played a signi˝cant role in hundreds of community initiatives, 

from the Ride for Roswell which raises funds for the Roswell Park Cancer 
Institute in Bu˛alo, to Baltimore™s Dragon Boat Races which serve to bene˝t 
that city™s Catholic Charities, to Eastern Pennsylvania™s ˚e Elegance at Hershey 

which supports juvenile diabetes research, to 745 employees serving on the 

boards of not-for-pro˝t organizations in our communities. We™ve encouraged 

the e˛orts of employees, self-organized into seventeen ﬁresource groupsﬂ Œ 
 with the goal of advancing business development, employee development, 

recruiting enhancement, community outreach, cultural awareness and 

employee engagement. ˚e M&T Charitable Foundation complements these 

e˛orts with its own support and in 2012 alone it identi˝ed 3,149 community 

organizations to receive grants totaling $20.1 million. ˚e Foundation pursues 

no narrow corporate purposes but rather, focuses on a higher goal: making 
 the communities we serve better places to live. 
˚e combination of stability and growth that have characterized 
 M&T has nurtured the commitment of our employees to the company Œ 
 and ours to them. ˚at, in turn, contributes to M&T™s prospects, as well 
 as to the recruitment of the new talent any growing organization needs. 
 xviii
In short, M&T™s ˝nancial success is linked, inextricably, to the story of its 
 corporate culture. In Washington and elsewhere, people may be at each 
 other™s throats and rewarded for brokering no compromise. In the Middle 
American communities we serve, citizens still work together for the 
 common good Œ and want those doing business with them to share that 
 same ethic and play a constructive role. At M&T, that is exactly how we see 
 our role. Succeeding in that task, while growing steadily over the years, 
 has been our challenge.
Ownership, culture and talent development have served as foundation 
 for M&T™s successful long-term record of performance and underpin my 
con˝dence about its future prospects. My thoughts about the overall banking 

industry, however, remain less sanguine.
THE BANKING CLIMATE
M&T™s approach to banking, and the bene˝ts we bring to the communities we 
serve, might be considered a re˙ection of what banking should be: a vehicle for 

protecting savings and prudently directing those savings to provide mortgage 

loans to home-buyers and ˝nancing for commerce and industry. One cannot 

help, however, but be aware that this is not the image Americans currently 
 have of banks. Last year in this space I wrote, ﬁ˚e wide spectrum of the 

culpable has leˆ the U.S. and the world with a problem which, although related 

to the ˝nancial crisis, transcends it and must be confronted: the decimation 
 of public trust in once-respected institutions and their leaders.ﬂ I very much 

wish that I could say that the passage of time has seen a restoration of that 
 trust Œ but I fear it is not so. 
Rather, to judge by the ongoing growth and extent of bank regulation, 
there is less focus and appreciation of banks as providers of potential bene˝ts 

than as sources of potential problems. Despite the fact that traditional banks, 
xixfor the most part, played a limited role in sparking the ˝nancial crisis, they are 
viewed disproportionately through that prism. Indeed, 35 percent of Americans 

polled by Gallup expressed ﬁvery littleﬂ or ﬁnoﬂ con˝dence in U.S. banks Œ one 
of the worst results on record since Gallup began such surveys in 1979. 
Yet as the wages of ˝nancial sins are visited on banking as a whole, the 
image and, crucially, the nature of regulatory oversight Œ and the low level of 

public con˝dence in the industry Œ is principally in˙uenced by questionable 
activities associated with the largest banks. Last year this Message discussed 

the ˝nes, sanctions and legal awards levied against the ﬁBig Sixﬂ bank holding 

companies that represent the U.S. banking oligopoly as a public barometer of 

their wrongdoings. ˚e mercury level is still rising. In 2011, those penalties 

were $13.9 billion. In 2012, they more than doubled to $29.3 billion. ˚us, the 
past two years represent the majority of the cumulative $52 billion in charges, 
from 236 separate actions in eight countries, over the past 11 years. To the 

average citizen, these ˝gures imply that the problem is getting worse Œ and at 

an accelerating pace.
Regaining public con˝dence and reversing that trend will take 
 more Œ much more Œ than better public relations or upliˆing advertising. 
 
In order to regain that con˝dence, banking must begin to take steps towards 
 
its own reform. At the same time, banking is just one leg of the complex 

apparatus that has weakened the public™s trust in our ˝nancial system. 
 
˚us, reversing the tide and regaining positive momentum will require 
demonstrated leadership on the part of many. Here follow some thoughts on 
three areas Œ compensation, accounting clarity and regulatory complexity Œ 

and some ideas about steps that can be taken to restore those qualities of trust, 

clarity and con˝dence which historically made for a ˝nancial system on which 

Americans could rely. 
xxCOMPENSAT
ION
: ˚e level of executive compensation, despite the questionable 
performance of the industry through the Great Recession, remains at astronomical 
levels when compared to the wages of an average American worker. ˚e current 
compensation of those employed in traditional banking amounts to 1.2 times that 
of the average U.S. worker. In comparison, the average compensation at the Big 

Six is three times that benchmark Œ with employees at one of those ˝rms earning 

more than ˝ve times. ˚at institution has 32,400 employees, who on average earn 

$399 thousand. Not to mention the average compensation package of the Big Six 

CEOs that stands at 234 times. For the average American, such salaries appear 
to be simply stratospheric Œ making possible a life-style which seems distant to 
Middle America Œ and naturally raises the question of why leaders at a handful of 

˝rms that have done so much damage to the economy and to the reputation of our 

industry continue to enjoy such loˆy perks. ˚e excessive compensation packages 

at some of these banks, beyond their alleged role in the crisis and ongoing 
scandals, are typically subject to excessive media coverage, which stokes the public 
antipathy even further. 
An argument can be made that large bank CEO pay packages led the 
parade toward higher executive compensation at all large public corporations 

over the last three decades. For a long time and as late as the early 1990s, the 
average compensation for CEOs of the six largest banks was lower than that 
for their top non-banking counterparts. For instance, from 1969 to 1979, those 

executives™ compensation averaged $317 thousand or just 0.7 times that of 

executives at the Fortune top 50 non-bank corporations. Over the next decade, 

by 1989, that measure had increased to 0.9 times their non-bank peers. By 1999, 

however, their average pay had risen to $16.5 million, representing a multiple of 

2.2 times that earned by the nation™s leading non-bank executives. Today their 
remuneration remains in that same stratosphere and is on par with executive 
pay at the 50 largest non-bank corporations. 
xxiLeadership requires sacri˝ce and the time is right for boards and 
executives to end the party of their own volition Œ to make a sacri˝ce, to 
 right-size compensation and make clear to the public what the new limits will 
be. Given the nature of how executive compensation is set, by benchmarking 
across industries, banking perhaps can and should lead the trend downward. 

Our industry cannot ignore the fact that the growing divide between rich 

and poor, so much the subject of our political discourse, poses a threat to our 

democracy and social order Œ not to mention the association of this issue with 

the name of banking itself. 
ACCO
UNT
ING CL
ARI
TY:
 Banks cannot, by themselves, restore con˝dence in 
 the ˝nancial system. Public mistrust of the banking and ˝nancial services 
industries has, rather, many sources including the opaque nature of bank 
balance sheets. Indeed, investors have long discounted the value of banks relative 

to other industries precisely because of that opacity. Fear of hidden risks and 

obligations embedded in bank balance sheets may have reached an all-time high 
during the ˝nancial crisis Œ and it has hardly ebbed since. A bank trading at or 
even below tangible book value suggests a lack of investor con˝dence and/or fear 

of unforeseeable future losses. ˚is crisis of con˝dence clearly saps the strength 

of the economy. ˚e ˝nancial services industry itself is in part to blame, but 

equally complicit is the industry whose very existence is predicated on laying 
the foundation for transparency Œ on making it reasonably easy to read and 
understand a company™s ˝nancial statements. 
˚e double entry bookkeeping system was documented in the ˝ˆeenth 
century by the Father of Accounting, Franciscan Friar and collaborator of 

Leonardo DaVinci, Luca Pacioli. It revolutionized business and economics and 
brought clarity to ˝nancial statements and made easily understandable the 
health of a company. It goes almost without saying that since its emergence 
xxiiin the last quarter of the 19th century, the internationally-respected U.S. 
accounting system has, for the most part, served as a foundation for con˝dence 

in business in more contemporary times. Indeed, until relatively recently, those 
with a basic knowledge of accounting could, with minimal di˜culty, understand 
the elements of balance sheets and income statements. Today, even sophisticated 

investors ˝nd these ˝nancial statements to be cumbersome and complex. 
˚e trend away from accounting clarity re˙ects, to no small degree, 
changes in the ˝nancial services industry itself, including the emergence over 

the past several decades of complex new investment vehicles. However, it can 
be traced, as well, to the advent of the Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(ﬁFASBﬂ), the quasi-public entity established in 1973 with the laudable goal of 

standardizing practices. It also has the authority to issue rules which must be 

followed by certi˝ed public accountants and the companies they audit. FASB, 

understandably and to its credit, has worked to adjust rule-making to keep 

pace with the changes in investment forms. However, it has added unnecessary 
complexity to the ˝nancial statements of institutions whose business model 
is centered around traditional activities of extending credit and taking 

deposits. For instance, the notes to M&T™s 2012 ˝nancial statements contain 

30,586 words, characters and numbers Œ an 8.2 fold increase from 3,740 in 

the 1983 annual report. Over the past ˝ve years, FASB™s team of more than 60 
accountants has spent $164 million to promulgate 94 accounting standards 
updates and positions. Unfortunately, the result has been the creation of a 

system of ˝nancial statements, disclosures, and accounting standards that are 

confusing to investors and no longer serve their originally intended purpose. 
 To cite a few examples:
FASB has displayed a penchant in its accounting and disclosure 
requirements for bank ˝nancial instruments to use fair value Œ that is, the 

amount of consideration that would be exchanged between a willing buyer and 
xxiiia willing seller. M&T, for instance, is obligated to disclose fair value information 
about all ˝nancial instruments including loans and deposits held on its balance 

sheet. ˚ese disclosures span 11 pages of footnotes Œ despite the fact that a vast 
majority of instruments on M&T™s balance sheet are not designated for trading 
or sale and none of the 26 analysts who follow its stock, or for that matter any 
 of its 15,623 shareholders, has ever asked a single question on the topic. 
Once a bank completes an acquisition, its ˝nancial statements contain 
a mix of Œ originated loans that are reported at historical cost accompanied 

by a traditional, transparent and readily understandable allowance for credit 
losses Œ  and acquired loans that are initially recorded at fair value, which is 
based on subjective estimates of future cash ˙ows and opaquely re˙ects credit 

losses. ˚ese two divergent methods of accounting for loans make it di˜cult 

to compare the ˝nancial statements of an institution which has obtained a 
meaningful percentage of its loans through acquisition with one that has 
obtained its loans organically. ˚is has been particularly challenging for 

regulators, rating agencies and investors alike, who evaluate institutions on 
 a comparative basis and in some cases have not updated their methods to 
 re˙ect this accounting.
For originated loans, improving economic conditions have long been 
recognized through the loan loss allowance, but for loans acquired at a discount, 

the improved outlook is awkwardly re˙ected in the loan yield. To add further 

confusion, the accounting treatment is asymmetric. Improved estimates of 

future cash ˙ows are recorded over time through interest income, while lower 
estimates of future cash ˙ows are recorded immediately through provisions for 
loan losses. Again, a divergent approach for similar issues. 
˚e concern regarding bank managements™ ability to use the loan 
loss allowance for earnings manipulation steered the accounting regulators 

to encourage extensive documentation requirements for loan loss reserve 
xxiv
calculations and measurement of incurred losses. ˚at approach, unfortunately, 
contributed to a signi˝cant delay in the recognition of prudent loan loss reserves 

by banks such that, aˆer the crisis hit, banks had to build up their loan loss 
allowances in the worst of times. No bank makes a loan with an expectation that 
the customer will default. But at the same time, we recognize that not all of our 

loans will be repaid. Current accounting practices do not allow for recognition 

of expected losses. In other words, it makes no sense to buy tents and umbrellas 

when the storm has already passed through and done its damage. 
FASB standards, in fact, sometimes seem to allow practices that run 
counter to what common sense would dictate. For instance, when the value of 

a bank™s own debenture declines, the bank may record an equivalent increase 

as income if it so chooses. Indeed, in the third quarter of 2011, 61% of the $22.0 

billion pre-tax income reported by four of the Big Six banks was nothing more 
than an artifact of their own bonds dropping in value. When a company™s debt 
declines in value, it should not result in management reporting gains on debt 

that it is less likely to repay.
˚ese are but a few examples of the loss of accounting clarity. As these 
words are being written, we are encouraged to note that FASB has put forth 

proposals to re-instate the use of an allowance for acquired loans and to adopt 
an expected loss model for establishing the allowance, among other proposed 
changes. While these sound like steps in the right direction, whether or not they 

are will be contained within the details of any new schema that FASB ultimately 

adopts. Based on past performance in this area, however, the accounting 
standard-development process is slow and there exists the potential for years 
 of confusion on the part of investors.
FASB™s mission has been described as Œ to establish and improve standards 
of ˝nancial accounting and reporting for the guidance and education of the 
public, and to improve common understanding of the purpose of information 
xxvin ˝nancial reports. Unfortunately, it has failed in that very mission and 
probably would make Pacioli turn over in his grave. It has, however, brought to 

accounting both complexity and obfuscation, rather than the clarity we need 
to re-establish public trust. ˚e confusion and opaqueness that the accounting 
profession appears to prefer has made it more di˜cult for an intelligent investor 

to understand the balance sheets and income statements of many banks. 
But if complexity and counter-intuitive rules and practices do not serve 
investors or analysts well, they do bene˝t the accounting ˝rms, which act as 

their (well-paid) enforcement agents. Today the accounting industry has become 
an oligopoly of just four major ˝rms, not dissimilar to the three rating agencies 
and the six large banks that represent 89.8% of all trading among the 7,068 FDIC 

insured institutions (including two that represent 51.3% of all trading). ˚e 

two oligopolies, one of mega-banks and the other of the accounting industry, 
are closely intertwined. ˚e Big Four serve as the accountant for every one of 
the 25 largest U.S. bank holding companies. In fact, they are also the auditors 

for all 28 Systemically Important Financial Institutions around the world. 

Indeed, revenues earned by the Big Four ˝rms have doubled since 2003. In 

2012, 32.7% of the revenue at the Big Four was derived from consulting and 

advisory services. Banks have no choice but to retain members of the oligopoly 
to decipher the accounting and regulatory morass generated by the aˆermath 
of the crisis Œ rules which, in many cases, are not even relevant to the business 

models of most ˝nancial institutions Œ but inure to the bene˝t of the Big Four 

accounting ˝rms. 
˚us it is far from unreasonable to conclude that the current chaotic 
 and challenging period for the ˝nancial services industry will continue to 

be one of untold prosperity for the accounting oligopoly. Such prospects for 

extraordinary riches provide ample incentives to go along with the status 
 quo even if it is against the very core of accounting™s purpose. Yet, this is 
 xxvi
a time when the accounting ˝rms and the corporations that retain them should 
seek to bring clarity to shareholders as well as regulators. In some way, major 

accounting ˝rms should strive, impartially, to convene a higher-level discussion 
aimed toward creating a system that better serves investors and the public alike, 
rather than staying silent. More importantly, given the deep interconnectivity 

with the banking industry, accountants may be the best intermediary between 

FASB, investors, regulators and the ˝nancial services industry to broker 

solutions and devise systems that are less complex. 
At present, we have an accounting system that is too complicated to 
understand, confuses more than it resolves, and operates in a manner that has 

been bene˝cial mostly to itself. ˚at system is broken, in need of courageous 

leadership and, perhaps alternative thinking. Complex accounting rules coupled 

with page aˆer page of information overload in ˝nancial statement footnotes is 
not the same thing as full disclosure. It is time for voices from the ranks of the 
Big Four themselves to be raised, to call for simplicity and transparency Œ even 
 if it means that they forego their own fees and retainers. 
REGUL
ATO
RY C
OMP
LEXI
TY:
 Just as accounting had to change in response to 
the emergence of new ˝nancial instruments, so, too, did ˝nancial regulation 
need to change in response to the ˝nancial crisis. But, as with the trends in 

accounting, the direction of new regulation raises concerns. ˚e most e˛ective 

regulation must be based on clarity and simplicity. Put another way, when the 
rules are easy to understand and follow, there™s a greater likelihood they™ll be 
followed. We are, unfortunately, seeing the emergence of unprecedented Œ and 

unhelpful Œ regulatory complexity. 
Much has been written about the 2,319 pages known as Dodd-Frank and 
the burden its rulemakings have imposed on the banking industry Œ sometimes 

with little direct relevance such as SEC disclosure requirements for ﬁcon˙ict 

mineralsﬂ from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or a required study on 
xxvii
the impact of Chinese drywall quality on mortgage foreclosures. Its protracted 
timeframe, coupled with the prospect of constant implementation of new 

rules, has leˆ investors confused and frustrated and has brought ambiguity to 
everything concomitant to the ˝nancial markets. As of the end of 2012, a mere 
136 rules, or just one-third of 398 required rulemakings, had been ˝nalized. 

So far 60% of the past rulemaking deadlines have been missed. At this rate, 

its implementation may still be incomplete at the time of the next Presidential 

election. ˚e fact that rules on topics so central to the mission and health 

of the banking system such as Basel III capital and liquidity have yet to be 
˝nalized creates uncertainty Œ which business and investors fear most. Yet, even 
partially complete, Dodd-Frank has already introduced unprecedented levels 

of compliance mandates. Its rules, proposed rules and notices already in place, 

represent 18,102 pages in the Federal Register.
While regulatory burdens and increasing cost of compliance have long 
been part of this Message, I am not opposed to regulation and compliance 

where it adds to the public good. And, in some cases they are appropriate and 

could be constructive for the industry. ˚ere is no question that capital plan 

and stress-testing submissions to the Federal Reserve have caused M&T to 

re-examine a number of processes and controls across the organization. A new 
Risk Committee, distinct from our current Audit Committee, will improve 
risk governance by focusing solely on it. So, too, will the hiring of a Chief Risk 

O˜cer, who will report to the Risk Committee Œ and to me. 
But while the bene˝ts of new forms of regulation and oversight must 
be acknowledged, I fear they may be outweighed by their increased levels of 

complexity, costs and uncertainty. While each rule or practice is undoubtedly 

designed to resolve a speci˝c issue Œ in aggregate, they oˆen impose an 

unforeseen burden on commercial banks and, thus, on the U.S. economy. 
 ˚e examples are numerous.
xxviii
A natural concern on the part of regulators is to ensure that crises 
do not reoccur. In the process, no bank is entirely trusted and voluminous 
reports must be prepared by bankers and examiners alike. M&T™s recent stress 
testing and capital plan submission encompassed ˝ling 6,199 pages of analysis, 
reports, templates and follow-ups Œ not to mention the regulatory resources 

then required to parse through that documentation. Inspection is welcome, 

and ultimately may lead to a more well run institution, but the history of 

˝nancial crises has shown that excessive reliance on models and formulas can be 

dangerous when not tempered by judgment. Perhaps the same improvement in 
safety and soundness of the ˝nancial system could be achieved through a better 
dialogue between the regulators and the regulated. 
Complex regulation at times works at cross purpose with public policy 
or at least makes it more costly to achieve. I think here of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation™s new assessment methodology, which requires higher 
premiums for well-secured construction projects and less for working capital 

loans, although the former create more jobs. As such, this policy runs counter 
 to the number one priority of government Œ creation of new employment. 
 So too, are we experiencing a two and a half times increase in the number of 

mortgage loan ˝les inspected by a greater number of regulatory agencies who are 
now mandated to assess compliance in this area. Costs have increased with little 
or no change in the outcome. 
˚e onslaught of new regulations has the combined e˛ect of 
 signi˝cantly inhibiting and raising the cost of the services, including lending, 
which the economy so much needs and which banks are being hectored 
 to provide.ˇ Indeed, we might consider this a kind of misguided regulatory 

chemotherapy Œ where the treatment meant to eliminate cancer cells damages 

healthy ones in the process. 
xxix˛e Economist
 in February 2012 put it well: ﬁ˚e really big issue that 
Dodd-Frank raises isn™t about the institutions it creates, how they operate, 
 how much they cost or how they are funded. It is the risk that they and other 
parts of the Dodd-Frank apparatus will smother ˝nancial institutions in so 
much red tape that innovation is sti˙ed and America™s economy su˛ers.ﬂ
ˇOverall, a heavy burden has been placed on the banking industry Œ
 some reasonable, some excessive Œ and the result has been an imposition 

of quantum increases in analyses, reports, systems and models. ˚ese new 

requirements will undoubtedly create unforeseen and unintended consequences 
not only for the banking industry and regulators, but for consumers, businesses 
and communities that were so removed from the source of the crisis we are 

attempting to ˝x. One wishes that those charged with understanding and 

limiting such risk would consider, too, the e˛ect of their individual actions, not 
in isolation, but in the totality of their impact on the economy.ˇ Such changes 
were surely not in the plans of those who draˆed Dodd-Frank, or in the minds 

of those designing its regulations Œ or for that matter of examiners and overseers 

at the many layers of government. Simply put, they are inhibiting, not helping, 

the economic recovery.ˇ As a banker, it has always been my understanding 

that a bank™s core mission is that of extending credit to the ambitious and 
entrepreneurial, those who have good ideas and the drive to implement 
them. ˇBy their nature, such loans entail risk, but they are entered into with an 

overwhelming desire to see the interests of all those represented in the Middle 

American towns, villages and cities throughout the country, both individuals 

and institutions, advance and thrive.ˇˇ
Two decades ago, in 1992, the former Democratic presidential candidate, 
George McGovern, aˆer a small business he owned ˝led for bankruptcy, lamented 

the negative impacts of regulation on local businesses and consumersŒ writing, 
xxxﬁ˚e problem we face as legislators is: Where do we set the bar so that 
 it is not too high to clear?ﬂ It is time for the banking industry, the accountants, 
the regulators and the legislators to work together to strike the right balance. 
Our economy will not grow without it.  
It is, of course, gratifying, to no small extent, that M&T continues to 
navigate treacherous waters well. Ultimately, however, neither we nor any ˝nancial 
institution, let alone one that works in the best interest of the communities, 

businesses and customers it serves, can thrive absent the trust and con˝dence 
 of the public at large. It is in the interests of such a prospect that I have o˛ered 
 the observations in this Message.
˚is past year saw James Beardi and Atwood ﬁWoodyﬂ Collins, both 
Executive Vice Presidents and members of the Executive Management Committee, 

announce their transition into retirement. Jim served in a variety of roles in the 

Commercial, Retail and Operating Divisions of the Bank over his four decades 
of service. Aˆer serving in M&T™s New York City and Hudson Valley Divisions, 
Woody moved to Baltimore in 2003 following M&T™s acquisition of All˝rst and 

was instrumental in establishing and growing M&T™s presence in the Mid-Atlantic 

market. He will continue in an advisory role with our Wilmington Trust Wealth 

Advisory Services business. I greatly appreciate their respective contributions 
 to our success and wish them both well.
Robert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive O˜cer
February 22, 2013
xxxiOFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Michael P. Pinto
 Vice Chairman
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President 
Robert J. Bojdak
 Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Credit O˜cer
Stephen J. Braunscheidel
 Executive Vice President
Atwood Collins III
 Executive Vice President
William J. Farrell II
 Executive Vice President
Richard S. Gold
 Executive Vice President
Brian E. Hickey
 Executive Vice President
René F. Jones
 Executive Vice President 
 
and Chief Financial O˜cer
Darren J. King
 Executive Vice President
Kevin J. Pearson
 Executive Vice President 
Michele D. Trolli
 Executive Vice President and 
 
Chief Information O˜cer
Donald K. Truslow
 Executive Vice President
 and Chief Risk O˜cer
D. Scott N. Warman
 Executive Vice President
 and Treasurer
John L. D™Angelo
 Senior Vice President 
 
and General Auditor
Drew J. P˝rrman
 Senior Vice President 
 
and General Counsel
Michael R. Spychala
 Senior Vice President 
 
and Controller
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira
 Vice Chairman
 Private Investor
Michael P. Pinto
 Vice Chairman
Brent D. Baird
 Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady
 Executive Chairman
 
Moog Inc.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
 Former Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President
Gary N. Geisel
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Provident Bankshares Corporation
John D. Hawke, Jr.
 Partner
 Arnold & Porter LLP
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
 President
 Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the 
 
Executive Committee
 
Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich
 Vice Chairman
 Rich Products Corporation 
 
and President 
 
Rich Entertainment Group
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington
 President
 H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
M&T BANK CORPORAT
IONOfficers and DirectorsxxxiiM&T BANK Officers and DirectorsOFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Michael P. Pinto
 Vice Chairman and 
 Chairman and Chief Executive 

O˜cer 
 Œ Mid-Atlantic Division
Mark J. Czarnecki
 
President
Executive Vice Presidents
Robert J. Bojdak
 Stephen J. Braunscheidel
 
Atwood Collins III
 
John F. Cook
 
William J. Farrell II 
 
Richard S. Gold
 Mark A. Graham
 Brian E. Hickey
 
René F. Jones
 
Darren J. King
 
Kevin J. Pearson
 
Michele D. Trolli 
 
Donald K. Truslow
 
D. Scott N. Warman
Senior Vice Presidents
Je˛rey L. Barbeau
 John M. Beeson, Jr.
 
Keith M. Belanger
 
Peter M. Black
 
Daniel M. Boscarino
 
Ira A. Brown
 
Robert H. Brown
 
Daniel J. Burns
 
Noel Carroll
 David K. Chamberlain
 August J. Chiasera
 Janet M. Coletti
 
Jerome W. Collier
 
Cynthia L. Corliss
 
R. Joe Crosswhite
 
John L. D™Angelo
 
Scott E. Dagenais
 
Carol A. Dalton
 
Ayan DasGupta
 
Shelley C. Drake
 
Michael A. Drury
 
Gary D. Dudish
 
Donald I. Dussing, Jr.
 Peter J. Eliopoulos
 
Ralph W. Emerson, Jr.
 
Je˛rey A. Evershed
 
Tari L. Flannery
 
James M. Frank
 
R. S. Fraundorf
 
Robert S. Graber
 
Sam Guerrieri, Jr.
 
Robert V. Harra, Jr.
 
Roger W. Hobby
 
Carl W. Jordan
 Michael T. Keegan
 
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 
Michele V. Langdon
 
Je˛rey A. Long
 
Robert G. Loughrey
 Alfred F. Luhr III
 Rex P. Macey
 Christopher R. Madel
 Paula Mandell
 Gino A. Martocci
 
Louis P. Mathews, Jr.
 Richard J. McCarthy
 Donna McClure
 
Mark J. Mendel
 
Christopher J. Minnich
 
Paul D. Moore
 
Michael S. Murchie
 
Allen J. Naples
 
Drew J. P˝rrman
 
Paul T. Pitman
 Michael J. Quinlivan
 
Christopher D. Randall
 
Daniel J. Ripienski
 
John P. Rumschik
 
Charles Russella, Jr.
 
Mahesh Sankaran
 
Jack D. Sawyer
 
Jean-Christophe Schroeder
 Susan F. Sciarra
 Douglas A. Sheline
 
Michael J. Shryne
 
Glenn R. Small
 
Philip M. Smith
 
Matthew M. Speare
 
Michael R. Spychala
 
Kemp C. Stickney
 
Susan M. Stinson
 
Michael J. Todaro
 
Christopher E. Tolomeo
 
Patrick M. Trainor
 Michael P. Wallace
 Linda J. Weinberg
 
Je˛rey A. Wellington
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira
 Vice Chairman
 Private Investor
Michael P. Pinto
 Vice Chairman and 
 
Chairman and Chief Executive 

O˜cer Œ Mid-Atlantic Division
Brent D. Baird
 Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and 
 Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady
 Executive Chairman
 
Moog Inc.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
 Former Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President
Gary N. Geisel
 Former Chairman of the Board 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Provident Bankshares Corporation
John D. Hawke, Jr.
 Partner
 Arnold & Porter LLP
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
 President 
 Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the 
 
Executive Committee
 
Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich
 
Vice Chairman 
 
Rich Products Corporation 
 
and President
 Rich Entertainment Group 
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and 
 Chief Executive O˜cer
 M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington
 President
 H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
xxxiiiREGIONAL PRESIDENTSJe˛rey A. Wellington
 Bu˚alo
Allen J. Naples
 Central New York
Michael S. Murchie
 Central Pennsylvania
Robert H. Newton, Jr.
 Central Virginia
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 Delaware
August J. Chiasera
 Greater Baltimore 
 
and Chesapeake
Peter M. Black
Greater Washington 
 and Northern Virginia
Michael T. Keegan
Hudson Valley North 
 and Albany
Peter G. D™Arcy
 New York City 
Philip H. Johnson
 Northern Pennsylvania 
Ira A. Brown
 Philadelphia 
Daniel J. Burns
 Rochester
Peter G. Newman
 Southern New York
R. Joe Crosswhite
 Southern Pennsylvania
 Paula Mandell 
Tarrytown
DIRECTORS ADVISORY
 CO
UNCILSN˜˚ Y˛˝˙ Sˆˇˆ˜
Central New York Division
Aminy I. Audi
James V. Breuer
Carl V. Byrne
 Mara Charlamb
 Richard W. Cook

Richard R. Gri˜th
Robert H. Linn
J. Kemper Matt

Nicholas O. Matt
Robert U. Roberts
John A. Zawadzki
Richard J. Zick
Hudson Valley Division
Elizabeth P. Allen
Kevin M. Bette
Nancy E. Carey Cassidy
Edward vK. Cunningham, Jr.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
Michael H. Graham

Christopher Madden
William Murphy
˚omas D. O™Connor, Jr.

Lewis J. Ruge
Albert K. Smiley
Archibald A. Smith III
Charles C. Tallardy III

Peter Van Kleeck
Alan Yassky
Jamestown Division
Sebastian A. Baggiano
John R. Churchill
 Steven A. Godfrey
Joseph C. Johnson
Stan Lundine

Kim Peterson
Allen Short
 
Michael J. Wellman
New York City/Long Island 
Division
Earle S. Altman
Jay I. Anderson

Brent D. Baird
Louis Brause
Patrick J. Callan
Lloyd M. Goldman
Peter Hauspurg

Gary Jacob
 Maidad Rabina
 Don M. Randel
Michael D. Sullivan
Alair A. Townsend
Rochester Division
William A. Buckingham
 R. Carlos Carballada
Timothy D. Fournier
 Jocelyn Goldberg-Schaible
 Laurence Kessler

Anne M. Kress
Joseph M. Lobozzo II
James H. Norman
 
Mark S. Peterson
Carolyn A. Portanova
John K. Purcell

Victor E. Salerno
Derace L. Scha˛er
Albert J. Simone

Amy L. Tait
Linda Cornell Weinstein
Southern New York Division
George Akel, Jr.
 Daniel Babcock
Lee P. Bearsch
Richard J. Cole
 
Albert Nocciolino
Lawrence J. Schorr
 Robert R. Sprole
 
Terry R. Wood
Pˇ/
 Mˇ˝/ Vˇ /
 Wˆ Vˇ
Baltimore-Washington 
 Division
˚omas S. Bozzuto
 Daniel J. Canzoniero
 
Robert A. Chrencik
 Scott E. Dorsey
 Kevin R. Dunbar
 Gary N. Geisel
 John F. Jaeger
 Warner P. Mason
 
˚omas R. Mullen
 John H. Phelps
 Marc B. Terrill
Central 
 Pennsylvania Division
Christopher M. Cicconi
Mark X. DiSanto
 Rolen E. Ferris

Scott A. Heintzelman
Martin G. Lane, Jr.

Ronald M. Leitzel
Geo˛rey N. Miller
 
Craig Nitterhouse
 Ivo V. Otto III 
 William F. Rothman

Lynn C. Rotz 
 
Herbert E. Sandifer
John D. Sheridan
Frank R. Sourbeer
 Daniel K. Sunderland
 Sondra Wolfe Elias
Central Virginia Division
Franco Ambrogi
 Toni R. Ardabell
 Otis L. Brown
 
Robert J. Clark
 Linda Clevenger
 Daniel Loˆus
 
Bart H. Mitchell
 Robert Wayne Ohly, Jr.
 Gary W. Parker
 J. Lynn Parsons
 Michael Patrick

Charles W. Payne
 Brian R. Pitney
 Frank L. Robinson
Robert S. Seal
 Katheryn E. Surface Burks
 Debbie L. Sydow
Chesapeake Upper 
 Shore Division
Richard Bernstein
Hugh E. Grunden

William W. McAllister, Jr.
Lee McMahan
Chesapeake Lower 
 Shore Division
Michael G. Abercrombie, Jr.
John H. Harrison
John M. McClellan

James F. Morris
John M. Stern
Eastern 
 Pennsylvania Division
A. Joseph Antanavage
Debra C. Blaschak

Paul J. Datte
Richard E. Fehr
Steven I. Field

Roy A. Heim
Donald E. Jacobs
Joseph H. Jones, Jr.
David C. Laudeman
Eric M. Mika
Stephen M. Moyer

Robert P. Powell
Gerald A. Ravitz
Larry A. Wittig
Northeast 
 Mid-Atlantic Division
Richard Alter
Clarence C. Boyle, Jr.
Nicole A. Funk

John N. Kunkel
James Lambdin

˚omas C. Mottley
Paul T. Muddiman

John D. Pursell, Jr.
John ˚omas Sadowski, Jr.
Kimberly L. Wagner
Craig A. Ward
Northeastern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Richard S. Bishop
Christopher L. Borton

Maureen M. Bu˛alino
Stephen N. Clemente
Robert Gill
˚omas F. Torbik
Murray U˘erg
Northern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Sherwin O. Albert, Jr.
Je˛rey A. Cerminaro
Cli˛ord R. Coldren
James E. Douthat

Charlene A. Friedman
Steven P. Johnson
Kenneth R. Levitzky
Robert E. More
John D. Rinehart

J. David Smith
Donald E. Stringfellow
Paul M. Walison
Philadelphia Division
Steven A. Berger
Ruth S. Gehring
Robert N. Reeves, Jr.
Robert W. Sorrell

Steven L. Sugarman
Christina Wagoner
Western 
 Pennsylvania Division
Jodi L. Cessna
Paul I. Detweiler III

Philip E. Devorris
Michael A. Fiore
Joseph A. Grappone

Daniel R. Lawruk
Gerald E. Murray
Robert F. Pennington

Joseph S. Sheetz
William T. Ward
J. Douglas Wolf 
M&T BANK Regional Management and Directors Advisory Councils
xxxiv
SEC
 FORM 10-K
UNITEDSTATESSECURITIESANDEXCHANGECOMMISSION
Washington,D.C.20549
Form10-K
ÍANNUALREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
ForthefiscalyearendedDecember31,2012
or‘TRANSITIONREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
Commissionfilenumber1-9861
M&TBANKCORPORATION
(Exactnameofregistrantasspecifiedinitscharter)
NewYork16-0968385
(Stateofincorporation)(I.R.S.EmployerIdentificationNo.)
OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203
(Addressofprincipalexecutiveoffices)(ZipCode)
Registrant™stelephonenumber,includingareacode:
716-842-5445SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(b)oftheAct:
TitleofEachClass
NameofEachExchangeonWhichRegistered
CommonStock,$.50parvalueNewYorkStockExchange
5%CumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
NewYorkStockExchange
5%CumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesC,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
NewYorkStockExchange
WarrantstopurchasesharesofCommonStock
(expiringDecember23,2018)
NewYorkStockExchange
SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(g)oftheAct:
8.234%CapitalSecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustI
(andtheGuaranteeofM&TBankCorporationwithrespectthereto)
(Titleofclass)
8.234%JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesof
M&TBankCorporation
(Titleofclass)
Indicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisawell-knownseasonedissuer,asdefinedinRule405oftheSecurities
Act.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisnotrequiredtofilereportspursuanttoSection13orSection15(d)ofthe
Act.Yes
‘NoÍIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrant(1)hasfiledallreportsrequiredtobefiledbySection13or15(d)oftheSecurities
ExchangeActof1934duringthepreceding12months,and(2)hasbeensubjecttosuchfilingrequirementsforthepast

90days.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistranthassubmittedelectronicallyandpostedonitscorporateWebsite,ifany,every
InteractiveDataFilerequiredtobesubmittedandpostedpursuanttoRule405ofRegulationS-Tduringthepreceding12months(or

forsuchshorterperiodthattheregistrantwasrequiredtosubmitandpostsuchfiles).Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkifdisclosureofdelinquentfilerspursuanttoItem405ofRegulationS-Kisnotcontainedherein,andwill
notbecontained,tothebestofregistrant™sknowledge,indefinitiveproxyorinformationstatementsincorporatedbyreferencein

PartIIIofthisForm10-KoranyamendmenttothisForm10-K.
‘Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisalargeacceleratedfiler,anacceleratedfiler,anon-acceleratedfiler,orasmaller
reportingcompany.Seethedefinitionsofﬁlargeacceleratedfiler,ﬂﬁacceleratedfiler,ﬂandﬁsmallerreportingcompanyﬂinRule12b-2

oftheExchangeAct.(Checkone):
Largeacceleratedfiler
ÍAcceleratedfiler
‘Non-acceleratedfiler
‘Smallerreportingcompany
‘(Donotcheckifasmallerreportingcompany)

Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisashellcompany(asdefinedinRule12b-2oftheAct).Yes
‘NoÍAggregatemarketvalueoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,heldbynon-affiliatesoftheregistrant,computedbyreferenceto
theclosingpriceasofthecloseofbusinessonJune30,2012:$9,403,393,623.
NumberofsharesoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,outstandingasofthecloseofbusinessonFebruary20,2013:
128,727,372shares.
DocumentsIncorporatedByReference:
(1)PortionsoftheProxyStatementforthe2013AnnualMeet
ingofShareholdersofM&TBankCorporationinPartsIIandIII.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2012
CROSS-REFERENCESHEET
Form10-K
PagePARTI
Item1.Business
.........................................................4
StatisticaldisclosurepursuanttoGuide3
I.Distributionofassets,liabilities,andshareholders™equity;interestrates
andinterestdifferential
A.Averagebalancesheets
.......................................48
B.Interestincome/expenseandresultingyieldorrateonaverage
interest-earningassets(includingnon-accrualloans)andinterest-

bearingliabilities
............................................48
C.Rate/volumevariances
.......................................25
II.Investmentportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
...........................................23
B.Maturityscheduleandweightedaverageyield
....................82
C.Aggregatecarryingvalueofsecuritiesthatexceedtenpercentof
shareholders™equity
.........................................116
III.Loanportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
...........................................23,119
B.Maturitiesandsensitivitiestochangesininterestrates
.............80
C.Riskelements
Nonaccrual,pastdueandrenegotiatedloans
.....................62,121-122
Actualandproformainterestoncertainloans.
...................122,128
Nonaccrualpolicy
...........................................109-110Loanconcentrations
.........................................71
IV.Summaryofloanlossexperience
A.Analysisoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.........................60,
125-130Factorsinfluencingmanagement™sjudgmentconcerningtheadequacy
oftheallowanceandprovision
................................59-71,110,125-130
B.Allocationoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.......................70,
125,130
V.Deposits
A.Averagebalancesandrates
....................................48
B.Maturityscheduleofdomestictimedepositswithbalancesof
$100,000ormore
...........................................83
VI.Returnonequityandassets
......................................25,43,86-87,90-91
VII.Short-termborrowings
..........................................135
Item1A.RiskFactors
...................................................25-33
Item1B.UnresolvedStaffComments.
.....................................33
Item2.Properties
.....................................................33-34
Item3.LegalProceedings
...............................................34
Item4.MineSafetyDisclosures
.........................................34
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
................................34-36
PARTII
Item5.MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedShareholderMattersand
IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
...............................36-39
A.Principalmarket
............................................36
Marketprices
..............................................98
B.Approximatenumberofholdersatyear-end
.....................23
2Form10-K
PageC.Frequencyandamountofdividendsdeclared
....................24-25,98,107
D.Restrictionsondividends
.....................................9-10
E.Securitiesauthorizedforissuanceunderequitycompensationplans..36-37

F.Performancegraph
..........................................38
G.Repurchasesofcommonstock
................................38-39
Item6.SelectedFinancialData
..........................................39
A.Selectedconsolidatedyear-endbalances
........................23
B.Consolidatedearnings,etc
....................................24
Item7.Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResults
ofOperations
..................................................39-99
Item7A.QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk
............100
Item8.FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData
.......................100
A.ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
..............101
B.ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
.........102
C.ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2012and2011
........103
D.ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,
2012,2011and2010
.........................................104
E.ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeŠYearsended
December31,2012,2011and2010
.............................105
F.ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,
2012,2011and2010
........................................106
G.ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYears
endedDecember31,2012,2011and2010.
......................107
H.NotestoFinancialStatements
.................................108
-176I.QuarterlyTrends
...........................................98
Item9.ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingand
FinancialDisclosure
.............................................177
Item9A.ControlsandProcedures
.........................................177
A.Conclusionsofprincipalexecutiveofficerandprincipalfinancial
officerregardingdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures
..............177
B.Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancial
reporting..................................................177
C.Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm..
........177
D.Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
...............177
Item9B.OtherInformation
..............................................177
PARTIII
Item10.Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance
...............177
Item11.ExecutiveCompensation
........................................177
Item12.SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementand
RelatedStockholderMatters
......................................178
Item13.CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirector
Independence..................................................178
Item14.PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices
.............................178
PARTIV
Item15.ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules
.........................178
SIGNATURES...........................................................179-180EXHIBITINDEX
........................................................181-1833PARTI
Item1.
Business.M&TBankCorporation(ﬁRegistrantﬂorﬁM&Tﬂ)isaNewYorkbusinesscorporationwhichisregisteredas
afinancialholdingcompanyundertheBankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended(ﬁBHCAﬂ)andas

abankholdingcompany(ﬁBHCﬂ)underArticleIII-AoftheNewYorkBankingLaw(ﬁBankingLawﬂ).The

principalexecutiveofficesoftheRegistrantarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.The

RegistrantwasincorporatedinNovember1969.TheRegistrantanditsdirectandindirectsubsidiariesare

collectivelyreferredtohereinastheﬁCompany.ﬂAsofDecember31,2012theCompanyhadconsolidated

totalassetsof$83.0billion,depositsof$65.6billionandshareholders™equityof$10.2billion.TheCompany

had13,640full-timeand1,303part-timeemployeesasofDecember31,2012.
AtDecember31,2012,theRegistranthadtwowhollyownedbanksubsidiaries:M&TBankand
WilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,N.A.ﬂ).Thebankscollectivelyofferawide

rangeofretailandcommercialbanking,trustandwealthmanagement,andinvestmentservicestotheir

customers.AtDecember31,2012,M&TBankrepresented99%ofconsolidatedassetsoftheCompany.
TheCompanyfromtimetotimeconsidersacquiringbanks,thriftinstitutions,branchofficesof
banksorthriftinstitutions,orotherbusinesseswithinmarketscurrentlyservedbytheCompanyorinother

locationsthatwouldcomplementtheCompany™sbusinessoritsgeographicreach.TheCompanyhas

pursuedacquisitionopportunitiesinthepast,continuestoreviewdifferentopportunities,includingthe

possibilityofmajoracquisitions,andintendstocontinuethispractice.
SubsidiariesM&TBankisabankingcorporationthatisincorporatedunderthelawsoftheStateofNewYork.M&T

BankisamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemandtheFederalHomeLoanBankSystem,anditsdeposits

areinsuredbytheFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)uptoapplicablelimits.M&Tacquired

alloftheissuedandoutstandingsharesofthecapitalstockofM&TBankinDecember1969.Thestockof

M&TBankrepresentsamajorassetofM&T.M&TBankoperatesunderachartergrantedbytheStateof

NewYorkin1892,andthecontinuityofitsbankingbusinessistracedtotheorganizationofthe

ManufacturersandTradersBankin1856.TheprincipalexecutiveofficesofM&TBankarelocatedatOne

M&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.AsofDecember31,2012,M&TBankhad725domesticbanking

officeslocatedthroughoutNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,NewJersey,Virginia,West

Virginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,Canada,andan

officeinGeorgeTown,CaymanIslands.AsofDecember31,2012,M&TBankhadconsolidatedtotalassets

of$82.1billion,depositsof$66.4billionandshareholder™sequityof$10.3billion.Thedepositliabilitiesof

M&TBankareinsuredbytheFDICthroughitsDepositInsuranceFund(ﬁDIFﬂ).Asacommercialbank,

M&TBankoffersabroadrangeoffinancialservicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professional

clients,governmentalentitiesandfinancialinstitutionslocatedinitsmarkets.Lendingislargelyfocusedon

consumersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,DelawareandWashington,D.C.,

andonsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansareoriginatedthrough

lendingofficesinotherstatesandinOntario,Canada.Inaddition,theCompanyconductslendingactivities

invariousstatesthroughothersubsidiaries.TrustandotherfiduciaryservicesareofferedbyM&TBankand

throughitswhollyownedsubsidiary,WilmingtonTrustCompany.M&TBankandcertainofitssubsidiaries

alsooffercommercialmortgageloanssecuredbyincomeproducingpropertiesorpropertiesusedby

borrowersinatradeorbusiness.Additionalfinancialservicesareprovidedthroughotheroperating

subsidiariesoftheCompany.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,anationalbankingassociationandamemberoftheFederalReserveSystem
andtheFDIC,commencedoperationsonOctober2,1995.ThedepositliabilitiesofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

areinsuredbytheFDICthroughtheDIF.ThemainofficeofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.islocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware,19890.AsecondofficeislocatedinOakfield,NewYork.

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.offersvarioustrustandwealthmanagementservices.Historically,Wilmington

Trust,N.A.offeredselecteddepositandloanproductsonanationwidebasis,throughdirectmail,telephone

marketingtechniquesandtheInternet.AsofDecember31,2012,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadtotalassetsof

$1.8billion,depositsof$1.2billionandshareholder™sequityof$405million.
WilmingtonTrustCompany,awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasa
DelawarebankandtrustcompanyinMarch1901andamendeditscharterinJuly2011tobecomea

nondepositorytrustcompany.WilmingtonTrustCompanyprovidesavarietyofDelawarebasedtrust,
4fiduciaryandcustodialservicestoitsclients.AsofDecember31,2012,WilmingtonTrustCompanyhad
totalassetsof$1.4billionandshareholder™sequityof$543million.RevenuesofWilmingtonTrust

Companywere$122millionin2012.TheheadquartersofWilmingtonTrustCompanyarelocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware19890.
M&TLifeInsuranceCompany(ﬁM&TLifeInsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,was
incorporatedasanArizonabusinesscorporationinJanuary1984.M&TLifeInsuranceisacreditreinsurer

whichreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbytheCompany™sconsumerloan

customers.AsofDecember31,2012,M&TLifeInsurancehadassetsof$17millionandshareholder™sequity

of$16million.M&TLifeInsurancerecordedrevenuesof$1millionduring2012.HeadquartersofM&TLife

Insurancearelocatedat101NorthFirstAvenue,Phoenix,Arizona85003.
M&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.(ﬁM&TInsuranceAgencyﬂ),awhollyownedinsuranceagency
subsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasaNewYorkcorporationinMarch1955.M&TInsurance

Agencyprovidesinsuranceagencyservicesprincipallytothecommercialmarket.AsofDecember31,2012,

M&TInsuranceAgencyhadassetsof$52millionandshareholder™sequityof$36million.M&TInsurance

Agencyrecordedrevenuesof$27millionduring2012.TheheadquartersofM&TInsuranceAgencyare

locatedat285DelawareAvenue,Buffalo,NewYork14202.
M&TMortgageReinsuranceCompany,Inc.(ﬁM&TReinsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryof
M&TBank,wasincorporatedasaVermontbusinesscorporationinJuly1999.M&TReinsuranceentersinto

reinsurancecontractswithinsurancecompanieswhoinsureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™s

paymentdefaultinconnectionwithM&TBank-relatedmortgageloans.M&TReinsurancereceivesashare

ofthepremiumforthosepoliciesinexchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofborrower

default.AsofDecember31,2012,M&TReinsurancehadassetsof$23millionandshareholder™sequityof

$14million.M&TReinsurancerecordedapproximately$2millionofrevenueduring2012.M&T

Reinsurance™sprincipalandregisteredofficeisat148CollegeStreet,Burlington,Vermont05401.
M&TRealEstateTrust(ﬁM&TRealEstateﬂ)isaMarylandRealEstateInvestmentTrustthatwas
formedthroughthemergeroftwoseparatesubsidiaries,buttracesitsorigintotheincorporationofM&T

RealEstate,Inc.inJuly1995.M&TRealEstateengagesincommercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloan

servicingtoM&TBank.AsofDecember31,2012,M&TRealEstatehadassetsof$16.6billion,common

shareholder™sequityof$15.6billion,andpreferredshareholders™equity,consistingof9%fixed-rate

preferredstock(parvalue$1,000),of$1million.Alloftheoutstandingcommonstockand89%ofthe

preferredstockofM&TRealEstateisownedbyM&TBank.Theremaining11%ofM&TRealEstate™s

outstandingpreferredstockisownedbyofficersorformerofficersoftheCompany.M&TRealEstate

recorded$760millionofrevenuein2012.TheheadquartersofM&TRealEstatearelocatedatM&TCenter,

OneFountainPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation(ﬁM&TRealtyCapitalﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationinOctober1973.M&TRealtyCapitalengagesinmultifamily

commercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloanservicingtopurchasersoftheloansitoriginates.Asof

December31,2012,M&TRealtyCapitalserviced$10.6billionofcommercialmortgageloansfornon-

affiliatesandhadassetsof$691millionandshareholder™sequityof$101million.M&TRealtyCapital

recordedrevenuesof$98millionin2012.TheheadquartersofM&TRealtyCapitalarelocatedat25South

CharlesStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
M&TSecurities,Inc.(ﬁM&TSecuritiesﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBankthatwas
incorporatedasaNewYorkbusinesscorporationinNovember1985.M&TSecuritiesisregisteredasa

broker/dealerundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,andasaninvestmentadvisorunder

theInvestmentAdvisorsActof1940,asamended(theﬁInvestmentAdvisorsActﬂ).M&TSecuritiesis

licensedasalifeinsuranceagentineachstatewhereM&TBankoperatesbranchofficesandinanumberof

otherstates.Itprovidessecuritiesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices.Asof

December31,2012,M&TSecuritieshadassetsof$56millionandshareholder™sequityof$36million.M&T

Securitiesrecorded$95millionofrevenueduring2012.TheheadquartersofM&TSecuritiesarelocatedat

OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.(ﬁWTInvestmentAdvisorsﬂ),awhollyowned
subsidiaryofM&TBankandformerlyknownasMTBInvestmentAdvisorspriortoitsnamechangeon

January10,2012,wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationonJune30,1995.WTInvestmentAdvisors,a

registeredinvestmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsAct,servesasinvestmentadvisortothe

WilmingtonFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,andinstitutionalclients.AsofDecember31,2012,

WTInvestmentAdvisorshadassetsof$26millionandshareholder™sequityof$22million.WTInvestment
5Advisorsrecordedrevenuesof$38millionin2012.TheheadquartersofWTInvestmentAdvisorsare
locatedat100EastPrattStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
WilmingtonFundsManagementCorporation(ﬁWilmingtonFundsManagementﬂ),formerlyknown
asRodneySquareManagementCorporation,isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&Tthatwasincorporatedin

September1981asaDelawarecorporation.WilmingtonFundsManagementisregisteredasaninvestment

advisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandservesastheinvestmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds.

WilmingtonFundsManagementhadassetsof$7millionandshareholder™sequityof$6millionasof

December31,2012.WilmingtonFundsManagementrecordedrevenuesof$19millionin2012.The

headquartersofWilmingtonFundsManagementarelocatedat1100NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,

Delaware19890.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentManagement,LLC(ﬁWTIMﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T
andwasincorporatedinDecember2001asaGeorgialimitedliabilitycompany.WTIMisaregistered

investmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandprovidesinvestmentmanagementservicesto

clients,includingcertainprivatefunds.AsofDecember31,2012,WTIMhasassetsof$22millionand

shareholder™sequityof$21million.WTIMrecordedrevenuesof$7millionin2012.WTIM™sheadquarters

islocatedatTerminus27
thFloor,3280PeachtreeRoadN.E.,Atlanta,Georgia30305.
OnFebruary21,2012,theshareholdersoftheWilmingtonFundsapprovedthereorganizationof
twelveWilmingtonFundsintothesurvivingMTBGroupofFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,

whichwererenamedastheWilmingtonFunds.Followingthereorganization,RodneySquareManagement

CorporationwasrenamedWilmingtonFundsManagementandcontinuedastheinvestmentadvisortothe

WilmingtonFunds,andWTInvestmentAdvisorsbecametheprimarysub-advisortotheWilmington

Funds.TheRegistrantanditsbankingsubsidiarieshaveanumberofotherspecial-purposeorinactive
subsidiaries.Theseothersubsidiariesdidnotrepresent,individuallyandcollectively,asignificantportionof

theCompany™sconsolidatedassets,netincomeandshareholders™equityatDecember31,2012.
SegmentInformation,PrincipalProducts/ServicesandForeignOperations
InformationabouttheRegistrant™sbusinesssegmentsisincludedinnote22ofNotestoFinancial

StatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataﬂandisfurther

discussedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsof

Operations.ﬂTheRegistrant™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponitsinternal

profitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunits

havebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsand

services,thetypeofcustomerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportable

segmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,

ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.TheCompany™sinternationalactivitiesarediscussedin

note17ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂ
Theonlyactivitiesthat,asaclass,contributed10%ormoreofthesumofconsolidatedinterest
incomeandotherincomeinanyofthelastthreeyearswereinterestonloansandfeesforprovidingdeposit

accountservices.TheamountofincomefromsuchsourcesduringthoseyearsissetforthontheCompany™s

ConsolidatedStatementofIncomefiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂ
SupervisionandRegulationoftheCompany
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothecomprehensiveregulatoryframeworkapplicabletobankand

financialholdingcompaniesandtheirsubsidiaries.RegulationoffinancialinstitutionssuchasM&Tandits

subsidiariesisintendedprimarilyfortheprotectionofdepositors,theFDIC™sDIFandthebankingand

financialsystemasawhole,andgenerallyisnotintendedfortheprotectionofshareholders,investorsor

creditorsotherthaninsureddepositors.Describedbelowarematerialelementsofselectedlawsand

regulationsapplicabletoM&Tanditssubsidiaries.Thedescriptionsarenotintendedtobecompleteandare

qualifiedintheirentiretybyreferencetothefulltextofthestatutesandregulationsdescribed.Changesin

applicablelaworregulation,andintheirapplicationbyregulatoryagencies,cannotbepredicted,butthey

mayhaveamaterialeffectonthebusinessandresultsofM&Tanditssubsidiaries.
6OverviewM&TisregisteredwiththeBoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveBoardSystem(theﬁFederalReserve

Boardﬂ)asaBHCundertheBHCA.Assuch,M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothesupervision,

examinationandreportingrequirementsoftheBHCAandtheregulationsoftheFederalReserveBoard.
Ingeneral,theBHCAlimitsthebusinessofaBHCtobanking,managingorcontrollingbanksand
otheractivitiesthattheFederalReserveBoardhasdeterminedtobesocloselyrelatedtobankingastobea

properincidentthereto.Inaddition,bankholdingcompaniesthatqualifyandelecttobefinancialholding

companiesmayengageinanyactivity,oracquireandretainthesharesofacompanyengagedinanyactivity,

thatiseither(i)financialinnatureorincidentaltosuchfinancialactivity(asdeterminedbytheFederal

ReserveBoard,byregulationororder,inconsultationwiththeSecretaryoftheTreasury)or

(ii)complementarytoafinancialactivityanddoesnotposeasubstantialrisktothesafetyandsoundnessof

depositoryinstitutionsorthefinancialsystemgenerally(assolelydeterminedbytheFederalReserveBoard).

Activitiesthatarefinancialinnatureincludesecuritiesunderwritinganddealing,insuranceunderwriting

andmakingmerchantbankinginvestments.
Tomaintainfinancialholdingcompanystatus,afinancialholdingcompanyandallofitsdepository
institutionsubsidiariesmustbeﬁwellcapitalizedﬂandﬁwellmanaged.ﬂM&Tbecameafinancialholding

companyonMarch1,2011.Ifafinancialholdingcompanyfailstocontinuetomeetanyoftheprerequisites

forfinancialholdingcompanystatus,thecompanymustenterintoanagreementwiththeFederalReserve

Boardtocomplywithallapplicablecapitalandmanagementrequirements.Undersuchagreement,the

noncompliantfinancialholdingcompanygenerallymaynotcommenceanyadditionalactivityoracquire

sharesofanycompanypursuanttothefinancialholdingcompanyprovisionsoftheBHCA,withoutprior

approvaloftheFederalReserveBoard.Ifthecompanydoesnotreturntocompliancewithin180days,the

FederalReserveBoardmayorderthecompanytodivestitssubsidiarybanksorthecompanymaydiscontinue

ordivestinvestmentsincompaniesengagedinactivitiespermissibleonlyforaBHCelectingtobetreatedasa

financialholdingcompany.Inorderforafinancialholdingcompanytocommenceanynewactivityorto

acquireacompanyengagedinanyactivitypursuanttothefinancialholdingcompanyprovisionsoftheBHCA,

eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionsubsidiaryofth
efinancialholdingcompanyalsomusthaveatleasta
ﬁsatisfactoryﬂratingundertheCommunityReinvestmentActof1977(theﬁCRAﬂ).Seethesectioncaptioned

ﬁCommunityReinvestmentActﬂincludedelsewhereinthisitem.
Currentfederallawalsoestablishesasystemoffunctionalregulationunderwhich,inadditiontothe
broadsupervisoryauthoritythattheFederalReserveBoardhasoverboththebankingandnon-banking

activitiesofbankholdingcompanies,thefederalbankingagencieswillregulatethebankingactivitiesof

bankholdingcompanies,banksandsavingsassociationsandsubsidiariesoftheforegoing,theU.S.

SecuritiesandExchangeCommission(ﬁSECﬂ)willregulatetheirsecuritiesactivities,andstateinsurance

regulatorswillregulatetheirinsuranceactivities.Inaddition,theFederalReserveBoardhasbroad

regulatoryrulesdevelopedbythefederalfinancialinstitutionsregulatorsthatrequiredisclosureofprivacy

policiestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,allowconsumerstopreventthedisclosureofcertain

personalinformationtononaffiliatedthirdparties.
RecentDevelopments
TheeventsofthepastfewyearshaveledtonumerousnewlawsintheUnitedStatesandinternationallyfor

financialinstitutions.TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(theﬁDodd-Frank

ActﬂorﬁDodd-Frankﬂ),whichwasenactedinJuly2010,significantlyrestructuresthefinancialregulatory

regimeintheUnitedStatesandprovidesforenhancedsupervisionandprudentialstandardsfor,among

otherthings,bankholdingcompanies,likeM&T,thathavetotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore.

TheimplicationsoftheDodd-FrankActfortheCompany™sbusinesseswilldependtoalargeextentonthe

mannerinwhichrulesadoptedpursuanttotheDodd-FrankActareimplementedbytheprimaryU.S.

financialregulatoryagenciesaswellaspotentialchangesinmarketpracticesandstructuresinresponseto

therequirementsoftheDodd-FrankActandfinancialreformsinotherjurisdictions.Amongotherthings:
ŠDodd-Frankrepealedthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,

therebypermittingdepositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts.
ŠDodd-Frankcentralizedresponsibilityforconsumerfinancialprotectionbycreatinganewagency,

theConsumerFinancialProtectionBureau(ﬁCFPBﬂ),andgivingitresponsibilityforregulating

consumerfinancialproductsandservicessoldbybanksandnon-bankcompaniesandsupervising
7banksandotherinsureddepositoryinstitutionswithassetsofmorethan$10billionandtheir
affiliatesforcompliancewithfederalconsumerprotectionlaws.
ŠDodd-Frankprovidedthatdebitcardinterchangefeesmustbereasonableandproportionaltothe

costincurredbytheissuerwithrespecttothetransaction.ThisprovisionisknownastheﬁDurbin

Amendment.ﬂTheFederalReserveBoardadoptedregulations,whichbecameeffectiveonOctober1,

2011,settingthemaximumpermissibleinterchangefeeasthesumof21centspertransactionand5

basispointsmultipliedbythevalueofthetransaction,withanadditionaladjustmentofuptoone

centpertransactioniftheissuerimplementscertainfraud-preventionstandards.Formore

informationregardingtheimpactoftheDurbinAmendmentonM&T™sresultsofoperations,see

PartII,Item7.
ŠDodd-Frankcreatedanewsystemicriskoversightbody,theFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil

(ﬁFSOCﬂ),tooverseeandcoordinatetheeffortsoftheprimaryU.S.financialregulatoryagenciesin

establishingregulationstoaddressfinancialstabilityconcerns.
ŠDodd-FrankdirectstheFSOCtomakerecommendationstotheFederalReserveBoardasto

enhancedsupervisionandprudentialstandardsapplicabletolarge,interconnectedfinancial

institutions,includingbankholdingcompanieslikeM&Twithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billion

ormore(oftenreferredtoasﬁsystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutionsﬂ),andauthorizesthe

FederalReserveBoardtoestablishsuchstandardseitheronitsownorupontherecommendationsof

theFSOC.Dodd-Frankmandatesthattherequirementsapplicabletosystemicallyimportant

financialinstitutionsbemorestringentthanthoseapplicabletootherfinancialcompanies.In

December2011,theFederalReserveBoardissuedforpubliccommentanoticeofproposed

rulemaking(theﬁProposedSIFIRulesﬂ)establishingenhancedprudentialstandardsresponsiveto

theseprovisionsfor:
Šrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsandleveragedlimits;
Šstresstestingofcapital;
Šliquidityrequirements;
Šoverallriskmanagementrequirements;
Šresolutionplanandcreditexposurereporting;and
Šconcentration/creditexposurelimits.
TheProposedSIFIRulesaddressawide,diversearrayofregulatoryareas,eachofwhichishighly
complex.Insomecasestheywouldimplementfinancialregulatoryrequirementsbeingproposedfor

thefirsttime,andinothersover-lapwithotherregulatoryreforms(includingtheBaselIIIcapital

andliquidityreformsdiscussedlaterinthissection).Therequirementsgenerallywillbecome

effectiveonthefirstdayofthefifthcalendarquarteraftertheeffectivedateofthefinalrule,although

certainrequirementshavedifferenttransitionperiods.M&TisanalyzingtheimpactoftheProposed

SIFIRulesonitsbusinesses.However,thefullimpactwillnotbeknownuntiltherules,andother

regulatoryinitiativesthatoverlapwiththerules,arefinalizedandtheircombinedimpactscanbe

understood.InOctober2012,theFederalReserveBoardimplemented,withrevisions,aportionof

theProposedSIFIRulesbyissuingafinalrulewithrespecttoannualcompany-runstresstest

requirementsforbankholdingcompanies,likeM&T,withtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionor

more.ŠDodd-FrankrequiresvariousU.S.financialregulatoryagenciestoimplementcomprehensiverules

governingthesupervision,structure,tradingandregulationofswapandover-the-counterderivative

marketsandparticipants.Dodd-Frankrequiresalargenumberofrulemakinginthisarea,manyof

whicharenotyetfinal.Oncetheserulesarefinalized,theycouldaffectthewayM&Torits

subsidiariesoperate,andresultingchangestothemarketsandparticipantscouldimpactbusiness

modelsandprofitabilityofM&Toritssubsidiaries.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalfinancialregulatoryagenciestoadoptrulesthatprohibit
banksandtheiraffiliatesfromengaginginproprietarytradingandinvestinginandsponsoringcertain

unregisteredinvestmentcompanies(definedashedgefundsandprivateequityfunds).Thestatutory

provisioniscommonlycalledtheﬁVolckerRule.ﬂInOctober2011,federalregulatorsproposedrulesto

implementtheVolckerRule.Theproposedrulesarehighlycomplex,andmanyaspectsoftheirapplication

remainuncertain.AlthoughtheVolckerRulebecameeffectiveonJuly21,2012,finalrulesforits
8implementationhavenotyetbeenadopted.InApril2012,theFederalReserveBoardconfirmedthat
bankinginstitutionswillhavetwoyearsfromtheeffectivedatetoconformtheiractivitiestothe

requirementsoftheVolckerRule.Basedontheproposedrules,M&Tdoesnotcurrentlyanticipatethatthe

VolckerRulewillhaveamaterialeffectontheoperationsofM&Tanditssubsidiaries.Untilafinalruleis

adopted,theprecisefinancialimpactoftheruleonM&T,itscustomersorthefinancialindustrymore

generally,cannotbedetermined.
Newlawsorregulationsorchangestoexistinglawsandregulations(includingchangesin
interpretationorenforcement)couldmateriallyadverselyaffectM&T™sfinancialconditionorresultsof

operations.Asdiscussedfurtherthroughoutthissection,manyaspectsoftheDodd-FrankActaresubjectto

furtherrulemakingandwilltakeeffectoverseveralyears,makingitdifficulttoanticipatetheoverall

financialimpactonM&Tanditssubsidiariesorthefinancialservicesindustrygenerally.
DividendsM&Tisalegalentityseparateanddistinctfromitsbankingandothersubsidiaries.Historically,themajority

ofM&T™srevenuehasbeenfromdividendspaidtoM&Tbyitssubsidiarybanks.M&TBankand

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubject,underoneormoreofthebankinglaws,torestrictionsontheamount

ofdividendstheymaydeclareandpay.FuturedividendpaymentstoM&Tbyitssubsidiarybankswillbe

dependentonanumberoffactors,includingtheearningsandfinancialconditionofeachsuchbank,and

aresubjecttothelimitationsreferredtoinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,

Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData,ﬂandtootherstatutorypowersofbankregulatory

agencies.Aninsureddepositoryinstitutionisprohibitedfrommakinganycapitaldistributiontoitsowner,
includinganydividend,if,aftermakingsuchdistribution,thedepositoryinstitutionfailstomeetthe

requiredminimumlevelforanyrelevantcapitalmeasure,includingtherisk-basedcapitaladequacyand

leveragestandardsdiscussedherein.
DividendpaymentsbyM&TtoitsshareholdersandstockrepurchasesbyM&Taresubjecttothe
oversightoftheFederalReserveBoard.AsdescribedbelowinthissectionunderﬁFederalReserveBoard™s

CapitalPlanReview,ﬂdividendsandstockrepurchasesgenerallymayonlybepaidormadeunderacapital

planastowhichtheFederalReserveBoardhasnotobjected.
SupervisionandRegulationofM&TBank™sSubsidiaries
M&TBankhasanumberofsubsidiaries.Thesesubsidiariesaresubjecttothelawsandregulationsofboth

thefederalgovernmentandthevariousstatesinwhichtheyconductbusiness.Forexample,M&TSecurities

isregulatedbytheSEC,theFinancialIndustryRegulatoryAuthorityandstatesecuritiesregulators.
FederalReserveBoard™sCapitalPlanReview
InNovember2011,theFederalReserveBoardpublishedafinalrulerequiringbankholdingcompanies

(includingM&T)with$50billionormoreoftotalconsolidatedassetstosubmitannualcapitalplanstothe

appropriateFederalReserveBank.Suchbankholdingcompanieswillalsoberequiredtocollectandreport

certainrelateddataonaquarterlybasistoallowtheFederalReserveBoardtomonitorthecompanies™

progressagainsttheirannualcapitalplans.Thecomprehensivecapitalplans,whicharepreparedusingBasel

Icapitalguidelines,includeaviewofcapitaladequacyunderfourscenariosŒaBHC-definedbaseline

scenario,abaselinescenarioprovidedbytheFederalReserveBoard,atleastoneBHC-definedstress

scenario,andastressscenarioprovidedbytheFederalReserveBoard.Coveredbankholdingcompanies,

includingM&T,maypaydividendsandrepurchasestockonlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanthathas

beenreviewedbytheFederalReserveBoardandastowhichtheFederalReserveBoardhasnotobjected.The

rulesprovidethattheFederalReserveBoardmayobjecttoacapitalplaniftheplandoesnotshowthatthe

coveredBHCwillmeetallminimumregulatorycapitalratiosandmaintainaratioofTier1commonequity

torisk-weightedassetsofatleast5%onaproformabasisunderexpectedandstressfulconditions

throughoutthenine-quarterplanninghorizoncoveredbythecapitalplan.Evenifsuchquantitative

thresholdsaremet,theFederalReserveBoardcouldobjecttoacapitalplanforqualitativereasons,including

inadequateassumptionsintheplan,otherunresolvedsupervisoryissuesoraninsufficientlyrobustcapital

adequacyprocess,orifthecapitalplanwouldotherwiseconstituteanunsafeorunsoundpracticeorviolate

law.Therulesalsorequire,amongotherthings,thatacoveredBHCmaynotmakeacapitaldistribution

unlessaftergivingeffecttothedistributionitwillmeetallminimumregulatorycapitalratiosandhavea

ratioofTier1commonequitytorisk-weightedassetsofatleast5%.Aspartofthisprocess,M&Talso
9providestheFederalReserveBoardwithprojectionscoveringthetimeperioditwilltakeM&Ttofully
complywithBaselIIIcapitalguidelines,includingthe7%Tier1commonequity,8.5%Tier1capitaland

3%leverageratiosaswellasgranularcomponentsofthoseelements.M&T™smostrecentannualcapitalplan

wasfiledwiththeFederalReserveBoardonJanuary7,2013.
ThepurposeoftheFederalReserveBoard™scapitalplanreviewistoensurethatthesebankholding
companieshaverobust,forward-lookingcapitalplanningprocessesthataccountforeachBHC™suniquerisks

andthatpermitcontinuedoperationsduringtimesofeconomicandfinancialstress.Thecapitalplanreview

rule,consistentwithpriorFederalReserveBoardguidance,providesthatcapitalplanscontemplatingdividend

payoutratiosexceeding30%ofprojectedafter-taxnetincomewillreceiveparticularlyclosescrutiny.
CapitalRequirements
M&Tanditssubsidiarybanksarerequiredtocomplywiththeapplicablecapitaladequacystandards

establishedbytheFederalReserveBoard.Therearetwobasicmeasuresofcapitaladequacyforbankholding

companiesthathavebeenpromulgatedbytheFederalReserveBoard:arisk-basedmeasureandaleverage

measure.Risk-basedCapitalStandards.
Therisk-basedcapitalstandardsaredesignedtomakeregulatory
capitalrequirementsmoresensitivetodifferencesincreditandmarketriskprofilesamongbankand

financialholdingcompanies,toaccountforoff-balancesheetexposure,andtominimizedisincentivesfor

holdingliquidassets.Assetsandoff-balancesheetitemsareassignedtobroadriskcategories,eachwith

appropriateweights.Theresultingcapitalratiosrepresentcapitalasapercentageoftotalrisk-weightedassets

andoff-balancesheetitems.
Theminimumguidelinefortheratiooftotalcapital(ﬁTotalCapitalﬂ)torisk-weightedassets(including
certainoff-balancesheetitems,suchasstandbylettersofcredit)is8.0%.AtleasthalfoftheTotalCapitalmust

beﬁTier1Capital,ﬂwhichcurrentlyconsistsofqualifyin
gcommonequity,qualifyingperpetualpreferredstock
(includingrelatedsurplus),minorityinterestsrelatingtoqualifyingcommonornon-cumulativeperpetual

preferredstockissuedbyaconsolidatedU.S.depositoryinstitutionorforeignbanksubsidiary,andcertain

ﬁrestrictedcorecapitalelements,ﬂasdiscussedbelow,lessgoodwillandcertainotherintangibleassets.

Currently,ﬁTier2Capitalﬂmayconsistof,amongotherthings,qualifyingsubordinateddebt,mandatorily

convertibledebtsecurities,preferredstockandtrustpreferredsecuritiesnotincludedinthedefinitionofTier1

Capital,andalimitedamountoftheallowanceforloanlosses.Non-cumulativeperpetualpreferredstock,trust

preferredsecuritiesandotherso-calledﬁrestrictedcorecapitalelementsﬂarecurrentlylimitedto25%ofTier1

Capital.PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionof

Tier1Capitalofbankholdingcompanieshavingconsolidatedassetsexceeding$500million,suchasM&T,

overathree-yearperiodthatbeganinJanuary2013.
Theminimumguidelinetobeconsideredwell-capitalizedforTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalis6.0%
and10.0%,respectively.AtDecember31,2012,theRegistrant™sconsolidatedTier1Capitalratiowas

10.22%anditsTotalCapitalratiowas13.39%.TheelementscurrentlycomprisingTier1CapitalandTier2

CapitalandtheminimumTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalratiosmayinthefuturebesubjecttochange,as

discussedingreaterdetailbelow.
BaselIandIIStandards.
M&Tcurrentlycalculatesitsrisk-basedcapitalratiosunderguidelines
adoptedbytheFederalReserveBoardbasedonthe1988CapitalAccord(ﬁBaselIﬂ)oftheBaselCommittee

onBankingSupervision(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ).In2004,theBaselCommitteepublishedanewsetofrisk-

basedcapitalstandards(ﬁBaselIIﬂ)inordertoupdateBaselI.BaselIIprovidestwoapproachesforsetting

capitalstandardsforcreditriskŠaninternalratings-basedapproachtailoredtoindividualinstitutions™

circumstancesandastandardizedapproachthatbasesrisk-weightingonexternalcreditassessmentstoa

muchgreaterextentthanpermittedintheexistingrisk-basedcapitalguidelines.BaselIIalsowouldset

capitalrequirementsforoperationalriskandrefinetheexistingcapitalrequirementsformarketrisk

exposures.AdefinitivefinalruleforimplementingtheadvancedapproachesofBaselIIintheUnitedStates,

whichappliesonlytointernationallyactivebankingorganizations,orﬁcorebanksﬂ(definedasthosewith

consolidatedtotalassetsof$250billionormoreorconsolidatedon-balancesheetforeignexposuresof$10

billionormore)becameeffectiveonApril1,2008.OtherU.S.bankingorganizationsmayelecttoadoptthe

requirementsofthisrule(iftheymeetapplicablequalificationrequirements),butarenotrequiredto

comply.Therulealsoallowsabankingorganization™sprimaryfederalsupervisortodeterminethat

applicationoftherulewouldnotbeappropriateinlightofthebank™sassetsize,levelofcomplexity,risk

profileorscopeofoperations.NeitherM&TBanknorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.iscurrentlyrequiredto

complywithBaselII.
10InJuly2008,theU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesissuedaproposedrulethatwouldprovidebanking
organizationsthatdonotusetheadvancedapproacheswiththeoptiontoimplementanewrisk-based

capitalframework.ThisframeworkwouldadoptthestandardizedapproachofBaselIIforcreditrisk,the

basicindicatorapproachofBaselIIforoperationalrisk,andrelateddisclosurerequirements.Althoughthis

proposedrulegenerallyparallelstherelevantapproachesunderBaselII,itdivergeswhereUnitedStates

marketshaveuniquecharacteristicsandriskprofiles,mostnotablywithrespecttoriskweightingresidential

mortgageexposures.AdefinitivefinalrulehasnotbeenissuedasofFebruary2013.
LeverageRequirements.
AlthoughneitherBaselInorBaselIIincludesaleveragerequirementasan
internationalstandard,theFederalReserveBoardhasestablishedminimumleverageratioguidelinestobe

consideredwell-capitalizedforbankholdingcompanies.Theseguidelinesprovideforaminimumratioof

Tier1Capitaltoaveragetotalassets,lessgoodwillandcertainotherintangibleassets(theﬁLeverageRatioﬂ),

of3.0%forbankholdingcompaniesthatmeetcertainspecifiedcriteria,includinghavingthehighest

regulatoryrating.AllotherbankholdingcompaniesgenerallyarerequiredtomaintainaLeverageRatioof

atleast4%.M&T™sLeverageRatioatDecember31,2012was10.07%.
Theguidelinesalsoprovidethatbankholdingcompaniesexperiencinginternalgrowthormaking
acquisitionswillbeexpectedtomaintainstrongcapitalpositionssubstantiallyabovetheminimum

supervisorylevelswithoutsignificantrelianceonintangibleassets.Furthermore,theFederalReserveBoard

hasindicatedthatitwillconsideraﬁtangibleTier1Capitalleverageratioﬂ(deductingallintangibles)and

otherindicatorsofcapitalstrengthinevaluatingproposalsforexpansionornewactivities.
BaselIIIStandards.
InDecember2010,theBaselCommitteereleaseditsfinalframeworkfor
strengtheninginternationalcapitalandliquidityregulation,nowofficiallyidentifiedbytheBaselCommittee

asﬁBaselIII.ﬂBaselIII,whenimplementedbytheU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesasproposedinajointnotice

ofproposedrulemakinginJune2012andfullyphased-in,willrequirebankholdingcompaniesandtheir

banksubsidiariestomaintainsubstantiallymorecapital,withagreateremphasisoncommonequity.The

BaselIIIfinalcapitalframework,amongotherthings:
ŠintroducesasanewcapitalmeasureﬁCommonEquityTier1,ﬂorﬁCET1,ﬂspecifiesthatTier1

capitalconsistsofCET1andﬁAdditionalTier1capitalﬂinstrumentsmeetingspecifiedrequirements,

definesCET1narrowlybyrequiringthatmostdeductionsoradjustmentstoregulatorycapital

measuresbemadetoCET1andnottotheothercomponentsofcapital,andexpandsthescopeofthe

deductionsoradjustmentsascomparedtoexistingregulations;
Šwhenfullyphasedin(whichiscontemplatedtooccurbyJanuary1,2019),requiresbankholding

companiestomaintain:
Šasanewlyadoptedinternationalstandard,aminimumratioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsofat

least4.5%,plusa2.5%ﬁcapitalconservationbufferﬂ(whichisaddedtothe4.5%CET1ratioas

thatbufferisphasedin,effectivelyresultinginaminimumratioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsof

atleast7%);
ŠaminimumratioofTier1capitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast6.0%,plusthecapital

conservationbuffer(whichisaddedtothe6.0%Tier1capitalratioasthatbufferisphasedin,

effectivelyresultinginaminimumTier1capitalratioof8.5%uponfullimplementation);
ŠaminimumratioofTotal(thatis,Tier1plusTier2)capitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast8.0%,

plusthecapitalconservationbuffer(whichisaddedtothe8.0%totalcapitalratioasthatbufferis

phasedin,effectivelyresultinginaminimumtotalcapitalratioof10.5%uponfull

implementation);
Šasanewlyadoptedinternationalstandard,aminimumleverageratioof3%,calculatedastheratio

ofTier1capitaltobalancesheetexposurespluscertainoff-balancesheetexposures(astheaverage

foreachquarterofthemonth-endratiosforthequarter);and
Šprovidesforaﬁcountercyclicalcapitalbuffer,ﬂgenerallytobeimposedwhennationalregulators

determinethatexcessaggregatecreditgrowthbecomesassociatedwithabuildupofsystemicrisk,

thatwouldbeaCET1add-ontothecapitalconservationbufferintherangeof0%to2.5%when

fullyimplemented(potentiallyresultingintotalbuffersofbetween2.5%and5%).
Thecapitalconservationbufferisdesignedtoabsorblossesduringperiodsofeconomicstress.
BankinginstitutionswitharatioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsabovetheminimumbutbelowthe

conservationbuffer(orbelowthecombinedcapitalconservationbufferandcountercyclicalcapitalbuffer,

whenthelatterisapplied)willfaceconstraintsondividends,equityrepurchasesandcompensationbasedon

theamountoftheshortfall.
11InJuly2011,theBaselCommitteeintroducedaconsultativedocumentestablishingarequirementfora
capitalsurchargeoncertaingloballysystemicallyimportantbanks(ﬁG-SIBsﬂ),andinNovember2011,the

BaselCommitteeissuedfinalprovisionssubstantiallyunchangedfromthepreviousproposal.Anﬁindicator-

basedapproachﬂwillbeusedtodeterminewhetherabankisaG-SIBandtheappropriatelevelofthe

surchargetobeapplied.Theﬁindicator-basedapproachﬂconsistsoffivebroadcategories:size,

interconnectedness,lackofsubstitutability,cross-jurisdictionalactivityandcomplexity.Banksfoundtobe

G-SIBswillbesubjecttoaprogressiveCET1surchargerangingfrom1%to3.5%overtheBaselIII7%CET1

requirement.ThesurchargewillbecomefullyeffectiveonJanuary1,2019.
TheimplementationoftheBaselIIIfinalframeworkwasoriginallycontemplatedtocommenceon
January1,2013,butinNovember2012,theU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesannouncedthatimplementation

wouldnottakeeffectonthatdate.AsofFebruary2013,noneweffectivedatehadbeenannounced.Upon

effectivenessoftheBaselIIIcapitalrules,bankinginstitutionswillberequiredtomeetthefollowing

minimumcapitalratiosbeforetheapplicationofanybuffer:
Š3.5%CET1torisk-weightedassets;
Š4.5%Tier1capitaltorisk-weightedassets;and
Š8.0%Totalcapitaltorisk-weightedassets.
TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkprovidesforanumberofnewdeductionsfromandadjustmentsto
CET1.Theseinclude,forexample,therequirementthatmortgageservicingrights,deferredtaxassets

dependentuponfuturetaxableincomeandsignificantinvestmentsinnon-consolidatedfinancialentitiesbe

deductedfromCET1totheextentthatanyonesuchcategoryexceeds10%ofCET1orallsuchcategoriesin

theaggregateexceed15%ofCET1.
ImplementationofthedeductionsandotheradjustmentstoCET1arecontemplatedtobeginon
January1,2014(whichmaybesubjecttodelaygiventhedelayedinitialimplementationoftheBaselIII

framework)andwillbephased-inoverafive-yearperiod(20%peryear).Theimplementationofthecapital

conservationbufferwillbeginonJanuary1,2016(subjecttopotentialdelay)at0.625%andbephasedin

overafour-yearperiod(increasingbythatamountoneachsubsequentJanuary1,untilitreaches2.5%on

January1,2019,subjecttopotentialdelay).
InJune2012,theU.S.bankingregulatorsrequestedcommentonthreesetsofproposedrulesthat
wouldimplementBaselIIIintheU.S.Theseproposedrules,amongotherthings,wouldrevisethecapital

levelsatwhichabankinginstitutionwouldbesubjecttothepromptcorrectiveactionframework(including

theestablishmentofanewTier1commoncapitalrequirement),eliminateorreducetheabilityofcertain

typesofcapitalinstrumentstocountasregulatorycapital,eliminatetheTier1treatmentoftrustpreferred

securities(asrequiredbytheDodd-FrankAct)followingaphase-inperiodbeginningin2013,andrequire

newdeductionsfromcapitalforinvestmentsinunconsolidatedfinancialinstitutions,mortgageservicing

assetsanddeferredtaxassetsthatexceedspecifiedthresholds.Theproposedrulesalsowouldestablishanew

capitalconservationbufferand,forlargeorinternationallyactivebanksnotcurrentlyincludingM&T,a

supplementalleveragecapitalrequirementthatwouldtakeintoaccountcertainoff-balancesheetexposures

andacountercyclicalcapitalbufferthatwouldinitiallybesetatzero.Theproposedruleswouldalsorevise

theFederalReserveBoard™srulesforcalculatingrisk-weightedassetstoenhancerisksensitivity.
TheDodd-FrankActappearstorequiretheFederalReserveBoardtoadoptregulationsimposinga
continuingﬁfloorﬂoftheBaselI-basedcapitalrequirementsincaseswheretheBaselII-basedcapital

requirementsandanychangesincapitalregulationsresultingfromBaselIIIotherwisewouldpermitlower

requirements.In2011,theFederalReserveBoard,FDICandOCCjointlyapprovedafinalrulewhich

requiresabankingorganizationoperatingundertheagencies™advancedapproachesrisk-basedcapitalrules

toadheretothehigheroftheminimumrequirementsunderthegeneralrisk-basedcapitalrulesandthe

minimumrequirementsundertheadvancedapproachesrisk-basedcapitalrules.
LiquidityRatiosunderBaselIII.
Historically,regulationandmonitoringofbankandBHCliquidity
hasbeenaddressedasasupervisorymatter,bothintheU.S.andinternationally,withoutrequiredformulaic

measures.TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkrequiresbanksandbankholdingcompaniestomeasuretheir

liquidityagainstspecificliquiditytests.Onetest,referredtoastheliquiditycoverageratio(ﬁLCRﬂ),is

designedtoensurethatthebankingentitymaintainsanadequatelevelofunencumberedhigh-qualityliquid

assetsequaltotheentity™sexpectednetcashoutflowfora30-daytimehorizon(or,ifgreater,25%ofits

expectedtotalcashoutflow)underanacuteliquiditystressscenario.Theother,referredtoasthenetstable

fundingratio(ﬁNSFRﬂ),isdesignedtopromotemoremedium-andlong-termfundingoftheassetsand

activitiesofbankingentitiesoveraone-yeartimehorizon.Theserequirementswillincentbankingentities
12toincreasetheirholdingsofU.S.Treasurysecuritiesandothersovereigndebtasacomponentofassetsand
increasetheuseoflong-termdebtasafundingsource.TheBaselIIIliquidityframeworkcontemplatesthat

theLCRwillbesubjecttoanobservationperiodcontinuingthroughmid-2013and,subjecttoanyrevisions

resultingfromtheanalysesconductedanddatacollectedduringtheobservationperiod,implementedasa

minimumstandardonJanuary1,2015.However,inJanuary2013,thegoverningbodyoftheBasel

CommitteeendorsedrevisionstotheLCRwhichincludeintroducingtheLCRasplannedonJanuary1,

2015,buttheminimumrequirementwillbeginat60%,raisinginequalannualstepsoftenpercentage

pointseachcontemplatedtoreach100%onJanuary1,2019.Similarly,theBaselIIIliquidityframework

contemplatesthattheNSFRwillbesubjecttoanobservationperiodthroughmid-2016and,subjecttoany

revisionsresultingfromtheanalysesconductedanddatacollectedduringtheobservationperiod,

implementedasaminimumstandardbyJanuary1,2018.Thesenewstandardsaresubjecttofurther

rulemakingandtheirtermsmaywellchangebeforeimplementation.TheU.S.bankregulatoryagencieshave

notyetproposedrulestoimplementBaselIII™sliquidityrequirements.
TheProposedSIFIRulesaddressliquidityrequirementsforbankholdingcompanies,including
M&T,with$50billionormoreintotalconsolidatedassets.Inthereleaseaccompanyingthoserules,the

FederalReserveBoardstatesageneralintentiontoincorporatetheBaselIIIliquidityframeworkforthe

bankholdingcompaniescoveredbytheProposedSIFIRulesoraﬁsubsetﬂofthosebankholdingcompanies.

AlthoughtheserulesdonotincludeprescriptiveratiosliketheLCRandNSFR,theydoincludedetailed

liquidity-relatedrequirements,includingrequirementsforcashflowprojections,liquiditystresstesting

(including,ataminimum,overtimehorizonsthatincludeanovernighttimehorizon,a30-daytime

horizon,a90-daytimehorizonanda1-yeartimehorizon),andarequirementthatcoveredbankholding

companiesmaintainaliquiditybufferofunencumberedhighlyliquidassetssufficienttomeetprojectednet

cashoutflowsandtheprojectedlossorimpairmentofexistingfundingsourcesfor30daysoverarangeof

liquiditystressscenarios.
CapitalRequirementsofSubsidiaryDepositoryInstitutions.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.
aresubjecttosubstantiallysimilarcapitalrequirementsasthoseapplicabletoM&T.AsofDecember31,

2012,bothM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.wereincompliancewithapplicableminimumcapital

requirements.NoneofM&T,M&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasbeenadvisedbyanyfederal

bankingagencyofafailuretomeetanyspecificminimumcapitalratiorequirementapplicabletoitasof

December31,2012.Failuretomeetcapitalguidelinescouldsubjectabanktoavarietyofenforcement

remedies,includingtheterminationofdepositinsurancebytheFDIC,andtocertainrestrictionsonits

business.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIA.ﬂ
GiventhattheBaselIIIrulesaresubjecttochangeandthescopeandcontentofcapitalregulations
thatU.S.federalbankingagenciesmayadoptundertheDodd-FrankActisuncertain,M&Tcannotbe

certainoftheimpactnewcapitalregulationswillhaveonitscapitalratiosorthoseofitsbanksubsidiaries.
SafetyandSoundnessStandards
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankregulatoryagenciespursuanttotheFederalDepositInsuranceAct,

asamended(theﬁFDIAﬂ),establishgeneralstandardsrelatingtointernalcontrolsandinformationsystems,

internalauditsystems,loandocumentation,creditunderwriting,interestrateexposure,assetgrowthand

compensation,feesandbenefits.Ingeneral,theseguidelinesrequire,amongotherthings,appropriate

systemsandpracticestoidentifyandmanagetheriskandexposuresspecifiedintheguidelines.Additionally,

theagenciesadoptedregulationsthatauthorize,butdonotrequire,anagencytoorderaninstitutionthat

hasbeengivennoticebyanagencythatitisnotsatisfyinganyofsuchsafetyandsoundnessstandardsto

submitacomplianceplan.If,afterbeingsonotified,aninstitutionfailstosubmitanacceptablecompliance

planorfailsinanymaterialrespecttoimplementanacceptablecomplianceplan,theagencymustissuean

orderdirectingactiontocorrectthedeficiencyandmayissueanorderdirectingotheractionsofthetypesto

whichanundercapitalizedinstitutionissubjectundertheﬁpromptcorrectiveactionﬂprovisionsofthe

FDIA.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.Ifaninstitutionfailstocomplywithsuchan

order,theagencymayseektoenforcesuchorderinjudicialproceedingsandtoimposecivilmoney

penalties.RegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIA
TheFDIAestablishesasystemofregulatoryremediestoresolvetheproblemsofundercapitalized

institutions,referredtoasthepromptcorrectiveaction.Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveestablishedfive

capitalcategories(ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂﬁadequatelycapitalized,ﬂﬁundercapitalized,ﬂﬁsignificantly
13undercapitalizedﬂandﬁcriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ)andmusttakecertainmandatorysupervisoryactions,
andareauthorizedtotakeotherdiscretionaryactions,withrespecttoinstitutionswhichare

undercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcriticallyundercapitalized.Theseverityofthese

mandatoryanddiscretionarysupervisoryactionsdependsuponthecapitalcategoryinwhichtheinstitution

isplaced.Generally,subjecttoanarrowexception,theFDIArequiresthebankingregulatortoappointa

receiverorconservatorforaninstitutionthatiscriticallyundercapitalized.Thefederalbankregulatory

agencieshavespecifiedbyregulationtherelevantcapitallevelsforeachcategory:
ﬁWell-CapitalizedﬂﬁAdequatelyCapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatioof5%,
Tier1Capitalratioof6%,

TotalCapitalratioof10%,and

Notsubjecttoawrittenagreement,order,

capitaldirectiveorregulatoryremedy

directiverequiringaspecificcapitallevel.
LeverageRatioof4%,
Tier1Capitalratioof4%,and

TotalCapitalratioof8%.
ﬁUndercapitalizedﬂﬁSignificantlyUndercapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatiolessthan4%,

Tier1Capitalratiolessthan4%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan8%.
LeverageRatiolessthan3%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan3%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan6%.
ﬁCriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ
Tangibleequitytototalassetslessthan2%.
Forpurposesoftheseregulations,thetermﬁtangibleequityﬂincludescorecapitalelementscounted
asTier1Capitalforpurposesoftherisk-basedcapitalstandardsplustheamountofoutstandingcumulative

perpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),minusallintangibleassetswithcertainexceptions.An

institutionthatisclassifiedaswell-capitalizedbasedonitscapitallevelsmaybeclassifiedasadequately

capitalized,andaninstitutionthatisadequatelycapitalizedorundercapitalizedbaseduponitscapitallevels

maybetreatedasthoughitwereundercapitalizedorsignificantlyundercapitalized,respectively,ifthe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,afternoticeandopportunityforhearing,determinesthatanunsafeor

unsoundconditionoranunsafeorunsoundpracticewarrantssuchtreatment.
Aninstitutionthatiscategorizedasundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcritically
undercapitalizedisrequiredtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplantoitsappropriatefederal

bankingregulator.UndertheFDIA,inorderforthecapitalrestorationplantobeacceptedbythe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,aBHCmustguaranteethatasubsidiarydepositoryinstitutionwill

complywithitscapitalrestorationplan,subjecttocertainlimitations.TheBHCmustalsoprovide

appropriateassurancesofperformance.TheobligationofacontrollingBHCundertheFDIAtofunda

capitalrestorationplanislimitedtothelesserof5.0%ofanundercapitalizedsubsidiary™sassetsorthe

amountrequiredtomeetregulatorycapitalrequirements.Anundercapitalizedinstitutionisalsogenerally

prohibitedfromincreasingitsaveragetotalassets,makingacquisitions,establishinganybranchesor

engaginginanynewlineofbusiness,exceptinaccordancewithanacceptedcapitalrestorationplanorwith

theapprovaloftheFDIC.Institutionsthataresignificantlyundercapitalizedorundercapitalizedandeither

failtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanorfailtoimplementanapprovedcapitalrestoration

planmaybesubjecttoanumberofrequirementsandrestrictions,includingorderstosellsufficientvoting

stocktobecomeadequatelycapitalized,requirementstoreducetotalassetsandcessationofreceiptof

depositsfromcorrespondentbanks.Criticallyundercapitalizeddepositoryinstitutionsfailingtosubmitor

implementanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanaresubjecttoappointmentofareceiverorconservator.
SupportofSubsidiaryBanks
UnderlongstandingFederalReserveBoardpolicywhichhasbeencodifiedbytheDodd-FrankAct,M&Tis

expectedtoactasasourceoffinancialstrengthto,andtocommitresourcestosupport,itssubsidiarybanks.

ThissupportmayberequiredattimeswhenM&Tmaynotbeinclinedtoprovideit.Inaddition,anycapital

loansbyaBHCtoasubsidiarybankaresubordinateinrightofpaymenttodepositsandtocertainother

indebtednessofsuchsubsidiarybank.Intheeventofabankholdingcompany™sbankruptcy,any

commitmentbytheBHCtoafederalbankregulatoryagencytomaintainthecapitalofasubsidiarybank

willbeassumedbythebankruptcytrusteeandentitledtoapriorityofpayment.
14Cross-GuaranteeProvisions
Eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionﬁcontrolledﬂ(asdefinedintheBHCA)bythesameBHCcanbeheld

liabletotheFDICforanylossincurred,orreasonablyexpectedtobeincurred,bytheFDICduetothe

defaultofanyotherinsureddepositoryinstitutioncontrolledbythatholdingcompanyandforany

assistanceprovidedbytheFDICtoanyofthosebanksthatisindangerofdefault.TheFDIC™sclaimunder

thecross-guaranteeprovisionsissuperiortoclaimsofshareholdersoftheinsureddepositoryinstitutionor

itsholdingcompanyandtomostclaimsarisingoutofobligationsorliabilitiesowedtoaffiliatesofthe

institution,butissubordinatetoclaimsofdepositors,securedcreditorsandholdersofsubordinateddebt

(otherthanaffiliates)ofthecommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheFDICmaydeclineto

enforcethecross-guaranteeprovisionsifitdeterminesthatawaiverisinthebestinterestoftheDIF.
TransactionswithAffiliates
TherearevariouslegalrestrictionsontheextenttowhichM&Tanditsnon-banksubsidiariesmayborrow

orotherwiseobtainfundingfromM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Ingeneral,Sections23Aand23B

oftheFederalReserveBoardActandFederalReserveBoardRegulationWrequirethatanyﬁcovered

transactionﬂbyM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(oranyoftheirrespectivesubsidiaries)withan

affiliatemustbesecuredbydesignatedamountsofspecifiedcollateralandmustbelimitedto(a)inthecase

ofanysinglesuchaffiliate,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsoftheinsureddepository

institutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed10%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusofsuchinsured

depositoryinstitution,and(b)inthecaseofallaffiliates,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsofan

insureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed20%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusof

suchinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActsignificantlyexpandedthecoverageandscopeof

thelimitationsonaffiliatetransactionswithinabankingorganization,includingforexample,the

requirementthatthe10%ofcapitallimitoncoveredtransactionsbegintoapplytofinancialsubsidiaries.

ﬁCoveredtransactionsﬂaredefinedbystatutetoinclude,amongotherthings,aloanorextensionofcredit,

aswellasapurchaseofsecuritiesissuedbyanaffiliate,apurchaseofassets(unlessotherwiseexemptedby

theFederalReserveBoard)fromtheaffiliate,certainderivativetransactionsthatcreateacreditexposureto

anaffiliate,theacceptanceofsecuritiesissuedbytheaffiliateascollateralforaloan,andtheissuanceofa

guarantee,acceptanceorletterofcreditonbehalfofanaffiliate.Allcoveredtransactions,includingcertain

additionaltransactions(suchastransactionswithathirdpartyinwhichanaffiliatehasafinancialinterest),

mustbeconductedonmarketterms.
FDICInsuranceAssessments
DepositInsuranceAssessments.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.paydepositinsurancepremiumsto
theFDICbasedonanassessmentrateestablishedbytheFDIC.
SinceApril1,2011,theFDIC,asrequiredbytheDodd-FrankAct,hasmandatedthatthedeposit
insuranceassessmentbebasedonadepositoryinstitution™saverageconsolidatedtotalassetsminusits

averagetangibleequity.Additionally,theFDIC™sdepositinsuranceassessmentsystemhasatwoscorecard

systemforlargeinstitutions,oneformostlargeinstitutionsthathavemorethan$10billioninassets,suchas

M&TBank,andanotherforﬁhighlycomplexﬂinstitutionsthathaveover$50billioninassetsandarefully

ownedbyaparentwithover$500billioninassets.Eachscorecardhasaperformancescoreandaloss-

severityscorethatiscombinedtoproduceatotalscore,whichistranslatedintoaninitialassessmentrate.In

calculatingthesescores,theFDICutilizesthebank™scapitallevelandsupervisoryratings(itsﬁCAMELSﬂ

ratings)andcertainnewforward-lookingfinancialmeasurestoassessaninstitution™sabilitytowithstand

asset-relatedstressandfunding-relatedstress.TheFDIC™scurrentassessmentruledoesnotuserisk

categoriesandlong-termdebtissuerratingsforcalculatingrisk-basedassessmentsforinstitutionshaving

morethan$10billioninassets.TheFDIChastheabilitytomakediscretionaryadjustmentstothetotal

score,upordown,baseduponsignificantriskfactorsthatarenotadequatelycapturedinthescorecard.The

totalscoreisthentranslatedtoaninitialbaseassessmentrateonanon-linear,sharply-increasingscale.
Forlargeinstitutions,includingM&TBank,theinitialbaseassessmentraterangesfrom5to35basis
points(hundredthsofonepercent)onanannualizedbasis.Aftertheeffectofpotentialbase-rate

adjustments,thetotalbaseassessmentratecouldrangefrom2.5to45basispointsonanannualizedbasis.

Thepotentialadjustmentstoaninstitution™sinitialbaseassessmentrateinclude(i)apotentialdecreaseof

upto5basispointsforcertainlong-termunsecureddebtand(ii)(exceptforwell-capitalizedinstitutions

withaCAMELSratingof1or2)apotentialincreaseofupto10basispointsforbrokereddepositsinexcess

of10%ofdomesticdeposits.AstheDIFreserveratiogrows,therateschedulewillbeadjusteddownward.
15Additionally,thereisanadjustmentfordepositoryinstitutiondebtwherebyaninstitutionwillpayan
additionalpremiumequalto50basispointsoneverydollar(above3%ofaninstitution™sTier1capital)of

long-term,unsecureddebtheldthatwasissuedbyanotherinsureddepositoryinstitution(excludingdebt

guaranteedundertheTemporaryLiquidityGuaranteeProgram).
InOctober2010,theFDICadoptedanewrestorationplantoensurethedesignatedreserveratio
reaches1.35%bySeptember2020.TheFDICwill,atleastsemi-annually,updateitsincomeandloss

projectionsfortheDIFand,ifnecessary,proposerulestofurtherincreaseassessmentrates.
InNovember2010,theFDICissuedafinalruletoimplementprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActthat
providefortemporaryunlimitedcoveragefornoninterest-bearingtransactionaccounts.Theseparate

coveragefornoninterest-bearingtransactionaccountsbecameeffectiveonDecember31,2010and

terminatedonDecember31,2012.
UndertheFDIA,insuranceofdepositsmaybeterminatedbytheFDICuponafindingthatthe
institutionhasengagedinunsafeandunsoundpractices,isinanunsafeorunsoundconditiontocontinue

operations,orhasviolatedanyapplicablelaw,regulation,rule,orderorconditionimposedbytheFDIC.
FICOAssessments.
Inaddition,theDepositInsuranceFundsActof1996authorizedtheFinancing
Corporation(ﬁFICOﬂ)toimposeassessmentsonDIFapplicabledepositsinordertoservicetheintereston

FICO™sbondobligationsfromdepositinsurancefundassessments.Theamountassessedonindividual

institutionsbyFICOisinadditiontotheamount,ifany,paidfordepositinsuranceaccordingtotheFDIC™s

risk-relatedassessmentrateschedules.FICOassessmentratesmaybeadjustedquarterlytoreflectachange

inassessmentbase.M&TBankrecognized$5millionofexpenserelatedtoitsFICOassessmentsand

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.recognized$70thousandofsuchexpensein2012.
AcquisitionsTheBHCArequireseveryBHCtoobtainthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoardbefore:(1)itmay

acquiredirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanybankorsavingsandloan

association,ifaftersuchacquisition,theBHCwilldirectlyorindirectlyownorcontrol5%ormoreofthe

votingsharesoftheinstitution;(2)itoranyofitssubsidiaries,otherthanabank,mayacquireallor

substantiallyalloftheassetsofanybankorsavingsandloanassociation;or(3)itmaymergeorconsolidate

withanyotherBHC.SinceJuly2011,financialholdingcompaniesandbankholdingcompanieswith

consolidatedassetsexceeding$50billion,suchasM&T,havebeenrequiredto(i)obtainpriorapproval

fromtheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringcertainnonbankfinancialcompanieswithassetsexceeding

$10billionand(ii)providepriorwrittennoticetotheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringdirector

indirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanycompanyhavingconsolidatedassetsof$10billion

ormore.SinceJuly2011,bankholdingcompaniesseekingapprovaltocompleteanacquisitionhavebeen

requiredtobewell-capitalizedandwell-managed.
TheBHCAfurtherprovidesthattheFederalReserveBoardmaynotapproveanytransactionthat
wouldresultinamonopolyorwouldbeinfurtheranceofanycombinationorconspiracytomonopolizeor

attempttomonopolizethebusinessofbankinginanysectionoftheUnitedStates,ortheeffectofwhich

maybesubstantiallytolessencompetitionortotendtocreateamonopolyinanysectionofthecountry,or

thatinanyothermannerwouldbeinrestraintoftrade,unlesstheanticompetitiveeffectsoftheproposed

transactionareclearlyoutweighedbythepublicinterestinmeetingtheconvenienceandneedsofthe

communitytobeserved.TheFederalReserveBoardisalsorequiredtoconsiderthefinancialand

managerialresourcesandfutureprospectsofthebankholdingcompaniesandbanksconcernedandthe

convenienceandneedsofthecommunitytobeserved.Considerationoffinancialresourcesgenerally

focusesoncapitaladequacy,andconsiderationofconvenienceandneedsissuesincludestheparties™

performanceundertheCRA.TheFederalReserveBoardmusttakeintoaccounttheinstitutions™

effectivenessincombatingmoneylaundering.Inaddition,pursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,theBHCAwas

amendedtorequiretheFederalReserveBoard,whenevaluatingaproposedtransaction,toconsiderthe

extenttowhichthetransactionwouldresultingreaterormoreconcentratedriskstothestabilityofthe

UnitedStatesbankingorfinancialsystem.
U.S.TreasuryCapitalPurchaseProgram
PursuanttotheU.S.Treasury™sTroubledAssetReliefProgramCapitalPurchaseProgram(ﬁTARPﬂ),on

December23,2008,M&TissuedandsoldtotheU.S.Treasuryinaprivateoffering(i)$600millionof

SeriesAPreferredStockand(ii)awarranttopurchase1,218,522sharesofM&TCommonStockatan

exercisepriceof$73.86pershare,subjecttocertainanti-dilutionandotheradjustments(theﬁM&T
16Warrantﬂ).M&Telectedtoparticipateinthecapitalpurchaseprogramatanamountequalto
approximately1%ofitsrisk-weightedassetsatthetime.OnMay18,2011,M&Tredeemedandretired$370

millionoftheSeriesAPreferredStock,onAugust21,2012,theU.S.Treasurycompleteditspublicoffering

oftheremainingoutstandingsharesofSeriesAPreferredStockandonDecember17,2012,theU.S.

TreasurycompleteditspublicofferingoftheM&TWarrant.InconnectionwithitsacquisitionofProvident

onMay23,2009,M&Tissued$151.5millionofSeriesCPreferredStockinexchangeforthesecurities

issuedbyProvidenttotheU.S.TreasuryonNovember14,2008,andassumedawarrantissuedbyProvident

totheU.S.Treasury,which,onaconvertedbasis,providesforthepurchaseof407,542sharesofM&T

CommonStockat$55.76pershare.OnAugust21,2012,theU.S.Treasurycompleteditspublicofferingof

theoutstandingsharesofSeriesCPreferredStock.Followingthecompletionofthesepublicofferings,the

U.S.TreasurydoesnotholdanypreferredsharesofM&T.
ExecutiveandIncentiveCompensation
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankingagenciespursuanttotheFDIAprohibitexcessivecompensationas

anunsafeandunsoundpracticeanddescribecompensationasexcessivewhentheamountspaidare

unreasonableordisproportionatetotheservicesperformedbyanexecutiveofficer,employee,directoror

principalstockholder.InJune2010,theFederalReserveBoardissuedcomprehensiveguidanceonincentive

compensationpolicies(theﬁIncentiveCompensationGuidanceﬂ)intendedtoensurethattheincentive

compensationpoliciesofbankingorganizationsdonotunderminethesafetyandsoundnessofsuch

organizationsbyencouragingexcessiverisk-taking.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidance,whichcoversall

employeesthathavetheabilitytomateriallyaffecttheriskprofileofanorganization,eitherindividuallyoras

partofagroup,isbaseduponthekeyprinciplesthatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensation

arrangementsshould(i)provideincentivesthatdonotencouragerisk-takingbeyondtheorganization™sability

toeffectivelyidentifyandmanagerisks,(ii)becompatiblewitheffectiveinternalcontrolsandrisk

management,and(iii)besupportedbystrongcorporategovernance,includingactiveandeffectiveoversight

bytheorganization™sboardofdirectors.Thesethreeprinciplesareincorporatedintotheproposedjoint

compensationregulationsundertheDodd-FrankAct,discussedabove.Anydeficienciesincompensation

practicesthatareidentifiedmaybeincorporatedintotheorganization™ssupervisoryratings,whichcanaffect

itsabilitytomakeacquisitionsorperformotheractions.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidanceprovidesthat

enforcementactionsmaybetakenagainstabankingorganizationifitsincentivecompensationarrangements

orrelatedrisk-managementcontrolorgovernancepr
ocessesposearisktotheorganization™ssafetyand
soundnessandtheorganizationisnottakingprompt
andeffectivemeasurestocorrectthedeficiencies.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalbankregulatoryagenciesandtheSECtoestablishjoint
regulationsorguidelinesprohibitingincentive-basedpaymentarrangementsatspecifiedregulatedentities,

suchasM&TandM&TBank,havingatleast$1billionintotalassetsthatencourageinappropriaterisksby

providinganexecutiveofficer,employee,directororprincipalshareholderwithexcessivecompensation,

fees,orbenefitsorthatcouldleadtomaterialfinanciallosstotheentity.Inaddition,theseregulatorsmust

establishregulationsorguidelinesrequiringenhanceddisclosuretoregulatorsofincentive-based

compensationarrangements.TheagenciesproposedsuchregulationsinApril2011andinDecember2012,

theFederalReserveBoardannouncedthatit,alongwithotherfederalregulatoryagencies,wascontinuingto

workondevelopingfinalrulesregardingincentive-basedpaymentarrangements.Ifthefinalregulationsare

adoptedintheforminitiallyproposed,theywillimposelimitationsonthemannerinwhichM&Tmay

structurecompensationforitsexecutives.
ThescopeandcontentoftheU.S.bankingregulators™policiesonincentivecompensationare
continuingtodevelopandarelikelytocontinueevolvinginthefuture.Itcannotbedeterminedatthistime

whethercompliancewithsuchpolicieswilladverselyaffecttheabilityofM&Tanditssubsidiariestohire,

retainandmotivatetheirkeyemployees.
ResolutionPlanning
AsrequiredbytheDodd-FrankAct,theFederalReserveBoardandFDIChavejointlyissuedafinalrulethat

requirescertainorganizations,includingbankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsof$50billionor

more,toreportperiodicallytoregulatorsaresolutionplanfortheirrapidandorderlyresolutionintheevent

ofmaterialfinancialdistressorfailure.M&T™sresolutionplanmust,amongotherthings,ensurethatits

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiariesareadequatelyprotectedfromrisksarisingfromitsothersubsidiaries.

Thefinalrulesetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,includingrequiringastrategicanalysisofthe

plan™scomponents,adescriptionoftherangeofspecificactionsthecompanyproposestotakeinresolution,
17andadescriptionofthecompany™sorganizationalstructure,materialentities,interconnectionsand
interdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,amongotherelements.TheinitialplanofM&T

isdueonDecember31,2013.
Inaddition,theFDIChasissuedafinalrulethatrequiresinsureddepositoryinstitutionswith$50
billionormoreintotalassets,suchasM&TBank,tosubmittotheFDICperiodicplansforresolutioninthe

eventoftheinstitution™sfailure.Therulerequirestheseinsuredinstitutionstosubmitaresolutionplanthat

willenabletheFDIC,asreceiver,toresolvethebankinamannerthatensuresthatdepositorsreceiveaccess

totheirinsureddepositswithinonebusinessdayoftheinstitution™sfailure,maximizesthenet-present-value

returnfromthesaleordispositionofitsassets,andminimizestheamountofanylosstoberealizedbythe

institution™screditors.Thefinalrulealsosetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,includingrequiring

astrategicanalysisoftheplan™scomponents,adescriptionofthestrategiesforachievingtheleastcostly

resolution,andanalysesofthefinancialcompany™sorganization,materialentities,interconnectionsand

interdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,amongotherelements.TheinitialplanofM&T

BankisdueonDecember31,2013.
InsolvencyofanInsuredDepositoryInstitutionoraBankHoldingCompany
IftheFDICisappointedasconservatororreceiverforaninsureddepositoryinstitutionsuchasM&TBank

orWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,uponitsinsolvencyorincertainotherevents,theFDIChasthepower:
Štotransferanyofthedepositoryinstitution™sassetsandliabilitiestoanewobligor,includinganewly

formedﬁbridgeﬂbankwithouttheapprovalofthedepositoryinstitution™screditors;
Štoenforcethetermsofthedepositoryinstitution™scontractspursuanttotheirtermswithoutregard

toanyprovisionstriggeredbytheappointmentoftheFDICinthatcapacity;or
Štorepudiateordisaffirmanycontractorleasetowhichthedepositoryinstitutionisaparty,the

performanceofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtobeburdensomeandthedisaffirmanceor

repudiationofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtopromotetheorderlyadministrationofthe

depositoryinstitution.
Inaddition,underfederallaw,theclaimsofholdersofdomesticdepositliabilitiesandcertainclaims
foradministrativeexpensesagainstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverother

generalunsecuredclaimsagainstsuchaninstitution,includingclaimsofdebtholdersoftheinstitution,in

theﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.Asaresult,whetherornotthe

FDICeversoughttorepudiateanydebtobligationsofM&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,thedebt

holderswouldbetreateddifferentlyfrom,andcouldreceive,ifanything,substantiallylessthan,the

depositorsofthebank.TheDodd-FrankActcreatedanewresolutionregime(knownasﬁorderlyliquidation

authorityﬂ)forsystemicallyimportantnon-bankfinancialcompanies,includingbankholdingcompanies

andtheiraffiliates.Undertheorderlyliquidationauthority,theFDICmaybeappointedasreceiverforthe

systemicallyimportantinstitution,anditsfailednon-banksubsidiaries,forpurposesofliquidatingthe

entityif,amongotherconditions,itisdeterminedatthetimeoftheinstitution™sfailurethatitisindefault

orindangerofdefaultandthefailureposesarisktothestabilityoftheU.S.financialsystem.
IftheFDICisappointedasreceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthority,thenthepowersofthe
receiver,andtherightsandobligationsofcreditorsandotherpartieswhohavedealtwiththeinstitution,

wouldbedeterminedundertheDodd-FrankActprovisions,andnotundertheinsolvencylawthatwould

otherwiseapply.Thepowersofthereceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthoritywerebasedonthe

powersoftheFDICasreceiverfordepositoryinstitutionsundertheFDIA.However,theprovisions

governingtherightsofcreditorsundertheorderlyliquidationauthorityweremodifiedincertainrespectsto

reducedisparitieswiththetreatmentofcreditors™claimsundertheU.S.BankruptcyCodeascomparedto

thetreatmentofthoseclaimsunderthenewauthority.Nonetheless,substantialdifferencesintherightsof

creditorsexistasbetweenthesetworegimes,includingtherightoftheFDICtodisregardthestrictpriority

ofcreditorclaimsinsomecircumstances,theuseofanadministrativeclaimsproceduretodetermine

creditors™claims(asopposedtothejudicialprocedureutilizedinbankruptcyproceedings),andtherightof

theFDICtotransferclaimstoaﬁbridgeﬂentity.
TheorderlyliquidationauthorityprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActbecameeffectiveupon
enactment.However,anumberofrulemakingsarerequiredunderthetermsofDodd-Frank,andanumber

ofprovisionsofthenewauthorityrequireclarification.TheFDIChascompleteditsinitialphaseof

rulemakingundertheorderlyliquidationauthority,butadditionalrulesareunderconsideration.
18Anorderlyliquidationfundwillfundsuchliquidationproceedingsthroughborrowingsfromthe
TreasuryDepartmentandrisk-basedassessmentsmade,first,onentitiesthatreceivedmoreintheresolution

thantheywouldhavereceivedinliquidationtotheextentofsuchexcess,andsecond,ifnecessary,onbank

holdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T.Ifanorderly

liquidationistriggered,M&Tcouldfaceassessmentsfortheorderlyliquidationfund.
DepositorPreference
Underfederallaw,depositorsandcertainclaimsforadministrativeexpensesandemployeecompensation

againstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverothergeneralunsecuredclaims

againstsuchaninstitutionintheﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.If

aninsureddepositoryinstitutionfails,insuredanduninsureddepositors,alongwiththeFDIC,willhave

priorityinpaymentaheadofunsecured,non-depositcreditors,includingdepositorswhosedepositsare

payableonlyoutsideoftheUnitedStatesandtheparentBHC,withrespecttoanyextensionsofcreditthey

havemadetosuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.
FinancialPrivacy
Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveadoptedrulesthatlimittheabilityofbanksandotherfinancial

institutionstodisclosenon-publicinformationaboutconsumerstonon-affiliatedthirdparties.These

limitationsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,allowconsumers

topreventdisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtoanon-affiliatedthirdparty.Theseregulationsaffect

howconsumerinformationistransmittedthroughdiversifiedfinancialcompaniesandconveyedtooutside

vendors.Inaddition,consumersmayalsopreventdisclosureofcertaininformationamongaffiliated

companiesthatisassembledorusedtodetermineeligibilityforaproductorservice,suchasthatshownon

consumercreditreportsandassetandincomeinformationfromapplications.Consumersalsohavethe

optiontodirectbanksandotherfinancialinstitutionsnottoshareinformationabouttransactionsand

experienceswithaffiliatedcompaniesforthepurposeofmarketingproductsorservices.
ConsumerProtectionLaws
Inconnectionwiththeirrespectivelendingandleasingactivities,M&TBank,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.and

certainoftheirsubsidiaries,areeachsubjecttoanumberoffederalandstatelawsdesignedtoprotect

borrowersandpromotelendingtovarioussectorsoftheeconomy.TheselawsincludetheEqualCredit

OpportunityAct,theFairCreditReportingAct,theFairandAccurateCreditTransactionsAct,theTruthin

LendingAct,theHomeMortgageDisclosureAct,andtheRealEstateSettlementProceduresAct,and

variousstatelawcounterparts.
Inaddition,federallawcurrentlycontainsextensivecustomerprivacyprotectionprovisions.Under
theseprovisions,afinancialinstitutionmustprovidetoitscustomers,attheinceptionofthecustomer

relationshipandannuallythereafter,theinstitution™spoliciesandproceduresregardingthehandlingof

customers™nonpublicpersonalfinancialinformation.Theseprovisionsalsoprovidethat,exceptforcertain

limitedexceptions,afinancialinstitutionmaynotprovidesuchpersonalinformationtounaffiliatedthird

partiesunlesstheinstitutiondisclosestothecustomerthatsuchinformationmaybesoprovidedandthe

customerisgiventheopportunitytooptoutofsuchdisclosure.Federallawmakesitacriminaloffense,

exceptinlimitedcircumstances,toobtainorattempttoobtaincustomerinformationofafinancialnature

byfraudulentordeceptivemeans.
SinceJuly1,2010,afederalbankingruleundertheElectronicFundTransferActprohibitsfinancial
institutionsfromchargingconsumersfeesforpayingoverdraftsonautomatedtellermachines(ﬁATMﬂ)and

one-timedebitcardtransactions,unlessaconsumerconsents,oroptsin,totheoverdraftserviceforthose

typeoftransactions.Ifaconsumerdoesnotoptin,anyATMtransactionordebitthatoverdrawsthe

consumer™saccountwillbedenied.Overdraftsonthepaymentofchecksandregularelectronicbill

paymentsarenotcoveredbythisnewrule.Beforeoptingin,theconsumermustbeprovidedanoticethat

explainsthefinancialinstitution™soverdraftservices,includingthefeesassociatedwiththeservice,andthe

consumer™schoices.Financialinstitutionsmustprovideconsumerswhodonotoptinwiththesame

accountterms,conditionsandfeatures(includingpricing)thattheyprovidetoconsumerswhodooptin.
19ConsumerFinancialProtectionBureauSupervision
InJuly2011,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.werenotifiedthattheywillbesupervisedbytheCFPB

forcertainconsumerprotectionpurposes.TheCFPBwillfocuson:
Šriskstoconsumersandcompliancewiththefederalconsumerfinanciallaws,whenitevaluatesthe

policiesandpracticesofafinancialinstitution;
Šthemarketsinwhichfirmsoperateandriskstoconsumersposedbyactivitiesinthosemarkets;
Šdepositoryinstitutionsthatofferawidevarietyofconsumerfinancialproductsandservices;
Šdepositoryinstitutionswithamorespecializedfocus;and
Šnon-depositorycompaniesthatofferoneormoreconsumerfinancialproductsorservices.
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002
TheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002implementedabroadrangeofcorporategovernance,accountingand

reportingmeasuresforcompaniesthathavesecuritiesregisteredundertheExchangeAct,including

publicly-heldbankholdingcompaniessuchasM&T.Specifically,theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002andthe

variousregulationspromulgatedthereunder,established,amongotherthings:(i)requirementsforaudit

committees,includingindependence,expertise,andresponsibilities;(ii)responsibilitiesregardingfinancial

statementsfortheChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerofthereportingcompany;(iii)the

forfeitureofbonusesorotherincentive-basedcompensationandprofitsfromthesaleofthereporting

company™ssecuritiesbytheChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerinthetwelve-monthperiod

followingtheinitialpublicationofanyfinancialstatementsthatlaterrequirerestatement;(iv)thecreation

ofanindependentaccountingoversightboard;(v)standardsforauditorsandregulationofaudits,including

independenceprovisionsthatrestrictnon-auditservicesthataccountantsmayprovidetotheirauditclients;

(vi)disclosureandreportingobligationsforthereportingcompanyandtheirdirectorsandexecutive

officers,includingacceleratedreportingofstocktransactionsandaprohibitionontradingduringpension

blackoutperiods;(vii)aprohibitiononpersonalloanstodirectorsandofficers,exceptcertainloansmade

byinsuredfinancialinstitutionsonnonpreferentialtermsandincompliancewithotherbankregulatory

requirements;and(viii)arangeofcivilandcriminalpenaltiesforfraudandotherviolationsofthesecurities

laws.CommunityReinvestmentAct
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubjecttotheprovisionsoftheCRA.Underthetermsofthe

CRA,eachappropriatefederalbankregulatoryagencyisrequired,inconnectionwithitsexaminationofa

bank,toassesssuchbank™srecordinassessingandmeetingthecreditneedsofthecommunitiesservedby

thatbank,includinglow-andmoderate-incomeneighborhoods.Duringtheseexaminations,theregulatory

agencyratessuchbank™scompliancewiththeCRAasﬁOutstanding,ﬂﬁSatisfactory,ﬂﬁNeedstoImproveﬂor

ﬁSubstantialNoncompliance.ﬂTheregulatoryagency™sassessmentoftheinstitution™srecordispartofthe

regulatoryagency™sconsiderationofapplicationstoacquire,mergeorconsolidatewithanotherbanking

institutionoritsholdingcompany,ortoopenorrelocateabranchoffice.Currently,M&TBankhasaCRA

ratingofﬁOutstandingﬂandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasaCRAratingofﬁSatisfactory.ﬂInthecaseofa

BHCapplyingforapprovaltoacquireabankorBHC,theFederalReserveBoardwillassesstherecordof

eachsubsidiarybankoftheapplicantBHCinconsideringtheapplication,andsuchrecordsmaybethebasis

fordenyingtheapplication.TheBankingLawcontainsprovisionssimilartotheCRAwhichareapplicable

toNewYork-charteredbanks.Currently,M&TBankhasaCRAratingofﬁOutstandingﬂasdeterminedby

theNewYorkStateDepartmentofFinancialServices.
USAPatriotAct
TheUnitingandStrengtheningAmericabyProvidingAppropriateToolsRequiredtoInterceptand

ObstructTerrorismActof2001(theﬁUSAPatriotActﬂ)imposesobligationsonU.S.financialinstitutions,

includingbanksandbroker/dealersubsidiaries,toimplementandmaintainappropriatepolicies,procedures

andcontrolswhicharereasonablydesignedtoprevent,detectandreportinstancesofmoneylaunderingand

thefinancingofterrorismandtoverifytheidentityoftheircustomers.Inaddition,provisionsoftheUSA

PatriotActrequirethefederalfinancialinstitutionregulatoryagenciestoconsidertheeffectivenessofa

financialinstitution™santi-moneylaunderingactivitieswhenreviewingbankmergersandBHCacquisitions.

Failureofafinancialinstitutiontomaintainandimplementadequateprogramstocombatmoney

launderingandterroristfinancingcouldhaveseriouslegalandreputationalconsequencesforthe

institution.TheRegistrantanditsimpactedsubsidiarieshaveapprovedpoliciesandproceduresthatare

believedtobecompliantwiththeUSAPatriotAct.
20OfficeofForeignAssetsControlRegulation
TheUnitedStateshasimposedeconomicsanctionsthataffecttransactionswithdesignatedforeign

countries,nationalsandothers.ThesearetypicallyknownastheﬁOFACﬂrulesbasedontheir

administrationbytheU.S.TreasuryDepartmentOfficeofForeignAssetsControl(ﬁOFACﬂ).TheOFAC-

administeredsanctionstargetingcountriestakemanydifferentforms.Generally,however,theycontainone

ormoreofthefollowingelements:(i)restrictionsontradewithorinvestmentinasanctionedcountry,

includingprohibitionsagainstdirectorindirectimportsfromandexportstoasanctionedcountryand

prohibitionsonﬁU.S.personsﬂengaginginfinancialtransactionsrelatingtomakinginvestmentsin,or

providinginvestment-relatedadviceorassistanceto,asanctionedcountry;and(ii)ablockingofassetsin

whichthegovernmentorspeciallydesignatednationalsofthesanctionedcountryhaveaninterest,by

prohibitingtransfersofpropertysubjecttoU.S.jurisdiction(includingpropertyinthepossessionorcontrol

ofU.S.persons).Blockedassets(e.g.propertyandbankdeposits)cannotbepaidout,withdrawn,setoffor

transferredinanymannerwithoutalicensefromOFAC.Failuretocomplywiththesesanctionscouldhave

seriouslegalandreputationalconsequences.
RegulationofInsurersandInsuranceBrokers
TheCompany™soperationsintheareasofinsurancebrokerageandreinsuranceofcreditlifeinsuranceare

subjecttoregulationandsupervisionbyvariousstateinsuranceregulatoryauthorities.Althoughthescope

ofregulationandformofsupervisionmayvaryfromstatetostate,insurancelawsgenerallygrantbroad

discretiontoregulatoryauthoritiesinadoptingregulationsandsupervisingregulatedactivities.This

supervisiongenerallyincludesthelicensingofinsurancebrokersandagentsandtheregulationofthe

handlingofcustomerfundsheldinafiduciarycapacity.CertainofM&T™sinsurancecompanysubsidiaries

aresubjecttoextensiveregulatorysupervisionandtoinsurancelawsandregulationsrequiring,amongother

things,maintenanceofcapital,recordkeeping,reportingandexaminations.
GovernmentalPolicies
TheearningsoftheCompanyaresignificantlyaffectedbythemonetaryandfiscalpoliciesofgovernmental

authorities,includingtheFederalReserveBoard.Amongtheinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyusedbythe

FederalReserveBoardtoimplementtheseobjectivesareopen-marketoperationsinU.S.Government

securitiesandfederalfunds,changesinthediscountrateonmemberbankborrowingsandchangesin

reserverequirementsagainstmemberbankdeposits.Theseinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyareusedin

varyingcombinationstoinfluencetheoveralllevelofbankloans,investmentsanddeposits,andtheinterest

rateschargedonloansandpaidfordeposits.TheFederalReserveBoardfrequentlyusestheseinstrumentsof

monetarypolicy,especiallyitsopen-marketoperationsandthediscountrate,toinfluencethelevelof

interestratesandtoaffectthestrengthoftheeconomy,thelevelofinflationorthepriceofthedollarin

foreignexchangemarkets.ThemonetarypoliciesoftheFederalReserveBoardhavehadasignificanteffect

ontheoperatingresultsofbankinginstitutionsinthepastandareexpectedtocontinuetodosointhe

future.Itisnotpossibletopredictthenatureoffuturechangesinmonetaryandfiscalpolicies,ortheeffect

whichtheymayhaveontheCompany™sbusinessandearnings.
CompetitionTheCompanycompetesinofferingcommercialandpersonalfinancialserviceswithotherbanking

institutionsandwithfirmsinanumberofotherindustries,suchasthriftinstitutions,creditunions,

personalloancompanies,salesfinancecompanies,leasingcompanies,securitiesfirmsandinsurance

companies.Furthermore,diversifiedfinancialservicescompaniesareabletoofferacombinationofthese

servicestotheircustomersonanationwidebasis.TheCompany™soperationsaresignificantlyimpactedby

stateandfederalregulationsapplicabletothebankingindustry.Moreover,theprovisionsoftheGramm-

Leach-BlileyActof1999,theInterstateBankingActandtheBankingLawhaveallowedforincreased

competitionamongdiversifiedfinancialservicesproviders.
OtherLegislativeandRegulatoryInitiatives
ProposalsmaybeintroducedintheUnitedStatesCongressandstatelegislatures,aswellasbyregulatory

agencies.Suchinitiativesmayincludeproposalstoexpandorcontractthepowersofbankholding

companiesanddepositoryinstitutionsorproposalstosubstantiallychangethefinancialinstitution

regulatorysystem.Suchlegislationcouldchangebankingstatutesandtheoperatingenvironmentofthe

Registrantinsubstantialandunpredictableways.Ifenacted,suchlegislationcouldincreaseordecreasethe
21costofdoingbusiness,limitorexpandpermissibleactivitiesoraffectthecompetitivebalanceamongbanks,
savingsassociations,creditunions,andotherfinancialinstitutions.M&Tcannotpredictwhetheranysuch

legislationwillbeenacted,and,ifenacted,theeffectthatit,oranyimplementingregulations,wouldhaveon

thefinancialconditionorresultsofoperationsoftheRegistrant.Achangeinstatutes,regulationsor

regulatorypoliciesapplicabletoM&Toranyofitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialeffectonthebusiness

oftheRegistrant.
OtherInformation
ThroughalinkontheInvestorRelationssectionofM&T™swebsiteatwww.mtb.com,copiesofM&T™s

AnnualReportsonForm10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-QandCurrentReportsonForm8-K,and

amendmentstothosereportsfiledorfurnishedpursuanttoSection13(a)or15(d)oftheExchangeAct,are

madeavailable,freeofcharge,assoonasreasonablypracticableafterelectronicallyfilingsuchmaterialwith,

orfurnishingitto,theSEC.Copiesofsuchreportsandotherinformationarealsoavailableatnochargeto

anypersonwhorequeststhemoratwww.sec.gov.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBank

Corporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,13thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399

(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
CorporateGovernance
M&T™sCorporateGovernanceStandardsandthefollowingcorporategovernancedocumentsarealso

availableonM&T™swebsiteattheInvestorRelationslink:DisclosureandRegulationFDPolicy;Executive

CommitteeCharter;Nomination,CompensationandGovernanceCommitteeCharter;AuditandRisk

CommitteeCharter;FinancialReportingandDisclosureControlsandProceduresPolicy;CodeofEthicsfor

CEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers;CodeofBusinessConductandEthics;andEmployeeComplaint

ProceduresforAccountingandAuditingMatters.Copiesofsuchgovernancedocumentsarealsoavailable,

freeofcharge,toanypersonwhorequeststhem.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBankCorporation,

ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,13thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399(Telephone:

(716)842-5138).
StatisticalDisclosurePursuanttoGuide3
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.

Additionalinformationisincludedinthefollowingtables.
22Table1
SELECTEDCONSOLIDATEDYEAR-ENDBALANCES
20122011201020092008(Inthousands)
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
......$
129,945$154,960$101,222$133,335$10,284
Federalfundssold
...................3,0002,85025,00020,11921,347
Resellagreements
...................ŠŠŠŠ90,000Tradingaccount
....................488,966561,834523,834386,984617,821
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies...4,007,7255,200,4894,177,7834,006,9683,909,493

Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions...................203,004228,949251,544266,748135,585
Other...........................1,863,6322,243,7162,721,2133,506,8933,874,129
Totalinvestmentsecurities
.......6,074,3617,673,1547,150,5407,780,6097,919,207
Loansandleases
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....17,973,14015,952,10513,645,60013,790,73714,563,091

RealestateŠconstruction
.........3,772,4134,203,3244,332,6184,726,5704,568,368
RealestateŠmortgage
............33,494,35928,202,21722,854,16021,747,53319,224,003
Consumer.......................11,550,27412,020,22911,483,56412,041,61711,004,275
Totalloansandleases
............66,790,18660,377,87552,315,94252,306,45749,359,737
Unearneddiscount
................(219,229)(281,870)(325,560)(369,771)(359,274)
Loansandleases,netofunearned
discount....................66,570,95760,096,00551,990,38251,936,68649,000,463
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........(925,860)(908,290)(902,941)(878,022)(787,904)
Loansandleases,net
............65,645,09759,187,71551,087,44151,058,66448,212,559
Goodwill..........................3,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,192,128
Coredepositandotherintangible
assets...........................115,763176,394125,917182,418183,496
Realestateandotherassetsowned
.....104,279156,592220,04994,60499,617
Totalassets
........................83,008,80377,924,28768,021,26368,880,39965,815,757
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.........24,240,80220,017,88314,557,56813,794,6368,856,114
NOWaccounts
.....................1,979,6191,912,2261,393,3491,396,4711,141,308
Savingsdeposits
....................33,783,94731,001,08326,431,28123,676,79819,488,918
Timedeposits
......................4,562,3666,107,5305,817,1707,531,4959,046,937
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......1,044,519355,9271,605,9161,050,4384,047,986
Totaldeposits
..................65,611,25359,394,64949,805,28447,449,83842,581,263
Short-termborrowings
..............1,074,482782,082947,4322,442,5823,009,735
Long-termborrowings
...............4,607,7586,686,2267,840,15110,240,01612,075,149
Totalliabilities
.....................72,806,21068,653,07859,663,56861,127,49259,031,026
Shareholders™equity
.................10,202,5939,271,2098,357,6957,752,9076,784,731
Table2
SHAREHOLDERS,EMPLOYEESANDOFFICES
NumberatYear-End
20122011201020092008Shareholders.....................................15,62315,95912,77313,20711,197
Employees.......................................14,94315,66613,36514,22613,620
Offices..........................................799849778832725
23Table3
CONSOLIDATEDEARNINGS
20122011201020092008(Inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
...................$2,704,156$2,522,567$2,394,082$2,326,748$2,825,587
Depositsatbanks
..............................1,2212,9348834109
Federalfundssold
.............................21574263254
Resellagreements
..............................Š13240466
1,817Tradingaccount
...............................1,1261,1986155341,469
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
................................227,116256,057324,695389,268438,409
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
.....................8,0459,1429,8698,4849,946
Totalinterestincome
.........................2,941,6852,792,0872,729,7952,725,1973,277,591
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
................................1,3431,1458501,1222,894
Savingsdeposits
...............................68,01184,31485,226112,550248,083
Timedeposits
.................................46,10271,014100,241206,220330,389
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................1,1309621,3682,39184,483
Short-termborrowings
.........................1,2861,0303,0067,129142,627
Long-termborrowings
..........................225,297243,866271,578340,037529,319
Totalinterestexpense
.........................343,169402,331462,269669,4491,337,795
Netinterestincome
............................2,598,5162,389,7562,267,5262,055,7481,939,796
Provisionforcreditlosses
.......................204,000270,000368,000604,000412,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses...2,394,5162,119,7561,899,5261,451,7481,527,796
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
......................349,064166,021184,625207,561156,012
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
...............446,698455,095478,133469,195430,532
Trustincome
.................................471,852332,385122,613128,568156,149
Brokerageservicesincome
.......................59,05956,47049,66957,61164,186
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
........35,63427,22427,28623,12517,630
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
................9
150,1872,7701,16534,471
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)
losses......................................(32,067)(72,915)(115,947)(264,363)(182,222)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinother
comprehensiveincome(beforetaxes)
............(15,755)(4,120)29,666126,066Š
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
............(47,822)(77,035)(86,281)(138,297)(182,222)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC...(21,511)(24,231)(25,768)(25,898)(37,453)

Otherrevenuesfromoperations
..................374,287496,796355,053325,076299,674
Totalotherincome
...........................1,667,2701,582,9121,108,1001,048,106938,979
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
....................1,314,5401,203,993999,7091,001,873957,086
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
...................257,551249,514216,064211,391188,845
Printing,postageandsupplies
....................41,92940,91733,84738,21635,860
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets......................................60,63161,61758,10364,25566,646
FDICassessments
..............................101,110100,23079,32496,5196,689
Othercostsofoperations
........................733,499821,797527,790568,309471,870
Totalotherexpense
..........................2,509,2602,478,0681,914,8371,980,5631,726,996
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.....................1,552,5261,224,6001,092,789519,291739,779
Incometaxes
..................................523,028365,121356,628139,400183,892
Netincome
...................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161$379,891$555,887
Dividendsdeclared
Common..................................$
357,862$350,196$335,502$326,617$308,501
Preferred...................................53,45048,20340,22531,946Š
24Table4
COMMONSHAREHOLDERDATA
20122011201020092008Pershare
Netincome
Basic........................................$
7.57$6.37$5.72$2.90$5.04
Diluted......................................7.546.355.692.895.01
Cashdividendsdeclared
..........................2.802.802.802.802.80
Commonshareholders™equityatyear-end
...........72.7366.8263.5459.3156.29
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equityatyear-end
....44.6137.7933.2628.2725.94
Dividendpayoutratio
............................36.98%44.15%48.98%97.36%55.62%
Table5
CHANGESININTERESTINCOMEANDEXPENSE(a)
2012Comparedwith2011
2011Comparedwith2010
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
VolumeRateVolumeRate(Increase(decrease)inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
..............$182,621286,590(103,969)$130,831221,381(90,550)
Depositsatbanks
.........................(1,713)(1,499)(214)2,8462,444402
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresell
securities..............................(168)(346)178(257)(76)(181)
Tradingaccount
..........................(17)30(47)6224618
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.........(4,839)13,157(17,996)(36,338)(12,927)(23,411)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions.........................(2,066)(1,312)(754)(1,403)(1,244)(159)
Other.................................(23,705)(16,104)(7,601)(32,156)(23,759)(8,397)
Totalinterestincome
....................$150,113$64,145
Interestexpense
Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
.........................$19813464$29523065
Savingsdeposits
........................(16,303)8,292(24,595)(912)13,025(13,937)
Timedeposits
..........................(24,912)(11,097)(13,815)(29,227)(1,558)(27,669)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
..........168
(256)424(406)(228)(178)
Short-termborrowings
....................25615241
(1,976)(1,361)(615)
Long-termborrowings
.....................(18,569)(54,973)36,404(27,712)(72,152)44,440
Totalinterestexpense
....................$
(59,162)$(59,938)
(a)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Theapportionmentofchangesresultingfromthe
combinedeffectofbothvolumeandratewasbasedontheseparatelydeterminedvolumeandratechanges.
Item1A.
RiskFactors.
M&Tanditssubsidiariescouldbeadverselyimpactedbyvariousrisksanduncertaintieswhicharedifficult
topredict.Asafinancialinstitution,theCompanyhassignificantexposuretomarketrisk,including

interest-raterisk,liquidityriskandcreditrisk,amongothers.Adverseexperiencewiththeseorotherrisks

couldhaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellason

thevalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&T™scommonstock,inparticular.
25WeaknessintheeconomyhasadverselyaffectedtheCompanyandmaycontinuetoadverselyaffectthe
Company.
Fromlate-2007throughmid-2009,theU.S.economywasinrecession.Althoughtherehasbeengradual
improvementintheU.S.economysincethen,economicgrowthhasbeenslowanduneven.Thehousing

marketremainsweakandunemploymentlevelsarehigh.Localgovernmentsandsomebusinessesarein

financialdifficultyduetolowerconsumerspendingandthelackofliquidityinthecreditmarkets.Aslowing

ofimprovementorareturntodeterioratingbusinessandeconomicconditionscouldhaveoneormoreof

thefollowingadverseeffectsontheCompany™sbusiness:
ŠAdecreaseinthedemandforloansandotherproductsandservicesofferedbytheCompany.
ŠAdecreaseinnetinterestincomederivedfromtheCompany™slendinganddepositgathering

activities.ŠAdecreaseinthevalueoftheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities,loansheldforsaleorotherassets

securedbyresidentialorcommercialrealestate.
ŠOther-than-temporaryimpairmentofinvestmentsecuritiesintheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities

portfolio.ŠAdecreaseinfeesfromtheCompany™sbrokerageandtrustbusinessesassociatedwithdeclinesor

lackofgrowthinstockmarketprices.
ŠPotentialhigherFDICassessmentsduetotheDIFfallingbelowminimumrequiredlevels.
ŠAnimpairmentofcertainintangibleassets,suchasgoodwill.
ŠAnincreaseinthenumberofcustomersandcounterpartieswhobecomedelinquent,fileforprotection

underbankruptcylawsordefaultontheirloansorotherobligationstotheCompany.Anincreasein

thenumberofdelinquencies,bankruptciesordefaultscouldresultinhigherlevelsofnonperforming

assets,netcharge-offs,provisionforcreditlossesandvaluationadjustmentsonloansheldforsale.
TheCompany™sbusinessandfinancialperformanceisimpactedsignificantlybymarketinterestratesand
movementsinthoserates.Themonetary,taxandotherpoliciesofgovernmentalagencies,includingtheFederal

Reserve,haveasignificantimpactoninterestratesandoverallfinancialmarketperformanceoverwhichM&T

hasnocontrolandwhichM&Tmaynotbeabletoanticipateadequately
.AsaresultofthehighpercentageoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthatareintheformofinterest-
bearingorinterest-relatedinstruments,changesininterestrates,intheshapeoftheyieldcurveorinspreads

betweendifferentmarketinterestrates,canhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sbusinessand

profitabilityandthevalueoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilities.Forexample:
ŠChangesininterestratesorinterestratespreadscanaffectthedifferencebetweentheinterestthatthe

CompanyearnsonassetsandtheinterestthattheCompanypaysonliabilities,whichimpactsthe

Company™soverallnetinterestincomeandprofitability.
ŠSuchchangescanaffecttheabilityofborrowerstomeetobligationsundervariableoradjustablerate

loansandotherdebtinstruments,andcan,inturn,affecttheCompany™slossratesonthoseassets.
ŠSuchchangesmaydecreasethedemandforinterestratebasedproductsandservices,includingloans

anddeposits.
ŠSuchchangescanalsoaffecttheCompany™sabilitytohedgevariousformsofmarketandinterestrate

riskandmaydecreasetheprofitabilityorprotectionorincreasetheriskorcostassociatedwithsuch

hedges.ŠMovementsininterestratesalsoaffectmortgageprepaymentspeedsandcouldresultintheimpairment

ofcapitalizedmortgageservicingassets,reducethevalueofloansheldforsaleandincreasethevolatility

ofmortgagebankingrevenues,potentiallyadverselyaffectingtheCompany™sresultsofoperations.
Themonetary,taxandotherpoliciesofthegovernmentanditsagencies,includingtheFederal
Reserve,haveasignificantimpactoninterestratesandoverallfinancialmarketperformance.These

governmentalpoliciescanthusaffecttheactivitiesandresultsofoperationsofbankingcompaniessuchas

theCompany.AnimportantfunctionoftheFederalReserveistoregulatethenationalsupplyofbankcredit

andcertaininterestrates.TheactionsoftheFederalReserveinfluencetheratesofinterestthattheCompany

chargesonloansandthattheCompanypaysonborrowingsandinterest-bearingdepositsandcanalsoaffect

thevalueoftheCompany™son-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.Also,duetothe

impactonratesforshort-termfunding,theFederalReserve™spoliciesalsoinfluence,toasignificantextent,

theCompany™scostofsuchfunding.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfrom

variousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultinchallengestothetaxreturn

treatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsand
26judgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshavebeenappropriate.Shouldtaxlawschangeorthe
taxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™sassumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustments

requiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.M&Tcannotpredictthe

natureortimingoffuturechangesinmonetary,taxandotherpoliciesortheeffectthattheymayhaveon

theCompany™sbusinessactivities,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
TheCompany™sbusinessandperformanceisvulnerabletotheimpactofvolatilityindebtandequitymarkets.

AsmostoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesarefinancialinnature,theCompany™sperformancetendsto
besensitivetotheperformanceofthefinancialmarkets.TurmoilandvolatilityinU.S.andglobalfinancial

markets,suchasthatexperiencedduringtherecentfinancialcrisis,canbeamajorcontributoryfactorto

overallweakeconomicconditions,leadingtosomeoftherisksdiscussedherein,includingtheimpaired

abilityofborrowersandothercounterpartiestomeetobligationstotheCompany.Financialmarket

volatilityalsocanhavesomeofthefollowingadverseeffectsontheCompanyanditsbusiness,including

adverselyaffectingtheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations:
ŠItcanaffectthevalueorliquidityoftheCompany™son-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetfinancial

instruments.ŠItcanaffectthevalueofcapitalizedservicingassets.
ŠItcanaffectM&T™sabilitytoaccesscapitalmarketstoraisefunds.Inabilitytoaccesscapitalmarkets

ifneeded,atcosteffectiverates,couldadverselyaffecttheCompany™sliquidityandresultsof

operations.ŠItcanaffectthevalueoftheassetsthattheCompanymanagesorotherwiseadministersorservices

forothers.AlthoughtheCompanyisnotdirectlyimpactedbychangesinthevalueofsuchassets,

decreasesinthevalueofthoseassetswouldaffectrelatedfeeincomeandcouldresultindecreased

demandfortheCompany™sservices.
ŠIngeneral,itcanimpactthenature,profitabilityorriskprofileofthefinancialtransactionsinwhich

theCompanyengages.
Volatilityinthemarketsforrealestateandotherassetscommonlysecuringfinancialproductshas
beenandmaycontinuetobeasignificantcontributortooverallvolatilityinfinancialmarkets.
TheCompany™sregionalconcentrationsexposeittoadverseeconomicconditionsinitsprimaryretailbanking
officefootprint.
AlthoughmanyoftheCompany™sbusinessesarenationalinscope,itscorebankingbusinessisconcentrated
withintheCompany™sretailbankingofficenetworkfootprint,locatedprincipallyinNewYork,

Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia.Therefore,the

Companyis,orinthefuturemaybe,particularlyvulnerabletoadversechangesineconomicconditionsin

theNortheastandMid-Atlanticregions.
RisksRelatingtotheRegulatoryEnvironment
TheCompanyissubjecttoextensivegovernmentregulationandsupervisionandthisregulatoryenvironmentis
beingsignificantlyimpactedbythefinancialregulatoryreforminitiativesintheUnitedStates,includingthe

Dodd-FrankActandrelatedregulations.
TheCompanyissubjecttoextensivefederalandstateregulationandsupervision.Bankingregulationsare
primarilyintendedtoprotectdepositors™funds,federaldepositinsurancefundsandthefinancialsystemasa

whole,notsecurityholders.TheseregulationsaffecttheCompany™slendingpractices,capitalstructure,

investmentpractices,dividendpolicyandgrowth,amongotherthings.Failuretocomplywithlaws,

regulationsorpoliciescouldresultinsanctionsbyregulatoryagencies,civilmoneypenaltiesand/or

reputationdamage,whichcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sbusiness,financial

conditionandresultsofoperations.
TheUnitedStatesgovernmentandothershaverecentlyundertakenmajorreformsoftheregulatory
oversightstructureofthefinancialservicesindustry.M&Texpectstofaceincreasedregulationofits

industryasaresultofcurrentandpossiblefutureinitiatives.M&Talsoexpectsmoreintensescrutinyinthe

examinationprocessandmoreaggressiveenforcementofregulationsonboththefederalandstatelevels.

CompliancewiththesenewregulationsandsupervisoryinitiativeswilllikelyincreasetheCompany™scosts,

reduceitsrevenueandmaylimititsabilitytopursuecertaindesirablebusinessopportunities.
27ManypartsoftheDodd-FrankActarenowineffect,whileothersdependonrulesthatareinan
implementationstagelikelytocontinueforseveralyears.Thelawrequiresthatregulators,someofwhichare

newregulatorybodiescreatedbytheDodd-FrankAct,draft,reviewandapprovehundredsofimplementing

regulationsandconductnumerousstudiesthatarelikelytoleadtomoreregulations.Assuch,theultimate

impactoftheDodd-FrankActontheCompanycurrentlycannotbefullypredicted.Formoreinformation

abouttheDodd-FrankAct,seeﬁRecentDevelopmentsﬂunderPartI,ItemIﬁBusinessﬂandﬁRecent

LegislativeDevelopmentsﬂunderPartII,Item7ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancial

ConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂReforms,bothundertheDodd-FrankActandotherwise,willhavea

significanteffectontheentirefinancialservicesindustry.Althoughitisdifficulttopredictthemagnitude

andextentoftheseeffects,M&TbelievescompliancewiththeDodd-FrankActanditsimplementing

regulationsandotherinitiativeswilllikelynegativelyimpactrevenueandincreasethecostofdoingbusiness,

bothintermsoftransitionexpensesandonanongoingbasis,andmayalsolimitM&T™sabilitytopursue

certaindesirablebusinessopportunities.Anynewregulatoryrequirementsorchangestoexisting

requirementscouldrequirechangestotheCompany™sbusinesses,resultinincreasedcompliancecostsand

affecttheprofitabilityofsuchbusinesses.Additionally,reformcouldaffectthebehaviorsofthirdpartiesthat

theCompanydealswithinthecourseofitsbusiness,suchasratingagencies,insurancecompaniesand

investors.Heightenedregulatorypractices,requirementsorexpectationsresultingfromtheDodd-FrankAct

andtherulespromulgatedthereundercouldaffecttheCompanyinsubstantialandunpredictableways,and,

inturn,couldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sbusiness,financialconditionandresultsof

operations.CapitalrequirementsimposedbytheDodd-FrankAct,togetherwithnewcapitalandliquiditystandards
developedthroughtheBaselCommitteeandadoptedbytheU.S.bankingregulators,willresultinbanksand

bankholdingcompaniesneedingtomaintainmoreandhigherqualitycapitalandgreaterliquiditythanhas

historicallybeenthecase.
Newandevolvingcapitalstandards,bothasaresultoftheDodd-FrankActandimplementationintheU.S.
ofnewcapitalstandardsadoptedbytheBaselCommittee,includingtheso-calledﬁBaselIIIﬂcapitalaccord,

willhaveasignificanteffectonbanksandbankholdingcompanies,includingM&T.BaselIII,when

implementedbytheU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesasproposedinajointnoticeofproposedrulemakingin

June2012andfullyphased-in,willrequirebankholdingcompaniesandtheirbanksubsidiariestomaintain

substantiallymorecapital,withagreateremphasisoncommonequity.Foradditionalinformation,see

ﬁCapitalRequirementsﬂunderPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness.ﬂBecauseimplementationofthenewBaselIII

capitalandliquiditystandardsintheU.S.,aswellasanyadditionalheightenedcapitalorliquiditystandards

thatmaybeestablishedbytheFederalReserveundertheDodd-FrankAct,remainsubjecttorulemakingin

theU.S.and,inmanycases,toextendedobservationandphase-inperiods,thefulleffectofthesestandards

onM&T™sregulatorycapitalisuncertainatthistime.
Theneedtomaintainmoreandhigherqualitycapital,aswellasgreaterliquidity,goingforwardthan
historicallyhasbeenrequired,andgenerallyincreasedregulatoryscrutinywithrespecttocapitallevels,

couldlimittheCompany™sbusinessactivities,includinglending,anditsabilitytoexpand,eitherorganically

orthroughacquisitions.ItcouldalsoresultinM&Tbeingrequiredtotakestepstoincreaseitsregulatory

capitalthatmaybedilutivetoshareholdersorlimititsabilitytopaydividendsorotherwisereturncapitalto

shareholders,orsellorrefrainfromacquiringassets,thecapitalrequirementsforwhicharenotjustifiedby

theassets™underlyingrisks.Inaddition,thenewliquiditystandardscouldrequiretheCompanytoincrease

itsholdingsofunencumberedhighlyliquidshort-terminvestments,therebyreducingtheCompany™sability

toinvestinlonger-termassetsevenifdeemedmoredesirablefromabalancesheetmanagementperspective.

Moreover,althoughthesenewrequirementsarebeingphasedinovertime,U.S.federalbankingagencies

havebeentakingintoaccountexpectationsregardingtheabilityofbankstomeetthesenewrequirements,

includingunderstressedconditions,inapprovingactionsthatrepresentusesofcapital,suchasdividend

increases,sharerepurchasesandacquisitions.
RisksRelatingtotheCompany™sBusiness
DeterioratingcreditqualitycouldadverselyimpacttheCompany.

Asalender,theCompanyisexposedtotheriskthatcustomerswillbeunabletorepaytheirloansin
accordancewiththetermsoftheagreements,andthatanycollateralsecuringtheloansmaybeinsufficient

toassurefullrepayment.Creditlossesareinherentinthebusinessofmakingloans.
28FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Factorsthatcaninfluencethe

Company™screditlossexperienceinclude:(i)theimpactofresidentialrealestatevaluesonloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersandotherloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;(ii)the

concentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;(iii)theamountof

commercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedlesseconomicgrowthand

vitalitythanmanyotherregionsofthecountry;(iv)therepaymentperformanceassociatedwithfirstand

secondlienloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloansto

individualconsumers,whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloans

outstandingthanloanstoothertypesofborrowers.Inrecentyears,theCompanyhasexperienced

historicallyhighlevelsofnonaccrualloansandnetcharge-offsofresidentialrealestate-relatedloans,

includingfirstandjuniorlienmortgageloansandloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.

TheCompanyhasalsoexperiencedhigherthanhistoricallevelsofnonaccrualcommercialrealestateloans

since2009.Commercialrealestatevaluationscanbehighlysubjective,astheyarebaseduponmany

assumptions.Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesin

businessclimate,economicconditions,interestratesand,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsof

businessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,residentialrealestatevaluationscanbe

impactedbyhousingtrends,theavailabilityoffinancingatreasonableinterestrates,governmentalpolicy

regardinghousingandhousingfinanceandgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlosseswhichrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,
theamountoflossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
M&Tbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherentinthe
loanandleaseportfolio.However,thereisnoassurancethattheallowancewillbesufficienttocoversuch

creditlosses,particularlyifhousingandemploymentconditionsworsenortheeconomyexperiencesa

downturn.Inthosecases,theCompanymayberequiredtoincreasetheallowancethroughanincreasein

theprovisionforcreditlosses,whichwouldreducenetincome.
TheCompanymustmaintainadequatesourcesoffundingandliquidity.
TheCompanymustmaintainadequatefundingsourcesinthenormalcourseofbusinesstosupportits
operationsandfundoutstandingliabilities,aswellasmeetregulatoryexpectations.TheCompanyprimarily

reliesondepositstobealowcostandstablesourceoffundingfortheloansitmakesandtheoperationsof

itsbusiness.Corecustomerdeposits,whichincludenoninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearing

transactionaccounts,savingsdepositsandtimedepositsof$250,000orless,havehistoricallyprovidedthe

Companywithasizeablesourceofrelativelystableandlow-costfunds.Inadditiontocustomerdeposits,

sourcesofliquidityincludeborrowingsfromthirdpartybanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHome

LoanBanksandtheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.
TheCompany™sliquidityandabilitytofundandrunthebusinesscouldbemateriallyadversely
affectedbyavarietyofconditionsandfactors,includingfinancialandcreditmarketdisruptionsand

volatilityoralackofmarketorcustomerconfidenceinfinancialmarketsingeneral,whichmayresultina

lossofcustomerdepositsoroutflowsofcashorcollateraland/orabilitytoaccesscapitalmarketson

favorableterms.
OtherconditionsandfactorsthatcouldmateriallyadverselyaffecttheCompany™sliquidityand
fundingincludealackofmarketorcustomerconfidencein,ornegativenewsabout,theCompanyorthe

financialservicesindustrygenerallywhichalsomayresultinalossofdepositsand/ornegativelyaffectthe

abilitytoaccessthecapitalmarkets;thelossofcustomerdepositstoalternativeinvestments;inabilitytosell

orsecuritizeloansorotherassets;anddowngradesinoneormoreoftheCompany™screditratings.A

downgradeintheCompany™screditratings,whichcouldresultfromgeneralindustry-wideorregulatory

factorsnotsolelyrelatedtotheCompany,couldadverselyaffecttheCompany™sabilitytoborrowfundsand

raisethecostofborrowingssubstantiallyandcouldcausecreditorsandbusinesscounterpartiestoraise
29collateralrequirementsortakeotheractionsthatcouldadverselyaffectM&T™sabilitytoraisecapital.Many
oftheaboveconditionsandfactorsmaybecausedbyeventsoverwhichM&Thaslittleornocontrol.There

canbenoassurancethatsignificantdisruptionandvolatilityinthefinancialmarketswillnotoccurinthe

future.IftheCompanyisunabletocontinuetofundassetsthroughcustomerbankdepositsoraccess
fundingsourcesonfavorabletermsoriftheCompanysuffersanincreaseinborrowingcostsorotherwise

failstomanageliquidityeffectively,theCompany™sliquidity,operatingmargins,financialconditionand

resultsofoperationsmaybemateriallyadverselyaffected.
Thefinancialservicesindustryishighlycompetitiveandcreatescompetitivepressuresthatcouldadverselyaffect
theCompany™srevenueandprofitability.
ThefinancialservicesindustryinwhichtheCompanyoperatesishighlycompetitive.TheCompanycompetesnot
onlywithcommercialandotherbanksandthrifts,butalsowithinsurancecompanies,mutualfunds,hedge

funds,securitiesbrokeragefirmsandothercompaniesofferingfinancialservicesintheU.S.,globallyandoverthe

Internet.TheCompanycompetesonthebasisofseveralfactors,includingcapital,accesstocapital,revenue

generation,products,services,transactionexecution,innovation,reputationandprice.Overtime,certainsectors

ofthefinancialservicesindustryhavebecomemoreconcentrated,asinstitutionsinvolvedinabroadrangeof

financialserviceshavebeenacquiredbyormergedintootherfirms.Thesedevelopmentscouldresultinthe

Company™scompetitorsgaininggreatercapitalandotherresources,suchasabroaderrangeofproductsand

servicesandgeographicdiversity.TheCompanymayexperiencepricingpressuresasaresultofthesefactorsand

assomeofitscompetitorsseektoincreasemarketsharebyreducingpricesorpayinghigherratesofintereston

deposits.Finally,technologicalchangeisinfluencinghowindividualsandfirmsconducttheirfinancialaffairsand

changingthedeliverychannelsforfinancialservices,withtheresultthattheCompanymayhavetocontendwith

abroaderrangeofcompetitorsincludingmanythatarenotlocatedwithinthegeographicfootprintofitsbanking

officenetwork.
M&Tmaybeadverselyaffectedbythesoundnessofotherfinancialinstitutions.
Financialservicesinstitutionsareinterrelatedasaresultoftrading,clearing,counterparty,orother
relationships.TheCompanyhasexposuretomanydifferentindustriesandcounterparties,androutinely

executestransactionswithcounterpartiesinthefinancialservicesindustry,includingcommercialbanks,

brokersanddealers,investmentbanks,andotherinstitutionalclients.Manyofthesetransactionsexposethe

Companytocreditriskintheeventofadefaultbyacounterpartyorclient.Inaddition,theCompany™s

creditriskmaybeexacerbatedwhenthecollateralheldbytheCompanycannotberealizedorisliquidated

atpricesnotsufficienttorecoverthefullamountofthecreditorderivativeexposureduetotheCompany.

AnysuchlossescouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsof

operations.M&Treliesondividendsfromitssubsidiariesforitsliquidity.
M&Tisaseparateanddistinctlegalentityfromitssubsi
diaries.M&Ttypicallyreceivessubstantiallyallofits
revenuefromsubsidiarydividends.Thesedividendsaretheprincipalsourceoffundstopaydividendson

M&Tstockandinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.Variousfederaland/orstatelawsandregulations,aswellas

regulatoryexpectations,limittheamountofdividends
thatM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesandcertainnonbank
subsidiariesmaypay.Regulatoryscrutinyofcapitallevelsatbankholdingcompaniesandinsureddepository

institutionsubsidiarieshasincreasedsincethefinanci
alcrisisandhasresultedinincreasedregulatoryfocuson
allaspectsofcapitalplanning,includingdividendsandotherdistributionstoshareholdersofbankssuchas

parentbankholdingcompanies.SeeﬁItem1.BusinessŠDividendsﬂforadiscussionofregulatoryandother

restrictionsondividenddeclarations.Also,M&T™srighttoparticipateinadistributionofassetsupona

subsidiary™sliquidationorreorganizationissubjecttothepriorclaimsofthatsubsidiary™screditors.

LimitationsonM&T™sabilitytoreceivedividendsfromitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialadverseeffecton

itsliquidityandabilitytopaydividendsonitsstockorinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.
TheCompanyissubjecttooperationalrisk.
Likeallbusinesses,theCompanyissubjecttooperationalrisk,whichrepresentstheriskoflossresulting
fromhumanerror,inadequateorfailedinternalprocessesandsystems,andexternalevents.Operationalrisk
30alsoencompassesreputationalriskandcomplianceandlegalrisk,whichistheriskoflossfromviolationsof,
ornoncompliancewith,laws,rules,regulations,prescribedpracticesorethicalstandards,aswellastherisk

ofnoncompliancewithcontractualandotherobligations.TheCompanyisalsoexposedtooperationalrisk

throughoutsourcingarrangements,andtheeffectthatchangesincircumstancesorcapabilitiesofits

outsourcingvendorscanhaveontheCompany™sabilitytocontinuetoperformoperationalfunctions

necessarytoitsbusiness.Inaddition,alongwithotherparticipantsinthefinancialservicesindustry,the

Companycontinuallyandfrequentlyattemptstointroducenewtechnology-drivenproductsandservices

thatareaimedatallowingtheCompanytobetterservecustomersandtoreducecosts.TheCompanymay

notbeabletoeffectivelyimplementnewtechnology-drivenproductsandservicesthatallowsittoremain

competitiveorbesuccessfulinmarketingtheseproductsandservicestoitscustomers.Althoughthe

Companyseekstomitigateoperationalriskthroughasystemofinternalcontrolswhicharereviewedand

updated,nosystemofcontrols,howeverwelldesignedandmaintained,isinfallible.Controlweaknessesor

failuresorotheroperationalriskscouldresultincharges,increasedoperationalcosts,harmtothe

Company™sreputationorforegonebusinessopportunities.
ChangesinaccountingstandardscouldimpacttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
Theaccountingstandardsetters,includingtheFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ),theSEC
andotherregulatorybodies,periodicallychangethefinancialaccountingandreportingstandardsthat

governthepreparationoftheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Thesechangescanbehardto

predictandcanmateriallyimpacthowtheCompanyrecordsandreportsitsfinancialconditionandresults

ofoperations.Insomecases,theCompanycouldberequiredtoapplyaneworrevisedstandard

retroactively,whichwouldresultintherestatingoftheCompany™spriorperiodfinancialstatements.
M&T™saccountingpoliciesandprocessesarecriticaltothereportingoftheCompany™sfinancialconditionand
resultsofoperations.Theyrequiremanagementtomakeestimatesaboutmattersthatareuncertain.
AccountingpoliciesandprocessesarefundamentaltotheCompany™sreportedfinancialconditionand
resultsofoperations.Someofthesepoliciesrequireuseofestimatesandassumptionsthatmayaffectthe

reportedamountsofassetsorliabilitiesandfinancialresults.SeveralofM&T™saccountingpoliciesare

criticalbecausetheyrequiremanagementtomakedifficult,subjectiveandcomplexjudgmentsabout

mattersthatareinherentlyuncertainandbecauseitislikelythatmateriallydifferentamountswouldbe

reportedunderdifferentconditionsorusingdifferentassumptions.Pursuanttogenerallyaccepted

accountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),managementisrequiredtomakecertainassumptionsandestimatesin

preparingtheCompany™sfinancialstatements.IfassumptionsorestimatesunderlyingtheCompany™s

financialstatementsareincorrect,theCompanymayexperiencemateriallosses.
Managementhasidentifiedcertainaccountingpoliciesasbeingcriticalbecausetheyrequire
management™sjudgmenttoascertainthevaluationsofassets,liabilities,commitmentsandcontingencies.A

varietyoffactorscouldaffecttheultimatevaluethatisobtainedeitherwhenearningincome,recognizingan

expense,recoveringanasset,valuinganassetorliability,orrecognizingorreducingaliability.M&Thas

establisheddetailedpoliciesandcontrolproceduresthatareintendedtoensurethesecriticalaccounting

estimatesandjudgmentsarewellcontrolledandappliedconsistently.Inaddition,thepoliciesand

proceduresareintendedtoensurethattheprocessforchangingmethodologiesoccursinanappropriate

manner.Becauseoftheuncertaintysurroundingjudgmentsandtheestimatespertainingtothesematters,

M&Tcouldberequiredtoadjustaccountingpoliciesorrestatepriorperiodfinancialstatementsifthose

judgmentsandestimatesprovetobeincorrect.Foradditionalinformation,seePartII,Item7,

Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬁCritical

AccountingEstimatesﬂandNote1,ﬁSignificantAccountingPolicies,ﬂtotheConsolidatedFinancial

StatementsinPartII,Item8.
DifficultiesincombiningtheoperationsofacquiredentitieswiththeCompany™sownoperationsmayprevent
M&Tfromachievingtheexpectedbenefitsfromitsacquisitions.
M&Thasregularlyconsideredopportunitiestoexpandandimproveitsbusinessthroughacquisitionof
otherfinancialinstitutions.Inherentuncertaintiesexistwhenintegratingtheoperationsofanacquired

entity.M&Tmaynotbeabletofullyachieveitsstrategicobjectivesandplannedoperatingefficienciesinan

acquisition.Inaddition,themarketsandindustriesinwhichtheCompanyanditspotentialacquisition

targetsoperatearehighlycompetitive.TheCompanymaylosecustomersorfailtoretainthecustomersof
31acquiredentitiesasaresultofanacquisition.FutureacquisitionandintegrationactivitiesmayrequireM&T
todevotesubstantialtimeandresources,andasaresultM&Tmaynotbeabletopursueotherbusiness

opportunities.Aftercompletinganacquisition,theCompanymaynotrealizetheexpectedbenefitsofthe
acquisitionduetolowerfinancialresultspertainingtotheacquiredentity.Forexample,theCompanycould

experiencehighercreditlossesthanoriginallyanticipatedrelatedtoanacquiredloanportfolio.
M&Tcouldsufferifitfailstoattractandretainskilledpersonnel.
M&T™ssuccessdepends,inlargepart,onitsabilitytoattractandretainkeyindividuals.Competitionfor
qualifiedcandidatesintheactivitiesandmarketsthattheCompanyservesissignificantandtheCompany

maynotbeabletohirethesecandidatesandretainthem.GrowthintheCompany™sbusiness,including

throughacquisitions,mayincreaseitsneedforadditionalqualifiedpersonnel.IftheCompanyisnotableto

hireorretainthesekeyindividuals,itmaybeunabletoexecuteitsbusinessstrategiesandmaysufferadverse

consequencestoitsbusiness,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
InJune2010,thefederalbankingagenciesissuedjointguidanceonexecutivecompensationdesigned
tohelpensurethatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensationpoliciesdonotencourageimprudent

risktakingandareconsistentwiththesafetyandsoundnessoftheorganization.Inaddition,theDodd-

FrankActrequiresthoseagencies,alongwiththeSEC,toadoptrulestorequirereportingofincentive

compensationandtoprohibitcertaincompensationarrangements.Ifasaresultofcomplyingwithanysuch

rulesM&Tisunabletoattractandretainqualifiedemployees,ordosoatratesnecessarytomaintainits

competitiveposition,orifthecompensationcostsrequiredtoattractandretainemployeesbecomemore

significant,theCompany™sperformance,includingitscompetitiveposition,couldbemateriallyadversely

affected.Severeweather,naturaldisasters,actsofwarorterrorismandotherexternaleventscouldsignificantlyimpactthe
Company™sbusiness.
Severeweather,naturaldisasters,actsofwarorterrorismandotheradverseexternaleventscouldhavea
significantimpactontheCompany™sabilitytoconductbusiness.Sucheventscouldaffectthestabilityofthe

Company™sdepositbase,impairtheabilityofborrowerstorepayoutstandingloans,impairthevalueof

collateralsecuringloans,causesignificantpropertydamage,resultinlossofrevenueand/orcausethe

Companytoincuradditionalexpenses.AlthoughtheCompanyhasestablisheddisasterrecoveryplansand

procedures,andmonitorsforsignificantenvironmentaleffectsonitspropertiesoritsinvestments,the

occurrenceofanysucheventcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany.
TheCompany™sinformationsystemsmayexperienceinterruptionsorbreachesinsecurity.
TheCompanyreliesheavilyoncommunicationsandinfor
mationsystemstoconductitsbusiness.Anyfailure,
interruptionorbreachinsecurityofthesesystemscouldre
sultindisruptionstoitsaccounting,deposit,loanand
othersystems,andadverselyaffecttheCompany™scustomerrelationships.WhiletheCompanyhaspoliciesand

proceduresdesignedtopreventorlimittheeffectofthes
epossibleevents,therecanbenoassurancethatanysuch
failure,interruptionorsecuritybreachwillnotoccuror,
ifanydoesoccur,thatitcanbesufficientlyremediated.
Therehavebeenincreasingeffortsonthepartofthirdpartiestobreachdatasecurityatfinancial
institutionsorwithrespecttofinancialtransactions.Inaddition,becausethetechniquesusedtocausesuch

securitybreacheschangefrequently,oftenarenotrecognizeduntillaunchedagainstatargetandmay

originatefromlessregulatedandremoteareasaroundtheworld,theCompanymaybeunabletoproactively

addressthesetechniquesortoimplementadequatepreventativemeasures.TheabilityoftheCompany™s

customerstobankremotely,includingonlineandthroughmobiledevices,requiressecuretransmissionof

confidentialinformationandincreasestheriskofdatasecuritybreaches.
Theoccurrenceofanyfailure,interruptionorsecuritybreachoftheCompany™ssystems,particularly
ifwidespreadorresultinginfinanciallossestocustomers,coulddamagetheCompany™sreputation,resultin

alossofcustomerbusiness,subjectittoadditionalregulatoryscrutiny,orexposeittocivillitigationand

financialliability.
32TheCompanyisormaybecomeinvolvedfromtimetotimeinsuits,legalproceedings,information-gathering
requests,investigationsandproceedingsbygovernmentalandself-regulatoryagenciesthatmayleadtoadverse

consequences.ManyaspectsoftheCompany™sbusinessinvolvesubstantialriskoflegalliability.M&Tand/orits
subsidiarieshavebeennamedorthreatenedtobenamedasdefendantsinvariouslawsuitsarisingfromitsor

itssubsidiaries™businessactivities(andinsomecasesfromtheactivitiesofcompaniesM&Thasacquired).

Inaddition,fromtimetotime,M&Tis,ormaybecome,thesubjectofgovernmentalandself-regulatory

agencyinformation-gatheringrequests,reviews,investigationsandproceedingsandotherformsof

regulatoryinquiry,includingbytheSECandlawenforcementauthorities.M&Tisalsoatriskwhenithas

agreedtoindemnifyothersforlossesrelatedtolegalproceedings,includinglitigationandgovernmental

investigationsandinquiries,theyface,suchasinconnectionwiththepurchaseorsaleofabusinessorassets.

Theresultsofsuchproceedingscouldleadtosignificantmonetarydamagesorpenalties,adversejudgments,

settlements,fines,injunctions,restrictionsonthewayinwhichtheCompanyconductsitsbusiness,or

reputationalharm.
AlthoughtheCompanyestablishesaccrualsforlegalproceedingswheninformationrelatedtothe
losscontingenciesrepresentedbythosemattersindicatesboththatalossisprobableandthattheamountof

losscanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanydoesnothaveaccrualsforalllegalproceedingswhereitfaces

ariskofloss.Inaddition,duetotheinherentsubjectivityoftheassessmentsandunpredictabilityofthe

outcomeoflegalproceedings,amountsaccruedmaynotrepresenttheultimatelosstotheCompanyfrom

thelegalproceedingsinquestion.Thus,theCompany™sultimatelossesmaybehigher,andpossibly

significantlyso,thantheamountsaccruedforlegallosscontingencies,whichcouldadverselyaffectthe

Company™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
M&TreliesonothercompaniestoprovidekeycomponentsoftheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructure.
ThirdpartiesprovidekeycomponentsoftheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructuresuchasbankingservices,
processing,andInternetconnectionsandnetworkaccess.Anydisruptioninsuchservicesprovidedbythese

thirdpartiesoranyfailureofthesethirdpartiestohandlecurrentorhighervolumesofusecouldadversely

affecttheCompany™sabilitytodeliverproductsandservicestoclientsandotherwisetoconductbusiness.

TechnologicalorfinancialdifficultiesofathirdpartyserviceprovidercouldadverselyaffecttheCompany™s

businesstotheextentthosedifficultiesresultintheinterruptionordiscontinuationofservicesprovidedby

thatparty.TheCompanymaynotbeinsuredagainstalltypesoflossesasaresultofthirdpartyfailuresand

insurancecoveragemaybeinadequatetocoveralllossesresultingfromsystemfailuresorotherdisruptions.

FailuresintheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructurecouldinterrupttheoperationsorincreasethecostsof

doingbusiness.
DetaileddiscussionsofthespecificrisksoutlinedaboveandotherrisksfacingtheCompanyare
includedwithinthisAnnualReportonForm10-KinPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness,ﬂandPartII,Item7

ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂFurthermore,

inPartII,Item7undertheheadingﬁForward-LookingStatementsﬂisincludedadescriptionofcertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptionsidentifiedbymanagementthataredifficulttopredictandthatcould

materiallyaffecttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellasthevalueofthe

Company™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&Tcommonstock,inparticular.
Inaddition,themarketpriceofM&Tcommonstockmayfluctuatesignificantlyinresponsetoa
numberofotherfactors,includingchangesinsecuritiesanalysts™estimatesoffinancialperformance,

volatilityofstockmarketpricesandvolumes,rumorsorerroneousinformation,changesinmarket

valuationsofsimilarcompaniesandchangesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorotherregulatoryagencies.
Item1B.
UnresolvedStaffComments.
None.Item2.
Properties.BothM&TandM&TBankmaintaintheirexecutiveofficesatOneM&TPlazainBuffalo,NewYork.This
twenty-onestoryheadquartersbuilding,containingapproximately300,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,is

ownedinfeebyM&TBankandwascompletedin1967.M&T,M&TBankandtheirsubsidiariesoccupy
33approximately98%ofthebuildingandtheremainderisleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,
2012,thecostofthisproperty(includingimprovementssubsequenttotheinitialconstruction),netof

accumulateddepreciation,was$10.4million.
M&TBankownsanadditionalfacilityinBuffalo,NewYorkwithapproximately395,000rentable
squarefeetofspace.Approximately89%ofthisfacility,knownasM&TCenter,isoccupiedbyM&TBank

anditssubsidiaries,withtheremainderleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,2012,thecostof

thisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$9.1million.
M&TBankalsoownsandoccupiestwoseparatefacilitiesintheBuffaloareawhichsupportcertain
back-officeandoperationsfunctionsoftheCompany.Thetotalsquarefootageofthesefacilities

approximates225,000squarefeetandtheircombinedcost(includingimprovementssubsequentto

acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$19.4millionatDecember31,2012.
M&TBankalsoownsafacilityinSyracuse,NewYorkwithapproximately160,000rentablesquare
feetofspace.Approximately46%ofthisfacilityisoccupiedbyM&TBank.AtDecember31,2012,thecost

ofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$4.4million.
M&TBankalsoownsfacilitiesinHarrisburg,PennsylvaniaandMillsboro,Delawarewith
approximately215,000and325,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupies

approximately34%and90%oftheserespectivefacilities.AtDecember31,2012,thecostofthesebuildings

(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$11.3million

and$6.9million,respectively.
M&TBankobtainedfacilitiesinconnectionwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitioninWilmington,
Delaware,withapproximately340,000(knownasWilmingtonCenter)and295,000(knownasWilmington

Plaza)rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupiesapproximately89%ofWilmington

Center.WilmingtonPlazais50%occupiedbyatenantandunoccupiedbyM&TBank.AtDecember31,2012,

thecostofthesebuildings,netofaccumulateddepreciat
ion,was$42.1millionand$13.9million,respectively.
NootherpropertiesownedbyM&TBankhavemorethan100,000squarefeetofspace.Thecost,net
ofaccumulateddepreciationandamortization,oftheCompany™spremisesandequipmentisdetailedin

note6ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂOfthe727domesticbankingofficesoftheRegistrant™ssubsidiarybanksat

December31,2012,302areownedinfeeand425areleased.
Item3.
LegalProceedings.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingandthreatened
legalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Management,afterconsultationwith

legalcounsel,doesnotanticipatethattheaggregateultimateliabilityarisingoutoflitigationpendingagainst

M&ToritssubsidiarieswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.Onanon-going

basistheCompanyassessesitsliabilitiesandcontingenciesinconnectionwithsuchlegalproceedings.For

thosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincurlossesandtheamountsofthelossescanbe

reasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseandcorrespondingliabilityinitsconsolidated

financialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatenedlitigationcouldresultinexposureinexcessof

thatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrentlyestimable.Althoughnotconsideredprobable,the

rangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,

wasbetween$0and$40million.AlthoughtheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheoutcomeofpending

litigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition,itcannotruleoutthe

possibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidatedresultsofoperationsforaparticular

reportingperiodinthefuture.
Item4.
MineSafetyDisclosures.
Notapplicable.
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
InformationconcerningtheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedbelowasofFebruary22,2013.The

yeartheofficerwasfirstappointedtotheindicatedpositionwiththeRegistrantoritssubsidiariesisshown

parenthetically.Inthecaseofeachentitynotedbelow,officers™termsrununtilthefirstmeetingoftheboard
34ofdirectorsaftersuchentity™sannualmeeting,whichinthecaseoftheRegistranttakesplaceimmediately
followingtheAnnualMeetingofShareholders,anduntiltheirsuccessorsareelectedandqualified.
RobertG.Wilmers,age78,ischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard(2000)anda
director(1982)oftheRegistrant.FromApril1998untilJuly2000,heservedaspresidentandchiefexecutive

officeroftheRegistrantandfromJuly2000untilJune2005heservedaschairman,president(1988)and

chiefexecutiveofficer(1983)oftheRegistrant.Heischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard

(2005)andadirector(1982)ofM&TBank,andpreviouslyservedaschairmanoftheboardofM&TBank

fromMarch1983untilJuly2003andaspresidentofM&TBankfromMarch1984untilJune1996.
MichaelP.Pinto,age57,isavicechairman(2007)andadirector(2003)oftheRegistrant.
Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997).Heisavicechairmanandadirector

(2003)ofM&TBankandisthechairmanandchiefexecutiveofficerofM&TBank™sMid-AtlanticDivision

(2005).PriortoApril2005,Mr.PintowasthechieffinancialofficeroftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank

(1996),andheoversawtheCompany™sFinanceDivision,TechnologyandBankingOperationsDivision,

CorporateServicesGroup,TreasuryDivisionandGeneralCounsel™sOffice.Heisanexecutivevicepresident

(1996)andadirector(1998)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Mr.Pintoischairmanoftheboardandadirectorof

WTInvestmentAdvisors(2006).
MarkJ.Czarnecki,age57,ispresidentandadirector(2007)oftheRegistrantandpresidentanda
director(2007)ofM&TBank.Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1999)and

M&TBank(1997)andwasresponsiblefortheM&TInvestmentGroupandtheCompany™sRetailBanking

network.Mr.Czarneckiisadirector(1999)ofM&TSecuritiesandchairmanoftheboard,presidentand

chiefexecutiveofficer(2007)andadirector(2005)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.
RobertJ.Bojdak,age57,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefcreditofficer(2004)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.InadditiontomanagingtheCompany™screditrisk,Mr.Bojdakwasalso

responsibleformanagingtheCompany™senterprise-widerisk,includingoperational,complianceand

investmentrisk,untilFebruary2013.FromApril2002toApril2004,Mr.Bojdakservedasseniorvice

presidentandcreditdeputyforM&TBank.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofWilmington

Trust,N.A.(2004).
StephenJ.Braunscheidel,age56,isanexecutivevicepresident(2004)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank,
andisinchargeoftheCompany™sHumanResourcesDivision.Previously,hewasaseniorvicepresidentinthe

M&TInvestmentGroup,wherehemanagedthePrivateClientServicesandEmployeeBenefitsdepartments.

Mr.BraunscheidelhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithM&TBanksince1978.
WilliamJ.Farrell,II,age55,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrantandM&TBank(2011),and
isresponsibleforM&T™sWealthandInstitutionalServicesDivision,whichincludesWealthAdvisoryServices,

InstitutionalClientServices,AssetManagement,M&TSecuritiesandM&TInsuranceAgency.Mr.Farrell

joinedM&TthroughtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.HejoinedWilmingtonTrustin1976andhelda

numberofseniormanagementpositions,mostrecently
asexecutivevicepresidentandheadoftheCorporate
ClientServicesbusiness.Mr.FarrellisanexecutivevicepresidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2011).
RichardS.Gold,age52,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2007)andM&TBank
(2006)andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sResidentialMortgageandBusinessBanking

Divisions.Mr.GoldservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2006,mostrecently

responsiblefortheRetailBankingDivision,includingM&TSecurities.Mr.Goldisanexecutivevice

presidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2006).
BrianE.Hickey,age60,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996).HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(1994)oftheRochesterDivisionofM&TBank.

Mr.Hickeyisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsinUpstateNewYorkandinthe

NorthernandCentral/WesternPennsylvaniaregions.Mr.HickeyisalsoresponsiblefortheAutoFloorPlan

lendingbusiness.
RenéF.Jones,age48,isanexecutivevicepresident(2006)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.Previously,Mr.JoneswasaseniorvicepresidentinchargeoftheFinancial

PerformanceMeasurementdepartmentwithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivision.Mr.Joneshasheldanumber

ofmanagementpositionswithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivisionsince1992.Mr.Jonesisanexecutivevice

presidentandchieffinancialofficer(2005)andadirector(2007)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andheis

chairmanoftheboard,president(2009)andatrustee(2005)ofM&TRealEstate.HeisadirectorofM&T

InsuranceAgency(2007)andM&TSecurities(2005).
DarrenJ.King,age43,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2010)andM&TBank(2009),
andisinchargeoftheRetailBankingDivisionandConsumerLendingDivision.Mr.Kingpreviouslyserved
35asseniorvicepresidentofM&TBank,mostrecentlyresponsiblefortheBusinessBankingDivision,andhas
heldanumberofmanagementpositionswithinM&TBanksince2000.Mr.Kingisanexecutivevice

presidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2009).
KevinJ.Pearson,age51,isanexecutivevicepresident(2002)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank.Heis
amemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(2006)oftheNewYorkCity/LongIslandDivisionofM&T

Bank.Mr.Pearsonisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsintheNewYorkCity,

Philadelphia,Connecticut,NewJersey,Tarrytown,GreaterWashingtonD.C.andNorthernVirginia,

SouthernPennsylvaniaandDelawaremarketsofM&TBank,aswellastheCompany™scommercialreal

estatebusiness,CommercialMarketingandTreasuryManagement.Heisanexecutivevicepresidentof

M&TRealEstate(2003),chairmanoftheboard(2009)andadirector(2003)ofM&TRealtyCapitalandan

executivevicepresidentandadirectorofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2008).Mr.Pearsonservedasseniorvice

presidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2002.
MicheleD.Trolli,age51,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefinformationofficeroftheRegistrant
andM&TBank(2005).SheisinchargeoftheCompany™sBankingServices,Technology,Alternative

BankingandGlobalSourcinggroups.Previously,Ms.TrolliwasinchargeoftheTechnologyandBanking

OperationsDivision,theRetailBankingDivisionandtheCorporateServicesGroupofM&TBank.
DonaldK.Truslow,age54,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefriskofficer(2013)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™senterprise-widerisk,including

operational,complianceandinvestmentrisk.PrevioustojoiningM&T,Mr.TruslowservedasPresident,

FinancialStabilityIndustryCouncilofTheFinancialServicesRoundtable,fortwoyears.Priortothat,

Mr.TruslowservedinseveralseniormanagementpositionsatWachoviaCorporation,includingeightyears

asseniorexecutivevicepresidentandchiefriskofficer.
D.ScottN.Warman,age47,isanexecutivevicepresident(2009)andtreasurer(2008)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sTreasuryDivision.Mr.Warman

previouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositions

withinM&TBanksince1995.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandtreasurerofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

(2008),atrusteeofM&TRealEstate(2009)andadirectorofM&TSecurities(2008).
PARTII
Item5.
MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedShareholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesof
EquitySecurities.
M&T™scommonstockistradedunderthesymbolMTBontheNewYorkStockExchange.Seecross-
referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-Kformarket

pricesofM&T™scommonstock,approximatenumberofcommonshareholdersatyear-end,frequencyand

amountsofdividendsoncommonstockandrestrictionsonthepaymentofdividends.
Duringthefourthquarterof2012,M&Tdidnotissueanysharesofitscommonstockthatwerenot
registeredundertheSecuritiesActof1933.
EquityCompensationPlanInformation
ThefollowingtableprovidesinformationasofDecember31,2012withrespecttosharesofcommonstock

thatmaybeissuedunderM&T™sexistingequitycompensationplans.M&T™sexistingequitycompensation

plansincludetheM&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan,the2005IncentiveCompensationPlan,

whichreplacedthe2001StockOptionPlan,andthe2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan,eachof

whichhasbeenpreviouslyapprovedbyshareholders,andtheM&TBankCorporation2008Directors™Stock

PlanandtheM&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,eachofwhichdidnotrequireshareholder

approval.36Thetabledoesnotincludeinformationwithrespecttosharesofcommonstocksubjectto
outstandingoptionsandrightsassumedbyM&Tinconnectionwithmergersandacquisitionsofthe

companiesthatoriginallygrantedthoseoptionsandrights.Footnote(1)tothetablesetsforththetotal

numberofsharesofcommonstockissuableupontheexerciseofsuchassumedoptionsandrightsasof

December31,2012,andtheirweighted-averageexerciseprice.
PlanCategory
Numberof
SecuritiestobeIssuedUpon
Exerciseof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
Weighted-AverageExercisePriceof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
NumberofSecurities
RemainingAvailable
forFutureIssuance
UnderEquity
CompensationPlans
(ExcludingSecurities
ReflectedinColumnA)
(A)(B)(C)
Equitycompensationplansapprovedby
securityholders:
2001StockOptionPlan
................2,075,881$96.70Š
2005IncentiveCompensationPlan
.......4,734,534103.743,263,642
2009EquityIncentiveCompensation
Plan..............................3,58674.272,043,586
Equitycompensationplansnotapprovedby
securityholders:
2008Directors™StockPlan
..............3,82098.47113,684
DeferredBonusPlan
...................38,59362.92Š
Total.............................6,856,414$101.365,420,912
(1)AsofDecember31,2012,atotalof238,174sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereissuableuponexerciseof
outstandingoptionsorrightsassumedbyM&Tinconnectionwithmergerandacquisitiontransactions.The

weighted-averageexercisepriceofthoseoutstandingoptionsorrightsis$148.77percommonshare.
Equitycompensationplansadoptedwithouttheapprovalofshareholdersaredescribedbelow:
2008Directors™StockPlan.
M&Tmaintainsaplanfornon-employeemembersoftheBoardof
DirectorsofM&TandthemembersofitsDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil,andthenon-employeemembersof

theBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankandthemembersofitsregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncils,which

allowssuchdirectors,advisorydirectorsandmembersofregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncilstoreceiveall

oraportionoftheirdirectorialcompensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.
DeferredBonusPlan.
M&TmaintainsadeferredbonusplanwhichwasfrozeneffectiveJanuary1,
2010anddidnotallowanydeferralsafterthatdate.PriortoJanuary1,2010,theplanallowedeligible

officersofM&Tanditssubsidiariestoelecttodeferalloraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensation

awardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestmentoptions,includingM&Tcommonstock.Atthetime

ofthedeferralelection,participantsalsoelectedthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.Suchdistributions

arepayableincash,withtheexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstockwhicharedistributable

intheformofsharesofcommonstock.
37PerformanceGraph
ThefollowinggraphcontainsacomparisonofthecumulativeshareholderreturnonM&Tcommonstock

againstthecumulativetotalreturnsoftheKBWBankIndex,compiledbyKeefe,Bruyette&Woods,Inc.,and

theS&P500Index,compiledbyStandard&Poor™sCorporation,forthefive-yearperiodbeginningon

December31,2007andendingonDecember31,2012.TheKBWBankIndexisamarketcapitalizationindex

consistingof24companiesrepresentingleadingnationalmoneycentersandregionalbanksorthrifts.
$020072008200920102012
2011$50$100
$150$200Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Return*
M&T Bank CorporationKBW Bank Index
S&P 500 Index
ShareholderValueatYearEnd*
200720082009201020112012
M&TBankCorporation1007390121110146
KBWBankIndex1005961685170

S&P500Index10063809294109
*Assumesa$100investmentonDecember31,2007andreinvestmentofalldividends.
Inaccordancewithandtotheextentpermittedbyapplicablelaworregulation,theinformationset
forthaboveundertheheadingﬁPerformanceGraphﬂsha
llnotbeincorporatedbyreferenceintoanyfuture
filingundertheSecuritiesActof1933,asamended(theﬁSecuritiesActﬂ),ortheExchangeActandshallnotbe

deemedtobeﬁsolicitingmaterialﬂortobeﬁfiledﬂwiththeSECundertheSecuritiesActortheExchangeAct.
IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
InFebruary2007,M&TannouncedthatithadbeenauthorizedbyitsBoardofDirectorstopurchaseupto

5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.M&Tdidnotrepurchaseanysharespursuanttosuchplanduring2012.
Duringthefourthquarterof2012M&Tpurchasedsharesofitscommonstockasfollows:
Period(a)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
Purchased(1)(b)AveragePricePaid
perShare
(orUnit)
(c)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
PurchasedasPartof
PubliclyAnnouncedPlansor
Programs(d)MaximumNumber(or
ApproximateDollarValue)ofShares
(orUnits)
thatmayyet
bePurchased
Underthe
Plansor
Programs(2)October1-October31,2012
......................23,772$102.19Š2,181,500
November1-November30,2012
..................575
104.51Š2,181,500
December1-December31,2012
...................54,437100.00Š2,181,500
Total..........................................78,784$100.69Š
38(1)Thetotalnumberofsharespurchasedduringtheperiodsindicatedreflectssharesdeemedtohavebeenreceived
fromemployeeswhoexercisedstockoptionsbyattestingtopreviouslyacquiredcommonsharesinsatisfactionof

theexercisepriceorsharesreceivedfromemployeesuponthevestingofrestrictedstockawardsinsatisfactionof

applicabletaxwithholdingobligations,asispermittedunderM&T™sstock-basedcompensationplans.
(2)OnFebruary22,2007,M&Tannouncedaprogramtopurchaseupto5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.No
shareswerepurchasedundersuchprogramduringtheperiodsindicated.
Item6.
SelectedFinancialData.
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
Item7.
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.
CorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYorkwith

consolidatedassetsof$83.0billionatDecember31,2012.Theconsolidatedfinancialinformationpresented

hereinreflectsM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries,whicharereferredtocollectivelyasﬁtheCompany.ﬂM&T™s

whollyownedbanksubsidiariesareM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmington

Trust,N.A.ﬂ).
M&TBank,withtotalassetsof$82.1billionatDecember31,2012,isaNewYork-charteredcommercial
bankwith725domesticbankingofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,West

Virginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,Canada,andanoffice

intheCaymanIslands.M&TBankanditssubsidiariesofferabroadrangeoffinancialservicestoadiversebaseof

consumers,businesses,professionalclients,government
alentitiesandfinancialinstitutionslocatedintheir
markets.Lendingislargelyfocusedonconsumersresidi
nginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,
DelawareandWashington,D.C.,andonsmallandmedium
sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloans
areoriginatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstatesandinOntario,Canada.Certainlendingactivitiesarealso

conductedinotherstatesthroughvarioussubsidiarie
s.TrustandotherfiduciaryservicesareofferedbyM&T
Bankandthroughitswhollyownedsubsidiary,WilmingtonTrustCompany.OthersubsidiariesofM&TBank

include:M&TRealEstateTrust,acommercialmortgagelender;M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,amultifamily

commercialmortgagelender;M&TSecurities,Inc.,which
providesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsurance
services;WilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.,whichservesasinvestmentadvisortotheWilmington

Funds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,andother
fundsandinstitutionalclients;andM&TInsurance
Agency,Inc.,aninsuranceagency.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,withtotalassetsof$1.8billionatDecember31,2012,isanationalbankwith
officesinWilmington,DelawareandOakfield,NewYork.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.anditssubsidiariesoffer

varioustrustandwealthmanagementservices.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.alsoofferedselecteddepositandloan

productsonanationwidebasis,largelythroughtelephone,Internetanddirectmailmarketingtechniques.
OnAugust27,2012,M&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithHudson
CityBancorp,Inc.(ﬁHudsonCityﬂ),headquarteredinParamus,NewJersey,underwhichHudsonCitywill

beacquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,HudsonCitycommonshareholderswill

receiveconsiderationforeachcommonshareofHudsonCityinanamountvaluedat.08403ofanM&T

shareintheformofeitherM&Tcommonstockorcash,basedontheelectionofeachHudsonCity

shareholder,subjecttoprorationasspecifiedinthemergeragreement(whichprovidesforanaggregatesplit

oftotalconsiderationof60%commonstockofM&Tand40%cash).Theestimatedpurchaseprice

consideringtheCompany™sclosingpriceof$98.47onDecember31,2012is$4.2billion.
AsofDecember31,2012,HudsonCityreported$40.6billionofassets,including$27.2billionof
loans(predominantlyresidentialrealestateloans)and$11.5billionofinvestmentsecurities,and$35.9

billionofliabilities,including$23.5billionofdeposits.Afterthemergeriscompleted,M&Texpectstorepay

approximately$12billionofHudsonCity™slong-termborrowingsbyliquidatingitscomparably-sized

investmentsecuritiesportfolio.Themergerissubjecttoanumberofconditions,includingregulatory

approvalsandapprovalbycommonshareholdersofM&TandHudsonCity,andisexpectedtobe

completedbymid-year2013.
M&TparticipatedintheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŒCapitalPurchaseProgram(ﬁTARPﬂ)of
theU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ),whichwasinitiatedduring2008,bothbyissuing

preferredshares(SeriesA)inDecember2008andthroughthe2009acquisitionofProvidentBankshares

Corporation(ﬁProvidentﬂ)byassumingshares(SeriesC)thathadbeenissuedbythatcorporationin
39November2008.InAugust2012,theU.S.TreasurysolditsholdingsofM&T™sSeriesA(230,000shares)and
SeriesC(151,500shares)PreferredStocktothepublicwhichallowedM&TtoexittheTARP.M&T

modifiedcertainofthetermsoftheSeriesAandSeriesCPreferredStock,subjecttoM&Tcommon

shareholderapproval.Themodificationsrelatedtothedividendrateonthepreferredsharesatthereset

dates,whichwasoriginallysettochangeto9%onNovember15,2013fortheSeriesCpreferredsharesand

onFebruary15,2014fortheSeriesApreferredshares.Ineachcase,thedividendratewillnowchangeto

6.375%onNovember15,2013ratherthantothe9%intheoriginalterms.Theothermodificationrelatedto

M&TagreeingtonotredeemtheSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredsharesuntilonorafterNovember15,2018,

exceptthatifaneventoccurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1Capital,M&Tmayredeemall

oftheshareswithin90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.
OnMay16,2011,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofWilmingtonTrust
Corporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,inastock-for-stock

transaction.WilmingtonTrustoperated55bankingofficesinDelawareandPennsylvaniaatthedateof

acquisition.TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhavebeenincludedin

theCompany™sfinancialresultssincetheacquisitiondate.WilmingtonTrustshareholdersreceived.051372

sharesofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrustcommonstock,resultingin

M&Tissuingatotalof4,694,486commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$406million.
TheWilmingtonTrusttransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccounting
and,accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecordedat

estimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$10.8billion,including

$6.4billionofloansandleases(includingapproximately$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4

billionofcommercialloansandleases,$1.1billionofconsumerloansand$680millionofresidentialreal

estateloans).Liabilitiesassumedaggregated$10.0billion,including$8.9billionofdeposits.Thecommon

stockissuedinthetransactionadded$406milliontoM&T™scommonshareholders™equity.Immediately

priortotheclosingoftheWilmingtonTrusttransaction,M&Tredeemedthe$330millionofpreferredstock

issuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTARPoftheU.S.Treasury.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,

theCompanyrecorded$112millionofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Thecoredepositandother

intangibleassetsaregenerallybeingamortizedoverperiodsof5to7yearsusingacceleratedmethods.There

wasnogoodwillrecordedasaresultofthetransaction;however,inaccordancewithgenerallyaccepted

accountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),anon-taxablegainof$65millionwasrealized,whichrepresentedthe

excessofthefairvalueofassetsacquiredlessliabilitiesassumedoverconsiderationexchanged.The

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustaddedtoM&T™smarket-leadingpositionintheMid-Atlanticregionby

givingM&TaleadingdepositmarketshareinDelaware.
OnNovember5,2010,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththe
FederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)toassumeallofthedeposits,exceptcertainbrokered

deposits,andacquirecertainassetsofKBank,basedinRandallstown,Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,

M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDICwherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedby

theFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.Thetransactionwasaccountedforusing

theacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumedwere

recordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredinthetransactiontotaled

approximately$556million,including$154millionofloansand$186millionincash,andliabilities

assumedaggregated$528million,including$491millionofdeposits.Therewasnogoodwillorother

intangibleassetsrecordedinconnectionwiththistransaction;however,inaccordancewithGAAP,M&T

Bankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$17million($28millionbeforetaxes).Thegain

reflectstheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloanlossesthatM&TBankobtained

fromtheFDIC.TheoperationsobtainedintheKBankacquisitiontransactiondidnothaveamaterial

impactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
Netacquisitionandintegration-relatedgainsandexpenses(includedhereinasmerger-related
expenses)associatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisit
ionincurredduring2012totaled$6millionaftertax-
effect,or$.05ofdilutedearningspercommonshare.Netmerger-relatedexpensesincurredduring2011

totaledtoanetgainof$13millionaftertax-effect,or$.10ofdilutedearningspercommonshare.Reflectedin

thatamountarethe$65millionnon-taxablegain($.52ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)onthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionand$84millionofexpenses($52millionaftertax-effect,or$.42ofdiluted

earningspercommonshare)associatedwiththeacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustandtoamuchlesserextent,

theKBanktransaction.Netmerger-relatedexpensesincurredduring2010totaledtoanetgainof$27million

($16millionaftertax-effect,or$.14ofdilutedearningspercommonshare).Reflectedinthatamountarethe
40$28milliongain($17millionaftertax-effect,or$.14ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)ontheKBank
transactionand$771thousand($469thousandaftertax-effect)ofexpenses.Theexpensesin2012,2011and

2010relatedtosystemsconversionsandothercostsofintegratingandconformingacquiredoperationswith

andintotheCompany.Theseexpensesconsistedlargelyofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfees

associatedwiththeconversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandoffice

consolidations;costsrelatedtoterminationofexisting
contractualarrangementstopurchasevariousservices;
initialmarketingandpromotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;severance

forformeremployees;incentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,suppliesandothercostsof

completingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsandoffices.
Theconditionofthedomesticandglobaleconomyoverthelastseveralyearshassignificantly
impactedthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andspecifically,thefinancialresultsoftheCompany.In

particular,highunemploymentlevelsandsignificantlydepressedresidentialrealestatevaluationshaveled

toincreasedloancharge-offsexperiencedbyfinancialinstitutionsthroughoutthattimeperiod.Sincethe

officialendoftherecessionintheUnitedStatessometimeinthelatterhalfof2009,therecoveryofthe

economyhasbeenveryslow.Asaresult,manyfinancialinstitutions,includingtheCompany,experienced

loancharge-offsathigherthanhistoricallevelsandunrealizedlossesrelatedtoinvestmentsecuritiesbacked

byresidentialandcommercialrealestateduetoalackofliquidityinthefinancialmarketsandanticipated

creditlossesthatledtotherecognitionofother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges.Alsonegatively

impactingthefinancialresultsoffinancialinstitutionsduring2011and2012,includingtheCompany,has

beenaseriesofnewregulations,resultinginhigherassessmentsbytheFDICandlowerfeeincome.
RecentLegislativeDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(ﬁDodd-FrankActﬂ)wassignedintolawon

July21,2010.Thatlawhasandwillcontinuetosignificantlychangethebankregulatorystructureandaffectthe

lending,deposit,investment,tradingandoperatingactivitiesoffinancialinstitutionsandtheirholding

companies,andthesystemofregulatoryoversightoftheCompany.TheDodd-FrankActrequiresvariousfederal

agenciestoadoptabroadrangeofnewimplementingrulesandregulations,andtopreparenumerousstudiesand

reportsforCongress.TheDodd-FrankActcouldhaveamaterialadverseimpactonthefinancialservicesindustry

asawhole,aswellasonM&T™sbusiness,resultsofoperations,financialconditionandliquidity.
TheDodd-FrankActbroadenedthebaseforFDICinsuranceassessments.Beginninginthesecond
quarterof2011,assessmentsarebasedonaverageconsolidatedtotalassetslessaverageTier1capitaland

certainallowabledeductionsofafinancialinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActalsopermanentlyincreasedthe

maximumamountofdepositinsuranceforbanks,savingsinstitutionsandcreditunionsto$250,000per

depositor,retroactivetoJanuary1,2009.Noninterest-bearingtransactionaccountshadunlimiteddeposit

insurancethroughDecember31,2012,whenthatcoverageexpired.
Thelegislationalsorequiresthatpubliclytradedcompaniesgiveshareholdersanon-bindingvoteon
executivecompensationandﬁgoldenparachuteﬂpayments,andauthorizestheSecuritiesandExchange

Commissiontopromulgaterulesthatwouldallowshareholderstonominatetheirowncandidatesusinga

company™sproxymaterials.TheDodd-FrankActalsodirectstheFederalReserveBoardtopromulgaterules

prohibitingexcessivecompensationpaidtobankholdingcompanyexecutives,regardlessofwhetherthe

companyispubliclytraded.
TheDodd-FrankActestablishedanewBureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionwithbroadpowers
tosuperviseandenforceconsumerprotectionlaws.TheBureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionhas

broadrule-makingauthorityforawiderangeofconsumerprotectionlawsthatapplytoallbanksand

savingsinstitutions,includingtheauthoritytoprohibitﬁunfair,deceptiveorabusiveﬂactsandpractices.The

BureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionhasexaminationandenforcementauthorityoverallbanksand

savingsinstitutionswithmorethan$10billioninassets.
Inaddition,theDodd-FrankAct,amongotherthings:
Šweakenedthefederalpreemptionrulesthathavebeenapplicablefornationalbanksandgivesstate

attorneysgeneraltheabilitytoenforcefederalconsumerprotectionlaws;
ŠamendedtheElectronicFundTransferAct(ﬁEFTAﬂ)whichresultedin,amongotherthings,the

FederalReserveBoardissuingrulesaimedatlimitingdebit-cardinterchangefees;
Šappliedthesameleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsthatapplytoinsureddepository

institutionstomostbankholdingcompanieswhich,amongotherthings,will,afterathree-year

phase-inperiodwhichbeganJanuary1,2013,removetrustpreferredsecuritiesasapermitted

componentofaholdingcompany™sTier1capital;
41ŠprovidedforanincreaseintheFDICassessmentfordepositoryinstitutionswithassetsof$10billion
ormoreandincreasedtheminimumreserveratioforthedepositinsurancefundfrom1.15%to

1.35%;Šimposedcomprehensiveregulationoftheover-the-counterderivativesmarket,whichwouldinclude

certainprovisionsthatwouldeffectivelyprohibitinsureddepositoryinstitutionsfromconducting

certainderivativesbusinessesintheinstitutionitself;
Šrepealedthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,therebypermitting

depositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts;
Šprovidedmortgagereformprovisionsregardingacustomer™sabilitytorepay,restrictingvariable-rate

lendingbyrequiringtheabilitytorepaytobedeterminedforvariable-rateloansbyusingthe

maximumratethatwillapplyduringthefirstfiveyearsofavariable-rateloanterm,andmaking

moreloanssubjecttoprovisionsforhighercostloans,newdisclosures,andcertainother

revisions;and
ŠcreatedtheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil,whichwillrecommendtotheFederalReserve

Boardincreasinglystrictrulesforcapital,leverage,liquidity,riskmanagementandother

requirementsascompaniesgrowinsizeandcomplexity.
ManyaspectsoftheDodd-FrankActstillremainsubjecttorulemakingandwilltakeeffectover
severalyears,makingitdifficulttoanticipatetheoverallfinancialimpactonM&T,itscustomersorthe

financialindustrymoregenerally.Provisionsinthelegislationthataffectdepositinsuranceassessments,

paymentofinterestondemanddepositsandinterchangefeesdirectlyimpactthenetincomeoffinancial

institutions.ProvisionsinthelegislationthatrevoketheTier1capitaltreatmentoftrustpreferredsecurities

andotherwiserequirerevisionstothecapitalrequirementsofM&TandM&TBankcouldrequireM&Tand

M&TBanktofurtherseekothersourcesofcapitalinthefuture.
CriticalAccountingEstimates
TheCompany™ssignificantaccountingpoliciesconformwithGAAPandaredescribedinnote1ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.Inapplyingthoseaccountingpolicies,managementoftheCompanyisrequiredto

exercisejudgmentindeterminingmanyofthemethodologies,assumptionsandestimatestobeutilized.

Certainofthecriticalaccountingestimatesaremoredependentonsuchjudgmentandinsomecasesmay

contributetovolatilityintheCompany™sreportedfinancialperformanceshouldtheassumptionsand

estimatesusedchangeovertimeduetochangesincircumstances.Someofthemoresignificantareasin

whichmanagementoftheCompanyappliescriticalassumptionsandestimatesincludethefollowing:
ŠAccountingforcreditlossesŠTheallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentstheamountthatin

management™sjudgmentappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolioasof

thebalancesheetdate.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjusttheleveloftheallowanceas

deemednecessarybymanagement.Inestimatinglossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio,

assumptionsandjudgmentareappliedtomeasuream
ountsandtimingofexpectedfuturecashflows,
collateralvaluesandotherfactorsusedtodetermin
etheborrowers™abilitiestorepayobligations.
Historicallosstrendsarealsoconsidered,asareeconomicconditions,industrytrends,portfoliotrends

andborrower-specificfinancialdata.Inaccountingforloansacquiredatadiscount,whichareinitially

recordedatfairvaluewithnocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowancefor

creditlosses,thecashflowsexpectedatacquisitioninexcessofestimatedfairvaluearerecognizedas

interestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans
.Subsequentdecreasesintheexpectedprincipal
cashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditionstotheCompany™sallowancefor

creditlosses.Subsequentimprovementsinexpectedcashflowsresultfirstintherecoveryofany

applicableallowanceforcreditlossesandthenintherecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeoverthe

remaininglivesoftheloans.Changesinthecircumstancesconsideredwhendetermining

management™sestimatesandassumptionscouldresu
ltinchangesinthoseestimatesandassumptions,
whichmayresultinadjustmentoftheallowanceor,in
thecaseofacquiredloans,increasesininterest
incomeinfutureperiods.Adetaileddiscussionoffactsandcircumstancesconsideredbymanagement

indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlossesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionfor

CreditLossesﬂandinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ŠValuationmethodologiesŠManagementoftheCompanyappliesvariousvaluationmethodologies

toassetsandliabilitieswhichofteninvolveasignificantdegreeofjudgment,particularlywhenliquid

marketsdonotexistfortheparticularitemsbeingvalued.Quotedmarketpricesarereferredtowhen

estimatingfairvaluesforcertainassets,suchastradingassets,mostinvestmentsecurities,and
42residentialrealestateloansheldforsaleandrelatedcommitments.However,forthoseitemsfor
whichanobservableliquidmarketdoesnotexist,managementutilizessignificantestimatesand

assumptionstovaluesuchitems.Examplesoftheseitemsincludeloans,privatelyissuedmortgage-

backedsecurities,deposits,borrowings,goodwill,coredepositandotherintangibleassets,andother

assetsandliabilitiesobtainedorassumedinbusinesscombinations;capitalizedservicingassets;

pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitobligations;valueascribedtostock-basedcompensation;

estimatedresidualvaluesofpropertyassociatedwithleases;andcertainderivativeandotherfinancial

instruments.Thesevaluationsrequiretheuseofvariousassumptions,including,amongothers,

discountrates,ratesofreturnonassets,repaymentrates,cashflows,defaultrates,costsofservicing

andliquidationvalues.Theuseofdifferentassumptionscouldproducesignificantlydifferentresults,

whichcouldhavematerialpositiveornegativeeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.In

additiontovaluation,theCompanymustassesswhetherthereareanydeclinesinvaluebelowthe

carryingvalueofassetsthatshouldbeconsideredotherthantemporaryorotherwiserequirean

adjustmentincarryingvalueandrecognitionofalossintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.

Examplesincludeinvestmentsecurities,otherinvestments,mortgageservicingrights,goodwill,core

depositandotherintangibleassets,amongothers.Specificassumptionsandestimatesutilizedby

managementarediscussedindetailhereininmanagement™sdiscussionandanalysisoffinancial

conditionandresultsofoperationsandinnotes1,3,4,7,8,11,12,18,19and20ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
ŠCommitments,contingenciesandoff-balancesheetarrangementsŠInformationregardingthe

Company™scommitmentsandcontingencies,includingguaranteesandcontingentliabilitiesarising

fromlitigation,andtheirpotentialeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperationsisincludedinnote21

ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfrom

variousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultinchallengestothetaxreturn

treatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Managementbelievesthattheassumptions

andjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshavebeenappropriate.Shouldtaxlaws

changeorthetaxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanage
ment™sassumptionswereinappropriate,theresult
andadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.

InformationregardingtheCompany™sincometaxesispresentedinnote13ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Therecognitionorde-recognitionintheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatementsof

assetsandliabilitiesheldbyso-calledvariableinterestentitiesissubjecttotheinterpretationand

applicationofcomplexaccountingpronouncementsorinterpretationsthatrequiremanagementto

estimateandassesstherelativesignificanceoftheCompany™sfinancialinterestsinthoseentitiesandthe

degreetowhichtheCompanycaninfluencethemostimportantactivitiesoftheentities.Information

relatingtotheCompany™sinvolvementinsuchentitiesandtheaccountingtreatmentaffordedeach

suchinvolvementisincludedinnote19ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
OverviewTheCompanyrecordednetincomeduring2012of$1.03billionor$7.54ofdilutedearningspercommon

share,up20%and19%,respectively,from$859millionor$6.35ofdilutedearningspercommonsharein

2011.Basicearningspercommonshareincreased19%to$7.57in2012from$6.37in2011.Netincomein

2010totaled$736million,whiledilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$5.69and$5.72,

respectively.Theafter-taximpactofnetmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesassociatedwiththeacquisition

transactionspreviouslydescribedtotaledtoexpensesof$6million($10millionpre-tax)or$.05ofbasicand

dilutedearningspercommonsharein2012,comparedwithnetgainsof$13million(netexpensesof

$19millionpre-tax)or$.10ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2011and$16million

($27millionpre-tax)or$.14ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2010.Expressedasarateof

returnonaverageassets,netincomein2012was1.29%,comparedwith1.16%in2011and1.08%in2010.

Thereturnonaveragecommonshareholders™equitywas10.96%in2012,9.67%in2011and9.30%in2010.
TheCompany™simprovedfinancialperformancein2012ascomparedwith2011resultedfroman
increaseinnetinterestincome,lowercreditcostsandsignificantlyhighermortgagebankingrevenuesand

trustincome,partiallyoffsetbynetinvestmentsecuritieslossesin2012,comparedwithnetgainson

investmentsecuritiesin2011.Resultsfor2012reflectthefull-yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedfrom

theacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustonMay16,2011.Theimprovedperformancein2011ascompared

with2010waslargelyattributabletohighernetinterestincome,lowercreditcostsandgainsfromthesaleof

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale.
43Netinterestincomeonataxable-equivalentbasisrose9%to$2.62billionin2012from$2.42billion
in2011.Thatimprovementresultedfromgrowthinaverageloansandleasesof$6.5billionor12%.Thenet

interestmargin,ortaxable-equivalentnetinterestincomedividedbyaverageearningassets,was3.73%in

2012,unchangedfromtheyearearlier.Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomeincreased$124millionor5%

in2011ascomparedwith2010,resultingfroma$5.0billion,or8%,increaseinaverageearningassets,

partiallyoffsetbyan11basispoint(hundredthsofonepercent)narrowingofthenetinterestmargin.The

higheraverageearningassetsandthedeclineinthenetinterestmarginwereeachlargelyattributabletothe

May2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.
Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2012declined24%to$204millionfrom$270millionintheprior
year.Netcharge-offsof$186millionin2012weredownfrom$265millionin2011.Netcharge-offsasa

percentageofaverageloansandleaseswere.30%and.47%in2012and2011,respectively.TheCompany

experiencedimprovementincreditqualityduring2012,althoughrealestatevaluationscontinuedtobe

depressed.Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2011was$98millionor27%below$368millionin2010.Net

charge-offsin2011declined$81millionfrom$346million,or.67%ofaverageloansandleases,in2010.
Otherincomeaggregated$1.67billionin2012,5%above$1.58billionin2011.Thatimprovement
wasledbymortgagebankingrevenues,whichrose$183millionor110%,andtrustincome,whichincreased

$139millionor42%,from2011.Gainsandlossesonbankinvestmentsecuritiestotaledtonetlossesof$48

millionin2012,comparedwithnetgainsof$73millionin2011.Reflectedinthosegainsorlosseswere

other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$48millionand$77millionin2012and2011,respectively,on

certainprivatelyissuedcollateralizedmortgageobligations(ﬁCMOsﬂ)backedbyresidentialandcommercial

realestateloans,andgainsof$150millionin2011fromthesaleofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale.

Thosesoldsecuritieswerepredominantlymortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernment-sponsored

entitiesthatweresoldinconnectionwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitioninordertomanagethe

Company™sbalancesheetcompositionandresultantcapitalratios.Alsoreflectedinotherincomein2011

was$55millionofcashreceivedinfullsettlementofalawsuitinitiatedbyM&Tin2008underwhichM&T

soughtdamagesarisingfroma2007investmentincollateralizeddebtobligations(ﬁCDOsﬂ)andallegedthat

thequalityoftheinvestmentwasnotasrepresented.The$65millionnon-taxablegainassociatedwiththe

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustwasalsoincludedinotherincomein2011.Otherincomerose43%or$475

millionin2011from$1.11billionin2010.Inadditiontothegainsfromthesaleofinvestmentsecurities,

theCDOlitigationsettlementandthemerger-relatedgainfromtheWilmingtonTrusttransaction(all

recordedin2011),a$210millionriseintrustincomeassociatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitionwas

thepredominantfactorinthegrowthinotherincomefrom2010to2011.Alsocontributingtothehigher

levelofotherincomein2011wereincreasedrevenuesfromletterofcreditandcredit-relatedfeesand

merchantdiscountandcreditcardfees.Partiallyoffsettingthefavorablefactorsnotedweredeclinesin

mortgagebankingrevenuesandservicechargesondepositaccounts,andthe$28milliongainrecordedin

2010associatedwiththeKBankacquisitiontransaction.
Otherexpenseincreased1%to$2.51billionin2012from$2.48billionin2011.Otherexpense
totaled$1.91billionin2010.IncludedinthoseamountsareexpensesconsideredbyM&Ttobe

ﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature,consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$61

million,$62millionand$58millionin2012,2011and2010,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof

$10millionin2012,$84millionin2011and$771thousandin2010.Exclusiveofthosenonoperating

expenses,noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated$2.44billionin2012,comparedwith$2.33billionin

2011and$1.86billionin2010.Reflectedin2011™snoninterestoperatingexpenseswerea$79millionother-

than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC

(ﬁBLGﬂ)anda$30milliontax-deductiblecashcontributiontoTheM&TCharitableFoundationinthe

fourthquarter.Afterconsideringthoseitems,theincreaseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesfrom2011to

2012waslargelytheresultofthefull-yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheMay2011acquisitionof

WilmingtonTrust.Inadditiontothetwoitemsnotedabovethatimpacted2011expenses,contributingto

theriseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesfrom2010to2011weretheimpactoftheoperationsobtainedin

theWilmingtonTrustacquisitionandhigherFDICassessments.
Theefficiencyratioexpressestherelationshipofoperatingexpensestorevenues.TheCompany™s
efficiencyratio,ornoninterestoperatingexpenses(aspreviouslydefined)dividedbythesumoftaxable-

equivalentnetinterestincomeandnoninterestincome(exclusiveofgainsandlossesfrombankinvestment

securitiesandgainsonmergertransactions),was56.2%in2012,comparedwith60.4%in2011and53.7%

in2010.Thecalculationsoftheefficiencyratioarepresentedintable2.
44Table1
EARNINGSSUMMARY
Dollarsinmillions
Increase(Decrease)(a)
CompoundGrowthRate
5Years
2011to2012
2010to2011
Amount%Amount%201220112010200920082007to2012
$150.15$64.12Interestincome(b)
...........................$2,968.12,817.92,753.82,747.03,299.5(4)%
(59.2)(15)(60.0)(13)Interestexpense
.............................343.2402.3462.3669.41,337.8(27)
209.39124.15Netinterestincome(b)
........................2,624.92,415.62,291.52,077.61,961.77
(66.0)(24)(98.0)(27)Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.................204.0270.0368.0604.0412.01
(121.0)Š156.7ŠGain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities(c)
......(47.8)73.2(83.5)(137.1)(147.8)Š
205.314318.227Otherincome
...............................1,715.11,509.81,191.61,185.21,086.710
Less:110.69204.320Salariesandemployeebenefits
................1,314.61,204.0999.71,001.9957.18
(79.4)(6)359.039Otherexpense
.............................1,194.71,274.1915.1978.7769.911
328.426133.712Incomebeforeincometaxes
...................1,578.91,250.51,116.8541.1761.610
Less:.521.98Taxable-equivalentadjustment(b)
.............26.425.924.021.821.85
157.9438.52Incometaxes
..............................523.0365.1356.6139.4183.911
$170.020$123.317Netincome
.................................$1,029.5859.5736.2379.9555.99%
(a)Changeswerecalculatedfromunroundedamounts.
(b)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentrepresentsadditional
incometaxesthatwouldbedueifallinterestincomeweresubjecttoincometaxes.Thisadjustment,whichis

relatedtointerestreceivedonqualifiedmunicipalsecurities,industrialrevenuefinancingsandpreferredequity

securities,isbasedonacompositeincometaxrateofapproximately39%.
(c)Includesother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,ifany.
SupplementalReportingofNon-GAAPResultsofOperations
Asaresultofbusinesscombinationsandotheracquisitions,theCompanyhadintangibleassetsconsistingof

goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetstotaling$3.6billionatDecember31,2012,compared

with$3.7billionateachofDecember31,2011and2010.Includedinsuchintangibleassetswasgoodwillof

$3.5billionateachofthosedates.Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets,aftertaxeffect,

totaled$37million,$38millionand$35millionduring2012,2011and2010,respectively.
M&Tconsistentlyprovidessupplementalreportingofitsresultsonaﬁnetoperatingﬂorﬁtangibleﬂ
basis,fromwhichM&Texcludestheafter-taxeffectofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assets(andtherelatedgoodwill,coredepositintangibleandotherintangibleassetbalances,netofapplicable

deferredtaxamounts)andgainsandexpensesassociatedwithmergingacquiredoperationsintothe

Company,sincesuchitemsareconsideredbymanagementtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature.Althoughﬁnet

operatingincomeﬂasdefinedbyM&TisnotaGAAPmeasure,M&T™smanagementbelievesthatthis

informationhelpsinvestorsunderstandtheeffectofacquisitionactivityinreportedresults.
Netoperatingincometotaled$1.07billionin2012,up21%from$884millionin2011.Dilutednet
operatingearningspercommonsharein2012rose20%to$7.88from$6.55in2011.Netoperatingincome

anddilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$755millionand$5.84,respectively,in2010.
Expressedasarateofreturnonaveragetangibleassets,netoperatingincomewas1.40%in2012,
comparedwith1.26%in2011and1.17%in2010.Netoperatingreturnonaveragetangiblecommonequity

was19.42%in2012,comparedwith17.96%and18.95%in2011and2010,respectively.
ReconciliationsofGAAPamountswithcorrespondingnon-GAAPamountsarepresentedintable2.
45Table2
RECONCILIATIONOFGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
201220112010Incomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
.........................................................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
...................................37,01137,55035,265
Merger-relatedgains(a)
...............................................................Š
(64,930)(16,730)
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
............................................................6,00152,154469
Netoperatingincome
..............................................................$1,072,510$884,253$755,165
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
.....................................................$
7.54$6.35$5.69
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
....................................29.30.29
Merger-relatedgains(a)
...............................................................Š
(.52)(.14)
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
.............................................................05.42Š
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
........................................$
7.88$6.55$5.84
Otherexpense
Otherexpense
.......................................................................$2,509,260$2,478,068$1,914,837
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
.....................................(60,631)(61,617)(58,103)
Merger-relatedexpenses
..............................................................(9,879)(83,687)(771)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
.......................................................$2,438,750$2,332,764$1,855,963
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits
..........................................................$
4,997$16,131$7
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................................1541244
Printing,postageandsupplies
..........................................................Š
2,66374
Othercostsofoperations
..............................................................4,86764,481646
Total............................................................................$
9,879$83,687$771
Efficiencyratio
Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
...............................................$2,438,750$2,332,764$1,855,963
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
...................................................2,624,9072,415,6322,291,549
Otherincome
.......................................................................1,667,2701,582,9121,108,100
Less:Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.................................................9
150,1872,770
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
................................................(47,822)(77,035)(86,281)
Merger-relatedgains
...............................................................Š
64,93027,539
Denominator.......................................................................$4,339,990$3,860,462$3,455,621
Efficiencyratio
......................................................................56.19%60.43%53.71%
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
.......................................................................$
79,983$73,977$68,380
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(144)(168)(153)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................424329
Averagetangibleassets
..............................................................$
76,356$70,327$64,731
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity
..................................................................$
9,703$9,004$8,103
Preferredstock
......................................................................(869)(797)(736)
Averagecommonequity
............................................................8,8348,2077,367
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(144)(168)(153)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................424329
Averagetangiblecommonequity
.....................................................$
5,207$4,557$3,718
Atendofyear
Totalassets

Totalassets
.........................................................................$
83,009$77,924$68,021
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(116)(176)(126)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................345123
Totaltangibleassets
................................................................$
79,402$74,274$64,393
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity
........................................................................$
10,203$9,271$8,358
Preferredstock
......................................................................(873)(865)(741)
UndeclareddividendsŠpreferredstock
.................................................(3)(3)(6)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredpreferreddividends
.....................................9,3278,4037,611
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(116)(176)(126)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................345123
Totaltangiblecommonequity
........................................................$
5,720$4,753$3,983
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
46NetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivities
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincometotaled$2.62billionin2012,9%above$2.42billionin2011.That

improvementresultedfroma9%increaseinaverageearningassets,to$70.3billionin2012from$64.7

billionin2011.Theriseinaverageearningassetswastheresultofhigheraverageloansandleasespartially

offsetbylowerinterest-bearingdepositsheldattheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.Thenetinterest

marginof3.73%in2012wasunchangedfrom2011.
Averagebalancesofloansandleasesincreased$6.5billionor12%to$62.7billionin2012from$56.2
billionin2011.Commercialloansandleasesaveraged$16.3billionin2012,up$1.7billionor11%from

2011.Averagecommercialrealestateloansincreased$2.0billionor9%to$24.9billionin2012from$22.9

billionintheprioryear.Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflectshigher

loandemandbycustomers.Residentialrealestateloanbalancesrose$2.9billionor43%to$9.7billionin

2012from$6.8billionin2011,predominantlytheresultoftheCompany™sdecisiontoretainforportfolioa

higherproportionoforiginatedloansduringmostoftheyearratherthansellingthem.Consumerloans

averaged$11.7billionin2012,down$132millionor1%from$11.9billionin2011.Averageloansand

leasesin2012reflectthefull-yearimpactofloansobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.
Netinterestincomeonataxable-equivalentbasisrose5%to$2.42billionin2011from$2.29billion
in2010.Growthinaverageearningassetswasthemajorfactorforthatincrease,partiallyoffsetbya

narrowingofthenetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetswere$64.7billionin2011,up8%from

$59.7billionin2010,predominantlytheresultofearningassetsobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmington

Trust,whichattheMay16,2011acquisitiondatetotaledapproximately$9.6billion.TheCompany™snet

interestmargindeclinedto3.73%in2011from3.84%in2010,partiallyattributabletotheWilmington

Trustacquisition.Alsocontributingtothatnarrowingweresignificantlyhighercashbalancesondeposit

withtheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.
Averageloansandleasesrose$4.9billionor10%in2011from$51.3billionin2010,due
predominantlytoloansobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.LoansassociatedwithWilmington

Trusttotaled$6.4billionontheacquisitiondate,consistingofapproximately$1.4billionofcommercial

loansandleases,$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.1billionofconsumerloansand$680

millionofresidentialrealestateloans.Includingtheimpactoftheacquiredloanbalances,average

commercialloansandleaseswere$14.7billionin2011,up$1.6billionor12%from$13.1billionin2010.

Averagebalancesofcommercialrealestateloansincreased11%to$22.9billionin2011from$20.7billionin

2010.Residentialrealestateloansaveraged$6.8billionin2011,up18%from$5.7billionin2010.In

additiontotheimpactofWilmingtonTrust,higheramountsofloansoriginatedtobeheldinportfolio

contributedtothatincrease.Consumerloansin2011averaged$11.9billion,up1%from$11.7billionin

2010.LargelyoffsettingtheimpactofconsumerloansobtainedintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionwere

declinesinaverageautomobileandhomeequityloans.
47Table3
AVERAGEBALANCESHEETSANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTRATES
20122011201020092008AverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRate(Averagebalanceinmillions;interestinthousands)
Assets
Earningassets

Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount(a)
Commercial,financial,etc.
........................................$16,336$606,4953.71%14,655564,7873.85%13,092521,7473.99%13,855524,6093.79%13,802723,8515.24%
RealestateŠcommercial
.........................................24,9071,138,7234.5022,9011,051,7724.5920,714974,0474.7020,085894,6914.4518,4281,072,1785.82
RealestateŠconsumer
..........................................9,727421,5164.336,778334,4214.935,746303,2625.285,297288,4745.455,465329,5746.03
Consumer......................................................11,732559,2534.7711,865592,3864.9911,745613,4795.2211,722636,0745.4311,150716,6786.43
Totalloansandleases,net
.......................................62,7022,725,9874.3556,1992,543,3664.5351,2972,412,5354.7050,9592,343,8484.6048,8452,842,2815.82
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
....................................528
1,221.231,1952,934.2510288.095034.07101091.07
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities
.....................421.55180189.11221446.2052129.25109
2,0711.91
Tradingaccount
...................................................96
1,3941.45941,4111.5094789.8487640.74791,5461.95
Investmentsecurities(b)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..................................4,538150,5003.324,165155,3393.734,483191,6774.283,805182,1634.793,740181,0984.84
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........................220
11,6385.2924413,7045.6126615,1075.6722113,1435.941369,2436.79
Other.........................................................2,21177,3153.502,655101,0203.803,269133,1764.074,377207,0694.735,097263,1045.16
Totalinvestmentsecurities
......................................6,969239,4533.447,064270,0633.828,018339,9604.248,403402,3754.798,973453,4455.05
Totalearningassets
.............................................70,2992,968,0764.2264,7322,817,9634.3559,7322,753,8184.6159,5512,747,0264.6158,0163,299,4525.69
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........................................(922)(916)(906)(864)(791)
Cashandduefrombanks
...........................................1,3841,2071,0991,1211,224
Otherassets
......................................................9,2228,9548,4557,6646,683
Totalassets
...................................................$79,98373,97768,38067,47265,132
LiabilitiesandShareholders™Equity
Interest-bearingliabilities

Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
..................................................$856
1,343.167531,145.15601850.145431,122.215022,894.58
Savingsdeposits
.................................................33,39868,011.2030,40384,314.2826,19085,226.3322,832112,550.4918,170248,0831.37
Timedeposits
...................................................5,34746,102.866,48071,0141.106,583100,2411.528,782206,2202.359,583330,3893.45
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
..................................605
1,130.19779962.129531,368.141,6652,391.143,98684,4832.12
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
...................................40,206116,586.2938,415157,435.4134,327187,685.5533,822322,283.9532,241665,8492.07
Short-termborrowings
.............................................839
1,286.158271,030.121,8543,006.162,9117,129.246,086142,6272.34
Long-termborrowings
..............................................5,527225,2974.086,959243,8663.509,169271,5782.9611,092340,0373.0711,605529,3194.56
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
...................................46,572343,169.7446,201402,331.8745,350462,2691.0247,825669,4491.4049,9321,337,7952.68
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
........................................21,76117,27313,70911,0547,674
Otherliabilities
....................................................1,9471,4991,2181,3111,089
Totalliabilities
..................................................70,28064,97360,27760,19058,695
Shareholders™equity
...............................................9,7039,0048,1037,2826,437
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
.............................$79,98373,97768,38067,47265,132
Netinterestspread
.................................................3.483.483.593.213.01
Contributionofinterest-freefunds
.....................................25.25.25.28.37
Netinterestincome/marginonearningassets
...........................$2,624,9073.73%2,415,6323.73%2,291,5493.84%2,077,5773.49%1,961,6573.38%
(a)Includesnonaccrualloans.
(b)Includesavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesatamortizedcost.
48Table4summarizesaverageloansandleasesoutstandingin2012andpercentagechangesinthe
majorcomponentsoftheportfoliooverthepasttwoyears.
Table4
AVERAGELOANSANDLEASES
(Netofunearneddiscount)
PercentIncrease
(Decrease)from
20122011to2012
2010to2011
(Inmillions)
Commercial,financial,etc.
...................................$16,33611%12%
RealestateŠcommercial
...................................24,907911
RealestateŠconsumer
.....................................9,7274318
ConsumerAutomobile.............................................2,572(6)(3)
Homeequitylines
........................................5,930Š2
Homeequityloans
.......................................562
(22)(17)
Other..................................................2,668811
Totalconsumer
........................................11,732(1)1
Total..................................................$62,70212%10%
Commercialloansandleases,excludingloanssecuredbyrealestate,totaled$17.8billionat
December31,2012,representing27%oftotalloansandleases.Table5presentsinformationoncommercial

loansandleasesasofDecember31,2012relatingtogeographicarea,size,borrowerindustryandwhether

theloansaresecuredbycollateralorunsecured.Ofthe$17.8billionofcommercialloansandleases

outstandingattheendof2012,approximately$15.2billion,or85%,weresecured,while44%,25%and19%

weregrantedtobusinessesinNewYorkState,PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea(whichincludes

Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia),respectively.TheCompany

providesfinancingforleasestocommercialcustomers,primarilyforequipment.Commercialleases

includedintotalcommercialloansandleasesatDecember31,2012aggregated$1.3billion,ofwhich50%

weresecuredbycollaterallocatedinNewYorkState,14%weresecuredbycollateralinPennsylvaniaand

another13%weresecuredbycollateralintheMid-Atlanticarea.
49Table5
COMMERCIALLOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
(ExcludesLoansSecuredbyRealEstate)
December31,2012
NewYork
PennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentofTotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Manufacturing...................$1,566$1,062$372$376$3,37619%
Services.........................1,1245538593472,88316
Automobiledealerships
............1,1497103116552,82516
Wholesale.......................818324345132
1,6199
Financialandinsurance
...........63519324032
1,1006
Realestateinvestors
...............644157138125
1,0646
Transportation,communications,
utilities.......................313294201229
1,0376
Healthservices
...................427135268779075
Construction....................379261182428645
Publicadministration
.............22423469165433
Retail..........................21922071315413
Agriculture,forestry,fishing,
mining,etc.
...................41543121281
Other..........................388264216228905
Total...........................$7,927$4,461$3,303$2,086$17,777100%
Percentoftotal
...................44%25%19%12%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstanding
Secured.........................80%77%77%77%78%
Unsecured......................121918915
Leases..........................845147
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysize
ofloan
Lessthan$1million
...............26%20%30%13%23%
$1millionto$5million
............2326242624
$5millionto$10million
...........1617152317
$10millionto$20million
..........1318151715
$20millionto$30million
..........10991210
$30millionto$50million
..........86497
Greaterthan$50million
...........443Š4
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
50Internationalloansincludedincommercialloansandleasestotaled$138millionand$122millionat
December31,2012and2011,respectively.Includedinsuchloanswere$128millionand$108million,

respectively,ofloansatM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,Canada,whichopenedinthesecond

quarterof2010.TheCompanyparticipatesintheinsuranceandguaranteeprogramsoftheExport-Import

BankoftheUnitedStates.TheseprogramsprovideU.S.governmentrepaymentcoverageof90%to100%

onloanssupportingforeignborrowers™purchasesofU.S.goodsandservicesandcoverageof90%onloans

toU.S.exportersofgoodsandservicestoforeignbuyers.Theloansgenerallyrangeupto$10million.The

outstandingbalancesofloansunderthoseprogramsatDecember31,2012and2011were$5millionand

$9million,respectively.
Loanssecuredbyrealestate,includingoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit
whichtheCompanyclassifiesasconsumerloans,representedapproximately66%oftheloanandlease

portfolioduring2012,comparedwith65%ineachof2011and2010.AtDecember31,2012,theCompany

heldapproximately$26.0billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$11.2billionofconsumerrealestateloans

securedbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialproperties(including$1.2billionofloansheldforsale)and

$6.3billionofoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,comparedwith$24.4billion,

$7.9billionand$6.7billion,respectively,atDecember31,2011.Includedintotalloansandleaseswere

amountsduefrombuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestateaggregating$1.2billionand$1.6billion

atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively,substantiallyallofwhichwereclassifiedascommercialreal

estateloans.
CommercialrealestateloansoriginatedbytheCompanyincludefixed-rateinstrumentswith
monthlypaymentsandaballoonpaymentoftheremainingunpaidprincipalatmaturity,inmanycasesfive

yearsafterorigination.Forborrowersingoodstanding,thetermsofsuchloansmaybeextendedbythe

customerforanadditionalfiveyearsatthethencurrentmarketrateofinterest.TheCompanyalso

originatesfixed-ratecommercialrealestateloanswithmaturitiesofgreaterthanfiveyears,generallyhaving

originalmaturitytermsofapproximatelyseventotenyears,andadjustable-ratecommercialrealestate

loans.Excludingconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestors,adjustable-ratecommercialreal

estateloansrepresentedapproximately60%ofthecommercialrealestateloanportfolioatthe2012year-

end.Table6presentscommercialrealestateloansbygeographicarea,typeofcollateralandsizeoftheloans

outstandingatDecember31,2012.NewYorkCitymetropolitanareacommercialrealestateloanstotaled

$8.7billionatDecember31,2012.The$7.0billionofinvestor-ownedcommercialrealestateloansinthe

NewYorkCitymetropolitanareawerelargelysecuredbymultifamilyresidentialproperties,retailspace,and

officespace.TheCompany™sexperiencehasbeenthatoffice,retailandservice-relatedpropertiestendto

demonstratemorevolatilefluctuationsinvaluethrougheconomiccyclesandchangingeconomic

conditionsthandomultifamilyresidentialproperties.Approximately48%oftheaggregatedollaramountof

NewYorkCity-arealoanswereforloanswithoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless,whileloansof

morethan$50millionmadeupapproximately11%ofthetotal.
51Table6
COMMERCIALREALESTATELOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2012
MetropolitanNewYork
CityOtherNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentof
Total(Dollarsinmillions)
Investor-ownedPermanentfinancebypropertytype
Retail..............................$2,262$477$412$1,021$522$4,69418%

Apartments/Multifamily................1,8054761923783763,22712

Office.............................1,1276713686162413,02312

Hotel..............................5983452303573271,8577

Industrial/Warehouse..................1891511723961441,0524

Healthfacilities.......................2416749115373921

Other.............................165445673794172
Totalpermanent..................
6,1702,3311,4792,9561,72614,66256%
Construction/DevelopmentCommercialConstruction......................4572812036631981,8027%

Land/Landdevelopment..............1892057180144602
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Construction......................12015841501164852

Land/Landdevelopment..............6722126435557053
Totalconstruction/development.......8333384701,4283833,45214%
Totalinvestor-owned......................7,0032,6691,9494,3842,10918,11470%
Owner-occupiedbyindustry(a)
Healthservices.......................7285932934432022,2599%

Otherservices........................224308272513361,3535

Retail..............................147198213275919244

Manufacturing.......................981541621191036362

Realestateinvestors....................106205151116306082

Automobiledealerships.................9859202203375992

Wholesale..........................10410978145104462

Other.............................145183264433301,0554
Totalowner-occupied
..............1,6501,8091,6352,2475397,88030%
Totalcommercialrealestate..................$8,653$4,478$3,584$6,631$2,648$25,994100%
Percentoftotal...........................33%17%14%26%10%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysizeofloan
Lessthan$1million........................5%23%22%17%7%14%

$1millionto$5million.....................244035341930

$5millionto$10million....................191718171517

$10millionto$30million...................311721183625

$30millionto$50million...................1024997

$50millionto$100million
...................71Š585
Greaterthan$100million
...................4ŠŠŠ62
Total..................................
100%100%100%100%100%100%
(a)Includes$269millionofconstructionloans.
52CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinotherpartsofNewYorkState,
PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareatendtohaveagreaterdiversityofcollateraltypesandincludea

significantamountoflendingtocustomerswhousethemortgagedpropertyintheirtradeorbusiness

(owner-occupied).Approximately80%oftheaggregatedollaramountofcommercialrealestateloansin

NewYorkStatesecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofthemetropolitanNewYorkCityareawereforloans

withoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.Oftheoutstandingbalancesofcommercialrealestateloans

inPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,approximately75%and68%,respectively,wereforloanswith

outstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.
CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofPennsylvania,theMid-Atlantic
area,NewYorkStateandareasofstatesneighboringNewYorkconsideredtobepartoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanarea,comprised10%oftotalcommercialrealestateloansasofDecember31,2012.
Commercialrealestateconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestorspresentedintable6
totaled$3.5billionatDecember31,2012,or5%oftotalloansandleases.Approximately95%ofthose

constructionloanshadadjustableinterestrates.Includedinsuchloansatthe2012year-endwere

$1.2billionofloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties.Informationaboutthecredit

performanceoftheCompany™sloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesis

includedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂTheremainderofthecommercialreal

estateconstructionloanportfoliowascomprisedofloansmadeforvariouspurposes,includingthe

constructionofofficebuildings,multifamilyresidentialhousing,retailspaceandothercommercial

development.M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,acommercialrealestatelendingsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
participatesintheDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)programoftheFederalNational

MortgageAssociation(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ),pursuanttowhichcommercialrealestateloansareoriginatedin

accordancewithtermsandconditionsspecifiedbyFannieMaeandsold.Underthisprogram,loansaresold

withpartialcreditrecoursetoM&TRealtyCapitalCorporation.Theamountofrecourseisgenerallylimited

toone-thirdofanycreditlossincurredbythepurchaseronanindividualloan,althoughinsomecasesthe

recourseamountislessthanone-thirdoftheoutstandingprincipalbalance.TheCompany™smaximum

creditriskforrecourseassociatedwithsoldcommercialrealestateloanswasapproximately$2.0billionand

$1.8billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasa

resultofthoserecoursearrangements.CommercialrealestateloansheldforsaleatDecember31,2012and

2011aggregated$200millionand$161million,respectively.AtDecember31,2012and2011,commercial

realestateloansservicedforotherinvestorsbytheCompanywere$10.6billionand$9.0billion,

respectively.ThoseservicedloansarenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Realestateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertieswere$11.2billionat
December31,2012,includingapproximately38%securedbypropertieslocatedinNewYorkState,13%

securedbypropertieslocatedinPennsylvaniaand23%securedbypropertieslocatedintheMid-Atlantic

area.AtDecember31,2012,$1.2billionofresidentialrealestateloanswereheldforsale,comparedwith

$210millionatDecember31,2011.Thesignificantincreaseinresidentialrealestateloansheldforsaleat

December31,2012ascomparedwithDecember31,2011reflectedtheCompany™sdecisiontooriginatefor

salethemajorityofsuchloansoriginatedafterAugust31,2012duetothesignificantgrowthinthe

residentialrealestateloanportfolioandthependingHudsonCityacquisition.Priorthereto,theCompany

hadbeenretainingmoreloansforitsportfolio.TheCompany™sportfolioofalternative(ﬁAlt-Aﬂ)residential

realestateloansheldforinvestmentatDecember31,2012declinedto$462millionfrom$542millionat

December31,2011.Alt-Aloansrepresentloansthatatoriginationtypicallyincludedsomeformoflimited

borrowerdocumentationrequirementsascomparedwithmoretraditionalresidentialrealestateloans.

LoansintheCompany™sAlt-AportfoliowereoriginatedbytheCompanypriorto2008.Loanstoindividuals

tofinancetheconstructionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiestotaled$39millionatDecember31,

2012and$43millionatDecember31,2011,orapproximately.1%oftotalloansandleasesateachofthose

dates.InformationaboutthecreditperformanceoftheCompany™sAlt-Aloansandotherresidentialreal

estateloansisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂ
Consumerloanscomprisedapproximately19%and21%oftheaverageloanportfolioduring2012
and2011,respectively.Thetwolargestcomponentsoftheconsumerloanportfolioareoutstandingbalances

ofhomeequitylinesofcreditandautomobileloans.Averagebalancesofhomeequitylinesofcredit

outstandingrepresentedapproximately9%and11%ofaverageloansoutstandingin2012and2011,
53respectively.Automobileloansrepresentedapproximately4%oftheCompany™saverageloanportfolio
during2012,comparedwith5%in2011.Nootherconsumerloanproductrepresentedmorethan3%of

averageloansoutstandingin2012.Approximately40%ofhomeequitylinesofcreditoutstandingat

December31,2012weresecuredbypropertiesinNewYorkState,and21%and37%weresecuredby

propertiesinPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,respectively.Averageoutstandingbalancesofhome

equitylinesofcreditwereapproximately$5.9billionineachof2012and2011.AtDecember31,2012,35%

and25%oftheautomobileloanportfolioweretocustomersresidinginNewYorkStateandPennsylvania,

respectively.Althoughautomobileloanshavegenerallybeenoriginatedthroughdealers,allapplications

submittedthroughdealersaresubjecttotheCompany™snormalunderwritingandloanapproval

procedures.Outstandingautomobileloanbalanceswere$2.5billionand$2.7billionatDecember31,2012

and2011,respectively.
Table7presentsthecompositionoftheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioattheendof2012,
includingoutstandingbalancestobusinessesandconsumersinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,theMid-

Atlanticareaandotherstates.Approximately44%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2012wereto

NewYorkStatecustomers,while18%and24%weretoPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareacustomers,

respectively.Table7
LOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2012
PercentofDollarsOutstanding
OutstandingsNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOther(Inmillions)
Realestate
Residential.............................$11,24138%13%23%26%
Commercial...........................25,99450(a)142610
Totalrealestate
.......................37,23547%13%25%15%
Commercial,financial,etc.
..................16,48944%26%19%11%
ConsumerHomeequitylines
.......................5,84540%21%37%2%
Homeequityloans
......................4771332505
Automobile............................2,50835252020
Othersecuredorguaranteed
..............2,05927151741
Otherunsecured
........................6703923344
Totalconsumer
.......................11,55936%21%30%13%
Totalloans
........................65,28344%18%24%14%
Commercialleases
........................1,28850%14%13%23%
Totalloansandleases
................$66,57144%18%24%14%
(a)Includesloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinneighboringstatesgenerallyconsideredtobewithincommuting
distanceofNewYorkCity.
Balancesofinvestmentsecuritiesaveraged$7.0billionin2012,comparedwith$7.1billionand
$8.0billionin2011and2010,respectively.Theslightdeclineinsuchbalancesin2012ascomparedwith

2011reflectstheimpactofmaturitiesandpaydownsofmortgage-backedsecurities,partiallyoffsetby

purchasesof$250millionofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbytheFederalHomeLoan

MortgageCorporation(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ)duringthesecondquarterof2012andthefull-yearimpactof

purchasesofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbyFannieMae,FreddieMacandthe
54GovernmentNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁGinnieMaeﬂ)during2011.The12%declineinaverage
investmentsecuritiesbalancesfrom2010to2011reflectstheimpactofsalesofinvestmentsecuritiesin2011,

aswellasmaturitiesandpaydownsofmortgage-backedsecurities.During2011,theCompanyrealizedgains

of$150millionfromthesaleofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,predominantlyresidentialmortgage-

backedsecuritiesguaranteedbyFannieMaeandFreddieMac,collateralizeddebtobligationsandtrust

preferredsecurities,havinganamortizedcostof$1.7billion.TheCompanysoldthesecuritiesinconnection

withtheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustinordertomanageitsbalancesheetsizeandcompositionand

resultantcapitalratios.Partiallyoffsettingthosefactorswerepurchasesofresidentialmortgage-backed

securitiesguaranteedbyFannieMae,FreddieMacandGinnieMaeaggregatingapproximately$3.3billion.

TheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionaddedapproximately$510milliontotheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio

ontheMay16,2011acquisitiondate.
Theinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioislargelycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesand
CMOs,debtsecuritiesissuedbymunicipalities,trustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbycertainfinancial

institutions,andshorter-termU.S.Treasuryandfederalagencynotes.Whenpurchasinginvestment

securities,theCompanyconsidersitsoverallinterest-rateriskprofileaswellastheadequacyofexpected

returnsrelativetorisksassumed,includingprepayments.Inmanagingitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,

theCompanyoccasionallysellsinvestmentsecuritiesasaresultofchangesininterestratesandspreads,

actualoranticipatedprepayments,creditriskassociatedwithaparticularsecurity,orasaresultof

restructuringitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioinconnectionwithabusinesscombination.
TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesfordeclinesinvaluebelowamortizedcost
thatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂOther-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$48

million(pre-tax)and$77million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2012and2011,respectively,relatedto

certainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans.Other-than-

temporaryimpairmentchargesof$86million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2010.Approximately

$68millionofthosechargesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialandcommercialreal

estateloans,$6millionrelatedtoCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions

and$12millionrelatedtoAmericanDepositaryShares(ﬁADSsﬂ)ofAlliedIrishBanks,p.l.c.(ﬁAIBﬂ).The

AIBADSswereobtainedinthe2003acquisitionofasubsidiaryofAIBandwereheldtosatisfyoptionsto

purchasesuchsharesgrantedbythatsubsidiarytocertainemployees.Factorscontributingtothe

impairmentchargeincludedmountingcreditandotherlossesincurredbyAIBandongoingIrish

governmentsupportthatdilutedAIBcommonshareholders.Persistentlyhighunemployment,depressed

realestatevaluesthathavebeenslowtorecoverandtheresultingincreasedloandelinquenciesand

foreclosuresthathaveledtoabacklogofhomesheldforsalebyfinancialinstitutionsandotherswere

significantfactorscontributingtotherecognitionoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelated

toCMOsandCDOs.Basedonmanagement™sassessmentoffuturecashflowsassociatedwithindividual

investmentsecurities,asofDecember31,2012,theCompanyconcludedthattheremainingdeclines

associatedwiththerestoftheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioweretemporaryinnature.Afurtherdiscussion

offairvaluesofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapital.ﬂAdditional

informationabouttheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioisincludedinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Otherearningassetsincludeinterest-earningdepositsattheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkand
otherbanks,tradingaccountassets,federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities.Thoseother

earningassetsintheaggregateaveraged$628millionin2012,$1.5billionin2011and$417millionin2010.

Interest-bearingdepositsatbanksaveraged$528millionin2012,comparedwith$1.2billionand$102

millionin2011and2010,respectively.Thesignificantlyhigherbalancesin2012and2011ascomparedwith

2010wereduetoincreaseddepositsattheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkresultinglargelyfromthe

businessesobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.Alsoreflectedinotherearningassetswere

purchasesofinvestmentsecuritiesunderagreementstoresell,whichaveraged$168millionand$214million

during2011and2010,respectively.Therewerenoagreementstoresellsecuritiesoutstandingduring2012.

Agreementstoresellsecurities,ofwhichtherewerenoneoutstandingatthe2012,2011and2010year-ends,

areaccountedforsimilartocollateralizedloans,withchangesinmarketvalueofthecollateralmonitoredby

theCompanytoensuresufficientcoverage.Theamountsofinvestmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets

heldbytheCompanyareinfluencedbysuchfactorsasdemandforloans,whichgenerallyyieldmorethan

investmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets,ongoingrepayments,thelevelsofdeposits,andmanagement

ofbalancesheetsizeandresultingcapitalratios.
55ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits.AprovisionoftheDodd-
FrankActthatwassignedintolawin2010permanentlyincreasedthemaximumamountofFDICdeposit

insuranceforfinancialinstitutionsto$250,000perdepositorfromthepreviouslimitof$100,000.Thus,

beginningin2011,theCompanydefinescoredepositsasnoninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearing

transactionaccounts,savingsdepositsandtimedepositsof$250,000orlessascoredeposits.Priorto

December31,2010timedepositsof$100,000orlesswereconsideredtobecoredeposits.TheCompany™s

branchnetworkisitsprincipalsourceofcoredeposits,whichgenerallycarrylowerinterestratesthan

wholesalefundsofcomparablematurities.Certificatesofdepositof$250,000orlessgeneratedona

nationwidebasisbyWilmingtonTrust,N.A.werealsoincludedincoredeposits.Averagecoredeposits

totaled$59.1billionin2012,upfrom$52.0billionin2011and$43.6billionin2010.Thechangeinthe

Company™sdefinitionofcoredepositstoincludetimedepositsfrom$100,000to$250,000increasedaverage

coredepositsbyapproximately$964millionin2011.TheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionadded

approximately$6.6billionofcoredepositsonMay16,2011.TheKBankacquisitiontransactionadded

$491millionofcoredepositsonNovember5,2010.AveragecoredepositsofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.were

$1.2billionin2012,$630millionin2011and$217millionin2010.Excludingtheimpactofthe

December31,2010changeintheCompany™sdefinitionofcoredepositsanddepositsobtainedin

acquisitiontransactions,thegrowthincoredepositsfrom2010to2012wasdue,inpart,tothelackof

attractivealternativeinvestmentsavailabletotheCompany™scustomersresultingfromlowerinterestrates

andfromtheeconomicenvironmentintheU.S.andhigherbalancesheldonbehalfoftrustcustomers.The

lowinterestrateenvironmenthasresultedinashiftincustomersavingstrends,asaveragetimedeposits

havecontinuedtodecline,whileaveragenoninterest-bearingdepositsandsavingsdepositshavegenerally

increased.Fundingprovidedbycoredepositsrepresented84%ofaverageearningassetsin2012,compared

with80%and73%in2011and2010,respectively.Table8summarizesaveragecoredepositsin2012and

percentagechangesinthecomponentsofsuchdepositsoverthepasttwoyears.Coredepositsaggregated

$62.7billionand$56.4billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.
Table8
AVERAGECOREDEPOSITS
PercentageIncrease
(Decrease)from
20122011to2012
2010to2011
(Inmillions)
NOWaccounts
............................................$83215%25%
Savingsdeposits
...........................................32,3541116
Timedeposits(a)
..........................................4,196(14)14
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.................................21,7612626
Total..................................................$59,14314%19%
(a)Averagetimedepositsconsideredcoredepositsin2012and2011representedtimedepositsof$250,000orless.In
2010,averagetimedepositsconsideredcoredepositswerethosewithbalanceslessthan$100,000.
AdditionalfundingsourcesfortheCompanyincludedbranch-relatedtimedepositsover$250,000,
depositsassociatedwiththeCompany™sCaymanIslandsoffice,andbrokereddeposits.Timedepositsover

$250,000,excludingbrokeredcertificatesofdeposit,averaged$410millionin2012and$491millionin

2011.Similartimedepositsover$100,000averaged$1.7billion2010.CaymanIslandsofficedeposits

averaged$605millionin2012,$779millionin2011and$1.0billionin2010.Averagebrokeredtime

depositstotaled$741millionin2012,comparedwith$1.1billionin2011and$642millionin2010,andat

December31,2012and2011totaled$462millionand$1.0billion,respectively.Brokeredtimedeposits

obtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrusttotaled$1.4billionasofMay16,2011.TheCompanyalso

hadbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccounts,whichintheaggregateaveraged

$1.1billion,$1.3billionand$1.2billionin2012,2011and2010,respectively.ThelevelsofbrokeredNOW

andbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccountsreflectthedemandforsuchdeposits,largelyresultingfrom

continueduncertaineconomicmarketsandthedesireofbrokeragefirmstoearnreasonableyieldswhile

ensuringthatcustomerdepositsarefullyinsured.ThelevelofCaymanIslandsofficedepositsandbrokered
56depositsarealsoreflectiveofcustomerdemand.Additionalamountsofsuchdepositsmaybeaddedinthe
futuredependingonmarketconditions,includingdemandbycustomersandotherinvestorsforthose

deposits,andthecostoffundsavailablefromalternativesourcesatthetime.
TheCompanyalsousesborrowingsfrombanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHomeLoan
Banks,theFederalReserveBankandothersassourcesoffunding.Short-termborrowingsaveraged

$839millionin2012,$827millionin2011and$1.9billionin2010.Includedinshort-termborrowingswere

unsecuredfederalfundsborrowings,whichgenerallymatureonthenextbusinessday,thataveraged

$669million,$593millionand$1.7billionin2012,2011and2010,respectively.Overnightfederalfunds

borrowingsrepresentedthelargestcomponentofaverageshort-termborrowingsandtotaled$939millionat

December31,2012and$590millionatDecember31,2011.
Long-termborrowingsaveraged$5.5billionin2012,$7.0billionin2011and$9.2billionin2010.
Includedinaveragelong-termborrowingswereamountsborrowedfromFHLBsof$768millionin2012,

$1.9billionin2011and$4.2billionin2010,andsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$2.0billionineachof2012

and2011and$1.8billionin2010.OnJuly2,2012,M&TBankredeemed$400millionofsubordinated

capitalnotesthatwereduetomaturein2013,assuchnotesceasedtoqualifyasregulatorycapitalduringthe

one-yearperiodbeforetheircontractualmaturitydate.Subordinatedcapitalnotesassumedinconnection

withtheWilmingtonTrustacquisitiontotaled$450millionatMay16,2011.TheCompanyhasutilized

interestrateswapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertaincomponentsoflong-term

debt.AsofDecember31,2012,interestrateswapagreementswereusedtohedgeapproximately

$900millionoffixedratesubordinatednotes.Furtherinformationoninterestrateswapagreementsis

providedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrust

preferredsecuritiesthatwereincludedinaveragelong-termborrowingswere$1.2billionineachof2012,

2011and2010.Additionalinformationregardingjuniorsubordinateddebentures,aswellasinformation

regardingcontractualmaturitiesoflong-termborrowings,isprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Alsoincludedinlong-termborrowingswereagreementstorepurchasesecurities,which

averaged$1.4billionduring2012,$1.5billionduring2011and$1.6billionduring2010.Theagreements

havevariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesoftheunderlyingsecurities

extendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.
ChangesinthecompositionoftheCompany™searningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,as
discussedherein,aswellaschangesininterestratesandspreads,canimpactnetinterestincome.Netinterest

spread,orthedifferencebetweenthetaxable-equivalentyieldonearningassetsandtheratepaidoninterest-

bearingliabilities,was3.48%ineachof2012and2011,comparedwith3.59%in2010.Theyieldonthe

Company™searningassetsdecreased13basispointsto4.22%in2012from4.35%in2011,whiletherate

paidoninterest-bearingliabilitiesalsodeclined13basispointsto.74%in2012from.87%in2011.Theyield

onearningassetsduring2011declined26basispointsfrom4.61%in2010,whiletheratepaidoninterest-

bearingliabilitiesdecreased15basispointsfrom1.02%in2010.TheFederalOpenMarketCommittee

(ﬁFOMCﬂ)notedinJanuary2013thatahighlyaccommodativestanceonmonetarypolicywillremain

appropriateforaconsiderabletimeafteritsassetpurchaseprogramendsandtheeconomicrecovery

strengthens.Inparticular,theFOMCdecidedtokeepthetargetrangeforthefederalfundsrateat0%to

.25%andcurrentlyanticipatesthatthisexceptionallylowrangeforthefederalfundsratewillbeappropriate

aslongastheunemploymentrateremainsabove6.5%,inflationbetweenoneandtwoyearsaheadis

projectedtobenomorethanahalfpercentagepointabovetheFOMC™stwopercentlonger-rungoal,and

longer-terminflationexpectationscontinuetobewellanchored.
Netinterest-freefundsconsistlargelyofnoninterest-bearingdemanddepositsandshareholders™
equity,partiallyoffsetbybankownedlifeinsuranceandnon-earningassets,includinggoodwillandcore

depositandotherintangibleassets.Netinterest-freefundsaveraged$23.7billionin2012,comparedwith

$18.5billionin2011and$14.4billionin2010.Thesignificantincreasesinaveragenetinterest-freefundsin

2012and2011werelargelytheresultofhigherbalancesofnoninterest-bearingdeposits,whichaveraged

$21.8billionin2012,$17.3billionin2011and$13.7billionin2010.InconnectionwiththeWilmington

Trustacquisition,theCompanyaddednoninterest-bearingdepositstotaling$2.0billionattheacquisition

date.Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsaveraged$3.7billionineachof2012,2011and

2010.CoredepositandotherintangibleassetsaddedfromtheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionwere$112

milliononMay16,2011.Thecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlifeinsuranceaveraged$1.6billionin

2012and$1.5billionineachof2011and2010.Increasesinthecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlife

insurancearenotincludedininterestincome,butratherarerecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂ

Thecontributionofnetinterest-freefundstonetinterestmarginwas.25%ineachof2012,2011and2010.
57Reflectingthechangestothenetinterestspreadandthecontributionofnetinterest-freefundsas
describedherein,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwas3.73%ineachof2012and2011,comparedwith

3.84%in2010.Futurechangesinmarketinterestratesorspreads,aswellaschangesinthecompositionof

theCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesthatresultinreductionsin

spreads,couldadverselyimpacttheCompany™snetinterestincomeandnetinterestmargin.Inparticular,

therelativelylowinterestrateenvironmentcontinuestoexertdownwardpressureonyieldsonloans,

investmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets.
Managementassessesthepotentialimpactoffuturechangesininterestratesandspreadsby
projectingnetinterestincomeunderseveralinterestratescenarios.Inmanaginginterestraterisk,the

Companyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertain

portionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities.Periodicsettlementamounts

arisingfromtheseagreementsaregenerallyreflectedineithertheyieldsearnedonassetsortheratespaidon

interest-bearingliabilities.Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterest

rateriskmanagementpurposeswas$900millionateachofDecember31,2012and2011.Undertheterms

ofthoseswapagreements,theCompanyreceivedpaymentsbasedontheoutstandingnotionalamountof

theagreementsatfixedratesandmadepaymentsatvariablerates.Thoseswapagreementsweredesignated

asfairvaluehedgesofcertainfixedratelong-termborrowings.Therewerenointerestrateswapagreements

designatedascashflowhedgesatthoserespectivedates.
Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvalueofthederivative(theinterestrateswapagreement)andchangesin
thefairvalueofthehedgeditemarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalue

oftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,

unlikeinafairvaluehedge,theeffectiveportionofthederivative™sgainorlossisinitiallyreportedasa

componentofothercomprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedintoearningswhentheforecasted

transactionaffectsearnings.Theineffectiveportionofthegainorlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfrom

operationsﬂimmediately.Theamountsofhedgeineffectivenessrecognizedin2012,2011and2010werenot

materialtotheCompany™sresultsofoperations.Theestimatedaggregatefairvalueofinterestrateswap

agreementsdesignatedasfairvaluehedgesrepresentedgainsofapproximately$143millionatDecember31,

2012and$147millionatDecember31,2011.Thefairvaluesofsuchswapagreementsweresubstantially

offsetbychangesinthefairvaluesofthehedgeditems.Thechangesinthefairvaluesoftheinterestrate

swapagreementsandthehedgeditemsprimarilyresultfromtheeffectsofchanginginterestratesand

spreads.TheCompany™screditexposureasofDecember31,2012withrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueof

interestrateswapagreementsusedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthrough

masternettingarrangementswithtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartyaswell

ascounterpartypostingsof$69millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Additionalinformationaboutswap

agreementsandtheitemsbeinghedgedisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theaverage

notionalamountsofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes,

therelatedeffectonnetinterestincomeandmargin,andtheweighted-averageinterestratespaidorreceived

onthoseswapagreementsarepresentedintable9.
58Table9
INTERESTRATESWAPAGREEMENTS
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)(Dollarsinthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Interestincome
...................$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%
Interestexpense
...................(36,368)(.08)(37,709)(.08)(41,885)(.09)
Netinterestincome/margin
.........$
36,368.05%$37,709.06%$41,885.07%
Averagenotionalamount
.............$900,000$900,000$1,012,786
Ratereceived(b)
.....................6.07%6.07%6.27%
Ratepaid(b)
........................2.03%1.88%2.14%
(a)Computedasapercentageofaverageearningassetsorinterest-bearingliabilities.
(b)Weighted-averageratepaidorreceivedoninterestrateswapagreementsineffectduringyear.
ProvisionforCreditLosses
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentappropriately

reflectslossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjustthe

leveloftheallowanceasdeemednecessarybymanagement.Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$204million

in2012,comparedwith$270millionin2011and$368millionin2010.Netloancharge-offsaggregated

$186millionin2012,$265millionin2011and$346millionin2010.Netloancharge-offsasapercentageof

averageloansoutstandingwere.30%in2012,comparedwith.47%in2011and.67%in2010.Whilethe

Companyhasexperiencedimprovementinitscreditqualitymetricsduringthepastfewyears,sluggish

economicactivity,relativelyhighunemploymentrates,generallydepressedrealestatevaluationsandhigher

thannormallevelsofdelinquenciesandcharge-offshavesignificantlyaffectedthecreditperformanceofthe

Company™sloanportfolios.Inparticular,theCompany™sAlt-Aresidentialrealestateloanportfolioandits

residentialrealestatebuilderanddeveloperloanportfolioexperiencedthemajorityofthecreditproblems

relatedtotheturmoilintheresidentialrealestatemarketplace.TheCompanyalsoexperiencedhigherlevels

ofcommercialloanandconsumerloancharge-offsoverthepastfiveyearsascomparedwithyears

precedingtheeconomicdownturnin2008.AsummaryoftheCompany™sloancharge-offs,provisionand

allowanceforcreditlossesispresentedintable10andinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
59Table10
LOANCHARGE-OFFS,PROVISIONANDALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSES
20122011201020092008(Dollarsinthousands)
Allowanceforcreditlossesbeginning
balance..............................$908,290$902,941$878,022$787,904$759,439
Charge-offsduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......41,14855,02191,650180,119102,092
RealestateŠconstruction
..............27,68763,52986,603127,728105,940
RealestateŠmortgage
.................58,57281,691108,50095,10973,485
Consumer...........................103,348109,246125,593153,506139,138
Totalcharge-offs
....................230,755309,487412,346556,462420,655
Recoveriesduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......11,37510,22426,6217,9998,587
RealestateŠconstruction
..............3,6935,9304,9752,623369
RealestateŠmortgage
.................8,84710,44410,9546,9174,069
Consumer...........................20,41018,23823,96325,04124,620
Totalrecoveries
.....................44,32544,83666,51342,58037,645
Netcharge-offs
.........................186,430264,651345,833513,882383,010
Provisionforcreditlosses
.................204,000270,000368,000604,000412,000
Allowancerelatedtoloanssoldor
securitized...........................ŠŠŠŠ(525)Consolidationofloansecuritizationtrusts...ŠŠ2,752ŠŠ
Allowanceforcreditlossesendingbalance...$925,860$908,290$902,941$878,022$787,904
Netcharge-offsasapercentof:
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............91.39%98.02%93.98%85.08%92.96%
Averageloansandleases,netofunearned
discount............................30%.47%.67%1.01%.78%
Allowanceforcreditlossesasapercentof
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount,

atyear-end
...........................1.39%1.51%1.74%1.69%1.61%
Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfair
valuewithnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueof

theacquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscounting

thosecashflowsatthen-currentinterestrates.Theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionoverthe

estimatedfairvalueisbeingrecognizedasinterestincomeoverthelivesoftheloans.Thedifferencebetween

contractuallyrequiredpaymentsandthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedisreferredtoasthe

nonaccretablebalanceandisnotrecordedontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thenonaccretablebalance

reflectsestimatedfuturecreditlossesandothercontractuallyrequiredpaymentsthattheCompanydoesnot

expecttocollect.TheCompanyregularlyevaluatesthereasonablenessofitscashflowprojections.Any

decreasestotheexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowance

forcreditlossesandcouldleadtocharge-offsofacquiredloanbalances.Anysignificantincreasesin

expectedcashflowsresultinadditionalinterestincometoberecognizedoverthethen-remaininglivesof

theloans.Thecarryingamountofloansobtainedinacquisitionssubsequentto2008was$5.8billionand

$8.2billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Theportionofthenonaccretablebalancerelatedto

remainingprincipallossesaswellaslife-to-dateprincipallosseschargedagainstthenonaccretablebalance

asofDecember31,2012and2011arepresentedintable11.
60Table11
NONACCRETABLEBALANCEŠPRINCIPAL
RemainingBalance
Life-to-dateCharges
December31,
2012December31,
2011December31,
2012December31,
2011(Inthousands)
Commercial,financing,leasing,etc
..............$
40,198$56,059$63,190$55,086
Commercialrealestate
........................285,681470,788262,062208,770
Residentialrealestate
.........................36,47166,42446,84229,983
Consumer..................................50,85693,73463,13242,424
Total.....................................$413,206$687,005$435,226$336,263
TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitscashflowprojectionsforacquiredloans,includingitsestimatesof
lifetimeprincipallosses.Ingeneral,basedonstabilizingeconomicconditionsandtheCompany™ssuccessat

restructuringseverallargeacquiredloans,theestimatesofcashflowsexpectedtobegeneratedbyacquired

loansincreasedbyapproximately2%,or$178million,in2012.Thatimprovementreflectedaloweringof

estimatedprincipallossesbyapproximately$175million,largelydrivenbya$132milliondecreasein

expectedprincipallossesintheacquiredcommercialrealestateportfolios.Theincreasesinprojectedcash

flows,includingboththe$175millionofprincipalreferredtoaboveandinterestpaymentsrelatedthereto,

resultedina$200milliontransferfromthenonaccretablebalancetotheaccretableyield.Approximately

$45millionofthattransferwasrecognizedasinterestincomein2012.Theremainderwillberecognizedas

interestincomeinsubsequentyears.
Nonaccrualloanstotaled$1.01billionor1.52%ofoutstandingloansandleasesatDecember31,
2012,comparedwith$1.10billionor1.83%atDecember31,2011and$1.14billionor2.19%at

December31,2010.Additionstononaccrualloansduring2012weremorethanoffsetbytheimpactonsuch

loansfrompaymentsreceivedandcharge-offs.Duringthefourthquarterof2012,arelationshipwithalong-

timecustomerwithloansof$64millionwasplacedonnonaccrualstatus.Theloansweresecuredby

residentialrealestateanddeemedwell-collateralizedbytheCompanyasofDecember31,2012.Thelargest

relationshipthatwasaddedtononaccrualloansin2011wasa$20millionloantoabuilderanddeveloperof

residentialrealestatepropertiesintheMid-Atlanticarea.Softnessintheresidentialrealestatemarketplace

hasresultedindepressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsofdelinquencies,bothforloanstoconsumersand

loanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.ConditionsintheU.S.economyhaveresultedin

generallyhigherlevelsofnonaccrualloansthanhistoricallyexperiencedbytheCompany.
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(excludingacquiredloans)were$358millionor.54%of
totalloansandleasesatDecember31,2012,comparedwith$288millionor.48%atDecember31,2011and

$251millionor.48%atDecember31,2010.Thoseloansincludedloansguaranteedbygovernment-related

entitiesof$316million,$253millionand$207millionatDecember31,2012,2011and2010,respectively.

Suchguaranteedloansincludedone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansservicedbytheCompanythat

wererepurchasedtoreduceservicingcosts,includingarequirementtoadvanceprincipalandinterest

paymentsthathadnotbeenreceivedfromindividualmortgagors.Despitetheloansbeingpurchasedbythe

Company,theinsuranceorguaranteebytheapplicablegovernment-relatedentityremainsinforce.The

outstandingprincipalbalancesoftherepurchasedloansarefullyguaranteedbygovernment-relatedentities

andtotaled$294millionatDecember31,2012,$241millionatDecember31,2011and$191millionat

December31,2010.Asummaryofnonperformingassetsandcertainpastdue,renegotiatedandimpaired

loandataandcreditqualityratiosispresentedintable12.
61Table12
NONPERFORMINGASSETANDPASTDUE,RENEGOTIATEDANDIMPAIREDLOANDATA
December31
20122011201020092008(Dollarsinthousands)
Nonaccrualloans
............................$1,
013,176$1,097,581$1,139,740$1,255,552$755,397
Realestateandotherforeclosedassets.............
104,279156,592220,04994,60499,617
Totalnonperformingassets....................$1,
117,455$1,254,173$1,359,789$1,350,156$855,014
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a)........$
358,397$287,876$250,705$205,172$158,991
Governmentguaranteedloansincludedintotalsabove:
Nonaccrualloans
..........................$57,420$40,529$39,883$37,658$32,506
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore........
316,403252,503207,243193,495114,183
Renegotiatedloans...........................$
271,971$214,379$233,342$212,548$91,575
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysor
more(b).................................$
166,554$163,738$91,022$55,638$Š
Purchasedimpairedloans(c):
Outstandingcustomerbalance................$
828,571$1,267,762$219,477$172,772Š
Carryingamount..........................
447,114653,36297,01988,170Š
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netof
unearneddiscount.........................1.52%1.83%2.19%2.42%1.54%
Nonperformingassetstototalnetloansandleasesand
realestateandotherforeclosedassets...........1.68%2.08%2.60%2.59%1.74%
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a)tototal
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount........54%.48%.48%.40%.32%
(a)Excludesacquiredloans.Predominantlyresidentialmortgageloans.
(b)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotincludepurchased
impairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(c)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandrecordedatfairvalue.
Purchasedimpairedloansareloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008thatas
oftheacquisitiondatewerespecificallyidentifiedasdisplayingsignsofcreditdeteriorationandforwhich

theCompanydidnotexpecttocollectalloutstandingprincipalandcontractuallyrequiredinterest

payments.Thoseloanswereimpairedatthedateofacquisition,wererecordedatestimatedfairvalueand

weregenerallydelinquentinpayments,but,inaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycontinuestoaccrue

interestincomeonsuchloansbasedontheestimatedexpectedcashflowsassociatedwiththeloans.The

carryingamountofsuchloanswas$447millionatDecember31,2012,orlessthan1%oftotalloans.Ofthat

amount,$416millionrelatedtotheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.Purchasedimpairedloanstotaled$653

millionatDecember31,2011.Thedeclineinsuchloansduring2012waspredominantlytheresultof

paymentsrecoveredfromcustomers.
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysormoreareloansthatcouldnotbespecificallyidentifiedas
impairedasoftheacquisitiondate,butwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueasofsuchdate.Suchloans

totaledto$167millionatDecember31,2012,comparedwith$164millionatDecember31,2011.
Inanefforttoassistborrowers,theCompanymodifiedthetermsofselectloans.Iftheborrowerwas
experiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionwasgranted,theCompanyconsiderssuchmodifications

astroubleddebtrestructurings.Loanmodificationsincludedsuchactionsastheextensionofloanmaturity

datesandtheloweringofinterestratesandmonthlypayments.Theobjectiveofthemodificationswasto

increaseloanrepaymentsbycustomersandtherebyreducenetcharge-offs.InaccordancewithGAAP,the

modifiedloansareincludedinimpairedloansforpurposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowancefor

creditlosses.Informationaboutmodificationsofloansthatareconsideredtroubleddebtrestructuringsis

includedinnote4ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
62Residentialrealestateloansmodifiedunderspecifiedlossmitigationprogramsprescribedby
governmentguarantorshavenotbeenincludedinrenegotiatedloansbecausetheloanguaranteeremainsin

fullforceand,accordingly,theCompanyhasnotgrantedaconcessionwithrespecttotheultimate

collectionoftheoriginalloanbalance.Suchloansaggregated$167millionand$143millionat

December31,2012andDecember31,2011,respectively.
Charge-offsofcommercialloansandleases,netofrecoveries,were$30millionin2012,$45million
in2011and$65millionin2010.Commercialloansandleasesinnonaccrualstatuswere$152millionat

December31,2012,$164millionatDecember31,2011and$173millionatDecember31,2010.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialrealestateloansduring2012,2011and2010aggregated$36million,
$77millionand$118million,respectively.Reflectedin2012™scharge-offswere$23millionofloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers,comparedwith$55millionand$71millionin2011and2010,

respectively.Commercialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualtotaled$412millionatDecember31,

2012,comparedwith$559millionatDecember31,2011and$617millionatDecember31,2010.The

declineinsuchloansfromthe2011yearendtoDecember31,2012waslargelyattributabletotheimpactof

apayoffin2012™ssecondquarterofa$58millionconstructionloantoanowner/operatorofretirementand

assistedlivingfacilities,otherpaymentsreceived,and,toalesserextent,charge-offsofcommercialreal

estateloans.Thedeclineincommercialrealestateloansinnonaccrualstatusfromthe2010year-endto

December31,2011resultedlargelyfroma$35milliondecreaseinsuchloanstohomebuildersand

developers,charge-offsofothercommercialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualandpaymentsreceived.

AtDecember31,2012and2011,commercialrealestateloanstoresidentialhomebuildersanddevelopers

classifiedasnonaccrualaggregated$182millionand$281million,respectively,comparedwith$317million

atDecember31,2010.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offloanstoresidential

realestatebuildersanddevelopersasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2012ispresentedintable13.
Table13
RESIDENTIALBUILDERANDDEVELOPERLOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2012
YearEnded
December31,2012
NonaccrualNetCharge-offs(Recoveries)
OutstandingBalances(a)BalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentofAverage
OutstandingBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
NewYork
...........................$
186,564$10,0055.36%$1,134.69%
Pennsylvania........................205,99273,61535.741,322.53
Mid-Atlantic........................649,47991,79814.1321,3652.76
Other..............................190,1469,4484.97(334)(.16)
Total...............................$1,232,181$184,86615.00%$23,4871.69%
(a)Includesapproximately$42millionofloansnotsecuredbyrealestate,ofwhichapproximately$3millionarein
nonaccrualstatus.
Netcharge-offsofresidentialrealestateloanswere$38millionin2012,$52millionin2011and
$61millionin2010.Nonaccrualresidentialrealestateloansattheendof2012totaled$345million,

comparedwith$278millionand$268millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Theincreasein

residentialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualfromDecember31,2011toDecember31,2012was

predominantlyrelatedtotheadditionof$64millionofloanstoonecustomerthataresecuredbyresidential

realestate.Depressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsofdelinquencieshavecontributedtothehigherthan

historicallevelsofresidentialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualatthethreemostrecentyear-endsand

totheelevatedlevelsofcharge-offs.Netcharge-offsofAlt-Aloanswere$20millionin2012,$32millionin

2011and$34millionin2010.NonaccrualAlt-Aloansaggregated$96millionatDecember31,2012,

comparedwith$105millionand$106millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Residentialreal

estateloanspastdue90daysormoreandaccruinginterest(excludingacquiredloans)totaled$313million,

$250millionand$192millionatDecember31,2012,2011and2010,respectively.Asubstantialportionof

suchamountsrelatedtoguaranteedloansrepurchasedfromgovernment-relatedentities.Informationabout
63thelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offresidentialrealestateloansasofandfortheyearended
December31,2012ispresentedintable14.
Consumerloannetcharge-offsduring2012totaled$83million,comparedwith$91millionin2011
and$102millionin2010.Netcharge-offsofconsumerloansincluded:automobileloansof$14million

during2012,$22millionduring2011and$32millionduring2010;recreationalvehicleloansof$18million,

$21millionand$23millionduring2012,2011and2010,respectively;andhomeequityloansandlinesof

creditsecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiesof$31millionduring2012and2010,compared

with$33millionduring2011.Nonaccrualconsumerloanswere$104millionatDecember31,2012,

comparedwith$97millionand$80millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Includedin

nonaccrualconsumerloansandleasesatthe2012,2011and2010year-endswere:automobileloansof

$25million,$27millionand$32million,respectively;recreationalvehicleloansof$10million,$13million

and$12million;andoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,includingjuniorlien

Alt-Aloans,of$58million,$47millionand$33million,respectively.Informationaboutthelocationof

nonaccrualandcharged-offhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,

2012ispresentedintable14.
64Table14
SELECTEDRESIDENTIALREALESTATE-RELATEDLOANDATA
YearEnded
December31,2012
December31,2012
NetCharge-offs
NonaccrualPercentof
AverageOutstandingBalancesOutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
Residentialmortgages
NewYork
...............................................$
4,175,829$63,8711.53%$3,006.08%
Pennsylvania.............................................1,463,59517,8261.223,211.25
Mid-Atlantic.............................................2,446,51936,9631.514,077.19
Other...................................................2,669,467128,4484.816,971.33
Total...................................................$10,755,410$247,1082.30%$17,265.19%
Residentialconstructionloans
NewYork
...............................................$
5,203$62411.99%$4497.92%
Pennsylvania.............................................2,45926010.57783.19
Mid-Atlantic.............................................9,1381481.62ŠŠ
Other...................................................22,1061,1745.314712.38
Total...................................................$
38,906$2,2065.67%$9982.53%
Alt-Afirstmortgages
NewYork
...............................................$
72,020$19,56627.17%$2,6393.45%
Pennsylvania.............................................14,4742,36816.365533.41
Mid-Atlantic.............................................85,62015,22417.781,9982.19
Other...................................................274,40758,65021.3714,5194.87
Total...................................................$
446,521$95,80821.46%$19,7094.09%
Alt-Ajuniorlien
NewYork
...............................................$
1,906$19710.34%$1858.92%
Pennsylvania.............................................51836
6.95284.90
Mid-Atlantic.............................................3,501912.602998.00
Other...................................................9,8395875.972,08418.91
Total...................................................$
15,764$9115.78%$2,59614.92%
Firstlienhomeequityloans
NewYork
...............................................$
19,423$8114.18%$92.40%
Pennsylvania.............................................99,9323,3553.36695.57
Mid-Atlantic.............................................91,491723.79592.57
Other...................................................87666
7.53333.67
Total...................................................$
211,722$4,9552.34%$1,412.56%
Firstlienhomeequitylines
NewYork
...............................................$
942,795$3,914.42%$593.06%
Pennsylvania.............................................650,3733,492.54842.13
Mid-Atlantic.............................................563,8781,769.31703.13
Other...................................................19,1461,1636.072.01
Total...................................................$
2,176,192$10,338.48%$2,140.10%
Juniorlienhomeequityloans
NewYork
...............................................$
42,029$3,3668.01%$8291.63%
Pennsylvania.............................................49,2241,1102.25510.85
Mid-Atlantic.............................................143,9721,5891.10699.41
Other...................................................13,863105.762341.47
Total...................................................$
249,088$6,1702.48%$2,272.77%
Juniorlienhomeequitylines
NewYork
...............................................$
1,431,453$25,9341.81%$14,234.95%
Pennsylvania.............................................559,0592,725.492,363.40
Mid-Atlantic.............................................1,586,1294,583.295,129.31
Other...................................................92,5432,4552.65921.90
Total...................................................$
3,669,184$35,697.97%$22,647.59%
65InformationaboutpastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2012isalsoincludedinnote4
ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Managementdeterminedtheallowanceforcreditlossesbyperformingongoingevaluationsofthe
loanandleaseportfolio,includingsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociatedwitheachloan

category,thefinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentinwhichborrowers

operate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,theexistenceofany

guaranteesorindemnifications.Managementevaluatedtheimpactofchangesininterestratesandoverall

economicconditionsontheabilityofborrowerstomeetrepaymentobligationswhenquantifyingthe

Company™sexposuretotheallowanceforsuchlossesasofeachreportingdate.Factorsalsoconsideredby

managementwhenperformingitsassessment,inadditiontogeneraleconomicconditionsandtheother

factorsdescribedabove,included,butwerenotlimitedto:(i)theimpactofresidentialrealestatevalueson

theCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersandotherloanssecured

byresidentialrealestate;(ii)theconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloan

portfolio;(iii)theamountofcommercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkState

outsideoftheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistorically

experiencedlesseconomicgrowthandvitalitythanthevastmajorityofotherregionsofthecountry;(iv)the

repaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sfirstandsecondlienloanssecuredbyresidential

realestate;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,whichhistorically

haveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloansoutstandingthanotherloantypes.Thelevel

oftheallowanceisadjustedbasedontheresultsofmanagement™sanalysis.
Managementcautiouslyandconservativelyevaluatedtheallowanceforcreditlossesasof
December31,2012inlightof:(i)residentialrealestatevaluesandthelevelofdelinquenciesofloanssecured

byresidentialrealestateloans;(ii)economicconditionsinthemarketsservedbytheCompany;

(iii)continuingweaknessinindustrialemploymentinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania;(iv)the

significantsubjectivityinvolvedincommercialrealestatevaluationsforpropertieslocatedinareaswith

stagnantorlowgrowtheconomies;and(v)theamountofloangrowthexperiencedbytheCompany.While

therehasbeengeneralimprovementineconomicconditions,concernscontinuetoexistaboutthestrength

ofsuchimprovementinbothnationalandinternationalmarkets;thelevelandvolatilityofenergyprices;the

slowlystrengtheningbutstilldepressedhousingmarket;thetroubledstateoffinancialandcreditmarkets;

FederalReservepositioningofmonetarypolicy;highlevelsofunemployment;continuedstagnant

populationgrowthintheupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions;andcontinueduncertainty

aboutpossibleresponsestostateandlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficits.AlthoughtheU.S.economy

experiencedrecessionandweakeconomicconditionsduringrecentyears,theimpactofthoseconditions

wasnotaspronouncedonborrowersinthetraditionallyslowergrowthregionsofupstateNewYorkand

centralPennsylvania.Approximately60%oftheCompany™sloansaretocustomersinNewYorkStateand

Pennsylvania.HomepricesinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniawererelativelystableinrecent

years,incontrasttodeclinesinvaluesinmanyotherregionsofthecountry.Therefore,despitethe

conditions,aspreviouslydescribed,themostseverecreditissuesexperiencedbytheCompanyduringthe

recentfinancialdownturnwerecenteredaroundresidentialrealestate,includingloanstobuildersand

developersofresidentialrealestate,inareasotherthanNewYorkStateandPennsylvania.
TheCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialreal
estateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiateriskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectations

ofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationof

defaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloangradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhen

determiningtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loanswithanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedas

ﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticized

loansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂiftheCompanynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingto

thecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Reflectingmore

stableeconomicconditionsintheregionsservedbytheCompanyandcontinuedworkoutsofproblem

credits,criticizedcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswere$2.4billionatDecember31,2012,

comparedwith$2.8billionatDecember31,2011.Loanofficerswiththesupportofloanreviewpersonnelin

differentgeographiclocationsareresponsibletocontinuouslyreviewandreassignloangradestopassand

criticizedloansbasedontheirdetailedknowledgeofindividualborrowersandtheirjudgmentoftheimpact

onsuchborrowersresultingfromchangingconditionsintheirrespectivegeographicregions.Onaquarterly

basis,theCompany™scentralizedloanreviewdepartmentreviewsallcriticizedcommercialandcommercial

realestateloansgreaterthan$1milliontodeterminetheappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,
66includingwhethertheloanshouldbereportedasaccruingornonaccruing.Forcriticizednonaccrualloans,
additionalmeetingsareheldwithloanofficersandtheirmanagers,workoutspecialistsandsenior

managementtodiscusseachoftherelationships.Inanalyzingcriticizedloans,borrower-specific

informationisreviewed,includingoperatingresults,expectedcashflows,recentdevelopmentsandthe

borrower™soutlook,andotherpertinentdata.Thetimingandextentofpotentiallosses,considering

collateralvaluationandotherfactors,andtheCompany™spotentialcoursesofactionarereviewed.Tothe

extentthattheseloansarecollateral-dependent,theyareevaluatedbasedonthefairvalueoftheloan™s

collateralasestimatedatornearthefinancialstatementdate.Asthequalityofaloandeterioratestothe

pointofclassifyingtheloanasﬁcriticized,ﬂtheprocessofobtainingupdatedcollateralvaluationinformation

isusuallyinitiated,unlessitisnotconsideredwarrantedgivenfactorssuchastherelativesizeoftheloan,the

characteristicsofthecollateralortheageofthelastvaluation.Inthosecaseswherecurrentappraisalsmay

notyetbeavailable,priorappraisalsareutilizedwithadjustments,asdeemednecessary,forestimatesof

subsequentdeclinesinvalueasdeterminedbylineofbusinessand/orloanworkoutpersonnelinthe

respectivegeographicregions.Thoseadjustmentsarereviewedandassessedforreasonablenessbythe

Company™sloanreviewdepartment.Accordingly,forrealestatecollateralsecuringlargercommercialand

commercialrealestateloans,estimatedcollateralvaluesarebasedoncurrentappraisalsandestimatesof

value.Fornon-realestateloans,collateralisassignedadiscountedestimatedliquidationvalueand,

dependingonthenatureofthecollateral,isverifiedthroughfieldexamsorotherprocedures.Inassessing

collateral,realestateandnon-realestatevaluesarereducedbyanestimateofsellingcosts.Withregardto

residentialrealestateloans,theCompanyexpandeditscollectionsandloanworkoutstaffandfurther

refineditslossidentificationandestimationtechniquesbyreferencetoloanperformanceandhouseprice

depreciationdatainspecificareasofthecountrywherecollateralthatwassecuringtheCompany™s

residentialrealestateloanswaslocated.Forresidentialrealestate-relatedloans,includinghomeequityloans

andlinesofcredit,theexcessoftheloanbalanceoverthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizing

theloanischarged-offwhentheloanbecomes150daysdelinquent.Thatcharge-offisbasedonrecent

indicationsofvaluefromexternalpartiesthataregenerallyobtainedshortlyafteraloanbecomes

nonaccrual.AtDecember31,2012approximately38%oftheCompany™shomeequityportfolioconsistedof

firstlienloans.Oftheremainingjuniorlienloansintheportfolio,approximately83%(orapproximately

53%oftheaggregatehomeequityportfolio)consistedofjuniorlienloansthatwerebehindafirstlien

mortgageloanthatwasnotownedorservicedbytheCompany.Forthejuniorlienloanswhereanentity

otherthantheCompanyheldafirstlienmortgage,theCompanycannotpreciselydeterminewhetherthere

isadelinquencyonsuchfirstlienmortgage.Asaresult,theCompanytypicallyonlyhasknowledgeofthe

exactstageofdelinquencyforthatportionoftheportfoliowherethefirstlienisownedorservicedbythe

Company.TheCompany™snonaccrualpolicyforjuniorlienhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditdoes

considerthepaymentstatusoftheseniorlienloanincaseswheretheCompanyhasknowledgeaboutthe

paymentstatusofsuchloan.TotheextentknownbytheCompany,iftheseniorlienloan,forpayment

delinquencyorotherreasons,wouldbeonnonaccrualstatus,theCompanysimilarlyplacesthejuniorlien

loanorlineonnonaccrualstatus.AtDecember31,2012,thebalanceofjuniorlienloansandlinesthatwere

innonaccrualstatussolelyasaresultoffirstlienloanperformancewas$7millionandcontributedtothe

increaseinnonaccrualhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,includingjuniorlienAlt-Aloans,from$47

millionor.71%ofsuchloansatDecember31,2011to$58millionor.92%at2012™syearend.The

Companyexpectsfurtherincreasesinnonaccrualjuniorlienloansandlinesasaresultofongoingeffortsto

obtainbetterinformationonfirstlienperformanceonitsjuniorlienloansthatwerebehindafirstmortgage

loanthatwasnotownedorservicedbytheCompany.Inmonitoringthecreditqualityofitshomeequity

portfolioforpurposesofdeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyreviewsdelinquencyand

nonaccrualinformationandconsidersrecentcharge-offexperienceaspresentedintables10and14.

Additionally,theCompanygenerallyevaluateshomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremorethan150

dayspastdueforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalanceoverthenet

realizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.Indeterminingthe

amountofsuchcharge-offs,iftheCompanydoesnotknowthepreciseamountoftheremainingfirstlien

mortgageloan(typicallybecausetheCompanydoesnotownorservicethefirstlienloan),theCompany

assumesthatthefirstlienmortgageloanhashadnoprincipalamortizationsincetheoriginationofthe

juniorlienloan.Similarly,datausedinestimatingincurredlossesforpurposesofdeterminingtheallowance

forcreditlossesalsoassumesnoreductionsinoutstandingprincipaloffirstlienloanssincetheorigination

ofthejuniorlienloan.Homeequitylineofcredittermsvarybutsuchlinesaregenerallyoriginatedwithan

opendrawperiodoftenyearsfollowedbyanamortizationperiodofuptotwentyyears.AtDecember31,
672012,approximately96%ofalloutstandingbalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditrelatedtolinesthatwere
stillinthedrawperiod,theweighted-averageremainingdrawperiodswereapproximatelyfiveyears,and

approximately22%weremakingcontractuallyallowedpaymentsthatdonotincludeanyrepaymentof

principal.FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Reflectingthefactorsandconditions

asdescribedherein,theCompanyhasexperiencedhistoricallyhighlevelsofnonaccrualloansandnet

charge-offsofresidentialrealestate-relatedloans,includingfirstandjuniorlienAlt-Amortgageloansand

loanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.TheCompanyhasalsoexperiencedhigherthan

historicallevelsofnonaccrualcommercialrealestateloanssince2009.Commercialrealestatevaluationscan

behighlysubjective,astheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffected

overrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economicconditions,interestrates,and,

inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,

residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousingtrends,theavailabilityoffinancingat

reasonableinterestrates,andgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleases.Inquantifyingincurredlosses,theCompanyconsiders

thefactorsandusesthetechniquesdescribedhereinandinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.For

purposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanysegmentsitsloanandlease

portfoliobyloantype.TheamountofspecificlosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolios

isdeterminedthroughaloanbyloananalysisofcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansin

nonaccrualstatus.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsistypicallybasedonexpectedfuturecash

flows,collateralvaluesorotherfactorsthatmayimpacttheborrower™sabilitytopay.Lossesassociatedwith

loanssecuredbyresidentialrealestateandotherconsumerloansaregenerallydeterminedbyreferenceto

recentcharge-offhistoryandareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationof

otherfactorsincludingnear-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™screditdepartment.

Theseforecastsgiveconsiderationtooverallborrowerrepaymentperformanceandcurrentgeographic

regionchangesincollateralvaluesusingthirdpartypublishedhistoricalpriceindicesorautomated

valuationmethodologies.Withregardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompany

contemplatesrepaymentofanyfirstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonajuniorlienposition.

Approximately62%oftheCompany™shomeequityportfolioconsistsofjuniorlienloansandlinesofcredit.

TheCompanygenerallyevaluatesresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthat

aremorethan150dayspastdueforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalance

overthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.Exceptfor

consumerloansandresidentialrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogeneousloansand

areevaluatedcollectivelyandloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions,theCompanyconsidersaloantobe

impairedwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunableto

collectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent

90daysormoreandhasbeenplacedinnonaccrualstatus.Thoseimpairedloansareevaluatedforspecific

losscomponents.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobe

troubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthe

modifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Loanslessthan90days

delinquentaredeemedtohaveaminimaldelayinpaymentandaregenerallynotconsideredtobeimpaired.

Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfairvalue

withnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueofthe

acquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscountingthose

cashflowsatthen-currentinterestrates.Theimpactofestimatedfuturecreditlossesrepresentsthe

predominantdifferencebetweencontractuallyrequiredpaymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpected

tobecollectedatacquisition.SubsequentdecreasestothoseexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanyto

evaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowanceforcreditlossesandcouldleadtocharge-offsofacquiredloan

balances.TheinherentbaselevellosscomponentsoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlossesaregenerally
determinedbyapplyinglossfactorstospecificloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™s

classificationofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.TheCompanyutilizesaloangrading
68systemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialrealestatecredits.Aspreviouslydescribed,loan
officersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe

Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsoextensivelymonitoredbytheCompany™sloanreview

departmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loanbalancesutilizedin

theinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationsexcludeloansandleasesforwhichspecificallocations

aremaintained.LoangradesareassignedlosscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™slossestimatefor

eachgroupofloansandleases.Factorsconsideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponentfactors

includeborrower-specificinformationrelatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,collateral

values,financialcondition,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-

offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;changesintherisk

profileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;

andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,

managementalsogivesconsiderationtosuchfactorsascustomer,industryandgeographicconcentrations

aswellasnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsincluding:(i)thecomparativelypoorereconomic

conditionsandunfavorablebusinessclimateinmanymarketregionsservedbytheCompany,specifically

upstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania,thatresultinsuchregionsgenerallyexperiencingsignificantly

poorereconomicgrowthandvitalityascomparedwithmuchoftherestofthecountry;(ii)portfolio

concentrationsregardingloantype,collateraltypeandgeographiclocation;and(iii)additionalrisk

associatedwiththeCompany™sportfolioofconsumerloans,inparticularautomobileloansandleases,

whichgenerallyhavehigherratesoflossthanothertypesofcollateralizedloans.
Theinherentbaselevellosscomponentsrelatedtoresidentialrealestateloansandconsumerloans
aregenerallydeterminedbyapplyinglossfactorstoportfoliobalancesafterconsiderationofpayment

performanceandrecentlossexperienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesin

themarketplaceaswellastheamountofloandefaults.Lossratesforloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,

includinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,aredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistoryand

areevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsaspreviously

described.Inevaluatingcollateral,theCompanyreliesextensivelyoninternallyandexternallyprepared
valuations.Inrecentyears,valuationsofresidentialrealestate,whichareusuallybasedonsalesofcomparable

properties,declinedsignificantlyinmanyregionsacrosstheUnitedStates.Commercialrealestatevaluations

alsorefertosalesofcomparablepropertiesbutoftentimesarebasedoncalculationsthatutilizemany

assumptionsand,asaresult,canbehighlysubjective.Specifically,commercialrealestatevaluescanbe

significantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economicconditions

andinterestrates,and,inmanycases,theresultsofop
erationsofbusinessesandotheroccupantsofthereal
property.Additionally,managementisawarethatthereisoftentimesadelayintherecognitionofcreditquality

changesinloansand,asaresult,inchangestoassignedloangradesduetotimedelaysinthemanifestationand

reportingofunderlyingeventsthatimpactcreditquality.Accordingly,lossestimatesderivedfromtheinherent

baselevellosscomponentcomputationareadjustedf
orcurrentnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsand
trends.EconomicindicatorsinthemostsignificantmarketregionsservedbytheCompanycontinuedto

improvemodestlyin2012butremainedgenerallybe
lowpre-recessionlevels.Forexample,during2012,
privatesectoremploymentinmostmarketareasservedbytheCompanyroseby1.5%,trailingthe1.8%U.S.

average.Privatesectoremploymentin2012increased1.0%inupstateNewYork,1.5%inareasof

PennsylvaniaservedbytheCompany,1.5%inMaryland,1.4%inGreaterWashingtonD.C.and0.5%inthe

StateofDelaware.InNewYorkCity,privatesectoremploymentincreasedby2.4%in2012,however,

unemploymentratesthereremainelevatedandareexpectedtocontinueatabovehistoricallevelsduring2013.

Attheendof2012thereremainedsignificantconcernsaboutthepaceofnationaleconomicrecoveryfromthe

recession,highunemployment,realestatevaluations,h
ighlevelsofconsumerindebtedness,volatileenergy
prices,stateandlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficits,federalfiscalpolicyandsovereigndebtissuesinEuropethat

weighontheglobaleconomicoutlook.Thosefactorsareexpectedtoactassignificantheadwindsforthe

nationaleconomyin2013.
Thespecificlosscomponentsandtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentstogethercomprisethetotal
baselevelorﬁallocatedﬂallowanceforcreditlosses.Suchallocatedportionoftheallowancerepresents

management™sassessmentoflossesexistinginspecificlargerbalanceloansthatarereviewedindetailby

managementandpoolsofotherloansthatarenotindividuallyanalyzed.Inaddition,theCompanyhas

alwaysprovidedaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowancethatisintendedtorecognizeprobable

lossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiable.Theinherentunallocatedallowanceincludesmanagement™s
69subjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessaryforsuchthingsasthepossibleuseofimpreciseestimatesin
determiningtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceandotherrisksassociatedwiththeCompany™sloan

portfoliowhichmaynotbespecificallyallocable.
Acomparativeallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossesforeachofthepastfiveyear-endsis
presentedintable15.Amountswereallocatedtospecificloancategoriesbasedoninformationavailableto

managementatthetimeofeachyear-endassessmentandusingthemethodologydescribedherein.

Variationsintheallocationoftheallowancebyloancategoryasapercentageofthoseloansreflectchanges

inmanagement™sestimateofspecificlosscomponentsandinherentbaselevellosscomponents,including

theimpactofdelinquenciesandnonaccrualloans.Asdescribedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements,

loansconsideredimpairedwere$1.1billionateachofDecember31,2012andDecember31,2011.The

allocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesrelatedtoimpairedloanstotaled$133millionat

December31,2012and$168millionatDecember31,2011.Theunallocatedportionoftheallowancefor

creditlosseswasequalto.11%and.12%ofgrossloansoutstandingatDecember31,2012and2011,

respectively.Giventheinherentimprecisioninthemanyestimatesusedinthedeterminationofthe

allocatedportionoftheallowance,managementdeliberatelyremainedcautiousandconservativein

establishingtheoverallallowanceforcreditlosses.GiventheCompany™shighconcentrationofrealestate

loansandconsideringtheotherfactorsalreadydiscussedherein,managementconsiderstheallocatedand

unallocatedportionsoftheallowanceforcreditlossestobeprudentandreasonable.Furthermore,the

Company™sallowanceisgeneralinnatureandisavailabletoabsorblossesfromanyloanorleasecategory.

Additionalinformationabouttheallowanceforcreditlossesisincludedinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Table15
ALLOCATIONOFTHEALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSESTOLOANCATEGORIES
December31
20122011201020092008(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........$
246,759$234,022$212,579$219,170$231,993
Realestate
.............................425,908459,552486,913451,352340,588
Consumer.............................179,418143,121133,067137,124140,571
Unallocated............................73,77571,59570,38270,37674,752
Total................................$
925,860$908,290$902,941$878,022$787,904
AsaPercentageofGrossLoans
andLeasesOutstanding
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........1.37%1.47%1.56%1.59%1.59%
Realestate
.............................1.141.421.791.701.43
Consumer.............................1.551.191.161.141.28
ManagementbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesatDecember31,2012appropriately
reflectedcreditlossesinherentintheportfolioasofthatdate.Theallowanceforcreditlosseswas

$926millionor1.39%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2012,comparedwith$908millionor1.51%

atDecember31,2011and$903millionor1.74%atDecember31,2010.Theratiooftheallowancetototal

loansandleasesateachrespectiveyear-endreflectstheimpactofloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions

subsequentto2008thathavebeenrecordedatestimatedfairvaluebasedonestimatedfuturecashflows

expectedtobereceivedonthoseloans.Thosecashflowsreflecttheimpactofexpecteddefaultsoncustomer

repaymentperformance.Asnotedearlier,GAAPprohibitsanycarry-overofanallowanceforcreditlosses

foracquiredloansrecordedatfairvalue.Thedeclineintheratiooftheallowancetototalloansandleases

fromDecember31,2011tothe2012yearendreflectstheimpactofnewlyoriginatedloansforwhich

significantlosseshavenotbeenincurredaswellasimprovementinthelevelsofcriticizedandnonaccrual

loans.ThedeclineinthatratiofromDecember31,2010toDecember31,2011reflectstheimpactof$5.5

billionofloansobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.Theleveloftheallowancereflects

management™sevaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliousingthemethodologyandconsideringthefactors

asdescribedherein.Shouldthevariouscreditfactorsconsideredbymanagementinestablishingthe

allowanceforcreditlosseschangeandshouldmanagement™sassessmentoflossesinherentintheloan

portfoliosalsochange,theleveloftheallowanceasapercentageofloanscouldincreaseordecreaseinfuture
70periods.Theratiooftheallowancetononaccrualloansattheendof2012,2011and2010was91%,83%and
79%,respectively.GiventheCompany™spositionasasecuredlenderanditspracticeofchargingoffloan

balanceswhencollectionisdeemeddoubtful,thatratioandchangesinthatratioaregenerallynotan

indicativemeasureoftheadequacyoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses,nordoesmanagementrely

uponthatratioinassessingtheadequacyoftheallowance.Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfolioasofeachrespectivedate.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,managementfollowsthemethodologydescribed
herein,includingtakingaconservativeviewofborrowers™abilitiestorepayloans.Theestablishmentofthe

allowanceisextremelysubjectiveandrequiresmanagementtomakemanyjudgmentsaboutborrower,

industry,regionalandnationaleconomichealthandperformance.Inordertopresentexamplesofthe

possibleimpactontheallowancefromcertainchangesincreditqualityfactors,theCompanyassumedthe

followingscenariosforpossibledeteriorationofcreditquality:
ŠForconsumerloansandleasesconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenousloansandevaluated

collectively,a40basispointincreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,alsoconsideredsmaller

balancehomogenousloansandevaluatedcollectively,a15%increaseinestimatedinherent

losses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstolower-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina20%increaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Forpossibleimprovementincreditqualityfactors,thescenariosassumedwere:
ŠForconsumerloansandleases,a20basispointdecreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,a5%decreaseinestimated
inherentlosses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstohigher-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina5%decreaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Thescenarioanalysesresultedinanadditional$72millionthatcouldbeidentifiableunderthe
assumptionsforcreditdeterioration,whereasundertheassumptionsforcreditimprovementa$24million

reductioncouldoccur.Theseexamplesareonlyafewofnumerousreasonablypossiblescenariosthatcould

beutilizedinassessingthesensitivityoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbasedonchangesinassumptionsand

otherfactors.
Investor-ownedcommercialrealestateloanssecuredbyretailpropertiesintheNewYorkCity
metropolitanarearepresented3%ofloansoutstandingatDecember31,2012.TheCompanyhadno

concentrationsofcreditextendedtoanyspecificindustrythatexceeded10%oftotalloansatDecember31,

2012.Outstandingloanstoforeignborrowerswere$149millionatDecember31,2012,or.2%oftotalloans

andleases.
Realestateandotherforeclosedassetstotaled$104millionatDecember31,2012,comparedwith
$157millionatDecember31,2011and$220millionatDecember31,2010.Thedecreasefrom

December31,2011toDecember31,2012reflectssalesofsuchassets.Thedeclineinrealestateandother

foreclosedassetsatDecember31,2011ascomparedwiththe2010year-endreflectsthesaleduringthe

secondquarterof2011ofacommercialrealestatepropertylocatedinNewYorkCitywithacarryingvalue

of$98million.AtDecember31,2012,theCompany™sholdingofresidentialrealestate-relatedproperties

comprisedapproximately60%offoreclosedassets.
OtherIncome
Otherincomeaggregated$1.67billionin2012,up5%from$1.58billionin2011.Reflectedinsuchincome

werenetgainsandlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses),

whichtotaledtoanetlossof$48millionin2012andtoanetgainof$73millionin2011.Alsoreflectedin

noninterestincomein2011werethe$55millionCDOlitigationsettlementandthe$65milliongain

recognizedontheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.Excludingthespecificitemsmentionedabove,noninterest

incomewas$1.72billionin2012,up$325millionfrom$1.39billionin2011.Thepredominant

contributorstothatriseinnoninterestincomewerehigherlevelsofmortgagebankingrevenuesandtrust

income,thelatterreflectingthefull-yearimpactoftheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.
Otherincomein2011was43%higherthanthe$1.11billionearnedin2010.Asnotedabove,
reflectedinotherincomein2011werenetgainsfrombankinvestmentsecuritiesof$73million,compared

withnetlossesof$84millionin2010.Excludingtheimpactofsecuritiesgainsandlossesfrombothyears,

theCDOlitigationsettlementandthe$65milliongainontheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustin2011,and
71the$28milliongainassociatedwiththeKBankacquisitiontransactionin2010,otherincomeof
$1.39billionin2011wasup$226millionfrom$1.16billionin2010.Thepredominantcontributortothat

riseinnoninterestincomewashighertrustincomeresultingfromtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.Higher

revenuesin2011fromcredit-relatedfeesandmerchantdiscountandcreditcardfeeswereoffsetbylower

incomefromresidentialmortgagebankingandservicechargesondepositaccounts.
Mortgagebankingrevenuesaggregated$349millionin2012,$166millionin2011and$185million
in2010.Mortgagebankingrevenuesarecomprisedofbothresidentialandcommercialmortgagebanking

activities.TheCompany™sinvolvementincommercialmortgagebankingactivitiesincludestheorigination,

salesandservicingofloansunderthemulti-familyloanprogramsofFannieMae,FreddieMacandthe

U.S.DepartmentofHousingandUrbanDevelopment.
Residentialmortgagebankingrevenues,consistingofrealizedgainsfromsalesofresidential
mortgageloansandloanservicingrights,unrealizedgainsandlossesonresidentialmortgageloansheldfor

saleandrelatedcommitments,residentialmortgageloanservicingfees,andotherresidentialmortgageloan-

relatedfeesandincome,were$264millionin2012,$103millionin2011and$127millionin2010.The

significantlyhigherlevelofresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesin2012ascomparedwith2011wasdue

toincreasedvolumesofloansoriginatedforsaleandwidermarginsrelatedtosuchloans.Thosehigher

volumesreflectincreasedrefinancingactivitiesbyconsumersinlightofthelowinterestrateenvironment

andincludetheimpactoftheCompany™sinvolvementintheU.S.government™sHomeAffordableRefinance

Program(ﬁHARP2.0ﬂ),whichallowshomeownerstorefinancetheirFannieMaeorFreddieMacmortgages

whenthevalueoftheirhomehasfallensuchthattheyhavelittleornoequity.TheHARP2.0programwill

remainavailabletoborrowersthroughDecember31,2013.Thelowerrevenuein2011ascomparedwith

2010waslargelyattributabletolowervolumesofloansoriginatedforsale,whichreflectstheCompany

retainingforportfolioduringmostof2011alargeportionofresidentialrealestateloansoriginated.
Newcommitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgageloanstobesoldwereapproximately$5.1billion
in2012,comparedwith$1.9billionin2011and$4.1billionin2010.Includedinthosecommitmentsto

originateresidentialmortgageloanstobesoldwereHARP2.0commitmentsof$1.8billionin2012.The

HARP2.0programbeganinDecember2011.Realizedgainsfromsalesofresidentialmortgageloansand

loanservicingrights(netoftheimpactofcostsassociatedwithobligationstorepurchasemortgageloans

originatedforsale)andrecognizednetunrealizedgainsorlossesattributabletoresidentialmortgageloans

heldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloanstotaledtoagainof

$157millionin2012,comparedwithgainsof$17millionin2011and$43millionin2010.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloansthatdonotultimately
meetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodo

so,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.The

Companyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesforlossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloan

purchasers.Theamountofthosechargesvariesbasedonthevolumeofloanssold,thelevelof

reimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthatmaybeassociatedwith

previouslysoldloans.Residentialmortgagebankingrevenuesduring2012,2011and2010werereducedby

approximately$28million,$23millionand$30million,respectively,relatedtotheactualoranticipated

settlementofrepurchaseobligations.
Lateinthethirdquarterof2010,theCompanybegantooriginatecertainresidentialrealestateloans
tobeheldinitsloanportfolio,ratherthancontinuingtosellsuchloans.Theretainedloansconformto

FannieMaeandFreddieMacunderwritingguidelines.Retainingthoseresidentialrealestateloansoffsetthe

impactofthedeclininginvestmentsecuritiesportfolioresultingfrommaturitiesandpay-downsof

residentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswhileprovidinghighqualityassetsearningareasonableyield.From

MarchthroughJune2011,theCompanyresumedoriginatingforsalethemajorityofnewresidentialreal

estateloans.However,beginninginJuly2011,theCompanyresumedoriginatingthemajorityofresidential

realestateloanstobeheldinitsloanportfolio.Thedecisiontoretainforportfoliothemajorityofsuch

loansoriginatedratherthansellingthemresultedinareductionofresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesof

approximately$53million,$27millionand$11millionin2012,2011and2010,respectively.Duetothe

significantgrowthintheCompany™sresidentialrealestateloanportfolioandthependingHudsonCity

acquisition,beginninginSeptember2012themajorityoftheCompany™scommitmentsaretooriginate

residentialrealestateloansforsaletothirdparties.
Loansheldforsalethataresecuredbyresidentialrealestatetotaled$1.2billionand$210millionat
December31,2012and2011,respectively.Commitmentstosellresidentialmortgageloansand

commitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgageloansforsaleatpre-determinedrateswere$2.3billionand
72$1.6billion,respectively,atDecember31,2012,$296millionand$182million,respectively,at
December31,2011and$458millionand$162million,respectively,atDecember31,2010.Netunrealized

gainsonresidentialmortgageloansheldforsale,commitmentstosellloans,andcommitmentstooriginate

loansforsalewere$83millionand$6millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively,and$11million

atDecember31,2010.Changesinsuchnetunrealizedgainsandlossesarerecordedinmortgagebanking

revenuesandresultedinanetincreaseinrevenueof$77millionin2012andnetdecreasesinrevenueof$4

millionand$5millionin2011and2010,respectively.
Revenuesfromservicingresidentialmortgageloansforotherswere$100millionin2012,upfrom
$83millionin2011and$80millionin2010.Includedinsuchservicingrevenueswereamountsrelatedto

purchasedservicingrightsassociatedwithsmallbalancecommercialmortgageloanstotaling$20millionin

2012,$23millionin2011and$27millionin2010.Residentialmortgageloansservicedforotherstotaled

$35.9billionatDecember31,2012,$40.7billionayearearlierand$21.1billionatDecember31,2010,

includingthesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloansnotedaboveofapproximately$3.8billion,

$4.4billionand$5.2billionatDecember31,2012,2011and2010,respectively.Reflectedinresidential

mortgageloansservicedforotherswereloanssub-servicedforothersof$12.5billionand$14.3billionat

December31,2012and2011,respectively.OnSeptember30,2011,theCompanypurchasedservicingrights

associatedwithresidentialmortgageloanshavinganoutstandingprincipalbalanceofapproximately$6.7

billion.TheoutstandingbalancesofsuchloansasofDecember31,2012and2011were$5.2billionand$6.4

billion,respectively.Approximately$19millionand$5millionofservicingfeesrelatedtothatportfolioof

loanswereincludedinmortgagebankingrevenuesduring2012and2011,respectively.Capitalized

residentialmortgageloanservicingassets,netofanyapplicablevaluationallowanceforpossible

impairment,totaled$108millionatDecember31,2012,comparedwith$145millionand$118millionat

December31,2011and2010,respectively.Thevaluationallowanceforpossibleimpairmentofcapitalized

residentialmortgageservicingassetstotaled$5millionand$2millionatthe2012and2011year-ends,

respectively.TherewasnosimilarvaluationallowanceatDecember31,2010.Includedincapitalized

residentialmortgageservicingassetswerepurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwiththesmallbalance

commercialmortgageloansnotedaboveof$8million,$16millionand$26millionatDecember31,2012,

2011and2010,respectively.Servicingrightsforthesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloanswere

purchasedfromBLGoritsaffiliates.Inaddition,atDecember31,2012and2011capitalizedservicingrights

included$2millionand$5million,respectively,ofservicingrightsfor$2.7billionand$3.1billion,

respectively,ofresidentialrealestateloansthatwerepurchasedfromaffiliatesofBLG.Additional

informationabouttheCompany™srelationshipwithBLGanditsaffiliatesisprovidedinnote24ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™scapitalizedresidentialmortgageloan

servicingassets,includinginformationaboutthecalculationofestimatedfairvalue,ispresentedinnote7of

NotestoFinancialStatements.
Commercialmortgagebankingrevenuestotaled$85millionin2012,$63millionin2011and
$58millionin2010.Includedinsuchamountswererevenuesfromloanoriginationandsalesactivitiesof

$59millionin2012,$41millionin2011and$40millionin2010.Commercialmortgageloansoriginatedfor

saletootherinvestorstotaledapproximately$2.5billionin2012,comparedwith$1.5billionin2011and

$1.6billionin2010.Loanservicingrevenuestotaled$26millionin2012,$22millionin2011and

$18millionin2010.Capitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingassetsaggregated$60millionat

December31,2012,$51millionatDecember31,2011and$43millionatDecember31,2010.Commercial

mortgageloansservicedforotherinvestorstotaled$10.6billion,$9.0billionand$8.1billionat

December31,2012,2011and2010,respectively,andincluded$2.0billion,$1.8billionand$1.6billion,

respectively,ofloanbalancesforwhichinvestorshadrecoursetotheCompanyifsuchbalancesare

ultimatelyuncollectible.Commitmentstosellcommercialmortgageloansandcommitmentstooriginate

commercialmortgageloansforsalewere$340millionand$140million,respectively,atDecember31,2012,

$339millionand$178million,respectively,atDecember31,2011and$276millionand$73million,

respectively,atDecember31,2010.Commercialmortgageloansheldforsaletotaled$200million,

$161millionand$204millionatDecember31,2012,2011and2010,respectively.
Servicechargesondepositaccountsdeclined2%to$447millionin2012from$455millionin2011.
ThatdeclinereflectsnewregulationsthatwereenactedaspartoftheDodd-FrankActrelatedtolimiting

debitcardinterchangefeesthatfinancialinstitutionsareabletoassess.Thoseregulationswereeffective

October1,2011.Partiallyoffsettingtheimpactofthosenewregulationswasthefull-yearimpactofservice

chargesondepositaccountsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.Depositaccountservicecharges

in2010were$478million.Thedeclinefrom2010to2011resultedfromregulatorychangesthatwentinto
73effectduringthethirdquarterof2010andinthefourthquarterof2011.The2010changerelatedto
regulationspromulgatedbytheFederalReserveandotherbankregulatorsthatrequiresconsumerstoelect

tobesubjecttofeesforoverdraftandcertaindepositaccounttransactionsbeforeafinancialinstitutionmay

chargesuchfees.TheCompanyestimatesthattheimpactofsuchregulationswastoreduceservicecharges

ondepositaccountsbyapproximately$68millionand$35millionin2011and2010,respectively.The

regulatorychangesthatwereeffectiveOctober1,2011,asnotedabove,werepartoftheDodd-FrankAct.

TheCompanyestimatesthattheimpactofthatchangeresultedinareductionofservicechargesondeposit

accountsofapproximately$75millionand$17millionin2012and2011,respectively.Partiallyoffsetting

theimpactofthenewregulationswereservicechargesondepositaccountsobtainedintheWilmington

Trustacquisition,whichtotaledapproximately$18millionin2011.
Trustincomeincludesfeesfortrustandcustodyservicesprovidedtopersonal,corporateand
institutionalcustomers,andinvestmentmanagementandadvisoryfeesthatareoftenbasedonapercentage

ofthemarketvalueofassetsundermanagement.Trustincomerose42%in2012to$472millionfrom

$332millionin2011.During2010,trustincomeaggregated$123million.TheWilmingtonTrust

acquisitioncontributed$366millionand$217milliontotrustincomein2012and2011,respectively.That

acquisitionbroughtwithittwosignificantsourcesoftrustincome.TheInstitutionalClientServices(ﬁICSﬂ)

businessprovidesavarietyoftrustee,agency,investmentmanagementandadministrativeservicesfor

corporationsandinstitutions,investmentbankers,corporatetax,financeandlegalexecutives,andother

institutionalclientswho:(i)usecapitalmarketsfinancingstructures;(ii)useindependenttrusteestohold

retirementplanandotherassets;and(iii)needinvestmentandcashmanagementservices.ManyICSclients

aremultinationalcorporationsandinstitutions.TheWealthAdvisoryServices(ﬁWASﬂ)businesshelpshigh

networthclientsgrowtheirwealth,protectit,andtransferittotheirheirs.Acomprehensivearrayofwealth

managementservicesareoffered,includingassetmanagement,fiduciaryservicesandfamilyofficeservices.

Trustincomein2012reflectsICSandWASrevenuesof$193millionand$153million,respectively.In2011,

revenuescontributedbyacquiredICSandWASactivitieswere$119millionand$87million,respectively.

Adverselyimpactingtrustincomein2012,2011and2010werefeewaiversbytheCompanyinorderto

enableproprietarymoney-marketfundstopaycustomersayieldontheirinvestmentsinsuchfunds.Those

waivedfeeswereapproximately$57millionin2012,$33millionin2011and$18millionin2010.Totaltrust

assets,whichincludeassetsundermanagementandassetsunderadministration,aggregated$255.9billionat

December31,2012,comparedwith$261.9billionatDecember31,2011.Trustassetsundermanagement

were$61.5billionand$52.7billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Inadditiontotheasset

amountsnotedabove,trustassetsundermanagementofaffiliatestotaled$15.4billionand$14.3billionat

December31,2012and2011,respectively.Furthermore,theCompany™sproprietarymutualfundshad

assetsof$13.9billionand$13.8billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.
Brokerageservicesincome,whichincludesrevenuesfromthesaleofmutualfundsandannuitiesand
securitiesbrokeragefees,aggregated$59millionin2012,$56millionin2011and$50millionin2010.The

improvementfrom2011to2012wasduetohigherrevenuesearnedfromthesaleofmutualfundswhilethe

risefrom2010to2011reflectshighersalesofannuityproducts.Tradingaccountandforeignexchange

activityresultedingainsof$36millionin2012and$27millionineachof2011and2010.Thehighergains

in2012ascomparedwith2010and2011wereduetoincreasedmarketvaluesoftradingaccountassetsheld

inconnectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangementsandtohighernewvolumesofinterestrateswap

agreementtransactionsexecutedonbehalfofcommercialcustomers.TheCompanyentersintointerestrate

andforeignexchangecontractswithcustomerswhoneedsuchservicesandconcomitantlyentersinto

offsettingtradingpositionswiththirdpartiestominimizetherisksinvolvedwiththesetypesoftransactions.

Informationaboutthenotionalamountofinterestrate,foreignexchangeandothercontractsenteredinto

bytheCompanyfortradingaccountpurposesisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatementsand

hereinundertheheadingﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity.ﬂ
Includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,theCompanyrecognizednetlosseson
investmentsecuritiesof$48millionand$84millionduring2012and2010,respectively,comparedwithnet

gainsof$73millionin2011.During2011,theCompanyrealizedgainsof$150millionfromthesaleof

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,predominantlyresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedby

FannieMaeandFreddieMac,collateralizeddebtobligationsandtrustpreferredsecurities,havingan

amortizedcostof$1.75billion.Realizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswerenot

significantin2012or2010.Other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$48million,$77millionand

$86millionwererecordedin2012,2011and2010,respectively.Thechargesrecordedin2012and2011

relatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans.During
742010,theCompanyrecognizedimpairmentchargesof$68millionrelatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOs
backedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans,$6millionrelatedtoCDOsbackedbytrustpreferred

securitiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,anda$12millionwrite-downofAIBADSs.TheAIBADSswere

obtainedinaprioracquisitionofasubsidiaryofAIBandwereheldtosatisfyoptionstopurchasesuch

sharesgrantedbythatsubsidiarytocertainofitsemployees.EachreportingperiodtheCompanyreviewsits

investmentsecuritiesforother-than-temporaryimpairment.Forequitysecurities,theCompanyconsiders

variousfactorstodetermineifthedeclineinvalueisotherthantemporary,includingthedurationand

extentofthedeclineinvalue,thefactorscontributingtothedeclineinfairvalue,includingthefinancial

conditionoftheissueraswellastheconditionsoftheindustryinwhichitoperates,andtheprospectsfora

recoveryinfairvalueoftheequitysecurity.Fordebtsecurities,theCompanyanalyzesthecreditworthiness

oftheissuerorreviewsthecreditperformanceoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingthebond.Fordebt

securitiesbackedbypoolsofloans,suchasprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompany

estimatesthecashflowsoftheunderlyingloancollateralusingforward-lookingassumptionsofdefaultrates,

lossseveritiesandprepaymentspeeds.Estimatedcollateralcashflowsarethenutilizedtoestimatebond-

specificcashflowstodeterminetheultimatecollectibilityofthebond.Ifthepresentvalueofthecashflows

indicatesthattheCompanyshouldnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofabondorifthe

Companyintendstosellthebondoritmorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthebondbeforerecovery

ofitsamortizedcostbasis,another-than-temporaryimpairmentlossisrecognized.Ifanother-than-

temporaryimpairmentlossisdeemedtohaveoccurred,theinvestmentsecurity™scostbasisisadjusted,as

appropriateforthecircumstances.Additionalinformationaboutother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses

isincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapital.ﬂ
M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLGwas$22millionin2012,comparedwith$24millionand
$26millionin2011and2010,respectively.TheoperatinglossesofBLGintherespectiveyearsresultedfrom

disruptionsintheresidentialandcommercialrealestatemarketsandreflectedprovisionsforlosses

associatedwithsecuritizedloansandotherloansheldbyBLGandloanservicingandotheradministrative

costs.UnderGAAP,suchlossesarerequiredtoberecognizedbyBLGdespitethefactthatmanyofthe

securitizedloanlosseswillultimatelybebornebytheunderlyingthirdpartybond-holders.Astheseloan

lossesarerealizedthroughlaterforeclosureandstilllatersaleofrealestatecollateral,theunderlyingbonds

willbecharged-downresultinginBLG™sfuturerecognitionofdebtextinguishmentgains.Thetimingof

suchdebtextinguishmentislargelydependentonthetimingofloanworkoutsandcollateralliquidations

and,givenongoingloanlossprovisioning,itisdifficulttoprojectwhenBLGwillreturntoprofitability.Asa

resultofcreditandliquiditydisruptions,BLGceaseditsoriginationsofsmall-balancecommercialrealestate

loansin2008.Asaresultofpastsecuritizationactivities,BLGisstillentitledtocashflowsfrommortgage

assetsthatitownsorthatareownedbyitsaffiliatesandisalsoentitledtoreceivedistributionsfromaffiliates

thatprovideassetmanagementandotherservices.Accordingly,theCompanybelievesthatBLGiscapable

ofrealizingpositivecashflowsthatcouldbeavailablefordistributiontoitsowners,includingM&T,despite

alackofpositiveGAAP-earningsfromitscoremortgageoriginationandsecuritizationactivities.Tothis

point,BLG™saffiliateshavereinvestedtheirearningstogenerateadditionalservicingandassetmanagement

activities,furthercontributingtothevalueofthoseaffiliatesthatinurestothebenefitofBLGand,

ultimately,M&T.In2011™sfinalquartertheCompanyrecognizeda$79millionother-than-temporary

impairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBLG.Whilethesmallbusinesscommercialreal

estatesecuritizationmarketthatBLGpreviouslyoperatedincontinuestobestagnant,itsaffiliatedasset

managementandloanservicingoperationscontinuetogrowandperformwell.BLGisentitledtoreceive,if

andwhenmade,cashdistributionsfromaffiliates,aportionofwhichiscontractuallyrequiredtobe

distributedtoM&T.Nevertheless,inconsiderationofthepassageoftimesinceM&T™soriginalinvestment

inBLGin2007,theprospectsofongoingloanlossesatBLGandtheinabilitytoaccuratelypredictthe

timingofpotentialdistributionstoM&T,managementconcludedthattheinvestmentwasother-than-

temporarilyimpairedandwroteitdowntoitsestimatedfairvalueof$115million.Theimpairmentcharge

of$79millionwasrecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂin2011.TheCompanybelievesthatthevalueof

itsinvestmentinBLGasofDecember31,2012hasnotchangedsignificantlyfromthatofayearearlierwhen

theimpairmentchargewasrecognized.InformationabouttheCompany™srelationshipwithBLGandits

affiliatesisincludedinnote24ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherrevenuesfromoperationstotaled$374millionin2012,comparedwith$497millionin2011.
Reflectedinsuchrevenuesin2011werethe$65milliongainrealizedontheacquisitionofWilmington

Trustandthe$55millionCDOlitigationsettlement.Excludingthosetwoitems,otherrevenuesfrom

operationswerelittlechangedin2012ascomparedwith2011,butneverthelessreflectedhighermerchant
75discountandcreditcardfeesin2012offsetbyadeclineingainsfromthesaleofpreviouslyleased
equipment.Otherrevenuesfromoperationswere$355millionin2010.Inadditiontothegainonthe

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustandtheCDOlitigationsettlement,contributingtotheimprovementin

otherrevenuesfromoperationsin2011ascomparedwith2010wereincreasesinrevenuesfromletterof

creditandcredit-relatedfees,merchantdiscountandcreditcardfees,andgainsfromthesaleofpreviously

leasedequipment.Reflectedinotherrevenuesfromoperationsin2010wasthemerger-relatedgainof

$28millionrelatedtotheKBanktransaction.
Includedinotherrevenuesfromoperationswerethefollowingsignificantcomponents.Letterof
creditandothercredit-relatedfeestotaled$127million,$130millionand$112millionin2012,2011and

2010,respectively.Theincreaseinsuchfeesfrom2010to2011wasduelargelytohigherincomefrom

providingletterofcreditandloansyndicationservices.Tax-exemptincomeearnedfrombankownedlife

insuranceaggregated$51millionineachof2012and2011and$50millionin2010.Suchincomeincludes

increasesincashsurrendervalueoflifeinsurancepoliciesandbenefitsreceived.Revenuesfrommerchant

discountandcreditcardfeeswere$77millionin2012,$60millionin2011and$46millionin2010.The

increasedrevenuesin2012ascomparedwith2011andin2011ascomparedwith2010werelargely

attributabletohighertransactionvolumesrelatedtomerchantactivityandusageoftheCompany™scredit

cardproducts.Insurance-relatedsalescommissionsandotherrevenuestotaled$44millionin2012,

comparedwith$40millionineachof2011and2010.Automatedtellermachineusagefeesaggregated

$19millionineachof2012and2011and$18millionin2010.
OtherExpense
Otherexpensetotaled$2.51billionin2012,comparedwith$2.48billionin2011and$1.91billionin2010.

Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnatureconsistingof

amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$61million,$62millionand$58millionin2012,

2011and2010,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$10millionin2012,$84millionin2011and

$771thousandin2010.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpenseswere

$2.44billionin2012,$2.33billionin2011and$1.86billionin2010.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesin2012

ascomparedwith2011waslargelyattributabletothefull-yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedinthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition.Reflectedin2011noninterestoperatingexpenseswerethepreviously

discussed$79millionimpairmentchargerelatedtoBLGandthe$30millionfourthquartercharitable

contribution.Theincreaseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesin2011ascomparedwith2010waslargelythe

resultoftheimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,theimpairmentcharge

relatedtoBLG,highercharitablecontributionsandhigherFDICassessments.
Salariesandemployeebenefitsexpensetotaled$1.31billionin2012,comparedwith$1.20billionand
$1.00billionin2011and2010,respectively.Theriseinsuchexpensesin2012from2011reflectsthefull-

yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.Alsocontributingtothe

higherexpenselevelin2012wereincreasedincentivecompensationcostsandexpensesrelatedtopension

andpostretirementbenefits.Thehigherexpenselevelsin2011ascomparedwith2010werepredominantly

duetotheoperationsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,butalsoreflect$16millionofmerger-

relatedsalariesandemployeebenefitsexpensescomprisedpredominantlyofseveranceforWilmington

Trustemployees.Stock-basedcompensationtotaled$57millionin2012,$56millionin2011and

$54millionin2010.Thenumberoffull-timeequivalentemployeeswas14,404atDecember31,2012,

comparedwith15,072and12,802atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
TheCompanyprovidespensionandotherpostretirementbenefits(includingaretirementsavings
plan)foritsemployees.Expensesrelatedtosuchbenefitstotaled$105millionin2012,$86millionin2011

and$66millionin2010.TheCompanysponsorsbothdefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpension

plans.Pensionbenefitexpenseforthoseplanswas$69millionin2012,$53millionin2011and$38million

in2010.Includedinthoseamountsare$17millionin2012,$13millionin2011and$14millionin2010for

adefinedcontributionpensionplanthattheCompanybeganonJanuary1,2006.Theriseinpensionand

otherpostretirementbenefitsexpensein2012ascomparedwith2011waslargelyreflectiveofa$17million

increaseinamortizationofactuariallossesaccumulatedinthedefinedbenefitpensionplans.Theincreasein

expensein2011from2010waspredominantlyduetotheimpactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionand

anincreaseinamortizationofactuariallossesofapproximately$7million.Thedeterminationofpension

expenseandtherecognitionofnetpensionassetsandliabilitiesfordefinedbenefitpensionplansrequires

managementtomakevariousassumptionsthatcansignificantlyimpacttheactuarialcalculationsrelated

thereto.Thoseassumptionsincludetheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets,therateofincrease
76infuturecompensationlevelsandthediscountrate.Changesinanyofthoseassumptionswillimpactthe
Company™spensionexpense.Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionisdeterminedbytakinginto

considerationassetallocations,historicalreturnsonthetypesofassetsheldandcurrenteconomicfactors.

Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaid

managementinevaluatingsuchreturns.ThediscountrateusedbytheCompanytodeterminethepresent

valueoftheCompany™sfuturebenefitobligationsreflectsspecificmarketyieldsforahypotheticalportfolio

ofhighlyratedcorporatebondsthatwouldproducecashflowssimilartotheCompany™sbenefitplan

obligationsandthelevelofmarketinterestratesingeneralasoftheyear-end.Otherfactorsusedtoestimate

theprojectedbenefitobligationsincludeactuarialassumptionsformortalityrate,turnoverrate,retirement

rateanddisabilityrate.Thoseotherfactorsdonottendtochangesignificantlyovertime.TheCompany

reviewsitspensionplanassumptionsannuallytoensurethatsuchassumptionsarereasonableandadjusts

thoseassumptions,asnecessary,toreflectchangesinfutureexpectations.TheCompanyutilizesactuaries

andotherstoaidinthatassessment.
TheCompany™s2012pensionexpenseforitsdefinedbenefitplanswasdeterminedusingthe
followingassumptions:along-termrateofreturnonassetsof6.50%;arateoffuturecompensationincrease

of4.50%;andadiscountrateof4.25%.Todemonstratethesensitivityofpensionexpensetochangesinthe

Company™spensionplanassumptions,25basispointincreasesin:therateofreturnonplanassetswould

haveresultedinadecreaseinpensionexpenseof$3million;therateofincreaseincompensationwould

haveresultedinanincreaseinpensionexpenseof$.4million;andthediscountratewouldhaveresultedina

decreaseinpensionexpenseof$5million.Decreasesof25basispointsinthoseassumptionswouldhave

resultedinsimilarchangesinamount,butintheoppositedirectionfromthechangespresentedinthe

precedingsentence.Theaccountingguidancefordefinedbenefitpensionplansreflectsthelong-termnature

ofbenefitobligationsandtheinvestmenthorizonofplanassets,andhastheeffectofreducingexpense

volatilityrelatedtoshort-termchangesininterestratesandmarketvaluations.Actuarialgainsandlosses

includetheimpactofplanamendments,inadditiontovariousgainsandlossesresultingfromchangesin

assumptionsandinvestmentreturnswhicharedifferentfromthatwhichwasassumed.AsofDecember31,

2012,theCompanyhadcumulativeunrecognizedactuariallossesofapproximately$480millionthatcould

resultinanincreaseintheCompany™sfuturepensionexpensedependingonseveralfactors,including

whethersuchlossesateachmeasurementdateexceedtenpercentofthegreateroftheprojectedbenefit

obligationorthemarket-relatedvalueofplanassets.InaccordancewithGAAP,netunrecognizedgainsor

lossesthatexceedthatthresholdarerequiredtobeamortizedovertheexpectedserviceperiodofactive

employees,andareincludedasacomponentofnetpensioncost.Amortizationofthesenetunrealizedlosses

hadtheeffectofincreasingtheCompany™spensionexpensebyapproximately$37millionin2012,

$21millionin2011and$14millionin2010.
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitcost,areto

berecognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.AsofDecember31,2012,thecombined

benefitobligationsoftheCompany™sdefinedbenefitpostretirementplansexceededthefairvalueofthe

assetsofsuchplansbyapproximately$311million.Ofthatamount,$105millionwasrelatedtoqualified

definedbenefitplansthatareperiodicallyfundedbytheCompanyand$206millionrelatedtonon-qualified

pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansthataregenerallynotfundeduntilbenefitsarepaid.The

Companywasrequiredtohaveanetpensionandpostretirementbenefitliabilityforthoseplansthatwasat

leastequalto$311millionatDecember31,2012.Accordingly,asofDecember31,2012theCompany

recordedanadditionalpostretirementbenefitliabilityof$455million.Afterapplicabletaxeffect,that

additionalliabilityreducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(andtherebyshareholders™equity)by

$277million.Theresultofthiswasayear-over-yeardecreaseof$2milliontotheadditionalminimum

postretirementbenefitliabilityfromthe$457millionrecordedatDecember31,2011.Afterapplicabletax

effect,the$2milliondecreaseintheadditionalrequiredliabilityincreasedaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincomein2012by$945thousandfromtheprioryear-endamountof$278million.The

ratherinsignificantchangeintheminimumliabilityfromDecember31,2011representsthenetimpactof

actualexperienceduring2012thatdifferedfromtheactuarialassumptionsusedandfromchangesinthose

assumptions.Notably,gainsfromhigherthanexpectedinvestmentreturnsearnedin2012wereoffsetbynet
77lossesintheremeasurementofthebenefitobligationsthatresultedfromaloweringofthediscountrate
usedinthatmeasurement.Indeterminingthebenefitobligationfordefinedbenefitpostretirementplansthe

Companyusedadiscountrateof3.75%atDecember31,2012and4.25%atDecember31,2011.A25basis

pointdecreaseintheassumeddiscountrateasofDecember31,2012to3.50%wouldhaveresultedin

increasesinthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefinedbenefitpostretirementplans(includingpension

andotherplans)of$67million.Underthatscenario,theminimumpostretirementliabilityadjustmentat

December31,2012wouldhavebeen$522million,ratherthanthe$455millionthatwasactuallyrecorded,

andthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargetoaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeatDecember31,

2012wouldhavebeen$317million,ratherthanthe$277millionthatwasactuallyrecorded.A25basis

pointincreaseintheassumeddiscountrateto4.00%wouldhavedecreasedthecombinedbenefit

obligationsofalldefinedbenefitpostretirementplansby$61million.Underthislatterscenario,the

aggregateminimumliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2012wouldhavebeen$394millionratherthan

the$455millionactuallyrecordedandthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargetoaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincomewouldhavebeen$239millionratherthan$277million.TheCompanywasnot

requiredtomakeanycontributionstoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2012,2011or2010.

However,during2012and2011theCompanyelectedtomakecashcontributionsof$200millionand$70

million,respectively.TheCompanydidnotmakeanycontributionstoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpension

planin2010.InformationabouttheCompany™spensionplans,includingsignificantassumptionsutilizedin

completingactuarialcalculationsfortheplans,isincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplanin
whicheligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributions

totheplan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofan

employee™scontribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.RSPexpensetotaled

$31millionin2012,$28millionin2011and$25millionin2010.
ExpensesassociatedwiththedefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpensionplansandtheRSP
totaled$100millionin2012,$81millionin2011and$62millionin2010.Expenseassociatedwithproviding

medicalandotherpostretirementbenefitswas$5millionin2012and$4millionineachof2011and2010.
Excludingthenonoperatingexpenseitemsalreadynoted,nonpersonneloperatingexpensestotaled
$1.13billionin2012,comparedwith$1.14billionin2011.Higherexpensesin2012relatedtothefull-year

impactoftheoperationsobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustandprofessionalserviceswere

predominantlyoffsetbytheimpairmentchargerelatedtoBLGandtheCompany™scharitablecontributions,

bothreflectedin2011.Nonpersonneloperatingexpenseswere$856millionin2010.Theincreaseinsuch

expensesfrom2010to2011waslargelyattributabletotheimpactoftheoperationsobtainedinthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition,theimpairmentchargerelatedtoBLG,the$30millioncharitable

contributionin2011™sfourthquarterandhigherFDICassessments.
IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$523millionin2012,comparedwith$365millionin2011and

$357millionin2010.Theeffectivetaxrateswere33.7%,29.8%and32.6%in2012,2011and2010,

respectively.Theeffectivetaxrateisaffectedbythelevelofincomeearnedthatisexemptfromtaxrelativeto

theoveralllevelofpre-taxincome,thelevelofincomeallocatedtothevariousstateandlocaljurisdictions

wheretheCompanyoperates,becausetaxratesdifferamongsuchjurisdictions,andtheimpactofanylarge

butinfrequentlyoccurringitems.Forexample,therecognitionofthenon-taxablegainof$65milliononthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionservedtolowertheeffectivetaxratein2011.Incometaxesin2011alsoreflect

theresolutionofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositionsthatallowedtheCompanytoreduceitsaccrualfor

incometaxesintotalby$12million.Excludingtheimpactof(i)thenon-taxablegainof$65milliononthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionand(ii)the$12millionaccrualreversalrelatedtotheresolutionwithtaxing

authoritiesofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositions,theCompany™seffectivetaxratefor2011wouldhavebeen

32.5%.TheCompany™seffectivetaxrateinfutureperiodswillbeaffectedbytheresultsofoperations
allocatedtothevarioustaxjurisdictionswithinwhichtheCompanyoperates,anychangeinincometaxlaws

orregulationswithinthosejurisdictions,andinterpretationsofincometaxregulationsthatdifferfromthe

Company™sinterpretationsbyanyofvarioustaxauthoritiesthatmayexaminetaxreturnsfiledbyM&Tor

anyofitssubsidiaries.Informationaboutamountsaccruedforuncertaintaxpositionsandareconciliation

ofincometaxexpensetotheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometaxratetopre-tax

incomeisprovidedinnote13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
78InternationalActivities
TheCompany™snetinvestmentininternationalassetsaggregated$179millionatDecember31,2012and

$160millionatDecember31,2011.Suchassetsincluded$149millionand$128million,respectively,of

loanstoforeignborrowers.DepositsintheCompany™sofficeintheCaymanIslandstotaled$1.0billionat

December31,2012and$356millionatDecember31,2011.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitate

customerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseem

reasonable.M&TBankopenedafull-servicecommercialbranchinOntario,Canadaduringthesecond

quarterof2010.LoansanddepositsatthatbranchasofDecember31,2012were$139millionand

$22million,respectively,comparedwith$116millionand$14million,respectively,atDecember31,2011.

AsaresultoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,theCompanyofferstrust-relatedservicesinEuropeandthe

CaymanIslands.Revenuesfromprovidingsuchservicesduring2012and2011wereapproximately$24

millionand$15million,respectively.
Liquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity
Asafinancialintermediary,theCompanyisexposedtovariousrisks,includingliquidityandmarketrisk.

LiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowandliquidassetsareavailableto

satisfycurrentandfutureobligations,includingdemandsforloansanddepositwithdrawals,funding

operatingcosts,andothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskariseswheneverthematuritiesoffinancial

instrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.
ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits,whicharegeneratedfroma
largebaseofconsumer,corporateandinstitutionalcustomers.Thatcustomerbasehas,overthepastseveral

years,becomemoregeographicallydiverseasaresultofacquisitionsandexpansionoftheCompany™s

businesses.Nevertheless,theCompanyfacescompetitioninofferingproductsandservicesfromalarge

arrayoffinancialmarketparticipants,includingbanks,thrifts,mutualfunds,securitiesdealersandothers.

Coredepositsfinanced86%oftheCompany™searningassetsatDecember31,2012,comparedwith83%

and77%atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Theincreasesintheamountofearningassets

financedbycoredepositsatthe2012and2011year-endsascomparedwithDecember31,2010reflect

higherlevelsofcoredeposits,largelyduetohighernoninterest-bearingdeposits,thathaveallowedthe

Companytoreduceshort-termandlong-termborrowings.
TheCompanysupplementsfundingprovidedthroughcoredepositswithvariousshort-termand
long-termwholesaleborrowings,includingfederalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreementsto

repurchase,brokeredcertificatesofdeposit,CaymanIslandsofficedepositsandborrowingsfromtheFHLBs

andothers.AtDecember31,2012,M&TBankhadshort-termandlong-termcreditfacilitieswiththe

FHLBsaggregating$9.8billion.OutstandingborrowingsunderFHLBcreditfacilitiestotaled$30million

and$1.4billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Suchborrowingsweresecuredbyloansand

investmentsecurities.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederal

ReserveBankofNewYorkthattotaledapproximately$11.7billionatDecember31,2012.Theamountsof

thoselinesaredependentuponthebalancesofloansandsecuritiespledgedascollateral.Therewereno

borrowingsoutstandingundersuchlinesofcreditatDecember31,2012orDecember31,2011.
TheCompanyhas,fromtimetotime,issuedsubordinatedcapitalnotesandjuniorsubordinated
debenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiestoprovideliquidityandenhanceregulatorycapital

ratios.SuchnotesqualifyforinclusionintheCompany™scapitalasdefinedbyFederalregulators.However,

pursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecurities

willbephased-outofthedefinitionofTier1capitaloverathree-yearperiodwhichbeganJanuary1,2013.

InformationabouttheCompany™sborrowingsisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyhasinformalandsometimesreciprocalsourcesoffundingavailablethroughvarious
arrangementsforunsecuredshort-termborrowingsfromawidegroupofbanksandotherfinancial

institutions.Short-termfederalfundsborrowingswere$939millionand$590millionatDecember31,2012

and2011,respectively.Ingeneral,thoseborrowingswereunsecuredandmaturedonthenextbusinessday.

Aspreviouslynoted,CaymanIslandsofficedepositsandbrokeredcertificatesofdeposithavebeenusedby

theCompanyasanalternativetoshort-termborrowings.CaymanIslandsofficedepositsalsogenerally

matureonthenextbusinessdayandtotaled$1.0billionand$356millionatDecember31,2012and2011,

respectively.OutstandingbrokeredtimedepositsatDecember31,2012andDecember31,2011were

$462millionand$1.0billion,respectively.BrokeredtimedepositsassumedintheWilmingtonTrust

transactionaggregated$1.4billionattheacquisitiondate.AtDecember31,2012,theweighted-average

remainingtermtomaturityofbrokeredtimedepositswas7months.Certainofthesebrokereddeposits
79haveprovisionsthatallowforearlyredemption.TheCompanyalsohasbrokeredNOWandbrokered
money-marketdepositaccountswhichaggregated$1.1billionateachofDecember31,2012and2011.
TheCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegativelyimpacted
shouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionoritsdebtratings,or

shouldtheavailabilityofshort-termfundingbecomerestrictedduetoadisruptioninthefinancialmarkets.

TheCompanyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimatetheliquidity

impactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.Suchimpactisestimated

byattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesofcredit,availablecapacityfromsecured

borrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.InformationaboutthecreditratingsofM&TandM&TBankis

presentedintable16.AdditionalinformationregardingthetermsandmaturitiesofalloftheCompany™s

short-termandlong-termborrowingsisprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inadditionto

depositsandborrowings,othersourcesofliquidityincludematuritiesofinvestmentsecuritiesandother

earningassets,repaymentsofloansandinvestmentsecurities,andcashgeneratedfromoperations,suchas

feescollectedforservices.
Table16
DEBTRATINGS
Moody™sStandardandPoor™s
FitchM&TBankCorporation
Seniordebt
...................................................A3AŒAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................Baa1BBB+BBB+
M&TBank
Short-termdeposits
............................................Prime-1A-1F1
Long-termdeposits
............................................A2AA
Seniordebt
...................................................A2AAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................A3AŒ
BBB+CertaincustomersoftheCompanyobtainfinancingthroughtheissuanceofvariableratedemand
bonds(ﬁVRDBsﬂ).TheVRDBsaregenerallyenhancedbylettersofcreditprovidedbyM&TBank.M&T

BankoftentimesactsasremarketingagentfortheVRDBsand,atitsdiscretion,mayfromtime-to-timeown

someoftheVRDBswhilesuchinstrumentsareremarketed.Whenthisoccurs,theVRDBsareclassifiedas

tradingassetsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.Nevertheless,M&TBankisnotcontractually

obligatedtopurchasetheVRDBs.ThevalueofVRDBsintheCompany™stradingaccounttotaled$7million

and$40millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.AteachofDecember31,2012and2011,the

VRDBsoutstandingbackedbyM&TBanklettersofcredittotaled$1.9billion.M&TBankalsoservesas

remarketingagentformostofthosebonds.
Table17
MATURITYDISTRIBUTIONOFSELECTEDLOANS(a)
December31,2012
Demand20132014-2017After2017
(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,etc.
....................$6,580,590$2,467,660$6,524,710$782,662
RealestateŠconstruction
....................189,2131,393,6661,668,723299,693
Total....................................$6,769,803$3,861,326$8,193,433$1,082,355
Floatingoradjustableinterestrates
..............$6,489,840$637,604
Fixedorpredeterminedinterestrates
............1,703,593444,751
Total....................................$8,193,433$1,082,355
(a)Thedatadonotincludenonaccrualloans.
80TheCompanyentersintocontractualobligationsinthenormalcourseofbusinesswhichrequire
futurecashpayments.ThecontractualamountsandtimingofthosepaymentsasofDecember31,2012are

summarizedintable18.Off-balancesheetcommitmentstocustomersmayimpactliquidity,including

commitmentstoextendcredit,standbylettersofcredit,commerciallettersofcredit,financialguarantees

andindemnificationcontracts,andcommitmentstosellrealestateloans.Becausemanyofthese

commitmentsorcontractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenot

necessarilyindicativeoffuturecashflows.Furtherdiscussionofthesecommitmentsisprovidedinnote21

ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Table18summarizestheCompany™sothercommitmentsasof

December31,2012andthetimingoftheexpirationofsuchcommitments.
Table18
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDOTHERCOMMITMENTS
December31,2012
LessThanOne
YearOnetoThree
YearsThreetoFive
YearsOverFive
YearsTotal(Inthousands)
Paymentsdueforcontractual
obligationsTimedeposits
...............$
3,575,766$739,495$234,165$12,940$4,562,366
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office....................1,044,519ŠŠŠ1,044,519
Federalfundspurchasedand
agreementstorepurchase

securities.................1,074,482ŠŠŠ1,074,482
Long-termborrowings
........258,10228,2201,864,8452,456,5914,607,758
Operatingleases
.............76,772144,72995,804142,520459,825
Other......................56,76525,55714,7485,952103,022
Total......................$
6,086,406$938,001$2,209,562$2,618,003$11,851,972
Othercommitments
Commitmentstoextend
credit....................$
9,111,575$5,817,504$4,108,807$3,270,420$22,308,306
Standbylettersofcredit
.......1,857,7711,533,932547,61986,0074,025,329
Commerciallettersofcredit
....18,87734,324ŠŠ53,201
Financialguaranteesand
indemnificationcontracts...145,761260,508307,1881,406,9042,120,361
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans....................2,617,7517,657ŠŠ2,625,408
Total......................$13,751,735$7,653,925$4,963,614$4,763,331$31,132,605
M&T™sprimarysourceoffundstopayforoperatingexpenses,shareholderdividendsandtreasury
stockrepurchaseshashistoricallybeenthereceiptofdividendsfromitsbankingsubsidiaries,whichare

subjecttovariousregulatorylimitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbythe

amountofearningsofthebankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandthetwoprecedingyears.Forpurposes

ofthattest,atDecember31,2012approximately$944millionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendsto

M&Tfrombankingsubsidiaries.Thesehistoricsourcesofcashflowhavebeenaugmentedinthepastbythe

issuanceoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandseniornotespayable.Informationregardingtrustpreferred

securitiesandtherelatedjuniorsubordinateddebenturesisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.The$300millionof5.375%seniornotesofM&Tthatwereissuedin2007maturedandwere

repaidin2012.M&Talsomaintainsa$30millionlineofcreditwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbank,of

whichtherewerenoborrowingsoutstandingatDecember31,2012.Asimilar$30millionlineofcreditwas

entirelyavailableforborrowingatDecember31,2011.
81Table19
MATURITYANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTYIELDOFINVESTMENTSECURITIES
December31,2012
OneYear
orLess
OnetoFive
YearsFivetoTen
YearsOverTen
YearsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale(a)

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
Carryingvalue
........................................$
2,047$35,505$1,792$Š$39,344
Yield................................................1.64%1.71%2.04%Š1.72%
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
........................................1,6533,4735,65310,12220,901
Yield................................................6.12%5.71%4.01%1.68%3.33%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
Carryingvalue
......................................131,173551,105641,3972,047,3663,371,041
Yield..............................................3.25%3.24%3.25%3.26%3.25%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue
......................................27,930132,035175,309688,6121,023,886
Yield..............................................3.24%3.21%3.18%3.19%3.19%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................1,2524,1612,772165,634173,819
Yield................................................1.41%3.88%4.42%4.00%3.99%
Equitysecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................ŠŠŠŠ
110,446Yield................................................ŠŠŠŠ
1.06%Totalinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
Carryingvalue
........................................164,055726,279826,9232,911,7344,739,437
Yield................................................3.24%3.17%3.24%3.28%3.20%
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
........................................26,71650,310104,901176182,103
Yield................................................4.15%5.17%5.59%6.71%5.26%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
Carryingvalue
......................................30,376135,669206,530224,765597,340
Yield..............................................2.94%2.94%2.94%2.94%2.94%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue
......................................7,38830,26139,788164,941242,378
Yield..............................................2.66%2.68%2.72%2.91%2.84%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................ŠŠŠ
10,45510,455
Yield................................................ŠŠŠ
5.48%5.48%
Totalinvestmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Carryingvalue
........................................64,480216,240351,219400,3371,032,276
Yield................................................3.41%3.42%3.71%3.00%3.35%
Otherinvestmentsecurities
................................ŠŠŠŠ
302,648Totalinvestmentsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................$228,535$942,519$1,178,142$3,312,071$6,074,361
Yield................................................3.29%3.23%3.38%3.25%3.07%
(a)Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearepresentedatestimatedfairvalue.Yieldsonsuchsecuritiesarebasedon
amortizedcost.
(b)Maturitiesarereflectedbaseduponcontractualpaymentsdue.Actualmaturitiesareexpectedtobesignificantly
shorterasaresultofloanrepaymentsintheunderlyingmortgagepools.
82ManagementcloselymonitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositiononanongoingbasisforcompliance
withinternalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailablesourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfundingneeds

anticipatedinthenormalcourseofbusiness.Managementdoesnotanticipateengaginginanyactivities,

eithercurrentlyorinthelong-term,forwhichadequatefundingwouldnotbeavailableandwouldtherefore

resultinasignificantstrainonliquidityateitherM&Toritssubsidiarybanks.
Marketriskistheriskoflossfromadversechangesinthemarketpricesand/orinterestratesofthe
Company™sfinancialinstruments.TheprimarymarketrisktheCompanyisexposedtoisinterestraterisk.

InterestrateriskarisesfromtheCompany™scorebankingactivitiesoflendinganddeposit-taking,because

assetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamountsasinterestrateschange.Asaresult,

netinterestincomeearnedbytheCompanyissubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.TheCompany

measuresinterestrateriskbycalculatingthevariabilityofnetinterestincomeinfutureperiodsunder

variousinterestratescenariosusingprojectedbalancesforearningassets,interest-bearingliabilitiesand

derivativesusedtohedgeinterestraterisk.Management™sphilosophytowardinterestrateriskmanagement

istolimitthevariabilityofnetinterestincome.Thebalancesoffinancialinstrumentsusedintheprojections

arebasedonexpectedgrowthfromforecastedbusinessopportunities,anticipatedprepaymentsofloansand

investmentsecurities,andexpectedmaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities,loansanddeposits.Management

usesaﬁvalueofequityﬂmodeltosupplementthemodelingtechniquedescribedabove.Thosesupplemental

analysesarebasedondiscountedcashflowsassociatedwithon-andoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.

Suchanalysesaremodeledtoreflectchangesininterestratesandprovidemanagementwithalong-term

interestrateriskmetric.TheCompanyhasenteredintointerestrateswapagreementstohelpmanage

exposuretointerestraterisk.AtDecember31,2012,theaggregatenotionalamountofinterestrateswap

agreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposeswas$900million.Informationabout

interestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposesisincludedherein

undertheheadingﬁNetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivitiesﬂandinnote18ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
Table20
MATURITYOFDOMESTICCERTIFICATESOFDEPOSITANDTIMEDEPOSITS
WITHBALANCESOF$100,000ORMORE
December31,2012
(Inthousands)
Under3months
.............................................................$
312,8013to6months
...............................................................183,1496to12months
..............................................................292,644Over12months
.............................................................241,334Total....................................................................$1,029,928TheCompany™sRiskManagementCommittee,whichincludesmembersofseniormanagement,
monitorsthesensitivityoftheCompany™snetinterestincometochangesininterestrateswiththeaidofa

computermodelthatforecastsnetinterestincomeunderdifferentinterestratescenarios.Inmodeling

changinginterestrates,theCompanyconsidersdifferentyieldcurveshapesthatconsiderbothparallel(that

is,simultaneouschangesininterestratesateachpointontheyieldcurve)andnon-parallel(thatis,allowing

interestratesatpointsontheyieldcurvetovarybydifferentamounts)shiftsintheyieldcurve.Inutilizing

themodel,marketimpliedforwardinterestratesoverthesubsequenttwelvemonthsaregenerallyusedto

determineabaseinterestratescenarioforthenetinterestincomesimulation.Thatcalculatedbasenet

interestincomeisthencomparedtotheincomecalculatedunderthevaryinginterestratescenarios.The

modelconsiderstheimpactofongoinglendinganddeposit-gatheringactivities,aswellasinterrelationships

inthemagnitudeandtimingoftherepricingoffinancialinstruments,includingtheeffectofchanging

interestratesonexpectedprepaymentsandmaturities.Whendeemedprudent,managementhastaken

actionstomitigateexposuretointerestrateriskthroughtheuseofon-oroff-balancesheetfinancial

instrumentsandintendstodosointhefuture.Possibleactionsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,changesin

thepricingofloananddepositproducts,modifyingthecompositionofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities,andaddingto,modifyingorterminatingexistinginterestrateswapagreementsorotherfinancial

instrumentsusedforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes.
83Table21displaysasofDecember31,2012and2011theestimatedimpactonnetinterestincome
fromnon-tradingfinancialinstrumentsinthebasescenariodescribedaboveresultingfromparallelchanges

ininterestratesacrossrepricingcategoriesduringthefirstmodelingyear.
Table21
SENSITIVITYOFNETINTERESTINCOMETOCHANGESININTERESTRATES
CalculatedIncrease
(Decrease)inProjected
NetInterestIncome
December31
ChangesinInterestRates
20122011(Inthousands)
+200basispoints
......................................................$210,030$117,826
+100basispoints
......................................................117,19864,103
Œ100basispoints
.......................................................(69,687)(62,055)
Œ200basispoints
.......................................................(90,333)(83,369)
TheCompanyutilizedmanyassumptionstocalculatetheimpactthatchangesininterestratesmay
haveonnetinterestincome.Themoresignificantofthoseassumptionsincludedtherateofprepaymentsof

mortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsfromderivativeandotherfinancialinstrumentsheldfornon-trading

purposes,loananddepositvolumesandpricing,anddepositmaturities.Inthescenariospresented,the

Companyalsoassumedgradualchangesinratesduringatwelve-monthperiodof100and200basispoints,

ascomparedwiththeassumedbasescenario.Intheeventthata100or200basispointratechangecannot

beachieved,theapplicableratechangesarelimitedtolesseramountssuchthatinterestratescannotbeless

thanzero.Theassumptionsusedininterestratesensitivitymodelingareinherentlyuncertainand,asa

result,theCompanycannotpreciselypredicttheimpactofchangesininterestratesonnetinterestincome.

Actualresultsmaydiffersignificantlyfromthosepresentedduetothetiming,magnitudeandfrequencyof

changesininterestratesandchangesinmarketconditionsandinterestratedifferentials(spreads)between

maturity/repricingcategories,aswellasanyactions,suchasthosepreviouslydescribed,whichmanagement

maytaketocountersuchchanges.Thechangeininterestratesensitivitytorisinginterestratesat

December31,2012ascomparedwithDecember31,2011reflectsahigherpercentageoffundingcoming

fromcoredeposits,includingnoninterest-bearingdeposits,agreatermixofvariableratecommercialloans,

andupdatedprojecteddepositpricingassumptions.Partiallyoffsettingthosechangeswasthegrowthin

fixedrateresidentialrealestateloans.
Table22presentscumulativetotalsofnetassets(liabilities)repricingonacontractualbasiswithin
thespecifiedtimeframes,asadjustedfortheimpactofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposes.Managementbelievesthatthismeasuredoesnotappropriately

depictinterestraterisksincechangesininterestratesdonotnecessarilyaffectallcategoriesofearningassets

andinterest-bearingliabilitiesequallynor,asassumedinthetable,onthecontractualmaturityorrepricing

date.Furthermore,thisstaticpresentationofinterestrateriskfailstoconsidertheeffectofongoinglending

anddepositgatheringactivities,projectedchangesinbalancesheetcompositionoranysubsequentinterest

rateriskmanagementactivitiestheCompanyislikelytoimplement.
84Table22
CONTRACTUALREPRICINGDATA
December31,2012
ThreeMonths
orLess
FourtoTwelve
MonthsOneto
FiveYears
AfterFiveYears
Total(Dollarsinthousands)
Loansandleases,net
.............$37,537,333$4,997,380$12,184,498$11,851,746$66,570,957
Investmentsecurities
............1,329,87770,369188,9494,485,1666,074,361
Otherearningassets
.............212,523600100Š213,223
Totalearningassets
..............39,079,7335,068,34912,373,54716,336,91272,858,541
NOWaccounts
.................1,979,619ŠŠŠ1,979,619
Savingsdeposits
.................33,783,947ŠŠŠ33,783,947
Timedeposits
..................1,261,1292,319,586968,71112,9404,562,366
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice..1,044,519ŠŠŠ1,044,519
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
.....38,069,2142,319,586968,71112,94041,370,451
Short-termborrowings
...........1,074,482ŠŠŠ1,074,482
Long-termborrowings
...........648,989255,8651,833,9351,868,9694,607,758
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
....39,792,6852,575,4512,802,6461,881,90947,052,691
Interestrateswaps
...............(900,000)Š900,000ŠŠ
Periodicgap
....................$
(1,612,952)$2,492,898$10,470,901$14,455,003
Cumulativegap
.................(1,612,952)879,94611,350,84725,805,850
Cumulativegapasa%oftotal
earningassets
.................(2.2)%1.2%15.6%35.4%
ChangesinfairvalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentscanalsoresultfromalackoftrading
activityforsimilarinstrumentsinthefinancialmarkets.Thatimpactismostnotableonthevaluesassigned

totheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities.Informationaboutthefairvaluationofsuchsecuritiesispresented

hereinundertheheadingﬁCapitalﬂandinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyengagesintradingactivitiestomeetthefinancialneedsofcustomers,tofundthe
Company™sobligationsundercertaindeferredcompensationplansand,toalimitedextent,toprofitfrom

perceivedmarketopportunities.Financialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesconsistpredominantlyof

interestratecontracts,suchasswapagreements,andforwardandfuturescontractsrelatedtoforeign

currencies,buthavealsoincludedinvestmentsinU.S.Treasuryandothergovernmentsecurities,mutual

fundsand,aspreviouslydescribed,alimitednumberofVRDBs.TheCompanygenerallymitigatesthe

foreigncurrencyandinterestrateriskassociatedwithtradingactivitiesbyenteringintooffsettingtrading

positions.Thefairvaluesoftheoffsettingtradingpositionsassociatedwithinterestratecontractsand

foreigncurrencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsispresentedinnote18ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Theamountsofgrossandnettradingpositions,aswellasthetypeoftradingactivities

conductedbytheCompany,aresubjecttoawell-definedseriesofpotentiallossexposurelimitsestablished

bymanagementandapprovedbyM&T™sBoardofDirectors.However,aswithanynon-government

guaranteedfinancialinstrument,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterpartiestothe

Company™stradingactivities.
Thenotionalamountsofinterestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated
$15.5billionatDecember31,2012and$13.9billionatDecember31,2011.Thenotionalamountsofforeign

currencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposestotaled$869millionand

$1.4billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Althoughthenotionalamountsofthesetrading

contractsarenotrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet,thefairvaluesofallfinancialinstrumentsused

fortradingactivitiesarerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thefairvaluesoftradingaccountassets

andliabilitieswere$489millionand$374million,respectively,atDecember31,2012and$562millionand

$435million,respectively,atDecember31,2011.IncludedintradingaccountassetsatDecember31,2012

and2011were$36millionand$34million,respectively,ofassetsrelatedtodeferredcompensationplans.
85Changesinthefairvalueofsuchassetsarerecordedasﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂinthe
consolidatedstatementofincome.Includedinﬁotherliabilitiesﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheetat

December31,2012and2011were$30millionand$32million,respectively,ofliabilitiesrelatedtodeferred

compensationplans.Changesinthebalancesofsuchliabilitiesduetothevaluationofallocatedinvestment

optionstowhichtheliabilitiesareindexedarerecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.
GiventheCompany™spolicies,limitsandpositions,managementbelievesthatthepotentialloss
exposuretotheCompanyresultingfrommarketriskassociatedwithtradingactivitieswasnotmaterial,

however,aspreviouslynoted,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterpartiesto

transactionsassociatedwiththeCompany™stradingactivities.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™s

useofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinitstradingactivitiesisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.CapitalShareholders™equitywas$10.2billionatDecember31,2012andrepresented12.29%oftotalassets,

comparedwith$9.3billionor11.90%atDecember31,2011and$8.4billionor12.29%atDecember31,

2010.Includedinshareholders™equitywaspreferredstockwithfinancialstatementcarryingvaluesof$873
millionatDecember31,2012and$865millionatDecember31,2011.Asdiscussedearlier,theU.S.Treasury

completedapublicofferingofitsholdingofM&TSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredstockinAugust2012,

resultinginM&T™sexitfromtheTARP.AtDecember31,2012and2011,preferredstockincluded$373

millionand$365million,respectively,forSeriesAandSeriesCFixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferred

Stock.Theredemptionvalueofthoseseriesofstockwas$381.5millionateachofDecember31,2012and

2011.TheSeriesApreferredstockandwarrantstoissueM&Tcommonstockwereissuedin2008for$600

million.Duringthesecondquarterof2011,M&Tredeemed$370millionoftheSeriesApreferredstock.

ThefinancialstatementvalueoftheoutstandingSeriesApreferredstockwas$227millionand$224million

atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.TheSeriesCpreferredstockoriginallyrepresenteda$151.5

millionissuancein2008totheU.S.TreasurybyProvidentthatwasconvertedintoM&Tpreferredstockand

warrantstopurchaseM&TcommonstockuponM&T™sacquisitionofProvidentonMay23,2009.The

financialstatementcarryingvalueoftheSeriesCpreferredstockwas$146millionand$140millionat

December31,2012and2011,respectively.InconjunctionwiththeU.S.Treasury™spublicofferingofits

holdingofM&TSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredstock,M&TmodifiedcertainofthetermsoftheSeriesA

andSeriesCPreferredStock,withsuchmodificationsbeingsubjecttoM&Tcommonshareholderapproval.

Themodificationsrelatedtothedividendrateonthepreferredsharesattheresetdates,whichwasoriginally

settochangeto9%onNovember15,2013fortheSeriesCpreferredsharesandonFebruary15,2014for

theSeriesApreferredshares.Ineachcase,thedividendratewillnowchangeto6.375%onNovember15,

2013ratherthantothe9%intheoriginalterms.TheothermodificationrelatedtoM&Tagreeingtonot

redeemtheSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredsharesuntilonorafterNovember15,2018,exceptthatifan

eventoccurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1capital,M&Tmayredeemalloftheshares

within90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.OnMay31,2011,M&Tissued50,000sharesofSeriesDPerpetual

6.875%Non-CumulativePreferredStock,parvalue$1.00pershareandliquidationpreferenceof$10,000

pershare.HoldersofSeriesDpreferredstockareentitledtoreceive,onlywhen,asandifdeclaredbythe

BoardofDirectors,non-cumulativecashdividendsatanannualrateof6.875%,payablesemi-annuallyin

arrears.TheSeriesDpreferredstockisredeemableonorafterJune15,2016inwholeorinpartatparplus

anydeclaredbutunpaiddividends.Notwithstandingtheredemptionprovisionsnotedandsubjectto

regulatoryapproval,M&TmayredeemalloftheoutstandingsharesofSeriesDpreferredstockifa

regulatorycapitaltreatmenteventtakesplacewherebythefullliquidationvalueofthesharesnolonger

qualifiesasTier1capital.Inaccordancewiththeirterms,onApril1,2011,the26,500sharesofSeriesB

preferredstockconvertedinto433,144sharesofM&Tcommonstock.TheSeriesBpreferredstockhadpaid

quarterlydividendsatarateof10%perannum.FurtherinformationconcerningM&T™spreferredstockcan

befoundinnote10ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Commonshareholders™equitywas$9.3billion,or$72.73pershare,atDecember31,2012,compared
with$8.4billion,or$66.82pershare,atDecember31,2011and$7.6billion,or$63.54pershare,at

December31,2010.Tangibleequitypercommonshare,whichexcludesgoodwillandcoredepositandother
86intangibleassetsandapplicabledeferredtaxbalances,was$44.61atDecember31,2012,comparedwith
$37.79and$33.26atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.TheCompany™sratiooftangiblecommon

equitytotangibleassetswas7.20%atDecember31,2012,comparedwith6.40%and6.19%atDecember31,

2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.Reconciliationsoftotalcommonshareholders™equityand

tangiblecommonequityandtotalassetsandtangibleassetsasofDecember31,2012,2011and2010are

presentedintable2.During2012,2011and2010,theratioofaveragetotalshareholders™equitytoaverage

totalassetswas12.13%,12.17%and11.85%,respectively.Theratioofaveragecommonshareholders™equity

toaveragetotalassetswas11.04%,11.09%and10.77%in2012,2011and2010,respectively.
Shareholders™equityreflectsaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeorloss,whichincludesthe
netafter-taximpactofunrealizedgainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,

unrealizedlossesonheld-to-maturitysecuritiesforwhichanother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargehas

beenrecognized,gainsorlossesassociatedwithinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflow

hedges,foreigncurrencytranslationadjustmentsandadjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefined

benefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans.Netunrealizedgainsonavailable-for-saleinvestment

securities,netofapplicabletaxeffect,were$37million,or$.29percommonshare,atDecember31,2012,

comparedwithnetunrealizedlossesof$78million,or$.62percommonshare,atDecember31,2011,and

$85million,or$.71percommonshare,atDecember31,2010.Suchunrealizedgainsandlossesrepresent

thedifference,netofapplicableincometaxeffect,betweentheestimatedfairvalueandamortizedcostof

investmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,includingtheremainingunamortizedunrealizedlosses

oninvestmentsecuritiesthathavebeentransferredtoheld-to-maturityclassification.Informationabout

unrealizedgainsandlossesasofDecember31,2012and2011isincludedinnote3ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.ReflectedinnetunrealizedgainsatDecember31,2012werepretax-effectunrealizedlossesof
$157milliononavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$1.2billionandpre-tax

effectunrealizedgainsof$254milliononsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$3.5billion.Thepre-taxeffect

unrealizedlossesreflect$126millionoflossesonprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities

withanamortizedcostof$1.0billionandanestimatedfairvalueof$895million(consideredLevel3

valuations)and$27millionoflossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionshavingan

amortizedcostof$123millionandanestimatedfairvalueof$96million(generallyconsideredLevel2

valuations).TheCompany™sprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale
aregenerallycollateralizedbyprimeandAlt-Aresidentialmortgageloansasdepictedintable23.

InformationinthetableisasofDecember31,2012.Aswithanyaccountingestimateorotherdata,changes

infairvaluesandinvestmentratingsmayoccuratanytime.
87Table23
PRIVATELYISSUEDMORTGAGE-BACKEDSECURITIES(a)
AsaPercentageofFair
ValueCurrentPayment
Status(c)
CollateralType
AmortizedCostFairValue
NetUnrealized
Gains(Losses)
InvestmentGradeSeniorTrancheCreditEnhance-ment(b)
BondswithOTTIBondswithoutOTTI(Dollarsinthousands)
Investmentsecuritiesavailablefor
sale:Residentialmortgageloans

PrimeŠfixed
...................$
38,021$41,514$3,49360%99%6%Š%(d)100%
PrimeŠhybridARMs.
...........971,752873,775(97,977)2397621100
Alt-AŠhybridARMs.
............111,83186,710(25,121)1391935100
Other..........................12,03510,887(1,148)Š6621Š(d)100
Subtotal....................1,133,6391,012,886(120,753)24%96%6%22%100%
Commercialmortgageloans
........8,64811,0002,352Š%100%100%Š%(d)100%
Totalinvestmentsecuritiesavailable
forsale.......................
1,142,2871,023,886(118,401)24%96%7%22%100%
Investmentsecuritiesheldto
maturity:Residentialandcommercialmortgage
loans.........................242,378147,638(94,740)36%92%23%Š%100%
Total......................$1,384,665$1,171,524$(213,141)25%96%10%22%100%
(a)AllinformationisasofDecember31,2012.
(b)Weighted-averagecreditenhancementiscalculatedbydividingtheremainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofbonds
subordinatetothebondsownedbytheCompanyplusanyovercollateralizationremaininginthesecuritization

structurebytheremainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofallbondsinthesecuritizationstructure.
(c)Representspercentageofamortizedcostrelatedtobondsforwhichcontractuallyrequiredprincipalandinterest
paymentsexpectedatacquisitioncontinuetobereceived.
(d)Therearenobondsinthiscategory.
88Inestimatingvaluesforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanywasrestrictedin
thelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsusedinthevaluationofsuchsecurities.Becauseofreduced

tradingactivityandlackofobservablevaluationinputs,theCompanyconsiderstheestimatedfairvalue

associatedwithitsholdingsofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiestobeLevel3valuations.Toassist

inthedeterminationoffairvalueforitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyengaged

twoindependentpricingsourcesatDecember31,2012and2011.GAAPprovidesguidanceforestimating

fairvaluewhenthevolumeandleveloftradingactivityforanassetorliabilityhavesignificantlydecreased.

Inconsiderationofthatguidance,theCompanyperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsand

fairvalueofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcostbasisof$1.1

billionatDecember31,2012and$1.3billionatDecember31,2011.TheCompany™sinternalmodeling

techniquesincludeddiscountingestimatedbond-specificcashflowsusingassumptionsaboutcashflows

associatedwithloansunderlyingeachofthebonds.Inestimatingthosecashflows,theCompanyused

conservativeassumptionsastodefaultandlossratesinordertomitigateexposurethatmightbeattributable

totheriskthatactualfuturecreditlossescouldexceedassumedcreditlosses.Differencesbetweeninternal

modelvaluationsandexternalpricingindicationsweregenerallyconsideredtobereflectiveofthelackof

liquidityinthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Todeterminethemost

representativefairvalueforthosebondsundercurrentmarketconditions,theCompanyaveragedthe

internalmodelvaluationsandtheindicationsobtainedfromthetwoindependentpricingsourcesresulting

inaone-thirdweightingontheinternalmodelvaluationandatwo-thirdsweightingonvaluationsprovided

bytheindependentsources.FurtherinformationconcerningtheCompany™svaluationsofprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecuritiescanbefoundinnote20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
During2012theCompanyrecognized$48million(pre-tax)ofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses
relatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
.Inassessingimpairmentlossesfordebtsecurities,the
Companyperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflows,whichconsideredtheplacementof

thebondintheoverallsecuritizationstructureandtheremaininglevelsofsubordination.
Forprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,themodelingforother-than-temporary
impairmentutilizedassumptionsabouttheexpectedunderlyingperformanceofthemortgageloan

collateralconsideringrecentcollateralperformanceandfutureassumptionsregardingdefaultandloss

severity.AtDecember31,2012,projectedmodeldefaultpercentagesontheunderlyingmortgageloan

collateralrangedfrom2%to27%andlossseveritiesrangedfrom21%to78%.Forbondsinwhichthe

Companyhasrecognizedanother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharge,theweighted-averagepercentageof

defaultcollateralwas18%andtheweighted-averagelossseveritywas48%.Forbondswithoutother-than-

temporaryimpairmentlosses,theweighted-averagedefaultpercentageandlossseveritywere10%and37%,

respectively.Underlyingmortgageloancollateralcashflows,afterconsideringtheimpactofestimatedcredit

losses,weredistributedbythemodeltothevarioussecuritieswithinthesecuritizationstructureto

determinethetimingandextentoflossesatthebond-level,ifany.Despitecontinuinghighlevelsof

delinquenciesandlossesintheunderlyingresidentialmortgageloancollateral,givencreditenhancements

resultingfromthestructuresofindividualbonds,theCompanyhasconcludedthatasofDecember31,2012

itsremainingprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswerenotother-than-temporarilyimpaired.

Nevertheless,givenrecentmarketconditions,itispossiblethatadversechangesinrepaymentperformance

andfairvaluecouldoccurin2013andlateryearsthatcouldimpacttheCompany™sconclusions.For

example,a20%increaseintheestimateddefaultrateassumptionanda20%increaseintheseverityrate

assumptionwouldhaveincreasedtheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerecognizedbythe

CompanyfortheyearendedDecember31,2012by$32million.Informationcomparingtheamortizedcost

andfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.The

Company™smodelasdescribedaboveusesprojecteddefaultandlossseverityassumptions.Informationon

thecurrentcreditenhancementandcurrentpaymentstatusofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities

atDecember31,2012isincludedintable23.
Similartoitsevaluationofavailable-for-saleprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,the
CompanyassessesimpairmentlossesonprivatelyissuedCMOsintheheld-to-maturityportfolioby

performinginternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflows,thatreflecttheplacementofthebondin

theoverallsecuritizationstructureandtheremainingsubordinationlevels.Asaresult,theCompany

recognized$5millionofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtoCMOsintheheld-to-maturity

portfolioduring2012.Intotal,atDecember31,2012and2011,theCompanyhadinitsheld-to-maturity

portfolioCMOswithanamortizedcostbasisof$242millionand$269million(afterimpairmentcharges),

respectively,andafairvalueof$148millionand$170million,respectively.
89AtDecember31,2012,theCompanyalsohadpre-taxunrealizedlossesof$28millionon
$130millionoftrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,securitiesbackedbytrustpreferred

securities,andotherdebtsecurities(reflecting$1millionofunrealizedlosseson$7millionofsecurities

usingaLevel3valuation).Pre-taxunrealizedlossesof$47millionexistedon$201millionofsuchsecurities

atDecember31,2011.Afterevaluatingtheexpectedrepaymentperformanceofthosebonds,theCompany

didnotrecognizeanyother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtothosesecuritiesduring2012.
During2011theCompanyrecognized$77million(pre-tax)ofother-than-temporarylossesrelated
toprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.During2010theCompanyrecognized$86million(pre-tax)

ofother-than-temporarylosses,including$68millionrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,

$6millionrelatedtosecuritiesbackedlargelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsand

$12millionrelatedtoAIBADSs.
AsofDecember31,2012,basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesintheinvestment
securitiesportfolio,theCompanyconcludedthatthedeclinesinthevaluesofthosesecuritieswere

temporaryandthatanyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeswerenotappropriate.Asof

thatdate,theCompanydidnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredtosellanyofits

impairedsecurities,thatis,wherefairvalueislessthanthecostbasisofthesecurity.TheCompanyintends

tocontinuetocloselymonitortheperformanceoftheprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandother

securitiesbecausechangesintheirunderlyingcreditperformanceorothereventscouldcausethecostbasis

ofthosesecuritiestobecomeother-than-temporarilyimpaired.However,becausetheunrealizedlosseson

available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavegenerallyalreadybeenreflectedinthefinancialstatementvalues

forinvestmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity,anyrecognitionofanother-than-temporarydeclinein

valueofthoseinvestmentsecuritieswouldnothaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sconsolidated

financialcondition.Anyother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoheld-to-maturitysecurities

wouldresultinreductionsinthefinancialstatementvaluesforinvestmentsecuritiesandshareholders™

equity.AdditionalinformationconcerningfairvaluemeasurementsandtheCompany™sapproachtothe

classificationofsuchmeasurementsisincludedinnote20oftheNotestoFinancialStatements.
Adjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans,
netofapplicabletaxeffect,reducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby$277million,or$2.16per

commonshare,atDecember31,2012,$278million,or$2.21percommonshare,atDecember31,2011,and

$121million,or$1.01percommonshare,atDecember31,2010.Theincreaseinsuchadjustmentat

December31,2011ascomparedwithDecember31,2010waspredominantlytheresultofa100basispoint

reductioninthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefinedbenefitplansat

December31,2011ascomparedwithayearearlier,inadditiontoactualinvestmentreturnsinthequalified

definedbenefitpensionplanthatwerelessthanexpectedreturns.Duringthethirdquartersof2012and

2011,theCompanycontributed$200millionand$70million,respectively,totheCompany™squalified

definedbenefitpensionplan.InformationaboutthefundedstatusoftheCompany™spensionandother

postretirementbenefitplansisincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
CashdividendsdeclaredonM&T™scommonstocktotaled$358millionin2012,comparedwith
$350millionand$336millionin2011and2010,respectively.Dividendspercommonsharetotaled$2.80in

eachof2012,2011and2010.Cashdividendsof$53millionin2012,$48millionin2011and$40millionin

2010weredeclaredandpaidonpreferredstockinaccordancewiththetermsofeachseries.
TheCompanydidnotrepurchaseanysharesofitscommonstockin2012,2011or2010.

FederalregulatorsgenerallyrequirebankinginstitutionstomaintainﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁtotalcapitalﬂ
ratiosofatleast4%and8%,respectively,ofrisk-adjust
edtotalassets.Inadditiontotherisk-basedmeasures,
Federalbankregulatorshavealsoimplementedaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioguidelineof3%ofthequarterly

averageoftotalassets.AtDecember31,2012,Tier1capitalincluded$1.2billionoftrustpreferredsecuritiesas

describedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandtotalcapitalfurtherincluded$1.5billionof

subordinatedcapitalnotes.PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outof

thedefinitionofTier1capitalofbankholdingcompanies.ThecapitalratiosoftheCompanyanditsbanking

subsidiariesasofDecember31,2012and2011arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
FourthQuarterResults
Netincomeduringthefinalquarterof2012rose100%to$296millionfrom$148millionintheyear-earlier

quarter.Dilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$2.16and$2.18,respectively,inthefourth

quarterof2012,up108%and110%from$1.04ofdilutedandbasicearningspercommonshareinthe

similar2011quarter.Onanannualizedbasis,theratesofreturnonaverageassetsandaveragecommon
90shareholders™equityfortherecentquarterwere1.45%and12.10%,respectively,comparedwith.75%and
6.12%,respectively,inthefourthquarterof2011.
Netoperatingincometotaled$305millionintherecentlycompletedquarter,comparedwith
$168millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$2.23and

$1.20inthefourthquartersof2012and2011,respectively.Theannualizednetoperatingreturnsonaverage

tangibleassetsandaveragetangiblecommonequityinthefourthquarterof2012were1.56%and20.46%,

respectively,comparedwith.89%and12.36%,respectively,inthecorrespondingquarterof2011.Core

depositandotherintangibleassetamortization,aftertaxeffect,totaled$8millionand$10millioninthe

fourthquartersof2012and2011($.07and$.08perdilutedcommonshare),respectively.Theafter-tax

impactofmerger-relatedexpensesassociatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitionwas$10million

($16millionpre-tax)or$.08ofdilutedearningspercommonshareinthefourthquarterof2011.There

werenomerger-relatedexpensesinthefourthquarterof2012.ReconciliationsofGAAPresultswithnon-

GAAPresultsforthequarterlyperiodsof2012and2011areprovidedintable25.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomeincreased8%to$674millionintherecentquarterfrom
$625millioninthefinalquarterof2011.Thatgrowthreflectsa$2.9billionor4%riseinaverageearning

assetsanda14basispointwideningoftheCompany™snetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetsinthe

fourthquarterof2012totaled$71.7billion,upfrom$68.8billionintheyear-earlierquarter.Thatgrowth

resultedfromhigheraverageloansandleases,whichrose$5.9billionor10%to$65.0billionintherecent

quarterfrom$59.1billionintheyear-earlierquarter.Thatloangrowthreplacedloweryieldinginvestment

securitiesandinterest-bearingdepositsatbankswhoseaveragebalancesdeclinedby$1.3billionand$1.7

billion,respectively.Averagecommercialloanandleasebalanceswere$17.0billionintherecentquarter,up

$1.6billionor10%from$15.4billioninthefourthquarterof2011.Commercialrealestateloansaveraged

$25.3billioninthefourthquarterof2012,up$1.2billionfrom$24.1billioninthesimilarquarterof2011.

Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflectshigherloandemandbycustomers.

Averageresidentialrealestateloansoutstandingrose48%or$3.6billionto$11.1billionintherecent

quarterfrom$7.5billioninthefinalquarterof2011.Includedintheresidentialrealestateloanportfolio

wereloansheldforsale,whichaveraged$997millionand$233millioninthefourthquartersof2012and

2011,respectively.Contributingtotheriseinaverageresidentialrealestateloanswastheimpactofthe

CompanyretainingforportfolioalargeportionofloansoriginatedsinceOctober1,2010.Consumerloans

averaged$11.6billionintherecentquarter,down$500million,or4%,from$12.1billioninthefourth2011

quarter.Totalloansincreased$2.5billionto$66.6billionatDecember31,2012from$64.1billionat

September30,2012.Thatgrowthwaslargelyattributabletoincreasesincommercialloans,commercialreal

estateloansandresidentialrealestateloans.Theyieldonearningassetswas4.17%ineachofthefourth

quartersof2012and2011.Theratepaidoninterest-bearingliabilitiesdeclined15basispointsto.67%in

therecentlycompletedquarterfrom.82%inthecorresponding2011quarter.Theresultingnetinterest

spreadwas3.50%inthefourthquarterof2012,up15basispointsfrom3.35%intheyear-earlierquarter.

Thatimprovementwaslargelyduetothechangedmixinearningassetsdescribedaboveanda$2.1billion

reductioninaveragelong-termborrowingsuponwhichtheCompanypayshigherratesofinterestthanon

deposits.Ascomparedtothefourthquarterof2011,averageinterest-bearingandnoninterest-bearing

depositsincreasedby$1.1billionand$3.2billion,respectively,intherecentquarter.Thecontributionof

netinterest-freefundstotheCompany™snetinterestmarginwas.24%intherecentquarter,comparedwith

.25%intheyear-earlierquarter.Asaresult,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwidenedto3.74%inthe

fourthquarterof2012from3.60%inthesimilar2011quarter.
Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$49millioninthethree-monthperiodendedDecember31,2012,
comparedwith$74millionintheyear-earlierperiod.Netcharge-offsofloanswere$44millioninthefinal

quarterof2012,representinganannualized.27%ofaverageloansandleasesoutstanding,comparedwith

$74millionor.50%duringthefinalquarterof2011.Netcharge-offsincluded:residentialrealestateloansof

$10millionintherecentlycompletedquarter,comparedwith$13millionin2011™sfinalquarter;loansto

buildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesof$8million,comparedwith$25millioninthe

fourthquarterof2011;othercommercialrealestateloansof$1million,comparedwith$2millionayear

earlier;commercialloansof$3million,comparedwith$11millionin2011;andconsumerloansof

$22million,comparedwith$23millionintheprioryear™sfourthquarter.
Otherincomeaggregated$453millionintherecentquarter,up14%from$398millionintheyear-
earlierquarter.Netlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges)

were$14millionduringthefourthquarterof2012,comparedwith$25millioninthefinal2011quarter.

Thelosseswereduetoother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtocertainoftheCompany™s
91privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Otherincomeinthefourthquarterof2011includedthe
$55millionlitigationsettlementrelatedtotheCompany™spurchaseofcertainCDOsduring2007.Excluding

netlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesandtheCDOlitigationsettlement,otherincomewas$468millionduring

2012™sfourthquarter,up27%from$368millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Thatriseinotherincomewas

predominantlyduetosignificantlyhigherresidentialmortgagebankingrevenues,whichrose$72millionto

$96millionintherecentquarterfrom$24millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Alsocontributingtothe

improvementwerehigherservicechargesondepositaccounts.
Otherexpenseinthefourthquarterof2012aggregated$626million,comparedwith$740millionin
theyear-earlierquarter.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature

consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$14millionand$17millioninthe

fourthquartersof2012and2011,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$16millioninthethree-

monthperiodendedDecember31,2011.Therewerenomerger-relatedexpensesinthefourthquarterof

2012.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpenseswere$612millioninthe

fourthquarterof2012,comparedwith$706millioninthecorrespondingquarterof2011.Thehigher

operatingexpensesinthefinalquarterof2011reflectthepreviouslynoted$79millionimpairmentcharge

relatedtoBLGandthe$30millioncharitablecontribution.TheCompany™sefficiencyratioduringthe

fourthquarterof2012and2011was53.6%and67.4%,respectively.Table25includesareconciliationof

otherexpensetononinterestoperatingexpenseandthecalculationoftheefficiencyratioforeachofthe

quartersof2012and2011.
SegmentInformation
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompany™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponits

internalprofitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategic

businessunitshavebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureofthe

productsandservices,thetypeofcustomer,andthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.

ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,

DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentswascompiledutilizingtheaccountingpolicies
describedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocesses

utilizedincompilingsegmentfinancialinformationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,

arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidancesimilartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentsandthefinancial

informationofthereportedsegmentsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilarinformationreportedby

otherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureorallocationmethodologies

andproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.Financialinformationaboutthe

Company™ssegmentsispresentedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofservicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionals
withinmarketsservedbytheCompanythroughtheCompany™sbranchnetwork,businessbankingcenters

andotherdeliverychannelssuchastelephonebanking,Internetbankingandautomatedtellermachines.

Servicesandproductsofferedbythissegmentincludevariousbusinessloansandleases,includingloans

guaranteedbytheSmallBusinessAdministration,businesscreditcards,depositproducts,andfinancial

servicessuchascashmanagement,payrollanddirectdeposit,merchantcreditcardandlettersofcredit.Net

incomefortheBusinessBankingsegmentimproved20%to$147millionin2012from$123millionin2011.

Thatincreasereflectsa$23milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,highernetinterestincomeof

$12millionandincreasedmerchantdiscountandcreditcardrevenuesof$5million.Thehighernetinterest

incomereflectsa$1.0billionincreaseinaverageoutstandingdepositbalances(predominantlynoninterest-

bearing),offset,inpart,bya9basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.Netincome

contributedbytheBusinessBankingsegmenttotaled$99millionin2010.The24%increaseinnetincome

in2011ascomparedwith2010reflectsa$29milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlossesandhighernet

interestincomeof$19millionthatresultedfromincreasesof$1.1billionand$358millionintheaverage

balancesofdepositsandloans,respectively,reflectingtheimpactoftheMay2011WilmingtonTrust

acquisition.Theeffectofthosehigheraveragebalanceswasoffset,inpart,bya39basispointnarrowingof

thenetinterestmarginondeposits.
TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsandbankingservicesfor
middle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsservedbytheCompany.

Servicesprovidedbythissegmentincludecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersofcredit,deposit

products,andcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialBankingsegmentearned$431millionin2012,
92up17%from$369millionin2011.Theimprovedperformancereflectsa$98millionriseinnetinterest
income,largelyduetohigheraverageloananddepositbalancesof$2.3billionand$1.2billion,respectively,

anda$14milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses.In2010,netincomefortheCommercialBanking

segmentwas$314million.The18%increaseinnetincomein2011ascomparedwith2010reflectsa

$73millionriseinnetinterestincomelargelyduetohigheraverageoutstandingloananddepositbalances

of$2.2billionand$1.7billion,respectively,(includingtheimpactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition)

partiallyoffsetbya19basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondepositbalances.Also

contributingtotheimprovementwerean$18milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlossesandhigher

credit-relatedfeesof$15million,includingfeesearnedforprovidingloansyndicationservices.Partially

offsettingthosefavorablefactorswereincreasedpersonnelcostsof$8millionandhigherFDICassessments

of$6million.
TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovidescreditanddepositservicestoitscustomers.Realestate
securingloansinthissegmentisgenerallylocatedintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanarea,upstateNewYork,

Pennsylvania,Maryland,theDistrictofColumbia,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andthenorthwestern

portionoftheUnitedStates.Commercialrealestateloa
nsmaybesecuredbyapartment/multifamilybuildings;
office,retailandindustrialspace;orothertypesofcollateral.Activitiesofthissegmentalsoincludethe

origination,salesandservicingofcommercialrealestateloansthroughtheFannieMaeDUSprogramand

otherprograms.NetincomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegmentaggregated$309millionin2012,up29%

from$240millionin2011.Factorscontributingtothehighernetincomeinclude:a$64millionriseinnet

interestincomeresultingprimarilyfromthegrowthof
averageloananddepositbalancesof$1.4billionand
$486million,respectively,anda9basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans;a$54million

reductionintheprovisionforcreditlosses;anda$22millionincreaseinmortgagebankingrevenues.Those

favorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,byincreasedFDICassessments,personnelcostsandotheroperating

expenses.NetincomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegmentin2011increased18%from$203millionin

2010.Thatimprovementreflectshighernetinterestincomeof$84million,duetoincreasesof$1.8billionand

$488millionofaverageoutstandingloananddepositbalances,respectively,(includingtheimpactofthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition)anda22basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans,aswellasa

$16milliondeclineinnetforeclosedrealestate-relatedexpenses.Partiallyoffsettingthosefavorablefactors

werehigherFDICassessmentsof$23million,a$13millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,and

increasedpersonnelcostsof$8million.
TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludesinvestmentandtradingsecurities,residentialmortgage
loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdepositand

interestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsofficedeposits.Thissegmentalso

providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.IncludedintheassetsoftheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segmentaremostoftheinvestmentsecuritiesforwhichtheCompanyhasrecognizedother-than-temporary

impairmentchargesineachofthelastthreeyearsandtheportfolioofAlt-Amortgageloans.The

DiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincurrednetlossesof$33millionin2012and$39millionin2010,

comparedwithnetincomeof$59millionin2011.Themostsignificantcontributortothefavorable

performancein2011wastheimpactof$149millionofnetrealizedgainsonthesaleofinvestmentsecurities

recordedin2011,predominantlycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbyFannie

MaeandFreddieMac,CDOsandtrustpreferredsecurities.Alsoreflectedinsecuritiesgainsorlosseswere

other-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges,predominantlyrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOs,of$48million

in2012,$77millionin2011and$74millionin2010.Excludingsecuritiesgainsandlosses,thissegment

incurredanetlossof$5millionin2012,comparedwithnetincomeof$16millionin2011and$5millionin

2010.Theunfavorableperformancein2012ascomparedwith2011reflectsa$48millionrisein

intersegmentcostsrelatedtoahigherproportionofresidentialrealestateloansbeingretainedforportfolio

ratherthanbeingsold,offset,inpart,bya$15milliondecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses.The

favorableperformancein2011ascomparedwith2010canbeattributedtoa$40millionriseinnetinterest

income,mainlyduetoa39basispointexpansionofthenetinterestmarginoninvestmentsecurities,offset,

inpart,bya$12millionincreaseinintersegmentcostsrelatedtoahigherproportionofresidentialreal

estateloansbeingretainedforportfolioin2011ratherthanbeingsold.
TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialmortgageloansand
sellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segment.Thissegmenthadalsooriginatedandservicedloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestate

properties,althoughthatoriginationactivityhasbeensignificantlycurtailed.Inadditiontothegeographic

regionsservedbyorcontiguouswiththeCompany™sbranchnetwork,theCompanymaintainsmortgage
93loanoriginationofficesinseveralstatesthroughoutthewesternUnitedStates.TheCompanyalso
periodicallypurchasestherightstoservicemortgageloans.Residentialmortgageloansheldforsaleare

includedinthissegment.TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentrecordednetincomeof$135million

in2012,upsignificantlyfrom$13millionin2011.Thatimprovementwasprimarilyduetoa$177million

increaseinrevenuesfromresidentialmortgageoriginationandsalesactivities(includingintersegment

revenues),duetohigheroriginationvolumesandwidermarginsonloansoriginatedforsale,anda

$25millionriseinrevenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloans.Alsocontributingtotheincreasein

netincomewerea$19milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlossesanda$14millionriseinnetinterest

income,theresultofanincreaseinaverageloanbalancesof$445million.Thosepositivefactorswereoffset,

inpart,byanincreaseinpersonnelcostsof$23million.Netincomeforthissegmenttotaled$11millionin

2010.The18%improvementin2011™sresultsascomparedwith2010wasattributabletoa$13million

declineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,partiallyoffsetbyan$8milliondeclineinnetinterestincome,the

resultofa$181milliondecreaseinaverageloanbalances.
TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldelivery
channelswhichincludebranchoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.

TheCompanyhasbranchofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,theDistrictof

Columbia,WestVirginia,andDelaware.TheRetailBankingsegmentalsoofferedcertaindepositproducts

onanationwidebasisthroughthedeliverychannelsofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Creditservicesofferedby

thissegmentincludeconsumerinstallmentloans,automobileloans(originatedbothdirectlyandindirectly

throughdealers),homeequityloansandlinesofcreditandcreditcards.Thesegmentalsoofferstoits

customersdepositproducts,includingdemand,savingsandtimeaccounts;investmentproducts,including

mutualfundsandannuities;andotherservices.TheRetailBankingsegment™snetincomerose10%to

$221millionin2012from$200millionin2011.Contributingtothecurrentyear™sfavorableperformance

werea$52millionincreaseinnetinterestincome,duelargelytoa$1.8billionincreaseinaverage

outstandingdepositbalancesandan8basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginondeposits;a

$6milliondecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses;anda$5millionriseinmerchantdiscountandcredit

cardrevenues.Thosefavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,bya$24milliondecreaseinfeesearnedfor

providingdepositaccountservicesanda$6millionincreaseinotheroperatingexpenses.Netincomefor

thissegmentdeclined11%in2011from$225millionin2010.Themostsignificantfactorscontributingto

thedeclinewerelowerfeesearnedforprovidingdepositaccountservicesof$25million(reflectingthe

previouslydescribedregulatorychangesin2010and2011offset,inpart,byfeesof$13millionfromdeposits

associatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisition),higherpersonnel-relatedcostsof$20million(also

reflectingtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition),andincreasedothernoninterestexpensestotaling$15million

(includinghighercreditcard,merchantandtransactionprocessing-relatedcosts,eachdue,inpart,tothe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition),partiallyoffsetbynetinterestincomerelatedtotheWilmingtonTrust

acquisition.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryreflectsotheractivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributableto
thereportedsegments.Reflectedinthiscategoryaretheamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assetsresultingfromtheacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions,M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLG,

merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitionsandthenetimpactoftheCompany™s

allocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearning

assetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcredit

losses.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryalsoincludestheICSandWASactivitiesobtainedintheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrustonMay16,2011andthepre-acquisitiontrustactivitiesoftheCompany.Revenuesfor

ICS,WASandthetrustactivitiesnotWilmingtonTrust-relatedwere$193million,$153millionand

$126million,respectively,fortheyearendedDecember31,2012and$119million,$87millionand

$116million,respectively,fortheyearendedDecember31,2011.Individuallyandcombinedthenetincome

ofthoseactivitiesdidnotexceed10%oftheCompany™snetincome.ThevariouscomponentsoftheﬁAll

Otherﬂcategoryresultedinnetlossesof$181million,$145millionand$78millionin2012,2011and2010,

respectively.Themostsignificantcontributorstothehighernetlossin2012ascomparedwith2011were:

higherpersonnel-relatedexpensesandprofessionalservicescostsof$84millionand$57million,

respectively(due,inpart,tothefull-yearimpactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition);theimpacton2011™s

resultsofthe$65millionnon-taxablegainontheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionandthe$55millionof

incomefromtheCDOlitigationsettlement;andtheimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologies

forinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.Partiallyoffsettingthose
94factorswere:increasesintrustrevenueof$139million(reflectingthefull-yearimpactoftheacquisitionof
WilmingtonTrust);the$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%

investmentinBLGandcashcontributionsmadetoTheM&TCharitableFoundation,eachofwhichwas

recordedin2011;andmerger-relatedexpensesof$10millionin2012,comparedwith$84millionin2011.

Inadditiontotheitemsrecordedin2011notedabove,contributingtotheunfavorableperformancein2011

ascomparedwith2010were:a$150millionriseinpersonnelcosts($148millionrelatedtotheWilmington

Trustacquisition);increasedequipmentandnetoccupancyexpensesof$25million(predominantlyrelated

totheWilmingtonTrustacquisition);andtheunfavorableimpactfromtheCompany™sallocation

methodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsand

interest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.Those

unfavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,byhighertrustrevenuesof$210million(reflectingtheWilmington

Trustacquisition),thepreviouslymentioned$65millionnon-taxablegainontheWilmingtonTrust

acquisitionandthe$55millionCDOlitigationsettlementreceivedandrecordedin2011.
RecentAccountingDevelopments
InOctober2012,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)issuedamendedaccountingguidance

relatingtosubsequentaccountingforanindemnificationassetrecognizedattheacquisitiondateasaresult

ofagovernment-assistedacquisitionofafinancialinstitution.Theamendmentclarifiestheexisting

subsequentmeasurementguidanceforindemnificationassetsrecognizedasaresultofagovernment-

assistedacquisitionofafinancialinstitutionthatincludesaloss-sharingagreement.Specifically,whenan

entityrecognizesanindemnificationassetasaresultofagovernment-assistedacquisitionofafinancial

institutionandsubsequentlyachangeinthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheindemnificationasset

occurs(asaresultofachangeincashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheassetssubjectto

indemnification),theentityshouldaccountforthechangeinthemeasurementoftheindemnificationasset

onthesamebasisasthechangeintheassetssubjecttoindemnification.Anyamortizationofchangesin

valuewouldbelimitedtothelesserofthecontractualtermoftheindemnificationagreementandthe

remaininglifeoftheindemnifiedassets.Theguidanceiseffectiveforfiscalyears,andinterimperiodswithin

thoseyears,beginningonorafterDecember15,2012.Theguidanceshouldbeappliedprospectivelytoany

newindemnificationassetsrecognizedafterthedateofadoptionandtoindemnificationassetsexistingasof

thedateofadoption.TheCompanydoesnotexpecttheguidancetohaveamaterialimpactonitsfinancial

positionorresultsofoperations.
InJuly2012,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotestingindefinite-lived
intangibleassetsforimpairment.Theamendmentsaresimilartotheaccountingguidanceprovidedin

September2011relatingtothetestingofgoodwillforimpairment.Theamendmentsprovidetheoptionto

firstassessqualitativefactorstodeterminewhethertheexistenceofeventsorcircumstancesleadstoa

determinationthatitismorelikelythannotthattheindefinite-livedintangibleassetisimpaired.If,after

assessingthetotalityofeventsandcircumstances,anentitydeterminesitisnotmorelikelythannotthatthe

indefinite-livedintangibleassetisimpaired,thentheentityisnotrequiredtotakefurtheraction.However,

ifanentityconcludesotherwise,thenitisrequiredtodeterminethefairvalueoftheindefinite-lived

intangibleassetandperformthequantitativeimpairmenttestbycomparingthefairvaluewiththecarrying

amount.Theoptionalguidanceiseffectiveforannualandinterimimpairmenttestsperformedforfiscal

yearsbeginningafterSeptember15,2012,withearlyadoptionpermitted.TheCompanydoesnotexpectthe

guidancetohaveamaterialimpactonitsfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
InDecember2011,theFASBissuedamendeddisclosureguidancerelatingtooffsettingassetsand
liabilities.Theamendmentsrequiredisclosureofgrossandnetinformationaboutinstrumentsand

transactionseligibleforoffsetinthestatementoffinancialpositionandinstrumentsandtransactions

subjecttoanagreementsimilartoamasternettingarrangement.Thescopeofthisguidanceincludes

derivatives,saleandrepurchaseagreementsandreversesaleandrepurchaseagreements,andsecurities

borrowingandsecuritieslendingarrangements.Theguidanceiseffectiveforannualreportingperiods

beginningonorafterJanuary1,2013,andinterimperiodswithinthoseannualperiods.Thenewrequired

disclosuresshouldbeappliedretrospectivelyforallcomparableperiodspresented.TheCompanyintendsto

complywiththenewdisclosureguidance.
InSeptember2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotestinggoodwillfor
impairment.Theamendmentsprovidetheoptiontofirstassessqualitativefactorstodeterminewhetherthe

existenceofeventsorcircumstancesleadstoadeterminationthatitismorelikelythannotthatthefair

valueofareportingunitislessthanitscarryingamount.If,afterassessingthetotalityofeventsor
95circumstances,anentitydeterminesitisnotmorelikelythannotthatthefairvalueofareportingunitisless
thanitscarryingamount,thenperformingthetwo-stepimpairmenttestisunnecessary.Theoptional

guidancewasabletobeappliedforannualandinterimgoodwillimpairmenttestsperformedforfiscalyears

beginningafterDecember15,2011,withearlyadoptionpermitted.TheCompanydidnotrecognizeany

impairmentofgoodwillin2012or2011.
InJune2011,theFASBissuedamendedpresentationguidancerelatingtocomprehensiveincome.
Theamendmentseliminatetheoptiontopresentthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincomeaspartof

thestatementofchangesinshareholders™equityandnowrequirethepresentationoftotalcomprehensive

income,thecomponentsofnetincome,andthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincomeeitherina

singlecontinuousstatementofcomprehensiveincomeorintwoseparatebutconsecutivestatements.In

bothoptions,anentityisrequiredtopresenteachcomponentofnetincomealongwithtotalnetincome,

eachcomponentofothercomprehensiveincomealongwithatotalforothercomprehensiveincome,anda

totalamountforcomprehensiveincome.Thepresentationguidancewaseffectiveforfiscalyears,and

interimperiodswithinthoseyears,beginningafterDecember15,2011andwastobeappliedretrospectively.

TheCompanyhascompliedwiththenewpresentationguidanceusingseparatebutconsecutivestatements.

InFebruary2013,theFASBagainamendedpresentationguidancerelatingtocomprehensiveincometo

requiredisclosuresofsignificantamountsreclassifiedoutofaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby

componentforreportingperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2012.TheCompanyintendstocomplywith

thenewdisclosurerequirementswhentheybecomeeffectivein2013.
InMay2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidancerelatingtofairvalue
measurements.TheamendmentsweretheresultoftheFASBandtheInternationalAccountingStandards

Boarddevelopingcommonrequirementsformeasuringfairvalueandfordisclosinginformationaboutfair

valuemeasurements.Theamendmentschangethewordingusedtodescribeseveraloftherequirementsfor

measuringfairvalueandfordisclosinginformationaboutfairvaluemeasurements,butgenerallydonot

resultinachangeintheapplicationoftheexistingguidance.Theguidancewaseffectiveforinterimand

annualperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2011andwastobeappliedprospectively.TheCompanyhas

compliedwiththeamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidance.Theadoptionofthisguidancedidnot

haveasignificantimpactonanyoftheCompany™sfairvaluemeasurements.Thedisclosuresrelatingtofair

valuemeasurementscanbefoundinnote20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
InApril2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotheassessmentofeffective
controlforrepurchaseagreements.Theamendmentsremovefromtheassessmentofeffectivecontrolthe

criterionrequiringthetransferortohavetheabilitytorepurchaseorredeemthefinancialassetson

substantiallytheagreedterms,evenintheeventofdefaultbythetransferee.Theamendmentsalsoremovethe

collateralmaintenanceimplementationguidancerelatedtothatcriterion.Theguidancewaseffectiveforthe

firstinterimorannualperiodbeginningonorafterDecember15,2011andwastobeappliedprospectivelyto

transactionsormodificationsofexistingtransactionsthatoccuronoraftertheeffectivedate.Theadoptionof

thisguidancedidnothaveasignificanteffectontheCompany™sfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
Forward-LookingStatements
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsandothersections

ofthisAnnualReportcontainforward-lookingstatementsthatarebasedoncurrentexpectations,estimates

andprojectionsabouttheCompany™sbusiness,management™sbeliefsandassumptionsmadeby

management.Forward-lookingstatementsaretypicallyidentifiedbywordssuchasﬁbelieve,ﬂﬁexpect,ﬂ

ﬁanticipate,ﬂﬁintend,ﬂﬁtarget,ﬂﬁestimate,ﬂﬁcontinue,ﬂﬁpositions,ﬂﬁprospectsﬂorﬁpotential,ﬂbyfuture

conditionalverbssuchasﬁwill,ﬂﬁwould,ﬂﬁshould,ﬂﬁcould,ﬂorﬁmay,ﬂorbyvariationsofsuchwordsorby

similarexpressions.Thesestatementsarenotguaranteesoffutureperformanceandinvolvecertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptions(ﬁFutureFactorsﬂ)whicharedifficulttopredict.Therefore,actualoutcomes

andresultsmaydiffermateriallyfromwhatisexpressedorforecastedinsuchforward-lookingstatements.

Forward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandtheCompanyassumesnodutyto

updateforward-lookingstatements.
FutureFactorsincludechangesininterestrates,spreadsonearningassetsandinterest-bearing
liabilities,andinterestratesensitivity;prepaymentspeeds,loanoriginations,creditlossesandmarketvalues

ofloans,collateralsecuringloansandotherassets;sourcesofliquidity;commonsharesoutstanding;

commonstockpricevolatility;fairvalueofandnumberofstock-basedcompensationawardstobeissuedin

futureperiods;theimpactofchangesinmarketvaluesontrust-relatedrevenues;legislationand/or

regulationaffectingthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andM&Tanditssubsidiariesindividuallyor
96collectively,includingtaxlegislationorregulation;regulatorysupervisionandoversight,includingmonetary
policyandcapitalrequirements;changesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorotherregulatoryagencies;increasingpriceandproduct/servicecompetitionbycompetitors,

includingnewentrants;rapidtechnologicaldevelopmentsandchanges;theabilitytocontinuetointroduce

competitivenewproductsandservicesonatimely,cost-effectivebasis;themixofproducts/services;

containingcostsandexpenses;governmentalandpublicpolicychanges;protectionandvalidityof

intellectualpropertyrights;relianceonlargecustomers;technological,implementationandcost/financial

risksinlarge,multi-yearcontracts;theoutcomeofpendingandfuturelitigationandgovernmental

proceedings,includingtax-relatedexaminationsandothermatters;continuedavailabilityoffinancing;

financialresourcesintheamounts,atthetimesandonthetermsrequiredtosupportM&Tandits

subsidiaries™futurebusinesses;andmaterialdifferencesintheactualfinancialresultsofmerger,acquisition

andinvestmentactivitiescomparedwithM&T™sinitialexpectations,includingthefullrealizationof

anticipatedcostsavingsandrevenueenhancements.
ThesearerepresentativeoftheFutureFactorsthatcouldaffecttheoutcomeoftheforward-looking
statements.Inaddition,suchstatementscouldbeaffectedbygeneralindustryandmarketconditionsand

growthrates,generaleconomicandpoliticalconditions,eithernationallyorinthestatesinwhichM&Tand

itssubsidiariesdobusiness,includinginterestrateandcurrencyexchangeratefluctuations,changesand

trendsinthesecuritiesmarkets,andotherFutureFactors.
97Table24
QUARTERLYTRENDS
2012Quarters
2011Quarters
EarningsanddividendsFourth
ThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstAmountsinthousands,exceptpershare
Interestincome(taxable-equivalentbasis)
..............................$751,860$751,385$744,031$720,800$722,535$726,897$694,721$673,810
Interestexpense
...................................................77,93182,12989,40393,70697,969103,632102,05198,679
Netinterestincome
................................................673,929669,256654,628627,094624,566623,265592,670575,131
Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.......................................49,00046,00060,00049,00074,00058,00063,00075,000
Otherincome
.....................................................453,164445,733391,650376,723398,454368,382501,656314,420
Less:otherexpense
.................................................626,146616,027627,392639,695739,583662,019576,895499,571
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.........................................451,947452,962358,886315,122209,437271,628454,431314,980
Applicableincometaxes
............................................149,247152,966118,861101,95455,16281,974125,605102,380
Taxable-equivalentadjustment
.......................................6,5076,5346,6456,7056,5356,5466,4686,327
Netincome
.......................................................$296,193$293,462$233,380$206,463$147,740$183,108$322,358$206,273
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders-diluted
....................$276,605$273,896$214,716$188,241$129,804$164,671$297,179$190,121
Percommonsharedata
Basicearnings
...................................................$
2.18$2.18$1.71$1.50$1.04$1.32$2.43$1.59
Dilutedearnings
.................................................2.162.171.711.501.041.322.421.59
Cashdividends
..................................................$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70
Averagecommonsharesoutstanding
Basic..........................................................126,918125,819125,488125,220124,615124,575122,181119,201
Diluted........................................................127,800126,292125,897125,616124,736124,860122,796119,852
Performanceratios,annualized

Returnon
Averageassets
...................................................1.45%1.45%1.17%1.06%.75%.94%1.78%1.23%
Averagecommonshareholders™equity
...............................12.10%12.40%10.12%9.04%6.12%7.84%14.94%10.16%
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets(taxable-equivalentbasis)
......3.74%3.77%3.74%3.69%3.60%3.68%3.75%3.92%
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.........1.52%1.44%1.54%1.75%1.83%1.91%1.91%2.08%
Netoperating(tangible)results(a)

Netoperatingincome(inthousands)
..................................$304,657$302,060$247,433$218,360$168,410$209,996$289,487$216,360
Dilutednetoperatingincomepercommonshare
........................2.232.241.821.591.201.532.161.67
Annualizedreturnon
Averagetangibleassets
............................................1.56%1.56%1.30%1.18%.89%1.14%1.69%1.36%
Averagetangiblecommonshareholders™equity
........................20.46%21.53%18.54%16.79%12.36%16.07%24.24%20.16%
Efficiencyratio(b)
.................................................53.63%53.73%56.86%61.09%67.38%61.79%55.56%55.75%
Balancesheetdata

Inmillions,exceptpershare

Averagebalances
Totalassets(c)
..................................................$
81,366$80,432$80,087$78,026$78,393$76,908$72,454$68,045
Totaltangibleassets(c)
...........................................77,75576,81076,45574,38174,73773,23968,80664,423
Earningassets
...................................................71,67970,66270,45068,38868,77167,21563,38259,431
Investmentsecurities
.............................................6,2956,8117,2717,5077,6337,0056,3947,219
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
...........................65,01163,45561,82660,48459,07758,18855,46151,972
Deposits.......................................................64,26962,74361,53059,29159,99958,47354,45749,680
Commonshareholders™equity(c)
...................................9,2338,9198,6688,5108,5498,4628,0967,708
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
............................5,6225,2975,0364,8654,8934,7934,4484,086
Atendofquarter
Totalassets(c)
..................................................$
83,009$81,085$80,808$79,187$77,924$77,864$77,727$67,881
Totaltangibleassets(c)
...........................................79,40277,46977,18175,54874,27474,20174,05264,263
Earningassets
...................................................72,85971,22071,06569,49068,02767,92667,83758,822
Investmentsecurities
.............................................6,0746,6247,0577,1957,6737,1746,4926,507
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
...........................66,57164,11262,85160,92260,09658,40158,54152,119
Deposits.......................................................65,61164,00762,54960,91359,39559,48259,22950,548
Commonshareholders™equity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferred
dividends(c)..................................................9,3279,0718,7588,5598,4038,5098,3807,758
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
............................5,7205,4555,1314,9204,7534,8464,7054,140
Equitypercommonshare
.........................................72.7371.1769.1567.6466.8267.7066.7164.43
Tangibleequitypercommonshare
..................................44.6142.8040.5238.8937.7938.5637.4534.38
Marketpricepercommonshare
High..........................................................$
105.33$95.98$88.00$87.37$80.02$90.00$90.76$91.05
Low...........................................................
95.0282.2976.9276.8266.4066.4183.3184.63
Closing........................................................98.4795.1682.5786.8876.3469.9087.9588.47
(a)Excludesamortizationandbalancesrelatedtogoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsandmerger-relatedgainsandexpenseswhich
,exceptinthe
calculationoftheefficiencyratio,arenetofapplicableincometaxeffects.AreconciliationofnetincomeandnetoperatingincomeappearsinTabl
e25.
(b)Excludesimpactofmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesandnetsecuritiestransactions.

(c)Thedifferencebetweentotalassetsandtotaltangibleassets,andcommonshareholders™equityandtangiblecommonshareholders™equity,repre
sentsgoodwill,core
depositandotherintangibleassets,netofapplicabledeferredtaxbalances.AreconciliationofsuchbalancesappearsinTable25.
98Table25
RECONCILIATIONOFQUARTERLYGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
2012Quarters
2011Quarters
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstIncomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
..........................................$
296,193$293,462$233,380$206,463$147,740$183,108$322,358$206,273
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
....8,4648,5989,70910,24010,47610,6228,9747,478
Merger-relatedgain(a)
.................................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ(64,930)Š
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
.............................ŠŠ
4,3441,65710,19416,26623,0852,609
Netoperatingincome
...............................$
304,657$302,060$247,433$218,360$168,410$209,996$289,487$216,360
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
......................$
2.16$2.17$1.711.50$1.04$1.32$2.42$1.59
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
.....07.07.08.08.08.08.07.06
Merger-relatedgain(a)
.................................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ(.52)Š
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
.............................ŠŠ.03.01.08.13.19.02
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
.........$
2.23$2.24$1.82$1.59$1.20$1.53$2.16$1.67
Otherexpense
Otherexpense
........................................$
626,146$616,027$627,392$639,695$739,583$662,019$576,895$499,571
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
......(13,865)(14,085)(15,907)(16,774)(17,162)(17,401)(14,740)(12,314)
Merger-relatedexpenses
...............................ŠŠ
(7,151)(2,728)(16,393)(26,003)(36,996)(4,295)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
........................$
612,281$601,942$604,334$620,193$706,028$618,615$525,159$482,962
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits
...........................$Š$Š$
3,024$1,973$534$285$15,305$7
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
..........................ŠŠŠ151891192579
Printing,postageandsupplies
...........................ŠŠŠŠ1,475723318147
Othercostsofoperations
...............................ŠŠ
4,12774014,19524,87621,3484,062
Total.............................................$Š$Š$
7,151$2,728$16,393$26,003$36,996$4,295
Efficiencyratio
Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
................$
612,281$601,942$604,334$620,193$706,028$618,615$525,159$482,962
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
....................673,929669,256654,628627,094624,566623,265592,670575,131
Otherincome
........................................453,164445,733391,650376,723398,454368,382501,656314,420
Less:Gain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities
.............Š372
(408)45189110,74439,353
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
...............(14,491)(5,672)(16,173)(11,486)(24,822)(9,642)(26,530)(16,041)
Merger-relatedgain
...............................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ64,930Š
Denominator........................................$1,141,584$1,120,289$1,062,859$1,015,258$1,047,841$1,001,200$945,182$866,239
Efficiencyratio
.......................................53.63%53.73%56.86%61.09%67.38%61.79%55.56%55.75%
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
........................................$
81,366$80,432$80,087$78,026$78,393$76,908$72,454$68,045
Goodwill............................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................(122)(136)(151)(168)(185)(202)(165)(119)
Deferredtaxes
........................................3639444854584222
Averagetangibleassets
...............................$
77,755$76,810$76,455$74,381$74,737$73,239$68,806$64,423
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity
...................................$
10,105$9,789$9,536$9,376$9,413$9,324$8,812$8,451
Preferredstock
.......................................(872)(870)(868)(866)(864)(862)(716)(743)
Averagecommonequity
.............................9,2338,9198,6688,5108,5498,4628,0967,708
Goodwill............................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................(122)(136)(151)(168)(185)(202)(165)(119)
Deferredtaxes
........................................3639444854584222
Averagetangiblecommonequity
......................$
5,622$5,297$5,036$4,865$4,893$4,793$4,448$4,086
Atendofquarter
Totalassets

Totalassets
..........................................$
83,009$81,085$80,808$79,187$77,924$77,864$77,727$67,881
Goodwill............................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................(116)(129)(143)(160)(176)(193)(210)(113)
Deferredtaxes
........................................3438414651556020
Totaltangibleassets
.................................$
79,402$77,469$77,181$75,548$74,274$74,201$74,052$64,263
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity
.........................................$
10,203$9,945$9,630$9,429$9,271$9,375$9,244$8,508
Preferredstock
.......................................(873)(870)(868)(867)(865)(863)(861)(743)
Undeclareddividends-cumulativepreferredstock
...........(3)(4)(4)(3)(3)(3)(3)(7)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferred
dividends.......................................9,3279,0718,7588,5598,4038,5098,3807,758
Goodwill............................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................(116)(129)(143)(160)(176)(193)(210)(113)
Deferredtaxes
........................................3438414651556020
Totaltangiblecommonequity
...........................$
5,720$5,455$5,131$4,920$4,753$4,846$4,705$4,140
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
99Item7A.
QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothediscussioncontainedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand
AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬂunderthecaptionsﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,and

InterestRateSensitivityﬂ(includingTable21)andﬁCapital.ﬂ
Item8.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataconsistofthefinancialstatementsasindexedandpresented
belowandTable24ﬁQuarterlyTrendsﬂpresentedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand

AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂ
IndextoFinancialStatementsandFinancialStatementSchedules
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
......................................101
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
..................................102
ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2012and2011
.................................103
ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2012,2011and2010
...........104
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2012,2011and
2010............................................................................105
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,2012,2011and2010
........106
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYearsendedDecember31,2012,
2011and2010
....................................................................107
NotestoFinancialStatements
..........................................................108-176100ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
Managementisresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingatM&TBankCorporationandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ).Managementhasassessedthe

effectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2012basedon

criteriadescribedinﬁInternalControlŠIntegratedFrameworkﬂissuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoring

OrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission.Basedonthatassessment,managementconcludedthatthe

CompanymaintainedeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2012.
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsoftheCompanyhavebeenauditedby
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirm,thatwasengagedto

expressanopinionastothefairnessofpresentationofsuchfinancialstatements.PricewaterhouseCoopers

LLPwasalsoengagedtoassesstheeffectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.

ThereportofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPfollowsthisreport.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
ROBERTG.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer
RENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer
101ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheBoardofDirectorsandShareholdersof
M&TBankCorporation
Inouropinion,theconsolidatedfinancialstatementslistedintheaccompanyingindexpresentfairly,inall
materialrespects,thefinancialpositionofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiaries(theﬁCompanyﬂ)at

December31,2012and2011,andtheresultsofitsoperationsanditscashflowsforeachofthethreeyearsin

theperiodendedDecember31,2012inconformitywithaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedinthe

UnitedStatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inallmaterialrespects,effective

internalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2012,basedoncriteriaestablishedin
InternalControlŠIntegratedFramework
issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadway
Commission(COSO).TheCompany™smanagementisresponsibleforthesefinancialstatements,for

maintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforitsassessmentoftheeffectivenessof

internalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanyingReportonInternalControlOver

FinancialReporting.Ourresponsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthesefinancialstatementsandonthe

Company™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonourintegratedaudits.Weconductedour

auditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOversightBoard(United

States).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanandperformtheauditstoobtainreasonableassuranceabout

whetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatementandwhethereffectiveinternalcontrol

overfinancialreportingwasmaintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthefinancialstatements

includedexamining,onatestbasis,evidencesupportingtheamountsanddisclosuresinthefinancial

statements,assessingtheaccountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmadebymanagement,and

evaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresentation.Ourauditofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting

includedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,assessingtheriskthata

materialweaknessexists,andtestingandevaluatingthedesignandoperatingeffectivenessofinternal

controlbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedperformingsuchotherproceduresaswe

considerednecessaryinthecircumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonablebasisforour

opinions.Acompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassurance
regardingthereliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternal

purposesinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany™sinternalcontrolover

financialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecords

that,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthe

company;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermit

preparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples,andthat

receiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsof

managementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionor

timelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany™sassetsthatcouldhavea

materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetect
misstatements.Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisk

thatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliance

withthepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
Buffalo,NewYork

February22,2013
102M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
(Dollarsinthousands,exceptpershare)December31
20122011AssetsCashandduefrombanks
...............................................$
1,983,615$1,449,547
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
........................................129,945154,960
Federalfundssold
.....................................................3,0002,850
Tradingaccount
......................................................488,966561,834
Investmentsecurities(includespledgedsecuritiesthatcanbesoldorrepledgedof
$1,801,842atDecember31,2012;$1,826,011atDecember31,2011)
Availableforsale(cost:$4,643,070atDecember31,2012;$6,312,423at
December31,2011)
...............................................4,739,4376,228,560
Heldtomaturity(fairvalue:$976,883atDecember31,2012;$1,012,562at
December31,2011)
...............................................1,032,2761,077,708
Other(fairvalue:$302,648atDecember31,2012;$366,886atDecember31,
2011)...........................................................302,648366,886
Totalinvestmentsecurities
..........................................6,074,3617,673,154
Loansandleases
......................................................66,790,18660,377,875
Unearneddiscount
..................................................(219,229)(281,870)
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.............................66,570,95760,096,005
Allowanceforcreditlosses
............................................(925,860)(908,290)
Loansandleases,net
...............................................65,645,09759,187,715
Premisesandequipment
................................................594,652581,435
Goodwill............................................................3,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................................115,763176,394
Accruedinterestandotherassets
.........................................4,448,7794,611,773
Totalassets
......................................................$83,008,803$77,924,287
LiabilitiesNoninterest-bearingdeposits
............................................$24,240,802$20,017,883
NOWaccounts
.......................................................1,979,6191,912,226
Savingsdeposits
.......................................................33,783,94731,001,083
Timedeposits
........................................................4,562,3666,107,530
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
........................................1,044,519355,927
Totaldeposits
....................................................65,611,25359,394,649
Federalfundspurchasedandagreementstorepurchasesecurities
...............1,074,482732,059
Othershort-termborrowings
............................................Š
50,023Accruedinterestandotherliabilities
......................................1,512,7171,790,121
Long-termborrowings
.................................................4,607,7586,686,226
Totalliabilities
....................................................72,806,21068,653,078
Shareholders™equity
Preferredstock,$1.00par,1,000,000sharesauthorized;Issuedandoutstanding:
Liquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare:381,500sharesatDecember31,2012

andDecember31,2011;Liquidationpreferenceof$10,000pershare:50,000

sharesatDecember31,2012andDecember31,2011
.......................872,500864,585
Commonstock,$.50par,250,000,000sharesauthorized,128,176,912sharesissued
atDecember31,2012;125,683,398sharesissuedatDecember31,2011
........64,08862,842
Commonstockissuable,57,409sharesatDecember31,2012;68,220sharesat
December31,2011.
.................................................3,4734,072
Additionalpaid-incapital
...............................................3,025,5202,828,986
Retainedearnings
.....................................................6,477,2765,867,165
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net
........................(240,264)(356,441)
Totalshareholders™equity
...........................................10,202,5939,271,209
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...............................$83,008,803$77,924,287
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
103M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)YearEndedDecember31
201220112010Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
........................................$2,704,156$2,522,567$2,394,082
Depositsatbanks
...................................................1,2212,93488
Federalfundssold
...................................................215742
Agreementstoresellsecurities
.........................................Š132404
Tradingaccount
....................................................1,1261,198615
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
.....................................................227,116256,057324,695
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
..........................................8,0459,1429,869
Totalinterestincome
............................................2,941,6852,792,0872,729,795
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
.....................................................1,3431,145850
Savingsdeposits
....................................................68,01184,31485,226
Timedeposits
......................................................46,10271,014100,241
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......................................1,1309621,368
Short-termborrowings
...............................................1,2861,0303,006
Long-termborrowings
...............................................225,297243,866271,578
Totalinterestexpense
............................................343,169402,331462,269
Netinterestincome
..................................................2,598,5162,389,7562,267,526
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............................................204,000270,000368,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses
........................2,394,5162,119,7561,899,526
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
...........................................349,064166,021184,625
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
....................................446,698455,095478,133
Trustincome
.......................................................471,852332,385122,613
Brokerageservicesincome
............................................59,05956,47049,669
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
..............................35,63427,22427,286
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.....................................9
150,1872,770
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)losses
...................(32,067)(72,915)(115,947)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(before
taxes)...........................................................(15,755)(4,120)29,666
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
...............................(47,822)(77,035)(86,281)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
........................(21,511)(24,231)(25,768)
Otherrevenuesfromoperations
.......................................374,287496,796355,053
Totalotherincome
..............................................1,667,2701,582,9121,108,100
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.........................................1,314,5401,203,993999,709
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................257,551249,514216,064
Printing,postageandsupplies
.........................................41,92940,91733,847
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
....................60,63161,61758,103
FDICassessments
...................................................101,110100,23079,324
Othercostsofoperations
.............................................733,499821,797527,790
Totalotherexpense
.............................................2,509,2602,478,0681,914,837
Incomebeforetaxes
.................................................1,552,5261,224,6001,092,789
Incometaxes
.........................................................523,028365,121356,628
Netincome
.........................................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
Basic.............................................................$
953,390$781,743$675,826
Diluted...........................................................953,429781,765675,853
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic.............................................................$
7.57$6.37$5.72
Diluted...........................................................7.546.355.69
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
104M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncome
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010Netincome
...............................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
.................114,8256,687134,904
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminated
cashflowhedges
.......................................(112)(281)(281)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
.....................519
(803)Š
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
....................945
(156,824)(3,846)
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
........................116,177(151,221)130,777
Totalcomprehensiveincome
............................$1,145,675$708,258$866,938
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
105M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
................................................................................$
1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
Provisionforcreditlosses
..................................................................204,000270,000368,000
Depreciationandamortizationofpremisesandequipment
........................................84,37580,30467,677
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
....................................................59,55555,85956,582
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
..........................................60,63161,61758,103
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
..........................................................131,85833,92451,068
Assetwrite-downs
........................................................................63,790170,632101,106
Netgainonsalesofassets
...................................................................(6,868)(187,120)(10,426)
Netchangeinaccruedinterestreceivable,payable..
.............................................(13,898)(27,508)(9,942)
Netchangeinotheraccruedincomeandexpense...
.............................................(200,704)147,465144,705
Netchangeinloansoriginatedforsale
........................................................(924,839)238,156202,089
Netchangeintradingaccountassetsandliabilities..
.............................................12,58369,438(89,476)
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
......................................................499,9811,772,2461,675,647
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
..........................................................................49,5281,909,82923,310
Other..................................................................................78,071116,410107,320
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
..........................................................................1,585,2601,307,5671,539,591
Heldtomaturity
..........................................................................329,279272,841248,087
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
..........................................................................(28,161)(3,491,759)(440,560)
Heldtomaturity
..........................................................................(285,125)(28,454)(1,003,796)
Other..................................................................................(13,833)(30,727)(7,647)
Netdecreaseinagreementstoresellsecurities
....................................................Š
15,000Š
Netincreaseinloansandleases
................................................................(5,672,747)(2,233,600)(201,854)
Netdecreaseininterest-bearingdepositsatbanks
.................................................25,0152,552,52732,113
Otherinvestments,net
.......................................................................(18,224)(29,306)(52,179)
Capitalexpenditures,net
.....................................................................(91,519)(70,008)(70,458)
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired
Banksandbankholdingcompanies
..........................................................Š
178,940213,204
PurchaseofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
.........................................Š
(330,000)Š
Proceedsfromsalesofrealestateacquiredinsettlementofloans
.....................................102,208208,54689,206
Other,net
.................................................................................(120,610)21,126(927)
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities
.................................................(4,060,858)368,932475,410
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Netincreaseindeposits
......................................................................6,230,391742,6531,879,491
Netincrease(decrease)inshort-termborrowings
.................................................292,422(313,050)(1,522,646)
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
............................................................(2,080,167)(1,809,984)(2,514,342)
DividendspaidŠcommon
...................................................................(357,717)(350,129)(335,303)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
...................................................................(53,450)(48,203)(40,225)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
........................................................Š
495,000Š
Redemptionofpreferredstock
................................................................Š
(370,000)Š
Other,net
.................................................................................63,61631,17769,381
Netcashprovided(used)byfinancingactivities
.................................................4,095,095(1,622,536)(2,463,644)
Netincrease(decrease)incashandcashequivalents
.................................................534,218518,642(312,587)
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
......................................................1,452,397933,7551,246,342
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
...........................................................$
1,986,615$1,452,397$933,755
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
...............................................................$
2,931,409$2,807,071$2,765,101
Interestpaidduringtheyear
..................................................................371,887440,810490,767
Incometaxespaidduringtheyear
..............................................................405,598251,810287,740
Supplementalscheduleofnoncashinvestingandfinancingactivities
Realestateacquiredinsettlementofloans
.......................................................$
48,932$81,588$199,285
AcquisitionsFairvalueof
Assetsacquired(noncash)
................................................................Š
10,666,102342,443
Liabilitiesassumed
......................................................................Š
10,044,555528,108
Commonstockissued
...................................................................Š
405,557Š
Increase(decrease)fromconsolidationofsecuritizationtrusts
.......................................Loans..................................................................................ŠŠ
423,865InvestmentsecuritiesŠavailableforsale
......................................................ŠŠ
(360,471)Long-termborrowings
.....................................................................ŠŠ
65,419Accruedinterestandother
..................................................................ŠŠ
2,025Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
106M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™Equity
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
PreferredStockCommonStockCommonStockIssuableAdditionalPaid-inCapitalRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss),
NetTreasuryStockTotal2010BalanceŠJanuary1,2010
..................$
730,23560,1984,3422,442,9475,076,884(335,997)(225,702)7,752,907
Totalcomprehensiveincome
................ŠŠŠŠ
736,161130,777Š866,938
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(40,225)ŠŠ(40,225)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......10,422ŠŠŠ(10,422)ŠŠŠ
Repaymentofmanagementstockownership
programreceivable
......................ŠŠŠ
3,783ŠŠŠ3,783
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............ŠŠŠ
5,491ŠŠ43,08548,576
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............ŠŠŠ
(46,248)ŠŠ95,57449,326
Stockpurchaseplan
.....................ŠŠŠ
(8,482)ŠŠ17,4808,998
Directors™stockplan
.....................ŠŠŠ
(362)ŠŠ1,4791,117
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
...................ŠŠ
(153)(305)(195)Š639(14)
Other.................................ŠŠŠ
1,791ŠŠŠ1,791
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80per
share..................................ŠŠŠŠ
(335,502)ŠŠ(335,502)
BalanceŠDecember31,2010
...............$
740,65760,1984,1892,398,6155,426,701(205,220)(67,445)8,357,695
2011
Totalcomprehensiveincome
................ŠŠŠŠ
859,479(151,221)Š708,258
AcquisitionofWilmingtonTrustCorporationŒ
commonstockissued
....................Š
2,348Š403,209ŠŠŠ405,557
PartialredemptionofSeriesApreferredstock..(370,000)ŠŠŠŠŠŠ(370,000)

ConversionofSeriesBpreferredstockinto
433,144sharesofcommonstock
...........(26,500)192Š21,754ŠŠ4,554Š
IssuanceofSeriesDpreferredstock
...........500,000ŠŠ(5,000)ŠŠŠ495,000
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(48,203)ŠŠ(48,203)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......20,428ŠŠŠ(20,428)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............Š50Š
12,196ŠŠ31,66643,912
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............Š48Š
(4,300)ŠŠ30,10625,854
Directors™stockplan
.....................Š6Š813ŠŠ612
1,431Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
...................ŠŠ
(117)(164)(188)Š50738
Other.................................ŠŠŠ
1,863ŠŠŠ1,863
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80per
share..................................ŠŠŠŠ
(350,196)ŠŠ(350,196)
BalanceŠDecember31,2011
...............$
864,58562,8424,0722,828,9865,867,165(356,441)Š9,271,209
2012
Totalcomprehensiveincome
................ŠŠŠŠ
1,029,498116,177Š1,145,675
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(53,450)ŠŠ(53,450)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......7,915ŠŠŠ(7,915)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............Š229Š
47,937ŠŠŠ48,166
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............Š928Š
135,017ŠŠŠ135,945
Stockpurchaseplan
.....................Š75Š
10,042ŠŠŠ10,117
Directors™stockplan
.....................Š9Š
1,471ŠŠŠ1,480
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
...................Š5
(599)593(160)ŠŠ(161)
Other.................................ŠŠŠ
1,474ŠŠŠ1,474
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80per
share..................................ŠŠŠŠ
(357,862)ŠŠ(357,862)
BalanceŠDecember31,2012
...............$
872,50064,0883,4733,025,5206,477,276(240,264)Š10,202,593
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
107M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatements
1.Significantaccountingpolicies
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYork.
Throughsubsidiaries,M&Tprovidesindividuals,corporationsandotherbusinesses,andinstitutionswith

commercialandretailbankingservices,includingloansanddeposits,trust,mortgagebanking,asset

management,insuranceandotherfinancialservices.Bankingactivitiesarelargelyfocusedonconsumers

residinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,VirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbiaand

onsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas.BankingservicesarealsoprovidedinWest

VirginiaandNewJersey,whilecertainsubsidiariesalsoconductactivitiesinotherareas.
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofM&Tandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ)conformto
generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ)andtogeneralpracticeswithinthebankingindustry.

ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomakeestimates

andassumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureofcontingentassets

andliabilitiesatthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereportedamountsofrevenuesandexpenses

duringthereportingperiod.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates.Themoresignificant

accountingpoliciesareasfollows:
ConsolidationTheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludeM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries.Allsignificantintercompany

accountsandtransactionsofconsolidatedsubsidiarieshavebeeneliminatedinconsolidation.Thefinancial

statementsofM&Tincludedinnote25reportinvestmentsinsubsidiariesundertheequitymethod.

InformationaboutsomelimitedpurposeentitiesthatareaffiliatesoftheCompanybutarenotincludedin

theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsappearsinnote19.
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
Forpurposesofthisstatement,cashandduefrombanksandfederalfundssoldareconsideredcashand

cashequivalents.
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseare

treatedascollateralizedfinancingtransactionsandarerecordedatamountsequaltothecashorother

considerationexchanged.ItisgenerallytheCompany™spolicytotakepossessionofcollateralpledgedto

secureagreementstoresell.
Tradingaccount
Financialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesarestatedatfairvalue.Realizedgainsandlossesand

unrealizedchangesinfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesareincludedinﬁtrading

accountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Investmentsecurities
Investmentsindebtsecuritiesareclassifiedasheldtomaturityandstatedatamortizedcostwhen

managementhasthepositiveintentandabilitytoholdsuchsecuritiestomaturity.Investmentsinotherdebt

securitiesandequitysecuritieshavingreadilydeterminablefairvaluesareclassifiedasavailableforsaleand

statedatestimatedfairvalue.Amortizationofpremiumsandaccretionofdiscountsforinvestment

securitiesavailableforsaleandheldtomaturityareincludedininterestincome.Exceptforinvestment

securitiesforwhichtheCompanyhasenteredintoarelatedfairvaluehedge,unrealizedgainsorlosseson

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearereflectedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net

ofapplicableincometaxes.
OthersecuritiesarestatedatcostandincludestockoftheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandthe
FederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork.
Thecostbasisofindividualsecuritiesiswrittendownthroughachargetoearningswhendeclinesin
valuebelowamortizedcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Incaseswherefairvalueislessthan

amortizedcostandtheCompanyintendstoselladebtsecurity,itismorelikelythannottoberequiredto

selladebtsecuritybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,ortheCompanydoesnotexpecttorecover

theentireamortizedcostbasisofadebtsecurity,another-than-temporaryimpairmentisconsideredtohave
108occurred.IftheCompanyintendstosellthedebtsecurityormorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthe
securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisrecognizedin

earningsequaltotheentiredifferencebetweenthedebtsecurity™samortizedcostbasisanditsfairvalue.If

theCompanydoesnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofthesecurity,theCompanydoes

notintendtosellthesecurityanditisnotmorelikelythannotthattheCompanywillberequiredtosellthe

securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisseparatedinto

(a)theamountrepresentingthecreditlossand(b)theamountrelatedtoallotherfactors.Theamountof

theother-than-temporaryimpairmentrelatedtothecreditlossisrecognizedinearningswhiletheamount

relatedtootherfactorsisrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,netofapplicabletaxes.Subsequently,

theCompanyaccountsfortheother-than-temporarilyimpaireddebtsecurityasifthesecurityhadbeen

purchasedonthemeasurementdateoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentatanamortizedcostbasis

equaltothepreviousamortizedcostbasislesstheother-than-temporaryimpairmentrecognizedin

earnings.Thecostbasisofindividualequitysecuritiesiswrittendowntoestimatedfairvaluethrougha

chargetoearningswhendeclinesinvaluebelowcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Realized

gainsandlossesonthesalesofinvestmentsecuritiesaredeterminedusingthespecificidentification

method.Loansandleases
TheCompany™saccountingmethodsforloansdependsonwhethertheloanswereoriginatedbythe

Companyorwereacquiredinabusinesscombination.
Originatedloansandleases

Interestincomeonloansisaccruedonalevelyieldmethod.Loansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusand

previouslyaccruedinterestthereonischargedagainstincomewhenprincipalorinterestisdelinquent

90days,unlessmanagementdeterminesthattheloanstatusclearlywarrantsothertreatment.Nonaccrual

commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansarereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenborrowershave

demonstratedanabilitytorepaytheirloansandtherearenodelinquentprincipalandinterestpayments.

Consumerloansnotsecuredbyresidentialrealestatearereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenallpastdue

principalandinterestpaymentshavebeenpaidbytheborrower.Loanssecuredbyresidentialrealestateare

returnedtoaccrualstatuswhentheyaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentsof90daysor

less.Loanbalancesarechargedoffwhenitbecomesevidentthatsuchbalancesarenotfullycollectible.For

commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,charge-offsarerecognizedafteranassessmentbycredit

personnelofthecapacityandwillingnessoftheborrowertorepay,theestimatedvalueofanycollateral,and

anyotherpotentialsourcesofrepayment.Acharge-offisrecognizedwhen,aftersuchassessment,itbecomes

evidentthattheloanbalanceisnotfullycollectible.Forloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,theexcessof

theloanbalancesoverthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhenthe

loanbecomes150daysdelinquent.Consumerloansaregenerallycharged-offwhentheloansare91to180

dayspastdue,dependingonwhethertheloaniscollateralizedandthestatusofrepossessionactivitieswith

respecttosuchcollateral.Loanfeesandcertaindirectloanoriginationcostsaredeferredandrecognizedas

aninterestyieldadjustmentoverthelifeoftheloan.Netdeferredfeeshavebeenincludedinunearned

discountasareductionofloansoutstanding.Commitmentstosellrealestateloansareutilizedbythe

Companytohedgetheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalue

ofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsalerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetincludeschangesin

estimatedfairmarketvalueduringthehedgeperiod,typicallyfromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.

Valuationadjustmentsmadeontheseloansandcommitmentsareincludedinﬁmortgagebanking

revenues.ﬂExceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenous
loansandareevaluatedcollectively,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplying

GAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunableto

collectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent

90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubled

debtrestructuring.Impairedloansareclassifiedaseithernonaccrualorasloansrenegotiatedatbelow

marketrateswhichcontinuetoaccrueinterest,providedthatacreditassessmentoftheborrower™sfinancial

conditionresultsinanexpectationoffullrepaymentunderthemodifiedcontractualterms.Certainloans

greaterthan90daysdelinquentarenotconsideredimpairediftheyarebothwell-securedandintheprocess

ofcollection.Loanslessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentand
109aregenerallynotconsideredimpaired.Impairmentofaloanismeasuredbasedonthepresentvalueof
expectedfuturecashflowsdiscountedattheloan™seffectiveinterestrate,theloan™sobservablemarketprice,

orthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Interestreceivedonimpairedloansplaced

onnonaccrualstatusisgenerallyappliedtoreducethecarryingvalueoftheloanor,ifprincipalis

consideredfullycollectible,recognizedasinterestincome.
Residualvalueestimatesforcommercialleasesaregenerallydeterminedthroughinternalorexternal
reviewsoftheleasedproperty.TheCompanyreviewscommercialleaseresidualvaluesatleastannuallyand

recognizesresidualvalueimpairmentsdeemedtobeotherthantemporary.
Loansandleasesacquiredinabusinesscombination

LoansacquiredinabusinesscombinationsubsequenttoDecember31,2008arerecordedatfairvaluewith

nocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcreditlosses.Theexcessofcash

flowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheestimatedfairvalueofacquiredloansisrecognizedasinterestincome

overtheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequentdecreasesintheexpectedprincipalcashflowsrequirethe

CompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditionstotheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequent

improvementsinexpectedcashflowsresultfirstintherecoveryofanyrelatedallowanceforcreditlosses

andtheninrecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeoverthethen-remaininglivesoftheloans.
Purchasedimpairedloansrepresentspecificallyidentifiedloanswithevidenceofcreditdeterioration
forwhichitwasprobableatacquisitionthattheCompanywouldbeunabletocollectallcontractual

principalandinterestpayments.
Allowanceforcreditlosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossesrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,theamountoflossesinherentinthe

loanandleaseportfolioasofthebalancesheetdate.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Uponacquisitionofassets

takeninsatisfactionofadefaultedloan,theexcessoftheremainingloanbalanceovertheasset™sestimated

fairvaluelesscoststosellischargedoffagainsttheallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentdeclinesinvalue

oftheassetsarerecognizedasﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Premisesandequipment
Premisesandequipmentarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciation.Depreciationexpenseiscomputed

principallyusingthestraight-linemethodovertheestimatedusefullivesoftheassets.
Capitalizedservicingrights
Capitalizedservicingassetsareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Separately

recognizedservicingassetsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalue.TheCompanyusestheamortizationmethod

tosubsequentlymeasureservicingassets.Underthatmethod,capitalizedservicingassetsarechargedto

expenseinproportiontoandovertheperiodofestimatednetservicingincome.
Toestimatethefairvalueofservicingrights,theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilarassets
andthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculatedusing

assumptionsthatmarketparticipantswoulduseinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.Such

assumptionsincludeestimatesofthecostofservicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriatediscountrate,

andprepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesofevaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentofcapitalizedservicing

rights,theCompanystratifiessuchassetsbasedonthepredominantriskcharacteristicsoftheunderlying

financialinstrumentsthatareexpectedtohavethemostimpactonprojectedprepayments,costofservicing

andotherfactorsaffectingfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrights.Suchfactorsmayinclude

financialassetorloantype,noterateandterm.Theamountofimpairmentrecognizedistheamountby
110whichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsforastratumexceedsestimatedfairvalue.
Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluationallowance.
Salesandsecuritizationsoffinancialassets
TransfersoffinancialassetsforwhichtheCompanyhassurrenderedcontrolofthefinancialassetsare

accountedforassales.InterestsinasaleoffinancialassetsthatcontinuetobeheldbytheCompany,

includingservicingrights,aremeasuredatfairvalue.Thefairvaluesofretaineddebtsecuritiesaregenerally

determinedthroughreferencetoindependentpricinginformation.Thefairvaluesofretainedservicing

rightsandanyotherretainedinterestsaredeterminedbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecash

flowsassociatedwiththoseinterestsandbyreferencetomarketpricesforsimilarassets.
Securitizationstructurestypicallyrequiretheuseofspecial-purposetruststhatareconsidered
variableinterestentities.Avariableinterestentityisincludedintheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsifthe

Companyhasthepowertodirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpactthevariableinterestentity™s

economicperformanceandhastheobligationtoabsorblossesortherighttoreceivebenefitsofthevariable

interestentitythatcouldpotentiallybesignificanttothatentity.
Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
Goodwillrepresentstheexcessofthecostofanacquiredentityoverthefairvalueoftheidentifiablenet

assetsacquired.Goodwillisnotamortized,butratheristestedforimpairmentatleastannuallyatthe

reportingunitlevel,whichiseitheratthesameleveloronelevelbelowanoperatingsegment.Other

acquiredintangibleassetswithfinitelives,suchascoredepositintangibles,areinitiallyrecordedatestimated

fairvalueandareamortizedovertheirestimatedlives.Coredepositandotherintangibleassetsaregenerally

amortizedusingacceleratedmethodsoverestimatedusefullivesoffivetotenyears.TheCompany

periodicallyassesseswhethereventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethatthecarryingamountsofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsmaybeimpaired.
Derivativefinancialinstruments
TheCompanyaccountsforderivativefinancialinstrumentsatfairvalue.Ifcertainconditionsaremet,a

derivativemaybespecificallydesignatedas(a)ahedgeoftheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofa

recognizedassetorliabilityoranunrecognizedfirmcommitment,(b)ahedgeoftheexposuretovariable

cashflowsofaforecastedtransactionor(c)ahedgeoftheforeigncurrencyexposureofanetinvestmentina

foreignoperation,anunrecognizedfirmcommitment,anavailableforsalesecurity,oraforeigncurrency

denominatedforecastedtransaction.
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto
modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.Forsuchagreements,amountsreceivableorpayablearerecognizedasaccruedunderthetermsof

theagreementandthenetdifferentialisrecordedasanadjustmenttointerestincomeorexpenseoftherelated

assetorliability.Interestrateswapagreementsmaybedesignatedaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflow

hedges.Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandchangesinthefairvalues

ofthehedgeditemsarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththecorrespondinggainor

lossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebet
weenchangesinthefairvaluesofinterestrateswap
agreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfrom

operationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,theeffectiveportionofthe

derivative™sunrealizedgainorlossisinitiallyrecordedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincomeand

subsequentlyreclassifiedintoearningswhentheforecastedtransactionaffectsearnings.Theineffectiveportion

oftheunrealizedgainorlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂimmediately.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinthe
fairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsaleand

commitmentstosellrealestateloansaregenerallyrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatestimated

fairmarketvalue.
Derivativeinstrumentsnotrelatedtomortgagebankingactivities,includingfinancialfutures
commitmentsandinterestrateswapagreements,thatdonotsatisfythehedgeaccountingrequirementsare

recordedatfairvalueandaregenerallyclassifiedastradingaccountassetsorliabilitieswithresultant

changesinfairvaluebeingrecognizedinﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.
111Stock-basedcompensation
Stock-basedcompensationexpenseisrecognizedoverthevestingperiodofthestock-basedgrantbasedon

theestimatedgrantdatevalueofthestock-basedcompensationthatisexpectedtovest,exceptthatthe

recognitionofcompensationcostsisacceleratedforstock-basedawardsgrantedtoretirement-eligible

employeesandemployeeswhowillbecomeretirement-eligiblepriortofullvestingoftheawardbecausethe

Company™sincentivecompensationplanallowsforvestingatthetimeanemployeeretires.
Incometaxes
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognizedforthef
uturetaxeffectsattributabletodifferencesbetweenthe
financialstatementvalueofexistingassetsandliabilitiesandtheirrespectivetaxbasesandcarryforwards.

Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesaremeasuredusingenactedtaxratesandlaws.
TheCompanyevaluatesuncertaintaxpositionsusingthetwo-stepprocessrequiredbyGAAP.The
firststeprequiresadeterminationofwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatataxpositionwillbesustained

uponexamination,includingresolutionofanyrelatedappealsorlitigationprocesses,basedonthetechnical

meritsoftheposition.Underthesecondstep,ataxpositionthatmeetsthemore-likely-than-not

recognitionthresholdismeasuredatthelargestamountofbenefitthatisgreaterthanfiftypercentlikelyof

beingrealizeduponultimatesettlement.
Earningspercommonshare
Basicearningspercommonshareexcludedilutionandarecomputedbydividingincomeavailableto

commonshareholdersbytheweighted-averagenumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(exclusiveofshares

representedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrants)andcommonshares

issuableunderdeferredcompensationarrangementsduringtheperiod.Dilutedearningspercommonshare

reflectsharesrepresentedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrantsandthe

potentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecuritiesorothercontractstoissuecommonstockwereexercisedor

convertedintocommonstockorresultedintheissuanceofcommonstockthatthensharedinearnings.

Proceedsassumedtohavebeenreceivedonsuchexerciseorconversionareassumedtobeusedtopurchase

sharesofM&Tcommonstockattheaveragemarketpriceduringtheperiod,asrequiredbytheﬁtreasury

stockmethodﬂofaccounting.
GAAPrequiresthatunvestedshare-basedpaymentawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightsto
dividendsordividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)shallbeconsideredparticipatingsecuritiesand

shallbeincludedinthecomputationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.The

Companyhasissuedstock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstock

unitsthatcontainsuchrightsand,accordingly,theCompany™searningspercommonsharearecalculated

usingthetwo-classmethod.
Treasurystock
RepurchasesofsharesofM&Tcommonstockarerecordedatcostasareductionofshareholders™equity.

Reissuancesofsharesoftreasurystockarerecordedataveragecost.
2.Acquisitions
OnAugust27,2012,M&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithHudsonCity

Bancorp,Inc.(ﬁHudsonCityﬂ),headquarteredinParamus,NewJersey,underwhichHudsonCitywillbe

acquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,HudsonCityshareholderswillreceive

considerationforeachcommonshareofHudsonCityinanamountvaluedat.08403ofanM&Tsharein

theformofeitherM&Tcommonstockorcash,basedontheelectionofeachHudsonCityshareholder,

subjecttoprorationasspecifiedinthemergeragreement(whichprovidesforanaggregatesplitoftotal

considerationof60%commonstockofM&Tand40%cash).AsofDecember31,2012totalconsideration

tobepaidwasvaluedatapproximately$4.2billion.
AtDecember31,2012,HudsonCityhad$40.6billionofassets,including$27.2billionofloansand
$11.5billionofinvestmentsecurities,and$35.9billionofliabilities,including$23.5billionofdeposits.After

themergeriscompleted,M&Texpectstorepayapproximately$12billionofHudsonCity™slong-term

borrowingsbyliquidatingitscomparably-sizedinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Themergerissubjecttoa

numberofconditions,includingregulatoryapprovalsandapprovalbycommonshareholdersofM&Tand

HudsonCity,andisexpectedtobecompletedbymid-year2013.
112OnMay16,2011,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofWilmingtonTrust
Corporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,inastock-for-stock

transaction.WilmingtonTrustoperated55bankingofficesinDelawareandPennsylvaniaatthedateof

acquisition.TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhavebeenincludedin

theCompany™sfinancialresultssinceMay16,2011.WilmingtonTrustshareholdersreceived.051372shares

ofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrustcommonstock,resultinginM&T

issuingatotalof4,694,486commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$406million.
TheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhasbeenaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodof
accountingand,accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecorded

atestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$10.8billion,including

$6.4billionofloansandleases(includingapproximately$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4

billionofcommercialloansandleases,$1.1billionofconsumerloansand$680millionofresidentialreal

estateloans).Liabilitiesassumedaggregated$10.0billion,including$8.9billionofdeposits.Thecommon

stockissuedinthetransactionadded$406milliontoM&T™scommonshareholders™equity.Immediately

priortotheclosingoftheWilmingtonTrusttransaction,M&Tredeemedthe$330millionofpreferredstock

issuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŒCapitalPurchaseProgram

(ﬁTARPﬂ)oftheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,the

Companyrecorded$112millionofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Thecoredepositandother

intangibleassetsaregenerallybeingamortizedoverperiodsof5to7yearsusingacceleratedmethods.There

wasnogoodwillrecordedasaresultofthetransaction,however,anon-taxablegainof$65millionwas

realized,whichrepresentedtheexcessofthefairvalueofassetsacquiredlessliabilitiesassumedover

considerationexchanged.TheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustaddedtoM&T™smarket-leadingpositionin

theMid-AtlanticregionbygivingM&TtheleadingdepositmarketshareinDelaware.
TheconsiderationpaidforWilmingtonTrust™scommonequityandtheamountsofacquired
identifiableassetsandliabilitiesassumedasoftheacquisitiondatewereasfollows:
(Inthousands)
Purchaseprice:
Valueof:

Commonsharesissued(4,694,486shares)
........................................$
405,557PreferredstockpurchasedfromU.S.Treasury
.....................................330,000Totalpurchaseprice
........................................................735,557Identifiableassets:
Cashandduefrombanks
......................................................178,940Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
...............................................2,606,265Othershort-terminvestments
..................................................57,817Investmentsecurities
..........................................................510,390Loansandleases
.............................................................6,410,430Coredepositandotherintangibles
...............................................112,094Otherassets
.................................................................969,106Totalidentifiableassets
......................................................10,845,042Liabilities:Deposits....................................................................8,864,161Short-termborrowings
........................................................147,752Long-termborrowings
........................................................600,830Otherliabilities
..............................................................431,812Totalliabilities
.............................................................10,044,555Netgainresultingfromacquisition
................................................$
64,930113ThefollowingtabledisclosestheimpactofWilmingtonTrust(excludingtheimpactofthemerger-
relatedgainandexpenses)sincetheacquisitiononMay16,2011throughtheendof2011.Thetablealso

presentscertainproformainformationasifWilmingtonTrusthadbeenacquiredonJanuary1,2010.These

resultscombinethehistoricalresultsofWilmingtonTrustintotheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementof

incomeand,whilecertainadjustmentsweremadefortheestimatedimpactofcertainfairvaluation

adjustmentsandotheracquisition-relatedactivity,theyarenotindicativeofwhatwouldhaveoccurredhad

theacquisitiontakenplaceontheindicateddate.Inparticular,noadjustmentshavebeenmadetoeliminate

theamountofWilmingtonTrust™sprovisionforcreditlossesof$42millionin2011and$700millionin

2010ortheimpactofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrecognizedbyWilmingtonTrustof$5

millionin2011and$38millionin2010thatmaynothavebeennecessaryhadtheacquiredloansand

investmentsecuritiesbeenrecordedatfairvalueasofthebeginningof2010.Furthermore,expensesrelated

tosystemsconversionsandothercostsofintegrationof$84millionandthe$65milliongainrecordedin

connectionwiththeacquisitionareincludedinthe2011periodsinwhichsuchcostswereincurredandgain

recognized.Additionally,theCompanyhasachievedfurtheroperatingcostsavingsandotherbusiness

synergiesasaresultoftheacquisitionwhicharenotreflectedintheproformaamountsthatfollow.
ActualSince
AcquisitionThroughDecember31,2011
ProForma
YearEnded
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
Totalrevenues(a)
....................................$380,945$4,202,109$4,064,729
Netincome
.........................................18,586808,696295,486
(a)Representsnetinterestincomeplusotherincome.
OnNovember5,2010,M&TBank,M&T™sprincipalbankingsubsidiary,enteredintoapurchaseand
assumptionagreementwiththeFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)toassumeallofthe

deposits,exceptcertainbrokereddeposits,andacquirecertainassetsofKBank,basedinRandallstown,

Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDIC

wherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.

Thetransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assets

acquiredandliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assets

acquiredinthetransactiontotaledapproximately$556million,including$154millionofloansand$186

millionincash,andliabilitiesassumedaggregated$528million,including$491millionofdeposits.In

accordancewithGAAP,M&TBankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$17million($28

millionbeforetaxes).Thegainreflectedtheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloan

lossesthatM&TBankobtainedfromtheFDIC.Therewasnogoodwillorotherintangibleassetsrecordedin

connectionwiththistransaction.TheoperationsobtainedintheKBankacquisitiontransactiondidnot

haveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
TheCompanyincurredmerger-relatedexpensesin2012,2011and2010relatedtosystems
conversionsandothercostsofintegratingandconformingacquiredoperationswithandintotheCompany.

Thoseexpensesconsistedlargelyofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththe

conversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandofficeconsolidations;

costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingcontractualarrangementsforvariousservices;initialmarketingand

promotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;severance(forformer

employeesofacquiredentities)andincentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,postage,

suppliesandothercostsofcompletingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsand

offices.114Asummaryofmerger-relatedexpensesincludedintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeforthe
yearsendedDecember31,2012,2011and2010follows:
201220112010(Inthousands)
Salariesandemployeebenefits
........................................$4,997$16,131$7
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
........................................1541244
Printing,postageandsupplies
........................................Š
2,66374
Othercostsofoperations
............................................4,86764,481646
$9,879$83,687$771
3.Investmentsecurities
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritieswereasfollows:
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedGainsGrossUnrealizedLossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................$
38,422$922$Š$39,344
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......20,375534820,901
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............3,163,210208,0602293,371,041
Privatelyissuedresidential
......................1,133,6394,894125,6471,012,886
Privatelyissuedcommercial
....................8,6482,3782611,000
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................43,22819,6631,02261,869
Otherdebtsecurities
............................136,6032,24726,900111,950
Equitysecurities
................................98,94514,9213,420110,446
4,643,070253,619157,2524,739,437
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......182,1037,64727189,723
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............597,34031,727Š629,067
Privatelyissued
...............................242,37816094,900147,638
Otherdebtsecurities
............................10,455ŠŠ10,455
1,032,27639,53494,927976,883
Othersecurities
................................302,648ŠŠ302,648
Total.........................................$5,977,994$293,153$252,179$6,018,968
115AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedGainsGrossUnrealizedLossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................$
69,468$1,255$Š$70,723
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......39,5187712040,269
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............4,344,116177,3922754,521,233
Privatelyissuedresidential
......................1,369,3716,373239,4881,136,256
Privatelyissuedcommercial
....................17,679Š2,65015,029
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................43,83411,1542,48852,500
Otherdebtsecurities
............................216,7004,58844,443176,845
Equitysecurities
................................211,7378,4684,500215,705
6,312,423210,001293,8646,228,560
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......188,6809,14128197,793
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............608,53324,881Š633,414
Privatelyissued
...............................268,642Š99,140169,502
Otherdebtsecurities
............................11,853ŠŠ11,853
1,077,70834,02299,1681,012,562
Othersecurities
................................366,886ŠŠ366,886
Total.........................................$7,757,017$244,023$393,032$7,608,008
Noinvestmentinsecuritiesofasinglenon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceeded
tenpercentofshareholders™equityatDecember31,2012.
AsofDecember31,2012,thelatestavailableinvestmentratingsofallobligationsofstatesand
politicalsubdivisions,privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,collateralizeddebtobligationsandother

debtsecuritieswere:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
AverageCreditRatingofFairValueAmount
AorBetter
BBBBBBorLess
NotRated
(Inthousands)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions................$
202,478$210,624$169,660$7,215$200$Š$33,549
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Privatelyissuedresidential
....1,376,0171,160,524206,47987,866151,980712,7651,434
Privatelyissuedcommercial...8,64811,000ŠŠŠ11,000Š
Collateralizeddebtobligations...43,22861,8694,26810,29810,77036,533Š

Otherdebtsecurities
...........147,058122,40511,85257,38727,02914,53211,605
Total........................$1,777,429$1,566,422$392,259$162,766$189,979$774,830$46,588
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizedmortgageobligationsincludedin
mortgage-backedsecuritieswereasfollows:
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
Collateralizedmortgageobligations:
Amortizedcost
....................................................$1,414,691$1,750,922
Estimatedfairvalue
................................................1,202,2431,417,822
116Grossrealizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswerenotsignificantin2012or2010.
In2011,grossrealizedgainsfromsalesofinvestment
securitieswere$150,223,000andgrossrealizedlosses
were$36,000.During2011,theCompanysoldresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbythe

FederalNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ)andtheFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation

(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ)havinganaggregateamortizedcostofapproximately$1.5billionwhichresultedinagainof

$104million(pre-tax).TheCompanyalsosoldtrustpreferredsecuritiesandcollateralizeddebtsecurities

during2011havinganaggregateamortizedcostof$136millionand$100million,respectively,whichresulted

ingainsof$25million(pre-tax)and$20million(pre-tax),respectively.
TheCompanyrecognized$48million,$77millionand$68millionofpre-taxother-than-temporary
impairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesin2012,2011and2010,respectively.The

impairmentchargeswererecognizedinlightofdeteriorationofrealestatevaluesandariseindelinquenciesand

charge-offsofunderlyingmortgageloanscollateralizingthosesecurities.Inadditiontothosecharges,impairment

chargesin2010wererecognizedforapproximately$6millionrelatedtocollateralizeddebtobligationsbacked

largelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandfor$12millionrelatedtoAmerican

DepositaryShares(ﬁADSsﬂ)ofAlliedIrishBanks,p.l.c.(ﬁAIBﬂ)obtainedinM&T™s2003acquisitionofaformer

subsidiaryofAIB.Theother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrepresentmanagement™sestimateofcreditlosses

inherentinthedebtsecuritiesconsideringprojectedcashflowsusingassumptionsofdelinquencyrates,loss

severities,andotherestimatesoffuturecollateralperformance.
Changesincreditlossesduring2012,2011and2010associatedwithdebtsecuritiesforwhichother-
than-temporaryimpairmentlosseshavebeenrecognizedinearningsfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠbeginningbalance
.....................$
285,399$327,912$284,513
Additionsforcreditlossesnotpreviouslyrecognized
..............47,82277,03574,288
Reductionsforincreasesincashflows
..........................Š
(5,111)(754)
Reductionsforrealizedlosses
.................................(135,412)(114,437)(30,135)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠendingbalance
.......................$
197,809$285,399$327,912
AtDecember31,2012,theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofdebtsecuritiesbycontractual
maturitywereasfollows:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
Debtsecuritiesavailableforsale:
Dueinoneyearorless
.................................................$
4,918$4,952
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
.....................................41,80043,139
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
....................................9,52410,217
Dueaftertenyears
....................................................182,386175,756
238,628234,064
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesavailableforsale
...............................4,305,4974,394,927
$4,544,125$4,628,991
Debtsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Dueinoneyearorless
.................................................$
26,716$26,850
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
.....................................50,31052,526
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
....................................104,901110,167
Dueaftertenyears
....................................................10,63110,635
192,558200,178
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesheldtomaturity
...............................839,718776,705
$1,032,276$976,883
117AsummaryofinvestmentsecuritiesthatasofDecember31,2012and2011hadbeeninacontinuous
unrealizedlosspositionforlessthantwelvemonthsandthosethathadbeeninacontinuousunrealizedloss

positionfortwelvemonthsorlongerfollows:
LessThan12Months
12MonthsorMore
FairValue
UnrealizedLossesFairValue
UnrealizedLosses(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...........$166$(1)$683$(7)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...................12,107(65)8,804(164)
Privatelyissuedresidential
.........................121,487(692)773,409(124,955)
Privatelyissuedcommercial
........................ŠŠ919
(26)Collateralizeddebtobligations
........................ŠŠ
6,043(1,022)
Otherdebtsecurities
................................ŠŠ
95,685(26,900)
Equitysecurities
....................................5,535(1,295)2,956(2,125)
139,295(2,053)888,499(155,199)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...........1,026(5)3,558(22)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
..............ŠŠ
147,273(94,900)
1,026(5)150,831(94,922)
Total.............................................$140,321$(2,058)$1,039,330$(250,121)
December31,2011
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...........$Š$Š$
1,228$(20)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...................38,492(190)6,017(85)
Privatelyissuedresidential
.........................297,133(14,188)751,077(225,300)
Privatelyissuedcommercial
........................ŠŠ
15,029(2,650)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
........................2,871(335)4,863(2,153)
Otherdebtsecurities
................................72,637(9,883)73,635(34,560)
Equitysecurities
....................................9,883(4,500)ŠŠ
421,016(29,096)851,849(264,768)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...........3,084(4)1,430(24)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
..............1,883(592)167,139(98,548)
4,967(596)168,569(98,572)
Total.............................................$425,983$(29,692)$1,020,418$(363,340)
TheCompanyowned249individualinvestmentsecuritieswithaggregategrossunrealizedlossesof
$252millionatDecember31,2012.Approximately$221millionoftheunrealizedlossespertaintoprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithacostbasisof$1.3billion.TheCompanyalsohad$28millionof

unrealizedlossesonavailable-for-saletrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandsecurities

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritieshavingacostbasisof$130million.Basedonareviewofeachofthe

remainingsecuritiesintheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioatDecember31,2012,withtheexceptionofthe
118aforementionedsecuritiesforwhichother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosseswererecognized,the
Companyconcludedthatitexpectedtorecovertheamortizedcostbasisofitsinvestment.Asof

December31,2012,theCompanydoesnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredto

sellanyofitsimpairedinvestmentsecurities.AtDecember31,2012,theCompanyhasnotidentifiedevents

orchangesincircumstanceswhichmayhaveasignificantadverseeffectonthefairvalueofthe$303million

ofcostmethodinvestmentsecurities.
AtDecember31,2012,investmentsecuritieswithacarryingvalueof$4,297,092,000,including
$3,372,409,000ofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,werepledgedtosecureborrowingsfromvarious

FHLBs,repurchaseagreements,governmentaldeposits,interestrateswapagreementsandavailablelinesof

creditasdescribedinnote9.
InvestmentsecuritiespledgedbytheCompanytosecureobligationswherebythesecuredpartyis
permittedbycontractorcustomtosellorrepledgesuchcollateraltotaled$1,801,842,000atDecember31,

2012.ThepledgedsecuritiesincludedsecuritiesoftheU.S.Treasuryandfederalagenciesandmortgage-

backedsecurities.
4.Loansandleases
Totalloansandleasesoutstandingwerecomprisedofthefollowing:
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
LoansCommercial,financial,etc
............................................$16,500,202$14,419,490
Realestate:
Residential......................................................11,161,3237,889,569
Commercial.....................................................22,333,03620,312,648
Construction....................................................3,772,4134,203,324
Consumer.........................................................11,550,27412,020,229
Totalloans
......................................................65,317,24858,845,260
LeasesCommercial.....................................................1,472,9381,532,615
Totalloansandleases
...............................................66,790,18660,377,875
Less:unearneddiscount
.............................................(219,229)(281,870)
Totalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
..........................$66,570,957$60,096,005
One-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$1.2billionatDecember31,2012
and$210millionatDecember31,2011.Commercialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$200millionat

December31,2012and$161millionatDecember31,2011.
AsofDecember31,2012,approximately$2.0billionofcommercialmortgageloanbalancesserviced
forothershadbeensoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sparticipationintheFannieMae

DelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)program.AtDecember31,2012,theCompanyestimated

thattherecourseobligationsdescribedabovewerenotmaterialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancial

position.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasaresultofthosecreditrecoursearrangements.
Inadditiontorecourseobligations,asdescribedinnote21,theCompanyiscontractuallyobligated
torepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteria

relatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymay

reimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.Chargesincurredforsuch

obligation,whicharerecordedasareductionofmortgagebankingrevenues,were$28million,$23million

and$30millionin2012,2011and2010,respectively.
119Theoutstandingprincipalbalanceandthecarryingamountofacquiredloansthatwererecordedat
fairvalueattheacquisitiondatethatisincludedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetwereasfollows:
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
Outstandingprincipalbalance
.........................................$6,705,120$9,203,366
Carryingamount:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc
....................................928,1071,331,198
Commercialrealestate
.............................................2,567,0503,879,518
Residentialrealestate
..............................................707,309915,371
Consumer.......................................................1,637,8872,033,700
$5,840,353$8,159,787
Purchasedimpairedloansincludedinthetableabovetotaled$447millionatDecember31,2012and
$653millionatDecember31,2011,representinglessthan1%oftheCompany™sassetsasofeachdate.A

summaryofchangesintheaccretableyieldforacquiredloansfortheyearsendedDecember31,2012,2011

and2010follows:
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201220112010PurchasedOtherPurchasedOtherPurchasedOther
ImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquired(Inthousands)
Balanceatbeginningofperiod..$30,805$807,960$9,245$447,505$4,318$531,546
Additions..................ŠŠ
39,358648,6314,92213,747
Interestincome
..............(40,551)(295,654)(26,221)(268,315)(5,826)(171,207)
Reclassificationsfrom(to)
nonaccretablebalance,net...51,998148,4908,6291,8005,83134,000
Other(a)
...................Š
(22,524)(206)(21,661)Š39,419
Balanceatendofperiod
.......$
42,252$638,272$30,805$807,960$9,245$447,505
(a)Otherchangesinexpectedcashflowsincludingchangesininterestratesandprepaymentassumptions.
120Asummaryofcurrent,pastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2012and2011wereas
follows:90DaysorMorePast
DueandAccruing
Current30-89Days
PastDue
Non-acquiredAcquired(a)PurchasedImpaired(b)
NonaccrualTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
...........$17,511,052$62,479$23,490$10,587$17,437$151,908$17,776,953
Realestate:
Commercial..........21,759,997
118,24913,11154,995132,962193,85922,273,173
Residentialbuilderand
developer..........757,31135,4193,25823,909187,764181,8651,189,526
Othercommercial
construction........2,379,953
35,2745099,57268,97136,8122,531,091
Residential...........9,811,956337,969313,18445,12436,769249,31410,794,316
ResidentialAlt-A
......331,02119,692ŠŠŠ95,808446,521
Consumer:Homeequitylinesand
loans..............6,199,59140,759Š20,3183,21158,0716,321,950
Automobile..........2,442,50240,461Š251Š25,1072,508,321
Other...............2,661,43240,5994,8451,798Š20,4322,729,106
Total..................$63,854,815$730,901$358,397$166,554$447,114$1,013,176$66,570,957
December31,2011
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
...........$15,493,803$37,112$7,601$8,560$23,762$163,598$15,734,436
Realestate:
Commercial..........19,658,761172,6419,98354,148192,804171,11120,259,448
Residentialbuilderand
developer..........845,68049,35313,60321,116297,005281,5761,508,333
Othercommercial
construction........2,393,30441,04996823,58278,105106,3252,643,333
Residential...........6,626,182256,017250,47237,98256,741172,6817,400,075
ResidentialAlt-A
......383,83434,077ŠŠŠ105,179523,090
Consumer:Homeequitylinesand
loans..............6,570,67543,516Š15,4094,63547,1506,681,385
Automobile..........2,644,33048,342Š601Š26,8352,720,108
Other...............2,551,22543,5475,2492,34031023,1262,625,797
Total..................$57,167,794$725,654$287,876$163,738$653,362$1,097,581$60,096,005
(a)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotinclude
purchasedimpairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(b)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandwererecordedatfairvalue.
Ifnonaccrualandrenegotiatedloanshadbeenaccruinginterestattheiroriginallycontractedterms,
interestincomeonsuchloanswouldhaveamountedto$69,054,000in2012,$80,278,000in2011and

$90,351,000in2010.Theactualamountsincludedininterestincomeduring2012,2011and2010onsuch

loanswere$30,484,000,$31,301,000and$40,139,000,respectively.
121Duringthenormalcourseofbusiness,theCompanymodifiesloanstomaximizerecoveryefforts.If
theborrowerisexperiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionisgranted,theCompanyconsiderssuch

modificationsastroubleddebtrestructuringsandclassifiesthoseloansaseithernonaccrualloansor

renegotiatedloans.ThetypesofconcessionsthattheCompanygrantstypicallyincludeprincipaldeferrals

andinterestrateconcessions,butmayalsoincludeothertypesofconcessions.
ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2012:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
..................................61$
23,888$22,456$(1,432)$Š
Other...........................................3
2,9673,05285Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................5628740112
(102)Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
..................................24
22,85523,059204Š
Interestratereduction
.............................266570843
(129)Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................7
1,6371,65619(351)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
..................................23
36,86834,740(2,128)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................7
37,60236,148(1,454)Š
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
..................................6
81,06279,312(1,750)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
..................................36
4,6434,808165Š
Interestratereduction
.............................1109109Š
(20)Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................62
12,88613,146260(657)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
..................................796898921Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................38
8,5258,717192(159)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
..................................15
1,2851,285ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................1144144Š(6)
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................29
2,3322,332Š(368)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
..................................618
8,3478,347ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................22328328Š
(24)Other...........................................67300300ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................375
5,8575,857Š(684)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
..................................80
1,2011,201ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................22515515Š
(85)Other...........................................135454ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................84
1,0151,015Š(268)
Total...............................................1,608$256,681$251,018$(5,663)$(2,853)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
122ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2011:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
..................................53$
10,703$10,778$75$Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................3
2,0492,046(3)(654)
Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
..................................29
16,80416,704(100)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................3
15,77815,777(1)(1,463)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
..................................9
33,20826,811(6,397)Š
Other...........................................6
118,114110,156(7,958)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................5
2,5402,56121Š
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
..................................3
8,4368,553117Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................3
65,81360,973(4,840)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
..................................37
8,1758,23560Š
Interestratereduction
.............................14
1,9261,99165(318)
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................111
19,50819,934426(1,559)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
..................................380083535Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................34
6,8136,978165(889)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
..................................3259259ŠŠ
Other...........................................38686ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................26
2,1562,1582(444)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
..................................746
10,05310,053ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................17183183Š
(13)Other...........................................111739739ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................431
6,7036,703Š(808)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
..................................23400400ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................188Š(1)
Other...........................................4103103ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................102803803Š
(189)Total...............................................1,780$332,160$313,827$(18,333)$(6,338)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
123Troubleddebtrestructuringsareconsideredtobeimpairedloansandforpurposesofestablishingthe
allowanceforcreditlossesareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodified

loantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Impairmentoftroubleddebt

restructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaultedmayalsobemeasuredbasedontheloan™sobservablemarket

priceorthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Charge-offsmayalsoberecognizedon

troubleddebtrestructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaulted.Loansthatweremodifiedastroubleddebt

restructuringsduringthetwelvemonthsendedDecember31,2012and2011andforwhichtherewasa

subsequentpaymentdefaultduringtherespectiveperiodwerenotmaterial.
BorrowingsbydirectorsandcertainofficersofM&Tanditsbankingsubsidiaries,andbyassociates
ofsuchpersons,exclusiveofloansaggregatinglessthan$120,000amountedto$99,532,000and$96,523,000

atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.During2012,newborrowingsbysuchpersonsamountedto

$16,026,000(includinganyborrowingsofnewdirectorsorofficersthatwereoutstandingatthetimeoftheir

election)andrepaymentsandotherreductions(includingreductionsresultingfromretirements)were

$13,017,000.AtDecember31,2012,approximately$8.0billionofcommercialloansandleases,$9.6billionof
commercialrealestateloans,$5.9billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloans,$4.2billionof

homeequityloansandlinesofcreditand$3.1billionofotherconsumerloanswerepledgedtosecure

outstandingborrowingsfromtheFHLBofNewYorkandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
TheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioincludescommercialleasefinancingreceivablesconsistingof
directfinancingandleveragedleasesformachineryandequipment,railroadequipment,commercialtrucks

andtrailers,andaircraft.Asummaryofleasefinancingreceivablesfollows:
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
Commercialleases:
Directfinancings:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................$1,106,434$1,137,310
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................96,46896,479
Unearnedincome
...............................................(134,428)(153,704)
Investmentindirectfinancings
..................................1,068,4741,080,085
Leveragedleases:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................132,466154,551
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................137,570144,275
Unearnedincome
...............................................(50,378)(53,847)
Investmentinleveragedleases
...................................219,658244,979
Totalinvestmentinleases.
............................................$1,288,132$1,325,064
Deferredtaxespayablearisingfromleveragedleases
........................$
172,026$180,731
IncludedwithintheestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsatDecember31,2012and2011were$54
millionand$52million,respectively,inresidualvalueassociatedwithdirectfinancingleasesthatare

guaranteedbythelessees.TheCompanyisindemnifiedfromlossbyAIBonaportionofleveragedleases

obtainedintheacquisitionofaformersubsidiaryofAIBonApril1,2003.Amountsintheleveragedlease

sectionofthetablesubjecttosuchindemnificationincludedestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsof$7

millionand$13millionasofDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.
124AtDecember31,2012,theminimumfutureleasepaymentstobereceivedfromleasefinancingswereasfollows:
Total(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2013.......................................................................$
279,7582014.......................................................................243,2272015.......................................................................190,0002016.......................................................................148,3412017.......................................................................85,699Lateryears
...................................................................291,875$1,238,9005.Allowanceforcreditlosses
ChangesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfortheyearsendedDecember31,2012,2011and2010wereasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
2012CommercialResidentialConsumerUnallocatedTotal(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
.........$234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121$71,595$908,290
Provisionforcreditlosses...42,5105,21134,864119,2352,180204,000

Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(41,148)(41,945)(44,314)(103,348)Š(230,755)
Recoveries..............11,3756,1986,34220,410Š44,325
Netcharge-offs
............(29,773)(35,747)(37,972)(82,938)Š(186,430)
Endingbalance
............$246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418$73,775$925,860
2011Beginningbalance
.........$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$70,382$902,941
Provisionforcreditlosses...66,24044,40457,081101,0621,213270,000

Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(55,021)(86,869)(58,351)(109,246)Š(309,487)
Recoveries..............10,2249,5406,83418,238Š44,836
Netcharge-offs
............(44,797)(77,329)(51,517)(91,008)Š(264,651)
Endingbalance
............$234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121$71,595$908,290
2010Beginningbalance
.........$219,170$359,770$91,582$137,124$70,376$878,022
Provisionforcreditlosses...58,438159,02352,96097,5736368,000

Consolidationofloan
securitizationtrust
.......ŠŠ
2,752ŠŠ2,752
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(91,650)(124,087)(71,016)(125,593)Š(412,346)
Recoveries..............26,6215,85610,07323,963Š66,513
Netcharge-offs
............(65,029)(118,231)(60,943)(101,630)Š(345,833)
Endingbalance
............$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$70,382$902,941
Despitetheaboveallocation,theallowanceforcreditlossesisgeneralinnatureandisavailableto
absorblossesfromanyloanorleasetype.
125Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleasesonacollectivebasis.Forpurposesofdeterminingthelevel

oftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyevaluatesitsloanandleaseportfoliobyloantype.The

amountsoflosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliosaredeterminedthroughaloanby

loananalysisoflargerbalancecommercialandcommercialrealestateloansthatareinnonaccrualstatus

andbyapplyinglossfactorstogroupsofloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™sclassification

ofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsis

typicallybasedonexpectedfuturecashflows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsthatmayimpactthe

borrower™sabilitytopay.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtocommercialandcommercialrealestatecreditsonanindividualloanbasis.Loan

officersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe

Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsomonitoredbytheCompany™sloanreview

departmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loangradesareassigned

losscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™slossestimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factors

consideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponentfactorsincludeborrower-specificinformation

relatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,collateralvalues,geographiclocation,financial

conditionandperformance,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-

offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;changesintherisk

profileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;

andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Asupdatedappraisalsareobtainedonindividual

loansorothereventsinthemarketplaceindicatethatcollateralvalueshavesignificantlychanged,individual

loangradesareadjustedasappropriate.Changesinotherfactorscitedmayalsoleadtoloangradechangesat

anytime.Exceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalance

homogenousloansandacquiredloansthatareevaluatedonanaggregatedbasis,theCompanyconsidersa

loantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplyingGAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itis

probablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsofthe

loanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloanto

beimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubleddebtrestructuring.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalance

homogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobetroubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairment

givingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpected

cashflows.
126Thefollowingtablesprovideinformationwithrespecttoloansandleasesthatwereconsidered
impairedasofDecember31,2012and2011andfortheyearsendedDecember31,2012,2011and2010.
December31,2012
December31,2011
RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowanceRecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowance(Inthousands)
Withanallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.............$
127,282$149,534$33,829$118,538$145,510$48,674
Realestate:
Commercial..............................121,542143,84623,641102,886128,45617,651
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
............115,306216,21825,661159,293280,86952,562
Othercommercialconstruction
..............73,54476,8696,83620,23424,6393,836
Residential...............................103,451121,8193,521101,882119,4984,420
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................128,891141,94017,000150,396162,97825,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.................12,36013,5672,2549,38510,6702,306
Automobile..............................49,21049,21014,27353,71053,71011,468
Other...................................14,40814,4085,6678,4018,4012,084
745,994927,411132,682724,725934,731168,001
Withnorelatedallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.............32,63142,199Š53,10460,778Š
Realestate:
Commercial..............................78,380100,337Š71,63691,118Š
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
............74,307105,438Š133,156177,277Š
Othercommercialconstruction
..............23,01823,532Š86,65289,862Š
Residential...............................86,34296,448Š19,68625,625Š
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................31,35458,768Š34,35660,942Š
326,032426,722Š398,590505,602Š
Total:Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.............$
159,913$191,733$33,829$171,642$206,288$48,674
Realestate:
Commercial..............................199,922244,18323,641174,522219,57417,651
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
............189,613321,65625,661292,449458,14652,562
Othercommercialconstruction
..............96,562100,4016,836106,886114,5013,836
Residential...............................189,793218,2673,521121,568145,1234,420
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................160,245200,70817,000184,752223,92025,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.................12,36013,5672,2549,38510,6702,306
Automobile..............................49,21049,21014,27353,71053,71011,468
Other...................................14,40814,4085,6678,4018,4012,084
Total........................................$1,072,026$1,354,133$132,682$1,123,315$1,440,333$168,001
127YearEnded
December31,2012
YearEnded
December31,2011
AverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedTotalCashBasisTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,
etc.........................$
151,314$2,938$2,938$163,485$3,306$3,278
Realestate:
Commercial................185,1712,8342,834189,8372,0601,985
Residentialbuilderand
developer.................249,1911,5631,102317,2961,948860
Othercommercial
construction..............99,6725,0205,020105,947926684
Residential..................132,8885,2843,30099,1074,2712,286
ResidentialAlt-A
.............171,5467,1752,226196,1617,7131,965
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans...11,32266317911,428681106

Automobile.................51,6503,47072456,8623,8501,060
Other......................11,0284721975,00627389
Total........................$1,063,782$29,419$18,520$1,145,129$25,028$12,313
YearEnded
December31,2010
InterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
...............................$
244,687$4,834$4,810
Realestate:
Commercial...............................................240,1231,9831,740
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
..............................252,2291,716746
Othercommercialconstruction
...............................60,416371357
Residential................................................62,1043,0281,755
ResidentialAlt-A
...........................................220,5898,3971,758
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
..................................11,807790202
Automobile...............................................54,2213,6841,233
Other....................................................3,16524348
Total.......................................................$1,149,341$25,046$12,649
Inaccordancewiththepreviouslydescribedpolicies,theCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemthat
isappliedtoallcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiate

riskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectationsofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansand

commercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationofdefaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloan

gradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loans

withanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedasﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhen

determiningtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticizedloansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂifthe

Companynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreement
128ortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Alllargerbalancecriticizedcommercialandcommercialreal
estateloansareindividuallyreviewedbycentralizedloanreviewpersonneleachquartertodeterminethe

appropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhethertheloanshouldbereportedasaccruingor

nonaccruing.Smallerbalancecriticizedloansareanalyzedbybusinesslineriskmanagementareastoensure

properloangradeclassification.Furthermore,criticizednonaccrualcommercialloansandcommercialreal

estateloansareconsideredimpairedand,asaresult,specificlossallowancesonsuchloansareestablished

withintheallowanceforcreditlossestotheextentappropriateineachindividualinstance.Thefollowing

tablesummarizestheloangradesappliedtothevariousclassesoftheCompany™scommercialand

commercialrealestateloans.
RealEstate
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc
CommercialResidentialBuilderand
DeveloperOtherCommercialConstruction(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Pass.....................................$16,889,753$21,275,182$922,141$2,307,436
Criticizedaccrual
..........................735,292804,13285,520186,843
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................151,908193,859181,86536,812
Total....................................$17,776,953$22,273,173$1,189,526$2,531,091
December31,2011
Pass.....................................$14,869,636$19,089,252$1,085,970$2,254,609
Criticizedaccrual
..........................701,202999,085140,787282,399
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................163,598171,111281,576106,325
Total....................................$15,734,436$20,259,448$1,508,333$2,643,333
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,residentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansare
generallyevaluatedcollectivelyafterconsideringsuchfactorsaspaymentperformanceandrecentloss

experienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesinthemarketplaceaswellasthe

amountofloandefaults.Lossratesonsuchloansaredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistory

andareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsincluding

near-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™sCreditDepartment.Inarrivingatsuch

forecasts,theCompanyconsidersthecurrentestimatedfairvalueofitscollateralbasedongeographical

adjustmentsforhomepricedepreciation/appreciationandoverallborrowerrepaymentperformance.With

regardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompanycontemplatesrepaymentofthe

originalbalanceofanyfirstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonasecondlienposition.However,

residentialrealestateloansandoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremore

than150dayspastduearegenerallyevaluatedforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisgivingconsideration

toestimatedcollateralvalues.
TheCompanyalsomeasuresadditionallossesforpurchasedimpairedloanswhenitisprobablethat
theCompanywillbeunabletocollectallcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionplusadditionalcashflows

expectedtobecollectedarisingfromchangesinestimatesafteracquisition.Thedeterminationofthe

allocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesisverysubjective.Giventhatinherentsubjectivityand

potentialimprecisioninvolvedindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,the

Companyalsoprovidesaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowance.Theunallocatedportionofthe

allowanceisintendedtorecognizeprobablelossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiableandincludes

management™ssubjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessarytoprovideforthepossibleuseofimprecise

estimatesindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowance.Therefore,theleveloftheunallocated

portionoftheallowanceisprimarilyreflectiveoftheinherentimprecisioninthevariouscalculationsused

indeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Otherfactorsthatcouldalsoleadto

changesintheunallocatedportionincludetheeffectsofexpansionintonewmarketsforwhichthe

Companydoesnothavethesamedegreeoffamiliarityandexperienceregardingportfolioperformancein

changingmarketconditions,theintroductionofnewloanandleaseproducttypes,andotherrisks

associatedwiththeCompany™sloanportfoliothatmaynotbespecificallyidentifiable.
129TheallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™s
impairmentmethodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
.........$
33,669$55,291$20,502$22,194$131,656
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
..........212,930280,78966,684156,661717,064
Purchasedimpaired
........................160
1,0211,6215633,365
Allocated.................................$246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418852,085
Unallocated...............................73,775Total.....................................$925,860December31,2011
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
.........$
48,517$71,784$29,420$15,858$165,579
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
..........185,048291,27160,742126,613663,674
Purchasedimpaired
........................457
4,5821,7536507,442
Allocated.................................$234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121836,695
Unallocated...............................71,595Total.....................................$908,290TherecordedinvestmentinloansandleasessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™simpairment
methodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment..............$
159,761$480,335$349,477$75,978$1,065,551
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment..............17,599,75525,123,75810,854,59111,480,18865,058,292
Purchasedimpaired
.........17,437389,69736,7693,211447,114
Total.....................$17,776,953$25,993,790$11,240,837$11,559,377$66,570,957
December31,2011
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment...............$
171,442$561,615$306,320$71,496$1,110,873
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment...............15,539,23223,281,5857,560,10411,950,84958,331,770
Purchasedimpaired
..........23,762567,91456,7414,945653,362
Total......................$15,734,436$24,411,114$7,923,165$12,027,290$60,096,005
1306.Premisesandequipment
Thedetailofpremisesandequipmentwasasfollows:
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
Land..............................................................$
84,545$86,120
BuildingsŠowned
..................................................393,527365,087
BuildingsŠcapitalleases
.............................................1,1311,131
Leaseholdimprovements
.............................................198,498198,379
FurnitureandequipmentŠowned
.....................................465,113436,203
FurnitureandequipmentŠcapitalleases
................................17,9159,407
1,160,7291,096,327
Less:accumulateddepreciationandamortization
Ownedassets
.....................................................559,948512,399
Capitalleases
.....................................................6,1292,493
566,077514,892
Premisesandequipment,net
..........................................$
594,652$581,435
Netleaseexpenseforalloperatingleasestotaled$102,924,000in2012,$97,098,000in2011and
$94,646,000in2010.Minimumleasepaymentsundernoncancelableoperatingleasesarepresentedin

note21.Minimumleasepaymentsrequiredundercapitalleasesarenotmaterial.
7.Capitalizedservicingassets
Changesincapitalizedservicingassetswereasfollows:
ResidentialMortgageLoans
Small-BalanceCommercialMortgageLoans
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201220112010201220112010(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
..............$131,264$92,066$101,155$15,678$26,197$40,251
Originations...................14,57713,92027,430ŠŠŠ
Purchases.....................109
61,642593ŠŠŠ
Consolidationofloan
securitizationtrusts(note19)...ŠŠ(1,843)ŠŠŠ
Amortization..................(41,095)(36,364)(35,269)(7,535)(10,519)(14,054)
104,855131,26492,0668,14315,67826,197
Valuationallowance
............(4,500)(1,800)ŠŠŠŠ
Endingbalance,net
.............$100,355$129,464$92,066$8,143$15,678$26,197
131CommercialMortgageLoans
TotalForYearEndedDecember31,
201220112010201220112010(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
...............$
51,250$42,613$32,896$198,192$160,876$174,302
Originations...................19,65317,61316,97634,23031,53344,406
Purchases......................ŠŠŠ109
61,642593
Consolidationofloan
securitizationtrusts(note19)...ŠŠŠŠŠ(1,843)
Amortization...................(10,925)(8,976)(7,259)(59,555)(55,859)(56,582)
59,97851,25042,613172,976198,192160,876
Valuationallowance
.............ŠŠŠ
(4,500)(1,800)Š
Endingbalance,net
..............$
59,978$51,250$42,613$168,476$196,392$160,876
Residentialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$32.1billionatDecember31,2012,$36.3billion
atDecember31,2011and$15.9billionatDecember31,2010.Small-balancecommercialmortgageloans

servicedforotherswere$3.8billion,$4.4billionand$5.2billionatDecember31,2012,2011and2010,

respectively.Commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$10.6billion,$9.0billionand$8.1billion

atDecember31,2012,2011and2010,respectively.
Changesinthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetswerenot
significantin2012,2011or2010.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicing

assetswasapproximately$138millionatDecember31,2012and$168millionatDecember31,2011.The

fairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswasestimatedusingweighted-average

discountratesof10.6%and10.4%atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively,andcontemporaneous

prepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,2012and2011,thediscountrate

representedaweighted-averageoption-adjustedspread(ﬁOASﬂ)of929basispoints(hundredthsofone

percent)and978basispoints,respectively,overmarketimpliedforwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates.

Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloanservicingassetswas

approximately$43millionatDecember31,2012and$49millionatDecember31,2011.Thefairvalueof

capitalizedsmall-balancecommercialloanservicingassetswasestimatedusingweighted-averagediscount

ratesof19.4%and19.2%atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively,andcontemporaneousprepayment

assumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,2012and2011,thediscountraterepresenteda

weighted-averageOASof1,791basispointsand1,783basispoints,respectively,overmarketimplied

forwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialandsmall-

balancecommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsmayvarysignificantlyinsubsequentperiodsdueto

changinginterestratesandtheeffectthereofonprepaymentspeeds.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalized

commercialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapproximately$71millionand$60millionatDecember31,

2012and2011,respectively.An18%discountratewasusedtoestimatethefairvalueofcapitalized

commercialmortgageloanservicingrightsatDecember31,2012and2011withnoprepayment

assumptionsbecause,ingeneral,theservicingagreementsallowtheCompanytoshareincustomerloan

prepaymentfeesandtherebyrecovertheremainingcarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrights

associatedwithsuchloan.TheCompany™sabilitytorealizethecarryingvalueofcapitalizedcommercial

mortgageservicingrightsismoredependentontheborrowers™abilitiestorepaytheunderlyingloansthan

onprepaymentsorchangesininterestrates.
Thekeyeconomicassumptionsusedtodeterminethefairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsat
December31,2012andthesensitivityofsuchvaluetochangesinthoseassumptionsaresummarizedinthe

tablethatfollows.Thosecalculatedsensitivitiesarehypotheticalandactualchangesinthefairvalueof

capitalizedservicingrightsmaydiffersignificantlyfromtheamountspresentedherein.Theeffectofa

variationinaparticularassumptiononthefairvalueoftheservicingrightsiscalculatedwithoutchanging
132anyotherassumption.Inreality,changesinonefactormayresultinchangesinanotherwhichmaymagnify
orcounteractthesensitivities.Thechangesinassumptionsarepresumedtobeinstantaneous.
ResidentialSmall-BalanceCommercialCommercialWeighted-averageprepaymentspeeds
....................19.50%9.16%
Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
.............$
(8,924,000)$(1,814,000)
Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
.............(16,880,000)(3,480,000)
Weighted-averageOAS
................................9.29%17.91%
Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
.............$
(2,857,000)$(1,468,000)
Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
.............(5,577,000)(2,832,000)
Weighted-averagediscountrate
.........................18.00%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
.............$(3,078,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
.............(5,940,000)8.Goodwillandotherintangibleassets
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydoesnotamortizegoodwill,however,coredepositandother
intangibleassetsareamortizedovertheestimatedlifeofeachrespectiveasset.Totalamortizingintangible

assetswerecomprisedofthefollowing:
GrossCarrying
AmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarrying
Amount(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Coredeposit
..........................................$755,794$670,940$84,854
Other...............................................177,268146,35930,909
Total................................................$933,062$817,299$115,763
December31,2011
Coredeposit
..........................................$755,794$626,453$129,341
Other...............................................177,268130,21547,053
Total................................................$933,062$756,668$176,394
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetswasgenerallycomputedusingaccelerated
methodsoveroriginalamortizationperiodsoffivetotenyears.Theweighted-averageoriginalamortization

periodwasapproximatelyeightyears.Theremainingweighted-averageamortizationperiodasof

December31,2012wasapproximatelyfouryears.Amortizationexpenseforcoredepositandother

intangibleassetswas$60,631,000,$61,617,000and$58,103,000fortheyearsendedDecember31,2012,2011

and2010,respectively.Estimatedamortizationexpenseinfutureyearsforsuchintangibleassetsisas

follows:(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2013.......................................................................$
46,9122014.......................................................................33,8252015.......................................................................20,9382016.......................................................................10,0522017.......................................................................3,303Lateryears
...................................................................733
$115,763133InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycompletedannualgoodwillimpairmenttestsasof
October1,2012,2011and2010.Forpurposesoftestingforimpairment,theCompanyassignedallrecorded

goodwilltothereportingunitsoriginallyintendedtobenefitfrompastbusinesscombinations,whichhas

historicallybeentheCompany™scorerelationshipbusinessreportingunits.Goodwillwasgenerallyassigned

basedontheimpliedfairvalueoftheacquiredgoodwillapplicabletothebenefitedreportingunitsatthe

timeofeachrespectiveacquisition.Theimpliedfairvalueofthegoodwillwasdeterminedasthedifference

betweentheestimatedincrementaloverallfairvalueofthereportingunitandtheestimatedfairvalueofthe

netassetsassignedtothereportingunitasofeachrespectiveacquisitiondate.Totestforgoodwill

impairmentateachevaluationdate,theCompanycomparedtheestimatedfairvalueofeachofitsreporting

unitstotheirrespectivecarryingamountsandcertainotherassetsandliabilitiesassignedtothereporting

unit,includinggoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Themethodologiesusedtoestimate

fairvaluesofreportingunitsasoftheacquisitiondatesandasoftheevaluationdatesweresimilar.Forthe

Company™scorecustomerrelationshipbusinessreportingunits,fairvaluewasestimatedasthepresentvalue

oftheexpectedfuturecashflowsofthereportingunit.Basedontheresultsofthegoodwillimpairmenttests,

theCompanyconcludedthattheamountofrecordedgoodwillwasnotimpairedattherespectivetesting

dates.AsummaryofgoodwillassignedtoeachoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsasofDecember31,
2012and2011forpurposesoftestingforimpairmentisasfollows.
(Inthousands)
BusinessBanking
...............................................................$
748,907CommercialBanking
............................................................907,524CommercialRealEstate
..........................................................349,197DiscretionaryPortfolio
..........................................................Š
ResidentialMortgageBanking
.....................................................Š
RetailBanking
.................................................................1,144,404AllOther
......................................................................374,593Total.........................................................................$3,524,6251349.Borrowings
Theamountsandinterestratesofshort-termborrowingswereasfollows:
FederalFunds
PurchasedandRepurchaseAgreementsOtherShort-termBorrowingsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
AtDecember31,2012
Amountoutstanding
....................................$1,074,482$Š$1,074,482
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%Š0.11%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2012
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$1,224,194$50,016
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................822,85916,043$838,902
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.15%0.57%0.15%
AtDecember31,2011
Amountoutstanding
....................................$
732,059$50,023$782,082
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.04%0.70%0.09%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2011
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$1,389,237$142,927
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................706,749120,059$826,808
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%0.18%0.12%
AtDecember31,2010
Amountoutstanding
....................................$
866,555$80,877$947,432
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.19%0.20%0.19%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2010
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$2,612,727$236,842
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................1,749,525104,508$1,854,033
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.15%0.33%0.16%
Short-termborrowingshaveastatedmaturityofoneyearorlessatthedatetheCompanyentersinto
theobligation.Ingeneral,federalfundspurchasedandshort-termrepurchaseagreementsoutstandingat

December31,2012maturedonthenextbusinessdayfollowingyear-end.Othershort-termborrowingsat

December31,2011included$50millionofborrowingsfromFHLBs.Therewerenosimilarborrowingsat

December31,2012.
AtDecember31,2012,theCompanyhadlinesofcreditunderformalagreementsasfollows:
M&TM&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Inthousands)
Outstandingborrowings
.....................................$Š$
29,586$Š
Unused...................................................30,00021,127,615309,658
M&ThasarevolvingcreditagreementwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbankwherebyM&Tmay
borrowupto$30millionatitsdiscretionthroughNovember25,2013.AtDecember31,2012,M&TBank

hadborrowingfacilitiesavailablewiththeFHLBswherebyM&TBankcouldborrowuptoapproximately

$9.8billion.Additionally,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.ﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBankof

NewYorktotalingapproximately$11.7billionatDecember31,2012.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.arerequiredtopledgeloansandinvestmentsecuritiesascollateralfortheseborrowingfacilities.
135Long-termborrowingswereasfollows:
December31,
20122011(Inthousands)
SeniornotesofM&TŠ5.375%due2012
................................$Š$
299,991AdvancesfromFHLB:
Variablerates
.....................................................Š
1,000,000Fixedrates
.......................................................30,066398,407
Agreementstorepurchasesecurities
.....................................1,400,0001,400,000
SubordinatednotesofWilmingtonTrustCorporation
(awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T):
4.875%due2013
..................................................251,298255,839
8.50%due2018
...................................................230,255237,194
SubordinatednotesofM&TBank:
3.85%due2013,variableratecommencedin2008
.......................Š
400,0006.625%due2017
..................................................455,439452,655
9.50%due2018
...................................................50,00050,000
5.585%due2020,variableratecommencing2015
.......................385,669378,917
5.629%due2021,variableratecommencing2016
.......................583,097589,516
JuniorsubordinateddebenturesofM&Tassociatedwithpreferredcapital
securities:Fixedrates:
M&TCapitalTrustIŠ8.234%,due2027
...........................154,640154,640
M&TCapitalTrustIIŠ8.277%,due2027
...........................103,093103,093
M&TCapitalTrustIIIŠ9.25%,due2027
...........................66,43466,759
BSBCapitalTrustIŠ8.125%,due2028
.............................15,56615,542
ProvidentTrustIŠ8.29%,due2028
...............................24,74624,483
SouthernFinancialStatutoryTrustIŠ10.60%,due2030
...............6,4966,474
M&TCapitalTrustIVŠ8.50%,due2068
...........................350,010350,010
Variablerates:
FirstMarylandCapitalIŠdue2027
................................144,102143,564
FirstMarylandCapitalIIŠdue2027
...............................145,301144,638
AllfirstAssetTrustŠdue2029
....................................95,91395,768
BSBCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
..................................15,46415,464
ProvidentTrustIIIŠdue2033
....................................51,69451,244
SouthernFinancialCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
......................7,6837,623
Other.............................................................40,79244,405
$4,607,758$6,686,226
Long-termvariablerateadvancesfromtheFHLBhadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom
0.26%to0.36%atDecember31,2011.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterestratewas0.29%at

December31,2011.Long-termfixedrateadvancesfromtheFHLBhadcontractualinterestratesranging

from3.48%to7.32%atDecember31,2012and0.79%to7.32%atDecember31,2011.Theweighted-

averagecontractualinterestratespayablewere4.64%atDecember31,2012and3.52%atDecember31,

2011.AdvancesfromtheFHLBmatureatvariousdatesthrough2035andaresecuredbyresidentialreal

estateloans,commercialrealestateloansandinvestmentsecurities.
Long-termagreementstorepurchasesecuritieshadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom3.61%
to4.30%atDecember31,2012and2011.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterestrateswere3.90%at

eachofthosedates.TheagreementsoutstandingatDecember31,2012reflectvariousrepurchasedates
136through2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesoftheunderlyinginvestmentsecuritiesextendbeyond
suchrepurchasedates.
ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankandWilmingtonTrustCorporationareunsecuredandare
subordinatetotheclaimsofothercreditorsofthoseentities.OnJuly2,2012,M&TBankredeemed$400

millionofsubordinatedcapitalnotesthatwereduetomaturein2013.
ThefixedandfloatingratejuniorsubordinateddeferrableinterestdebenturesofM&T(ﬁJunior
SubordinatedDebenturesﬂ)areheldbyvarioustrustsandwereissuedinconnectionwiththeissuanceby

thosetrustsofpreferredcapitalsecurities(ﬁCapitalSecuritiesﬂ)andcommonsecurities(ﬁCommon

Securitiesﬂ).TheproceedsfromtheissuancesoftheCapitalSecuritiesandtheCommonSecuritieswereused

bythetruststopurchasetheJuniorSubordinatedDebentures.TheCommonSecuritiesofeachofthose

trustsarewhollyownedbyM&Tandaretheonlyclassofeachtrust™ssecuritiespossessinggeneralvoting

powers.TheCapitalSecuritiesrepresentpreferredundividedinterestsintheassetsofthecorresponding

trust.UndertheFederalReserveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelines,theCapitalSecuritiesare

includableinM&T™sTier1capitalasofDecember31,2012.However,theDodd-FrankWallStreetReform

andConsumerProtectionActthatwassignedintolawonJuly21,2010providesforathree-yearphase-in

relatedtotheexclusionoftrustpreferredcapitalsecuritiesfromTier1capitalforlargefinancialinstitutions,

includingM&T.Thatphase-inperiodbeganonJanuary1,2013.ThevariablerateJuniorSubordinated

Debenturespayinterestquarterlyatratesthatareindexedtothethree-monthLIBOR.Thoseratesranged

from1.16%to3.69%atDecember31,2012andfrom1.28%to3.92%atDecember31,2011.Theweighted-

averagevariableratespayableonthoseJuniorSubordinatedDebentureswere1.75%and1.87%at

December31,2012and2011,respectively.
HoldersoftheCapitalSecuritiesreceivepreferentialcumulativecashdistributionsunlessM&T
exercisesitsrighttoextendthepaymentofinterestontheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasallowedbythe

termsofeachsuchdebenture,inwhichcasepaymentofdistributionsontherespectiveCapitalSecurities

willbedeferredforcomparableperiods.Duringanextendedinterestperiod,M&Tmaynotpaydividendsor

distributionson,orrepurchase,redeemoracquireanysharesofitscapitalstock.Intheeventofanextended

interestperiodexceedingtwentyquarterlyperiodsfor$350millionofJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesdue

January31,2068,M&Tmustfundthepaymentofaccruedandunpaidinterestthroughanalternative

paymentmechanism,whichrequiresM&Ttoissuecommonstock,non-cumulativeperpetualpreferred

stockorwarrantstopurchasecommonstockuntilM&Thasraisedanamountofeligibleproceedsatleast

equaltotheaggregateamountofaccruedandunpaiddeferredinterestontheJuniorSubordinated

DebenturesdueJanuary31,2068.Ingeneral,theagreementsgoverningtheCapitalSecurities,inthe

aggregate,provideafull,irrevocableandunconditionalguaranteebyM&Tofthepaymentofdistributions

on,theredemptionof,andanyliquidationdistributionwithrespecttotheCapitalSecurities.The

obligationsundersuchguaranteeandtheCapitalSecuritiesaresubordinateandjuniorinrightofpayment

toallseniorindebtednessofM&T.
TheCapitalSecuritieswillremainoutstandinguntiltheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesarerepaid
atmaturity,areredeemedpriortomaturityoraredistributedinliquidationtotheTrusts.TheCapital

Securitiesaremandatorilyredeemableinwhole,butnotinpart,uponrepaymentatthestatedmaturity

dates(rangingfrom2027to2068)oftheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesortheearlierredemptionofthe

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeupontheoccurrenceofoneormoreeventssetforthinthe

indenturesrelatingtotheCapitalSecurities,andinwholeorinpartatanytimeafteranoptional

redemptionpriortocontractualmaturitycontemporaneouslywiththeoptionalredemptionoftherelated

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeorinpart,subjecttopossibleregulatoryapproval.
137Long-termborrowingsatDecember31,2012matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2013.......................................................................$
258,1022014.......................................................................22,4362015.......................................................................5,7842016.......................................................................805,1292017.......................................................................1,059,716Lateryears
...................................................................2,456,591$4,607,75810.Shareholders™equity
M&Tisauthorizedtoissue1,000,000sharesofpreferredstockwitha$1.00parvaluepershare.Preferred
sharesoutstandingrankseniortocommonsharesbothastodividendsandliquidationpreference,buthave

nogeneralvotingrights.
IssuedandoutstandingpreferredstockofM&Tispresentedbelow:
December31,2012
December31,2011
SharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValueSharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValue(Dollarsinthousands)
SeriesA(a)(b)
FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
.....230,000$226,965230,000$224,277
SeriesC(a)(c)

FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,SeriesC,
$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare..............
151,500145,535151,500140,308
SeriesD(d)

FixedRateNon-cumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesD,$10,000liquidationpreferencepershare
....50,000500,00050,000500,000
(a)ShareswereissuedaspartoftheTARPoftheU.STreasury.Cashproceedswereallocatedbetweenthepreferredstock
andaten-yearwarranttopurchaseM&Tcommonstock(SeriesAŠ1,218,522commonsharesat$73.86pershare,

SeriesCŠ407,542commonsharesat$55.76pershare).Dividends,ifdeclared,willaccrueandbepaidquarterlyata

rateof5%peryearforthefirstfiveyearsfollowingtheoriginal2008issuancedatesandthereafterwerescheduledto

increaseto9%peryear.InAugust2012,theU.S.TreasurysolditsholdingsofM&T™sSeriesAandSeriesCpreferred

stocktothepublic,whichallowedM&TtoexittheTARP.CertainmodificationsweremadetothetermsoftheSeriesA

andSeriesCpreferredstock,subjecttoM&Tcommonshareho
lderapproval.Suchmodificationsincludedachangein
thedividendrateonNovember15,2013to6.375%(ratherthantheoriginal9%notedabove)andaprovisionthat

M&TwillnotredeemthepreferredsharesuntilonorafterNovember15,2018.InDecember2012,theU.S.Treasury

soldtootherinvestorstheSeriesAwarrantsfor$26.50perwarrant.
(b)OnMay18,2011,M&Tredeemedandretired370,000sharesoftheSeriesAPreferredStock.Accelerated
amortizationofpreferredstockdiscountassociatedwiththeredemptionwas$11.2million.
(c)ShareswereassumedinanacquisitionandanewSeriesCPreferredStockwasdesignated.

(d)ShareswereissuedonMay31,2011.Dividends,ifdeclared,willbepaidsemi-annuallyatarateof6.875%per
year.ThesharesareredeemableinwholeorinpartonorafterJune15,2016.NotwithstandingM&T™soptionto

redeemtheshares,ifaneventoccurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1Capital,M&Tmayredeem

alloftheshareswithin90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.
138InadditiontotheSeriesAandSeriesCwarrantsmentionedin(a)above,aten-yearwarrantto
purchase95,383sharesofM&Tcommonstockat$518.96persharewasoutstandingateachof

December31,2012and2011.ThatwarrantwasissuedbyWilmingtonTrustinDecember2008aspartofthe

TARPoftheU.S.Treasuryalongwith$330millionoffixedratecumulativeperpetualpreferredstock,which

wasredeemedbyM&TimmediatelypriortotheMay16,2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.
11.Stock-basedcompensationplans
Stock-basedcompensationexpensewas$57millionin2012,$56millionin2011and$54millionin2010.

TheCompanyrecognizedincometaxbenefitsrelatedtostock-basedcompensationof$30millionin2012,

$22millionin2011and$20millionin2010.
TheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplanallowsfortheissuanceofvariousformsof
stock-basedcompensation,includingstockoptions,restrictedstock,restrictedstockunitsandperformance-

basedawards.ThroughDecember31,2012,onlystock-basedcompensationawards,includingstock

options,restrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,thatvestwiththepassageoftimeasserviceisprovided

havebeenissued.AtDecember31,2012and2011,respectively,therewere5,307,228and5,619,632shares

availableforfuturegrantundertheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplan.
Restrictedstockawards
Restrictedstockawardsarecomprisedofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits.Restrictedstockawards
generallyvestoverfouryears.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockwas

$28millionasofDecember31,2012andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.5years.TheCompanygenerallywillissuerestrictedsharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailable,but

mayalsoissuenewshares.During2012,2011and2010,thenumberofrestrictedsharesissuedwas453,908,

451,248and423,002,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$36,969,000,$38,369,000

and$31,880,000,respectively.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockunits

was$7millionasofDecember31,2012andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.3years.During2012,2011and2010thenumberofrestrictedstockunitsissuedwas278,505,242,282and

231,037,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$22,139,000,$20,921,000and

$17,039,000,respectively.
Asummaryofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitactivityfollows:
RestrictedStockUnits
OutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
RestrictedStockOutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
UnvestedatJanuary1,2012
........................801,463$61.311,091,365$63.45
Granted.........................................278,50579.50453,90881.45
Vested..........................................(276,308)53.57(408,232)62.27
Cancelled.......................................(4,165)70.00(41,410)72.20
UnvestedatDecember31,2012
.....................799,495$70.281,095,631$71.01
Stockoptionawards
Stockoptionsissuedgenerallyvestoverfouryearsandareexercisableovertermsnotexceedingtenyears
andoneday.TheCompanyusedanoptionpricingmodeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueofstock

optionsgranted.Stockoptionsgrantedin2012,2011and2010werenotsignificant.
139Asummaryofstockoptionactivityfollows:
StockOptionsOutstandingWeighted-AverageAggregateIntrinsicValue
(Inthousands)
ExercisePriceLife(InYears)
OutstandingatJanuary1,2012
.....................9,839,948$98.37
Granted........................................100
79.74Exercised.......................................(2,432,316)82.65
Cancelled.......................................(1,814)94.76
Expired.........................................(372,559)107.93
OutstandingatDecember31,2012
..................7,033,359$103.303.4$26,212
ExercisableatDecember31,2012
....................7,007,472$103.533.4$24,761
For2012,2011and2010,M&Treceived$153million,$28millionand$55million,respectively,in
cashandrealizedtaxbenefitsfromtheexerciseofstockoptionsof$8million,$3millionand$7million,

respectively.Theintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsexercisedduringthoseperiodswas$21million,$7million

and$21million,respectively.AsofDecember31,2012,theamountofunrecognizedcompensationcost

relatedtonon-vestedstockoptionswasnotsignificant.Thetotalgrantdatefairvalueofstockoptions

vestedduring2012,2011and2010was$17million,$29millionand$38million,respectively.Uponthe

exerciseofstockoptions,theCompanygenerallyissuessharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailable,

butmayalsoissuenewshares.
Stockpurchaseplan
ThestockpurchaseplanprovideseligibleemployeesoftheCompanywiththerighttopurchasesharesof
M&Tcommonstockatadiscountthroughaccumulatedpayrolldeductions.Inconnectionwiththe

employeestockpurchaseplan,1,000,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereauthorizedforissuance,of

which719,900shareshavebeenissued.Therewere151,014sharesissuedin2012,nosharesissuedin2011

and170,405sharesissuedin2010.For2012and2010,respectively,M&Treceived$10,117,000and

$8,998,000incashforsharespurchasedthroughtheemployeestockpurchaseplan.Compensationexpense

recognizedforthestockpurchaseplanwasnotsignificantin2012,2011or2010.
Deferredbonusplan
TheCompanyprovidedadeferredbonusplanpursuanttowhicheligibleemployeescouldelecttodeferall
oraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestment

options,includingM&Tcommonstock.Participantscouldelectthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.

SuchdistributionsarepayableincashwiththeexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstock

whicharedistributableintheformofM&Tcommonstock.SharesofM&Tcommonstockdistributable

pursuanttothetermsofthedeferredbonusplanwere38,593and48,136atDecember31,2012and2011,

respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedinﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidated

balancesheet.ThroughDecember31,2012,133,051shareshavebeenissuedinconnectionwiththedeferred

bonusplan.
Directors™stockplan
TheCompanymaintainsacompensationplanfornon-employeemembersoftheCompany™sboardsof
directorsanddirectorsadvisorycouncilsthatallowssuchmemberstoreceivealloraportionoftheir

compensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.ThroughDecember31,2012,182,433shareshadbeen

issuedinconnectionwiththedirectors™stockplan.
Throughacquisitions,theCompanyassumedobligationstoissuesharesofM&Tcommonstock
relatedtodeferreddirectorscompensationplans.Sharesofcommonstockissuableundersuchplanswere

18,816and20,084atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedin

ﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
14012.Pensionplansandotherpostretirementbenefits
TheCompanyprovidespension(definedbenefitanddefinedcontributionplans)andotherpostretirement
benefits(includingdefinedbenefithealthcareandlifeinsuranceplans)toqualifiedretiredemployees.The

CompanyusesaDecember31measurementdateforallofitsplans.
Netperiodicpensionexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
Servicecost
..................................................$
29,549$28,828$19,670
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
................................62,03758,54547,905
Expectedreturnonplanassets
..................................(70,511)(60,700)(50,844)
Amortizationofpriorservicecost
................................(6,559)(6,559)(6,559)
Recognizednetactuarialloss
....................................37,38620,53013,551
Netperiodicpensionexpense
...................................$
51,902$40,644$23,723
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
Servicecost
.......................................................$668$535$383
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
.....................................3,7373,7613,130
Amortizationofpriorservicecost
.....................................21107176
Recognizednetactuarialloss(gain)
....................................53036(9)
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpense
..............................$4,956$4,439$3,680
141Datarelatingtothefundingpositionofthedefinedbenefitplanswereasfollows:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
2012201120122011(Inthousands)
Changeinbenefitobligation:
Benefitobligationatbeginningofyear
............$1,496,490$947,993$90,104$61,675
Servicecost
..................................29,54928,828668535
Interestcost
..................................62,03758,5453,7373,761
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,7653,383
Amendments.................................ŠŠ
(13,313)Š
Actuarial(gain)loss
...........................116,237194,622(182)10,303
Settlements/curtailments.......................(320)ŠŠŠ
Businesscombinations
.........................Š
315,210Š20,689
MedicarePartDreimbursement
.................ŠŠ918715
Benefitspaid
.................................(59,426)(48,708)(10,731)(10,957)
Benefitobligationatendofyear
..................1,644,5671,496,49074,96690,104
Changeinplanassets:
Fairvalueofplanassetsatbeginningofyear
........1,117,972838,465ŠŠ
Actualreturnonplanassets
.....................143,430(6,635)ŠŠ
Employercontributions
........................207,11575,6006,0486,859
Businesscombinations
.........................Š
259,250ŠŠ
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,7653,383
MedicarePartDreimbursement
.................ŠŠ918715
Settlements..................................(320)ŠŠŠ
Benefitsandotherpayments
....................(59,426)(48,708)(10,731)(10,957)
Fairvalueofplanassetsatendofyear
.............1,408,7711,117,972ŠŠ
Fundedstatus
..................................$
(235,796)$(378,518)$(74,966)$(90,104)
Assetsandliabilitiesrecognizedintheconsolidated
balancesheetwere:
Netprepaidasset
..............................$Š$
2,878$Š$Š
Accruedliabilities
.............................(235,796)(381,396)(74,966)(90,104)
Amountsrecognizedinaccumulatedother
comprehensiveincome(ﬁAOCIﬂ)were:
Netloss
.....................................$
480,084$474,153$12,134$12,845
Netpriorservicecost
..........................(23,455)(30,014)(13,173)161
Pre-taxadjustmenttoAOCI
.....................456,629444,139(1,039)13,006
Taxes........................................(179,227)(174,324)408(5,105)
NetadjustmenttoAOCI.
.......................$
277,402$269,815$(631)$7,901
TheCompanyhasanunfundedsupplementalpensionplanforcertainkeyexecutives.Theprojected
benefitobligationandaccumulatedbenefitobligationincludedintheprecedingdatarelatedtosuchplan

were$130,745,000asofDecember31,2012and$124,877,000and$123,085,000,respectively,asof

December31,2011.
142Theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforalldefinedbenefitpensionplanswas$1,618,119,000and
$1,472,140,000atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.AsofDecember31,2012,theaccumulated

benefitobligationforalldefinedbenefitpensionplansexceededplanassets.AsofDecember31,2011,the

accumulatedbenefitobligationforthosedefinedbenefitpensionplansinwhichsuchobligationexceeded

planassetstotaled$1,422,958,000(including$123,085,000relatedtotheunfundedsupplementalpension

plan).GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpense,are

recognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.Asindicatedintheprecedingtable,asof

December31,2012theCompanyrecordedaminimumliabilityadjustmentof$455,590,000($456,629,000

relatedtopensionplansand$(1,039,000)relatedtootherpostretirementbenefits)withacorresponding

reductionofshareholders™equity,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,of$276,771,000.Inaggregate,thebenefit

plansrealizedanetgainduring2012thatresultedfromactualexperiencedifferingfromtheplan

assumptionsutilized,fromchangesinactuarialassumptionsandfromplanamendments.Themainfactors

contributingtothatgainwereactualinvestmentreturnsfromassetsinthequalifieddefinedbenefitpension

planthatexceededexpectedreturnsplusanamendmenttothepostretirementmedicalplantoconformthe

benefitsofformeremployeesofWilmingtonTrustwiththoseofotheremployeesoftheCompany.

However,thosegainswerealmostentirelyoffsetbytheimpactofareductioninthediscountrateusedto

measurethebenefitobligationsatDecember31,2012to3.75%fromthe4.25%rateusedatDecember31,

2011.Asaresult,theCompanydecreaseditsminimumliabilityadjustmentfromthatwhichwasrecordedat

December31,2011by$1,555,000withacorrespondingincreasetoshareholders™equitythat,netof

applicabledeferredtaxes,was$945,000.Thetablebelowreflectsthechangesinplanassetsandbenefit

obligationsrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincomerelatedtotheCompany™spostretirementbenefit

plans.PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
Total(Inthousands)
2012Netloss(gain)
...........................................$
43,318$(182)$43,136
Priorservicecost(credit)
..................................Š
(13,313)(13,313)
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit
.....................6,559(21)6,538
Amortizationofloss
......................................(37,386)(530)(37,916)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
........$
12,491$(14,046)$(1,555)
2011Netloss
.................................................$261,957$10,303$272,260
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit
.....................6,559(107)6,452
Amortizationofloss
......................................(20,530)(36)(20,566)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
........$247,986$10,160$258,146
Thefollowingtablereflectstheamortizationofamountsinaccumulatedothercomprehensive
incomeexpectedtoberecognizedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpenseduring2013:
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
(Inthousands)
Amortizationofnetpriorservicecost(credit)
............................$
(6,559)$(1,356)
Amortizationofnetloss
..............................................41,593347
143TheCompanyalsoprovidesaqualifieddefinedcontributionpensionplantoeligibleemployeeswhowerenot
participantsinthedefinedbenefitpensionplanasofDecember31,2005andtootheremployeeswhohaveelectedto

participateinthedefinedcontributionplan.TheComp
anymakescontributionstothedefinedcontributionplan
eachyearinanamountthatisbasedonanindividualpartici
pant™stotalcompensation(generallydefinedastotal
wages,incentivecompensation,commissionsandbonuses)andyearsofservice.Participantsdonotcontributetothe

definedcontributionpensionplan.Pensionexpenserecordedin2012,2011and2010associatedwiththedefined

contributionpensionplanwasapproximately$17million,$13millionand$14million,respectively.
AssumptionsTheassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminebenefitobligationsatDecember31were:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits2012201120122011Discountrate
.....................................................3.75%4.25%3.75%4.25%
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
...........................4.50%4.50%ŠŠ
Theassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminenetbenefitexpensefortheyearsended
December31were:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
201220112010201220112010Discountrate
..........................................4.25%5.25%5.75%4.25%5.25%5.75%
Long-termrateofreturnonplanassets
.....................6.50%6.50%6.50%ŠŠŠ
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
................4.50%4.50%4.50%ŠŠŠ
OnMay16,2011pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitobligationswereassumedasaresultof
theacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.Initialliabilitiesandnetcostsweredeterminedusinga5.25%discount

rate,a4.0%increaseincompensationanda6.50%expectedreturnonassets.
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionasofeachmeasurementdatewasdeveloped
throughanalysisofhistoricalmarketreturns,currentmarketconditions,anticipatedfutureassetallocations,

thefunds™pastexperience,andexpectationsonpotentialfuturemarketreturns.Theexpectedrateofreturn

assumptionrepresentsalong-termaverageviewoftheperformanceoftheplanassets,areturnthatmayor

maynotbeachievedduringanyonecalendaryear.
Formeasurementofotherpostretirementbenefits,an8%annualrateofincreaseinthepercapita
costofcoveredhealthcarebenefitswasassumedfor2013.Theratewasassumedtodecreaseto5%over

30years.Aone-percentagepointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrendrateswouldhavehadthe

followingeffects:
+1%-1%(Inthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Serviceandinterestcost
.....................................................$141$
(126)Accumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation
..................................3,099(2,790)
PlanAssets
TheCompany™spolicyistoinvestthepensionplanassetsinaprudentmannerforthepurposeofproviding
benefitpaymentstoparticipantsandmitigatingreasonableexpensesofadministration.TheCompany™s

investmentstrategyisdesignedtoprovideatotalreturnthat,overthelong-term,placesastrongemphasisonthe

preservationofcapital.Thestrategyattemptstomaximizeinvestmentreturnsonassetsatalevelofriskdeemed

appropriatebytheCompanywhilecomplyingwithapplicableregulationsandlaws.Theinvestmentstrategy

utilizesassetallocationasaprincipaldeterminantforestablishinganappropriateriskprofile.Thetarget
144allocationsforplanassetsaregenerally55to70percentequitysecurities,25to40percentdebtsecurities,and3to
10percentmoney-marketfundsorothershort-terminvestments,althoughholdingscouldbemoreorlessthan

thesegeneralguidelinesbasedonmarketconditionsatthetimeandactionstakenorrecommendedbythe

investmentmanagersprovidingadvicetotheCompany.Equitysecuritiesincludeinvestmentsinlarge-capand

mid-capcompanieslocatedintheUnitedStatesandequitymutualfundswithdomesticandinternational

investments,and,toalesserextent,directinvestmentsinforeign-basedcompanies.Debtsecuritiesinclude

corporatebondsofcompaniesfromdiversifiedindustries,mortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernment

agencies,U.S.Treasurysecurities,andmutualfundsthatinvestindebtsecurities.Additionally,primarilyasa

resultoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,theCompany™sdefinedbenefitpensionplanheld$61,874,000(4%of

totalassets)ofrealestate,privateequityandotherinvestmentsatDecember31,2012.Returnsoninvestedassets

areperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaidmanagementinevaluatingsuch

returns.Furthermore,managementregularlyreviewstheinvestmentpolicyandmay,ifdeemedappropriate,

makechangestothetargetallocationsnotedabove.
ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2012,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2012
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
.......................$
46,657$46,657$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T..................................
120,914120,914ŠŠ
Domestic(a)............................147,382147,382ŠŠ
International............................8,5618,561ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic.............................188,950188,950ŠŠ
International..........................208,696208,696ŠŠ
674,503674,503ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b)............................307,712Š307,712Š
Government............................141,224Š141,224Š
International............................10,230Š10,230Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c)..........................107,576107,576ŠŠ
International..........................54,36254,362ŠŠ
621,104161,938459,166Š
Other:Diversifiedmutualfund
...................10,41510,415ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
........................4,603ŠŠ4,603
Privateequity
...........................5,347ŠŠ5,347
Hedgefunds
............................41,50910,000Š31,509
61,87420,415Š41,459
Total(d)..................................$1,404,138$903,513$459,166$41,459
145ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2011,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2011
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
..........................$
63,842$63,842$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T.....................................
93,74093,740ŠŠ
Domestic(a)...............................151,235151,235ŠŠ
International..............................8,2648,264ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic...............................125,223125,223ŠŠ
International............................127,071127,071ŠŠ
505,533505,533ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b)..............................275,079Š275,079Š
Government...............................88,261Š88,261Š
International..............................7,586Š7,586Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c).............................72,68072,680ŠŠ
International............................23,23423,234ŠŠ
466,84095,914370,926Š
Other:Diversifiedmutualfund
......................17,55717,557ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
...........................4,677ŠŠ4,677
Privateequity
..............................10,190ŠŠ10,190
Hedgefunds
...............................44,927ŠŠ44,927
77,35117,557Š59,794
Total(d)....................................$1,113,566$682,846$370,926$59,794
(a)Thiscategoryiscomprisedofequitiesofcompaniesprimarilywithinthemid-capandlarge-capsectoroftheU.S.
economyandrangeacrossdiverseindustries.
(b)ThiscategoryrepresentsinvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersfromdiverseindustries.

(c)Approximately40%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersand60%in
high-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2012.Approximately50%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestment

gradebondsofU.S.issuersand50%inhigh-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2011.Theholdingswithinthefunds

arespreadacrossdiverseindustries.
(d)Excludesdividendsandinterestreceivabletotaling$4,633,000and$4,406,000atDecember31,2012and2011,
respectively.PensionplanassetsincludedcommonstockofM&Twithafairvalueof$120,914,000(8.6%oftotal
planassets)atDecember31,2012and$93,740,000(8.4%oftotalplanassets)atDecember31,2011.No

investmentinsecuritiesofanon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceededtenpercentof

planassetsatDecember31,2012.
146ThechangesinLevel3pensionplanassetsmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2012wereasfollows:
BalanceŒ
January1,
2012SalesTotalRealized/UnrealizedGains(Losses)
BalanceŒ
December31,
2012(Inthousands)
OtherPrivaterealestate
..................................$
4,677$Š$(74)$4,603
Privateequity
.....................................10,190(4,892)495,347
Hedgefunds
......................................44,927(15,000)1,58231,509
Total........................................$59,794$(19,892)$1,557$41,459
TheCompanymakescontributionstoitsfundedqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanasrequired
bygovernmentregulationorasdeemedappropriatebymanagementafterconsideringfactorssuchasthe

fairvalueofplanassets,expectedreturnsonsuchassets,andthepresentvalueofbenefitobligationsofthe

plan.Subjecttotheimpactofactualeventsandcircumstancesthatmayoccurin2013,theCompanymay

makecontributionstothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2013,buttheamountofanysuch

contributionhasnotyetbeendetermined.TheCompanymadecashcontributionsof$200millionand$70

milliontothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2012and2011,respectively.TheCompanydidnot

makeanycontributionstotheplanin2010.TheCompanyregularlyfundsthepaymentofbenefit

obligationsforthesupplementaldefinedbenefitpensionandpostretirementbenefitplansbecausesuch

plansdonotholdassetsforinvestment.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyforsupplementalpensionbenefits

were$7,115,000and$5,600,000in2012and2011,respectively.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyfor

postretirementbenefitswere$6,048,000and$6,859,000in2012and2011,respectively.Paymentsfor

supplementalpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsfor2013arenotexpectedtodifferfromthosemade

in2012byanamountthatwillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
EstimatedbenefitsexpectedtobepaidinfutureyearsrelatedtotheCompany™sdefinedbenefit
pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsplansareasfollows:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2013.............................................................$
62,531$7,473
2014.............................................................66,0967,151
2015.............................................................68,8386,883
2016.............................................................75,7696,652
2017.............................................................78,5646,332
2018through2022
.................................................450,43427,647
TheCompanyhasaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplaninwhich
eligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributionstothe

plan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofanemployee™s

contribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.Employees™accounts,including

employeecontributions,employermatchingcontributionsandaccumulatedearningsthereon,areatall

timesfullyvestedandnonforfeitable.EmployeebenefitsexpenseresultingfromtheCompany™s

contributionstotheRSPtotaled$31,305,000,$27,738,000and$24,683,000in2012,2011and2010,

respectively.14713.Incometaxes
Thecomponentsofincometaxexpense(benefit)wereasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
CurrentFederal...................................................$309,156$277,631$250,489
Stateandcity
..............................................82,01453,56655,071
Totalcurrent
............................................391,170331,197305,560
DeferredFederal...................................................117,22934,32547,123
Stateandcity
..............................................14,629(401)3,945
Totaldeferred
...........................................131,85833,92451,068
Totalincometaxesapplicabletopre-taxincome
...............$523,028$365,121$356,628
TheCompanyfilesaconsolidatedfederalincometaxreturnreflectingtaxableincomeearnedbyall
domesticsubsidiaries.Inprioryears,applicablefederaltaxlawallowedcertainfinancialinstitutionsthe

optionofdeductingasbaddebtexpensefortaxpurposesamountsinexcessofactuallosses.Inaccordance

withGAAP,suchfinancialinstitutionswerenotrequiredtoprovidedeferredincometaxesonsuchexcess.

Recaptureoftheexcesstaxbaddebtreserveestablishedunderthepreviouslyallowedmethodwillresultin

taxableincomeifM&TBankfailstomaintainbankstatusasdefinedintheInternalRevenueCodeor

chargesaremadetothereserveforotherthanbaddebtlosses.AtDecember31,2012,M&TBank™staxbad

debtreserveforwhichnofederalincometaxeshavebeenprovidedwas$79,121,000.Noactionsareplanned

thatwouldcausethisreservetobecomewhollyorpartiallytaxable.
Incometaxesattributabletogainsorlossesonbankinvestmentsecuritieswerebenefitsof
$18,766,000in2012and$32,778,000in2010andexpenseof$28,712,000in2011.Noalternativeminimum

taxexpensewasrecognizedin2012,2011or2010.
Totalincometaxesdifferedfromtheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometax
ratetopre-taxincomeasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
Incometaxesatstatutoryfederalincometaxrate
...................$543,384$428,610$382,476
Increase(decrease)intaxes:
Tax-exemptincome
........................................(33,890)(33,799)(32,466)
Stateandcityincometaxes,netoffederalincometaxeffect
........62,81834,55738,360
Lowincomehousingandothercredits
.........................(42,074)(40,763)(29,882)
Non-taxablegainonacquisition
..............................Š
(22,725)Š
Other....................................................(7,210)(759)(1,860)
$523,028$365,121$356,628
148Deferredtaxassets(liabilities)werecomprisedofthefollowingatDecember31:
201220112010(Inthousands)
Lossesonloansandotherassets
.............................$
809,033$896,219$550,970
Postretirementandotheremployeebenefits
...................34,51739,99228,135
Incentivecompensationplans
..............................50,06749,18327,388
Interestonloans
.........................................72,27846,96543,563
Retirementbenefits
.......................................91,980147,99742,422
Stock-basedcompensation
.................................69,87478,01470,641
Unrealizedinvestmentlosses
...............................Š
50,52854,557
Depreciationandamortization
..............................12,1309,56313,332
Other..................................................103,02799,01251,768
Grossdeferredtaxassets
.................................1,242,9061,417,473882,776
Leasingtransactions
......................................(291,524)(294,150)(294,510)
Unrealizedinvestmentgains
................................(23,574)ŠŠ
Capitalizedservicingrights
.................................(20,348)(17,603)(14,739)
Interestonsubordinatednoteexchange
......................(8,794)(11,275)(13,534)
Other..................................................(61,410)(48,803)(36,080)
Grossdeferredtaxliabilities
..............................(405,650)(371,831)(358,863)
Netdeferredtaxasset
.....................................$
837,256$1,045,642$523,913
TheCompanybelievesthatitismorelikelythannotthatthedeferredtaxassetswillberealized
throughtaxableearningsoralternativetaxstrategies.
TheincometaxcreditsshowninthestatementofincomeofM&Tinnote25ariseprincipallyfrom
operatinglossesbeforedividendsfromsubsidiaries.
149Areconciliationofthebeginningandendingamountofunrecognizedtaxbenefitsfollows:
Federal,Stateand
LocalTax
AccruedInterestUnrecognizedIncomeTax
Benefits(Inthousands)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatJanuary1,2010
......................................$28,297$19,508$47,805
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduringprioryears
......Š
11,46811,468
Deceasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination...................................................................(1,403)(670)(2,073)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(967)(549)(1,516)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........(1,074)(9,061)(10,135)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2010
...................................24,85320,69645,549
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2011
...........4,659Š4,659
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(9,742)(5,497)(15,239)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
(1,645)(1,645)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination...................................................................(8,471)(8,201)(16,672)
Unrecognizedtaxbenefitsacquiredinabusinesscombination
.............................7,0343,92410,958
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2011
...................................18,3339,27727,610
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2012
...........860Š860
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
4,5144,514
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(1,002)Š(1,002)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination...................................................................(1,643)(1,412)(3,055)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2012
...................................$16,548$12,37928,927
Less:Federal,stateandlocalincometaxbenefits
........................................(9,479)NetunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2012that,ifrecognized,wouldimpactthe
effectiveincometaxrate
.........................................................$
19,448TheCompany™spolicyistorecognizeinterestandpenalties,ifany,relatedtounrecognizedtax
benefitsinincometaxesintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Thebalanceofaccruedinterestat

December31,2012isincludedinthetableabove.TheCompany™sfederal,stateandlocalincometaxreturns

areroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmay

resultinchallengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.

Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshave

beenappropriate.Shoulddeterminationsrenderedbytaxauthoritiesultimatelyindicatethatmanagement™s

assumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.Understatute,theCompany™sfederalincometaxreturnsfortheyears

2009,2010,and2011couldbeadjustedbytheInternalRevenueService,althoughexaminationsforthosetax

yearshavebeenconcluded.TheCompanyalsofilesincometaxreturnsinoverfortystatesandnumerous

localjurisdictions.Substantiallyallmaterialstateandlocalmattershavebeenconcludedforyearsthrough

2003.Itisnotreasonablypossibletoestimatewhenexaminationsforanysubsequentyearswillbe

completed.15014.Earningspercommonshare
Thecomputationsofbasicearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Incomeavailabletocommonshareholders:
Netincome
..............................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Less:Preferredstockdividends(a)
...........................(53,450)(45,839)(40,225)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount(a)
...............(8,026)(20,018)(10,518)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
......................968,022793,622685,418
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards...........................................(14,632)(11,879)(9,592)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
...................$
953,390$781,743$675,826
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonsharesoutstanding(includingcommonstockissuable)
andunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
............127,793124,524119,852
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
............(1,929)(1,861)(1,661)
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding
..........................125,864122,663118,191
Basicearningspercommonshare
..............................$
7.57$6.37$5.72
(a)Includingimpactofnotasyetdeclaredcumulativedividends.
Thecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
..........................$968,022$793,622$685,418
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards.............................................(14,593)(11,857)(9,565)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
....................$953,429$781,765$675,853
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonandunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
.........127,793124,524119,852
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
................(1,929)(1,861)(1,661)
Plus:Incrementalsharesfromassumedconversionofstock-based
compensationawardsandconvertiblepreferredstock
......541416652
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding
.....................126,405123,079118,843
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
.............................$
7.54$6.35$5.69
GAAPdefinesunvestedshare-basedawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightstodividendsor
dividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)asparticipatingsecuritiesthatshallbeincludedinthe

computationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.TheCompanyhasissued

stock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,which,in

accordancewithGAAP,areconsideredparticipatingsecurities.
Stock-basedcompensationawards,warrantstopurchasecommonstockofM&Tandpreferredstock
convertibleintosharesofM&Tcommonstockrepresentingapproximately8,905,000,11,268,000and

11,231,000commonsharesduring2012,2011and2010,respectively,werenotincludedinthecomputations

ofdilutedearningspercommonsharebecausetheeffectonthoseyearswouldhavebeenantidilutive.
15115.Comprehensiveincome
Thefollowingtabledisplaysthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincome:
Before-taxAmountIncomeTaxesNet(Inthousands)
FortheyearendedDecember31,2012
Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:

Available-for-sale(ﬁAFSﬂ)investmentsecuritieswithother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ):
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
.......................................................$
(150)$59$(91)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
...........................................(42,467)16,668(25,799)
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
...................................42,317(16,609)25,708
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains,net
........................................................137,922(54,083)83,839
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...........................9(4)5
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother
...................................137,913(54,079)83,834
Held-to-maturity(ﬁHTMﬂ)investmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
.......................................................(2,848)1,118(1,730)
Less:reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
...............................(1,660)652(1,008)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
...........................................(5,355)2,102(3,253)
NetchangeforHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
..................................4,167(1,636)2,531
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviously
transferredfromAFStoHTM
.......................................................4,530(1,778)2,752
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
.........................................188,927(74,102)114,825
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminatedcashflowhedges
.............(178)66(112)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
.................................................809
(290)519
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
................................................1,555(610)945
$191,113$(74,936)$116,177
FortheyearendedDecember31,2011
Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:

AFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
.......................................................$
(58,628)$23,106$(35,522)
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...........................3,814(1,497)2,317
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
...........................................(64,919)25,480(39,439)
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
...................................2,477(877)1,600
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŠallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains,net
........................................................144,941(56,714)88,227
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...........................146,115(57,256)88,859
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother
...................................(1,174)542(632)
HTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
.......................................................(10,317)4,049(6,268)
Less:reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
...............................(545)214(331)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
...........................................(12,116)4,755(7,361)
NetchangeforHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
..................................2,344(920)1,424
UnrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferredfromAFStoHTM:
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
.....................................6,490(2,548)3,942
UnrealizedholdinglossestransferredtoHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
.................580
(227)353
NetchangeforinvestmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferredfromAFStoHTM
..............7,070(2,775)4,295
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
.........................................10,717(4,030)6,687
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminatedcashflowhedges
.............(448)167(281)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
.................................................(1,240)437(803)
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
................................................(258,146)101,322(156,824)
$(249,117)$97,896$(151,221)
152Before-taxAmountIncomeTaxesNet(Inthousands)
FortheyearendedDecember31,2010

Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:

AFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
...................................................$
(104,039)$40,566$(63,473)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
......................................(81,199)31,552(49,647)
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
..............................(22,840)9,014(13,826)
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŠallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains,net
...................................................236,167(92,190)143,977
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
.......................1,581(610)971
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother
...............................234,586(91,580)143,006
HTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
...................................................(11,908)4,674(7,234)
Less:reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
...........................(7,984)3,134(4,850)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
......................................(5,082)1,995(3,087)
NetchangeforHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
.............................1,158(455)703
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviously
transferredfromAFStoHTM
...................................................8,264(3,243)5,021
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
....................................221,168(86,264)134,904
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminatedcashflowhedges
.........(448)167(281)
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...........................................(6,331)2,485(3,846)
$214,389$(83,612)$130,777
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),netconsistedofunrealizedgains(losses)as
follows:InvestmentSecurities
CashFlowHedgesForeignCurrencyTranslationAdjustmentDefinedBenefitPlansTotalWithOTTI
AllOther
(Inthousands)
BalanceatJanuary1,2010
.......$(76,772)$(142,853)$674$Š$(117,046)$(335,997)
Netgain(loss)during2010
......(10,281)145,185(281)Š(3,846)130,777
BalanceatDecember31,2010...(87,053)2,332393Š(120,892)(205,220)
Netgain(loss)during2011
......3,0243,663(281)(803)(156,824)(151,221)
BalanceatDecember31,2011...(84,029)5,995112(803)(277,716)(356,441)
Netgain(loss)during2012
......28,23986,586(112)519945116,177
BalanceatDecember31,2012...$(55,790)$92,581$Š$(284)$(276,771)$(240,264)
16.Otherincomeandotherexpense
Thefollowingitems,whichexceeded1%oftotalinterestincomeandotherincomeintherespectiveperiod,
wereincludedineitherﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂorﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
Otherincome:
Bankownedlifeinsurance
...................................$
51,199$50,776$50,483
Credit-relatedfeeincome
....................................68,59673,88662,294
Letterofcreditfees
.........................................58,49656,24749,762
Non-taxablegainfrombusinesscombination
...................64,930Otherexpense:
Professionalservices
........................................248,544222,122128,629
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
.....................59,55555,85956,582
Advertisingandpromotion
..................................52,38858,31241,869
Write-downofinvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ)....
79,01215317.Internationalactivities
TheCompanyengagesincertaininternationalactivitiesconsistinglargelyofcollectingEurodollardeposits,
engaginginforeigncurrencytrading,providingcredittosupporttheinternationalactivitiesofdomestic

companiesandholdingcertainloanstoforeignborrowers.AsaresultoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,

theCompanyofferscertaintrust-relatedservicesinEuropeandtheCaymanIslands.Revenuesfrom

providingsuchtrust-relatedserviceswereapproximately$24millionin2012and$15millionin2011.Net

assetsidentifiedwithinternationalactivitiesamountedto$179,433,000and$159,579,000atDecember31,

2012and2011,respectively.Suchassetsincluded$148,602,000and$128,187,000,respectively,ofloansto

foreignborrowers.DepositsatM&TBank™sCaymanIslandsofficewere$1,044,519,000and$355,927,000at

December31,2012and2011,respectively.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitatecustomerdemand

andasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseemreasonable.
18.Derivativefinancialinstruments
Aspartofmanaginginterestraterisk,theCompanyentersintointerestrateswapagreementstomodifythe

repricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsoftheCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-

bearingliabilities.TheCompanydesignatesinterestrateswapagreementsutilizedinthemanagementof

interestrateriskaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflowhedges.Interestrateswapagreementsaregenerally

enteredintowithcounterpartiesthatmeetestablishedcreditstandardsandmostcontainmasternettingand

collateralprovisionsprotectingtheat-riskparty.BasedonadherencetotheCompany™screditstandardsand

thepresenceofthenettingandcollateralprovisions,theCompanybelievesthatthecreditriskinherentin

thesecontractsisnotsignificantasofDecember31,2012.
Theneteffectofinterestrateswapagreementswastoincreasenetinterestincomeby$36millionin
2012,$38millionin2011and$42millionin2010.Theaveragenotionalamountsofinterestrateswap

agreementsimpactingnetinterestincomethatwereenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes

were$900millionineachof2012and2011and$1.01billionin2010.
Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposessummarizedbytypeoffinancialinstrumenttheswapagreementswereintendedtohedgefollows:
NotionalAmountAverageMaturityWeighted-AverageRateEstimatedFair
ValueGain
FixedVariable(Inthousands)(Inyears)(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
...........$900,0004.46.07%1.85%$143,179
December31,2011
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
...........$900,0005.46.07%2.07%$147,302
(a)Underthetermsoftheseagreements,theCompanyreceivessettlementamountsatafixedrateandpaysata
variablerate.
Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforriskmanagementpurposes
thatwereoutstandingatDecember31,2012maturein2016and2017.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellresidentialandcommercialrealestateloanstohedgethe
exposuretochangesinthefairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentshavegenerally

beendesignatedasfairvaluehedges.TheCompanyalsoutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloansto

offsettheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofcertaincommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.
Derivativefinancialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesincludedinterestratecontracts,foreign
exchangeandotheroptioncontracts,foreignexchangeforwardandspotcontracts,andfinancialfutures.

Interestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposeshadnotionalvaluesof$15.5billionand

$13.9billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Thenotionalamountsofforeigncurrencyand

otheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated$869millionand

$1.4billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.
154InformationaboutthefairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalance
sheetandconsolidatedstatementofincomefollows:
AssetDerivatives
FairValue
December31
LiabilityDerivatives
FairValue
December31
2012201120122011(Inthousands)
Derivativesdesignatedandqualifyingashedging
instrumentsFairvaluehedges:

Interestrateswapagreements(a)
......................$143,179$147,302$Š$Š
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
...............1,1142323,8252,287
144,293147,5343,8252,287
Derivativesnotdesignatedandqualifyingashedging
instrumentsMortgage-relatedcommitmentstooriginaterealestate
loansforsale(a)
.................................48,0567,9911971,068
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
...............1,9821,3286,5702,771
Trading:Interestratecontracts(b)
..........................399,963443,033365,616415,836
Foreignexchangeandotheroptionandfutures
contracts(b)..................................8,72519,1158,65818,723
458,726471,467381,041438,398
Totalderivatives
...................................$603,019$619,001$384,866$440,685
(a)Assetderivativesarereportedinotherassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
(b)Assetderivativesarereportedintradingaccountassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
AmountofUnrealizedGain(Loss)Recognized
YearEnded
December31,2012
YearEnded
December31,2011
YearEnded
December31,2010
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
(Inthousands)
Derivativesinfairvaluehedging
relationshipsInterestrateswapagreements:

Fixedratetimedeposits(a)
.....$Š$Š$Š$Š$
(503)$503
Fixedratelong-term
borrowings(a)..............(4,123)3,72450,665(47,916)41,628(39,802)
Total.......................$(4,123)$3,724$50,665$(47,916)$41,125$(39,299)
Derivativesnotdesignatedas
hedginginstruments
Trading:
Interestratecontracts(b)
.......$
8,004$6,130$3,760
Foreignexchangeandother
optionandfutures

contracts(b)...............(3,970)(2,649)(307)
Total.......................$
4,034$3,481$3,453
(a)Reportedasotherrevenuesfromoperations.
(b)Reportedastradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
155Inaddition,theCompanyalsohascommitmentstosellandcommitmentstooriginateresidential
andcommercialrealestateloansthatareconsideredderivatives.TheCompanydesignatescertainofthe

commitmentstosellrealestateloansasfairvaluehedgesofrealestateloansheldforsale.TheCompanyalso

utilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstooffsettheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofcertain

commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.Asaresultoftheseactivities,netunrealizedpre-taxgains

relatedtohedgedloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloans

wereapproximately$89millionand$12millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Changesin

unrealizedgainsandlossesareincludedinmortgagebankingrevenuesand,ingeneral,arerealizedin

subsequentperiodsastherelatedloansaresoldandcommitmentssatisfied.
TheaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinanetliabilitypositionatDecember31,
2012forwhichtheCompanywasrequiredtopostcollateralwas$281million.Thefairvalueofcollateral

postedforsuchinstrumentswas$266million.CertainoftheCompany™sderivativefinancialinstruments

containprovisionsthatrequiretheCompanytomaintainspecificcreditratingsfromcreditratingagencies

toavoidhighercollateralpostingrequirements.IftheCompany™sdebtratingweretofallbelowspecified

ratings,thecounterpartiestothederivativefinancialinstrumentscoulddemandimmediateincremental

collateralizationonthoseinstrumentsinanetliabilityposition.Theaggregatefairvalueofallderivative

financialinstrumentswithsuchcredit-risk-relatedcontingentfeaturesinanetliabilitypositionon

December31,2012was$84million,forwhichtheCompanyhadpostedcollateralof$65millioninthe

normalcourseofbusiness.Ifthecredit-risk-relatedcontingentfeatureshadbeentriggeredonDecember31,

2012,themaximumamountofadditionalcollateraltheCompanywouldhavebeenrequiredtopostwith

counterpartieswas$19million.
TheCompany™screditexposurewithrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueasofDecember31,2012of
interestrateswapagreementsusedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthrough

masternettingarrangementswithtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartiesas

wellascounterpartypostingsof$69millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Tradingaccountinterestrate

swapagreementsenteredintowithcustomersaresubjecttotheCompany™screditstandardsandoften

containcollateralprovisions.
19.Variableinterestentitiesandassetsecuritizations
In2002and2003,theCompanytransferredapproximately$1.9billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidential

mortgageloanstoqualifiedspecial-purposetrustsintwonon-recoursesecuritizationtransactions.In

exchangefortheloans,theCompanyreceivedcash,nomorethan88%oftheresultingsecurities,andthe

servicingrightstotheloans.ThroughDecember31,2009,alloftheretainedsecuritieswereclassifiedas

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsaleasthequalifiedspecial-purposetrustswerenotincludedinthe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.EffectiveJanuary1,2010,followingnewaccountingguidance

issuedbytheFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)theCompanydeterminedthatitwasthe

primarybeneficiaryofbothsecuritizationtrustsconsideringitsroleasserviceranditsretainedsubordinated

interestsinthetrusts.Asaresult,beginningJanuary1,2010,theCompanyincludedtheone-to-fourfamily

residentialmortgageloansthatwereincludedinthetwonon-recoursesecuritizationtransactionsinits

consolidatedfinancialstatements.TheeffectofthatconsolidationonJanuary1,2010wastoincreaseloans

receivableby$424million,decreasetheamortizedcostofavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesby

$360million(fairvalueof$355million),andincreaseborrowingsby$65million.Thetransitionadjustment

atJanuary1,2010asaresultoftheCompany™sadoptionofthenewaccountingrequirementswasnot

significant.Inthesecondquarterof2010,the2002securitizationtrustwasterminatedastheCompany

exerciseditsrighttopurchasetheunderlyingmortgageloanspursuanttotheclean-upcallprovisionsofthe

qualifiedspecial-purposetrust.AtDecember31,2012and2011,thecarryingvaluesoftheloansinthe

remainingsecuritizationtrustwere$151millionand$196million,respectively.Theoutstandingprincipal

amountofmortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbythequalifiedspecialpurposetrustthatwasheldbyparties

unrelatedtoM&TatDecember31,2012and2011was$23millionand$30million,respectively.Because

thetransactionwasnon-recourse,theCompany™smaximumexposuretolossasaresultofitsassociation

withthetrustatDecember31,2012islimitedtorealizingthecarryingvalueoftheloanslesstheamountof

themortgage-backedsecuritiesheldbythirdparties.
Asdescribedinnote9,M&Thasissuedjuniorsubordinateddebenturespayabletovarioustruststhat
haveissuedCapitalSecurities.M&Townsthecommonsecuritiesofthosetrustentities.TheCompanyisnot

consideredtobetheprimarybeneficiaryofthoseentitiesand,accordingly,thetrustsarenotincludedinthe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2012and2011,theCompanyincludedthe
156JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasﬁlong-termborrowingsﬂinitsconsolidatedbalancesheet.TheCompany
hasrecognized$34millioninotherassetsforitsﬁinvestmentﬂinthecommonsecuritiesofthetruststhat

willbeconcomitantlyrepaidtoM&TbytherespectivetrustfromtheproceedsofM&T™srepaymentofthe

juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiesdescribedinnote9.
TheCompanyhasinvestedasalimitedpartnerinvariouspartnershipsthatcollectivelyhadtotal
assetsofapproximately$1.5billionatDecember31,2012and$1.4billionatDeecember31,2011.Those

partnershipsgenerallyconstructoracquirepropertiesforwhichtheinvestingpartnersareeligibletoreceive

certainfederalincometaxcreditsinaccordancewithgovernmentguidelines.Suchinvestmentsmayalso

providetaxdeductiblelossestothepartners.ThepartnershipinvestmentsalsoassisttheCompanyin

achievingitscommunityreinvestmentinitiatives.Asalimitedpartner,thereisnorecoursetotheCompany

bycreditorsofthepartnerships.However,thetaxcreditsthatresultfromtheCompany™sinvestmentsin

suchpartnershipsaregenerallysubjecttorecaptureshouldapartnershipfailtocomplywiththerespective

governmentregulations.TheCompany™smaximumexposuretolossofitsinvestmentsinsuchpartnerships

was$270million,including$71millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2012and$271million,

including$75millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2011.TheCompanyhasnotprovided

financialorothersupporttothepartnershipsthatwasnotcontractuallyrequired.Managementcurrently

estimatesthatnomateriallossesareprobableasaresultoftheCompany™sinvolvementwithsuchentities.

TheCompany,initspositionaslimitedpartner,doesnotdirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpact

theeconomicperformanceofthepartnershipsand,therefore,inaccordancewiththeaccountingprovisions

forvariableinterestentities,thepartnershipentitiesarenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidated

financialstatements.
20.Fairvaluemeasurements
GAAPpermitsanentitytochoosetomeasureeligiblefinancialinstrumentsandotheritemsatfairvalue.

TheCompanyhasnotmadeanyfairvalueelectionsatDecember31,2012.
PursuanttoGAAP,fairvalueisdefinedasthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellanassetorpaidto
transferaliabilityinanorderlytransactionbetweenmarketparticipantsatthemeasurementdate.Athree-

levelhierarchyexistsinGAAPforfairvaluemeasurementsbasedupontheinputstothevaluationofan

assetorliability.
†Level1ŠValuationisbasedonquotedpricesinactivemarketsforidenticalassetsandliabilities.

†Level2ŠValuationisdeterminedfromquotedpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilitiesinactive
markets,quotedpricesforidenticalorsimilarinstrumentsinmarketsthatarenotactiveorby

model-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservableinthemarket.
†Level3ŠValuationisderivedfrommodel-basedandothertechniquesinwhichatleastone
significantinputisunobservableandwhichmaybebasedontheCompany™sownestimatesabout

theassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswouldusetovaluetheassetorliability.
Whenavailable,theCompanyattemptstousequotedmarketpricesinactivemarketstodeterminefair
valueandclassifiessuchitemsasLevel1orLevel2.Ifquotedmarketpricesinactivemarketsarenotavailable,

fairvalueisoftendeterminedusingmodel-basedtechn
iquesincorporatingvariousassumptionsincluding
interestrates,prepaymentspeedsandcreditlosses.Asse
tsandliabilitiesvaluedusingmodel-basedtechniques
areclassifiedaseitherLevel2orLevel3,dependingonthelowestlevelclassificationofaninputthatis

consideredsignificanttotheoverallvaluation.Thefollowingisadescriptionofthevaluationmethodologies

usedfortheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthataremeasuredonarecurringbasisatestimatedfairvalue.
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilities
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesconsistprimarilyofinterestrateswapagreementsandforeign

exchangecontractswithcustomerswhorequiresuchserviceswithoffsettingpositionswiththirdpartiesto

minimizetheCompany™sriskwithrespecttosuchtransactions.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefair

valueofitsderivativetradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesusingexternallydevelopedpricingmodelsbased

onmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuchvaluationsasLevel2.Mutualfundsheldin

connectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangementshavebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.Valuations

ofinvestmentsinmunicipalandotherbondscangenerallybeobtainedthroughreferencetoquotedprices

inlessactivemarketsforthesameorsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichall

significantinputsareobservableand,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.
157Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
ThemajorityoftheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavebeenvaluedbyreferenceto

pricesforsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservable

and,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.Certaininvestmentsinmutualfundsand

equitysecuritiesareactivelytradedand,therefore,havebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.
Themarketsforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieshaveexperiencedasharpreductionof
non-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesissuances,areductionintradingvolumesandwidebid-askspreads.

Althoughestimatedpricesweregenerallyobtainedforsuchsecurities,theCompanywassignificantly

restrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsusedinthevaluationofitsprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecuritiesportfolio.Specifically,marketassumptionsregardingcreditadjustedcashflows

andliquidityinfluencesondiscountratesweredifficulttoobserveattheindividualbondlevel.Becauseof

theinactivityinthemarketsandthelackofobservablevaluationinputs,theCompanyhasclassifiedthe

valuationofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesasLevel3.
TheCompanysupplementeditsdeterminationoffairvalueformanyofitsprivatelyissued
mortgage-backedsecuritiesbyobtainingpricingindicationsfromtwoindependentsourcesatDecember31,

2012and2011.However,theCompanycouldnotreadilyascertainthatthebasisofsuchvaluationscouldbe

ascribedtoorderlyandobservabletradesinthemarketforprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backed

securities.Asaresult,theCompanyalsoperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfair

valueofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcostbasisof$1.1billionat

December31,2012and$1.3billionatDecember31,2011.TheCompany™sinternalmodelingtechniques

includeddiscountingestimatedbond-specificcashflowsusingassumptionsaboutcashflowsassociatedwith

loansunderlyingeachofthebonds,includingestimatesaboutthetimingandamountofcreditlossesand

prepayments.Inestimatingthosecashflows,theCompanyusedassumptionsastofuturedelinquency,

defaults,collateralvaluationandlossrates.Differencesbetweeninternalmodelvaluationsandexternal

pricingindicationsweregenerallyconsideredtobereflectiveofthelackofliquidityinthemarketfor

privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesgiventhenatureofthecashflowmodelingperformedinthe

Company™sassessmentofvalue.Todeterminethepointwithintherangeofpotentialvaluesthatwasmost

representativeoffairvalueundercurrentmarketconditionsforeachofthebonds,theCompanyaveraged

theinternalmodelvaluationsandtheindicationsobtainedfromthetwoindependentpricingsources,such

thattheweighted-averagerelianceoninternalmodelpricingforthebondsmodeledwas33%witha67%

averageweightingplacedonthevaluesprovidedbytheindependentsources.Significantunobservable

inputsusedintheCompany™smodelingoffairvalueforresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesareincluded

intheaccompanyingtableofsignificantunobservableinputstoLevel3measurements.TheCompany

concludeditsestimateoffairvalueforthe$1.1billionofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backed

securitieswasapproximately$1.0billion,whichreflectsamarketyieldbasedonreasonablylikelycashflows

of6.8%.TheCompanydeterminedthefairvalueofitsprivatelyissuedcommercialmortgage-backed

securitiesheldinitsavailable-for-saleportfoliousingquotedmarketpricesobtainedfromthirdparty

pricingserviceswithoutadjustment.Similartoprivately-issuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,the

marketforcommercialmortgage-backedsecuritieshasexperiencedsignificantdeclinesinthelevelof

marketactivity,resultingintheclassificationofsuchbondsasLevel3.
Includedincollateralizeddebtobligationsaresecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby
financialinstitutionsandotherentities.TheCompanycouldnotobtainpricingindicationsformanyof

thesesecuritiesfromitsindependentpricingsources.TheCompany,therefore,performedinternal

modelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofitsportfolioofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferred

securitiesatDecember31,2012and2011.Themodelingtechniquesincludedestimatingcashflowsusing

bond-specificassumptionsaboutfuturecollateraldefaultsandrelatedlossseverities.Theresultingcash

flowswerethendiscountedbyreferencetomarketyieldsobservedinthesingle-nametrustpreferred

securitiesmarket.Indeterminingamarketyieldapplicabletotheestimatedcashflows,amarginover

LIBOR,rangingfrom4%to11%withaweighted-averageof7%wasused.Significantunobservableinputs

usedinthedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizeddebtobligationsareincludedinthe

accompanyingtableofsignificantunobservableinputstoLevel3measurements.AtDecember31,2012,the

totalamortizedcostandfairvalueofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancial

institutionsandotherentitieswere$43millionand$62million,respectively,andatDecember31,2011

were$44millionand$53million,respectively.Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandsecurities

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentitiesconstitutedallofthe

available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasLevel3valuationsasofDecember31,2012and2011.
158TheCompanyensuresanappropriatecontrolframeworkisinplaceoverthevaluationprocessesand
techniquesusedforLevel3fairvaluemeasurements.Specifically,theCompanyattemptstoobtainthe

marketobservableinputsusedbythirdpartypricingsourcesonasampleofbondseachquarter.Analytical

proceduresareperformedtounderstandchangesinfairvaluefromperiodtoperiod.Internalpricing

modelsaresubjecttovalidationproceduresincludingtestingofmathematicalconstructs,reviewof

valuationmethodologyandsignificantassumptionsused.
Realestateloansheldforsale
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinfairvalueof

realestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsaleincludeschangesin

estimatedfairvalueduringthehedgeperiod.Typically,theCompanyattemptstohedgerealestateloans

heldforsalefromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Thefairvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldfor

saleisgenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsforcommitmentstosellreal

estateloanswithsimilarcharacteristicsand,accordingly,suchloanshavebeenclassifiedasaLevel2

valuation.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentsto

sellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,therefore,

arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvaluesofsuch

commitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsfor

commitmentstosellrealestateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.Thefair

valuationsofcommitmentstosellrealestateloansgenerallyresultinaLevel2classification.Theestimated

fairvalueofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareadjustedtoreflecttheCompany™s

anticipatedcommitmentexpirations.Theestimatedcommitmentexpirationsareconsideredsignificant

unobservableinputscontributingtotheLevel3classificationofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans

forsale.Significantunobservableinputsusedinthedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueofcommitments

tooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareincludedintheaccompanyingtableofsignificantunobservable

inputstoLevel3measurements.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto

modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefairvalueofitsinterestrateswapagreementsusing

externallydevelopedpricingmodelsbasedonmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuch

valuationsasLevel2.TheCompanyhasconsideredcounterpartycreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterest

rateswapassetsandhasconsidereditsowncreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterestrateswapliabilities.
159ThefollowingtablespresentassetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2012and2011measuredat
estimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis:
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2012Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
.............................$
488,96656,106432,860Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..................39,344Š39,344Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........20,901Š20,901Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
................3,371,041Š3,371,041Š
Privatelyissuedresidential
......................1,012,886ŠŠ1,012,886
Privatelyissuedcommercial
.....................11,000ŠŠ11,000
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.....................61,869ŠŠ61,869
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................111,950Š111,950Š
Equitysecurities
................................110,44698,36412,082Š
4,739,43798,3643,555,3181,085,755
Realestateloansheldforsale
........................1,387,491Š1,387,491Š
Otherassets(b)
...................................194,331Š146,27548,056
Totalassets
....................................$6,810,225154,4705,521,9441,133,811
Tradingaccountliabilities
..........................$
374,274Š374,274Š
Otherliabilities(b)
.................................10,592Š10,395197
Totalliabilities
..................................$
384,866Š384,669197
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2011Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
Tradingaccountassets
............................$
561,83453,165508,669Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................70,723Š70,723Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......40,269Š40,269Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............4,521,233Š4,521,233Š
Privatelyissuedresidential
.....................1,136,256ŠŠ1,136,256
Privatelyissuedcommercial
....................15,029ŠŠ15,029
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................52,500ŠŠ52,500
Otherdebtsecurities
............................176,845Š176,845Š
Equitysecurities
...............................215,705205,58710,118Š
6,228,560205,5874,819,1881,203,785
Realestateloansheldforsale
.......................371,437Š371,437Š
Otherassets(b)
..................................156,853Š148,8627,991
Totalassets
.................................$7,318,684258,7525,848,1561,211,776
Tradingaccountliabilities
..........................$
434,559Š434,559Š
Otherliabilities(b)
...............................6,126Š5,0581,068
Totalliabilities
...............................$
440,685Š439,6171,068
(a)TherewerenosignificanttransfersbetweenLevel1andLevel2ofthefairvaluehierarchyduringtheyearsended
December31,2012and2011.
(b)Comprisedpredominantlyofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement(Level2),
commitmentstosellrealestateloans(Level2)andcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsale

(Level3).
160ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2012wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedResidentialMortgage-backedSecuritiesPrivatelyIssuedCommercialMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherAssets
andOther
Liabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŒJanuary1,2012
.......................$1,136,256$15,029$52,500$6,923
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
.........................(42,467)(a)ŠŠ212,281(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
........110,309(e)4,283(e)12,214(e)Š
Settlements...................................(191,212)(8,312)(2,845)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
..............ŠŠŠ
(171,345)(d)BalanceŒDecember31,2012
....................$1,012,886$11,000$61,869$47,859
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)includedin
earningsrelatedtoassetsstillheldatDecember31,

2012......................................$
(42,467)(a)$Š$Š$47,859(b)
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2011wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedResidentialMortgage-backedSecuritiesPrivatelyIssuedCommercialMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŒJanuary1,2011
........................$1,435,561$22,407$110,756$2,244
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
..........................(64,919)(a)Š19,231(a)67,163(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
.........6,489(e)327(e)(272)(e)Š
Purchases.....................................ŠŠ
50,790Š
Sales.........................................ŠŠ
(124,874)Š
Settlements....................................(240,875)(7,705)(3,131)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
...............ŠŠŠ
(62,484)(d)BalanceŒDecember31,2011
.....................$1,136,256$15,029$52,500$6,923
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)includedin
earningsrelatedtoassetsstillheldatDecember31,

2011.......................................$
(64,919)(a)$Š$Š$6,902(b)
161ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2010wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedResidentialMortgage-backedSecuritiesPrivatelyIssuedCommercialMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherDebtSecuritiesOtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŒJanuary1,2010
................$2,064,904$25,166$115,346$420$(80)
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
..................(63,503)(a)Š(5,703)(a)Š95,661(b)
Includedinothercomprehensive
income...........................135,434(e)5,462(e)2,887(e)35(e)Š
Settlements...........................(346,026)(8,221)(1,774)ŠŠ
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
.......(355,248)(f)ŠŠ(455)(93,337)(d)
BalanceŒDecember31,2010
.............$1,435,561$22,407$110,756$Š$2,244
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)included
inearningsrelatedtoassetsstillheldat

December31,2010
...................$
(63,503)(a)$Š$(5,703)(a)$Š$2,153(b)
(a)Reportedasanother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeorasgain(loss)
onbankinvestmentsecurities.
(b)Reportedasmortgagebankingrevenuesintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeandincludesthefairvalueof
commitmentissuancesandexpirations.
(c)TheCompany™spolicyfortransfersbetweenfairvaluelevelsistorecognizethetransferasoftheactualdateofthe
eventorchangeincircumstancesthatcausedthetransfer.
(d)TransfersoutofLevel3consistofinterestratelockstransferredtoclosedloans.

(e)Reportedasnetunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecuritiesintheconsolidatedstatementofcomprehensiveincome.

(f)AsaresultoftheCompany™sadoptionofnewaccountingrulesgoverningtheconsolidationofvariableinterest
entities,effectiveJanuary1,2010theCompanyderecognized$355millionofavailable-for-saleinvestment

securitiespreviouslyclassifiedasLevel3measurements.
TheCompanyisrequired,onanonrecurringbasis,toadjustthecarryingvalueofcertainassetsor
providevaluationallowancesrelatedtocertainassetsusingfairvaluemeasurements.Themoresignificantof

thoseassetsfollow.
InvestmentSecuritiesHeldtoMaturity
During2012,2011and2010,other-than-temporarylossesof$5million,$12millionand$5million,

respectively,wererecordedrelatedtocertainsecurities.InaccordancewithGAAP,thecarryingvalueofsuch

securitieswasreducedtofairvalue,withestimatedcreditlossesrecognizedinearningsandanyremaining

unrealizedlossrecognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome.Thedeterminationoffairvalue

includeduseofexternalandinternalvaluationsourcesthat,asinthecaseofprivatelyissuedresidential

mortgage-backedsecurities,areweightedandaveragedwhenestimatingfairvalue.Duetothepresenceof

significantunobservableinputsthosevaluationsareclassifiedasLevel3.Theamortizedcost,fairvalueand

impactontheCompany™sfinancialstatementsofthemodelingdescribedhereinwerenotmaterial.
LoansLoansaregenerallynotrecordedatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.Periodically,theCompanyrecords

nonrecurringadjustmentstothecarryingvalueofloansbasedonfairvaluemeasurementsforpartial

charge-offsoftheuncollectibleportionsofthoseloans.Nonrecurringadjustmentsalsoincludecertain

impairmentamountsforcollateral-dependentloanswhenestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Such

amountsaregenerallybasedonthefairvalueoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingtheloanand,asa
162result,thecarryingvalueoftheloanlessthecalculatedvaluationamountdoesnotnecessarilyrepresentthe
fairvalueoftheloan.Realestatecollateralistypicallyvaluedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvalue

basedonrecentcomparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthe

marketplaceandtherelatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassified

asLevel2,unlesssignificantadjustmentshavebeenmadetothevaluationthatarenotreadilyobservableby

marketparticipants.Non-realestatecollateralsupportingcommercialloansgenerallyconsistsofbusiness

assetssuchasreceivables,inventoryandequipment.Fairvalueestimationsaretypicallydeterminedby

discountingrecordedvaluesofthoseassetstoreflectestimatednetrealizablevalueconsideringspecific

borrowerfactsandcircumstancesandtheexperienceofcreditpersonnelintheirdealingswithsimilar

borrowercollateralliquidations.Suchdiscountsweregenerallyintherangeof10%to85%atDecember31,

2012.Asthesediscountsarenotreadilyobservableandareconsideredsignificant,thevaluationshavebeen

classifiedasLevel3.Loanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$335millionat

December31,2012,($207millionand$128millionofwhichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,

respectively),$419millionatDecember31,2011($262millionand$157millionofwhichwereclassifiedas

Level2andLevel3,respectively),and$746millionatDecember31,2010($476millionand$270millionof

whichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,respectively).Changesinfairvaluerecognizedforpartial

charge-offsofloansandloanimpairmentreservesduringeachoftheyearsendedDecember31,2012,2011

and2010onloansheldattheendofeachofthoseyearsweredecreasesof$67million,$158millionand

$224million,respectively.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandaregenerallymeasuredatthelowerofcostorfairvaluelesscoststosell.Thefairvalueofthe

realpropertyisgenerallydeterminedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvaluebasedonrecent

comparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthemarketplace,andthe

relatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassifiedasLevel2.Assets

takeninforeclosureofdefaultedloanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$34millionand

$51millionatDecember31,2012andDecember31,2011,respectively.Changesinfairvaluerecognizedfor

foreclosedassetsheldbytheCompanyatDecember31,2012,2011and2010werenotmaterialduringeach

of2012,2011and2010.
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
In2011,theCompanyrecognizeda$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s

20%investmentinBLGandchargeditdowntoitsestimatedfairvalueof$115million.Thatimpairment

chargeisincludedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂIndeterminingthefairvalueofM&T™sinvestmentinBLG

atDecember31,2011,theCompanyprojectednofurthercommercialmortgageoriginationand

securitizationactivitiesbyBLG.BLG,however,isentitledtoreceive,ifandwhenmade,cashdistributions

fromaffiliates,aportionofwhichiscontractuallyrequiredtobedistributedtoM&T.Specifically,cashflows

relatedtomortgageassetsheldbyBLGanditsaffiliateswereestimatedusingvariousassumptionsonfuture

defaultandlossseveritiestoarriveattheexpectedamountofcashflowthatcouldbeavailablefor

distribution.AsofDecember31,2011theweighted-averageassumptionsofprojecteddefaultpercentageon

theunderlyingmortgageloancollateralsupportingthosemortgageassetswas31%andtheweighted-average

lossseverityassumptionwas75%.Withrespecttoprojectedvalueexpectedtobegeneratedbytheasset

managementandservicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates,M&Tdevelopedestimatesfromcompany-

providedforecastsoffinancialresultsandthroughdiscussionswiththeirseniormanagementpertainingto

longer-termprojectionsofgrowthinassetsundermanagementandassetservicingportfolios.M&T

considereddifferentscenariosofprojectedcashflowsthatcouldbegeneratedbytheassetmanagementand

servicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates.M&Tthendiscountedthevariousprojectionsusingdiscountrates

thatrangedfrom8.0%to12.5%thatweredeterminedbyreferencetoreturnsrequiredbyinvestorsin

similarbusinesses.ThedeterminationoffairvalueofM&T™s20%investmentinBLGisconsideredaLevel3

valuationduetotheunobservablenatureofkeyassumptions.Therewasnoother-than-temporary

impairmentchargerecognizedin2012or2010relatedtoM&T™sinvestmentinBLG.
163Significantunobservableinputstolevel3measurements
Thefollowingtablepresentsquantitativeinformationaboutsignificantunobservableinputsusedinthefair

valuemeasurementsforLevel3assetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2012:
FairValueat
December31,
2012ValuationTechniqueUnobservableInput/AssumptionsRange(Weighted-Average)Recurringfairvalue
measurementsPrivatelyissued
mortgageŒbacked
securities...........$1,023,886DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault1%-40%(19%)
Lossseverity32%-82%(51%)
Colateralizeddebt
obligations.........61,869DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault0%-65%(12%)
Lossseverity100%
Netotherassets
(liabilities)(a).......47,859Discountedcashflow
Commitmentexpirations0%-69%(20%)
(a)OtherLevel3assets(liabilities)consistofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans.
Sensitivityoffairvaluemeasurementstochangesinunobservableinputs
Anincrease(decrease)intheprobabilityofdefaultandlossseverityformortgage-backedsecuritiesand

collateralizeddebtobligationsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritieswouldgenerallyresultinalower(higher)

fairvaluemeasurement.
Anincrease(decrease)intheestimateofexpirationsforcommitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgage
loanswouldgenerallyresultinalower(higher)fairva
luemeasurement.Estimatedcommitmentexpirations
arederivedconsideringloantype,changesininterestratesandremaininglengthoftimeuntilclosing.
Disclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments
Withtheexceptionofmarketablesecurities,certainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsandone-to-four

familyresidentialmortgageloansoriginatedforsale,theCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsarenotreadily

marketableandmarketpricesdonotexist.TheCompany,inattemptingtocomplywiththeprovisionsof

GAAPthatrequiredisclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments,hasnotattemptedtomarketits

financialinstrumentstopotentialbuyers,ifanyexist.Sincenegotiatedpricesinilliquidmarketsdepend

greatlyuponthethenpresentmotivationsofthebuyerandseller,itisreasonabletoassumethatactualsales

pricescouldvarywidelyfromanyestimateoffairvaluemadewithoutthebenefitofnegotiations.

Additionally,changesinmarketinterestratescandramaticallyimpactthevalueoffinancialinstrumentsina

shortperiodoftime.Additionalinformationabouttheassumptionsandcalculationsutilizedfollows.
164Thecarryingamountsandestimatedfairvalueforfinancialinstrumentassets(liabilities)are
presentedinthefollowingtable:
December31,2012
CarryingAmountCalculatedEstimateLevel1
Level2
Level3
(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
.......$
1,986,615$1,986,615$1,895,423$91,192$Š
Interest-bearingdepositsat
banks......................129,945129,945Š129,945Š
Tradingaccountassets
..........488,966488,96656,106432,860Š
Investmentsecurities
...........6,074,3616,018,96898,3644,687,2111,233,393
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases...17,776,95317,554,562ŠŠ17,554,562

Commercialrealestateloans...25,993,79025,858,482Š199,99725,658,485

Residentialrealestateloans
....11,240,83711,381,319Š8,100,9153,280,404
Consumerloans
.............11,559,37711,504,799ŠŠ11,504,799
Allowanceforcreditlosses
.....(925,860)ŠŠŠŠ
Loansandleases,net
.......65,645,09766,299,162Š8,300,91257,998,250
Accruedinterestreceivable
.......222,897222,897Š222,897Š
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.....$(24,240,802)$(24,240,802)Š$(24,240,802)Š
SavingsdepositsandNOW
accounts...................(35,763,566)(35,763,566)Š(35,763,566)Š
Timedeposits
.................(4,562,366)(4,584,384)Š(4,584,384)Š
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office......................(1,044,519)(1,044,519)Š(1,044,519)Š
Short-termborrowings
.........(1,074,482)(1,074,482)Š(1,074,482)Š
Long-termborrowings
..........(4,607,758)(4,768,408)Š(4,768,408)Š
Accruedinterestpayable
........(54,281)(54,281)Š(54,281)Š
Tradingaccountliabilities
.......(374,274)(374,274)Š(374,274)Š
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginatereal
estateloansforsale
...........$
47,859$47,859Š$Š$47,859
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans......................(7,299)(7,299)Š(7,299)Š
Othercredit-related
commitments...............(119,464)(119,464)ŠŠ(119,464)
Interestrateswapagreementsused
forinterestraterisk

management................143,179143,179Š143,179Š
165December31,2011
CarryingAmountCalculatedEstimate(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
.......................................$
1,452,397$1,452,397
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
.................................154,960154,960
Tradingaccountassets
..........................................561,834561,834
Investmentsecurities
...........................................7,673,1547,608,008
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases
...................................15,734,43615,507,342
Commercialrealestateloans
...................................24,411,11424,024,585
Residentialrealestateloans
....................................7,923,1657,782,935
Consumerloans
.............................................12,027,29011,869,813
Allowanceforcreditlosses
.....................................(908,290)Š
Loansandleases,net
.......................................59,187,71559,184,675
Accruedinterestreceivable
......................................222,618222,618
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.....................................$(20,017,883)$(20,017,883)
SavingsdepositsandNOWaccounts
..............................(32,913,309)(32,913,309)
Timedeposits
.................................................(6,107,530)(6,133,806)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................................(355,927)(355,927)
Short-termborrowings
.........................................(782,082)(782,082)
Long-termborrowings
..........................................(6,686,226)(6,720,174)
Accruedinterestpayable
........................................(67,900)(67,900)
Tradingaccountliabilities
.......................................(434,559)(434,559)
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale
...................$
6,923$6,923
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans
..............................(3,498)(3,498)
Othercredit-relatedcommitments
................................(109,828)(109,828)
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
....147,302147,302
Thefollowingassumptions,methodsandcalculationswereusedindeterminingtheestimatedfair
valueoffinancialinstrumentsnotmeasuredatfairvalueintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Cashandcashequivalents,interest-bearingdepositsatbanks,short-termborrowings,accruedinterest
receivableandaccruedinterestpayable

Duetothenatureofcashandcashequivalentsandthenearmaturityofinterest-bearingdepositsatbanks,

short-termborrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterestpayable,theCompanyestimated

thatthecarryingamountofsuchinstrumentsapproximatedestimatedfairvalue.
Investmentsecurities
Estimatedfairvaluesofinvestmentsinreadilymarketablesecuritiesweregenerallybasedonquotedmarket

prices.Investmentsecuritiesthatwerenotreadilymarketablewereassignedamountsbasedonestimates

providedbyoutsidepartiesormodelingtechniquesthatreliedupondiscountedcalculationsofprojected

cashflowsor,inthecaseofotherinvestmentsecurities,whichincludecapitalstockoftheFederalReserve

BankofNewYorkandtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNewYork,atanamountequaltothecarrying

amount.Loansandleases
Ingeneral,discountratesusedtocalculatevaluesforloanproductswerebasedontheCompany™spricingat

therespectiveperiodend.Ahigherdiscountratewasassumedwithrespecttoestimatedcashflows
166associatedwithnonaccrualloans.Projectedloancashflowswereadjustedforestimatedcreditlosses.
However,suchestimatesmadebytheCompanymaynotbeindicativeofassumptionsandadjustmentsthat

apurchaseroftheCompany™sloansandleaseswouldseek.
DepositsPursuanttoGAAP,theestimatedfairvalueascribedtononinterest-bearingdeposits,savingsdepositsand

NOWaccountsmustbeestablishedatcarryingvaluebecauseofthecustomers™abilitytowithdrawfunds

immediately.Timedepositaccountsarerequiredtoberevaluedbaseduponprevailingmarketinterestrates

forsimilarmaturityinstruments.Asaresult,amountsassignedtotimedepositswerebasedondiscounted

cashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesbasedontheCompany™spricingatthe

respectivedatefordepositswithcomparableremainingtermstomaturity.
TheCompanybelievesthatdepositaccountshaveavaluegreaterthanthatprescribedbyGAAP.The
Companyfeels,however,thatthevalueassociatedwiththesedepositsisgreatlyinfluencedbycharacteristics

ofthebuyer,suchastheabilitytoreducethecostsofservicingthedepositsanddepositattritionwhichoften

occursfollowinganacquisition.
Long-termborrowings
Theamountsassignedtolong-termborrowingswerebasedonquotedmarketprices,whenavailable,or

werebasedondiscountedcashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesforborrowingsof

similartermsandcreditrisk.
Othercommitmentsandcontingencies
Asdescribedinnote21,inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilitiesare
outstanding,suchasloancommitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcredit.TheCompany™spricingofsuch

financialinstrumentsisbasedlargelyoncreditqualityandrelationship,probabilityoffundingandother

requirements.Loancommitmentsoftenhavefixedexpirationdatesandcontainterminationandotherclauses

whichprovideforrelieffromfundingintheeventofsignificantdeteriorationinthecreditqualityofthe

customer.TheratesandtermsoftheCompany™sloancommitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcreditare

competitivewithotherfinancialinstitutionsoperatinginmarketsservedbytheCompany.TheCompanybelieves

thatthecarryingamounts,whichareincludedinotherliabilities,arereasonableestimatesofthefairvalueofthese

financialinstruments.
TheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheestimatedinformationpresentedhereinisrepresentativeof
theearningspowerorvalueoftheCompany.Theprecedinganalysis,whichisinherentlylimitedin

depictingfairvalue,alsodoesnotconsideranyvalueassociatedwithexistingcustomerrelationshipsnorthe

abilityoftheCompanytocreatevaluethroughloanorigination,depositgatheringorfeegenerating

activities.Manyoftheestimatespresentedhereinarebasedupontheuseofhighlysubjectiveinformationand
assumptionsand,accordingly,theresultsmaynotbeprecise.Managementbelievesthatfairvalueestimates

maynotbecomparablebetweenfinancialinstitutionsduetothewiderangeofpermittedvaluation

techniquesandnumerousestimateswhichmustbemade.Furthermore,becausethedisclosedfairvalue

amountswereestimatedasofthebalancesheetdate,theamountsactuallyrealizedorpaiduponmaturityor

settlementofthevariousfinancialinstrumentscouldbesignificantlydifferent.
16721.Commitmentsandcontingencies
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilitiesareoutstanding.The
followingtablepresentstheCompany™ssignificantcommitments.Certainofthesecommitmentsarenot

includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
Commitmentstoextendcredit
Homeequitylinesofcredit
........................................$
6,282,615$6,393,332
Commercialrealestateloanstobesold
..............................139,929177,982
Othercommercialrealestateandconstruction
........................3,819,3422,818,071
Residentialrealestateloanstobesold
...............................1,550,441182,474
Otherresidentialrealestate
........................................445,268129,466
Commercialandother
...........................................10,070,71110,442,754
Standbylettersofcredit
.............................................4,025,3293,930,271
Commerciallettersofcredit
.........................................53,20144,981
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontracts
......................2,120,3611,903,254
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans
.................................2,625,408635,899
Commitmentstoextendcreditareagreementstolendtocustomers,generallyhavingfixed
expirationdatesorotherterminationclausesthatmayrequirepaymentofafee.Standbyandcommercial

lettersofcreditareconditionalcommitmentsissuedtoguaranteetheperformanceofacustomertoathird

party.Standbylettersofcreditgenerallyarecontingentuponthefailureofthecustomertoperform

accordingtothetermsoftheunderlyingcontractwiththethirdparty,whereascommerciallettersofcredit

areissuedtofacilitatecommerceandtypicallyresultinthecommitmentbeingfundedwhentheunderlying

transactionisconsummatedbetweenthecustomerandathirdparty.Thecreditriskassociatedwith

commitmentstoextendcreditandstandbyandcommerciallettersofcreditisessentiallythesameasthat

involvedwithextendingloanstocustomersandissubjecttonormalcreditpolicies.Collateralmaybe

obtainedbasedonmanagement™sassessmentofthecustomer™screditworthiness.
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontractsareoftentimessimilartostandbylettersofcredit
andincludemandatorypurchaseagreementsissuedtoensurethatcustomerobligationsarefulfilled,

recourseobligationsassociatedwithsoldloans,andotherguaranteesofcustomerperformanceor

compliancewithdesignatedrulesandregulations.Includedinfinancialguaranteesandindemnification

contractsareloanprincipalamountssoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sinvolvementin

theFannieMaeDUSprogram.TheCompany™smaximumcreditriskforrecourseassociatedwithloanssold

underthisprogramtotaledapproximately$2.0billionand$1.8billionatDecember31,2012and2011,

respectively.Sincemanyloancommitments,standbylettersofcredit,andguaranteesandindemnification
contractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenotnecessarily

indicativeoffuturecashflows.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgeexposuretochangesinthefair
valueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredderivativesandalongwith

commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsalearegenerallyrecordedintheconsolidated

balancesheetatestimatedfairmarketvalue.
168TheCompanyoccupiescertainbankingofficesandusescertainequipmentundernoncancellable
operatingleaseagreementsexpiringatvariousdatesoverthenext26years.Minimumleasepaymentsunder

noncancellableoperatingleasesaresummarizedinthefollowingtable:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2013.......................................................................$
76,7722014.......................................................................77,6572015.......................................................................67,0722016.......................................................................53,7592017.......................................................................42,045Lateryears
...................................................................142,520$459,825TheCompanyhasanagreementwiththeBaltimoreRavensoftheNationalFootballLeaguewhereby
theCompanyobtainedthenamingrightstoafootballstadiuminBaltimore,Maryland.Underthe

agreement,theCompanyisobligatedtopay$5millionin2013and$6millionperyearfrom2014through

2017.TheCompanyreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbyconsumerloan
customers.TheCompanyalsoentersintoreinsurancecontractswiththirdpartyinsurancecompanieswho

insureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™spaymentdefaultinconnectionwithcertainmortgageloans

originatedbytheCompany.Whenprovidingreinsurancecoverage,theCompanyreceivesapremiumin

exchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofloss.Theoutstandingloanprincipalbalances

reinsuredbytheCompanywereapproximately$67millionatDecember31,2012.Assetsofsubsidiaries

providingreinsurancethatareavailabletosatisfyclaimstotaledapproximately$41millionatDecember31,

2012.Theamountsnotedabovearenotnecessarilyindicativeoflosseswhichmayultimatelybeincurred.

Suchlossesareexpectedtobesubstantiallylessbecausemostloansarerepaidbyborrowersinaccordance

withtheoriginalloanterms.Managementbelievesthatanyreinsurancelossesthatmaybepayablebythe

CompanywillnotbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloans
thatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.

Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormay

repurchasecertainloans.TheCompanyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesbyanestimatefor

lossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloanpurchasers.Theamountofthosechargesisbasedonthevolumeof

loanssold,thelevelofreimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthat

maybeassociatedwithpreviouslysoldloans.AtDecember31,2012,managementbelievesthatanyfurther

liabilityarisingoutoftheCompany™sobligationtoloanpurchasersisnotmaterialtotheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialposition.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingand
threatenedlegalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Management,after

consultationwithlegalcounsel,doesnotanticipatethattheaggregateultimateliabilityarisingoutof

litigationpendingorthreatenedagainstM&ToritssubsidiarieswillbematerialtotheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialposition.Onanon-goingbasistheCompanyassessesitsliabilitiesandcontingencies

inconnectionwithsuchlegalproceedings.ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywill

incurlossesandtheamountsofthelossescanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpense

andcorrespondingliabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatened

litigationcouldresultinexposureinexcessofthatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrently

estimable.Althoughnotconsideredprobable,therangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersinthe

aggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,wasbetween$0and$40million.AlthoughtheCompany

doesnotbelievethattheoutcomeofpendinglitigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidated

financialposition,itcannotruleoutthepossibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidated

resultsofoperationsforaparticularreportingperiodinthefuture.
16922.Segmentinformation
ReportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbasedupontheCompany™sinternalprofitabilityreporting
system,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunitshavebeencombined

forsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsandservices,thetypeof

customerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportablesegmentsare

BusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,Residential

MortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentshasbeencompiledutilizingtheaccounting
policiesdescribedinnote1withcertainexceptions.Themoresignificantoftheseexceptionsaredescribed

herein.TheCompanyallocatesinterestincomeorinterestexpenseusingamethodologythatchargesusers

offunds(assets)interestexpenseandcreditsprovidersoffunds(liabilities)withincomebasedonthe

maturity,prepaymentand/orrepricingcharacteristicsoftheassetsandliabilities.Theneteffectofthis

allocationisrecordedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisallocatedtosegmentsinan

amountbasedlargelyonactualnetcharge-offsincurredbythesegmentduringtheperiodplusorminusan

amountnecessarytoadjustthesegment™sallowanceforcreditlossesduetochangesinloanbalances.In

contrast,theleveloftheconsolidatedprovisionforcreditlossesisdeterminedusingthemethodologies

describedinnotes1and5.Indirectfixedandvariableexpensesincurredbycertaincentralizedsupportareas

areallocatedtosegmentsbasedonactualusage(forexample,volumemeasurements)andothercriteria.

Certaintypesofadministrativeexpensesandbankwideexpenseaccruals(includingamortizationofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsassociatedwithacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions)aregenerallynot

allocatedtosegments.IncometaxesareallocatedtosegmentsbasedontheCompany™smarginalstatutory

taxrateadjustedforanytax-exemptincomeornon-deductibleexpenses.Equityisallocatedtothesegments

basedonregulatorycapitalrequirementsandinproportiontoanassessmentoftheinherentrisksassociated

withthebusinessofthesegment(includinginterest,creditandoperatingrisk).
Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocessesutilizedincompilingsegmentfinancial
informationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidance

similartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentresultsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilar

informationreportedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureor

allocationmethodologiesandproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.

InformationabouttheCompany™ssegmentsispresentedintheaccompanyingtable.Incomestatement

amountsareinthousandsofdollars.Balancesheetamountsareinmillionsofdollars.
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2012,2011and2010
BusinessBanking
CommercialBanking
CommercialRealEstate
DiscretionaryPortfolio
201220112010201220112010201220112010201220112010Netinterestincome(a)
...............$347,067$334,811$315,407$753,678$655,407$582,231$531,398$467,683$384,147$66,303$63,030$23,347
Noninterestincome
..................103,28395,42995,443253,808249,150217,368133,12099,40985,200(76,113)98,770(34,383)
450,350430,240410,8501,007,486904,557799,599664,518567,092469,347(9,810)161,800(11,036)
Provisionforcreditlosses
.............22,24545,68974,44315,78129,82347,6754,23858,47445,78144,30559,30955,810
Amortizationofcoredepositandother
intangibleassets
...................ŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Depreciationandotheramortization
....122140276567553552
11,0049,0547,3392,0652,8593,733
Othernoninterestexpense
............179,428177,172169,878262,820248,428219,471190,879154,042124,67431,00632,26226,256
Income(loss)beforetaxes
.............248,555207,239166,253728,318625,753531,901458,397345,522291,553(87,186)67,370(96,835)
Incometaxexpense(benefit)
..........101,48484,53267,687296,894256,311217,734149,321105,70988,466(54,071)7,975(58,269)
Netincome(loss)
...................$147,071$122,707$98,566$431,424$369,442$314,167$309,076$239,813$203,087$(33,115)$59,395$(38,566)
Averagetotalassets(inmillions)
........$
4,909$5,192$4,843$19,946$17,650$15,461$16,437$15,025$13,194$16,583$14,170$14,690
Capitalexpenditures(inmillions)
......$Š$Š$1$Š$Š$3$Š$Š$1$Š$Š$Š
170FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2012,2011and2010
ResidentialMortgage
Banking
RetailBanking
AllOther
Total201220112010201220112010201220112010201220112010Netinterestincome(a).........$78,058$63,951$71,599$
902,906$851,332$839,828$(80,894)$(46,458)$
50,967$2,598,516$2
,389,756$2,267,526
Noninterestincome...........
402,211184,249195,540349,571366,
042380,015501,390489,863168,917
1,667,2701,582,9121,108,100
480,269248,200267,1391,252,4771,
217,3741,219,843420,496443,405219,
8844,265,7863,
972,6683,375,626
Provisionforcreditlosses......17,16936,37549,11095,345
101,679109,9784,917(61,349)
(14,797)204,000270,000368,000
Amortizationofcoredepositand
otherintangibleassets.......ŠŠŠŠŠŠ60,63161,61758,10360,63161,61758,103
Depreciationandother
amortization..............46,90244,34946,17132,73433,71331,35050,53645,49534,838
143,930136,163124,259
Othernoninterestexpense......
195,604151,945160,131751,916744,
905698,540693,046771,534333,525
2,304,6992,280,2881,732,475
Income(loss)beforetaxes......
220,59415,53111,727372,482337,077
379,975(388,634)(373,892)(191,
785)1,552,5261,
224,6001,092,789
Incometaxexpense(benefit)....85,6712,403587
151,616137,161154,680(207,887)(228,
970)(114,257)523,028365,121356,628
Netincome(loss)............$
134,923$13,128$11,140$220,866$
199,916$225,295$(180,747)$(144,922)$(
77,528)$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Averagetotalassets(in
millions).................$2,451$1,958$2,217$11,705$11,940$12,079$7,952$8,042$5,896$79,983$73,977$68,380
Capitalexpenditures(in
millions).................$1$Š$1$15$25$33$76$45$31$92$70$70
(a)Netinterestincomeisthedifferencebetweenactualtaxable-equivalentinterestearnedonassetsandinterest
paidonliabilitiesbyasegmentandafundingcharge(credit)basedontheCompany™sinternalfunds

transferpricingmethodology.Segmentsarechargedacosttofundanyassets(e.g.loans)andarepaida

fundingcreditforanyfundsprovided(e.g.deposits).Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentaggregated

$26,391,000in2012,$25,876,000in2011and$24,023,000in2010andiseliminatedinﬁAllOtherﬂnet

interestincomeandincometaxexpense(benefit).
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesdeposit,lending,cashmanagementandotherfinancial
servicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionalsthroughtheCompany™sbankingofficenetworkandseveral

otherdeliverychannels,includingbusinessbankingcenters,telephonebanking,Internetbankingand

automatedtellermachines.TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsand

bankingservicestomiddle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsthe

Companyserves.Amongtheservicesprovidedbythissegmentarecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersof

credit,depositproductsandcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovides

creditserviceswhicharesecuredbyvarioustypesofmultifamilyresidentialandcommercialrealestateand

depositservicestoitscustomers.Activitiesofthissegmentincludetheorigination,salesandservicingof

commercialrealestateloans.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludessecurities,residentialmortgage

loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdepositand

interestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsbranchdeposits.Thissegmentalso

providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesand

servicesresidentialmortgageloansforconsumersandsellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondary

markettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegment.Thesegmentperiodicallypurchasesservicing

rightstoloansthathavebeenoriginatedbyotherentities.Thissegmentalsooriginatedloanstodevelopers

ofresidentialrealestateproperties.ResidentialmortgageloansheldforsaleareincludedintheResidential

MortgageBankingsegment.TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthrough

severaldeliverychannelsthatincludebankingoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingand

Internetbanking.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryincludesotheroperatingactivitiesoftheCompanythatarenot

directlyattributabletothereportedsegments;thedifferencebetweentheprovisionforcreditlossesandthe

calculatedprovisionallocatedtothereportablesegments;goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangible

assetsresultingfromacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions;merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfrom

acquisitions;thenetimpactoftheCompany™sinternalfundstransferpricingmethodology;eliminationsof

transactionsbetweenreportablesegments;certainnonrecurringtransactions;theresidualeffectsof

unallocatedsupportsystemsandgeneralandadministrativeexpenses;andtheimpactofinterestraterisk
171managementstrategies.Theamountofintersegmentactivityeliminatedinarrivingatconsolidatedtotals
wasincludedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
Revenues...........................................$(71,452)$(64,239)$(41,508)
Expenses...........................................(17,313)(14,146)(15,527)
Incometaxes(benefit)
................................(22,029)(20,383)(10,572)
Netincome(loss)
....................................(32,110)(29,710)(15,409)
TheCompanyconductssubstantiallyallofitsoperationsintheUnitedStates.Thereareno
transactionswithasinglecustomerthatintheaggregateresultinrevenuesthatexceedtenpercentof

consolidatedtotalrevenues.
23.Regulatorymatters
PaymentofdividendsbyM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesisrestrictedbyvariouslegalandregulatory

limitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbytheamountofearningsofthe

bankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandtheprecedingtwoyears.Forpurposesofthistest,at

December31,2012,approximately$944millionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&Tfrom

bankingsubsidiaries.Additionally,theFederalReserveBoardrequiresbankholdingcompanieswith$50

billionormoreoftotalconsolidatedassetstosubmitannualcapitalplans.Suchbankholdingcompanies

maypaydividendsandrepurchasestockonlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanwhichtheFederalReserve

Boardhasnotobjectedto.
BankingregulationsprohibitextensionsofcreditbythesubsidiarybankstoM&Tunless
appropriatelysecuredbyassets.Securitiesofaffiliatesarenoteligibleascollateralforthispurpose.
Thebanksubsidiariesarerequiredtomaintainnoninterest-earningreservesagainstcertaindeposit
liabilities.DuringthemaintenanceperiodsthatincludedDecember31,2012and2011,cashandduefrom

banksincludedadailyaverageof$604,789,000and$382,489,000,respectively,forsuchpurpose.
Federalregulatorshaveadoptedcapitaladequacyguidelinesforbankholdingcompaniesandbanks.
Failuretomeetminimumcapitalrequirementscanresultincertainmandatory,andpossiblyadditional

discretionary,actionsbyregulatorsthat,ifundertaken,couldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™s

financialstatements.Underthecapitaladequacyguidelines,theso-calledﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁTotalcapitalﬂ

asapercentageofrisk-weightedassetsandcertainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsmustbeatleast

4%and8%,respectively.Inadditiontotheserisk-basedmeasures,regulatorsalsorequirebanking

institutionsthatmeetcertainqualitativecriteriatomaintainaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioofﬁTier1capitalﬂ

toaveragetotalassets,adjustedforgoodwillandcertainotheritems,ofatleast3%tobeconsidered

adequatelycapitalized.AsofDecember31,2012,M&Tandeachofitsbankingsubsidiariesexceededall

applicablecapitaladequacyrequirements.Tobeconsideredﬁwellcapitalized,ﬂundertheregulatory

frameworkforpromptcorrectiveaction,abankinginstitutionmustmaintainTier1risk-basedcapital,total

risk-basedcapitalandleverageratiosofatleast6%,10%and5%,respectively.
172ThecapitalratiosandamountsoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,2012
and2011arepresentedbelow:
M&T(Consolidated)M&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Dollarsinthousands)
December31,2012:
Tier1capital
Amount.............................................$
7,810,196$6,767,774$405,469
Ratio(a)..............................................10.22%8.92%61.02%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................3,057,0933,034,18426,580
Totalcapital
Amount.............................................10,230,3028,981,931410,873
Ratio(a)..............................................13.39%11.84%61.83%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................6,114,1866,068,36753,160
LeverageAmount.............................................7,810,1966,767,774405,469
Ratio(c)..............................................10.07%8.84%21.62%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................2,327,1222,297,90256,275
December31,2011:

Tier1capital
Amount.............................................$
6,926,218$6,283,825$393,360
Ratio(a)..............................................9.67%8.87%71.89%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................2,864,0022,832,55821,887
Totalcapital
Amount.............................................9,493,1248,587,360399,177
Ratio(a)..............................................13.26%12.13%72.95%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................5,728,0055,665,11643,774
LeverageAmount.............................................6,926,2186,283,825393,360
Ratio(c)..............................................9.28%8.54%19.20%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................2,239,6392,206,49861,478
(a)Theratioofcapitaltorisk-weightedassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
(b)Minimumamountofcapitaltobeconsideredadequatelycapitalized,asdefinedbyregulation.

(c)Theratioofcapitaltoaverageassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
24.RelationshipwithBayviewLendingGroupLLCandBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.
M&Tholdsa20%interestinBLG,aprivately-heldcommercialmortgagecompany.M&Trecognizes
incomeorlossfromBLGusingtheequitymethodofaccounting.In2011,theCompanyrecognizeda$79

millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoitsinvestmentinBLGthatisincludedinﬁother

costsofoperations.ﬂThecarryingvalueofthatinvestmentwas$93millionatDecember31,2012.Further

informationconcerningtheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeisprovidedinnote20.
BayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.(togetherwithitsaffiliates,ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ),aprivately-held
specialtymortgagefinancecompany,isBLG™smajorityinvestor.Inadditiontotheircommoninvestmentin

BLG,theCompanyandBayviewFinancialconductotherbusinessactivitieswitheachother.TheCompany

hasobtainedloanservicingrightsforsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansfromBLGandBayview

Financialhavingoutstandingprincipalbalancesof$3.8billionand$4.4billionatDecember31,2012and

2011,respectively.Amountsrecordedascapitalizedservicingassetsforsuchloanstotaled$8millionat
173December31,2012and$16millionatDecember31,2011.Inaddition,capitalizedservicingrightsat
December31,2012and2011alsoincluded$2millionand$5million,respectively,forservicingrightsthat

wereobtainedfromBayviewFinancialrelatedtoresidentialmortgageloanswithoutstandingprincipal

balancesof$2.7billionand$3.1billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Revenuesfrom

servicingresidentialandsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansobtainedfromBLGandBayview

Financialwere$35million,$41millionand$46millionduring2012,2011and2010,respectively.The

Companysub-servicesresidentialmortgageloansforBayviewFinancialhavingoutstandingprincipal

balancestotaling$11.4billionand$13.1billionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Revenues

earnedforsub-servicingloansforBayviewFinancialwere$9millionin2012.Revenuesearnedforsub-

servicingresidentialmortgageloansforBayviewFinancialwerenotsignificantin2011or2010.Inaddition,

theCompanyheld$11millionand$15millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively,of

collateralizedmortgageobligationsinitsavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliothatwere

securitizedbyBayviewFinancial.Finally,theCompanyheld$242millionand$269millionofsimilar

investmentsecuritiesinitsheld-to-maturityportfolioatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.
25.Parentcompanyfinancialstatements
CondensedBalanceSheet
December31
20122011(Inthousands)
AssetsCashinsubsidiarybank
.............................................$
4,774$3,798
Duefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
Money-marketsavings
...........................................714,677645,330
Currentincometaxreceivable
.....................................1,835Š
Totalduefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
......................716,512645,330
Investmentsinconsolidatedsubsidiaries
Banksandbankholdingcompany
..................................10,495,5579,929,758
Other.........................................................16,34416,025
Investmentsinunconsolidatedsubsidiaries(note19)
.....................33,91634,091
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
............................93,489115,000
Otherassets
......................................................83,97582,358
Totalassets
...................................................$11,444,567$10,826,360
LiabilitiesDuetoconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
.................................$213$30
Accruedexpensesandotherliabilities
.................................60,61975,828
Long-termborrowings
.............................................1,181,1421,479,293
Totalliabilities
................................................1,241,9741,555,151
Shareholders™equity
...............................................10,202,5939,271,209
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...........................$11,444,567$10,826,360
174CondensedStatementofIncome
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
IncomeDividendsfromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
.................$
700,000$715,000$500,000
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
..............(21,511)(24,231)(25,768)
Otherincome
............................................8,75567,829(5,435)
Totalincome
...........................................687,244758,598468,797
ExpenseInterestonlong-termborrowings
............................82,28690,95991,073
Otherexpense(a)
.........................................19,22687,3687,447
Totalexpense
..........................................101,512178,32798,520
Incomebeforeincometaxesandequityinundistributedincomeof
subsidiaries............................................585,732580,271370,277
Incometaxcredits
.........................................43,14950,46048,416
Incomebeforeequityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
........628,881630,731418,693
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
Netincomeofsubsidiaries
..................................1,100,617943,748817,468
Less:dividendsreceived
....................................(700,000)(715,000)(500,000)
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
..................400,617228,748317,468
Netincome
...............................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic.................................................$
7.57$6.37$5.72
Diluted...............................................7.546.355.69
(a)In2011includes$79millionwrite-downofInvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC.
175CondensedStatementofCashFlows
YearEndedDecember31
201220112010(Inthousands)
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
..............................................$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedby
operatingactivities
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
................(400,617)(228,748)(317,468)
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
........................1,724(10,349)2,237
Assetwrite-downs
.......................................Š
79,012Š
Netchangeinaccruedincomeandexpense
..................6,79844,33643,567
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
....................637,403743,730464,497
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
....................411
1,9872,591
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
...............Š
4,4001,150
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
............................ŠŠ
(2,225)PurchaseofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
.......Š
(330,000)Š
Other,net
...............................................324
2,8331,033
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities
.............735
(320,780)2,549
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
..........................(300,000)ŠŠ
DividendspaidŠcommon
.................................(357,717)(350,129)(335,303)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
.................................(53,450)(48,203)(40,225)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
.....................Š
495,000Š
Redemptionofpreferredstock
..............................Š
(370,000)Š
Other,net
...............................................143,35216,38663,122
Netcashusedbyfinancingactivities
......................(567,815)(256,946)(312,406)
Netincreaseincashandcashequivalents
......................70,323166,004154,640
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
.................649,128483,124328,484
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
.......................$
719,451$649,128$483,124
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
.............................$
1,970$2,082$1,581
Interestpaidduringtheyear
................................80,09087,18487,456
Incometaxesreceivedduringtheyear
.........................21,87857,96450,882
176Item9.
ChangesInandDisagreementsWithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancialDisclosure.
None.
Item9A.
ControlsandProcedures.
(a)Evaluationofdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures.Basedupontheirevaluationoftheeffectiveness
ofM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActrules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e)),

RobertG.Wilmers,ChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer,andRenéF.Jones,ExecutiveVice

PresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer,concludedthatM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedureswere

effectiveasofDecember31,2012.
(b)Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.Includedunderthe
headingﬁReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReporton

Form10-K.
(c)Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm.IncludedundertheheadingﬁReport
ofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirmﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
(d)Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.M&Tregularlyassessestheadequacyofits
internalcontroloverfinancialreportingandenhancesitscontrolsinresponsetointernalcontrol

assessmentsandinternalandexternalauditandregulatoryrecommendations.Nochangesininternal

controloverfinancialreportinghavebeenidentifiedinconnectionwiththeevaluationofdisclosure

controlsandproceduresduringthequarterendedDecember31,2012thathavemateriallyaffected,orare

reasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,M&T™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Item9B.
OtherInformation.
None.PARTIII
Item10.
Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sdirectorsisincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁNOMINEES
FORDIRECTORﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2013AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2013.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedunderthecaptionﬁExecutive
OfficersoftheRegistrantﬂcontainedinPartIofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
DisclosureofcompliancewithSection16(a)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,by
theRegistrant™sdirectorsandexecutiveofficers,andpersonswhoarethebeneficialownersofmorethan

10%oftheRegistrant™scommonstock,isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSection16(a)Beneficial

OwnershipReportingComplianceﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2013

AnnualMeetingofShareholderswhichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononor

aboutMarch6,2013.
TheotherinformationrequiredbyItem10isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptions
ﬁCORPORATEGOVERNANCEOFM&TBANKCORPORATION,ﬂﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,

COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂandﬁCODESOFETHICSﬂcontainedinthe

Registrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2013AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwith

theSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2013.
Item11.
ExecutiveCompensation.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSAND
DIRECTORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2013AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2013.
177Item12.
SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementandRelatedShareholder
Matters.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁPRINCIPALBENEFICIALOWNERSOFSHARESﬂandﬁSTOCK
OWNERSHIPBYDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVEOFFICERSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitive

ProxyStatementforits2013AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesand

ExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2013.
TheinformationrequiredbythisitemconcerningEquityCompensationPlaninformationis
incorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSAND

DIRECTORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2013AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2013.
Item13.
CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁTRANSACTIONSWITHDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVE
OFFICERSﬂandﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂ

containedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2013AnnualMeetingofShareholders,which

willbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2013.
Item14.
PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁPROPOSALTORATIFYTHEAPPOINTMENTOF
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERSLLPASTHEINDEPENDENTREGISTEREDPUBLICACCOUNTING

FIRMOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits

2013AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionon

oraboutMarch6,2013.
PARTIV
Item15.
ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules.
(a)FinancialstatementsandfinancialstatementschedulesfiledaspartofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.SeePartII,Item8.ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂFinancialstatement

schedulesarenotrequiredorareinapplicable,andthereforehavebeenomitted.
(b)ExhibitsrequiredbyItem601ofRegulationS-K.TheexhibitslistedontheExhibitIndexofthis
AnnualReportonForm10-Khavebeenpreviouslyfiled,arefiledherewithorareincorporatedhereinby

referencetootherfilings.
(c)Additionalfinancialstatementschedules.None.
178SignaturesPursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,theRegistrant
hasdulycausedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntodulyauthorized,onthe

22nddayofFebruary,2013.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
By:/S/ROBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardand
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensigned
belowbythefollowingpersonsonbehalfoftheRegistrantandinthecapacitiesandonthedatesindicated.
SignatureTitleDatePrincipalExecutiveOfficer:
/s/R
OBERTG.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardFebruary22,2013
RobertG.Wilmers
andChiefExecutiveOfficer
PrincipalFinancialOfficer:
/s/R
ENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentFebruary22,2013
RenéF.Jones
andChiefFinancialOfficer
PrincipalAccountingOfficer:
/s/M
ICHAELR.S
PYCHALASeniorVicePresidentandFebruary22,2013
MichaelR.Spychala
ControllerAmajorityoftheboardofdirectors:
/s/B
RENT
D.B
AIRDFebruary22,2013
BrentD.Baird
/s/C.A
NGELABONTEMPOFebruary22,2013
C.AngelaBontempo
/s/R
OBERTT.B
RADY
February22,2013
RobertT.Brady
/s/T.J
EFFERSONCUNNINGHAMIIIFebruary22,2013
T.JeffersonCunninghamIII
/s/M
ARKJ.C
ZARNECKI
February22,2013
MarkJ.Czarnecki
/s/G
ARYN.G
EISELFebruary22,2013
GaryN.Geisel
/s/JohnD.H
AWKE,JR.February22,2013
JohnD.Hawke,Jr.
179/s/P
ATRICKW.E.H
ODGSONFebruary22,2013
PatrickW.E.Hodgson
/s/R
ICHARDG.K
INGFebruary22,2013
RichardG.King
/s/J
ORGEG.P
EREIRAFebruary22,2013
JorgeG.Pereira
/s/M
ICHAELP.P
INTOFebruary22,2013
MichaelP.Pinto
/s/M
ELINDAR.R
ICHFebruary22,2013
MelindaR.Rich
/s/R
OBERTE.S
ADLER,JR.February22,2013
RobertE.Sadler,Jr.
/s/H
ERBERTL.W
ASHINGTONFebruary22,2013
HerbertL.Washington
/s/R
OBERTG.W
ILMERSFebruary22,2013
RobertG.Wilmers
180EXHIBITINDEX
2.1AgreementandPlanofMerger,datedasofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBank
Corporation,HudsonCityBancorp,Inc.andWilmingtonTrustCorporation.Incorporated

byreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm8-KdatedAugust31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
3.1RestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporationdatedNovember18,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.2AmendedandRestatedBylawsofM&TBankCorporation,effectiveNovember16,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.3CertificateofAmendmenttoCertificateofIncorporationwithrespecttoPerpetual6.875%
Non-CumulativePreferredStock,SeriesD,datedMay26,2011(incorporatedbyreference

toExhibit99.2ofM&TBankCorporation™sForm8-KdatedMay26,2011).
4.1Therearenoinstrumentswithrespecttolong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationandits
subsidiariesthatinvolvesecuritiesauthorizedundertheinstrumentinanamountexceeding

10percentofthetotalassetsofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesona

consolidatedbasis.M&TBankCorporationagreestoprovidetheSECwithacopyof

instrumentsdefiningtherightsofholdersoflong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationand

itssubsidiariesonrequest.
4.2WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockdatedasof
March26,2010.Filedherewith.
4.3WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockeffectiveMay16,2011.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1totheForm8-KdatedMay19,2011(FileNo.1-9861).
4.4WarrantAgreement(includingFormofWarrant),datedasofDecember11,2012,between
M&TBankCorporationandRegistrarandTransferCompany.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit4.1totheForm8-AdatedDecember12,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
10.1CreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationand
Citibank,N.A.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm10-Kfortheyear

endedDecember31,2000(FileNo.1-9861).
10.2AmendmentNo.1,datedDecember9,2003,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(File

No.1-9861).
10.3AmendmentNo.2,datedJanuary30,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2008(File

No.1-9861).
10.4AmendmentNo.3,datedDecember4,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.4totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2009

(FileNo.1-9861).
10.5AmendmentNo.4,datedDecember3,2010,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.5totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2010

(FileNo.1-9861).
10.6AmendmentNo.5,datedNovember21,2011,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.6totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2011

(FileNo.1-9861).
10.7AmendmentNo.6,datedNovember26,2012,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Filedherewith.
10.8M&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoAppendixA
totheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2001(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.9M&TBankCorporationAnnualExecutiveIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
ExhibitNo.10.3totheForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.10SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreementbetweenManufacturersandTraders
TrustCompanyandBrianE.HickeydatedasofJuly21,1994.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.8totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1995(FileNo.1-9861).*
18110.11Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
AgreementbetweenManufacturersandTradersTrustCompanyandBrianE.Hickeydated

asofJuly21,1994.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm10-Qforthe

quarterendedSeptember30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.12SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEast
NewYorkSavingsBankandAtwoodCollins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11

totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1991(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.13Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
Agreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEastNewYorkSavingsBankandAtwood

Collins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-Qforthequarter

endedSeptember30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.14ConsultingandNon-CompetitionAgreement,datedasofJanuary11,2012,amongM&T
BankCorporation,WilmingtonTrustCompanyandDonaldE.Foley.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-KdatedDecember10,2012(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.15ConsultingAgreement,datedasofJune28,2012,betweenM&TBankCorporationand
RobertE.Sadler,Jr.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm8-Kdated

December10,2012(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.16M&TBankCorporationSupplementalPensionPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.17M&TBankCorporationSupplementalRetirementSavingsPlan.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibit10.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.18M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.12totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2004(File

No.1-9861).*
10.19M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.1totheFormS-8datedApril7,2008(FileNo.333-150122).*
10.20M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan,asamended.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibit4.1totheFormS-8datedOctober19,2012(FileNo.333-184504).*
10.21KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1992DirectorFeePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11
totheForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1999(File

No.000-11460).*
10.22M&TBankCorporationEmployeeStockPurchasePlan.Filedherewith.*

10.23M&TBankCorporation2005IncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
AppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch4,2005

(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.24M&TBankCorporation2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoAppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,

2009(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.25M&TBankCorporationEmployeeSeverancePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2totheForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.26ProvidentBanksharesCorporationAmendedandRestatedStockOptionPlan.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit4.1totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009

(FileNo.333-159795).*
10.27ProvidentBanksharesCorporation2004EquityCompensationPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit4.2totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009(File

No.333-159795).*
10.28WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2002Long-TermIncentivePlan.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.64totheQuarterlyReportonForm10-Qof

WilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledonNovember9,2004(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.29WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2005Long-TermIncentivePlan.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.21totheAnnualReportonForm10-Kof

WilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledonFebruary29,2008(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.30WilmingtonTrustCorporation2009Long-TermIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibitDtotheProxyStatementofWilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledonMarch16,

2009(FileNo.1-14659).*
18211.1Statementre:ComputationofEarningsPerCommonShare.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
note14ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancial

StatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
12.1RatioofEarningstoFixedCharges.Filedherewith.

14.1M&TBankCorporationCodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit14.1totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(File

No.1-9861).
21.1SubsidiariesoftheRegistrant.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSubsidiariesﬂ
containedinPartI,Item1hereof.
23.1ConsentofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPre:RegistrationStatementNos.333-57330,333-
63660,33-12207,33-58500,33-63917,333-43171,333-43175,333-63985,333-97031,33-

32044,333-16077,333-84384,333-127406,333-150122,333-164015,333-163992,333-

160769,333-159795,333-170740and333-155759.Filedherewith.
31.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof
2002.Filedherewith.
31.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.
Filedherewith.
32.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906of
theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
32.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
99.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderEESA§111(b)(4).Filedherewith.

99.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderEESA§111(b)(4).Filedherewith.

99.3ReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporationdatedJanuary31,2008.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit99.1totheForm8-KdatedJanuary31,2008(File

No.1-9861).
99.4AmendmenttoReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporation,datedasof
May27,2011,amendingtheReplacementCapitalCovenant,datedasofJanuary31,2008

(incorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit99.2ofM&TBankCorporation™sForm8-Kdated

May26,2011).
101.INS**XBRLInstanceDocument.

101.SCH**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchema.

101.CAL**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbase.

101.LAB**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbase.

101.PRE**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbase.

101.DEF**XBRLTaxonomyDefinitionLinkbase.
*Managementcontractorcompensatoryplanorarrangement.
**AsprovidedinRule406TofRegulationS-T,thisinformationisfurnishedandnotfiledforpurposesof
Sections11and12oftheSecuritiesActof1933andSection18oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934.
183 DIVIDEND A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their dividends and
 REINVESTMENT PLAN   
voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M
&T Bank Corporation™s common stock.
   INQUIRIES  
Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions about 
 stock certi˜cates, dividend checks or other account information should be addressed to 
 
M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent:
 
 Registrar and Transfer Company
 10 Commerce Drive 
  Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572 800-368-5948

 E-mail address: info
@rtco.com
 Internet address: www.rtco.com
 
  Requests for additional copies of this publication or annual or quarterly reports ˜led with the 
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q), which are 

available at no charge, may be directed to:
 
 M&T Bank Corporation
 Shareholder Relations Department
 One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor
 Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399 716-842-5138

 E-mail address: ir
@mtb.com
 
 All other general inquiries may be directed to: 716-635-4000
  INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 
 QUOTATION AND TRADING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the symbol MTB on the 
 OF CO
MMON STOCK   
New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ). 
COVER ART: Italian-born artist and sculptor Arieto (Harry) Bertoia was renowned for his innovative 
use of media. As his body of work grew, Bertoia became widely sought a˛er to create unique pieces 
 for notable buildings and museums.
In 1967, Bertoia was commissioned to design a fountain to commemorate the opening of M&T Bank™s 
headquarters, designed by famed architect Minoru Yamasaki, at One M&T Plaza in downtown Bu˚alo. 

˝e resulting design is a shell-like form constructed from bundles of copper tubes. Water pools and 
 spills over the sculpture™s curvilinear form into a shallow, aqua-colored pool. ˝e fountain is set within 
 a tree-lined public plaza where free concerts are given each business day during the summer. 
As good stewards of the sculpture, M&T Bank embarked on a restoration project in 2010. ˝e artist™s 
 own son, Val Bertoia, an accomplished artist in his own right, proudly took on the task of refurbishing 
the sculpture his father had created more than four decades before.
Harry Bertoia (1915-1978), Untitled, 1967, Copper, Commissioned by M&T Bank, Photograph by Bi˜ Henrich
www.mtb.com 
M&T BANK CORPORATION  /  2012 ANNUAL REPORT 10%
SEC 10
-KM&T BANK CORPORA
TION
2012 
ANNUAL 
REPOR
T