M&T BANK CORPORA
TION 
2011 
ANNUAL 
REPOR
Twww.mtb.com 
M&T 
BANK C
ORPORATIO
N  /  
2011 
ANNUAL REPOR
T 100%
SEC 10
-K DIVIDEND A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their dividends and
 REINVESTMENT PLAN   
voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock.
   INQUIRIES  
Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions about  
stock certi˜cates, dividend checks or other account information should be addressed to  

M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent:
 
 Registrar and Transfer Company
 10 Commerce Drive  
 Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572 800-368-5948
 E-mail address: info
@rtco.com
 Internet address: www.rtco.com
 
  Questions on other matters and requests for additional copies of this publication or annual 
 or quarterly reports ˜led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission  
(SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q), which are available at no charge, may be directed to:
 
 M&T Bank Corporation
 Shareholder Relations Department
 One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor
 Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399 716-842-5138
 E-mail address: ir
@mtb.com
  INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 
 QUOTATION AN
D TRA
DING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the symbol MTB on the 
 OF CO
MMON STOCK   
New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ). 
COVER AR
T˛e design used by young Mary King of Philadelphia for her silkwork tree-of-life picture was undoubtedly inspired by imported 
palampores (hand-painted cloths produced on the southeastern coast of India). ˛e motif of a ˝owering tree was truly a global 

design, a multicultural creation of European, Asian, and American in˝uences.
 Using ˜ne silks, as well as gold and silver thread on  

a bright yellow silk moiré background, she supplemented the central tree, scrolling branches, and large blossoms with strawberries, 

rabbits, and a beaded-eyed lion and leopard to create one of the most beautiful embroidery pieces of the 18th century. 
Winterthur Museum, Garden & Library Œ home to this year™s featured artwork Œ is considered the premier museum of decorative 
and ˜ne arts in America. Once the residence of Henry Francis du Pont, the 175-room house and adjacent galleries display more 

than 90,000 objects. ˛e du Ponts, the founding family of Wilmington Trust, are highly regarded for their philanthropic endeavors 

including this historic gem in Delaware. Proudly, the long-standing relationship between Wilmington Trust and Winterthur  

continues today with the added support of M&T Bank.
˛is is the eleventh in a series of annual reports to feature the work of regional artists in the communities served by M&T Bank.
Needlework picture
Worked by Mary King

United States, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1754

Silk on silk

H: 18 ¼"  W: 24 ˙
"
Collection of the Winterthur Museum Œ Bequest of Henry Francis du Pont. 1966.978
i CONTENTS
 Financial Highlights
 ........................................ii  Message to Shareholders
 ....................................iv  O˜cers and Directors
 ...................................xxvii
  United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K
 ...xxx ANNUAL M
EETING  ˚e annual meeting of shareholders will take place at 11:00 a.m. on  
April 17, 2012 at One M&T Plaza in Bu˛alo.
 PROFILE  
M&T Bank Corporation is a bank holding company headquartered in 

Bu˛alo, New York, which had assets of $77.9 billion at December 31, 2011. 

M&T Bank Corporation™s subsidiaries include M&T Bank and Wilmington 

Trust, National Association.
   M&T Bank has domestic banking o˜ces in New York State, Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia, 
 and has o˜ces in Ontario, Canada and the Cayman Islands. 
 Major subsidiaries include:
M&T B
ANK C
ORPORAT
ION   M&T Insurance Agency, Inc.
   M&T Real Estate Trust
   M&T Realty Capital Corporation
   M&T Securities, Inc.
    Wilmington Trust Company 
   Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc.
    iiM&T B
ANK C
ORPORAT
ION AND SUBSIDIARIESFinancial Highlights
(a)  
Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related gains and 
expenses which, except in the calculation of the e˜ciency ratio, are net of applicable income tax e˚ects. A reconciliation of net income 

and net operating income appears in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
(b)  Excludes impact of merger-related gains and expenses and net securities transactions.
 2011
 2010 Change
For the year
Performance
 Net income (thousands)
 ........... $859,479
 $736,161
 + 17% Net income available to common  
  shareholders Œ diluted (thousands)
 .... 781,765 675,853
 + 16% Return on
  Average assets 
 .................  1.16% 1.08%  Average common equity
 ..........  9.67% 9.30% Net interest margin
 ..............  3.73% 3.84% Net charge-o˛s/average loans
 .......  .47% .67%Per common share data
 Basic earnings
 .................   $      6.37
 $      5.72
 + 11% Diluted earnings
 ...............  6.35 5.69 + 12% Cash dividends
 ................ 2.80 2.80   
    Š
 Net operating (tangible) results
(a) Net operating income (thousands)
 ....  $884,253
 $755,165
 + 17% Diluted net operating earnings  
  per common share
 ..............  6.55 5.84 + 12% Net operating return on
  Average tangible assets
 ...........  1.26% 1.17%  Average tangible common equity
 .....  17.96% 18.95% E˜ciency ratio
(b) ...............  60.43% 53.71%At December 31

Balance sheet data (millions)
 Loans and leases, 
  net of unearned discount
 ..........  $  60,096
 $  51,990
 + 16% Total assets
 ...................  77,924 68,021 + 15% Deposits
 .....................  59,395 49,805 + 19% Total shareholders™ equity
 ..........  9,271 8,358 + 11%  Common shareholders™ equity
 ....... 8,403 7,611 + 10%Loan quality
 Allowance for credit losses to total loans 
 .  1.51% 1.74% Nonaccrual loans ratio
 ............  1.83% 2.19%Capital
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 .......  9.67% 9.47%  Total risk-based capital ratio
 ........ 13.26%  13.08%  Leverage ratio
 .................  9.28% 9.33% Tier 1 common ratio
 ............. 6.86% 6.51%  Total equity/total assets
 ............  11.90% 12.29% Common equity (book value) per share
 ..
 $    66.82
 $    63.54
 + 5% Tangible common equity per share
 .... 37.79 33.26 + 14% Market price per share
  Closing
 .....................  76.34 87.05 _ 12%  High
 .......................  91.05 96.15  Low
 .......................  66.40 66.32  iiiDILUTED EARNINGSPER COMMON SHARE 2007 2008 2009 2010 20
11Diluted net operating(a)Diluted$6.40 $5.39 $3.54 $5.84 $6.55
$5.95 $5.01 $2.89 $5.69 $6.35
RETURN ON AVERAGE COMMONSHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2
011Net operating return on average tangible  comm
on shareholders™ equity
(a)Return on average common shareholders™ equity22.58% 19.63% 13.42% 18.95% 17.96%
10.47%  8.64%   5.07%   9.30% 9.67%
NET INCOMEIn millions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2
011Net operating income(a)Net income$703.8 $598.6 $455.4 $755.2 $884.3
$654.3 $555.9 $379.9 $736.2 $859.5
SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY
PER COMMON SHARE AT YEAR-END
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Shareholders™ equity per common share  
at year-end
 
Tangible shareholders™ equity per co
mmon share at year-end
$58.99 $56.29 $59.31 
$63.54 $66.82$27.98 $25.94 $28.27 
$33.26 $37.79(a)
 Excludes merger-related gains and expenses and amortization of intangible assets, net of applicable income tax e˚ects.  
A reconciliation of net operating (tangible) results with net income is included in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
ivMESSA
GE TO
 SHA
REHO
LD
ERSv ast year was one of signi˝cant accomplishment for M&T, not the least 
of which was reporting a 12 percent increase in diluted earnings per common 
share. ˚at accomplishment marked the thirty-˝˙h consecutive year and some 

142 consecutive quarters in which M&T realized a positive earnings result. On 

May 16, 2011, we closed on our acquisition of the venerable Wilmington Trust 

Corporation, adding some $10.8 billion of assets and $8.9 billion of deposits to 

our balance sheet and giving us the leading market share in Delaware. Perhaps 

more importantly, Wilmington Trust and a˜liates brought with them some 

$50 billion of assets managed for an array of ˝nancially substantial individuals 

and corporations, increasing our year-over-year revenue from trust-related 

services by 171 percent in just seven and one-half months following the 

acquisition. Although much work still lies ahead to fully integrate M&T and 

Wilmington Trust, we took a major step forward in that process by completing 

the conversion of the Wilmington Trust branches and operations to M&T™s core 

loan and deposit systems late in last year™s third quarter. In connection with the 

acquisition, and in accordance with our capital plan, during the ˝rst half of 2011 

we restructured our investment securities portfolio, retired Wilmington Trust™s 

$330 million of preferred stock that had been held by the U.S. Treasury, redeemed 

$370 million of our own such stock and, in anticipation of upcoming changes 
 in regulatory requirements, issued $500 million of ˝xed rate perpetual preferred 

stock having a relatively attractive rate of 6.875%. Furthermore, we signi˝cantly 

increased our key regulatory capital ratios while maintaining our common  

stock dividend.
Lvi˚ese accomplishments are particularly noteworthy given the state of the 
national and global economy and the seemingly unceasing regulatory headwinds 
brought to bear against community-based banks like M&T, in supposed response 

to the sins of Wall Street and so-called money center banks that follow a much 

di˛erent business model than we do. Before turning to that topic though, 
 let™s look at some of the speci˝cs of last year™s ˝nancial results.
Our tally of 2011™s net income measured in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) was $859 million or $6.35 of diluted 

earnings per common share. Both ˝gures were up signi˝cantly from $736 million 

or $5.69 per share in 2010. 
Following our usual practice Œ so as to help investors understand the 
impact of acquisition activity on M&T™s results Œ we also provide supplemental 

reporting on a ﬁnet operatingﬂ or ﬁtangibleﬂ basis. In so doing, we exclude the 

a˙er-tax impact of merger-related gains and integration expenses, as well as the 

e˛ect of core deposit and other intangible assets on both the balance sheet and 

the income statement. Measured that way, net operating income aggregated $884 

million and $755 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Diluted net operating 

income per common share was $6.55 in 2011 and $5.84 in 2010. Expressed as 

a return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholders™ 

equity, net operating results in 2011 were 1.26% and 17.96%, respectively. A year 

earlier those ratios had been 1.17% and 18.95%.
M&T™s results for 2011 included a net merger-related gain of $13 million 
(a˙er applicable tax e˛ect), or $0.10 per common share, related to the acquisition 

of Wilmington Trust. ˚is reˆected a non-taxable gain of $65 million on the 

acquisition itself, reduced by $52 million of a˙er-tax merger-related expenses ($84 

million pre-tax) incurred over the course of 2011 to integrate Wilmington Trust™s 

systems and operations with those of M&T. ˚e year-earlier results included a 
vii
similar net merger-related gain of $16 million or $0.14 per common share (a˙er 
applicable tax e˛ect) related to M&T™s acquisition of K Bank on November 5, 

2010. Merger-related expenses were less than $1 million in that earlier year.
Beyond the merger-related items, M&T™s 2011 results also included 
several other noteworthy events. Two of these, one having a positive impact, 

the other negative, are linked to actions we took in 2007 before the ˝nancial 

crisis. I characterized these actions as ﬁunforced errorsﬂ in the 2009 Message to 

Shareholders. In February 2007, we purchased a 20% interest in Bayview 
 Lending Group (ﬁBLGﬂ) for $300 million. Over the ensuing years, the carrying 

value of that investment was reduced by $106 million to $194 million, reˆecting 

our share of losses that resulted from BLG™s inability to pro˝tably resume its 

business of originating and selling small-balance commercial mortgage loans. 

In 2008, in an e˛ort to mitigate our losses, we amended our arrangement with 

Bayview Financial, BLG™s majority owner, such that M&T became entitled to 

share in the positive value generated by its entities outside of BLG, if and when 

that value is distributed. While Bayview™s asset management operations in those 

entities continue to grow, the securitization market in which BLG previously 

operated remains stagnant. Given the passage of time since the original 

investment, combined with our increased estimate of the additional timeframe 

over which we could reasonably expect recovery of our investment, we 
 concluded that our investment was other-than-temporarily impaired. As such, 
 in last year™s fourth quarter we recorded an impairment charge of $79 million 
 by writing down our interest in BLG to its estimated fair value of $115 million. 

A˙er applicable tax e˛ect, that charge equates to $49 million or $0.39 per 

common share.
In March 2007, we had purchased three collateralized debt obligations 
(ﬁCDOsﬂ) for our securities portfolio amounting to $132 million. By that year™s 
viii
end, the securities were signi˝cantly impaired and we wrote them down by $127 
million. In 2008, M&T Bank Corporation ˝led a lawsuit against Deutsche Bank 

Securities, Inc. and several other parties seeking damages arising from the $82 

million investment in two of those CDOs. ˚e lawsuit alleged, among other 

things, that the quality of the investment was not as represented. ˚is matter has 

now been fully settled and, as part of that settlement, M&T received $55 million 

in December 2011. A˙er applicable tax e˛ect, that recovery equates to $34 million 

or $0.27 per common share.
Given that $55 million settlement, M&T made a $30 million contribution 
to ˚e M&T Charitable Foundation in 2011™s fourth quarter bringing the total 

of such donations to $40 million for the year. We have long held the view that 

healthy communities are the foundation of successful businesses. ˚is belief lies 

at the heart of M&T™s community banking philosophy. Over the past ten years, 

the Foundation has made $147 million of grants to not-for-pro˝t agencies that 

are focused on improving the quality of life in our communities and assisting the 

economic environment where our customers and employees live and work.
Turning to our day-to-day business of making loans and taking deposits, 
taxable-equivalent net interest income rose ˝ve percent to $2.42 billion in 2011 

from $2.29 billion in 2010. ˚e year-over-year improvement was a direct result of 

growth in average earning assets, which increased by $5.0 billion to $64.7 billion 

in 2011. ˚at increase includes $3.8 billion of average loan balances obtained in 

the acquisition of Wilmington Trust. Average deposits increased by $7.7 billion 

in 2011 to $55.7 billion, including $4.9 billion of average balances attributable to 

Wilmington Trust. ˚at deposit growth allowed us to reduce the average balance 

of more expensive wholesale borrowings last year by $3.2 billion. Mitigating the 

impact on net interest income of higher loans and deposits was an eleven basis 

point (hundredths of one percent) narrowing of the net interest margin Œ that is, 
ixthe ratio of taxable-equivalent net interest income to average earning assets Œ to 
3.73% in 2011 from 3.84% in 2010. ˚at narrowing reˆects the impacts of the 

Wilmington Trust acquisition and the low interest rate environment in which we 

are operating.
Last year marked a second consecutive year of improved credit performance. 
Net loan charge-o˛s Œ that is, the amount by which loans charged o˛ exceeded 

amounts recovered from loans previously charged o˛ Œ as a percentage of  

average loans outstanding improved to .47% in 2011 from .67% in 2010. Our net 

charge-o˛ percentage was lowest amongst our large regional and super-regional 

peer institutions. In dollar amount, net charge-o˛s declined to $265 million last 

year. A year earlier they amounted to $346 million.
As was the case a year ago, nonaccrual loans continued to decline in 
2011, albeit at a pace much slower than we would like. At the end of the year 

nonaccrual loans totaled $1.10 billion. ˚at was 1.83% of outstanding loans. 

At December 31, 2010 nonaccrual loans were $1.14 billion or 2.19% of then 

outstanding loans.
Despite these improving credit trends, the tenuous state of the U.S. 
economy and the circumstances of our own loan portfolio led us to record a 

provision for credit losses of $270 million that Œ a˙er the impact of $265 million 

of net charge-o˛s described above Œ increased the allowance for credit losses to 

$908 million at 2011™s end. ˚at allowance represents our best estimate of losses 

inherent in the loan portfolio. A year earlier the allowance for credit losses had 

been $903 million. As a percentage of loans outstanding, the allowance for credit 

losses was 1.51% at December 31, 2011 compared with 1.74% at the end of 2010. 

˚e decline in that ratio reˆects the impact of loans obtained in the acquisition of 

Wilmington Trust which GAAP requires be recorded at estimated fair value on 

the acquisition date. ˚at estimate of fair value is based on projected collectible 
xcash ˆows that are net of the impact of expected credit losses. As a result, we do 
not establish an allowance for credit losses on acquired loans unless subsequent 

projections of collectible cash ˆows associated with such loans are less than the 

amounts initially projected. ˚e remaining portion of the net fair valuation 

discounts Œ which are not part of the allowance for credit losses, but rather serve 

to directly reduce the carrying values of the loans related to Wilmington Trust 

and other business combinations completed in 2009 and 2010 Œ was $658 million 

at December 31, 2011. ˚ose discounts are largely representative of acquired loan 

balances that we do not anticipate collecting. While the accounting for acquired 

loans as designed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (ﬁFASBﬂ) is 

unnecessarily complex, the concept that we have set aside dollars to cover 

uncollectible balances is not. In simple terms, the $908 million of allowance and 

$658 million of fair valuation discounts have been established to absorb losses on 

some $60 billion of credit extended by M&T.
In total, last year™s noninterest income rose some 43% compared with 
2010. Even if one excluded the merger and litigation-related gains noted earlier, 

noninterest income aggregated $1.46 billion in 2011. ˚at was up 35% from a 

similarly calculated $1.08 billion a year earlier. Nearly all of that improvement 

can be attributed to Wealth Advisory and Corporate Client Services trust-related 

revenues associated with Wilmington Trust™s provision of services to its clientele 

and to $73 million of net investment gains in 2011. ˚e results for 2010 reˆected 

$84 million of net investment losses.
Noninterest expenses were $2.48 billion in 2011, an increase of $563 million 
from $1.91 billion in the preceding year. Noninterest operating expenses, which 

exclude merger-related expenses as well as the amortization of core deposit 

and other intangible assets, were $2.33 billion in 2011, increased from $1.86 

billion in 2010. ˚at increase resulted from the impact of operations associated 
xiwith Wilmington Trust, the BLG impairment charge, the increased charitable 
contribution in last year™s fourth quarter, and a 26% year-over-year increase 
 in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (ﬁFDICﬂ) assessments that was 
 largely attributable to mandated changes in assessment rates and methodology.
Expansion into new markets, encompassed by the Wilmington Trust 
franchise, and the diversi˝cation into a wider array of trust and ˝duciary 

businesses, were accomplished while increasing tangible book value per 
 common share, a key measure of value created for shareholders, by 14%, 
 all with an undiminished $2.80 per share cash dividend distributed to our 

shareholders during the year. We believe the signi˝cant accomplishments 
 of 2011 were all the more impressive, given the continued rising costs of 

regulation in our industry.
REFLECTIONS ON THE S
TATE
 OF B
ANKING AND THE LEADERSHIP CRI
SISAs relatively good a year 2011 was for M&T itself, it was far from an easy one. 
Indeed, it is di˜cult, for one who has spent more than a generation in the ˝eld, 

to recall a time when banking as a profession has been publicly held in such 

persistently low esteem. A 2011 Gallup survey found that only a quarter of the 

American public expressed con˝dence in the integrity of bankers. We have 

reached a point at which not only do public demonstrations speci˝cally target 

the ˝nancial industry but when a leading national newspaper would opine that 

regulation which might lower bank pro˝ts would be ﬁa boon to the broader 

economy.ﬂ What™s worse is that such a view is far from entirely illogical, even if 

it fails to distinguish between Wall Street banks who, in my view, were central to 

the ˝nancial crisis and continue to distort our economy, and Main Street banks 

who were o˙en victims of the crisis and are eager, under the right conditions, to 

extend credit to businesses that need it.
xiiIt is no consolation, moreover, to observe that banks and the ˝nancial 
services industry generally were far from alone in sparking the crisis. Nonetheless, 
it is true, and very much worth keeping in mind, that major institutions in 

other sectors of the American system Œ public and private Œ must be considered 

complicit, some in ways we are only beginning to learn fully about. As 

understandable as a search for particular causes, or villains, might be, the truth 

is that the economic crisis that began in the fall of 2007 implicated a wide range 

of institutions Œ not only bankers but their regulators, not only investors but 

those paid to advise them, not only private ˝nance but its government-sponsored 

kin. 
˜e wide spectrum of the culpable has le˚ the U.S. and the world with a 
problem which, although related to the ˛nancial crisis, transcends it and must be 

confronted: the decimation of public trust in once-respected institutions and their 

leaders.
 ˚is has created a fear among those responsible for forming the rules and 
standards that shape the American ˝nancial services industry. And the outcome 

of this fear-driven rulemaking is likely to burden the e˜ciency of the American 

˝nancial system for years to come and will potentially have broader implications 

for the overall economy. 
In telling the story, one must start by looking at the banking industry in 
which I came of age. A few generations ago, our leading banks Œ which were 

then known as the money center banks Œ had a clear and respected role in 

the American economy. ˚ey focused on providing pure banking services to 

corporations, banks, and individuals across the United States. ˚eir bankers 

traveled around the country and provided services to corporate customers and 

community banks. ˚eir chief executives, in the tradition of John Pierpont 

Morgan (who famously intervened personally to halt the ˝nancial panic of 1907), 

were viewed as national leaders. Because of their size, sophistication, and quality 

of leadership, these banks led and were respected by the rest of the banking 

community, if not the country as a whole. Over time, American corporations 
xiiistarted to trade and invest more overseas and, consequently, money center 
bankers followed their clients as well. Such institutions also provided arduous 

and detailed training for future generations of bankers Œ drawn not only from 

the ranks of money center bank employees themselves but also from their 

correspondent banks. ˚ese programs were o˙en led by outstanding faculty 

from major universities. Bank leaders of this era saw public service as part of 

their obligation to serve the general interest. Notably, during this period, the 

average compensation in the ˝nancial services industry was exactly the same as 

the average income of a non-farm U.S. worker. A wall, prudently erected in the 

wake of the Depression, kept investment banks apart from traditional banks, 

which served the needs of individuals and businesses, and from savings and loan 

institutions, which focused on housing ˝nance. Each served markets in which 

they specialized and thoroughly understood.
All this began to change in the 1970s and especially the early 1980s as 
these banks grew and began a pattern of investing in areas where they possessed 

little knowledge Œ a trend, which culminated in money center banks forfeiting 

their mantle of leadership and tarnishing the reputation of the banking industry 

as a whole. 
One might trace the beginning of this chain of events to the market 
dislocations caused by the OPEC-led increase in world oil prices. But panics and 

price bubbles have long been a feature of banking and investing, dating at least 

from the time of the 1637 Dutch Tulip Mania. Historically, however, the ˝nancial 

system has righted itself, responsibly, in the a˙ermath of such events. ˚at was 

not the case, starting in the 1980s. 
 In a desire to expand their franchises, money center banks sought 
alternative investments and extended themselves into unchartered territories. 

Loans to energy companies (ﬁoil patchﬂ loans), shipping ˝rms, and less-
xiv
developed countries (LDCs) became the ˆavor of the day. In venturing into these 
lines of lending, they chose to ignore the strong and prescient 1977 warning 

by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Arthur Burns, who observed that 
ﬁunder 
the circumstances, many countries will be forced to borrow heavily, and lending 

institutions may well be tempted to extend credit more generously than is prudent.ﬂ
 ˚e fate of such new exotic ventures established an unfortunate pattern that 
would recur at every turn. When the oil price bubble burst in 1982, it triggered 

events that ultimately led to the outright failure of Continental Illinois, then the 

seventh-largest bank in the United States. ˚e problems of this era spread, as 

nearly one-third of all oil tankers were scrapped between 1982 and 1985. Money 

center banks, which had not only lent heavily to shipping companies but also 
 held equity positions in ships, found themselves in signi˝cant trouble. As 

U.S. interest rates and the value of the dollar climbed during the early 1980s, 

Citibank™s Chairman took the view that 
ﬁcountries don™t go bankruptﬂ
 Œ a 
hypothesis that was proven erroneous when 27 countries initiated actions to 

restructure their existing bank debt, leading to devastating implications for their 

bank creditors. In 1987, these banks began a delayed acknowledgement and 

recognition of the losses accruing from loans to developing countries. So great 

was the reckless foray that a 1993 study conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank 

of Boston found that had the money center banks truly recognized all the losses 

inherent in their books in 1984, one major bank would have been insolvent and 

seven others dangerously close. 
So it was that the underpinnings of recurring crises were introduced as the 
money center banks searched for new opportunities and Wall Street investment 

banks became more and more creative in the development of ˝nancial products. 

One™s cash from deposits and the other™s creativity led to a symbiotic relationship, 

enhanced by the closeness of geography.
xv˚e decision to live together culminated in a marriage, made possible 
by the repeal, in 1999, of the Glass-Steagall Act, which had, at least notionally, 
kept investment and commercial banking separate. One can argue whether the 

architects of these new Wall Street institutions themselves created a new culture 

of greed or whether they merely capitalized on the new arrangements. In either 

case, this departure from banking as we knew it helped to sow the seeds of 

crisis and embodied a broader change that, in important and unfortunate ways, 

continues today. 
˚ese trends all came together in 2008 with the sub-prime crisis, 
characterized by Wall Street banks betting on and borrowing against increasingly 

opaque ˝nancial instruments, built on algorithms rather than underwriting. Like 

the institutions of the ˇ80s, the major banks created investments they did not 

understand Œ and, indeed it seems nobody really understood. In the process, they 

contorted the overall American economy. ˚e unnatural growth in the industry 

led the portion of GDP dedicated to insurance, ˝nance and real estate to rise 

from 11.5 percent in 1950 to 20.6 percent during the decade that began in 2000. 

In their quest for growth, the Wall Street banks appeared to seek dominance at 

the expense of leadership and, through acquisition or aggressiveness, sacri˝ced 

the latter in order to attain the former. As a result, today the largest six banks 

own or service roughly 56% of all mortgages and nearly two-thirds of those in 

foreclosure proceedings. Indeed, we have reached the point where one bank 

services almost $2 trillion and close to 30% of all mortgages in foreclosure.
Undoubtedly, the crisis with whose a˙ermath we are still dealing has 
 had wide-ranging e˛ects Œ for taxpayers, homeowners, small business borrowers 

and more. But the list of the deeply damaged must also include the good name 

of banking itself. Since 2002, the six largest banks have been hit by at least 207 

separate ˝nes, sanctions or legal awards totaling $47.8 billion. None of these 
xvi
banks had fewer than 22 infractions; in fact one had 39 across seven countries, on 
three di˛erent continents. ˚e public, moreover, has been made well aware of such 

wrongdoing. According to a study done by M&T, over the past two years, the top 

six banks have been cited 1,150 times by 
˛e Wall Street Journal
 and 
˛e New York 
Times
 in articles about their improper activities. It is not unreasonable to presume 
that these ˝ndings must represent a proxy for the national, if not international, 

press as a whole. 
Public cynicism about the major banks has been further reinforced by the 
salaries of their top executives, in large part fueled not by lending but by trading. 

At a time when the American economy is stuck in the doldrums and so many are
 unemployed or under-employed, the average compensation for the chief executives 

of four of the six largest banks in 2010 was $17.3 million Œ more than 262 times 

that of the average American worker. One bank with 33,000 employees earned 

a 3.7% return on common equity in 2011, yet its employees received an average 

compensation of $367,000 Œ more than ˝ve times that of the average U.S. worker. 

˚us, it is hardly surprising that the public would judge the banking industry 

harshly Œ and view Wall Street™s executives and their intentions with skepticism. 
Nor can one say with any con˝dence that we have seen a fundamental 
change in the big bank business approach which helped lead us into crisis 

and scandal. ˚e Wall Street banks continue to ˝ght against regulation that 

would limit their capacity to trade for their own accounts Œ while enjoying the 

backing of deposit insurance Œ and thus seek to keep in place a system which 

puts taxpayers at high risk. In 2011, the six largest banks spent $31.5 million 

on lobbying activities. All told, the six ˝rms employed 234 registered lobbyists. 

Because the Wall Street juggernaut has tarnished the reputation of banking as 

a whole, it is di˜cult if not impossible for bankers Œ who once were viewed as 

thoughtful stewards of the overall economy Œ to plausibly play a leadership role 
xvii
today. 
Inevitably, their ideas and proposals to help right our ˛nancial system 
 will be viewed as self-interested, not high-minded.
 As noted before, however, the major banks were not the only ones 
implicated in and tainted by the ˝nancial crisis. One can, sadly, go on in this vein 
to discuss a great many other institutions which have disappointed the American 

public in similar ways, in the process compromising their own leadership status. 

˚ey have in common a relationship to the crisis associated with the nation™s 

housing policies, which were themselves shaped over the course of several 

generations by many parts of the government and both political parties. ˚ose 

policies marshaled some of the leading government agencies and enterprises, as 

well as private ˝nancial institutions, in the quest to broaden home ownership. 

Even apart from the collateral damage this pursuit has caused the ˝nancial 

system, it is worth keeping in mind that it was not remarkably successful on its 

own terms Œ particularly when today one ˝nds a higher rate of home ownership 

in countries such as Hungary, Poland and Portugal, where the per capita GDP on 

average is 56% lower than that of the United States. 
While the role of the Wall Street banks in the proliferation of complex 
investment securities and sub-prime lending has been well publicized, the 

participation of Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) including Fannie 

Mae and Freddie Mac in precipitating the ˝nancial crisis was just as signi˝cant. 

In the years leading to the housing crisis, between 2005 and 2007, nearly one-

third of all mortgage originations in the United States were guaranteed by these 

entities. In September 2008, when control of Fannie and Freddie was assumed 

by the U.S. government, they had a combined portfolio of some $195 billion 

in sub-prime loans, Alt-A loans, and complex derivatives. In total they held or 

insured $5.3 trillion Œ roughly half the total mortgage debt in the United States.

As of September 2011, of the 2.2 million mortgages undergoing foreclosure, 

about 730,000 or 33% were owned or guaranteed by these GSEs; of the estimated 
xviii
850,000 repossessed homes, 182,212 or 21% were held by Fannie and Freddie. 
˚eir intimate relationships with elected representatives are legendary, and their 

lobbying abilities notorious, particularly as Wall Street became successful in 

infringing on their turf.
So, too, were the good names of credit ratings agencies tarnished Œ and 
for good reason Œ through the course of the housing crisis. ˚ese organizations 

proved to be less watchdogs than enablers, helping to accelerate the ˝nancial 

meltdown, thanks to the favorable ratings they issued for opaque bonds secured 

by sub-prime residential mortgages Œ which proved to be no security at all. In a 

recent M&T study, we looked at a sample of 2,679 residential mortgage-backed 

issues originated between 2004 and 2007 with a total face value of $564 billion. Of 

that sample, 2,670 or 99 percent were rated triple-A at origination by S&P. Today, 

90 percent of these bonds are rated non-investment grade. 
Even the FASB, in their quest for transparency, had engendered an opacity 
that has done much to scare investors away from the banking industry, because 

they ˝nd its ˝nancial statements too di˜cult to understand. ˚e absurdity of 

current accounting principles was emphasized in the third quarter of 2011, when 

the value of the debt issued by ˝ve of the largest banks decreased $9 billion, and 

yet these institutions booked the same amount as pro˝ts, representing 44% of 

their combined $21 billion in pre-tax earnings. For decades, the role of accounting 

principles was to ensure that a company™s ˝nancials properly reˆected the 

performance of the business being conducted. Unintuitive results such as these 
 do little to bolster the dwindling con˝dence in the American ˝nancial system.
So it is that the crisis was orchestrated by so many who should have, 
instead, been sounding the alarm Œ not only bankers but also regulators, rating 

˝rms, government agencies, private enterprises and investors. ˚at a former U.S. 

Senator, Governor and CEO of a big six ˝nancial institution was at the helm of 
xixMF Global on the eve of its demise due to trading losses, or that the largest-ever 
Ponzi scheme was run by the former chairman of a major stock exchange will 

long be remembered by the public. 
˜e repercussions have stretched beyond 
banking, creating an atmosphere of fear a˝ecting and inhibiting those who 

should be leading us toward a better post-crisis economy.
 FEA
R-DRIV
EN
 RUL
EMA
KING 
AN
D I
TS
 BURD
EN
: In this vacuum of credible 
leadership, not just in the banking industry but all around it, it is entirely 

understandable that regulators believe they must proceed with an abundance Œ 

perhaps over-abundance Œ of caution. Inevitably, they feel pressure to eliminate, 

in its entirety, risk that had been rising for far too long. ˚is tension Œ based 

in their understanding that steps aimed at ensuring the safety and soundness 

of the ˝nancial system can stiˆe its vitality and dynamism Œ naturally weighs 

on rulemakers and slows the pace of promulgation. ˚ey know too, that, in 

designing regulations, the sort of informal conversations with private institutions 

and individuals, which were once routine, might now be viewed as suspect, 

leaving regulators to operate in isolation, without thoughtful guidance as to 

the overall impact of their actions. When all are suspect, no conversation can 

be viewed as benign. Ultimately, however, this is neither a recipe to improve 

public con˝dence nor a situation likely to facilitate the expeditious design of a 

regulatory structure which will not hobble the extension of credit. 
One must 
be concerned that a lack of leadership and trust, and an overreliance, instead, 

on the development of policies, procedures and protocols, has created a level of 

complexity that will decrease the e˙ciency of the U.S. ˛nancial system for years 

to come Œ and hamper the ˆow of trade and commerce for the foreseeable future. 
˚e e˛ects on a community bank such as M&T prove to be signi˝cant. 
˚e cost of compliance with the multiplicity of statutes, standards, and other 

government mandates under which a comparatively uncomplicated bank like 
xxM&T must operate has been tracked and discussed in these Messages for nearly 
a decade. ˚e news, however, is not getting better. ˚ese costs have risen from 

roughly $50 million in 2003 to $95.1 million in 2011. Add to this, the insurance 

premium we pay to the FDIC, to maintain and replenish the Deposit Insurance 

Fund used to liquidate failed banks and repay insured depositors, which increased 

from just $4.5 million in 2006 to an annualized rate of $107.7 million at the end of 

2011. New edicts, which limit our ability to pay overdra˙s incurred by customers 

(Regulation E) and impose price controls on debit card interchange fees (the 

Durbin Amendment), will reduce our revenues by an estimated $139.8 million 

on an annualized basis. In total, our likely tally of annual compliance cost and 

revenue lost from these regulations is $342.6 million and would have represented 

28% of pre-tax income in 2011.
Nor is there any apparent end in sight to the imposition of new directives 
and rules. ˚e Dodd-Frank Act contains, by one estimate, 400 new rulemaking 

requirements, only 86 of which were ˝nalized by the start of 2012. It is impossible, 

of course, to assess our full cost to comply with these rules until they are 

promulgated. By virtue of having more than $50 billion in assets, a measure of 

size, with no consideration given to the activities in which we engage nor the 

merits of our actions, M&T has been deemed to be a ﬁsystemically importantﬂ 

˝nancial institution and will be subject to higher capital standards as well as 

costly new liquidity requirements.
A common feature of many of these new directives is a higher order of 
complexity than had heretofore been typical, particularly for Main Street banks 

like M&T
 which do not engage in excessive risk-taking and rely on fundamental 
banking services as their primary source of income. Utilization of these opaque 

and intricate methods as a means to prevent a crisis is at best questionable. It is 

worth keeping in mind that prior to the ˝nancial crisis, the Basel Committee had 

introduced Basel II international banking standards, which among other things 
xxiendorsed the use of complex ˝nancial models to measure the risks associated 
with on and o˛-balance sheet exposures Œ so-called advanced measurement 

approaches. ˚ese standards proved wholly inadequate in the crucible of the 

˝nancial crisis. Yet today, despite these failures, models have become more 

embedded into both regulation and basic accounting, a change which implies 

substantial increased cost. 
It is no small irony Œ it is, dare I say, a bitter one Œ that these costly 
requirements have been visited on a company such as ours and hundreds, if not 

thousands, like us who did little or nothing to cause the ˝nancial crisis Œ and 

were, in fact, in many ways victims of it. 
And, of course, the higher costs along 
with higher capital and liquidity requirements will inevitably diminish the 

availability and increase the cost of credit to business owners, entrepreneurs and 

innovators of our community.
 Indeed, one has the sense that little or no thought 
has been given to the cumulative e˛ect of new directives, both on costs and 

operations. One wishes, thus far in vain, for a clear, complete, simple and straight-

forward regulatory regime in which both consumers and banks know what to 

expect and could proceed accordingly, at reasonable expense.
BR
OA
DER IMPACTS
 AN
D UN
INTEN
DED C
ONSE
QU
ENCES
: In this context, one 
has to be concerned about the accumulated e˛ects of new mandates beyond the 

narrow terms of how they a˛ect banks. More broadly, there is reason to believe 

that regulation may provide incentives that distort the allocation of capital in 

ways that could be harmful to economic recovery. Speci˝cally, there are incentives 

for commercial banks to divert from their traditional roles Œ the same sort of 

activities which helped spark the housing bubble. ˚e proposed Basel III liquidity 

rules, for instance, call for banks to signi˝cantly increase their investments in 

government securities, leaving less capital for community-based loans which hold 

the most promise for potential economic progress. Such an unintended outcome 
xxiiis reminiscent of that which emerged from the 1992 Basel Accord, providing 
an incentive to invest in government debt, whether domestic or foreign, and in 

highly-rated derivative securities of all types including those backed by residential 

mortgages Œ all of which turned out to be more, not less, risky. ˚e presumption 

that certain prescribed assets would inherently carry less risk, a thesis clearly 

disproved in the recent crisis, along with the new proposed minimum level of 

government bond holdings, would continue the trend of driving resources away 

from commercial lending Œ with negative rami˝cations for ful˝lling legitimate 

credit needs. 
 New formulae from the FDIC are likely to have similar inadvertent 
consequences for the economy. Last spring, the FDIC began assessing insurance 

premiums based on assets rather than deposits, which it had done since its 

inception in 1933. As a result, a loan to ˝nance the construction of a company™s 

new building, an activity that produces jobs, carries insurance premiums that 

are three to four times as high as for commercial loans extended for unspeci˝ed 

purposes with no need for employment creation Œ arguably the greatest necessity 

of the current economy. Even more troubling is the fact that, under this formula, 

the mere association with real estate deems construction lending more risky 

regardless of how sturdy one™s underwriting or how much ﬁskin in the gameﬂ the 

entrepreneur is willing to commit. 
Ironically, new regulations may not only undermine economic recovery by 
diverting capital from traditional, community-based investment Œ they may well 

fail in their stated purpose of broadening the scope of supervision in the ˝nancial 

services industry. ˚e proposal under Basel III to essentially cap the amount of 

mortgage servicing rights that can be held by a regulated ˝nancial institution 

will likely push servicing away from banks and toward unregulated institutions. 

Initially, this activity will shi˙ to hedge funds and other non-banking institutions. 

Even companies like IBM have displayed their intent to move into mortgage 
xxiiiservicing. By limiting the boundaries of the traditional banking system, these 
regulations reduce the value of its franchise and increase the size of the shadow 

banking system which carries with it attendant consequences that were so vividly 

demonstrated in the great recession. 
Nor is the damage from new mandates and regulation merely projected or 
prospective. Many are already proving to be counterproductive for businesses and 

consumers alike. ˚e Durbin Amendment, for instance, was supposed to reduce 

costs for merchants. Instead it has resulted in higher transaction processing fees 
 for some small business owners. According to 
˛e Wall Street Journal
, many 
business owners who sell low priced goods like co˛ee and candy bars are now 

paying higher rates, when customers use their debit card for transactions that 
 are less than $10. ˚ese small merchants now are le˙ with some hard choices, 

such as raising prices, encouraging customers to pay in cash or dropping card 

payments altogether. 
˚e breathtakingly rapid pace of changing regulations makes it challenging 
for banks and regulators alike to understand the changes, let alone react to them 

in an e˜cient manner. ˚e fact that there are so many masters to whom banks 

today report makes it di˜cult for one hand to know what the other is doing, 

whether it relates to coordination among the various regulatory bodies or even 

among the various divisions within a single agency. 
FINDING A N
EW WA
Y 
So it is that the e˛ects of crisis, combined with a void of leadership, weigh on 
banks such as ours Œ and encumber the economy. We ˝nd ourselves at a point 

at which, we face not only the question of what approaches are right but how, 

in light of a leadership vacuum, can we restore our capacity to work together 

constructively and productively. It is no small task, given the number of agencies 

involved and the decibel level of politicians and the public at large. 
xxiv
We will not, in my own view, be able to make progress absent two key 
ingredients: trust and leadership. We must again have the sense that leaders, both 
public and private, will do their best to propose and consider ideas that will serve 

the general interest, not their own agendas. 
 To help recognize and preempt emerging new threats, it is crucial that 
there be an ongoing, at times informal, dialogue among bankers and regulators. 

Such exchanges would plausibly put focus on rising issues like cyber-crime 

that has already cost the American banking industry some $15 billion over the 

last ˝ve years. More importantly, these discussions should be premised not on 

confrontation nor framed by fear but, rather, based on the understanding that a 

safe and secure ˝nancial services system is a prerequisite for a healthy economy Œ 

arguably our most important, shared national goal. I know that we would be eager 

to share our own collective learning with the Federal Reserve and other regulators 

in order to allow them to understand the extent to which regulatory changes are 

likely to a˛ect the general well-being of our economy. I am sure other Main Street 

banks would be eager to do the same. Our goal is not to seek favors or special 

dispensation Œ but rather to have the chance to do our part in helping to cra˙ 
 a regulatory regime that does not impede, but rather enables sustainable 
 economic growth. 
In reˆecting on my years in banking and the situation we confront today, 
I am mindful of the fact that banks have traditionally played a clear, if limited, 

role in the economy: to gather savings and to ˝nance industry and commerce. 

Trading and speculation were nowhere included Œ nor should they be. Historically, 

bankers, moreover, were viewed as among the more responsible and ethical 

members of their communities. In my view, the vast majority still are and have 

been ill-served by those whose non-traditional approach have caused banks to be 

the targets of public opprobrium. Such is the case of the British banker who was 
xxvrecently stripped of his knighthood in the wake of his role in the ˝nancial crisis. 
It is time for regulators and, yes, protestors, to understand that all banks have not 

been equally culpable for the problems we face today. In other words, give us back 

our good name Œ and we will do our best to deserve it. 
ADAPTING TO CHANGEFor our part, at M&T we remain optimistic about our ability to retain our  
position among the ranks of the highest-performing banks, as gauged by  

return on tangible common equity. It is an assessment based on the quality of 
 our employees, our underwriting standards, our overall culture and our 

demonstrated ability, over the decades, to be a company that adapts, successfully, 

to changed circumstances. Our employees are forever working to do the right 

thing for our customers, communities and shareholders. Assuredly, no set of 

circumstances was as trying as those encountered last summer as we worked 

to complete our acquisition of Wilmington Trust. As any M&T veteran would 

attest, a conversion weekend is a series of carefully choreographed, interconnected 

events. Every hour of each day is accounted for and everyone has a clear role to 

play. On August 26th, a˙er months of careful preparation, over 300 of M&T™s 

best traveled to the Delaware market to convert nearly 50 branches and over 200 

ATMs. Hurricane Irene arrived at precisely the same time, bringing with it the 

potential to put a damper on our carefully laid plans. From closed roads to ˆash 

ˆoods and power outages, our employees stayed ˆexible to ensure that conversion 

activities proceeded on schedule. When branches opened on Monday it was 

business as usual for former Wilmington Trust customers. For M&T employees, 
 it was more of the same. 
Successful adaptation to change has been the norm at M&T for our 
customers, employees, and investors alike. We are con˝dent, though never 
 over-con˝dent, that record of success will continue. 
xxvi
Robert J. Bennett, Michael D. Buckley and Donald E. Foley will have completed 
their service on the Board of Directors of M&T Bank Corporation a˙er conclusion 

of the Annual Shareholders™ meeting on April 17, 2012. Messrs. Bennett and 

Buckley played a central role in expanding M&T into the regional community 

bank that we know today, helping architect our expansion into Syracuse and 

Pennsylvania, and building the leading market share franchise in Maryland and 

the Mid-Atlantic. We thank both for their stewardship, guidance and counsel 

for those many years and wish them well. We will continue to bene˝t from Mr. 

Foley™s counsel and guidance through his presence on the Trust and Investment 

Committee, as well as the New York City Advisory Board. Finally, I would also 

like to thank M&T™s 15,666 employees who do a wonderful job day in, day out, 

confronting and resolving issues and problems that they never had to deal 
 with before.
Robert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive O˜cer
February 23, 2012
xxvii
OFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman
Mark J. Czarnecki 
President 
Robert J. Bojdak 
Executive Vice President  

and Chief Credit O˜cer
Stephen J. Braunscheidel 
Executive Vice President
Atwood Collins III 
Executive Vice President
William J. Farrell, II 
Executive Vice President
Richard S. Gold 
Executive Vice President
Brian E. Hickey 
Executive Vice President
René F. Jones 
Executive Vice President  

and Chief Financial O˜cer
Darren J. King 
Executive Vice President
Kevin J. Pearson 
Executive Vice President 
Michele D. Trolli 
Executive Vice President and  

Chief Information O˜cer
D. Scott N. Warman 
Executive Vice President 

and Treasurer
John L. D™Angelo 
Senior Vice President  

and General Auditor
Drew J. P˝rrman 
Senior Vice President  

and General Counsel
Michael R. Spychala 
Senior Vice President  

and Controller
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira 
Vice Chairman 

Private Investor
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman
Brent D. Baird 
Private Investor
Robert J. Bennett 
Former Chairman of the Board 

M&T Bank Corporation 

Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo 
Former President and  

Chief Executive O˜cer 

Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady 
Executive Chairman 

Moog Inc.
Michael D. Buckley 
Former Group Chief Executive  

Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. 

Non-Executive Chairman 

DCC plc
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III 
Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki 
President
Donald E. Foley
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Wilmington Trust Corporation
Gary N. Geisel 
Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Provident Bankshares Corporation
Patrick W.E. Hodgson 

President 

Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King 
Chairman of the  

Executive Committee 

Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich 
Vice Chairman 

Rich Products Corporation  

and President  

Rich Entertainment Group
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and  

Chief Executive O˜cer 

M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington 
President 

H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
M&T BAN
K C
ORPORAT
IONOfficers and 
Directorsxxviii
M&T BAN
K Officers and 
DirectorsOFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman and  

Chairman and Chief Executive 

O˜cer 
 Œ Mid-Atlantic Division
Mark J. Czarnecki 
President
Executive Vice Presidents
James J. Beardi 
Robert J. Bojdak 

Stephen J. Braunscheidel 

Atwood Collins III 

John F. Cook 

William J. Farrell, II  

Richard S. Gold 

Mark A. Graham 

Brian E. Hickey 

René F. Jones 

Darren J. King 

Kevin J. Pearson 

Michele D. Trolli  

D. Scott N. Warman
Senior Vice Presidents
Je˛rey L. Barbeau 
John M. Beeson, Jr. 

Keith M. Belanger 

Peter M. Black 

Daniel M. Boscarino 

Timothy L. Brenner 

Ira A. Brown 

Robert H. Brown 

Daniel J. Burns 

Noel Carroll 

David K. Chamberlain 

August J. Chiasera 

Robert L. Cieslica, Sr. 

Janet M. Coletti 

Jerome W. Collier 

Cynthia L. Corliss 

R. Joe Crosswhite 

John L. D™Angelo 

Scott E. Dagenais 

Carol A. Dalton 

Ayan DasGupta 

Michael A. Drury 

Gary D. Dudish 

Donald I. Dussing, Jr. 

Peter J. Eliopoulos 

Ralph W. Emerson, Jr. 

Je˛rey A. Evershed 

Tari L. Flannery 

James M. Frank 
R. S. Fraundorf 

Robert S. Graber 

Sam Guerrieri, Jr. 

Robert V. Harra, Jr. 

Roger W. Hobby 

Carl W. Jordan 

Michael T. Keegan 

Nicholas P. Lambrow 

Michele V. Langdon 

Je˛rey A. Long 

Robert G. Loughrey 

Alfred F. Luhr, III 

Rex P. Macey 

Donald G. MacKelcan 

Christopher R. Madel 

Paula Mandell 

Gino A. Martocci 

Louis P. Mathews, Jr. 

Richard J. McCarthy 

Donna McClure 

Mark J. Mendel 

Christopher J. Minnich 

Paul D. Moore 

Michael S. Murchie 

Allen J. Naples 

Drew J. P˝rrman 

Paul T. Pitman 

Michael J. Quinlivan 

Christopher D. Randall 

Daniel J. Ripienski 

John P. Rumschik 

Charles Russella, Jr. 

Mahesh Sankaran 

Jack D. Sawyer 

Matthew N. Schiro 

Susan F. Sciarra 

Douglas A. Sheline 

Michael J. Shryne 

Glenn R. Small 

Philip M. Smith 

Matthew M. Speare 

Michael R. Spychala 

Kemp C. Stickney 

Susan M. Stinson 

Kenneth G. ˚ompson 

Michael J. Todaro 

Christopher E. Tolomeo 

Patrick M. Trainor 

Michael P. Wallace 

Linda J. Weinberg 

Je˛rey A. Wellington
DIRECTORS
Robert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira 
Vice Chairman 

Private Investor
Michael P. Pinto 

Vice Chairman and  

Chairman and Chief Executive 

O˜cer Œ Mid-Atlantic Division
Brent D. Baird 
Private Investor
Robert J. Bennett 
Former Chairman of the Board 

M&T Bank Corporation 

Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo 
Former President and  

Chief Executive O˜cer 

Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady 
Executive Chairman 

Moog Inc.
Michael D. Buckley 
Former Group Chief Executive  

Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. 

Non-Executive Chairman 

DCC plc
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III 
Former Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki 
President
Donald E. Foley
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Wilmington Trust Corporation
Gary N. Geisel 
Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Provident Bankshares Corporation
Patrick W.E. Hodgson 
President  

Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King 
Chairman of the  

Executive Committee 

Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich 
Vice Chairman  

Rich Products Corporation  

and President 

Rich Entertainment Group 
Robert E. Sadler, Jr. 

Former President and  

Chief Executive O˜cer 

M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington 
President 

H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
xxixREGIONAL P
RESIDENTSJe˛rey A. Wellington
 Bu˚alo
Allen J. Naples
 Central New York
Michael S. Murchie
 Central Pennsylvania
Robert H. Newton, Jr. 
Central Virginia
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 Delaware
Scott E. Dagenais 
Greater Baltimore  

Middle Market
Peter M. Black
Greater Washington  

and Northern Virginia
Michael T. Keegan
Hudson Valley North  

and Albany
Atwood Collins III
 Mid-Atlantic
Gino A. Martocci 
New York City  

and Long Island
Philip H. Johnson
 Northern Pennsylvania 
Ira A. Brown
 Philadelphia 
Daniel J. Burns
 Rochester
Peter G. Newman
 Southern New York
R. Joe Crosswhite
 Southern Pennsylvania
 Paula Mandell 
Tarrytown
DIRECTORS ADVISORY
 CO
UNCILSN˜˚ Y˛˝˙ Sˆˇˆ˜
Central New York Division
Aminy I. Audi
Robert J. Bennett

James V. Breuer

Carl V. Byrne

Richard R. Gri˜th

Robert H. Linn

J. Kemper Matt

Nicholas O. Matt

Robert U. Roberts

Debbie L. Sydow

John A. Zawadzki

Richard J. Zick
Hudson Valley Division
Elizabeth P. Allen
Kevin M. Bette

Nancy E. Carey Cassidy

Edward vK. Cunningham, Jr.

T. Je˛erson Cunningham III

Michael H. Graham

Christopher Madden

William Murphy
˚omas D. O™Connor, Jr.

Lewis J. Ruge

Albert K. Smiley

Archibald A. Smith III

Charles C. Tallardy, III

Peter Van Kleeck

Alan Yassky
Jamestown Division
Sebastian A. Baggiano
John R. Churchill 

Steven A. Godfrey

Joseph C. Johnson

Stan Lundine

Michael D. Metzger

Kim Peterson

Allen Short 

Michael J. Wellman
New York City/Long Island 
Division
Earle S. Altman
Jay I. Anderson

Brent D. Baird

Louis Brause

Patrick J. Callan

Lloyd M. Goldman

Peter Hauspurg

Gary Jacob 

Don M. Randel

Michael D. Sullivan

Alair A. Townsend
Rochester Division
William A. Buckingham 
R. Carlos Carballada

Timothy D. Fournier 

Jocelyn Goldberg-Schaible 

Laurence Kessler

Arnold Klinsky 

Anne M. Kress

Joseph M. Lobozzo, II

James H. Norman

Carolyn A. Portanova

John K. Purcell

Victor E. Salerno

Derace L. Scha˛er

Albert J. Simone

Amy L. Tait

Linda Cornell Weinstein
Southern New York Division
David M. Ahlers
George Akel, Jr. 

Daniel Babcock

Lee P. Bearsch

Richard J. Cole

Lawrence J. Schorr 

Robert R. Sprole 

Terry R. Wood
Pˇ/ 
Mˇ˝ˇ˘/ V˝˘ˇ / 

Wˆ Vˇ
Baltimore-Washington  
Division
˚omas S. Bozzuto 
Daniel J. Canzoniero 

Robert A. Chrencik 

Scott E. Dorsey 

Kevin R. Dunbar 
Gary N. Geisel 

John F. Jaeger 

Warner P. Mason 

Pamela Mazza 

˚omas R. Mullen 

John H. Phelps 

Marc B. Terrill
Central 
 Pennsylvania Division
Christopher M. Cicconi
Mark X. DiSanto 

Rolen E. Ferris

Scott A. Heintzelman

Martin G. Lane, Jr.

Ronald M. Leitzel

Geo˛rey N. Miller 

Craig Nitterhouse 

Ivo V. Otto, III  

William F. Rothman

Lynn C. Rotz  

Herbert E. Sandifer

John D. Sheridan

Frank R. Sourbeer 

Daniel K. Sunderland 

Sondra Wolfe Elias
Central Virginia Division
Franco Ambrogi 
Richard Barrett 

Otis L. Brown 

Robert J. Clark 

Linda Clevenger 

John G. Coor 

Peter Francisco 

Gilbert P. Harris, Jr. 

Bart H. Mitchell 

Gary W. Parker 

J. Lynn Parsons 

Michael Patrick

Charles W. Payne 

Frank L. Robinson

Robert S. Seal 

Katheryn E. Surface Burks 

Melanie S. ˚ompson
Chesapeake Upper  
Shore Division
Richard Bernstein
Lawrence L. Davis

Hugh E. Grunden

William W. McAllister, Jr.

Lee ﬁNashﬂ McMahan
Chesapeake Lower  
Shore Division
Michael G. Abercrombie, Jr.
John H. Harrison

John M. McClellan

James F. Morris

John M. Stern
Eastern  
Pennsylvania Division
A. Joseph Antanavage
Debra C. Blaschak

Paul J. Datte

Richard E. Fehr

Steven I. Field

Roy A. Heim

Donald E. Jacobs

Joseph H. Jones, Jr.
David C. Laudeman

Eric M. Mika

Stephen M. Moyer

Robert P. Powell

Gerald A. Ravitz

F. Dale Schoeneman

Larry A. Wittig
Northeast  
Mid-Atlantic Division
Richard Alter
Clarence C. Boyle, Jr.

Nicole A. Funk

John N. Kunkel

James Lambdin

˚omas C. Mottley

Paul T. Muddiman

John D. Pursell Jr.

John ˚omas Sadowski, Jr.

Kimberly L. Wagner
Craig A. Ward
Northeastern  

Pennsylvania Division
Richard S. Bishop
Christopher L. Borton

Maureen M. Bu˛alino

Stephen N. Clemente

Harold E. Flack, II

Robert Gill

˚omas F. Torbik

Murray U˘erg
Northern  
Pennsylvania Division
Sherwin O. Albert, Jr.
Je˛rey A. Cerminaro

Cli˛ord R. Coldren

Timothy J. Crotty

James E. Douthat

Charlene A. Friedman

Edward A. Friedman

Steven P. Johnson

Kenneth R. Levitzky

Robert E. More

John D. Rinehart

J. David Smith

Donald E. Stringfellow

Paul M. Walison
Philadelphia Division
Steven A. Berger
Ruth S. Gehring

Robert N. Reeves, Jr.

Robert W. Sorrell

Steven L. Sugarman

Christina Wagoner
Western  
Pennsylvania Division
Jodi L. Cessna
Paul I. Detweiler, III

Philip E. Devorris

Michael A. Fiore

Joseph A. Grappone

Daniel R. Lawruk

Gerald E. Murray

Robert F. Pennington

Joseph S. Sheetz

William T. Ward
J. Douglas Wolf 
M&T BAN
K Regional Management and 
Directors Advisory Councils
xxxSEC
 F
ORM 10-K
UNITEDSTATESSECURITIESANDEXCHANGECOMMISSION
Washington,D.C.20549
Form10-K
ÍANNUALREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
ForthefiscalyearendedDecember31,2011
or‘TRANSITIONREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)

OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
Commissionfilenumber1-9861
M&TBANKCORPORATION
(Exactnameofregistrantasspecifiedinitscharter)
NewYork
16-0968385(Stateofincorporation)
(I.R.S.EmployerIdentificationNo.)
OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork
14203(Addressofprincipalexecutiveoffices)
(ZipCode)
Registrant™stelephonenumber,includingareacode:
716-842-5445SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(b)oftheAct:
TitleofEachClass
NameofEachExchangeonWhichRegistered
CommonStock,$.50parvalue
NewYorkStockExchange
SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(g)oftheAct:
8.234%CapitalSecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustI
(andtheGuaranteeofM&TBankCorporationwithrespectthereto)
(Titleofclass)
8.234%JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesof
M&TBankCorporation
(Titleofclass)
Indicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisawell-knownseasonedissuer,asdefinedinRule405ofthe
SecuritiesAct.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisnotrequiredtofilereportspursuanttoSection13orSection15(d)
oftheAct.Yes
‘NoÍIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrant(1)hasfiledallreportsrequiredtobefiledbySection13or
15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934duringthepreceding12months,and(2)hasbeensubjecttosuch
filingrequirementsforthepast90days.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistranthassubmittedelectronicallyandpostedonitscorporateWeb
site,ifany,everyInteractiveDataFilerequiredtobesubmittedandpostedpursuanttoRule405of

RegulationS-Tduringthepreceding12months(orforsuchshorterperiodthattheregistrantwasrequiredto

submitandpostsuchfiles).Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkifdisclosureofdelinquentfilerspursuanttoItem405ofRegulationS-Kisnot
containedherein,andwillnotbecontained,tothebestofregistrant™sknowledge,indefinitiveproxyor

informationstatementsincorporatedbyreferenceinPartIIIofthisForm10-Koranyamendmenttothis

Form10-K.
‘Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisalargeacceleratedfiler,anacceleratedfiler,a
non-acceleratedfiler,orasmallerreportingcompany.Seethedefinitionsofﬁlargeacceleratedfiler,ﬂﬁaccelerated

filer,ﬂandﬁsmallerreportingcompanyﬂinRule12b-2oftheExchangeAct.(Checkone):
Largeacceleratedfiler
ÍAcceleratedfiler
‘Non-acceleratedfiler
‘Smallerreportingcompany
‘(Donotcheckifasmallerreportingcompany)
Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisashellcompany(asdefinedinRule12b-2ofthe
Act).Yes
‘NoÍAggregatemarketvalueoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,heldbynon-affiliatesoftheregistrant,
computedbyreferencetotheclosingpriceasofthecloseofbusinessonJune30,2011:$9,926,718,437.
NumberofsharesoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,outstandingasofthecloseofbusinesson
February10,2012:126,406,098shares.
DocumentsIncorporatedByReference:
(1)PortionsoftheProxyStatementforthe2012AnnualMeetingofShareholdersofM&TBankCorporation
inPartsIIandIII.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2011
CROSS-REFERENCESHEET
Form10-K
PagePARTI
Item1.Business
.........................................................4
StatisticaldisclosurepursuanttoGuide3
I.Distributionofassets,liabilities,andshareholders™equity;interestrates
andinterestdifferential
A.Averagebalancesheets
.......................................44
B.Interestincome/expenseandresultingyieldorrateonaverage
interest-earningassets(includingnon-accrualloans)andinterest-

bearingliabilities
............................................44
C.Rate/volumevariances
.......................................25
II.Investmentportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
...........................................23
B.Maturityscheduleandweightedaverageyield
....................78
C.Aggregatecarryingvalueofsecuritiesthatexceedtenpercentof
shareholders™equity
.........................................113
III.Loanportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
...........................................23,116
B.Maturitiesandsensitivitiestochangesininterestrates
.............76
C.Riskelements
Nonaccrual,pastdueandrenegotiatedloans
.....................57,118-119
Actualandproformainterestoncertainloans
....................119,125
Nonaccrualpolicy
...........................................104
Loanconcentrations–
.......................................66
IV.Summaryofloanlossexperience
A.Analysisoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.........................56,122-127
Factorsinfluencingmanagement™sjudgmentconcerningtheadequacy
oftheallowanceandprovision––
............................55-66,105,122-127
B.Allocationoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.......................65,122,127
V.Deposits
A.Averagebalancesandrates
....................................44
B.Maturityscheduleofdomestictimedepositswithbalancesof$100,000
ormore
...................................................79
VI.Returnonequityandassets
.......................................25,38,82-83,87
VII.Short-termborrowings
..........................................132
Item1A.RiskFactors
...................................................25-28
Item1B.UnresolvedStaffComments
......................................28
Item2.Properties
.....................................................28
Item3.LegalProceedings
...............................................28-29
Item4.MineSafetyDisclosures
..........................................29
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
................................29-30
PARTII
Item5.MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedShareholderMattersand
IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
...............................30-32
A.Principalmarket
............................................30
Marketprices
..............................................94
B.Approximatenumberofholdersatyear-end
.....................23
2Form10-K
PageC.Frequencyandamountofdividendsdeclared
....................24-25,94,102
D.Restrictionsondividends
.....................................8-16
E.Securitiesauthorizedforissuanceunderequitycompensationplans..31,136-138
F.Performancegraph
..........................................31-32
G.Repurchasesofcommonstock
................................32
Item6.SelectedFinancialData
..........................................33
A.Selectedconsolidatedyear-endbalances
.........................23
B.Consolidatedearnings,etc
....................................24
Item7.Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResults
ofOperations
..................................................33-95
Item7A.QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk
............96
Item8.FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData
.......................96
A.ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
.............97
B.ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
.........98
C.ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2011and2010
........99
D.ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,
2011,2010and2009
........................................100
E.ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,
2011,2010and2009
........................................101
F.ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYears
endedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
.......................102
G.NotestoFinancialStatements
.................................103-171
H.QuarterlyTrends
...........................................94
Item9.ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingand
FinancialDisclosure
.............................................172
Item9A.ControlsandProcedures
.........................................172
A.Conclusionsofprincipalexecutiveofficerandprincipalfinancial
officerregardingdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures
..............172
B.Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancial
reporting.................................................172
C.Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm
.........172
D.Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
...............172
Item9B.OtherInformation
.............................................172
PARTIII
Item10.Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance
...............172
Item11.ExecutiveCompensation
.........................................172
Item12.SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementand
RelatedStockholderMatters
......................................172-173
Item13.CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirector
Independence..................................................173
Item14.PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices
.............................173
PARTIV
Item15.ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules
.........................173
SIGNATURES..........................................................174-175
EXHIBITINDEX
........................................................176-178
3PARTI
Item1.
Business.M&TBankCorporation(ﬁRegistrantﬂorﬁM&Tﬂ)isaNewYorkbusinesscorporationwhichisregisteredas
afinancialholdingcompanyundertheBankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended(ﬁBHCAﬂ)andas

abankholdingcompanyunderArticleIII-AoftheNewYorkBankingLaw(ﬁBankingLawﬂ).Theprincipal

executiveofficesoftheRegistrantarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.TheRegistrant

wasincorporatedinNovember1969.TheRegistrantanditsdirectandindirectsubsidiariesarecollectively

referredtohereinastheﬁCompany.ﬂAsofDecember31,2011theCompanyhadconsolidatedtotalassetsof

$77.9billion,depositsof$59.4billionandshareholders™equityof$9.3billion.TheCompanyhad14,235

full-timeand1,431part-timeemployeesasofDecember31,2011.
AtDecember31,2011,theRegistranthadtwowhollyownedbanksubsidiaries:M&TBankand
WilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,N.A.ﬂ).Thebankscollectivelyofferawide

rangeofretailandcommercialbanking,trust,wealthmanagementandinvestmentservicestotheir

customers.AtDecember31,2011,M&TBankrepresented99%ofconsolidatedassetsoftheCompany.
TheCompanyfromtimetotimeconsidersacquiringbanks,thriftinstitutions,branchofficesof
banksorthriftinstitutions,orotherbusinesseswithinmarketscurrentlyservedbytheCompanyorinother

locationsthatwouldcomplementtheCompany™sbusinessoritsgeographicreach.TheCompanyhas

pursuedacquisitionopportunitiesinthepast,continuestoreviewdifferentopportunities,includingthe

possibilityofmajoracquisitions,andintendstocontinuethispractice.
SubsidiariesM&TBankisabankingcorporationthatisincorporatedunderthelawsoftheStateofNewYork.M&T

BankisamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemandtheFederalHomeLoanBankSystem,anditsdeposits

areinsuredbytheFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)uptoapplicablelimits.M&Tacquired

alloftheissuedandoutstandingsharesofthecapitalstockofM&TBankinDecember1969.Thestockof

M&TBankrepresentsamajorassetofM&T.M&TBankoperatesunderachartergrantedbytheStateof

NewYorkin1892,andthecontinuityofitsbankingbusinessistracedtotheorganizationofthe

ManufacturersandTradersBankin1856.TheprincipalexecutiveofficesofM&TBankarelocatedatOne

M&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.AsofDecember31,2011,M&TBankhad774domesticbanking

officeslocatedthroughoutNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,and

theDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,Canada,andanofficein

GeorgeTown,CaymanIslands.AsofDecember31,2011,M&TBankhadconsolidatedtotalassetsof$76.9

billion,depositsof$60.1billionandshareholder™sequityof$9.7billion.ThedepositliabilitiesofM&TBank

areinsuredbytheFDICthroughitsDepositInsuranceFund(ﬁDIFﬂ).Asacommercialbank,M&TBank

offersabroadrangeoffinancialservicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalclients,

governmentalentitiesandfinancialinstitutionslocatedinitsmarkets.Lendingislargelyfocusedon

consumersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,northernVirginiaand

Washington,D.C.,andonsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansare

originatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstates.Inaddition,theCompanyconductslendingactivitiesin

variousstatesthroughothersubsidiaries.M&TBankandcertainofitssubsidiariesalsooffercommercial

mortgageloanssecuredbyincomeproducingpropertiesorpropertiesusedbyborrowersinatradeor

business.AdditionalfinancialservicesareprovidedthroughotheroperatingsubsidiariesoftheCompany.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.(formerlynamedM&TBank,NationalAssociation),anationalbanking
associationandamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemandtheFDIC,commencedoperationson

October2,1995.ThedepositliabilitiesofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.areinsuredbytheFDICthroughtheDIF.

ThemainofficeofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.islocatedat1100NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware

19890.AsecondofficeislocatedinOakfield,NewYork.Historically,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.offered

selecteddepositandloanproductsonanationwidebasis,throughdirectmail,telephonemarketing

techniquesandtheInternet.Presently,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.alsooffersvarioustrustandwealth

managementservices.AsofDecember31,2011,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadtotalassetsof$1.1billion,

depositsof$410millionandshareholder™sequityof$389million.
WilmingtonTrustCompany,awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasa
DelawarebankandtrustcompanyinMarch1901andamendeditscharterinJuly2011tobecomeanon-

depositorytrustcompany.WilmingtonTrustCompanyprovidesavarietyofDelawarebasedtrust,fiduciary

andcustodialservicestoitsclients.AsofDecember31,2011,WilmingtonTrustCompanyhadtotalassetsof
4$910millionandshareholder™sequityof$533million.TheheadquartersofWilmingtonTrustCompanyare
locatedat1100NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware19890.
M&TLifeInsuranceCompany(ﬁM&TLifeInsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,was
incorporatedasanArizonabusinesscorporationinJanuary1984.M&TLifeInsuranceisacreditreinsurer

whichreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbytheCompany™sconsumerloan

customers.AsofDecember31,2011,M&TLifeInsurancehadassetsof$17millionandshareholder™sequity

of$16million.M&TLifeInsurancerecordedrevenuesof$1millionduring2011.HeadquartersofM&TLife

Insurancearelocatedat101NorthFirstAvenue,Phoenix,Arizona85003.
M&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.(ﬁM&TInsuranceAgencyﬂ),awhollyownedinsuranceagency
subsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasaNewYorkcorporationinMarch1955.M&TInsurance

Agencyprovidesinsuranceagencyservicesprincipallytothecommercialmarket.AsofDecember31,2011,

M&TInsuranceAgencyhadassetsof$48millionandshareholder™sequityof$32million.M&TInsurance

Agencyrecordedrevenuesof$24millionduring2011.TheheadquartersofM&TInsuranceAgencyare

locatedat285DelawareAvenue,Buffalo,NewYork14202.
M&TMortgageReinsuranceCompany,Inc.(ﬁM&TReinsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryof
M&TBank,wasincorporatedasaVermontbusinesscorporationinJuly1999.M&TReinsuranceentersinto

reinsurancecontractswithinsurancecompanieswhoinsureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™s

paymentdefaultinconnectionwithM&TBank-relatedmortgageloans.M&TReinsurancereceivesashare

ofthepremiumforthosepoliciesinexchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofborrower

default.AsofDecember31,2011,M&TReinsurancehadassetsof$31millionandshareholder™sequityof

$19million.M&TReinsurancerecordedapproximately$3millionofrevenueduring2011.M&T

Reinsurance™sprincipalandregisteredofficeisat148CollegeStreet,Burlington,Vermont05401.
M&TRealEstateTrust(ﬁM&TRealEstateﬂ)isaMarylandRealEstateInvestmentTrustthatwas
formedthroughthemergeroftwoseparatesubsidiaries,buttracesitsorigintotheincorporationofM&T

RealEstate,Inc.inJuly1995.M&TRealEstateengagesincommercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloan

servicingtoM&TBank.AsofDecember31,2011,M&TRealEstatehadassetsof$16.3billion,common

shareholder™sequityof$15.5billion,andpreferredshareholders™equity,consistingof9%fixed-rate

preferredstock(parvalue$1,000),of$1million.Alloftheoutstandingcommonstockand89%ofthe

preferredstockofM&TRealEstateisownedbyM&TBank.Theremaining11%ofM&TRealEstate™s

outstandingpreferredstockisownedbyofficersorformerofficersoftheCompany.M&TRealEstate

recorded$763millionofrevenuein2011.TheheadquartersofM&TRealEstatearelocatedatM&TCenter,

OneFountainPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation(ﬁM&TRealtyCapitalﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationinOctober1973.M&TRealtyCapitalengagesinmultifamily

commercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloanservicingtopurchasersoftheloansitoriginates.Asof

December31,2011,M&TRealtyCapitalserviced$9.0billionofcommercialmortgageloansfor

non-affiliatesandhadassetsof$339millionandshareholder™sequityof$69million.M&TRealtyCapital

recordedrevenuesof$69millionin2011.TheheadquartersofM&TRealtyCapitalarelocatedat25South

CharlesStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
M&TSecurities,Inc.(ﬁM&TSecuritiesﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBankthatwas
incorporatedasaNewYorkbusinesscorporationinNovember1985.M&TSecuritiesisregisteredasa

broker/dealerundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,andasaninvestmentadvisorunder

theInvestmentAdvisorsActof1940,asamended(theﬁInvestmentAdvisorsActﬂ).M&TSecuritiesis

licensedasalifeinsuranceagentineachstatewhereM&TBankoperatesbranchofficesandinanumberof

otherstates.Itprovidessecuritiesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices.AsofDecember

31,2011,M&TSecuritieshadassetsof$50millionandshareholder™sequityof$30million.M&TSecurities

recorded$85millionofrevenueduring2011.TheheadquartersofM&TSecuritiesarelocatedatOneM&T

Plaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.(ﬁWTInvestmentAdvisorsﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryof
M&TBankandformerlyknownasMTBInvestmentAdvisorspriortoitsnamechangeonJanuary10,2012,was

incorporatedasaMarylandcorporationonJune30,1995.WTInvestmentAdvisors,aregisteredinvestment

advisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsAct,servesasinvestmentadvisortotheMTBGroupofFunds,afamilyof

proprietarymutualfunds,andinstitutionalclients.AsofDecember31,2011,WTInvestmentAdvisorshadassets

of$20millionandshareholder™sequityof$17million.WTInvestmentAdvisorsrecordedrevenuesof$29million

in2011.TheheadquartersofWTInvestmentAdvisorsarelocatedat100EastPrattStreet,Baltimore,Maryland

21202.5RodneySquareManagementCorporation(ﬁRodneySquareManagementﬂ),awhollyowned
subsidiaryofM&T,wasincorporatedinSeptember1981asaDelawarecorporation.RodneySquare
ManagementisregisteredasaninvestmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandservesasthe

investmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds.RodneySquare

Managementhadassetsof$391thousandandshareholder™sequityof$301thousandasofDecember31,

2011.RodneySquareManagementhadrevenuesof$2millionfromMay16toDecember31,2011.The

headquartersofRodneySquareManagementarelocatedat1100NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,

Delaware19890.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentManagement,LLC(ﬁWTIMﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T
andwasincorporatedinDecember2001asaGeorgialimitedliabilitycompany.WTIMisaregistered

investmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandservesastheprimarysub-advisortothe

WilmingtonFundsandprovidesinvestmentmanagementservicestootherclients,includingcertainprivate

funds.WTIM™sheadquartersislocatedatTerminus27thFloor,3280PeachtreeRoadN.E.,Atlanta,Georgia

30305.AsofDecember31,2011,WTIMhadassetsof$21millionandshareholder™sequityof$19million.

WTIMhadrevenuesof$9millionfromMay16toDecember31,2011.
OnFebruary21,2012,theshareholdersoftheWilmingtonFundsapprovedthereorganizationof
twelveWilmingtonFundsintothesurvivingMTBGroupofFunds,whichwillberenamedasthe

WilmingtonFundsupontheclosingofthereorganizationonoraboutMarch9,2012.Followingthe

reorganization,RodneySquareManagementwillberenamedWilmingtonFundsManagementCorporation

andwillcontinueastheinvestmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds,andWTInvestmentAdvisorswill

becometheprimarysub-advisortotheWilmingtonFunds.Afterthereorganization,WTIMwillcontinueto

provideinvestmentmanagementservicestootherclients,includingcertainprivatefunds.
TheRegistrantanditsbankingsubsidiarieshaveanumberofotherspecial-purposeorinactive
subsidiaries.Theseothersubsidiariesdidnotrepresent,individuallyandcollectively,asignificantportionof

theCompany™sconsolidatedassets,netincomeandshareholders™equityatDecember31,2011.
SegmentInformation,PrincipalProducts/ServicesandForeignOperations
InformationabouttheRegistrant™sbusinesssegmentsisincludedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements

filedherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataﬂandisfurtherdiscussedin

PartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂ

TheRegistrant™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponitsinternalprofitabilityreporting

system,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunitshavebeencombinedfor

segmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsandservices,thetypeofcustomer

andthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,

CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingand

RetailBanking.TheCompany™sinternationalactivitiesarediscussedinnote17ofNotestoFinancial

StatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
Theonlyactivitiesthat,asaclass,contributed10%ormoreofthesumofconsolidatedinterest
incomeandotherincomeinanyofthelastthreeyearswereinterestonloansandinvestmentsecuritiesand

feesforprovidingdepositaccountservices.Theamountofincomefromsuchsourcesduringthoseyearsis

setforthontheCompany™sConsolidatedStatementofIncomefiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancial

StatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
SupervisionandRegulationoftheCompany
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttotheextensiveregulatoryframeworkapplicabletobankandfinancial

holdingcompaniesandtheirsubsidiaries.RegulationoffinancialinstitutionssuchasM&Tandits

subsidiariesisintendedprimarilyfortheprotectionofdepositors,theFDIC™sDIFandthebankingsystemas

awhole,andgenerallyisnotintendedfortheprotectionofstockholders,creditorsorotherinvestors.

DescribedbelowarethematerialelementsofselectedlawsandregulationsapplicabletoM&Tandits

subsidiaries.Thedescriptionsarenotintendedtobecompleteandarequalifiedintheirentiretybyreference

tothefulltextofthestatutesandregulationsdescribed.Changesinapplicablelaworregulation,andintheir

applicationbyregulatoryagencies,cannotbepredicted,buttheymayhaveamaterialeffectonthebusiness

andresultsofM&Tanditssubsidiaries.
6OverviewM&TisregisteredwiththeBoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveBoardSystem(theﬁFederalReserve

Boardﬂ)asabankholdingcompanyundertheBHCA.Assuch,M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothe

supervision,examinationandreportingrequirementsoftheBHCAandtheregulationsoftheFederal

ReserveBoard.
Ingeneral,theBHCAlimitsthebusinessofabankholdingcompany(ﬁBHCﬂ)tobanking,managing
orcontrollingbanksandotheractivitiesthattheFederalReserveBoardhasdeterminedtobesoclosely

relatedtobankingastobeaproperincidentthereto.Inaddition,bankholdingcompaniesthatqualifyand

electtobefinancialholdingcompaniesmayengageinanyactivity,oracquireandretainthesharesofa

companyengagedinanyactivity,thatiseither(i)financialinnatureorincidentaltosuchfinancialactivity

(asdeterminedbytheFederalReserveBoardinconsultationwiththeSecretaryoftheTreasury)or

(ii)complementarytoafinancialactivityanddoesnotposeasubstantialrisktothesafetyandsoundnessof

depositoryinstitutionsorthefinancialsystemgenerally(assolelydeterminedbytheFederalReserveBoard),

withoutpriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoard.Activitiesthatarefinancialinnatureincludesecurities

underwritinganddealing,insuranceunderwritingandmakingmerchantbankinginvestments.
Tomaintainfinancialholdingcompanystatus,afinancialholdingcompanyandallofitsdepository
institutionsubsidiariesmustbeﬁwellcapitalizedﬂandﬁwellmanaged.ﬂM&Tbecameafinancialholding

companyonMarch1,2011.Ifafinancialholdingcompanyfailstocontinuetomeetanyoftheprerequisites

forfinancialholdingcompanystatusafterengaginginactivitiesnotpermissibleforbankholdingcompanies

thathavenotelectedtobetreatedasfinancialholdingcompanies,thecompanymustenterintoan

agreementwiththeFederalReserveBoardtocomplywithallapplicablecapitalandmanagement

requirements.Ifthecompanydoesnotreturntocompliancewithin180days,theFederalReserveBoard

mayorderthecompanytodivestitssubsidiarybanksorthecompanymaydiscontinueordivestinvestments

incompaniesengagedinactivitiespermissibleonlyforabankholdingcompanyelectingtobetreatedasa

financialholdingcompany.Inorderforafinancialholdingcompanytocommenceanynewactivity

permittedbytheBHCAortoacquireacompanyengagedinanynewactivitypermittedbytheBHCA,each

insureddepositoryinstitutionsubsidiaryofthefinancialholdingcompanymusthaveatleastaﬁsatisfactoryﬂ

ratingundertheCommunityReinvestmentActof1977(theﬁCRAﬂ).Seethesectioncaptioned

ﬁCommunityReinvestmentActﬂincludedelsewhereinthisitem.
Currentfederallawalsoestablishesasystemoffunctionalregulationunderwhichthefederalbanking
agencieswillregulatethebankingactivitiesoffinancialholdingcompaniesandbanks™financialsubsidiaries,

theU.S.SecuritiesandExchangeCommissionwillregulatetheirsecuritiesactivities,andstateinsurance

regulatorswillregulatetheirinsuranceactivities.Rulesdevelopedbythefederalfinancialinstitutions

regulatorsundertheselawsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,

allowconsumerstopreventthedisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtononaffiliatedthirdparties.
RecentDevelopments
TheeventsofthepastfewyearshaveledtonumerousnewlawsintheUnitedStatesandinternationallyfor

financialinstitutions.TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(theﬁDodd-Frank

ActﬂorﬁDodd-Frankﬂ),whichwasenactedinJuly2010,significantlyrestructuresthefinancialregulatory

regimeintheUnitedStatesandprovidesforenhancedsupervisionandprudentialstandardsfor,among

otherthings,bankholdingcompanieslikeM&Tthathavetotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore.

TheimplicationsoftheDodd-FrankActfortheCompany™sbusinesseswilldependtoalargeextentonthe

mannerinwhichrulesadoptedpursuanttotheDodd-FrankActareimplementedbytheprimaryU.S.

financialregulatoryagenciesaswellaspotentialchangesinmarketpracticesandstructuresinresponseto

therequirementsoftheDodd-FrankActandfinancialreformsinotherjurisdictions.Amongotherthings:
ŠDodd-Frankrepealedthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,

therebypermittingdepositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts.
ŠDodd-Frankcentralizedresponsibilityforconsumerfinancialprotectionbycreatinganewagency,

theConsumerFinancialProtectionBureau(ﬁCFPBﬂ),andgivingitresponsibilityforimplementing,

examiningandenforcingcompliancewithfederalconsumerprotectionlaws.
ŠDodd-Frankprovidedthatdebitcardinterchangefeesmustbereasonableandproportionaltothe

costincurredbytheissuerwithrespecttothetransaction.ThisprovisionisknownastheﬁDurbin

Amendment.ﬂInJune2011,theFederalReserveBoardadoptedregulationssettingthemaximum

permissibleinterchangefeeasthesumof21centspertransactionand5basispointsmultipliedby

thevalueofthetransaction,withanadditionaladjustmentofuptoonecentpertransactionifthe
7issuerimplementscertainfraud-preventionstandards.Formoreinformationregardingtheimpactof
theDurbinAmendmentonM&T™sresultsofoperations,seePartII,Item7.
ŠDodd-Frankcreatedanewsystemicriskoversightbody,theFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil

(ﬁFSOCﬂ),tooverseeandcoordinatetheeffortsoftheprimaryU.S.financialregulatoryagenciesin

establishingregulationstoaddressfinancialstabilityconcerns.
ŠDodd-FrankdirectstheFSOCtomakerecommendationstotheFederalReserveBoardasto

enhancedsupervisionandprudentialstandardsapplicabletolarge,interconnectedfinancial

institutions,includingasindicatedabovebankholdingcompanieslikeM&Twithtotalconsolidated

assetsof$50billionormore(oftenreferredtoasﬁsystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutionsﬂ),and

authorizestheFederalReserveBoardtoestablishsuchstandardseitheronitsownoruponthe

recommendationsoftheFSOC.Dodd-Frankmandatesthattherequirementsapplicableto

systemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutionsbemorestringentthanthoseapplicabletoother

financialcompanies.InDecember2011,theFederalReserveBoardissuedforpubliccommenta

noticeofproposedrulemakingestablishingenhancedprudentialstandardsresponsivetothese

provisionsfor:
Šrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsandleveragedlimits;
Šstresstestingofcapital;
Šliquidityrequirements;
Šoverallriskmanagementrequirements;
Šresolutionplanandcreditexposurereporting;and
Šconcentration/creditexposurelimits.
Commentsontheproposedrules(theﬁProposedSIFIRulesﬂ)areduebyMarch31,2012.The

ProposedSIFIRulesaddressawide,diversearrayofregulatoryareas,eachofwhichishighly

complex.Insomecasestheywouldimplementfinancialregulatoryrequirementsbeingproposedfor

thefirsttime,andinothersover-lapwithotherregulatoryreforms(includingtheBaselIIIcapital

andliquidityreformsdiscussedbelowinthissection).Therequirementsgenerallywillbecome

effectiveonthefirstdayofthefifthcalendarquarteraftertheeffectivedateofthefinalrule,although

certainrequirementshavedifferenttransitionperiods.M&TisanalyzingtheimpactoftheProposed

SIFIRulesonitsbusinesses.However,thefullimpactwillnotbeknownuntiltherules,andother

regulatoryinitiativesthatoverlapwiththerules,arefinalizedandtheircombinedimpactscanbe

understood.ŠDodd-FrankrequiresvariousU.S.financialregulatoryagenciestoimplementcomprehensiverules

governingthesupervision,structure,tradingandregulationofswapandover-the-counterderivative

marketsandparticipants.Dodd-Frankrequiresalargenumberofrulemakinginthisarea,manyof

whicharenotyetfinal.Oncetheserulesarefinalized,theycouldaffectthewayM&Torits

subsidiariesoperate,andchangestothemarketsandparticipantscouldimpactbusinessmodelsand

profitabilityofM&Toritssubsidiaries.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalfinancialregulatoryagenciestoadoptrulesthatprohibit
banksandtheiraffiliatesfromengaginginproprietarytradingandinvestinginandsponsoringcertain
unregisteredinvestmentcompanies(definedashedgefundsandprivateequityfunds),withimplementation

startingasearlyasJuly2012.ThestatutoryprovisioniscommonlycalledtheﬁVolckerRuleﬂ.InOctober

2011,federalregulatorsproposedrulestoimplementtheVolckerRulethatincludedanextensiverequestfor

commentsontheproposal,whichwereduebyFebruary13,2012.Theproposedrulesarehighlycomplex,

andmanyaspectsoftheirapplicationremainuncertain.Basedontheproposedrules,M&Tdoesnot

currentlyanticipatethattheVolckerRulewillhaveamaterialeffectontheoperationsofM&Tandits

subsidiaries.Untilafinalruleisadopted,theprecisefinancialimpactoftheruleonM&T,itscustomersor

thefinancialindustrymoregenerally,cannotbedetermined.
Newlawsorregulationsorchangestoexistinglawsandregulations(includingchangesin
interpretationorenforcement)couldmateriallyadverselyaffectM&T™sfinancialconditionorresultsof

operations.Asdiscussedfurtherthroughoutthissection,manyaspectsoftheDodd-FrankActaresubjectto

furtherrulemakingandwilltakeeffectoverseveralyears,makingitdifficulttoanticipatetheoverall

financialimpactonM&Tanditssubsidiariesorthefinancialservicesindustrygenerally.Inadditiontothe
8discussioninthissection,seeﬁRecentLegislativeDevelopmentsﬂinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™s
DiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsﬂforadiscussionofthepotential

impactlegislativeandregulatoryreformsmayhaveontheCompany™sresultsofoperationsandfinancial

condition.DividendsTheRegistrantisalegalentityseparateanddistinctfromitsbankingandothersubsidiaries.Historically,the

majorityoftheRegistrant™srevenuehasbeenfromdividendspaidtotheRegistrantbyitssubsidiarybanks.

M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubject,underoneormoreofthebankinglaws,torestrictions

ontheamountofdividenddeclarations.FuturedividendpaymentstotheRegistrantbyitssubsidiarybanks

willbedependentonanumberoffactors,includingtheearningsandfinancialconditionofeachsuchbank,

andaresubjecttothelimitationsreferredtoinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithin

PartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData,ﬂandtootherstatutorypowersofbank

regulatoryagencies.
Aninsureddepositoryinstitutionisprohibitedfrommakinganycapitaldistributiontoitsowner,
includinganydividend,if,aftermakingsuchdistribution,thedepositoryinstitutionfailstomeetthe

requiredminimumlevelforanyrelevantcapitalmeasure,includingtherisk-basedcapitaladequacyand

leveragestandardsdiscussedherein.
DividendpaymentsbyM&TtoitsshareholdersandstockrepurchasesbyM&Taresubjecttothe
oversightoftheFederalReserveBoard.AsdescribedbelowundertheheadingﬁFederalReserveBoard™s

ComprehensiveCapitalAssessmentReviewﬂ,dividendsandstockrepurchasesgenerallymayonlybepaidor

madeunderacapitalplanastowhichtheFederalReserveBoardhasnotobjected.
AsdescribedhereinundertheheadingﬁU.S.TreasuryCapitalPurchaseProgramﬂ,inconnection
withtheissuanceofSeriesAPreferredStocktotheU.S.DepartmentoftheTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ),

M&Tisrestrictedfromincreasingitscommonstockdividend.
SupervisionandRegulationofM&TBank™sSubsidiaries
M&TBankhasanumberofsubsidiaries.Thesesubsidiariesaresubjecttothelawsandregulationsofboth

thefederalgovernmentandthevariousstatesinwhichtheyconductbusiness.Forexample,M&TSecurities

isregulatedbytheSecuritiesandExchangeCommission,theFinancialIndustryRegulatoryAuthorityand

statesecuritiesregulators.
FederalReserveBoard™sComprehensiveCapitalAssessmentReview
InNovember2011,theFederalReserveBoardpublishedafinalrulerequiringbankholdingcompanies

(includingM&T)with$50billionormoreoftotalconsolidatedassetstosubmitannualcapitalplanstothe

appropriateFederalReserveBank.Thecapitalanalysisandreviewprocessprovidedforintheruleisknownas

theComprehensiveCapitalAnalysisandReview,orﬁCCARﬂ.Thecapitalplansarerequiredtobesubmitted

onanannualbasis.Suchbankholdingcompanieswillal
soberequiredtocollectandreportcertainrelated
dataonaquarterlybasistoallowtheFederalReserveBoardtomonitorthecompanies™progressagainsttheir

annualcapitalplans.Thecomprehensivecapitalplans
,whicharepreparedusingBaselIcapitalguidelines,
includeaviewofcapitaladequacyunderfourscenariosŒaBHC-definedbaselinescenario,abaselinescenario

providedbytheFederalReserveBoard,atleastoneBHC-definedstressscenario,andastressscenarioprovided

bytheFederalReserveBoard.Coveredbankholdingcompanies,includingM&T,maypaydividendsand

repurchasestockonlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanthathasbeenreviewedbytheFederalReserveBoard

andastowhichtheFederalReserveBoardhasnotobjected.TherulesprovidethattheFederalReserveBoard

mayobjecttoacapitalplaniftheplandoesnotshowthatthecoveredBHCwillmeetallminimumregulatory

capitalratiosandmaintainaratioofTier1commonequitytorisk-weightedassetsofatleast5%onapro

formabasisunderexpectedandstressfulconditionsthroughoutthenine-quarterplanninghorizoncoveredby

thecapitalplan.Therulesalsorequire,amongotherthings,thatacoveredBHCmaynotmakeacapital

distributionunlessaftergivingeffecttothedistributionitwillmeetallminimumregulatorycapitalratiosand

havearatioofTier1commonequitytorisk-weightedassetsofatleast5%.Aspartofthisprocess,M&Talso

providestheFederalReserveBoardwithprojectionscoveringthetimeperioditwilltaketofullycomplywith

BaselIIIcapitalguidelines,includingthe7%Tier1commonequity,8.5%Tier1capitaland3%leverageratios

aswellasgranularcomponentsofthoseelements.M&T™scapitalplanwasfiledwiththeFederalReserveBoard

onJanuary9,2012.
9ThepurposeoftheFederalReserveBoard™scapitalplanreviewistoensurethatthesebankholding
companieshaverobust,forward-lookingcapitalplanningprocessesthataccountforeachBHC™sunique

risksandthatpermitcontinuedoperationsduringtimesofeconomicandfinancialstress.TheCCARrule,

consistentwithpriorFederalReserveBoardguidance,providesthatcapitalplanscontemplatingdividend

payoutratiosexceeding30%ofprojectedafter-taxnetincomewillreceiveparticularlyclosescrutiny.
CapitalRequirements
M&Tanditssubsidiarybanksarerequiredtocomplywiththeapplicablecapitaladequacystandardsestablished

bytheFederalReserveBoard.Therearetwobasicmeasuresofcapitaladequacyforbankholdingcompaniesthat

havebeenpromulgatedbytheFederalReserveBoard:arisk-basedmeasureandaleveragemeasure.
Risk-basedCapitalStandards
.Therisk-basedcapitalstandardsaredesignedtomakeregulatorycapital
requirementsmoresensitivetodifferencesincreditandmarketriskprofilesamongbanksandfinancialholding

companies,toaccountforoff-balancesheetexposure,andtominimizedisincentivesforholdingliquidassets.

Assetsandoff-balancesheetitemsareassignedtobroadriskcategories,eachwithappropriateweights.The

resultingcapitalratiosrepresentcapitalasapercentageoftotalrisk-weightedassetsandoff-balancesheetitems.
Theminimumguidelinefortheratiooftotalcapital(ﬁTotalCapitalﬂ)torisk-weightedassets
(includingcertainoff-balancesheetitems,suchasstandbylettersofcredit)is8.0%.AtleasthalfoftheTotal

CapitalmustbeﬁTier1Capital,ﬂwhichcurrentlyconsistsofqualifyingcommonequity,qualifying

noncumulativeperpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),seniorperpetualpreferredstockissued

totheU.S.TreasuryaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgram(theﬁCPPﬂ),

minorityinterestsrelatingtoqualifyingcommonornoncumulativeperpetualpreferredstockissuedbya

consolidatedU.S.depositoryinstitutionorforeignbanksubsidiary,andcertainﬁrestrictedcorecapital

elements,ﬂasdiscussedbelow,lessgoodwillandcertainotherintangibleassets.Currently,ﬁTier2Capitalﬂ

mayconsistof,amongotherthings,qualifyingsubordinateddebt,mandatorilyconvertibledebtsecurities,

preferredstockandtrustpreferredsecuritiesnotincludedinthedefinitionofTier1Capital,andalimited

amountoftheallowanceforloanlosses.Non-cumulativeperpetualpreferredstock,trustpreferredsecurities

andotherso-calledﬁrestrictedcorecapitalelementsﬂarecurrentlylimitedto25%ofTier1Capital.

PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionofTier1

Capitalofbankholdingcompanieshavingconsolidatedassetsexceeding$500million,suchasM&T,overa

three-yearperiodbeginninginJanuary2013.
Theminimumguidelinetobeconsideredwell-capitalizedforTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalis6.0%
and10.0%,respectively.AtDecember31,2011,theRegistrant™sconsolidatedTier1Capitalratiowas9.67%

anditsTotalCapitalratiowas13.26%.TheelementscurrentlycomprisingTier1CapitalandTier2Capital

andtheminimumTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalratiosmayinthefuturebesubjecttochange,as

discussedingreaterdetailbelow.
BaselIandIIStandards.
M&Tcurrentlycalculatesitsrisk-basedcapitalratiosunderguidelinesadopted
bytheFederalReserveBoardbasedonthe1988CapitalAccord(ﬁBaselIﬂ)oftheBaselCommitteeonBanking

Supervision(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ).In2004,theBaselCommitteepublishedanewsetofrisk-basedcapital

standards(ﬁBaselIIﬂ)inordertoupdateBaselI.BaselIIprovidestwoapproachesforsettingcapitalstandards

forcreditriskŠaninternalratings-basedapproachtailoredtoindividualinstitutions™circumstancesanda

standardizedapproachthatbasesrisk-weightingonexternalcreditassessmentstoamuchgreaterextentthan

permittedintheexistingrisk-basedcapitalguidelines.BaselIIalsowouldsetcapitalrequirementsfor

operationalriskandrefinetheexistingcapitalrequirementsformarketriskexposures.Adefinitivefinalrule

forimplementingtheadvancedapproachesofBaselIIintheUnitedStates,whichappliesonlyto

internationallyactivebankingorganizations,orﬁcorebanksﬂ(definedasthosewithconsolidatedtotalassetsof

$250billionormoreorconsolidatedon-balancesheetforeignexposuresof$10billionormore)became

effectiveonApril1,2008.OtherU.S.bankingorganizationsmayelecttoadopttherequirementsofthisrule(if

theymeetapplicablequalificationrequirements),butarenotrequiredtocomply.Therulealsoallowsa

bankingorganization™sprimaryfederalsupervisortodeterminethatapplicationoftherulewouldnotbe

appropriateinlightofthebank™sassetsize,levelofcomplexity,riskprofileorscopeofoperations.Neither

M&TBanknorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.iscurrentlyrequiredtocomplywithBaselII.
InJuly2008,theU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesissuedaproposedrulethatwouldprovidebanking
organizationsthatdonotusetheadvancedapproacheswiththeoptiontoimplementanewrisk-based

capitalframework.ThisframeworkwouldadoptthestandardizedapproachofBaselIIforcreditrisk,the

basicindicatorapproachofBaselIIforoperationalrisk,andrelateddisclosurerequirements.Whilethis

proposedrulegenerallyparallelstherelevantapproachesunderBaselII,itdivergeswhereUnitedStates
10marketshaveuniquecharacteristicsandriskprofiles,mostnotablywithrespecttoriskweightingresidential
mortgageexposures.CommentsontheproposedrulewereduetotheagenciesbyOctober27,2008,buta

definitivefinalrulehasnotbeenissuedasofFebruary2012.
LeverageRequirements.
NeitherBaselInorBaselIIincludesaleveragerequirementasan
internationalstandard,however,theFederalReserveBoardhasestablishedminimumleverageratio

guidelinestobeconsideredwell-capitalizedforbankholdingcompanies.Theseguidelinesprovidefora

minimumratioofTier1Capitaltoaveragetotalassets,lessgoodwillandcertainotherintangibleassets(the

ﬁLeverageRatioﬂ),of3.0%forbankholdingcompaniesthatmeetcertainspecifiedcriteria,includinghaving

thehighestregulatoryrating.Allotherbankholdingcompaniesgenerallyarerequiredtomaintaina

LeverageRatioofatleast4%.M&T™sLeverageRatioatDecember31,2011was9.28%.
Theguidelinesalsoprovidethatbankholdingcompaniesexperiencinginternalgrowthormaking
acquisitionswillbeexpectedtomaintainstrongcapitalpositionssubstantiallyabovetheminimum

supervisorylevelswithoutsignificantrelianceonintangibleassets.Furthermore,theFederalReserveBoard

hasindicatedthatitwillconsideraﬁtangibleTier1Capitalleverageratioﬂ(deductingallintangibles)and

otherindicatorsofcapitalstrengthinevaluatingproposalsforexpansionornewactivities.
BaselIIIStandards.
InDecember2010,theBaselCommitteereleaseditsfinalframeworkfor
strengtheninginternationalcapitalandliquidityregulation,nowofficiallyidentifiedbytheBaselCommittee

asﬁBaselIII.ﬂBaselIII,whenimplementedbytheU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesandfullyphased-in,will

requirebankholdingcompaniesandtheirbanksubsidiariestomaintainsubstantiallymorecapital,witha

greateremphasisoncommonequity.TheBaselIIIfinalcapitalframework,amongotherthings:
ŠintroducesasanewcapitalmeasureﬁCommonEquityTier1ﬂ,orﬁCET1ﬂ,specifiesthatTier1

capitalconsistsofCET1andﬁAdditionalTier1capitalﬂinstrumentsmeetingspecifiedrequirements,

definesCET1narrowlybyrequiringthatmostdeductionsoradjustmentstoregulatorycapital

measuresbemadetoCET1andnottotheothercomponentsofcapital,andexpandsthescopeofthe

deductionsoradjustmentsascomparedtoexistingregulations;
ŠwhenfullyphasedinonJanuary1,2019,requiresbankstomaintain:
Šasanewlyadoptedinternationalstandard,aminimumratioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsofatleast

4.5%,plusa2.5%ﬁcapitalconservationbufferﬂ(whi
chisaddedtothe4.5%CET1ratioasthatbufferis

phasedin,effectivelyresultinginaminimumratioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsofatleast7%);
ŠaminimumratioofTier1capitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast6.0%,plusthecapital

conservationbuffer(whichisaddedtothe6.0%Tier1capitalratioasthatbufferisphasedin,

effectivelyresultinginaminimumTier1capitalratioof8.5%uponfullimplementation);
ŠaminimumratioofTotal(thatis,Tier1plusTier2)capitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast8.0%,

plusthecapitalconservationbuffer(whichisaddedtothe8.0%totalcapitalratioasthatbufferis

phasedin,effectivelyresultinginaminimumtotalcapitalratioof10.5%uponfullimplementation);
Šasanewlyadoptedinternationalstandard,aminimumleverageratioof3%,calculatedastheratioof

Tier1capitaltobalancesheetexposurespluscertainoff-balancesheetexposures(astheaveragefor

eachquarterofthemonth-endratiosforthequarter);and
Šprovidesforaﬁcountercyclicalcapitalbufferﬂ,generallytobeimposedwhennationalregulators

determinethatexcessaggregatecreditgrowthbecomesassociatedwithabuildupofsystemicrisk,

thatwouldbeaCET1add-ontothecapitalconservationbufferintherangeof0%to2.5%when

fullyimplemented(potentiallyresultingintotalbuffersofbetween2.5%and5%).
Thecapitalconservationbufferisdesignedtoabsorblossesduringperiodsofeconomicstress.
BankinginstitutionswitharatioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsabovetheminimumbutbelowthe
conservationbuffer(orbelowthecombinedcapitalconservationbufferandcountercyclicalcapitalbuffer,

whenthelatterisapplied)willfaceconstraintsondividends,equityrepurchasesandcompensationbasedon

theamountoftheshortfall.
InJuly2011,theBaselCommitteeintroducedaconsultativedocumentestablishingarequirement
foracapitalsurchargeoncertaingloballysystemicallyimportantbanks(ﬁG-SIBsﬂ),andinNovember2011,

theBaselCommitteeissuedfinalprovisionssubstantiallyunchangedfromthepreviousproposal.An

ﬁindicator-basedapproachﬂwillbeusedtodeterminewhetherabankisaG-SIBandtheappropriatelevelof

thesurchargetobeapplied.Theﬁindicator-basedapproachﬂconsistsoffivebroadcategories:size,

interconnectedness,lackofsubstitutability,cross-jurisdictionalactivityandcomplexity.Banksfoundtobe

G-SIBswillbesubjecttoaprogressiveCET1surchargerangingfrom1%to3.5%overtheBaselIII7%CET1

requirement.ThesurchargewillbecomefullyeffectiveonJanuary1,2019.
11TheimplementationoftheBaselIIIfinalframeworkwillcommenceJanuary1,2013.Onthatdate,
bankinginstitutionswillberequiredtomeetthefollowingminimumcapitalratiosbeforetheapplicationof
anybuffer:
Š3.5%CET1torisk-weightedassets;
Š4.5%Tier1capitaltorisk-weightedassets;and
Š8.0%Totalcapitaltorisk-weightedassets.
TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkprovidesforanumberofnewdeductionsfromandadjustmentsto
CET1.Theseinclude,forexample,therequirementthatmortgageservicingrights,deferredtaxassets
dependentuponfuturetaxableincomeandsignificantinvestmentsinnon-consolidatedfinancialentitiesbe

deductedfromCET1totheextentthatanyonesuchcategoryexceeds10%ofCET1orallsuchcategoriesin

theaggregateexceed15%ofCET1.
ImplementationofthedeductionsandotheradjustmentstoCET1willbeginonJanuary1,2014and
willbephased-inoverafive-yearperiod(20%peryear).Theimplementationofthecapitalconservation

bufferwillbeginonJanuary1,2016at0.625%andbephasedinoverafour-yearperiod(increasingbythat

amountoneachsubsequentJanuary1,untilitreaches2.5%onJanuary1,2019).
ThetimingfortheU.S.bankingagency™spublicationofproposedrulestoimplementtheBaselIII
capitalframeworkandtheimplementationscheduleisuncertain.ThereleaseaccompanyingtheProposed

SIFIRulesappearstoindicatethatrulesimplementingBaselIIIwillbepublishedforcommentduringthe

firstquarterof2012.TheregulationsultimatelyapplicabletoM&Tmaybesubstantiallydifferentfromthe

BaselIIIfinalframeworkaspublishedinDecember2010.
TheDodd-FrankActappearstorequiretheFederalReserveBoardtoadoptregulationsimposinga
continuingﬁfloorﬂoftheBaselI-basedcapitalrequ
irementsincaseswheretheBaselII-basedcapital
requirementsandanychangesincapitalregulationsr
esultingfromBaselIIIotherwisewouldpermitlower
requirements.InDecember2010,theFederalReserveB
oardpublishedforcommentproposedregulations
implementingthisrequirement.OnJune14,2011,theFederalReserveBoard,FDICandOCCjointlyapproved

afinalrulewhichrequiresabankingorganizationoperatingundertheagencies™advancedapproachesrisk-

basedcapitalrulestoadheretothehigheroftheminimumrequirementsunderthegeneralrisk-basedcapital

rulesandtheminimumrequirementsundertheadvancedapproachesrisk-basedcapitalrules.
LiquidityRatiosunderBaselIII.
Historically,regulationandmonitoringofbankandbankholding
companyliquidityhasbeenaddressedasasupervisorymatter,bothintheU.S.andinternationally,without

requiredformulaicmeasures.TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkrequiresbanksandbankholdingcompaniesto

measuretheirliquidityagainstspecificliquidityteststhat,althoughsimilarinsomerespectstoliquidity

measureshistoricallyappliedbybanksandregulatorsformanagementandsupervisorypurposes,going

forwardwillberequiredbyregulation.Onetest,referredtoastheliquiditycoverageratio(ﬁLCRﬂ),is

designedtoensurethatthebankingentitymaintainsanadequatelevelofunencumberedhigh-qualityliquid

assetsequaltotheentity™sexpectednetcashoutflowfora30-daytimehorizon(or,ifgreater,25%ofits

expectedtotalcashoutflow)underanacuteliquiditystressscenario.Theother,referredtoasthenetstable

fundingratio(ﬁNSFRﬂ),isdesignedtopromotemoremedium-andlong-termfundingoftheassetsand

activitiesofbankingentitiesoveraone-yeartimehorizon.Theserequirementswillincentbankingentities

toincreasetheirholdingsofU.S.Treasurysecuritiesandothersovereigndebtasacomponentofassetsand

increasetheuseoflong-termdebtasafundingsource.TheBaselIIIliquidityframeworkcontemplatesthat

theLCRwillbesubjecttoanobservationperiodcontinuingthroughmid-2013and,subjecttoanyrevisions

resultingfromtheanalysesconductedanddatacollectedduringtheobservationperiod,implementedasa

minimumstandardonJanuary1,2015.Similarly,itcontemplatesthattheNSFRwillbesubjecttoan

observationperiodthroughmid-2016and,subjecttoanyrevisionsresultingfromtheanalysesconducted

anddatacollectedduringtheobservationperiod,implementedasaminimumstandardbyJanuary1,2018.

Thesenewstandardsaresubjecttofurtherrulemakingandtheirtermsmaywellchangebefore

implementation.TheProposedSIFIRulesaddressliquidityrequirementsforbankholdingcompanies,including
M&T,with$50billionormoreintotalconsolidatedassets.Inthereleaseaccompanyingthoserules,the

FederalReserveBoardstatesageneralintentiontoincorporatetheBaselIIIliquidityframeworkforthe

bankholdingcompaniescoveredbytheProposedSIFIRulesoraﬁsubsetﬂofthosebankholdingcompanies.

AlthoughtheserulesdonotincludeprescriptiveratiosliketheLCRandNSFR,theydoincludedetailed

liquidity-relatedrequirements,includingrequirementsforcashflowprojections,liquiditystresstesting

(including,ataminimum,overtimehorizonsthatincludeanovernighttimehorizon,a30-daytime
12horizon,a90-daytimehorizonanda1-yeartimehorizon),andarequirementthatcoveredbankholding
companiesmaintainaliquiditybufferofunencumberedhighlyliquidassetssufficienttomeetprojectednet

cashoutflowsandtheprojectedlossorimpairmentofexistingfundingsourcesfor30daysoverarangeof

liquiditystressscenarios.
CapitalRequirementsofSubsidiaryDepositoryInstitutions.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.
aresubjecttosubstantiallysimilarcapitalrequirementsasthoseapplicabletoM&T.AsofDecember31,

2011,bothM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.wereincompliancewithapplicableminimumcapital

requirements.NoneofM&T,M&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasbeenadvisedbyanyfederal

bankingagencyofafailuretomeetanyspecificminimumcapitalratiorequirementapplicabletoitasof

December31,2011.Failuretomeetcapitalguidelinescouldsubjectabanktoavarietyofenforcement

remedies,includingtheterminationofdepositinsurancebytheFDIC,andtocertainrestrictionsonits

business.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.
GiventhattheBaselIIIrulesaresubjecttochangeandthescopeandcontentofcapitalregulations
thatU.S.federalbankingagenciesmayadoptundertheDodd-FrankActisuncertain,M&Tcannotbe

certainoftheimpactnewcapitalregulationswillhaveonitscapitalratiosorthoseofitsbanksubsidiaries.
SafetyandSoundnessStandards
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankregulatoryagenciespursuanttotheFederalDepositInsuranceAct,as

amended(theﬁFDIAﬂ),establishgeneralstandardsre
latingtointernalcontrolsandinformationsystems,
internalauditsystems,loandocumentation,creditunderwriting,interestrateexposure,assetgrowthand

compensation,feesandbenefits.Ingeneral,theseguidelinesrequire,amongotherthings,appropriatesystems

andpracticestoidentifyandmanagetheriskandexposuresspecifiedintheguidelines.Additionally,the

agenciesadoptedregulationsthatauthorize,butdonotrequire,anagencytoorderaninstitutionthathasbeen

givennoticebyanagencythatitisnotsatisfyinganyofsuchsafetyandsoundnessstandardstosubmita

complianceplan.If,afterbeingsonotified,aninstitutionfailstosubmitanacceptablecomplianceplanorfails

inanymaterialrespecttoimplementanacceptablecomplianceplan,theagencymustissueanorderdirecting

actiontocorrectthedeficiencyandmayissueanorderdirectingotheractionsofthetypestowhichan

undercapitalizedinstitutionissubjectundertheﬁpromptcorrectiveactionﬂprovisionsoftheFDIA.See

ﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.Ifaninstitutionfailstocomplywithsuchanorder,theagency

mayseektoenforcesuchorderinjudicialproceedingsandtoimposecivilmoneypenalties.
RegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIA
TheFDIAestablishesasystemofregulatoryremediestoresolvetheproblemsofundercapitalizedinstitutions.

Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveestablishedfivecapitalcategories(ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂﬁadequately

capitalized,ﬂﬁundercapitalized,ﬂﬁsignificantlyunderc
apitalizedﬂandﬁcriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ)andmust
takecertainmandatorysupervisoryactions,andareauthorizedtotakeotherdiscretionaryactions,withrespect

toinstitutionswhichareundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcriticallyundercapitalized.The

severityofthesemandatoryanddiscretionarysupervisoryactionsdependuponthecapitalcategoryinwhich

theinstitutionisplaced.Generally,subjecttoanarrowexception,theFDIArequiresthebankingregulatorto

appointareceiverorconservatorforaninstitutionthatiscriticallyundercapitalized.Thefederalbank

regulatoryagencieshavespecifiedbyregulationtherelevantcapitallevelsforeachcategory:
ﬁWell-CapitalizedﬂﬁAdequatelyCapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatioof5%,
Tier1Capitalratioof6%,

TotalCapitalratioof10%,and

Notsubjecttoawrittenagreement,order,

capitaldirectiveorregulatoryremedy

directiverequiringaspecificcapitallevel.
LeverageRatioof4%,

Tier1Capitalratioof4%,and

TotalCapitalratioof8%.
ﬁUndercapitalizedﬂﬁSignificantlyUndercapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatiolessthan4%,

Tier1Capitalratiolessthan4%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan8%.
LeverageRatiolessthan3%,

Tier1Capitalratiolessthan3%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan6%.
ﬁCriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ
Tangibleequitytototalassetslessthan2%.
13Forpurposesoftheseregulations,thetermﬁtangibleequityﬂincludescorecapitalelementscounted
asTier1Capitalforpurposesoftherisk-basedcapitalstandardsplustheamountofoutstandingcumulative
perpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),minusallintangibleassetswithcertainexceptions.An

institutionthatisclassifiedaswell-capitalizedbasedonitscapitallevelsmaybeclassifiedasadequately

capitalized,andaninstitutionthatisadequatelycapitalizedorundercapitalizedbaseduponitscapitallevels

maybetreatedasthoughitwereundercapitalizedorsignificantlyundercapitalized,respectively,ifthe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,afternoticeandopportunityforhearing,determinesthatanunsafeor

unsoundconditionoranunsafeorunsoundpracticewarrantssuchtreatment.
Aninstitutionthatiscategorizedasundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcritically
undercapitalizedisrequiredtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplantoitsappropriatefederal

bankingregulator.UndertheFDIA,inorderforthecapitalrestorationplantobeacceptedbythe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,abankholdingcompanymustguaranteethatasubsidiarydepository

institutionwillcomplywithitscapitalrestorationplan,subjecttocertainlimitations.Thebankholding

companymustalsoprovideappropriateassurancesofperformance.Theobligationofacontrollingbank

holdingcompanyundertheFDIAtofundacapitalrestorationplanislimitedtothelesserof5.0%ofan

undercapitalizedsubsidiary™sassetsortheamountrequiredtomeetregulatorycapitalrequirements.An

undercapitalizedinstitutionisalsogenerallyprohibitedfromincreasingitsaveragetotalassets,making

acquisitions,establishinganybranchesorengaginginanynewlineofbusiness,exceptinaccordancewithan

acceptedcapitalrestorationplanorwiththeapprovaloftheFDIC.Institutionsthataresignificantly

undercapitalizedorundercapitalizedandeitherfailtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanorfailto

implementanapprovedcapitalrestorationplanmaybesubjecttoanumberofrequirementsand

restrictions,includingorderstosellsufficientvotingstocktobecomeadequatelycapitalized,requirements

toreducetotalassetsandcessationofreceiptofdepositsfromcorrespondentbanks.Critically

undercapitalizeddepositoryinstitutionsfailingtosubmitorimplementanacceptablecapitalrestoration

planaresubjecttoappointmentofareceiverorconservator.
SupportofSubsidiaryBanks
UnderlongstandingFederalReserveBoardpolicywhichhasbeencodifiedbytheDodd-FrankAct,M&Tis

expectedtoactasasourceoffinancialstrengthto,andtocommitresourcestosupport,itssubsidiarybanks.

ThissupportmayberequiredattimeswhenM&Tmaynotbeinclinedtoprovideit.Inaddition,anycapital

loansbyabankholdingcompanytoasubsidiarybankaresubordinateinrightofpaymenttodepositsand

tocertainotherindebtednessofsuchsubsidiarybank.Intheeventofabankholdingcompany™sbankruptcy,

anycommitmentbythebankholdingcompanytoafederalbankregulatoryagencytomaintainthecapital

ofasubsidiarybankwillbeassumedbythebankruptcytrusteeandentitledtoapriorityofpayment.
Cross-GuaranteeProvisions
Eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionﬁcontrolledﬂ(asdefinedintheBHCA)bythesamebankholding

companycanbeheldliabletotheFDICforanylossincurred,orreasonablyexpectedtobeincurred,bythe

FDICduetothedefaultofanyotherinsureddepositoryinstitutioncontrolledbythatholdingcompanyand

foranyassistanceprovidedbytheFDICtoanyofthosebanksthatisindangerofdefault.TheFDIC™sclaim

underthecross-guaranteeprovisionsissuperiortoclaimsofshareholdersoftheinsureddepository

institutionoritsholdingcompanyandtomostclaimsarisingoutofobligationsorliabilitiesowedto

affiliatesoftheinstitution,butissubordinatetoclaimsofdepositors,securedcreditorsandholdersof

subordinateddebt(otherthanaffiliates)ofthecommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitution.The

FDICmaydeclinetoenforcethecross-guaranteeprovisionsifitdeterminesthatawaiverisinthebest

interestoftheDIF.
TransactionswithAffiliates
TherearevariouslegalrestrictionsontheextenttowhichM&Tanditsnon-banksubsidiariesmayborrow

orotherwiseobtainfundingfromM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Ingeneral,Sections23Aand23B

oftheFederalReserveBoardActandFederalReserveBoardRegulationWrequirethatanyﬁcovered

transactionﬂbyM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(oranyoftheirrespectivesubsidiaries)withan

affiliatemustbesecuredbydesignatedamountsofspecifiedcollateralandmustbelimitedto(a)inthecase

ofanysinglesuchaffiliate,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsoftheinsureddepository

institutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed10%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusofsuchinsured

depositoryinstitution,and(b)inthecaseofallaffiliates,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsofan
14insureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed20%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusof
suchinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActsignificantlyexpandedthecoverageandscopeof

thelimitationsonaffiliatetransactionswithinabankingorganization,includingforexample,the

requirementthatthe10%ofcapitallimitoncoveredtransactionsbegintoapplytofinancialsubsidiaries.

ﬁCoveredtransactionsﬂaredefinedbystatutetoinclude,amongotherthings,aloanorextensionofcredit,

aswellasapurchaseofsecuritiesissuedbyanaffiliate,apurchaseofassets(unlessotherwiseexemptedby

theFederalReserveBoard)fromtheaffiliate,certainderivativetransactionsthatcreateacreditexposureto

anaffiliate,theacceptanceofsecuritiesissuedbytheaffiliateascollateralforaloan,andtheissuanceofa

guarantee,acceptanceorletterofcreditonbehalfofanaffiliate.Allcoveredtransactions,includingcertain

additionaltransactions(suchastransactionswithathirdpartyinwhichanaffiliatehasafinancialinterest),

mustbeconductedonmarketterms.
FDICInsuranceAssessments
DepositInsuranceAssessments.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.paydepositinsurancepremiumsto
theFDICbasedonanassessmentrateestablishedbytheFDIC.
OnApril1,2011,thedepositinsuranceassessmentbasechangedfromtotaldomesticdepositstothe
averageconsolidatedtotalassetsofthedepositoryinstitutionminusitsaveragetangibleequity,pursuantto

aruleissuedbytheFDICasrequiredbytheDodd-FrankAct.Additionally,theFDICrevisedthedeposit

insuranceassessmentsystemtocreateatwoscorecardsystemforlargeinstitutions,oneformostlarge

institutionsthathavemorethan$10billioninassets,suchasM&TBank,andanotherforﬁhighlycomplexﬂ

institutionsthathaveover$50billioninassetsandarefullyownedbyaparentwithover$500billionin

assets.Eachscorecardhasaperformancescoreandaloss-severityscorethatiscombinedtoproduceatotal

score,whichistranslatedintoaninitialassessmentrate.Incalculatingthesescores,theFDICutilizesthe

bank™scapitallevelandsupervisoryratings(itsﬁCAMELSﬂratings)andcertainnewforward-looking

financialmeasurestoassessaninstitution™sabilitytowithstandasset-relatedstressandfunding-related

stress.Thenewassessmentrulealsoeliminatestheuseofriskcategoriesandlong-termdebtissuerratings

forcalculatingrisk-basedassessmentsforinstitutionshavingmorethan$10billioninassets.TheFDIChas

theabilitytomakediscretionaryadjustmentstothetotalscore,upordown,baseduponsignificantrisk

factorsthatarenotadequatelycapturedinthescorecard.Thetotalscoreisthentranslatedtoaninitialbase

assessmentrateonanon-linear,sharply-increasingscale.
Forlargeinstitutions,includingM&TBank,theinitialbaseassessmentraterangesfrom5to35basis
points(hundredthsofonepercent)onanannualizedbasis.Aftertheeffectofpotentialbase-rate

adjustments,thetotalbaseassessmentratecouldrangefrom2.5to45basispointsonanannualizedbasis.

Thepotentialadjustmentstoaninstitution™sinitialbaseassessmentrateinclude(i)apotentialdecreaseof

upto5basispointsforcertainlong-termunsecureddebtand(ii)(exceptforwell-capitalizedinstitutions

withaCAMELSratingof1or2)apotentialincreaseofupto10basispointsforbrokereddepositsinexcess

of10%ofdomesticdeposits.AstheDIFreserveratiogrows,therateschedulewillbeadjusteddownward.

Additionally,theruleincludesanewadjustmentfordepositoryinstitutiondebtwherebyaninstitutionwill

payanadditionalpremiumequalto50basispointsoneverydollar(above3%ofaninstitution™sTier1

capital)oflong-term,unsecureddebtheldthatwasissuedbyanotherinsureddepositoryinstitution

(excludingdebtguaranteedundertheTemporaryLiquidityGuaranteeProgram).
InOctober2010,theFDICadoptedanewrestorationplantoensurethedesignatedreserveratio
reaches1.35%bySeptember2020.TheFDICwill,atleastsemi-annually,updateitsincomeandloss

projectionsfortheDIFand,ifnecessary,proposerulestofurtherincreaseassessmentrates.
OnNovember17,2009,theFDICimplementedafinalrulerequiringinsuredinstitutions,suchas
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,toprepaytheirestimatedquarterlyrisk-basedassessmentsforthe

fourthquarterof2009,andforallof2010,2011and2012.Suchprepaidassessmentswerepaidon

December30,2009,alongwitheachinstitution™squarterlyrisk-baseddepositinsuranceassessmentforthe

thirdquarterof2009(assuming5%annualgrowthindepositsbetweenthethirdquarterof2009andthe

endof2012andtakingintoaccount,for2011and2012,theannualizedthreebasispointincreasediscussed

below).TheremainingamountofprepaidinsuranceassessmentsatDecember31,2011relatedto2012for

M&TBankwas$89.2millionandforWilmingtonTrust,N.A.was$1.7million.
InNovember2010,theFDICissuedafinalruletoimplementprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActthat
providefortemporaryunlimitedcoveragefornoninterest-bearingtransactionaccounts.Theseparate

coveragefornoninterest-bearingtransactionaccountsbecameeffectiveonDecember31,2010and

terminatesonDecember31,2012.
15UndertheFDIA,insuranceofdepositsmaybeterminatedbytheFDICuponafindingthatthe
institutionhasengagedinunsafeandunsoundpractices,isinanunsafeorunsoundconditiontocontinue
operations,orhasviolatedanyapplicablelaw,regulation,rule,orderorconditionimposedbytheFDIC.
FICOAssessments.
Inaddition,theDepositInsuranceFundsActof1996authorizedtheFinancing
Corporation(ﬁFICOﬂ)toimposeassessmentsonDIFapplicabledepositsinordertoservicetheintereston

FICO™sbondobligationsfromdepositinsurancefundassessments.Theamountassessedonindividual

institutionsbyFICOisinadditiontotheamount,ifany,paidfordepositinsuranceaccordingtotheFDIC™s

risk-relatedassessmentrateschedules.FICOassessmentratesmaybeadjustedquarterlytoreflectachange

inassessmentbase.M&TBankrecognized$5millionofexpenserelatedtoitsFICOassessmentsand

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.recognized$51thousandofsuchexpensein2011.
AcquisitionsTheBHCArequireseverybankholdingcompanytoobtainthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoard

before:(1)itmayacquiredirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanybankorsavings

andloanassociation,ifaftersuchacquisition,thebankholdingcompanywilldirectlyorindirectlyownor

control5%ormoreofthevotingsharesoftheinstitution;(2)itoranyofitssubsidiaries,otherthanabank,

mayacquireallorsubstantiallyalloftheassetsofanybankorsavingsandloanassociation;or(3)itmay

mergeorconsolidatewithanyotherbankholdingcompany.SinceJuly2011,financialholdingcompanies

andbankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsexceeding$50billion,suchasM&T,havebeen

requiredto(i)obtainpriorapprovalfromtheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringcertainnonbank

financialcompanieswithassetsexceeding$10billionand(ii)providepriorwrittennoticetotheFederal

ReserveBoardbeforeacquiringdirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanycompany

havingconsolidatedassetsof$10billionormore.SinceJuly2011,bankholdingcompaniesseekingapproval

tocompleteanacquisitionhavebeenrequiredtobewell-capitalizedandwell-managed.
TheBHCAfurtherprovidesthattheFederalReserveBoardmaynotapproveanytransactionthat
wouldresultinamonopolyorwouldbeinfurtheranceofanycombinationorconspiracytomonopolizeor

attempttomonopolizethebusinessofbankinginanysectionoftheUnitedStates,ortheeffectofwhich

maybesubstantiallytolessencompetitionortotendtocreateamonopolyinanysectionofthecountry,or

thatinanyothermannerwouldbeinrestraintoftrade,unlesstheanticompetitiveeffectsoftheproposed

transactionareclearlyoutweighedbythepublicinterestinmeetingtheconvenienceandneedsofthe

communitytobeserved.TheFederalReserveBoardisalsorequiredtoconsiderthefinancialand

managerialresourcesandfutureprospectsofthebankholdingcompaniesandbanksconcernedandthe

convenienceandneedsofthecommunitytobeserved.Considerationoffinancialresourcesgenerally

focusesoncapitaladequacy,andconsiderationofconvenienceandneedsissuesincludestheparties™

performanceundertheCRA.TheFederalReserveBoardmusttakeintoaccounttheinstitutions™

effectivenessincombatingmoneylaundering.Inaddition,pursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,theBHCAwas

amendedtorequiretheFederalReserveBoard,whenevaluatingaproposedtransaction,toconsiderthe

extenttowhichthetransactionwouldresultingreaterormoreconcentratedriskstothestabilityofthe

UnitedStatesbankingorfinancialsystem.
U.S.TreasuryCapitalPurchaseProgram
PursuanttotheCPP,onDecember23,2008,M&TissuedandsoldtotheU.S.Treasuryinaprivateoffering

(i)$600millionofSeriesAPreferredStockand(ii)awarranttopurchase1,218,522sharesofM&T

CommonStockatanexercisepriceof$73.86pershare,subjecttocertainanti-dilutionandother

adjustments.M&Telectedtoparticipateinthecapitalpurchaseprogramatanamountequalto

approximately1%ofitsrisk-weightedassetsatthetime.OnMay18,2011,M&Tredeemedandretired$370

millionoftheSeriesAPreferredStock.InconnectionwithitsacquisitionofProvidentonMay23,2009,

M&Tissued$151.5millionofSeriesCPreferredStockinexchangeforthesecuritiesissuedbyProvidentto

theU.S.TreasuryonNovember14,2008,andassumedawarrantissuedbyProvidenttotheU.S.Treasury,

which,onaconvertedbasis,providesforthepurchaseof407,542sharesofM&TCommonStockat$55.76

pershare.
Thesecuritiespurchaseagreement,datedDecember23,2008,pursuanttowhichthesecuritiesissued
totheU.S.TreasuryundertheCPPweresold,limitsthepaymentofquarterlydividendsonM&T™scommon

stockto$0.70persharewithoutpriorapprovaloftheU.S.Treasury,limitsM&T™sabilitytorepurchase

sharesofitscommonstock(withcertainexceptions,includingtherepurchaseofourcommonstockto

offsetsharedilutionfromequity-basedcompensationawards),grantstheholdersoftheSeriesAPreferred
16Stock,theWarrantandthecommonstockofM&Ttobeissuedunderthewarrantcertainregistration
rights,andsubjectsM&TtocertainoftheexecutivecompensationlimitationsincludedintheEmergency

EconomicStabilizationActof2008(ﬁEESAﬂ),asamendedbytheAmericanRecoveryandReinvestmentAct

of2009(ﬁARRAﬂ),describedbelowunderﬁExecutiveandIncentiveCompensationﬂ.Thesecurities

purchaseagreementbetweenProvidentandtheU.S.Treasury,towhichM&Tsucceeded,hasthesame

limitationsandeffects.
ExecutiveandIncentiveCompensation
ARRA,aneconomicstimuluspackagesignedintolawonFebruary17,2009,significantlyexpandedthe

restrictionsonexecutivecompensationthatwereincludedinSection111ofEESAandimposedvarious

corporategovernancestandardsonrecipientsofTARPfunds,includingundertheU.S.Treasury™scapital

purchaseprogram,untilsuchfundsarerepaid.OnJune10,2009,theU.S.TreasuryissuedtheTARP

InterimFinalRuletoclarifyandprovideadditionalguidancewithrespecttotherestrictionsonexecutive

compensationthatapplytoexecutivesandcertainotheremployeesofTARPrecipientsthatincludes:(i)a

prohibitiononpayingbonuses,retentionawardsandincentivecompensation,otherthanlong-term

restrictedstockorpursuanttocertainpreexistingemploymentcontracts,toitsSeniorExecutiveOfficers

(ﬁSEOsﬂ)andnext20mosthighly-compensatedemployees;(ii)aprohibitiononthepaymentofﬁgolden

parachutepaymentsﬂtoitsSEOsandnextfivemosthighlycompensatedemployees;(iii)aprohibitionon

payingincentivecompensationforﬁunnecessaryandexcessiverisksﬂandearningsmanipulations;(iv)a

requirementtoclawbackanybonus,retentionaward,orincentivecompensationpaidtoaSEOandanyof

thenexttwentymosthighlycompensatedemployeesbasedonstatementsofearnings,revenues,gains,or

othercriterialaterfoundtobemateriallyinaccurate;(v)arequirementtoestablishapolicyonluxuryor

excessiveexpenditures,includingentertainmentorevents,officeandfacilityrenovations,companyowned

aircraftandothertransportationandsimilaractivitiesorevents;(vi)arequirementtoprovideshareholders

withanon-bindingadvisoryﬁsayonpayﬂvoteonexecutivecompensation;(vii)aprohibitionondeducting

morethan$500,000inannualcompensationorperformancebasedcompensationfortheSEOsunder

InternalRevenueCodeSection162(m);(viii)arequirementthatthecompensationcommitteeoftheboard

ofdirectorsevaluateandreviewonasemi-annualbasistherisksinvolvedinemployeecompensationplans;

and(ix)arequirementthatthechiefexecutiveofficerandchieffinancialofficerprovidewritten

certificationsofcompliancewiththeforegoingrequirements.
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankingagenciespursuanttotheFDIAprohibitexcessive
compensationasanunsafeandunsoundpracticeanddescribecompensationasexcessivewhentheamounts

paidareunreasonableordisproportionatetotheservicesperformedbyanexecutiveofficer,employee,director

orprincipalstockholder.InJune2010,theFederalReserveBoardissuedcomprehensiveguidanceonincentive

compensationpolicies(theﬁIncentiveCompensationGuidanceﬂ)intendedtoensurethattheincentive

compensationpoliciesofbankingorganizationsdonotunderminethesafetyandsoundnessofsuch

organizationsbyencouragingexcessiverisk-taking.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidance,whichcoversall

employeesthathavetheabilitytomateriallyaffecttheriskprofileofanorganization,eitherindividuallyoras

partofagroup,isbaseduponthekeyprinciplesthatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensation

arrangementsshould(i)provideincentivesthatdonotencouragerisk-takingbeyondtheorganization™sability

toeffectivelyidentifyandmanagerisks,(ii)becompatiblewitheffectiveinternalcontrolsandrisk

management,and(iii)besupportedbystrongcorporategovernance,includingactiveandeffectiveoversight

bytheorganization™sboardofdirectors.Thesethreeprinciplesareincorporatedintotheproposedjoint

compensationregulationsundertheDodd-FrankAct,discussedabove.Anydeficienciesincompensation

practicesthatareidentifiedmaybeincorporatedintotheorganization™ssupervisoryratings,whichcanaffect

itsabilitytomakeacquisitionsorperformotheractions.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidanceprovidesthat

enforcementactionsmaybetakenagainstabankingorganizationifitsincentivecompensationarrangements

orrelatedrisk-managementcontrolorgovernanceprocessesposearisktotheorganization™ssafetyand

soundnessandtheorganizationisnottakingprompt
andeffectivemeasurestocorrectthedeficiencies.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalbankregulatoryagenciesandtheSecuritiesandExchange
Commissiontoestablishjointregulationsorguidelinesprohibitingincentive-basedpaymentarrangements

atspecifiedregulatedentities,suchasM&TandM&TBank,havingatleast$1billionintotalassetsthat

encourageinappropriaterisksbyprovidinganexecutiveofficer,employee,directororprincipalshareholder

withexcessivecompensation,fees,orbenefitsorthatcouldleadtomaterialfinanciallosstotheentity.In

addition,theseregulatorsmustestablishregulationsorguidelinesrequiringenhanceddisclosureto

regulatorsofincentive-basedcompensationarrangements.TheagenciesproposedsuchregulationsinApril
172011,whichmaybecomeeffectivebeforetheendof2012.Iftheregulationsareadoptedintheforminitially
proposed,theywillimposelimitationsonthemannerinwhichM&Tmaystructurecompensationforits

executives.ThescopeandcontentoftheU.S.bankingregulators™policiesonincentivecompensationare
continuingtodevelopandarelikelytocontinueevolvinginthefuture.Itcannotbedeterminedatthistime

whethercompliancewithsuchpolicieswilladverselyaffecttheabilityofM&Tanditssubsidiariestohire,

retainandmotivatetheirkeyemployees.
ResolutionPlanning
AsrequiredbytheDodd-FrankAct,theFederalReserveBoardandFDIChavejointlyissuedafinalrulethat

requirescertainorganizations,includingbankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsof$50billionor

more,toreportperiodicallytoregulatorsaresolutionplanfortheirrapidandorderlyresolutionintheevent

ofmaterialfinancialdistressorfailure.M&T™sresolutionplanmust,amongotherthings,ensurethatits

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiariesareadequatelyprotectedfromrisksarisingfromitsothersubsidiaries.

Thefinalrulesetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,includingrequiringastrategicanalysisofthe

plan™scomponents,adescriptionoftherangeofspecificactionsthecompanyproposestotakeinresolution,

andadescriptionofthecompany™sorganizationalstructure,materialentities,interconnectionsand

interdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,amongotherelements.
Inaddition,theFDIChasissuedafinalrulethatrequiresinsureddepositoryinstitutionswith$50
billionormoreintotalassets,suchasM&TBank,tosubmittotheFDICperiodicplansforresolutioninthe

eventoftheinstitution™sfailure.Therulerequirestheseinsuredinstitutionstosubmitaresolutionplanthat

willenabletheFDIC,asreceiver,toresolvethebankinamannerthatensuresthatdepositorsreceiveaccess

totheirinsureddepositswithinonebusinessdayoftheinstitution™sfailure,maximizesthenet-present-value

returnfromthesaleordispositionofitsassets,andminimizestheamountofanylosstoberealizedbythe

institution™screditors.Thefinalrulealsosetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,includingrequiring

astrategicanalysisoftheplan™scomponents,adescriptionofthestrategiesforachievingtheleastcostly

resolution,andanalysesofthefinancialcompany™sorganization,materialentities,interconnectionsand

interdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,amongotherelements.
InsolvencyofanInsuredDepositoryInstitutionoraBankHoldingCompany
IftheFDICisappointedasconservatororreceiverforaninsureddepositoryinstitutionsuchasM&TBank

orWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,uponitsinsolvencyorincertainotherevents,theFDIChasthepower:
Štotransferanyofthedepositoryinstitution™sassetsandliabilitiestoanewobligor,includinganewly

formedﬁbridgeﬂbankwithouttheapprovalofthedepositoryinstitution™screditors;
Štoenforcethetermsofthedepositoryinstitution™scontractspursuanttotheirtermswithoutregard

toanyprovisionstriggeredbytheappointmentoftheFDICinthatcapacity;or
Štorepudiateordisaffirmanycontractorleasetowhichthedepositoryinstitutionisaparty,the

performanceofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtobeburdensomeandthedisaffirmanceor

repudiationofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtopromotetheorderlyadministrationofthe

depositoryinstitution.
Inaddition,underfederallaw,theclaimsofholdersofdomesticdepositliabilitiesandcertainclaims
foradministrativeexpensesagainstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverother
generalunsecuredclaimsagainstsuchaninstitution,includingclaimsofdebtholdersoftheinstitution,in

theﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.Asaresult,whetherornotthe

FDICeversoughttorepudiateanydebtobligationsofM&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,thedebt

holderswouldbetreateddifferentlyfrom,andcouldreceive,ifanything,substantiallylessthan,the

depositorsofthebank.TheDodd-FrankActcreatedanewresolutionregime(knownasﬁorderlyliquidation

authorityﬂ)forsystemicallyimportantnon-bankfinancialcompanies,includingbankholdingcompanies

andtheiraffiliates.Undertheorderlyliquidationauthority,theFDICmaybeappointedasreceiverforthe

systemicallyimportantinstitution,anditsfailednon-banksubsidiaries,forpurposesofliquidatingthe

entityif,amongotherconditions,itisdeterminedatthetimeoftheinstitution™sfailurethatitisindefault

orindangerofdefaultandthefailureposesarisktothestabilityoftheU.S.financialsystem.
IftheFDICisappointedasreceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthority,thenthepowersofthe
receiver,andtherightsandobligationsofcreditorsandotherpartieswhohavedealtwiththeinstitution,

wouldbedeterminedundertheDodd-FrankActprovisions,andnotundertheinsolvencylawthatwould
18otherwiseapply.Thepowersofthereceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthoritywerebasedonthe
powersoftheFDICasreceiverfordepositoryinstitutionsundertheFDIA.However,theprovisions

governingtherightsofcreditorsundertheorderlyliquidationauthorityweremodifiedincertainrespectsto

reducedisparitieswiththetreatmentofcreditors™claimsundertheU.S.BankruptcyCodeascomparedto

thetreatmentofthoseclaimsunderthenewauthority.Nonetheless,substantialdifferencesintherightsof

creditorsexistasbetweenthesetworegimes,includingtherightoftheFDICtodisregardthestrictpriority

ofcreditorclaimsinsomecircumstances,theuseofanadministrativeclaimsproceduretodetermine

creditors™claims(asopposedtothejudicialprocedureutilizedinbankruptcyproceedings),andtherightof

theFDICtotransferclaimstoaﬁbridgeﬂentity.
TheorderlyliquidationauthorityprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActbecameeffectiveupon
enactment.However,anumberofrulemakingsarerequiredunderthetermsofDodd-Frank,andanumber

ofprovisionsofthenewauthorityrequireclarification.TheFDIChascompleteditsinitialphaseof

rulemakingundertheorderlyliquidationauthority,butadditionalrulesareunderconsideration.
Anorderlyliquidationfundwillfundsuchliquidationproceedingsthroughborrowingsfromthe
TreasuryDepartmentandrisk-basedassessmentsmade,first,onentitiesthatreceivedmoreintheresolution

thantheywouldhavereceivedinliquidationtotheextentofsuchexcess,andsecond,ifnecessary,onbank

holdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T.Ifanorderly

liquidationistriggered,M&Tcouldfaceassessmentsfortheorderlyliquidationfund.
DepositorPreference
Underfederallaw,depositorsandcertainclaimsforadministrativeexpensesandemployeecompensation

againstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverothergeneralunsecuredclaims

againstsuchaninstitutionintheﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.If

aninsureddepositoryinstitutionfails,insuredanduninsureddepositors,alongwiththeFDIC,willhave

priorityinpaymentaheadofunsecured,non-depositcreditors,includingdepositorswhosedepositsare

payableonlyoutsideoftheUnitedStatesandtheparentbankholdingcompany,withrespecttoany

extensionsofcredittheyhavemadetosuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.
FinancialPrivacy
Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveadoptedrulesthatlimittheabilityofbanksandotherfinancial

institutionstodisclosenon-publicinformationaboutconsumerstonon-affiliatedthirdparties.These

limitationsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,allowconsumers

topreventdisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtoanon-affiliatedthirdparty.Theseregulationsaffect

howconsumerinformationistransmittedthroughdiversifiedfinancialcompaniesandconveyedtooutside

vendors.Inaddition,consumersmayalsopreventdisclosureofcertaininformationamongaffiliated

companiesthatisassembledorusedtodetermineeligibilityforaproductorservice,suchasthatshownon

consumercreditreportsandassetandincomeinformationfromapplications.Consumersalsohavethe

optiontodirectbanksandotherfinancialinstitutionsnottoshareinformationabouttransactionsand

experienceswithaffiliatedcompaniesforthepurposeofmarketingproductsorservices.
ConsumerProtectionLaws
Inconnectionwiththeirrespectivelendingandleasingactivities,M&TBank,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,and

certainoftheirsubsidiaries,areeachsubjecttoanumberoffederalandstatelawsdesignedtoprotect

borrowersandpromotelendingtovarioussectorsoftheeconomy.TheselawsincludetheEqualCredit

OpportunityAct,theFairCreditReportingAct,theFairandAccurateCreditTransactionsAct,theTruthin

LendingAct,theHomeMortgageDisclosureAct,andtheRealEstateSettlementProceduresAct,and

variousstatelawcounterparts.
Inaddition,federallawcurrentlycontainsextensivecustomerprivacyprotectionprovisions.Under
theseprovisions,afinancialinstitutionmustprovidetoitscustomers,attheinceptionofthecustomer

relationshipandannuallythereafter,theinstitution™spoliciesandproceduresregardingthehandlingof

customers™nonpublicpersonalfinancialinformation.Theseprovisionsalsoprovidethat,exceptforcertain

limitedexceptions,afinancialinstitutionmaynotprovidesuchpersonalinformationtounaffiliatedthird

partiesunlesstheinstitutiondisclosestothecustomerthatsuchinformationmaybesoprovidedandthe

customerisgiventheopportunitytooptoutofsuchdisclosure.Federallawmakesitacriminaloffense,

exceptinlimitedcircumstances,toobtainorattempttoobtaincustomerinformationofafinancialnature

byfraudulentordeceptivemeans.
19SinceJuly1,2010,afederalbankingruleundertheElectronicFundTransferActprohibitsfinancial
institutionsfromchargingconsumersfeesforpayingoverdraftsonautomatedtellermachines(ﬁATMﬂ)and
one-timedebitcardtransactions,unlessaconsumerconsents,oroptsin,totheoverdraftserviceforthose

typeoftransactions.Ifaconsumerdoesnotoptin,anyATMtransactionordebitthatoverdrawsthe

consumer™saccountwillbedenied.Overdraftsonthepaymentofchecksandregularelectronicbill

paymentsarenotcoveredbythisnewrule.Beforeoptingin,theconsumermustbeprovidedanoticethat

explainsthefinancialinstitution™soverdraftservices,includingthefeesassociatedwiththeservice,andthe

consumer™schoices.Financialinstitutionsmustprovideconsumerswhodonotoptinwiththesame

accountterms,conditionsandfeatures(includingpricing)thattheyprovidetoconsumerswhodooptin.
ConsumerFinancialProtectionBureauSupervision
InJuly2011,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.werenotifiedthattheywillbesupervisedbytheCFPB

forcertainconsumerprotectionpurposes.TheCFPBwillfocuson:
Šriskstoconsumersandcompliancewiththefederalconsumerfinanciallaws,whenitevaluatesthe

policiesandpracticesofafinancialinstitution;
Šthemarketsinwhichfirmsoperateandriskstoconsumersposedbyactivitiesinthosemarkets;
Šdepositoryinstitutionsthatofferawidevarietyofconsumerfinancialproductsandservices;
Šdepositoryinstitutionswithamorespecializedfocus;and
Šnon-depositorycompaniesthatofferoneormoreconsumerfinancialproductsorservices.
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002

TheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002implementedabroadrangeofcorporategovernance,accountingand

reportingmeasuresforcompaniesthathavesecuritiesregisteredundertheExchangeAct,including

publicly-heldbankholdingcompaniessuchasM&T.Specifically,theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002andthe

variousregulationspromulgatedthereunder,established,amongotherthings:(i)requirementsforaudit

committees,includingindependence,expertise,andresponsibilities;(ii)responsibilitiesregardingfinancial

statementsfortheChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerofthereportingcompany;(iii)the

forfeitureofbonusesorotherincentive-basedcompensationandprofitsfromthesaleofthereporting

company™ssecuritiesbytheChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerinthetwelve-monthperiod

followingtheinitialpublicationofanyfinancialstatementsthatlaterrequirerestatement;(iv)thecreation

ofanindependentaccountingoversightboard;(v)standardsforauditorsandregulationofaudits,including

independenceprovisionsthatrestrictnon-auditservicesthataccountantsmayprovidetotheirauditclients;

(vi)disclosureandreportingobligationsforthereportingcompanyandtheirdirectorsandexecutive

officers,includingacceleratedreportingofstocktransactionsandaprohibitionontradingduringpension

blackoutperiods;(vii)aprohibitiononpersonalloanstodirectorsandofficers,exceptcertainloansmade

byinsuredfinancialinstitutionsonnonpreferentialtermsandincompliancewithotherbankregulatory

requirements;and(viii)arangeofcivilandcriminalpenaltiesforfraudandotherviolationsofthesecurities

laws.CommunityReinvestmentAct
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubjecttotheprovisionsoftheCRA.Underthetermsofthe

CRA,eachappropriatefederalbankregulatoryagencyisrequired,inconnectionwithitsexaminationofa

bank,toassesssuchbank™srecordinassessingandmeetingthecreditneedsofthecommunitiesservedby

thatbank,includinglow-andmoderate-incomeneighborhoods.Duringtheseexaminations,theregulatory

agencyratessuchbank™scompliancewiththeCRAasﬁOutstanding,ﬂﬁSatisfactory,ﬂﬁNeedstoImproveﬂor

ﬁSubstantialNoncompliance.ﬂTheregulatoryagency™sassessmentoftheinstitution™srecordispartofthe

regulatoryagency™sconsiderationofapplicationstoacquire,mergeorconsolidatewithanotherbanking

institutionoritsholdingcompany,ortoopenorrelocateabranchoffice.M&TBankhasaCRAratingof

ﬁOutstandingﬂandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasaCRAratingofﬁSatisfactory.ﬂInthecaseofabankholding

companyapplyingforapprovaltoacquireabankorbankholdingcompany,theFederalReserveBoardwill

assesstherecordofeachsubsidiarybankoftheapplicantbankholdingcompanyinconsideringthe

application,andsuchrecordsmaybethebasisfordenyingtheapplication.TheBankingLawcontains

provisionssimilartotheCRAwhichareapplicabletoNewYork-charteredbanks.M&TBankhasaCRA

ratingofﬁOutstandingﬂasdeterminedbytheNewYorkStateDepartmentofFinancialServices.
20USAPatriotAct
TheUnitingandStrengtheningAmericabyProvidingAppropriateToolsRequiredtoInterceptand

ObstructTerrorismActof2001(theﬁUSAPatriotActﬂ)imposesobligationsonU.S.financialinstitutions,

includingbanksandbrokerdealersubsidiaries,toimplementandmaintainappropriatepolicies,procedures

andcontrolswhicharereasonablydesignedtoprevent,detectandreportinstancesofmoneylaunderingand

thefinancingofterrorismandtoverifytheidentityoftheircustomers.Inaddition,provisionsoftheUSA

PatriotActrequirethefederalfinancialinstitutionregulatoryagenciestoconsidertheeffectivenessofa

financialinstitution™santi-moneylaunderingactivitieswhenreviewingbankmergersandbankholding

companyacquisitions.Failureofafinancialinstitutiontomaintainandimplementadequateprogramsto

combatmoneylaunderingandterroristfinancingcouldhaveseriouslegalandreputationalconsequences

fortheinstitution.TheRegistrantanditsimpactedsubsidiarieshaveapprovedpoliciesandproceduresthat

arebelievedtobecompliantwiththeUSAPatriotAct.
OfficeofForeignAssetsControlRegulation
TheUnitedStateshasimposedeconomicsanctionsthataffecttransactionswithdesignatedforeign

countries,nationalsandothers.ThesearetypicallyknownastheﬁOFACﬂrulesbasedontheir

administrationbytheU.S.TreasuryDepartmentOfficeofForeignAssetsControl(ﬁOFACﬂ).TheOFAC-

administeredsanctionstargetingcountriestakemanydifferentforms.Generally,however,theycontainone

ormoreofthefollowingelements:(i)restrictionsontradewithorinvestmentinasanctionedcountry,

includingprohibitionsagainstdirectorindirectimportsfromandexportstoasanctionedcountryand

prohibitionsonﬁU.S.personsﬂengaginginfinancialtransactionsrelatingtomakinginvestmentsin,or

providinginvestment-relatedadviceorassistanceto,asanctionedcountry;and(ii)ablockingofassetsin

whichthegovernmentorspeciallydesignatednationalsofthesanctionedcountryhaveaninterest,by

prohibitingtransfersofpropertysubjecttoU.S.jurisdiction(includingpropertyinthepossessionorcontrol

ofU.S.persons).Blockedassets(e.g.propertyandbankdeposits)cannotbepaidout,withdrawn,setoffor

transferredinanymannerwithoutalicensefromOFAC.Failuretocomplywiththesesanctionscouldhave

seriouslegalandreputationalconsequences.
RegulationofInsurersandInsuranceBrokers
TheCompany™soperationsintheareasofinsurancebrokerageandreinsuranceofcreditlifeinsuranceare

subjecttoregulationandsupervisionbyvariousstateinsuranceregulatoryauthorities.Althoughthescope

ofregulationandformofsupervisionmayvaryfromstatetostate,insurancelawsgenerallygrantbroad

discretiontoregulatoryauthoritiesinadoptingregulationsandsupervisingregulatedactivities.This

supervisiongenerallyincludesthelicensingofinsurancebrokersandagentsandtheregulationofthe

handlingofcustomerfundsheldinafiduciarycapacity.CertainofM&T™sinsurancecompanysubsidiaries

aresubjecttoextensiveregulatorysupervisionandtoinsurancelawsandregulationsrequiring,amongother

things,maintenanceofcapital,recordkeeping,reportingandexaminations.
GovernmentalPolicies
TheearningsoftheCompanyaresignificantlyaffectedbythemonetaryandfiscalpoliciesofgovernmental

authorities,includingtheFederalReserveBoard.Amongtheinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyusedbythe

FederalReserveBoardtoimplementtheseobjectivesareopen-marketoperationsinU.S.Government

securitiesandfederalfunds,changesinthediscountrateonmemberbankborrowingsandchangesin

reserverequirementsagainstmemberbankdeposits.Theseinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyareusedin

varyingcombinationstoinfluencetheoveralllevelofbankloans,investmentsanddeposits,andtheinterest

rateschargedonloansandpaidfordeposits.TheFederalReserveBoardfrequentlyusestheseinstrumentsof

monetarypolicy,especiallyitsopen-marketoperationsandthediscountrate,toinfluencethelevelof

interestratesandtoaffectthestrengthoftheeconomy,thelevelofinflationorthepriceofthedollarin

foreignexchangemarkets.ThemonetarypoliciesoftheFederalReserveBoardhavehadasignificanteffect

ontheoperatingresultsofbankinginstitutionsinthepastandareexpectedtocontinuetodosointhe

future.Itisnotpossibletopredictthenatureoffuturechangesinmonetaryandfiscalpolicies,ortheeffect

whichtheymayhaveontheCompany™sbusinessandearnings.
21CompetitionTheCompanycompetesinofferingcommercialandpersonalfinancialserviceswithotherbanking

institutionsandwithfirmsinanumberofotherindustries,suchasthriftinstitutions,creditunions,

personalloancompanies,salesfinancecompanies,leasingcompanies,securitiesfirmsandinsurance

companies.Furthermore,diversifiedfinancialservicescompaniesareabletoofferacombinationofthese

servicestotheircustomersonanationwidebasis.TheCompany™soperationsaresignificantlyimpactedby

stateandfederalregulationsapplicabletothebankingindustry.Moreover,theprovisionsoftheGramm-

Leach-BlileyActof1999,theInterstateBankingActandtheBankingLawhaveallowedforincreased

competitionamongdiversifiedfinancialservicesproviders.
OtherLegislativeandRegulatoryInitiatives
ProposalsmaybeintroducedintheUnitedStatesCongressandstatelegislatures,aswellasbyregulatory

agencies.Suchinitiativesmayincludeproposalstoexpandorcontractthepowersofbankholding

companiesanddepositoryinstitutionsorproposalstosubstantiallychangethefinancialinstitution

regulatorysystem.Suchlegislationcouldchangebankingstatutesandtheoperatingenvironmentofthe

Registrantinsubstantialandunpredictableways.Ifenacted,suchlegislationcouldincreaseordecreasethe

costofdoingbusiness,limitorexpandpermissibleactivitiesoraffectthecompetitivebalanceamongbanks,

savingsassociations,creditunions,andotherfinancialinstitutions.M&Tcannotpredictwhetheranysuch

legislationwillbeenacted,and,ifenacted,theeffectthatit,oranyimplementingregulations,wouldhaveon

thefinancialconditionorresultsofoperationsoftheRegistrant.Achangeinstatutes,regulationsor

regulatorypoliciesapplicabletoM&Toranyofitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialeffectonthebusiness

oftheRegistrant.SeethesectioncaptionedﬁRecentDevelopmentsﬂincludedelsewhereinthisitem.
OtherInformation
ThroughalinkontheInvestorRelationssectionofM&T™swebsiteatwww.mtb.com,copiesofM&T™s

AnnualReportsonForm10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-QandCurrentReportsonForm8-K,and

amendmentstothosereportsfiledorfurnishedpursuanttoSection13(a)or15(d)oftheExchangeAct,are

madeavailable,freeofcharge,assoonasreasonablypracticableafterelectronicallyfilingsuchmaterialwith,

orfurnishingitto,theSecuritiesandExchangeCommission.Copiesofsuchreportsandotherinformation

arealsoavailableatnochargetoanypersonwhorequeststhemoratwww.sec.gov.Suchrequestsmaybe

directedtoM&TBankCorporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,13thFloor,

Buffalo,NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
CorporateGovernance
M&T™sCorporateGovernanceStandardsandthefollowingcorporategovernancedocumentsarealso

availableonM&T™swebsiteattheInvestorRelationslink:DisclosureandRegulationFDPolicy;Executive

CommitteeCharter;Nomination,CompensationandGovernanceCommitteeCharter;AuditandRisk

CommitteeCharter;FinancialReportingandDisclosureControlsandProceduresPolicy;CodeofEthicsfor

CEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers;CodeofBusinessConductandEthics;andEmployeeComplaint

ProceduresforAccountingandAuditingMatters.Copiesofsuchgovernancedocumentsarealsoavailable,

freeofcharge,toanypersonwhorequeststhem.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBankCorporation,

ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,13thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399(Telephone:

(716)842-5138).
StatisticalDisclosurePursuanttoGuide3
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.

Additionalinformationisincludedinthefollowingtables.
22Table1
SELECTEDCONSOLIDATEDYEAR-ENDBALANCES
20112010200920082007(Inthousands)
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
......$
154,960$101,222$133,335$10,284$18,431
Federalfundssold
...................2,85025,00020,11921,34748,038
Resellagreements
...................ŠŠŠ
90,000Š
Tradingaccount
....................561,834523,834386,984617,821281,244
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies...5,200,4894,177,7834,006,9683,909,4933,540,641
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions...................228,949251,544266,748135,585153,231
Other...........................2,243,7162,721,2133,506,8933,874,1295,268,126
Totalinvestmentsecurities
.......7,673,1547,150,5407,780,6097,919,2078,961,998
Loansandleases
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....15,952,10513,645,60013,790,73714,563,09113,387,026

RealestateŠconstruction
.........4,203,3244,332,6184,726,5704,568,3684,190,068
RealestateŠmortgage
............28,202,21722,854,16021,747,53319,224,00319,468,449
Consumer.......................12,020,22911,483,56412,041,61711,004,27511,306,719
Totalloansandleases
............60,377,87552,315,94252,306,45749,359,73748,352,262
Unearneddiscount
................(281,870)(325,560)(369,771)(359,274)(330,700)
Loansandleases,netofunearned
discount....................60,096,00551,990,38251,936,68649,000,46348,021,562
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........(908,290)(902,941)(878,022)(787,904)(759,439)
Loansandleases,net
............59,187,71551,087,44151,058,66448,212,55947,262,123
Goodwill..........................3,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,192,1283,196,433
Coredepositandotherintangible
assets...........................176,394125,917182,418183,496248,556
Realestateandotherassetsowned
.....156,592220,04994,60499,61740,175
Totalassets
........................77,924,28768,021,26368,880,39965,815,75764,875,639
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.........20,017,88314,557,56813,794,6368,856,1148,131,662
NOWaccounts
.....................1,912,2261,393,3491,396,4711,141,3081,190,161
Savingsdeposits
....................31,001,08326,431,28123,676,79819,488,91815,419,357
Timedeposits
......................6,107,5305,817,1707,531,4959,046,93710,668,581
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......355,9271,605,9161,050,4384,047,9865,856,427
Totaldeposits
..................59,394,64949,805,28447,449,83842,581,26341,266,188
Short-termborrowings
..............782,082947,4322,442,5823,009,7355,821,897
Long-termborrowings
...............6,686,2267,840,15110,240,01612,075,14910,317,945
Totalliabilities
.....................68,653,07859,663,56861,127,49259,031,02658,390,383
Shareholders™equity
.................9,271,2098,357,6957,752,9076,784,7316,485,256
Table2
SHAREHOLDERS,EMPLOYEESANDOFFICES
NumberatYear-End
20112010200920082007Shareholders.....................................15,95912,77313,20711,19711,611
Employees.......................................15,66613,36514,22613,62013,869
Offices..........................................849778832725760
23Table3
CONSOLIDATEDEARNINGS
20112010200920082007(Inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
...................$2,522,567$2,394,082$2,326,748$2,825,587$3,155,967
Depositsatbanks
..............................2,9348834109300
Federalfundssold
.............................574263254857
Resellagreements
..............................13240466
1,81722,978
Tradingaccount
...............................1,1986155341,469744
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
................................256,057324,695389,268438,409352,628
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
.....................9,1429,8698,4849,94611,339
Totalinterestincome
.........................2,792,0872,729,7952,725,1973,277,5913,544,813
Interestexpense

NOWaccounts
................................1,1458501,1222,8944,638
Savingsdeposits
...............................84,31485,226112,550248,083250,313
Timedeposits
.................................71,014100,241206,220330,389496,378
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................962
1,3682,39184,483207,990
Short-termborrowings
.........................1,0303,0067,129142,627274,079
Long-termborrowings
..........................243,866271,578340,037529,319461,178
Totalinterestexpense
.........................402,331462,269669,4491,337,7951,694,576
Netinterestincome
............................2,389,7562,267,5262,055,7481,939,7961,850,237
Provisionforcreditlosses
.......................270,000368,000604,000412,000192,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses...2,119,7561,899,5261,451,7481,527,7961,658,237
Otherincome

Mortgagebankingrevenues
......................166,021184,625207,561156,012111,893
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
...............455,095478,133469,195430,532409,462
Trustincome
.................................332,385122,613128,568156,149152,636
Brokerageservicesincome
.......................56,47049,66957,61164,18659,533
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
........27,22427,28623,12517,63030,271
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
................150,1872,7701,16534,4711,204
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)
losses......................................(72,915)(115,947)(264,363)(182,222)(127,300)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinother
comprehensiveincome(beforetaxes)
............(4,120)29,666126,066ŠŠ
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
............(77,035)(86,281)(138,297)(182,222)(127,300)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC...(24,231)(25,768)(25,898)(37,453)8,935

Otherrevenuesfromoperations
..................496,796355,053325,076299,674286,355
Totalotherincome
...........................1,582,9121,108,1001,048,106938,979932,989
Otherexpense

Salariesandemployeebenefits
....................1,203,993999,7091,001,873957,086908,315
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
...................249,514216,064211,391188,845169,050
Printing,postageandsupplies
....................40,91733,84738,21635,86035,765
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets......................................61,61758,10364,25566,64666,486
FDICassessments
..............................100,23079,32496,5196,6894,203
Othercostsofoperations
........................821,797527,790568,309471,870443,870
Totalotherexpense
..........................2,478,0681,914,8371,980,5631,726,9961,627,689
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.....................1,224,6001,092,789519,291739,779963,537
Incometaxes
..................................365,121356,628139,400183,892309,278
Netincome
...................................$
859,479$736,161$379,891$555,887$654,259
Dividendsdeclared
Common..................................$
350,196$335,502$326,617$308,501$281,900
Preferred...................................48,20340,22531,946ŠŠ
24Table4
COMMONSHAREHOLDERDATA
20112010200920082007Pershare
Netincome
Basic........................................$
6.37$5.72$2.90$5.04$6.05
Diluted......................................6.355.692.895.015.95
Cashdividendsdeclared
..........................2.802.802.802.802.60
Commonshareholders™equityatyear-end
...........66.8263.5459.3156.2958.99
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equityatyear-end
....37.7933.2628.2725.9427.98
Dividendpayoutratio
............................44.15%48.98%97.36%55.62%43.12%
Table5
CHANGESININTERESTINCOMEANDEXPENSE(a)
2011Comparedwith2010
2010Comparedwith2009
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
VolumeRateVolumeRate(Increase(decrease)inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
..............$130,831221,381(90,550)$68,68716,04652,641
Depositsatbanks
..........................2,8462,444402544212
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresell
securities..............................(257)(76)(181)317348(31)
Tradingaccount
..........................62246181495693
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..........(36,338)(12,927)(23,411)9,51430,242(20,728)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions..........................(1,403)(1,244)(159)1,9642,584(620)
Other.................................(32,156)(23,759)(8,397)(73,893)(47,671)(26,222)
Totalinterestincome
....................$
64,145$6,792
Interestexpense

Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
.........................$29523065$
(272)119(391)
Savingsdeposits
.........................(912)13,025(13,937)(27,324)14,209(41,533)
Timedeposits
..........................(29,227)(1,558)(27,669)(105,979)(44,066)(61,913)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
..........(406)(228)(178)(1,023)(1,023)Š
Short-termborrowings
.....................(1,976)(1,361)(615)(4,123)(2,151)(1,972)
Long-termborrowings
.....................(27,712)(72,152)44,440(68,459)(56,729)(11,730)
Totalinterestexpense
....................$
(59,938)$(207,180)
(a)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Theapportionmentofchangesresultingfromthe
combinedeffectofbothvolumeandratewasbasedontheseparatelydeterminedvolumeandratechanges.
Item1A.
RiskFactors.
M&Tanditssubsidiariescouldbeadverselyimpactedbyvariousrisksanduncertaintieswhicharedifficult

topredict.Asafinancialinstitution,theCompanyhassignificantexposuretomarketrisk,including

interest-raterisk,liquidityriskandcreditrisk,amongothers.Adverseexperiencewiththeseorotherrisks

couldhaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellason

thevalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&T™scommonstock,inparticular.
25InterestRateRiskŠTheCompanyisexposedtointerestrateriskinitscorebankingactivitiesof
lendinganddeposit-takingsinceassetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamountsas
interestrateschange.Asaresult,netinterestincome,whichrepresentsthelargestrevenuesourceforthe

Company,issubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.TheCompanycloselymonitorsthesensitivity

ofnetinterestincometochangesininterestratesandattemptstolimitthevariabilityofnetinterestincome

asinterestrateschange.TheCompanymakesuseofbothon-andoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsto

mitigateexposuretointerestraterisk.Possibleactionstomitigatesuchriskinclude,butarenotlimitedto,

changesinthepricingofloananddepositproducts,modifyingthecompositionofearningassetsand

interest-bearingliabilities,andaddingto,modifyingorterminatinginterestrateswapagreementsorother

financialinstrumentsusedforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes.
LiquidityRiskŠLiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowand
liquidassetsareavailabletosatisfycurrentandfuturefinancialobligations,includingdemandsforloansand

depositwithdrawals,fundingoperatingcosts,andforothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskarises

wheneverthematuritiesoffinancialinstrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.TheCompany

obtainsfundingthroughdepositsandvariousshort-termandlong-termwholesaleborrowings,including

federalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase,brokeredcertificatesofdeposit,

CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsandborrowingsfromtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNewYorkand

others.ShouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionoritsdebt

ratings,orshouldtheavailabilityoffundingbecomerestrictedduetodisruptioninthefinancialmarkets,

theCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegativelyimpacted.The

Companyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimatetheliquidity

impactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.TheCompanyestimates

suchimpactbyattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesofcredit,availablecapacity

fromsecuredborrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.Tomitigatesuchrisk,theCompanymaintains

availablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandtheFederalHomeLoanBankof

NewYorkthataresecuredbyloansandinvestmentsecurities.Onanongoingbasis,managementclosely

monitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositionforcompliancewithinternalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailable

sourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfundingneedsinthenormalcourseofbusiness.
CreditRiskŠFactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomic
conditionsaffectingbusinessesandconsumers,ingeneral,and,duetothesizeoftheCompany™srealestate

loanportfolioandmortgage-relatedinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,realestatevaluations,inparticular.

OtherfactorsthatcaninfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperience,inadditiontogeneraleconomic

conditionsandborrowers™specificabilitiestorepayloans,include:(i)theimpactofdecliningrealestate

valuesintheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers;(ii)the

repaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sportfolioofresidentialmortgageloansand

residentialandothermortgageloanssupportingmortgage-relatedsecurities;(iii)theconcentrationsof

commercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;(iv)theamountofcommercialandindustrial

loanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareaandincentral

Pennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedlesseconomicgrowthandvitalitythanthevastmajorityof

otherregionsofthecountry;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,

whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloansoutstandingthanmany

otherloantypes.Considerableconcernsexistabouteconomicconditionsinbothnationalandinternational

markets;thelevelandvolatilityofenergyprices;aweakenedhousingmarket;thetroubledstateoffinancial

andcreditmarkets;FederalReservepositioningofmonetarypolicy;highlevelsofunemployment;the

impactofeconomicconditionsonbusinesses™operationsandabilitiestorepayloansinlightofcontinued

stagnantpopulationgrowthintheupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions;andcontinued

uncertaintyaboutpossibleresponsestostateandlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficits.
NumerousfactorscanaffecttheCompany™screditlossexperience.Tohelpmanagecreditrisk,the
Companymaintainsadetailedcreditpolicyandutilizesvariouscommitteesthatincludemembersofsenior

managementtoapprovesignificantextensionsofcredit.TheCompanyalsomaintainsacreditreview

departmentthatregularlyreviewstheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliostoensurecompliancewith

establishedcreditpolicy.TheCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialand

commercialrealestateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiateriskwithintheportfolioandconsider

theexpectationsofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswithalower

expectationofdefaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloangradesandaregenerallyascribedlower

lossfactorswhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loanswithanelevatedlevelofcreditriskare
26classifiedasﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhendeterminingtheallowanceforcredit
losses.CriticizedloansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂiftheCompanynolongerexpectstocollectall

amountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.

Loanofficerswiththesupportofloanreviewpersonnelindifferentgeographiclocationsareresponsibleto

continuouslyreviewandreassignloangradestopassandcriticizedloansbasedontheirdetailedknowledge

ofindividualborrowersandtheirjudgmentoftheimpactonsuchborrowersresultingfromchanging

conditionsintheirrespectivegeographicregions.Onaquarterlybasis,theCompany™scentralizedloan

reviewdepartmentreviewsalllargerbalancecriticizedcommercialandcommercialrealestateloansto

determinetheappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhethertheloanshouldbereportedas

accruingornonaccruing.Forcriticizednonaccrualloans,additionalmeetingsareheldwithloanofficersand

theirmanagers,workoutspecialistsandseniormanagementtodiscusseachoftherelationships.Inanalyzing

criticizedloans,borrower-specificinformationisreviewed,includingoperatingresults,futurecashflows,

recentdevelopmentsandtheborrower™soutlook,andotherpertinentdata.Thetimingandextentof

potentiallosses,consideringcollateralvaluationandotherfactors,andtheCompany™spotentialcoursesof

actionarereviewed.Thecollectibilityofotherloansisgenerallyevaluatedcollectivelybyloantypeafter

consideringsuchfactorsaspaymentperformanceandrecentlossexperienceandtrends,whicharemainly

drivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesinthemarketplaceaswellastheamountofloandefaults.TheCompany

maintainsanallowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentappropriatelyreflectsthelosses

inherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Inaddition,theCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecurities

fordeclinesinvaluebelowamortizedcostthatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂAny

declinesinvaluebelowamortizedcostthataredeemedtobeﬁotherthantemporaryﬂarechargedto

earnings.EconomicRiskŠTheU.S.economyexperiencedweakeconomicconditionsduringthelastseveral
years.Thoseconditionscontributedtoriskasfollows:
ŠThesignificantdownturnintheresidentialrealestatemarketthatbeganin2007continuedthrough

the2011year-end.Theimpactofthatdownturnhasresultedindepressedhomeprices,higherthan

historicallevelsofforeclosuresandloancharge-offs,andlowermarketpricesoninvestment

securitiesbackedbyresidentialrealestate.ThosefactorshavenegativelyimpactedM&T™sresultsof

operationsandcouldcontinuetodoso.
ŠLowerdemandfortheCompany™sproductsandservicesandlowerrevenuesandearningscould

resultfromongoingweakeconomicconditions.Thoseconditionscouldalsoresultinhigherloan

charge-offsduetotheinabilityofborrowerstorepayloans.
ŠLowerfeeincomefromtheCompany™sbrokerageandtrustbusinessescouldresultfromsignificant

declinesinstockmarketprices.
ŠLowerearningscouldresultfromother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtothe

Company™sinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.
ŠHigherFDICassessmentscouldbeimposedontheCompanyduetobankfailuresthathavecaused

theFDICDepositInsuranceFundtofallbelowminimumrequiredlevels.
ŠThereisnoassurancethattheEmergencyEconomicStabilizationActof2008ortheAmerican

RecoveryandReinvestmentActof2009willimprovetheconditionofthefinancialmarkets.
SupervisionandRegulationŠTheCompanyissubjecttoextensivestateandfederallawsand
regulationsgoverningthebankingindustry,inparticular,andpubliccompanies,ingeneral,includinglaws
relatedtocorporatetaxation.ManyofthoselawsandregulationsaredescribedinPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness.ﬂ

Changesinthoseorotherlawsandregulations,orthedegreeoftheCompany™scompliancewiththoselaws

andregulationsasjudgedbyanyofseveralregulators,includingtaxauthorities,thatoverseetheCompany,

couldhaveasignificanteffectontheCompany™soperationsanditsfinancialresults.Forexample,theDodd-

FrankActrepresentsacomprehensiveoverhaulofthefinancialservicesindustrywithintheUnitedStates

andrequiresfederalagenciestoimplementmanynewrules.Itisexpectedthatataminimumthosenew

ruleswillresultinincreasedcosts,decreasedrevenuesandmorestringentcapitalandliquidityrequirements.
DetaileddiscussionsofthespecificrisksoutlinedaboveandotherrisksfacingtheCompanyare
includedwithinthisAnnualReportonForm10-KinPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness,ﬂandPartII,Item7

ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂFurthermore,

inPartII,Item7undertheheadingﬁForward-LookingStatementsﬂisincludedadescriptionofcertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptionsidentifiedbymanagementthataredifficulttopredictandthatcould

materiallyaffecttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellasthevalueofthe

Company™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&Tcommonstock,inparticular.
27Inaddition,themarketpriceofM&Tcommonstockmayfluctuatesignificantlyinresponsetoa
numberofotherfactors,includingchangesinsecuritiesanalysts™estimatesoffinancialperformance,
volatilityofstockmarketpricesandvolumes,rumorsorerroneousinformation,changesinmarket

valuationsofsimilarcompaniesandchangesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FinancialAccountingStandardsBoardorotherregulatoryagencies.
Item1B.
UnresolvedStaffComments.
None.
Item2.
Properties.BothM&TandM&TBankmaintaintheirexecutiveofficesatOneM&TPlazainBuffalo,NewYork.This
twenty-onestoryheadquartersbuilding,containingapproximately300,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,is

ownedinfeebyM&TBankandwascompletedin1967.M&T,M&TBankandtheirsubsidiariesoccupy

approximately98%ofthebuildingandtheremainderisleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,

2011,thecostofthisproperty(includingimprovementssubsequenttotheinitialconstruction),netof

accumulateddepreciation,was$9.7million.
InSeptember1992,M&TBankacquiredanadditionalfacilityinBuffalo,NewYorkwith
approximately395,000rentablesquarefeetofspace.Approximately89%ofthisfacility,knownasM&T

Center,isoccupiedbyM&TBankanditssubsidiaries,withtheremainderleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.

AtDecember31,2011,thecostofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netof

accumulateddepreciation,was$9.7million.
M&TBankalsoownsandoccupiestwoseparatefacilitiesintheBuffaloareawhichsupportcertain
back-officeandoperationsfunctionsoftheCompany.Thetotalsquarefootageofthesefacilities

approximates225,000squarefeetandtheircombinedcost(includingimprovementssubsequentto

acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$19.9millionatDecember31,2011.
M&TBankalsoownsafacilityinSyracuse,NewYorkwithapproximately160,000rentablesquare
feetofspace.Approximately48%ofthisfacilityisoccupiedbyM&TBank.AtDecember31,2011,thecost

ofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$5.1million.
M&TBankalsoownsfacilitiesinHarrisburg,PennsylvaniaandMillsboro,Delawarewith
approximately215,000and325,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupies

approximately34%and85%oftheserespectivefacilities.AtDecember31,2011,thecostofthesebuildings

(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$11.6million

and$7.0million,respectively.
TheCompanyobtainedfacilitiesinconnectionwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitionin
Wilmington,Delaware,withapproximately355,000(knownasWilmingtonTrustCenter)and295,000

(knownasWilmingtonTrustPlaza)rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.TheCompanyoccupies

approximately50%ofeachoftheserespectivefacilities.AtDecember31,2011,thecostofthesebuildings,

netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$40.5millionand$14.3million,respectively.
NootherpropertiesownedbytheCompanyhavemorethan100,000squarefeetofspace.Thecost,
netofaccumulateddepreciationandamortization,oftheCompany™spremisesandequipmentisdetailedin

note6ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂOfthe776domesticbankingofficesoftheRegistrant™ssubsidiarybanksat

December31,2011,313areownedinfeeand463areleased.
Item3.
LegalProceedings.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingandthreatened
legalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Management,afterconsultationwith

legalcounsel,doesnotanticipatethattheaggregateultimateliabilityarisingoutoflitigationpendingagainst

M&ToritssubsidiarieswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.Onanon-going

basistheCompanyassessesitsliabilitiesandcontingenciesinconnectionwithsuchlegalproceedings.For

thosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincurlossesandtheamountsofthelossescanbe

reasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseandcorrespondingliabilityinitsconsolidated

financialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatenedlitigationcouldresultinexposureinexcessof

thatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrentlyestimable.Althoughnotconsideredprobable,the
28rangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,
wasbetween$0and$40million.AlthoughtheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheoutcomeofpending

litigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition,itcannotruleoutthe

possibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidatedresultsofoperationsforaparticular

reportingperiodinthefuture.
Item4.
MineSafetyDisclosures.
Notapplicable.

ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
InformationconcerningtheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedbelowasofFebruary23,2012.The

yeartheofficerwasfirstappointedtotheindicatedpositionwiththeRegistrantoritssubsidiariesisshown

parenthetically.Inthecaseofeachentitynotedbelow,officers™termsrununtilthefirstmeetingoftheboard

ofdirectorsaftersuchentity™sannualmeeting,whichinthecaseoftheRegistranttakesplaceimmediately

followingtheAnnualMeetingofShareholders,anduntiltheirsuccessorsareelectedandqualified.
RobertG.Wilmers,age77,ischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard(2000)anda
director(1982)oftheRegistrant.FromApril1998untilJuly2000,heservedaspresidentandchiefexecutive

officeroftheRegistrantandfromJuly2000untilJune2005heservedaschairman,president(1988)and

chiefexecutiveofficer(1983)oftheRegistrant.Heischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard

(2005)andadirector(1982)ofM&TBank,andpreviouslyservedaschairmanoftheboardofM&TBank

fromMarch1983untilJuly2003andaspresidentofM&TBankfromMarch1984untilJune1996.
MichaelP.Pinto,age56,isavicechairman(2007)andadirector(2003)oftheRegistrant.
Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997).Heisavicechairmanandadirector

(2003)ofM&TBankandisthechairmanandchiefexecutiveofficerofM&TBank™sMid-AtlanticDivision

(2005).PriortoApril2005,Mr.PintowasthechieffinancialofficeroftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank

(1996),andheoversawtheCompany™sFinanceDivision,TechnologyandBankingOperationsDivision,

CorporateServicesGroup,TreasuryDivisionandGeneralCounsel™sOffice.Heisanexecutivevicepresident

(1996)andadirector(1998)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andadirector(2011)ofWilmingtonTrust

Company.Mr.PintoischairmanoftheboardandadirectorofWilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors

(2006).MarkJ.Czarnecki,age56,ispresidentandadirector(2007)oftheRegistrantandpresidentanda
director(2007)ofM&TBank.Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1999)and

M&TBank(1997)andwasresponsiblefortheM&TInvestmentGroupandtheCompany™sRetailBanking

network.Mr.Czarneckiisadirector(1999)ofM&TSecurities,chairmanoftheboard,presidentandchief

executiveofficer(2007)andadirector(2005)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andadirector(2011)of

WilmingtonTrustCompany.
RobertJ.Bojdak,age56,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefcreditofficer(2004)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank,andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™senterprise-wideriskincluding

credit,operational,complianceandinvestmentrisk.FromApril2002toApril2004,Mr.Bojdakservedas

seniorvicepresidentandcreditdeputyforM&TBank.PrevioustojoiningM&TBankin2002,Mr.Bojdak

servedinseveralseniormanagementpositionsatKeyCorp.,mostrecentlyasexecutivevicepresidentand

regionalcreditexecutive.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2004),

andadirector(2011)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.
StephenJ.Braunscheidel,age55,isanexecutivevicepresident(2004)oftheRegistrantandM&T
Bank,andisinchargeoftheCompany™sHumanResourcesDivision.Previously,hewasaseniorvice

presidentintheM&TInvestmentGroup,wherehemanagedthePrivateClientServicesandEmployee

Benefitsdepartments.Mr.BraunscheidelhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithM&TBanksince

1978.AtwoodCollins,III,age65,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996),andisthepresidentandchiefoperatingofficerofM&TBank™sMid-AtlanticDivision.Mr.Collinsis

atrusteeofM&TRealEstate(1995)andadirectorofM&TSecurities(2008).
WilliamJ.Farrell,II,age54,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrantandM&TBank(2011),
andisresponsibleforM&T™sWealthandInstitutionalServicesDivision,whichincludesWealthAdvisory

Services,CorporateClientServices,AssetManagement,M&TSecuritiesandM&TInsuranceAgency.

Mr.FarrelljoinedtheCompanythroughtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.HejoinedWilmingtonTrustin

1976andheldanumberofseniormanagementpositions,mostrecentlyasexecutivevicepresidentandhead

oftheCorporateClientServicesbusiness.Mr.FarrellisanexecutivevicepresidentofWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.(2011),andanexecutivevicepresident(2002)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.
29RichardS.Gold,age51,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2007)andM&TBank
(2006)andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sResidentialMortgage,ConsumerLendingand
BusinessBankingDivisions.Mr.GoldservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2006,most

recentlyresponsiblefortheRetailBankingDivision,includingM&TSecurities.Mr.Goldisanexecutivevice

presidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2006).
BrianE.Hickey,age59,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996).HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(1994)oftheRochesterDivisionofM&TBank.

Mr.Hickeyisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsinUpstateandWesternNewYorkand

intheNorthernandCentral/WesternPennsylvaniaregions.Mr.HickeyisalsoresponsibleforM&TBank™s

MiddleMarketsegmentandtheAutoFloorPlanlendingbusiness.
RenéF.Jones,age47,isanexecutivevicepresident(2006)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.Previously,Mr.JoneswasaseniorvicepresidentinchargeoftheFinancial

PerformanceMeasurementdepartmentwithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivision.Mr.Joneshasheldanumberof

managementpositionswithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivisionsince1992.Mr.Jonesisanexecutivevicepresident

andchieffinancialofficer(2005)andadirector(2007)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andheischairmanofthe

board,president(2009)andatrustee(2005)ofM&TRealEstate.HeisadirectorofM&TInsuranceAgency

(2007)andM&TSecurities(2005).Mr.Jonesisadirector(2011)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.
DarrenJ.King,age42,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2010)andM&TBank(2009),
andisinchargeoftheRetailBankingDivision.Mr.KingpreviouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&T

Bank,mostrecentlyresponsiblefortheBusinessBankingDivision,andhasheldanumberofmanagement

positionswithinM&TBanksince2000.Mr.KingisanexecutivevicepresidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

(2009).KevinJ.Pearson,age50,isanexecutivevicepresident(2002)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank.Heisa
memberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(2006)oftheNewYorkCity/LongIslandDivisionofM&TBank.

Mr.Pearsonisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsintheNewYorkmetropolitanareaand

PhiladelphiamarketsofM&TBank,aswellastheCompany™scommercialrealestatebusiness,Commercial

MarketingandTreasuryManagement.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentofM&TRealEstate(2003),chairman

oftheboard(2009)andadirector(2003)ofM&TRealtyCapital,anexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorof

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2008)andadirector(2011)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.Mr.Pearsonservedas

seniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2002.
MicheleD.Trolli,age50,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefinformationofficeroftheRegistrant
andM&TBank(2005).SheisinchargeoftheCompany™sTechnology/BankingOperationsDivision,which

encompassesTechnology,AlternativeBanking,CentralandLendingOperations,CorporateServicesand

GlobalSourcing.Ms.Trolliservedasseniordirector,globalsystemssupport,withFranklinResources,Inc.,

aworldwideinvestmentmanagementcompany,fromMay2000throughDecember2004.
D.ScottN.Warman,age46,isanexecutivevicepresident(2009)andtreasurer(2008)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sTreasuryDivision.Mr.Warman

previouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositions

withinM&TBanksince1995.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandtreasurerofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

(2008),atrusteeofM&TRealEstate(2009)andadirectorofM&TSecurities(2008).
PARTII
Item5.
MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedShareholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesof

EquitySecurities.
TheRegistrant™scommonstockistradedunderthesymbolMTBontheNewYorkStockExchange.See

cross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-Kformarket

pricesoftheRegistrant™scommonstock,approximatenumberofcommonshareholdersatyear-end,

frequencyandamountsofdividendsoncommonstockandrestrictionsonthepaymentofdividends.
Duringthefourthquarterof2011,M&Tdidnotissueanysharesofitscommonstockthatwerenot
registeredundertheSecuritiesActof1933.
EquityCompensationPlanInformation
ThefollowingtableprovidesinformationasofDecember31,2011withrespecttosharesofcommonstock

thatmaybeissuedunderM&TBankCorporation™sexistingequitycompensationplans.M&TBank

Corporation™sexistingequitycompensationplansincludetheM&TBankCorporation1983StockOption
30Plan,the2001StockOptionPlan,the2005IncentiveCompensationPlan,whichreplacedthe2001Stock
OptionPlan,the2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan,andtheM&TBankCorporationEmployee

StockPurchasePlan,eachofwhichhasbeenpreviouslyapprovedbyshareholders,andtheM&TBank

Corporation2008Directors™StockPlanandtheM&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,eachof

whichdidnotrequireshareholderapproval.
Thetabledoesnotincludeinformationwithrespecttosharesofcommonstocksubjectto
outstandingoptionsandrightsassumedbyM&TBankCorporationinconnectionwithmergersand

acquisitionsofthecompaniesthatoriginallygrantedthoseoptionsandrights.Footnote(1)tothetablesets

forththetotalnumberofsharesofcommonstockissuableupontheexerciseofsuchassumedoptionsand

rightsasofDecember31,2011,andtheirweighted-averageexerciseprice.
PlanCategory
Numberof
SecuritiestobeIssuedUpon
Exerciseof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
Weighted-AverageExercisePriceof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
NumberofSecurities
RemainingAvailable
forFutureIssuance
UnderEquity
CompensationPlans
(ExcludingSecurities
ReflectedinColumnA)
(A)(B)(C)Equitycompensationplansapprovedby
securityholders:
2001StockOptionPlan
................4,133,425$89.12Š
2005IncentiveCompensationPlan
.......5,437,289102.802,914,212
2009EquityIncentiveCompensation
Plan..............................3,48674.112,705,420
EmployeeStockPurchasePlan
............164,82166.93266,293
Equitycompensationplansnotapprovedby
securityholders:

2008Directors™StockPlan
..............4,88176.3430,095
DeferredBonusPlan
...................48,13661.95Š
Total.............................9,792,038$96.205,916,020
(1)AsofDecember31,2011,atotalof285,832sharesofM&TBankCorporationcommonstockwereissuableupon
exerciseofoutstandingoptionsorrightsassumedbyM&TBankCorporationinconnectionwithmergerand
acquisitiontransactions.Theweighted-averageexercisepriceofthoseoutstandingoptionsorrightsis$145.46per

commonshare.
Equitycompensationplansadoptedwithouttheapprovalofshareholdersaredescribedbelow:
2008Directors™StockPlan.
M&TBankCorporationmaintainsaplanfornon-employeemembersof
theBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankCorporationandthemembersofitsDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil,and
thenon-employeemembersoftheBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankandthemembersofitsregional

DirectorsAdvisoryCouncils,whichallowssuchdirectors,advisorydirectorsandmembersofregional

DirectorsAdvisoryCouncilstoreceivealloraportionoftheirdirectorialcompensationinsharesofM&T

commonstock.
DeferredBonusPlan.
M&TBankCorporationmaintainsadeferredbonusplanwhichwasfrozen
effectiveJanuary1,2010anddidnotallowanydeferralsafterthatdate.PriortoJanuary1,2010,theplan

allowedeligibleofficersofM&Tanditssubsidiariestoelecttodeferalloraportionoftheirannualincentive

compensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestmentoptions,includingM&Tcommon

stock.Atthetimeofthedeferralelection,participantsalsoelectedthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.

Suchdistributionsarepayableincash,withtheexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstock

whicharedistributableintheformofsharesofcommonstock.
PerformanceGraph
ThefollowinggraphcontainsacomparisonofthecumulativeshareholderreturnonM&Tcommonstock

againstthecumulativetotalreturnsoftheKBWBankIndex,compiledbyKeefe,Bruyette&Woods,Inc.,

andtheS&P500Index,compiledbyStandard&Poor™sCorporation,forthefive-yearperiodbeginningon

December31,2006andendingonDecember31,2011.TheKBWBankIndexisamarketcapitalization

indexconsistingof24leadingnationalmoney-centerbanksandregionalinstitutions.
31$0200620072008200920102011
$50$100$150$200Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Return*
M&T Bank CorporationKBW Bank Index
S&P 500 Index
ShareholderValueatYearEnd*
200620072008200920102011
M&TBankCorporation
1006850628375
KBWBankIndex1007946485440
S&P500Index10010566849799
*Assumesa$100investmentonDecember31,2006andreinvestmentofalldividends.
Inaccordancewithandtotheextentpermittedbyapplicablelaworregulation,theinformationset
forthaboveundertheheadingﬁPerformanceGraphﬂshallnotbeincorporatedbyreferenceintoanyfuture
filingundertheSecuritiesActof1933,asamended(theﬁSecuritiesActﬂ),ortheExchangeActandshallnot

bedeemedtobeﬁsolicitingmaterialﬂortobeﬁfiledﬂwiththeSECundertheSecuritiesActortheExchange

Act.IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
InFebruary2007,M&TannouncedthatithadbeenauthorizedbyitsBoardofDirectorstopurchaseupto

5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.M&Tdidnotrepurchaseanysharespursuanttosuchplanduring2011.
Duringthefourthquarterof2011M&Tpurchasedsharesofitscommonstockasfollows:
Period(a)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
Purchased(1)(b)AveragePricePaid
perShare
(orUnit)
(c)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
PurchasedasPartof
PubliclyAnnouncedPlansor
Programs(d)MaximumNumber(or
ApproximateDollarValue)
ofShares
(orUnits)
thatmayyet
bePurchased
Underthe
Plansor
Programs(2)October1-October31,2011
......................Š$ŠŠ
2,181,500November1-November30,2011
..................ŠŠŠ
2,181,500December1-December31,2011
...................739
76.89Š2,181,500
Total..........................................739
$76.89Š
(1)Thetotalnumberofsharespurchasedduringtheperiodsindicatedreflectssharesdeemedtohavebeenreceived
fromemployeeswhoexercisedstockoptionsbyattestingtopreviouslyacquiredcommonsharesinsatisfactionof
theexerciseprice,asispermittedunderM&T™sstockoptionplans.
(2)OnFebruary22,2007,M&Tannouncedaprogramtopurchaseupto5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.No
shareswerepurchasedundersuchprogramduringtheperiodsindicated.
32Item6.
SelectedFinancialData.
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
Item7.
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.
CorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYorkwith

consolidatedassetsof$77.9billionatDecember31,2011.Theconsolidatedfinancialinformationpresented

hereinreflectsM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries,whicharereferredtocollectivelyasﬁtheCompany.ﬂM&T™s

whollyownedbanksubsidiariesareM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmington

Trust,N.A.ﬂ).
M&TBank,withtotalassetsof$76.9billionatDecember31,2011,isaNewYork-chartered
commercialbankwith774domesticbankingofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,

Virginia,WestVirginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,

Canada,andanofficeintheCaymanIslands.M&TBankanditssubsidiariesofferabroadrangeoffinancial

servicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalclients,governmentalentitiesandfinancial

institutionslocatedintheirmarkets.LendingislargelyfocusedonconsumersresidinginNewYorkState,

Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,DelawareandWashington,D.C.,andonsmallandmediumsize

businessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansareoriginatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstatesandin

Ontario,Canada.Certainlendingactivitiesarealsoconductedinotherstatesthroughvarioussubsidiaries.

M&TBank™ssubsidiariesinclude:M&TRealEstateTrust,acommercialmortgagelender;M&TRealty

CapitalCorporation,amultifamilycommercialmortgagelender;M&TSecurities,Inc.,whichprovides

brokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices;WilmingtonTrustCompany,anon-depositorytrust

company;WilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.,whichservesasinvestmentadvisortotheMTB

GroupofFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,andotherfundsandinstitutionalclients;andM&T

InsuranceAgency,Inc.,aninsuranceagency.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,withtotalassetsof$1.1billionatDecember31,2011,isanationalbank
withofficesinWilmington,DelawareandOakfield,NewYork.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,formerlyknownas

M&TBank,NationalAssociation,offersselecteddepositandloanproductsonanationwidebasis,largely

throughtelephone,Internetanddirectmailmarketingtechniques.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.andits

subsidiariesoffervarioustrustandwealthmanagementservices.
OnMay16,2011,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofWilmingtonTrust
Corporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,inastock-for-stock

transaction.WilmingtonTrustoperated55bankingofficesinDelawareandPennsylvaniaatthedateof

acquisition.TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhavebeenincludedin

theCompany™sfinancialresultssinceMay16,2011.WilmingtonTrustshareholdersreceived.051372shares

ofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrustcommonstock,resultinginM&T

issuingatotalof4,694,486commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$406million.
TheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhasbeenaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodof
accountingand,accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecorded

atestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$10.8billion,including

$6.4billionofloansandleases(includingapproximately$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4

billionofcommercialloansandleases,$680millionofresidentialrealestateloansand$1.1billionof

consumerloans).Liabilitiesassumedaggregated$10.0billion,including$8.9billionofdeposits.The

commonstockissuedinthetransactionadded$406milliontoM&T™scommonshareholders™equity.

ImmediatelypriortotheclosingoftheWilmingtonTrusttransaction,M&Tredeemedthe$330millionof

preferredstockissuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŒCapitalPurchase

ProgramoftheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,the

Companyrecorded$112millionofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Thecoredepositandother

intangibleassetsaregenerallybeingamortizedoverperiodsof5to7yearsusinganacceleratedmethod.

Therewasnogoodwillrecordedasaresultofthetransaction,however,inaccordancewithgenerally

acceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),anon-taxablegainof$65millionwasrealized,whichrepresented

theexcessofthefairvalueofassetsacquiredlessliabilitiesassumedoverconsiderationexchanged.The

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustaddedtoM&T™smarket-leadingpositionintheMid-Atlanticregionby

givingM&TaleadingdepositmarketshareinDelaware.
33OnNovember5,2010,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththe
FederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)toassumeallofthedeposits,exceptcertainbrokered
deposits,andacquirecertainassetsofKBank,basedinRandallstown,Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,

M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDICwherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedby

theFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.Thetransactionwasaccountedforusing

theacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumedwere

recordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredinthetransactiontotaled

approximately$556million,including$154millionofloansand$186millionincash,andliabilities

assumedaggregated$528million,including$491millionofdeposits.Therewasnogoodwillorother

intangibleassetsrecordedinconnectionwiththistransaction,however,inaccordancewithGAAP,M&T

Bankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$17million($28millionbeforetaxes).Thegain

reflectstheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloanlossesthatM&TBankobtained

fromtheFDIC.TheoperationsobtainedintheKBankacquisitiontransactiondidnothaveamaterial

impactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
OnAugust28,2009,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththeFDIC
toassumeallofthedepositsandacquirecertainassetsofBradfordBank(ﬁBradfordﬂ),basedinBaltimore,

Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDIC

wherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.

Thetransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assets

acquiredandliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assets

acquiredinthetransactiontotaledapproximately$469million,including$302millionofloans,and

liabilitiesassumedaggregated$440million,including$361millionofdeposits.Therewasnogoodwillor

otherintangibleassetsrecordedinconnectionwiththistransaction,however,inaccordancewithGAAP,

M&TBankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$18million($29millionbeforetaxes).Thegain

reflectstheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloanlossesthatM&TBankobtained

fromtheFDIC.TheoperationsobtainedintheBradfordtransactiondidnothaveamaterialimpactonthe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
OnMay23,2009,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofProvidentBankshares
Corporation(ﬁProvidentﬂ),abankholdingcompanybasedinBaltimore,Maryland,inastock-for-stock

transaction.ProvidentBank,Provident™sbankingsubsidiary,wasmergedintoM&TBankonthatdate.The

resultsofoperationsacquiredintheProvidenttransactionhavebeenincludedintheCompany™sfinancial

resultssinceMay23,2009.Providentcommonshareholdersreceived.171625sharesofM&Tcommonstock

inexchangeforeachshareofProvidentcommonstock,resultinginM&Tissuingatotalof5,838,308

commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$273million.Inaddition,basedonthemerger

agreement,outstandingandunexercisedoptionstopurchaseProvidentcommonstockwereconvertedinto

optionstopurchasethecommonstockofM&T.Thoseoptionshadanestimatedfairvalueofapproximately

$1million.Intotal,thepurchasepricewasapproximately$274millionbasedonthefairvalueonthe

acquisitiondateofM&TcommonstockexchangedandtheoptionstopurchaseM&Tcommonstock.

HoldersofProvident™spreferredstockwereissuedsharesofnewSeriesBandSeriesCPreferredStockof

M&Thavingsubstantiallyidenticalterms.Thatpreferredstockandwarrantstopurchasecommonstock

associatedwiththeSeriesCPreferredStockadded$162milliontoM&T™sshareholders™equity.TheSeriesB

PreferredStockhadapreferencevalueof$27millionandpaidnon-cumulativedividendsatarateof10%.

Inaccordancewiththeirterms,onApril1,2011,the26,500sharesoftheSeriesBPreferredStockconverted

into433,144sharesofM&Tcommonstock.TheSeriesCPreferredStockhasapreferencevalueof$152

million,payscumulativedividendsatarateof5%throughNovember2013and9%thereafter,andisheld

bytheU.S.TreasuryundertheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgram.
TheProvidenttransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,
accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecordedatestimatedfair

valueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaled$6.3billion,including$4.0billionofloansandleases

(includingapproximately$1.7billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4billionofconsumerloans,$700

millionofcommercialloansandleasesand$300millionofresidentialrealestateloans)and$1.0billionof

investmentsecurities.Liabilitiesassumedwere$5.9billion,including$5.1billionofdeposits.The

transactionadded$436milliontoM&T™sshareholders™equity,including$280millionofcommonequity

and$156millionofpreferredequity.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompanyrecorded$332

millionofgoodwilland$63millionofcoredepositintangible.Thecoredepositintangibleisbeing

amortizedoversevenyearsusinganacceleratedmethod.TheacquisitionofProvidentexpandedthe
34Company™spresenceintheMid-Atlanticarea,gavetheCompanythesecondlargestdepositsharein
Maryland,andtripledtheCompany™spresenceinVirginia.
Netacquisitionandintegration-relatedgainsandexpenses(includedhereinasmerger-related
expenses)associatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitionand,toamuchlesserextent,withthe

November2010KBankacquisitiontransactionincurredduring2011totaledtoanetgainof$13million

aftertax-effect,or$.10ofdilutedearningspercommonshare.Reflectedinthatamountarethe$65million

non-taxablegain($.52ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)ontheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionand$84

millionofexpenses($52millionaftertax-effect,or$.42ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)associated

withtheWilmingtonTrustandKBanktransactions.Netmerger-relatedexpensesincurredduring2010

totaledtoanetgainof$27million($16millionaftertax-effect,or$.14ofdilutedearningspercommon

share).Reflectedinthatamountarethe$28milliongain($17millionaftertax-effect,or$.14ofdiluted

earningspercommonshare)ontheKBanktransactionand$771thousand($469thousandaftertax-effect)

ofexpenses.Netmerger-relatedexpensesassociatedwiththeBradfordandProvidentacquisition

transactionsincurredduring2009totaled$60million($36millionaftertax-effect,or$.31ofdiluted

earningspercommonshare).Reflectedinthatamountarethe$29million($18millionaftertax-effect,or

$.15ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)gainontheBradfordtransactionand$89million($54million

aftertax-effect,or$.46ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)ofexpensesassociatedwiththeProvident

andBradfordtransactions.Theexpensesin2011,2010and2009relatedtosystemsconversionsandother

costsofintegratingandconformingacquiredoperationswithandintotheCompany.Theseexpenses

consistedlargelyofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththeconversionof

systemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandofficeconsolidations;costsrelatedto

terminationofexistingcontractualarrangementsforvariousservices;initialmarketingandpromotion

expensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktocustomers;severanceforformeremployees;incentive

compensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,suppliesandothercostsofcompletingthetransactionand

commencingoperationsinnewmarketsandoffices.
Theconditionofthedomesticandglobaleconomyoverthelastseveralyearshassignificantly
impactedthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andspecifically,thefinancialresultsoftheCompany.In

particular,highunemploymentlevelsandsignificantlydepressedresidentialrealestatevaluationshaveled

toincreasedloancharge-offsexperiencedbyfinancialinstitutionsthroughoutthattimeperiod.Sincethe

officialendoftherecessionintheUnitedStatessometimeinthelatterhalfof2009,therecoveryofthe

economyhasbeenveryslow.TheCompanyhasexperiencedloancharge-offsathigherthanhistoricallevels

since2008.Inaddition,manyfinancialinstitutionshavecontinuedtoexperienceunrealizedlossesrelatedto

investmentsecuritiesbackedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateduetoalackofliquidityinthe

financialmarketsandanticipatedcreditlosses.Manyfinancialinstitutions,includingtheCompany,have

takenchargesforthoseunrealizedlossesthatweredeemedtobeotherthantemporary.Alsonegatively

impactingthefinancialresultsoffinancialinstitutionsduring2011,includingtheCompany,hasbeena

seriesofnewregulations,resultinginhigherassessmentsbytheFDICandlowerfeeincome.
Pursuanttoitscapitalplan,M&Tundertookthefollowingactionsduringthesecondquarterof2011:
ŠRedeemed$370millionofitsSeriesAPreferredStockissuedpursuanttotheTroubledAssetRelief

ProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgramoftheU.S.Treasury;and
ŠIssued$500millionofperpetual6.875%non-cumulativepreferredstockinordertosupplement

Tier1Capital.
Severalothernoteworthyitemsarereflectedin2011™sfinancialresults,asfollows:
ŠA$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargewasrecordedduringthefourthquarter
relatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ).WhileBayview™sasset

managementoperationscontinuetogrowanditsbusinessofmanagingcapitalinthedistressedreal

estatemarketisperformingwell,thesmall-balancecommercialrealestatesecuritizationmarketthat

BLGpreviouslyoperatedincontinuestobestagnant.Reflectingthoseconditions,management

increaseditsestimateofthetimeframeoverwhichM&Tcouldreasonablyanticipaterecoveryofthe

previouslyrecordedinvestmentamountand,asaresult,concludedthattheinvestmentwasother-

than-temporarilyimpaired.Thatinvestmentwaswritten-downtoitsestimatedfairvalueof$115

million.Theimpairmentchargewasrecordedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂ
35ŠDuringDecember2011,M&Treceived$55millionofcashresultingfromthefullsettlementofa
lawsuitinitiatedbyM&Tin2008againstDeutscheBankSecurities,Inc.andseveralotherparties.

M&Tsoughtdamagesarisingfroma2007investmentincollateralizeddebtobligations(ﬁCDOsﬂ)

andallegedthatthequalityoftheinvestmentwasnotasrepresented.That$55millionisincludedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂ
ŠTheCompanymadea$30milliontax-deductiblecashcontributioninthefourthquartertoThe

M&TCharitableFoundation,aprivatecharitablefoundationthathassupportedthousandsof

not-for-profitorganizationstoimprovethequalityoflifethroughoutthecommunitiesM&Tserves.
AlliedIrishBanks(ﬁAIBﬂ)received26,700,000sharesofM&TcommonstockonApril1,2003asa
resultofM&T™sacquisitionofasubsidiaryofAIBonthatdate.Thosesharesofcommonstockownedby
AIBrepresented22.4%oftheissuedandoutstandingsharesofM&TcommonstockonSeptember30,2010.

InanefforttoraiseitscapitalpositiontomeetnewIrishgovernment-mandatedcapitalrequirements,AIB

completedthesaleofthe26,700,000sharesonNovember4,2010.Asaresult,theprovisionsofthe

AgreementandPlanofReorganizationbetweenM&TandAIBrelatedtoAIB™srightsasasubstantial

shareholderinthecorporategovernanceofM&Tbecameinoperativeasofthatdate.
RecentLegislativeDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(ﬁDodd-FrankActﬂ)wassignedinto

lawonJuly21,2010.Thatlawhasandwillcontinuetosignificantlychangethebankregulatorystructure

andaffectthelending,deposit,investment,tradingandoperatingactivitiesoffinancialinstitutionsandtheir

holdingcompanies,andthesystemofregulatoryoversightoftheCompany,includingthroughthecreation

oftheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil.TheDodd-FrankActrequiresvariousfederalagenciestoadopt

abroadrangeofnewimplementingrulesandregulations,andtopreparenumerousstudiesandreportsfor

Congress.TheDodd-FrankActcouldhaveamaterialadverseimpactonthefinancialservicesindustryasa

whole,aswellasonM&T™sbusiness,resultsofoperations,financialconditionandliquidity.
TheDodd-FrankActbroadensthebaseforFDICinsuranceassessments.Beginninginthesecond
quarterof2011,assessmentsarebasedonaverageconsolidatedtotalassetslessaverageTier1capitaland

certainallowabledeductionsofafinancialinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActalsopermanentlyincreasesthe

maximumamountofdepositinsuranceforbanks,savingsinstitutionsandcreditunionsto$250,000per

depositor,retroactivetoJanuary1,2009,andnoninterest-bearingtransactionaccountshaveunlimited

depositinsurancethroughDecember31,2013.
Thelegislationalsorequiresthatpubliclytradedcompaniesgiveshareholdersanon-bindingvoteon
executivecompensationandﬁgoldenparachuteﬂpayments,andauthorizestheSecuritiesandExchange

Commissiontopromulgaterulesthatwouldallowshareholderstonominatetheirowncandidatesusinga

company™sproxymaterials.TheDodd-FrankActalsodirectstheFederalReserveBoardtopromulgaterules

prohibitingexcessivecompensationpaidtobankholdingcompanyexecutives,regardlessofwhetherthe

companyispubliclytraded.
TheDodd-FrankActestablishedanewBureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionwithbroadpowers
tosuperviseandenforceconsumerprotectionlaws.TheBureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionhas

broadrule-makingauthorityforawiderangeofconsumerprotectionlawsthatapplytoallbanksand

savingsinstitutions,includingtheauthoritytoprohibitﬁunfair,deceptiveorabusiveﬂactsandpractices.The

BureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionhasexaminationandenforcementauthorityoverallbanksand

savingsinstitutionswithmorethan$10billioninassets.
Inaddition,theDodd-FrankAct,amongotherthings:
ŠWeakensthefederalpreemptionrulesthathavebeenapplicablefornationalbanksandgivesstate

attorneysgeneraltheabilitytoenforcefederalconsumerprotectionlaws;
ŠAmendstheElectronicFundTransferAct(ﬁEFTAﬂ)whichhasresultedin,amongotherthings,the

FederalReserveBoardissuingrulesaimedatlimitingdebit-cardinterchangefees;
ŠAppliesthesameleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsthatapplytoinsureddepository

institutionstomostbankholdingcompanieswhich,amongotherthings,will,afterathree-year

phase-inperiodwhichbeginsJanuary1,2013,removetrustpreferredsecuritiesasapermitted

componentofaholdingcompany™sTier1capital;
ŠProvidesforanincreaseintheFDICassessmentfordepositoryinstitutionswithassetsof$10billion

ormoreandincreasestheminimumreserveratioforthedepositinsurancefundfrom1.15%to

1.35%;36ŠImposescomprehensiveregulationoftheover-the-counterderivativesmarket,whichwouldinclude
certainprovisionsthatwouldeffectivelyprohibitinsureddepositoryinstitutionsfromconducting

certainderivativesbusinessesintheinstitutionitself;
ŠRepealsthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,therebypermitting

depositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts;
ŠProvidesmortgagereformprovisionsregardingacustomer™sabilitytorepay,restrictingvariable-rate

lendingbyrequiringtheabilitytorepaytobedeterminedforvariable-rateloansbyusingthe

maximumratethatwillapplyduringthefirstfiveyearsofavariable-rateloanterm,andmaking

moreloanssubjecttoprovisionsforhighercostloans,newdisclosures,andcertainother

revisions;and
ŠCreatestheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil,whichwillrecommendtotheFederalReserve

Boardincreasinglystrictrulesforcapital,leverage,liquidity,riskmanagementandother

requirementsascompaniesgrowinsizeandcomplexity.
Theenvironmentinwhichbankingorganizationswilloperateafterthefinancialcrisis,including
legislativeandregulatorychangesaffectingcapital,liquidity,supervision,permissibleactivities,corporate
governanceandcompensation,changesinfiscalpolicyandstepstoeliminategovernmentsupportfor

bankingorganizations,mayhavelong-termeffectsonthebusinessmodelandprofitabilityofbanking

organizations,thefullextentofwhichcannotnowbeforeseen.ManyaspectsoftheDodd-FrankActstill

remainsubjecttorulemakingandwilltakeeffectoverseveralyears,makingitdifficulttoanticipatethe

overallfinancialimpactonM&T,itscustomersorthefinancialindustrymoregenerally.Provisionsinthe

legislationthataffectdepositinsuranceassessments,paymentofinterestondemanddepositsand

interchangefeesdirectlyimpactthenetincomeoffinancialinstitutions.Provisionsinthelegislationthat

revoketheTier1capitaltreatmentoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandotherwiserequirerevisionstothecapital

requirementsofM&TandM&TBankcouldrequireM&TandM&TBanktofurtherseekothersourcesof

capitalinthefuture.Theimpactofnewrulesrelatingtooverdraftfeepracticesanddebit-cardinterchange

feesarediscussedhereinundertheheadingﬁOtherIncome.ﬂ
CriticalAccountingEstimates
TheCompany™saccountingpoliciesconformwithGAAPandaredescribedinnote1ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Inapplyingthoseaccountingpolicies,managementoftheCompanyisrequiredtoexercise

judgmentindeterminingmanyofthemethodologies,assumptionsandestimatestobeutilized.Certainof

thecriticalaccountingestimatesaremoredependentonsuchjudgmentandinsomecasesmaycontributeto

volatilityintheCompany™sreportedfinancialperformanceshouldtheassumptionsandestimatesused

changeovertimeduetochangesincircumstances.Someofthemoresignificantareasinwhichmanagement

oftheCompanyappliescriticalassumptionsandestimatesincludethefollowing:
ŠAllowanceforcreditlossesŠTheallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentstheamountthatin

management™sjudgmentappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolioas

ofthebalancesheetdate.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjusttheleveloftheallowance

asdeemednecessarybymanagement.Inestimatinglossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio,

assumptionsandjudgmentareappliedtomeasureamountsandtimingofexpectedfuturecash

flows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsusedtodeterminetheborrowers™abilitiestorepay

obligations.Historicallosstrendsarealsoconsidered,asareeconomicconditions,industrytrends,

portfoliotrendsandborrower-specificfinancialdata.Foracquiredloans,whichareinitiallyrecorded

atfairvaluewithnocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcredit

losses,theexcesscashflowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheirestimatedfairvalueisrecognizedas

interestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequentdecreasesintheexpectedprincipal

cashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditionstotheCompany™sallowancefor

creditlosses.Subsequentimprovementsinexpectedcashflowsresultfirstintherecoveryofany

applicableallowanceforcreditlossesandthenintherecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeover

theremaininglivesoftheloans.Changesinthecircumstancesconsideredwhendetermining

management™sestimatesandassumptionscouldresultinchangesinthoseestimatesand

assumptions,whichmayresultinadjustmentoftheallowanceor,inthecaseofacquiredloans,

increasesininterestincomeinfutureperiods.Adetaileddiscussionoffactsandcircumstances

consideredbymanagementindeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlossesisincludedhereinunder

theheadingﬁProvisionforCreditLossesﬂandinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
37ŠValuationmethodologiesŠManagementoftheCompanyappliesvariousvaluationmethodologies
toassetsandliabilitieswhichofteninvolveasignificantdegreeofjudgment,particularlywhenliquid

marketsdonotexistfortheparticularitemsbeingvalued.Quotedmarketpricesarereferredtowhen

estimatingfairvaluesforcertainassets,suchastradingassets,mostinvestmentsecurities,and

residentialrealestateloansheldforsaleandrelatedcommitments.However,forthoseitemsfor

whichanobservableliquidmarketdoesnotexist,managementutilizessignificantestimatesand

assumptionstovaluesuchitems.Examplesoftheseitemsincludeloans,privatelyissuedmortgage-

backedsecurities,deposits,borrowings,goodwill,coredepositandotherintangibleassets,andother

assetsandliabilitiesobtainedorassumedinbusinesscombinations;capitalizedservicingassets;

pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitobligations;valueascribedtostock-basedcompensation;

estimatedresidualvaluesofpropertyassociatedwithleases;andcertainderivativeandotherfinancial

instruments.Thesevaluationsrequiretheuseofvariousassumptions,including,amongothers,

discountrates,ratesofreturnonassets,repaymentrates,cashflows,defaultrates,costsofservicing

andliquidationvalues.Theuseofdifferentassumptionscouldproducesignificantlydifferentresults,

whichcouldhavematerialpositiveornegativeeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.In

additiontovaluation,theCompanymustassesswhetherthereareanydeclinesinvaluebelowthe

carryingvalueofassetsthatshouldbeconsideredotherthantemporaryorotherwiserequirean

adjustmentincarryingvalueandrecognitionofalossintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.

Examplesincludeinvestmentsecurities,otherinvestments,mortgageservicingrights,goodwill,core

depositandotherintangibleassets,amongothers.Specificassumptionsandestimatesutilizedby

managementarediscussedindetailhereininmanagement™sdiscussionandanalysisoffinancial

conditionandresultsofoperationsandinnotes1,3,4,7,8,11,12,18,19and20ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
ŠCommitments,contingenciesandoff-balancesheetarrangementsŠInformationregardingthe

Company™scommitmentsandcontingencies,includingguaranteesandcontingentliabilitiesarising

fromlitigation,andtheirpotentialeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperationsisincludedin

note21ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjectto

examinationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultin

challengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Management

believesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshavebeen

appropriate.Shouldtaxlawschangeorthetaxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™sassumptions

wereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.InformationregardingtheCompany™sincometaxesispresentedin

note13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Therecognitionorde-recognitionintheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialstatementsofassetsandliabilitiesheldbyso-calledvariableinterestentitiesis

subjecttotheinterpretationandapplicationofcomplexaccountingpronouncementsor

interpretationsthatrequiremanagementtoestimateandassesstheprobabilityoffinancialoutcomes

infutureperiodsandthedegreetowhichtheCompanycaninfluencethoseoutcomes.Information

relatingtotheCompany™sinvolvementinsuchentitiesandtheaccountingtreatmentaffordedeach

suchinvolvementisincludedinnote19ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Overview
NetincomefortheCompanyduring2011was$859millionor$6.35ofdilutedearningspercommonshare,

up17%and12%,respectively,from$736millionor$5.69ofdilutedearningspercommonsharein2010.

Basicearningspercommonshareincreased11%to$6.37in2011from$5.72in2010.Netincomein2009

totaled$380million,whiledilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$2.89and$2.90,respectively.

Theafter-taximpactofnetmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesassociatedwiththeacquisitiontransactions

previouslydescribedtotaledtoanetgainof$13million(netexpensesof$19millionpre-tax)or$.10of

basicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2011,comparedwithanetgainof$16million($27million

pre-tax)or$.14ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2010.Netmerger-relatedexpensesof

$36million($60millionpre-tax)or$.31ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharewereincurredin

2009.Expressedasarateofreturnonaverageassets,netincomein2011was1.16%,comparedwith1.08%

in2010and.56%in2009.Thereturnonaveragecommonshareholders™equitywas9.67%in2011,9.30%in

2010and5.07%in2009.
38ReflectedintheCompany™sfinancialresultsin2011weretheoperationsacquiredfromWilmington
TrustsincetheMay16,2011acquisitiondate.Theimprovedperformancein2011ascomparedwith2010
waslargelyattributabletohighernetinterestincome,lowercreditcostsandgainsfromthesaleof

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomeincreased5%to$2.42billionin2011from$2.29billionin
2010.Thatincreasewasattributabletohigheraverageearningassets,whichroseto$64.7billionin2011

from$59.7billionin2010.Partiallyoffsettingthehigherlevelofaverageearningassetswasan11basispoint

(hundredthsofonepercent)narrowingofthenetinterestmargin,ortaxable-equivalentnetinterestincome

dividedbyaverageearningassets,to3.73%in2011from3.84%in2010.Thehigheraverageearningassets

andthedeclineinthenetinterestmarginwereeachlargelyattributabletotheMay2011acquisitionof

WilmingtonTrust.Netinterestincomerecordedonataxable-equivalentbasisrose10%in2010from

$2.08billionin2009,reflectingawidernetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetsduring2010werelittle

changedfrom$59.6billionin2009.
Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$270millionin2011,27%lowerthan$368millionin2010.Net
charge-offsalsodeclined,to$265millionin2011from$346millionin2010.Netcharge-offsasapercentage

ofaverageloansandleasesoutstandingwere.47%in2011and.67%in2010.Whilethelevelsofthe

provisionandnetcharge-offssubsequentto2007havebeenhigherthanhistoricallevels,theCompany

experiencedsomeimprovementinthosecreditqualitymetricsduring2011.Nevertheless,generally

depressedrealestatevaluationsandtheirimpactontheCompany™sportfoliosofresidentialmortgageloans

andloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopershavecontinuedtocontributesignificantlytothe

levelofloanlosses.Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2010wasdown$236millionor39%from$604million

in2009.Netcharge-offsin2010declined$168millionfrom$514millionin2009.Netcharge-offsasa

percentageofaverageloansandleasesoutstandingwere1.01%in2009.Theprovisionineachyear

representstheresultofmanagement™sanalysisofthecompositionoftheloanandleaseportfolioandother

factors,includingconcernregardinguncertaintyabouteconomicconditions,bothnationallyandinmany

ofthemarketsservedbytheCompany,andtheimpactofsuchconditionsandprospectsontheabilitiesof

borrowerstorepayloans.
Noninterestincomerose43%to$1.58billionin2011from$1.11billionin2010.Gainsandlosseson
bankinvestmentsecuritiestotaledtoanetgainof$73millionin2011andtoanetlossof$84millionin

2010.TheCompanysoldinvestmentsecuritiesin2011,predominantlymortgage-backedsecurities

guaranteedbygovernmentsponsoredentities,resultinginpre-taxgainsof$150million.Suchsecurities

weresoldinthefirsthalfoftheyearinconnectionwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitioninorderto

managetheCompany™sbalancesheetcompositionandresultantcapitalratios.Excludinggainsandlosses

frombankinvestmentsecurities,theaforementioned$55millionCDOlitigationsettlementin2011,and

merger-relatedgainsof$65millionrecordedin2011associatedwiththeacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust

and$28millionin2010relatedtotheKBanktransaction,noninterestincomewas$1.39billionin2011,

comparedwith$1.16billionin2010.Thepredominantfactorinthatimprovementwashighertrustincome

resultingfromtheWilmingtonTrusttransaction.Alsocontributingtothehighernoninterestincomewere

increasedrevenuesfromletterofcreditandcredit-relatedfeesandmerchantdiscountandcreditcardfees.

Partiallyoffsettingthosefavorablefactorsweredeclinesinmortgagebankingrevenuesandservicecharges

ondepositaccounts.Excludinggainsandlossesfrombankinvestmentsecurities,the$28milliongain

recordedontheKBanktransactionin2010anda$29milliongainrecordedontheBradfordtransactionin

2009,noninterestincomewas$1.16billionineachof2010and2009.Declinesinrevenuesrelatedto

residentialmortgagebanking,brokerageservicesandtheCompany™strustbusinesswereoffsetbyhigher

servicechargesondepositaccounts,credit-relatedfeesandotherrevenuesfromoperations.Other-than-

temporaryimpairmentchargesoninvestmentsecuritieswere$77millionin2011,$86millionin2010and

$138millionin2009.
Noninterestexpensein2011totaled$2.48billion,up29%from$1.91billionin2010.During2009,
noninterestexpensetotaled$1.98billion.IncludedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredbyM&Ttobe

ﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature,consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof

$62million,$58millionand$64millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpenses

of$84millionin2011,$771,000in2010and$89millionin2009.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,

noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated$2.33billionin2011,$1.86billionin2010and$1.83billionin

2009.Theriseinsuchexpensesfrom2010to2011waslargelyattributabletotheimpactoftheoperations

obtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,the$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharge

relatedtoBLG,the$30millioncharitablecontributionmadein2011™sfourthquarterandhigherFDIC
39assessments.Theincreaseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesfrom2009to2010waslargelyattributableto
highercostsforprofessionalservicesandadvertisingin2010,anda$22millionreductionoftheallowance

forimpairmentofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingrightsin2009.FortheyearendedDecember31,

2010,therewasnochangetothatimpairmentallowance.Partiallyoffsettingthosefactorsweredeclinesin

expensesin2010relatedtoforeclosedpropertiesandFDICassessments.
Theefficiencyratioexpressestherelationshipofoperatingexpensestorevenues.TheCompany™s
efficiencyratio,ornoninterestoperatingexpenses(aspreviouslydefined)dividedbythesumoftaxable-

equivalentnetinterestincomeandnoninterestincome(exclusiveofgainsandlossesfrombankinvestment

securitiesandgainsonmergertransactions),was60.4%in2011,comparedwith53.7%in2010and56.5%

in2009.Excludingthe$79millionimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™sinvestmentinBLG,the$55million

litigationsettlementandthe$30millioncharitablecontributioninthefourthquarterof2011,theefficiency

ratiofor2011wouldhavebeen58.4%.Thecalculationsoftheefficiencyratioarepresentedintable2.
Table1
EARNINGSSUMMARY
Dollarsinmillions
Increase(Decrease)(a)
CompoundGrowthRate
5Years
2006to2011
2010to2011
2009to2010
Amount%Amount%20112010200920082007$64.12$6.8ŠInterestincome(b)
...........................$2,817.92,753.82,747.03,299.53,565.6(3)%
(60.0)(13)(207.1)(31)Interestexpense
.............................402.3462.3669.41,337.81,694.6(23)
124.15213.910Netinterestincome(b)
........................2,415.62,291.52,077.61,961.71,871.06
(98.0)(27)(236.0)(39)Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.................270.0368.0604.0412.0192.028
156.7Š53.6ŠGain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities(c)
......73.2(83.5)(137.1)(147.8)(126.1)Š
318.2276.41Otherincome
...............................1,509.81,191.61,185.21,086.71,059.18
Less:......................................204.320(2.2)ŠSalariesandemployeebenefits
...............1,204.0999.71,001.9957.1908.37
359.039(63.6)(6)Otherexpense
............................1,274.1915.1978.7769.9719.313
133.712575.7106Incomebeforeincometaxes
...................1,250.51,116.8541.1761.6984.4Š
Less:......................................1.982.210Taxable-equivalentadjustment(b)
............25.924.021.821.820.86
8.52217.2156Incometaxes
.............................365.1356.6139.4183.9309.3(1)
$123.317$356.394Netincome
.................................$
859.5736.2379.9555.9654.3Š%
(a)Changeswerecalculatedfromunroundedamounts.
(b)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentrepresentsadditional
incometaxesthatwouldbedueifallinterestincomeweresubjecttoincometaxes.Thisadjustment,whichis
relatedtointerestreceivedonqualifiedmunicipalsecurities,industrialrevenuefinancingsandpreferredequity

securities,isbasedonacompositeincometaxrateofapproximately39%.
(c)Includesother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,ifany.
SupplementalReportingofNon-GAAPResultsofOperations
Asaresultofbusinesscombinationsandotheracquisitions,theCompanyhadintangibleassetsconsistingof

goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetstotaling$3.7billionateachofDecember31,2011,

2010and2009.Includedinsuchintangibleassetswasgoodwillof$3.5billionateachofthosedates.

Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets,aftertaxeffect,totaled$38million,$35millionand

$39millionduring2011,2010and2009,respectively.
M&Tconsistentlyprovidessupplementalreportingofitsresultsonaﬁnetoperatingﬂorﬁtangibleﬂ
basis,fromwhichM&Texcludestheafter-taxeffectofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
40assets(andtherelatedgoodwill,coredepositintangibleandotherintangibleassetbalances,netofapplicable
deferredtaxamounts)andgainsandexpensesassociatedwithmergingacquiredoperationsintothe

Company,sincesuchitemsareconsideredbymanagementtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature.Althoughﬁnet

operatingincomeﬂasdefinedbyM&TisnotaGAAPmeasure,M&T™smanagementbelievesthatthis

informationhelpsinvestorsunderstandtheeffectofacquisitionactivityinreportedresults.
Netoperatingincometotaled$884millionin2011,up17%from$755millionin2010.Dilutednet
operatingearningspercommonsharein2011rose12%to$6.55from$5.84in2010.Netoperatingincome

anddilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$455millionand$3.54,respectively,during

2009.Expressedasarateofreturnonaveragetangibleassets,netoperatingincomewas1.26%in2011,
comparedwith1.17%in2010and.71%in2009.Netoperatingreturnonaveragetangiblecommonequity

was17.96%in2011,comparedwith18.95%and13.42%in2010and2009,respectively.
ReconciliationsofGAAPamountswithcorrespondingnon-GAAPamountsarepresentedintable2.
41Table2
RECONCILIATIONOFGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
201120102009Incomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
.........................................................................$
859,479$736,161$379,891
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
...................................37,55035,26539,006
Merger-relatedgain(a)
................................................................(64,930)(16,730)(17,684)
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
............................................................52,15446954,163
Netoperatingincome
..............................................................$
884,253$755,165$455,376
Earningspercommonshare

Dilutedearningspercommonshare
.....................................................$
6.35$5.69$2.89
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
....................................30.29.34
Merger-relatedgain(a)
................................................................(.52)(.14)(.15)
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
.............................................................42Š.46
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
........................................$
6.55$5.84$3.54
Otherexpense

Otherexpense
.......................................................................$2,478,068$1,914,837$1,980,563
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
.....................................(61,617)(58,103)(64,255)
Merger-relatedexpenses
..............................................................(83,687)(771)(89,157)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
.......................................................$2,332,764$1,855,963$1,827,151
Merger-relatedexpenses

Salariesandemployeebenefits
..........................................................$
16,131$7$10,030
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................................41244
2,975Printing,postageandsupplies
..........................................................2,663743,677
Othercostsofoperations
..............................................................64,48164672,475
Total............................................................................$
83,687$771$89,157
Efficiencyratio

Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
...............................................$2,332,764$1,855,963$1,827,151
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
...................................................2,415,6322,291,5492,077,577
Otherincome
.......................................................................1,582,9121,108,1001,048,106
Less:Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.................................................150,1872,7701,165
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
................................................(77,035)(86,281)(138,297)
Merger-relatedgain
................................................................64,93027,53929,109
Denominator.......................................................................$3,860,462$3,455,621$3,233,706
Efficiencyratio
......................................................................60.43%53.71%56.50%
Balancesheetdata

Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
.......................................................................$
73,977$68,380$67,472
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,393)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(168)(153)(191)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................432933
Averagetangibleassets
..............................................................$
70,327$64,731$63,921
Averagecommonequity

Averagetotalequity
..................................................................$
9,004$8,103$7,282
Preferredstock
......................................................................(797)(736)(666)
Averagecommonequity
............................................................8,2077,3676,616
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,393)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(168)(153)(191)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................432933
Averagetangiblecommonequity
.....................................................$
4,557$3,718$3,065
Atendofyear

Totalassets

Totalassets
.........................................................................$
77,924$68,021$68,880
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(176)(126)(182)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................512335
Totaltangibleassets
................................................................$
74,274$64,393$65,208
Totalcommonequity

Totalequity
........................................................................$
9,271$8,358$7,753
Preferredstock
......................................................................(865)(741)(730)
UndeclareddividendsŠpreferredstock
.................................................(3)(6)(6)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredpreferreddividends
.....................................8,4037,6117,017
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(176)(126)(182)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................512335
Totaltangiblecommonequity
........................................................$
4,753$3,983$3,345
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
42NetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivities
Netinterestincomeexpressedonataxable-equivalentbasistotaled$2.42billionin2011,5%higherthan

$2.29billionin2010.Thatimprovementresultedfromgrowthinaverageearningassetspartiallyoffsetbya

narrowingoftheCompany™snetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetsaggregated$64.7billionin2011,up

8%from$59.7billionin2010predominantlytheresultofearningassetsobtainedintheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrust,whichattheMay16,2011acquisitiondatetotaledapproximately$9.6billion.Thenet

interestmarginnarrowed11basispointsfrom3.84%in2010to3.73%in2011,partiallyattributabletothe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition.Alsocontributingtothatnarrowingweresignificantlyhighercashbalances

ondepositwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYork.
Averageloansandleasesrose10%to$56.2billionin2011from$51.3billionin2010,due
predominantlytoloansobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.LoansassociatedwithWilmington

Trusttotaled$6.4billionontheacquisitiondate,consistingofapproximately$1.4billionofcommercial

loansandleases,$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$680millionofresidentialrealestateloansand

$1.1billionofconsumerloans.Includingtheimpactoftheacquiredloanbalances,commercialloansand

leasesaveraged$14.7billionin2011,up$1.6billionor12%from$13.1billionin2010.Averagecommercial

realestateloansincreased11%to$22.9billionin2011from$20.7billionin2010.Residentialrealestate

loansaveraged$6.8billionin2011,up18%from$5.7billionin2010.Inadditiontotheimpactof

WilmingtonTrust,higheramountsofloansoriginatedtobeheldinportfoliocontributedtothatincrease.

Averageconsumerloansin2011were$11.9billion,up1%from$11.7billionin2010.Largelyoffsettingthe

impactofconsumerloansobtainedintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionweredeclinesinaverage

automobileandhomeequityloans.
Reflectinga35basispointwideningofthenetinterestmargin,taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
rose10%to$2.29billionin2010from$2.08billionin2009.TheCompany™snetinterestmarginincreased

to3.84%in2010from3.49%in2009,predominantlytheresultoflowerinterestratespaidondepositsand

borrowings.Averageearningassetswere$59.7billionin2010,upslightlyfrom$59.6billionin2009.As

comparedwith2009,aslightincreaseinaverageoutstandingbalancesofloansandleaseswasoffsetbya

declineinaverageoutstandingbalancesofinvestmentsecurities.
Averageloansandleasesof$51.3billionin2010wereup1%from$51.0billionin2009.Thefull-year
impactoftheloansobtainedintheProvidentandBradfordacquisitiontransactionswasoffsetbysluggish

borrowerdemandforcommercialloans.Averagecommercialloansandleasesdeclined6%to$13.1billion

in2010from$13.9billionin2009.Commercialrealestateloansaveraged$20.7billionin2010,up3%from

$20.1billionin2009.Averageresidentialrealestateloansincreased8%to$5.7billionin2010from

$5.3billionin2009,largelyduetotheimpactofadoptingthenewaccountingrulesonJanuary1,2010that

requiredtheCompanytoincludeinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatementsone-to-fourfamilyresidential

mortgageloansthatwereincludedinnon-recoursesecuritizationtransactionsusingqualifiedspecial-

purposetrusts.TheeffectofthatconsolidationasofJanuary1,2010wastoincreaseresidentialrealestate

loansby$424million,decreasetheamortizedcostofavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesby$360million

(fairvalueof$355millionasofJanuary1,2010),andincreaseborrowingsby$65million.TheCompany™s

consumerloanportfolioaveraged$11.7billionineachof2010and2009.
43Table3
AVERAGEBALANCESHEETSANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTRATES
20112010200920082007AverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRate(Averagebalanceinmillions;interestinthousands)
AssetsEarningassets

Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount(a)
Commercial,financial,etc.
.......................................$14,655$564,7873.85%$13,092$521,7473.99%13,855524,6093.79%13,802723,8515.24%12,177871,7437.16%
RealestateŠcommercial
........................................22,9011,051,7724.5920,714974,0474.7020,085894,6914.4518,4281,072,1785.8215,7481,157,1567.35
RealestateŠconsumer
.........................................6,778334,4214.935,746303,2625.285,297288,4745.455,465329,5746.036,015384,1016.39
Consumer....................................................11,865592,3864.9911,745613,4795.2211,722636,0745.4311,150716,6786.4310,190757,8767.44
Totalloansandleases,net
......................................56,1992,543,3664.5351,2972,412,5354.7050,9592,343,8484.6048,8452,842,2815.8244,1303,170,8767.19
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
...................................1,1952,934.2510288.095034.07101091.0793003.36
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities
....................180189.11221446.2052129.25109
2,0711.9143223,8355.52
Tradingaccount
..................................................94
1,4111.5094789.8487640.74791,5461.95627441.20
Investmentsecurities(b)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................................4,165155,3393.734,483191,6774.283,805182,1634.793,740181,0984.842,274100,6114.42
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......................244
13,7045.6126615,1075.6722113,1435.941369,2436.791198,6197.23
Other........................................................2,655101,0203.803,269133,1764.074,377207,0694.735,097263,1045.164,925260,6615.29
Totalinvestmentsecurities
.....................................7,064270,0633.828,018339,9604.248,403402,3754.798,973453,4455.057,318369,8915.05
Totalearningassets
...........................................64,7322,817,9634.3559,7322,753,8184.6159,5512,747,0264.6158,0163,299,4525.6951,9513,565,6466.86
Allowanceforcreditlosses
.........................................(916)(906)(864)(791)(677)
Cashandduefrombanks
..........................................1,2071,0991,1211,2241,271
Otherassets
.....................................................8,9548,4557,6646,6836,000
Totalassets
..................................................$73,977$68,38067,47265,13258,545
LiabilitiesandShareholders™Equity

Interest-bearingliabilities

Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
................................................$753
1,145.15$601850.145431,122.215022,894.584614,6381.01
Savingsdeposits
................................................30,40384,314.2826,19085,226.3322,832112,550.4918,170248,0831.3714,985250,3131.67
Timedeposits
..................................................6,48071,0141.106,583100,2411.528,782206,2202.359,583330,3893.4510,597496,3784.68
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................................779962.12953
1,368.141,6652,391.143,98684,4832.124,185207,9904.97
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
..................................38,415157,435.4134,327187,685.5533,822322,283.9532,241665,8492.0730,228959,3193.17
Short-termborrowings
............................................827
1,030.121,8543,006.162,9117,129.246,086142,6272.345,386274,0795.09
Long-termborrowings
............................................6,959243,8663.509,169271,5782.9611,092340,0373.0711,605529,3194.568,428461,1785.47
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
..................................46,201402,331.8745,350462,2691.0247,825669,4491.4049,9321,337,7952.6844,0421,694,5763.85
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.......................................17,27313,70911,0547,6747,400
Otherliabilities
..................................................1,4991,2181,3111,089856
Totalliabilities
.................................................64,97360,27760,19058,69552,298
Shareholders™equity
..............................................9,0048,1037,2826,4376,247
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
............................$73,977$68,38067,47265,13258,545
Netinterestspread
................................................3.483.593.213.013.01
Contributionofinterest-freefunds
...................................25.25.28.37.59
Netinterestincome/marginonearningassets
..........................$2,415,6323.73%$2,291,5493.84%2,077,5773.49%1,961,6573.38%1,871,0703.60%
(a)Includesnonaccrualloans.
(b)Includesavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesatamortizedcost.
44Table4summarizesaverageloansandleasesoutstandingin2011andpercentagechangesinthe
majorcomponentsoftheportfoliooverthepasttwoyears.
Table4
AVERAGELOANSANDLEASES
(Netofunearneddiscount)
PercentIncrease
(Decrease)from
20112010to2011
2009to2010
(Inmillions)
Commercial,financial,etc.
..................................$14,65512%(6)%
RealestateŠcommercial
...................................22,901113
RealestateŠconsumer
.....................................6,778188
ConsumerHomeequitylines
........................................5,94028
Homeequityloans
.......................................721
(17)(13)
Automobile.............................................2,731(3)(11)
Other..................................................2,473113
Totalconsumer
........................................11,8651Š
Total..................................................$56,19910%1%
Commercialloansandleases,excludingloanssecuredbyrealestate,totaled$15.7billionat
December31,2011,representing26%oftotalloansandleases.Table5presentsinformationoncommercial
loansandleasesasofDecember31,2011relatingtogeographicarea,size,borrowerindustryandwhether

theloansaresecuredbycollateralorunsecured.Ofthe$15.7billionofcommercialloansandleases

outstandingattheendof2011,approximately$13.5billion,or86%,weresecured,while42%,26%and21%

weregrantedtobusinessesinNewYorkState,PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea(whichincludes

Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia),respectively.TheCompany

providesfinancingforleasestocommercialcustomers,primarilyforequipment.Commercialleases

includedintotalcommercialloansandleasesatDecember31,2011aggregated$1.3billion,ofwhich48%

weresecuredbycollaterallocatedinNewYorkState,15%weresecuredbycollateralintheMid-Atlantic

areaandanother11%weresecuredbycollateralinPennsylvania.
45Table5
COMMERCIALLOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
(ExcludesLoansSecuredbyRealEstate)
December31,2011
NewYork
PennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentofTotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Manufacturing...................$1,321$859$385$283$2,84818%
Services.........................887465872267
2,49116
Automobiledealerships
............854604261449
2,16814
Wholesale.......................702406351102
1,56110
Realestateinvestors
...............65913915780
1,0357
Contruction.....................325373214379496
Financialandinsurance
...........3472312681029486
Transportation,communications,
utilities.......................2082781562358775
Healthservices
...................383100248928235
Publicadministration
.............26118786395734
Retail..........................19318679354933
Agriculture,forestry,fishing,
mining,etc.
...................8810336182451
Other..........................353155203137245
Total...........................$6,581$4,086$3,316$1,752$15,735100%
Percentoftotal
...................42%26%21%11%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstanding
Secured.........................80%77%77%68%77%
Unsecured......................1019171314
Leases..........................1046199
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysize
ofloan
Lessthan$1million
...............29%21%30%13%26%
$1millionto$5million
............2528253026
$5millionto$10million
...........1716152217
$10millionto$20million
..........1219112415
$20millionto$30million
..........871258
$30millionto$50million
..........76366
Greaterthan$50million
...........234Š2
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
46Internationalloansincludedincommercialloansandleasestotaled$122millionand$105millionat
December31,2011and2010,respectively.Includedinsuchloanswere$108millionand$61million,
respectively,ofloansatM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,Canada,whichopenedinthesecond

quarterof2010.TheCompanyparticipatesintheinsuranceandguaranteeprogramsoftheExport-Import

BankoftheUnitedStates.TheseprogramsprovideU.S.governmentrepaymentcoverageof90%to100%

onloanssupportingforeignborrowers™purchasesofU.S.goodsandservicesandcoverageof90%onloans

toU.S.exportersofgoodsandservicestoforeignbuyers.Theloansgenerallyrangeupto$10million.The

outstandingbalancesofloansunderthoseprogramsatDecember31,2011and2010were$9millionand

$32million,respectively.
Loanssecuredbyrealestate,includingoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit
whichtheCompanyclassifiesasconsumerloans,representedapproximately65%oftheloanandlease

portfolioduringeachof2011and2010,comparedwith62%in2009.AtDecember31,2011,theCompany

heldapproximately$24.4billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$7.9billionofconsumerrealestateloans

securedbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialproperties(including$210millionofloansheldforsale)and

$6.7billionofoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,comparedwith$21.2billion,

$5.9billionand$6.6billion,respectively,atDecember31,2010.Includedintotalloansandleaseswere

amountsduefrombuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestateaggregating$1.6billionand$1.4billion

atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,ofwhich$1.5billionand$1.35billion,respectively,were

classifiedascommercialrealestateloans.
CommercialrealestateloansoriginatedbytheCompanyincludefixed-rateinstrumentswith
monthlypaymentsandaballoonpaymentoftheremainingunpaidprincipalatmaturity,inmanycasesfive

yearsafterorigination.Inmanycases,forborrowersingoodstandingthetermsofsuchloansmaybe

extendedbythecustomerforanadditionalfiveyearsatthethencurrentmarketrateofinterest.The

Companyalsooriginatesfixed-ratecommercialrealestateloanswithmaturitiesofgreaterthanfiveyears,

generallyhavingoriginalmaturitytermsofapproximatelyseventotenyears,andadjustable-rate

commercialrealestateloans.Excludingconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestors,adjustable-

ratecommercialrealestateloansrepresentedapproximately58%ofthecommercialrealestateloan

portfolioatthe2011year-end.Table6presentscommercialrealestateloansbygeographicarea,typeof

collateralandsizeoftheloansoutstandingatDecember31,2011.NewYorkCitymetropolitanarea

commercialrealestateloanstotaled$7.7billionatDecember31,2011.The$6.3billionofinvestor-owned

commercialrealestateloansintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareawerelargelysecuredbymultifamily

residentialproperties,retailspace,andofficespace.TheCompany™sexperiencehasbeenthatoffice,retail

andservice-relatedpropertiestendtodemonstratemorevolatilefluctuationsinvaluethrougheconomic

cyclesandchangingeconomicconditionsthandomultifamilyresidentialproperties.Approximately49%of

theaggregatedollaramountofNewYorkCity-arealoanswereforloanswithoutstandingbalancesof

$10millionorless,whileloansofmorethan$50millionmadeupapproximately9%ofthetotal.
47Table6
COMMERCIALREALESTATELOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2011
MetropolitanNewYork
CityOtherNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentof
Total(Dollarsinmillions)
Investor-ownedPermanentfinancebypropertytype
Retail..............................$2,067$481$384$952$487$4,37118%
Office..............................1,0606373005742092,78011

Apartments/Multifamily.................1,4763371782813062,57810

Hotel..............................5693192243432641,7197

Industrial/Warehouse...................1541571653511349614

Healthfacilities........................381476679383682

Other..............................248355473294392
Totalpermanent..................
5,6122,1131,3712,6531,46713,21654%
Construction/DevelopmentCommercialConstruction.......................3592382687831261,7748%

Land/Landdevelopment...............1792374227125152
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Construction.......................10413982261025432

Land/Landdevelopment...............4922182650629654
Totalconstruction/development.......6912966221,8863023,79716%
Totalinvestor-owned.......................6,3032,4091,9934,5391,76917,01370%
Owner-occupiedbyindustry(a)
Healthservices........................5874122113923141,9168%

Otherservices........................20630824658641,3506

Retail..............................117181204261688313

Manufacturing.......................100212191135276653

Realestateinvestors....................103134117176816112

Automobiledealerships.................79138164122755782

Wholesale...........................4755152168414632

Other..............................131197241386299844
Totalowner-occupied
..............1,3701,6371,5262,2266397,39830%
Totalcommercialrealestate...................$7,673$4,046$3,519$6,765$2,408$24,411100%
Percentoftotal............................31%17%14%28%10%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysizeofloan

Lessthan$1million........................6%26%23%19%7%15%

$1millionto$5million......................254136371932

$5millionto$10million.....................181616181517

$10millionto$30million....................311422192423

$30millionto$50million....................11335117

$50millionto$100million
...................8ŠŠ2175
Greaterthan$100million
....................1ŠŠŠ71
Total...................................100%100%
100%100%100%100%
(a)Includes$354millionofconstructionloans.
48CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinotherpartsofNewYorkState,
PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareatendtohaveagreaterdiversityofcollateraltypesandincludea
significantamountoflendingtocustomerswhousethemortgagedpropertyintheirtradeorbusiness

(owner-occupied).Approximately83%oftheaggregatedollaramountofcommercialrealestateloansin

NewYorkStatesecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofthemetropolitanNewYorkCityareawereforloans

withoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.Oftheoutstandingbalancesofcommercialrealestateloans

inPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,approximately75%and74%,respectively,wereforloanswith

outstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.
CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofPennsylvania,theMid-Atlantic
area,NewYorkStateandareasofstatesneighboringNewYorkconsideredtobepartoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanarea,comprised10%oftotalcommercialrealestateloansasofDecember31,2011.
Commercialrealestateconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestorspresentedintable6
totaled$3.8billionatDecember31,2011,or6%oftotalloansandleases.Approximately95%ofthose

constructionloanshadadjustableinterestrates.Includedinsuchloansatthe2011year-endwere$1.5

billionofloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties.Informationaboutthecreditperformance

oftheCompany™sloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesisincludedherein

undertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂTheremainderofthecommercialrealestateconstruction

loanportfoliowascomprisedofloansmadeforvariouspurposes,includingtheconstructionofoffice

buildings,multifamilyresidentialhousing,retailspaceandothercommercialdevelopment.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,acommercialrealestatelendingsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
participatesintheFannieMaeDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)program,pursuanttowhich

commercialrealestateloansareoriginatedinaccordancewithtermsandconditionsspecifiedbyFannie

Maeandsold.Underthisprogram,loansaresoldwithpartialcreditrecoursetoM&TRealtyCapital

Corporation.Theamountofrecourseisgenerallylimitedtoone-thirdofanycreditlossincurredbythe

purchaseronanindividualloan,althoughinsomecasestherecourseamountislessthanone-thirdofthe

outstandingprincipalbalance.AtDecember31,2011and2010,approximately$1.8billionand$1.6billion,

respectively,ofcommercialrealestateloanbalancesservicedforothershadbeensoldwithrecourse.There

havebeennomateriallossesincurredasaresultofthoserecoursearrangements.Commercialrealestate

loansheldforsaleatDecember31,2011and2010aggregated$161millionand$204million,respectively.At

December31,2011and2010,commercialrealestateloansservicedforotherinvestorsbytheCompanywere

$9.0billionand$8.1billion,respectively.ThoseservicedloansarenotincludedintheCompany™s

consolidatedbalancesheet.
Realestateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertieswere$7.9billionat
December31,2011,includingapproximately38%securedbypropertieslocatedinNewYorkState,14%

securedbypropertieslocatedinPennsylvaniaand25%securedbypropertieslocatedintheMid-Atlantic

area.AtDecember31,2011,$210millionofresidentialrealestateloanswereheldforsale,comparedwith

$341millionatDecember31,2010.TheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aloansheldforinvestmentat

December31,2011totaled$542million,comparedwith$648millionatDecember31,2010.Alt-Aloans

representresidentialrealestateloansthatatoriginationtypicallyincludedsomeformoflimitedborrower

documentationrequirementsascomparedwithmoretraditionalresidentialrealestateloans.Loansinthe

Company™sAlt-AportfoliowereoriginatedbytheCompanypriorto2008.Loanstoindividualstofinance

theconstructionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiestotaled$43millionatDecember31,2011,or

approximately.1%oftotalloansandleases,comparedwith$71millionor.1%atDecember31,2010.

InformationaboutthecreditperformanceoftheCompany™sAlt-Amortgageloansandotherresidential

mortgageloansisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂ
Consumerloanscomprisedapproximately21%and23%oftheaverageloanportfolioduring2011
and2010,respectively.Thetwolargestcomponentsoftheconsumerloanportfolioareoutstandingbalances

ofhomeequitylinesofcreditandautomobileloans.Averagebalancesofhomeequitylinesofcredit

outstandingrepresentedapproximately11%ofaverageloansoutstandingineachof2011and2010.

Automobileloansrepresentedapproximately5%oftheCompany™saverageloanportfolioduringeachof

2011and2010.Nootherconsumerloanproductrepresentedmorethan4%ofaverageloansoutstandingin

2011.Approximately41%ofhomeequitylinesofcreditoutstandingatDecember31,2011weresecuredby

propertiesinNewYorkState,and20%and37%weresecuredbypropertiesinPennsylvaniaandthe

Mid-Atlanticarea,respectively.Averageoutstandingbalancesonhomeequitylinesofcreditwere

approximately$5.9billionand$5.8billionin2011and2010,respectively.AtDecember31,2011,35%,26%

and19%oftheautomobileloanportfolioweretocustomersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvaniaand
49theMid-Atlanticarea,respectively.Althoughautomobileloanshavegenerallybeenoriginatedthrough
dealers,allapplicationssubmittedthroughdealersaresubjecttotheCompany™snormalunderwritingand

loanapprovalprocedures.Outstandingautomobileloanbalanceswere$2.7billionateachofDecember31,

2011and2010.
Table7presentsthecompositionoftheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioattheendof2011,including
outstandingbalancestobusinessesandconsumersinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,theMid-Atlanticareaand

otherstates.Approximately43%oftotalloansa
ndleasesatDecember31,2011weretoNewYorkState
customers,while19%and26%weretoPennsylvaniaandMid-Atlanticareacustomers,respectively.
Table7
LOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2011
PercentofDollarsOutstanding
OutstandingsNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOther(Inmillions)
Realestate
Residential.............................$
7,92338%14%25%23%
Commercial...........................24,41148(a)142810
Totalrealestate
.......................32,33446%14%27%13%
Commercial,financial,etc.
..................14,41041%27%22%10%
ConsumerHomeequitylines
.......................6,02441%20%37%2%
Homeequityloans
......................6581333495
Automobile............................2,72035261920
Othersecuredorguaranteed
..............2,08028151740
Otherunsecured
........................5453924334
Totalconsumer
.......................12,02736%21%30%13%
Totalloans
........................58,77143%19%26%12%
Commercialleases
........................1,32548%11%15%26%
Totalloansandleases
................$60,09643%19%26%12%
(a)Includesloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinneighboringstatesgenerallyconsideredtobewithincommuting
distanceofNewYorkCity.
Balancesofinvestmentsecuritiesaveraged$7.1billionin2011,comparedwith$8.0billionand
$8.4billionin2010and2009,respectively.The12%declineinsuchbalancesfrom2010to2011reflectsthe
impactofsalesofinvestmentsecuritiesin2011,aswellasmaturitiesandpaydownsofmortgage-backed

securities.During2011theCompanyrealizedgainsof$150millionfromthesaleofinvestmentsecurities

availableforsale,predominantlyresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbytheFederalNational

MortgageAssociation(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ)andtheFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ),

collateralizeddebtobligationsandtrustpreferredsecur
ities,havinganamortizedcostof$1.7billion.Partially
offsetingthosefactorswerepurchasesofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbytheFannieMae,

FreddieMacandtheGovernmentNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁGinnieMaeﬂ)aggregatingapproximately

$3.3billion.TheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionaddedapproximately$510milliontotheinvestmentsecurities

portfolioontheMay16,2011acquisitiondate.Thedecreaseinaverageinvestmentsecuritiesfrom2009to2010

largelyreflectsmaturitiesandpaydownsofmortgage-back
edsecurities,maturitiesoffederalagencynotesandthe
impactofadoptingthenewaccountingrulesonJanuary1,2010asalreadynoted,partiallyoffsetbypurchasesof

mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyFannieMaeandFreddieMacduringthefirsthalfof2010aggregating

approximately$1.3billion.
50Theinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioislargelycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesand
collateralizedmortgageobligations(ﬁCMOsﬂ),debtsecuritiesissuedbymunicipalities,trustpreferred
securitiesissuedbycertainfinancialinstitutions,andshorter-termU.S.Treasuryandfederalagencynotes.

Whenpurchasinginvestmentsecurities,theCompanyconsidersitsoverallinterest-rateriskprofileaswellas

theadequacyofexpectedreturnsrelativetorisksassumed,includingprepayments.Inmanagingthe

investmentsecuritiesportfolio,theCompanyoccasionallysellsinvestmentsecuritiesasaresultofchangesin

interestratesandspreads,actualoranticipatedprepayments,creditriskassociatedwithaparticularsecurity,

orasaresultofrestructuringitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioinconnectionwithabusinesscombination.
TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesfordeclinesinvaluebelowamortizedcost
thatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂAsnotedabove,other-than-temporaryimpairment

chargesof$77million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2011relatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOs

backedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans.Other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof

$86million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2010.Approximately$68millionofthosechargesrelatedto

privatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans,$6millionrelatedtoCDOs

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsand$12millionrelatedtoAmerican

DepositaryShares(ﬁADSsﬂ)ofAIB.TheAIBADSswereobtainedinthe2003acquisitionofasubsidiaryof

AIBandwereheldtosatisfyoptionstopurchasesuchsharesgrantedbythatsubsidiarytocertainemployees.

FactorscontributingtotheimpairmentchargeincludedmountingcreditandotherlossesincurredbyAIB,

theissuanceofAIBcommonstockinlieuofdividendpaymentsoncertainpreferredstockissuancesheldby

theIrishgovernmentresultinginsignificantdilutionofAIBcommonshareholders,andpublic

announcementsbyIrishgovernmentofficialssuggestingthatincreasedgovernmentsupport,whichcould

furtherdiluteAIBcommonshareholders,maybenecessary.Other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof

$138million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2009relatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOsandCDOs

heldintheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Specifically,$130millionofsuch

impairmentchargesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOsandCDOsbackedbyresidentialrealestateloansand

$8millionrelatedtoCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesoffinancialinstitutions.Pooreconomic

conditions,highunemploymentanddepressedrealestatevaluesaresignificantfactorscontributingtothe

recognitionoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtoCMOsandCDOs.Basedon

management™sassessmentoffuturecashflowsassociatedwithindividualinvestmentsecurities,asof

December31,2011,theCompanyconcludedthattheremainingdeclinesassociatedwiththerestofthe

investmentsecuritiesportfolioweretemporaryinnature.Afurtherdiscussionoffairvaluesofinvestment

securitiesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapital.ﬂAdditionalinformationabouttheinvestment

securitiesportfolioisincludedinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherearningassetsincludeinterest-earningdepositsattheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkand
otherbanks,tradingaccountassets,federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities.Thoseother

earningassetsintheaggregateaveraged$1.5billionin2011,$417millionin2010and$189millionin2009.

Interest-bearingdepositsatbanksaveraged$1.2billionin2011,upfrom$102millionand$50millionin

2010and2009,respectively.Thesignificantlyhigherbalancesin2011wereduetoincreaseddepositsatthe

FederalReserveBankofNewYorkresultinglargelyfromtheMay16,2011WilmingtonTrustacquisition.

Alsoreflectedinotherearningassetswerepurchasesofinvestmentsecuritiesunderagreementstoresell,

whichaveraged$168million,$214millionand$41millionduring2011,2010and2009,respectively.The

higherlevelofresellagreementsin2011and2010ascomparedwith2009wasdue,inpart,totheneedto

fulfillcollateralrequirementsassociatedwithcertainmunicipaldeposits.Agreementstoresellsecurities,of

whichtherewerenoneoutstandingatthe2011,2010and2009year-ends,areaccountedforsimilarto

collateralizedloans,withchangesinmarketvalueofthecollateralmonitoredbytheCompanytoensure

sufficientcoverage.TheamountsofinvestmentsecuritiesandotherearningassetsheldbytheCompanyare

influencedbysuchfactorsasdemandforloans,whichgenerallyyieldmorethaninvestmentsecuritiesand

otherearningassets,ongoingrepayments,thelevelsofdeposits,andmanagementofbalancesheetsizeand

resultingcapitalratios.
ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits.During2010andprior
years,theCompanyconsiderednoninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearingtransactionaccounts,savings

depositsanddomestictimedepositsunder$100,000ascoredeposits.AprovisionoftheDodd-FrankAct

permanentlyincreasedthemaximumamountofFDICdepositinsuranceforfinancialinstitutionsto

$250,000perdepositor.Thatmaximumwas$100,000perdepositoruntil2009,whenitwasraisedto

$250,000temporarilythrough2013.Asaresultofthepermanentlyincreaseddepositinsurancecoverage,

effectiveDecember31,2010theCompanyconsiderstimedepositsof$250,000orlessascoredeposits.
51TheCompany™sbranchnetworkisitsprincipalsourceofcoredeposits,whichgenerallycarrylowerinterest
ratesthanwholesalefundsofcomparablematurities.Certificatesofdepositof$250,000orlessgeneratedon

anationwidebasisbyWilmingtonTrust,N.A.werealsoincludedincoredeposits.Averagecoredeposits

totaled$52.0billionin2011,upfrom$43.6billionin2010and$39.1billionin2009.Thechangeinthe

Company™sdefinitionofcoredepositstoincludetimedepositsfrom$100,000to$250,000increasedaverage

coredepositsbyapproximately$964millionin2011.TheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionadded

approximately$6.6billionofcoredepositsonMay16,2011.TheKBankacquisitiontransactionadded

$491millionofcoredepositsonNovember5,2010,whileacquisitiontransactionsin2009added

$3.8billionofcoredepositsontherespectiveacquisitiondates.AveragecoredepositsofWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.were$630millionin2011,$217millionin2010and$337millionin2009.Excludingtheimpactofthe

December31,2010changeintheCompany™sdefinitionofcoredepositsanddepositsobtainedin

acquisitiontransactions,thegrowthincoredepositsfrom2009to2010andfrom2010to2011wasdue,in

part,tothelackofattractivealternativeinvestmentsavailabletotheCompany™scustomersresultingfrom

lowerinterestratesandfromtheeconomicenvironmentintheU.S.Thelowinterestrateenvironmenthas

resultedinashiftincustomersavingstrends,asaveragetimedepositshavecontinuedtodecline,while

averagenoninterest-bearingdepositsandsavingsdepositshaveincreased.Fundingprovidedbycore

depositsrepresented80%ofaverageearningassetsin2011,comparedwith73%and66%in2010and2009,

respectively.Table8summarizesaveragecoredepositsin2011andpercentagechangesinthecomponents

ofsuchdepositsoverthepasttwoyears.Coredepositsaggregated$56.4billionand$45.9billionat

December31,2011and2010,respectively.
Table8
AVERAGECOREDEPOSITS
PercentageIncrease
(Decrease)from
20112010to2011
2009to2010
(Inmillions)
NOWaccounts
............................................$72625%10%
Savingsdeposits
...........................................29,1341613
Timedeposits(a)
..........................................4,87714(21)
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.................................17,2732624
Total..................................................$52,01019%12%
(a)Averagetimedepositsconsideredcoredepositsin2011representedtimedepositsof$250,000orless.In2010and
2009,averagetimedepositsconsideredcoredepositswerethosewithbalanceslessthan$100,000.
AdditionalfundingsourcesfortheCompanyincludeddomestictimedepositsover$250,000,
depositsassociatedwiththeCompany™sCaymanIslandsbranchoffice,andbrokereddeposits.Domestic
timedepositsover$250,000,excludingbrokeredcertificatesofdeposit,averaged$491millionin2011.

Similartimedepositsover$100,000averaged$1.7billionand$2.6billionin2010and2009,respectively.

CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsaveraged$779millionin2011,$1.0billionin2010and$1.7billionin2009.

Averagebrokeredtimedepositstotaled$1.1billionin2011,comparedwith$642millionin2010and

$822millionin2009,andatDecember31,2011and2010totaled$1.0billionand$485million,respectively.

BrokeredtimedepositsobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrusttotaled$1.4billionasofMay16,

2011.TheCompanyalsohadbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccounts,whichinthe

aggregateaveraged$1.3billion,$1.2billionand$757millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thelevels

ofbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccountsreflectthedemandforsuchdeposits,

largelyresultingfromcontinueduncertaineconomicmarketsandthedesireofbrokeragefirmstoearn

reasonableyieldswhileensuringthatcustomerdepositsarefullyinsured.CaymanIslandsbranchdeposits

andbrokereddepositshavebeenusedbytheCompanyasalternativestoshort-termborrowings.Additional

amountsofCaymanIslandsbranchdepositsorbrokereddepositsmaybeaddedinthefuturedependingon

marketconditions,includingdemandbycustomersandotherinvestorsforthosedeposits,andthecostof

fundsavailablefromalternativesourcesatthetime.
52TheCompanyalsousesborrowingsfrombanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHomeLoan
Banks,theFederalReserveBankandothersassourcesoffunding.Short-termborrowingsaveraged
$827millionin2011,$1.9billionin2010and$2.9billionin2009.Includedinshort-termborrowingswere

unsecuredfederalfundsborrowings,whichgenerallymatureonthenextbusinessday,thataveraged

$593million,$1.7billionand$1.8billionin2011,2010and2009,respectively.Overnightfederalfunds

borrowingsrepresentedthelargestcomponentofaverageshort-termborrowingsandwereobtainedfroma

widevarietyofbanksandotherfinancialinstitutions.Overnightfederalfundsborrowingstotaled

$590millionatDecember31,2011and$826millionatDecember31,2010.Averageshort-termborrowings

during2011,2010and2009included$30million,$31millionand$688million,respectively,ofborrowings

fromtheFederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork,theFHLBofAtlantaandtheFHLBof

Pittsburgh.Alsoincludedinaverageshort-termborrowingsin2009weresecuredborrowingswiththe

FederalReservethroughtheirTermAuctionFacility(ﬁTAFﬂ).BorrowingsundertheTAFaveraged

$268millionduring2009.TherewerenooutstandingborrowingsundertheTAFatDecember31,2009or

later.Theneedforshort-termborrowingsfromtheFHLBsandtheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkhas

diminishedwiththecontinuedgrowthintheCompany™scoredeposits.
Long-termborrowingsaveraged$7.0billionin2011,$9.2billionin2010and$11.1billionin2009.
Includedinaveragelong-termborrowingswereamountsborrowedfromFHLBsof$1.9billionin2011,

$4.2billionin2010and$6.1billionin2009,andsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$2.0billionin2011,$1.8

billionin2010and$1.9billionin2009.Subordinatedcapitalnotesassumedinconnectionwiththe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitiontotaled$450millionatMay16,2011.TheCompanyhasutilizedinterestrate

swapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertaincomponentsoflong-termdebt.Asof

December31,2011,swapagreementswereusedtohedgeapproximately$900millionoffixedrate

subordinatednotes.Furtherinformationoninterestrateswapagreementsisprovidedinnote18ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.Juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiesthatwere

includedinaveragelong-termborrowingswere$1.2billionineachof2011and2010and$1.1billionin

2009.Additionalinformationregardingjuniorsubordinateddebentures,aswellasinformationregarding

contractualmaturitiesoflong-termborrowings,isprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Also

includedinlong-termborrowingswereagreementstorepurchasesecurities,whichaveraged$1.5billion

during2011and$1.6billionduring2010and2009.Theagreements,whichwereenteredintodueto

favorableratesavailable,havevariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesof

theunderlyingsecuritiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.
ChangesinthecompositionoftheCompany™searningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,as
discussedherein,aswellaschangesininterestratesandspreads,canimpactnetinterestincome.Netinterest

spread,orthedifferencebetweenthetaxable-equivalen
tyieldonearningassetsandtheratepaidoninterest-
bearingliabilities,was3.48%in2011,comparedwith3.59%in2010and3.21%in2009.Theyieldonthe

Company™searningassetsdecreased26basispointsto4.35%in2011from4.61%in2010,whiletheratepaid

oninterest-bearingliabilitiesdeclined15basispointsto.87%in2011from1.02%in2010.Theresulting11

basispointnarrowinginspreadin2011ascomparedwith2010waspartiallyattributabletotheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrust,whichincludedsignificantlyhigherearningbalancesonlower-yieldingdepositswiththe

FederalReserveBankofNewYork.Theyieldonearningassetsduring2010wasunchangedfrom2009,while

theratepaidoninterest-bearingliabilitiesdecreased38basispointsfrom1.40%in2009.Theimprovementin

spreadin2010ascomparedwith2009wasduepredominantlytoloweraverageratespaidondeposits.Those

lowerratesreflectedtheimpactofthesluggisheconomyandtheFederalReserve™smonetarypoliciesonboth

short-termandlong-terminterestrates.Inaddition
,theFederalOpenMarketCommitteenotedinJanuary

2012thatitanticipatesthateconomicconditions,includinglowratesofresourceutilizationandasubdued

outlookforinflationoverthemediumrun,arelikelytowarrantexceptionallylowlevelsforthefederalfunds

rateatleastthroughlate-2014.AtDecember31,2011and2010,theFederalReserve™stargetrangeforthe

overnightfederalfundsratewas0%to.25%.
Netinterest-freefundsconsistlargelyofnoninterest-bearingdemanddepositsandshareholders™
equity,partiallyoffsetbybankownedlifeinsuranceandnon-earningassets,includinggoodwillandcore

depositandotherintangibleassets.Netinterest-freefundsaveraged$18.5billionin2011,comparedwith

$14.4billionin2010and$11.7billionin2009.Thesignificantincreasesinaveragenetinterest-freefundsin

2011and2010werelargelytheresultofhigherbalancesofnoninterest-bearingdeposits,whichaveraged

$17.3billionin2011,$13.7billionin2010and$11.1billionin2009.InconnectionwiththeWilmington

Trustacquisition,theCompanyaddednoninterest-bearingdepositstotaling$2.0billionattheacquisition

date.InconnectionwiththeProvidentandBradfordtransactions,theCompanyaddednoninterest-bearing
53depositstotaling$946millionattherespective2009acquisitiondates.Goodwillandcoredepositandother
intangibleassetsaveraged$3.7billionineachof2011and2010,and$3.6billionin2009.Coredepositand

otherintangibleassetsaddedfromtheWilmingtonTrustacquisitionwere$112milliononMay16,2011.

Thecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlifeinsuranceaveraged$1.5billionineachof2011and2010,and

$1.4billionin2009.Increasesinthecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlifeinsurancearenotincludedin

interestincome,butratherarerecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂThecontributionofnet

interest-freefundstonetinterestmarginwas.25%ineachof2011and2010,and.28%in2009.Thedecline

inthecontributiontonetinterestmarginascribedtonetinterest-freefundsin2010ascomparedwith2009

resultedlargelyfromtheimpactoflowerinterestratesoninterest-bearingliabilitiesusedtovaluesuch

contribution.Reflectingthechangestothenetinterestspreadandthecontributionofnetinterest-freefundsas
describedherein,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwas3.73%in2011,comparedwith3.84%in2010and

3.49%in2009.Futurechangesinmarketinterestratesorspreads,aswellaschangesinthecompositionof

theCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesthatresultinreductionsin

spreads,couldadverselyimpacttheCompany™snetinterestincomeandnetinterestmargin.
Managementassessesthepotentialimpactoffuturechangesininterestratesandspreadsby
projectingnetinterestincomeunderseveralinterestratescenarios.Inmanaginginterestraterisk,the

Companyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertain

portionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities.Periodicsettlementamounts

arisingfromtheseagreementsaregenerallyreflectedineithertheyieldsearnedonassetsortheratespaidon

interest-bearingliabilities.Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterest

rateriskmanagementpurposeswas$900millionateachofDecember31,2011and2010.Undertheterms

ofthoseswapagreements,theCompanyreceivedpaymentsbasedontheoutstandingnotionalamountof

theagreementsatfixedratesandmadepaymentsatvariablerates.Thoseswapagreementsweredesignated

asfairvaluehedgesofcertainfixedratelong-termborrowings.Therewerenointerestrateswapagreements

designatedascashflowhedgesatthoserespectivedates.
Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvalueofthederivative(theinterestrateswapagreement)andchangesin
thefairvalueofthehedgeditemarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalue

oftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,

unlikeinafairvaluehedge,theeffectiveportionofthederivative™sgainorlossisinitiallyreportedasa

componentofothercomprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedintoearningswhentheforecasted

transactionaffectsearnings.Theineffectiveportionofthegainorlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfrom

operationsﬂimmediately.Theamountsofhedgeineffectivenessrecognizedin2011,2010and2009werenot

materialtotheCompany™sresultsofoperations.Theestimatedaggregatefairvalueofinterestrateswap

agreementsdesignatedasfairvaluehedgesrepresentedgainsofapproximately$147millionatDecember31,

2011and$97millionatDecember31,2010.Thefairvaluesofsuchswapagreementsweresubstantially

offsetbychangesinthefairvaluesofthehedgeditems.Thechangesinthefairvaluesoftheinterestrate

swapagreementsandthehedgeditemsprimarilyresultfromtheeffectsofchanginginterestratesand

spreads.TheCompany™screditexposureasofDecember31,2011withrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueof

interestrateswapagreementsusedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthrough

masternettingarrangementswithtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartyaswell

ascounterpartypostingsof$69millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Additionalinformationaboutswap

agreementsandtheitemsbeinghedgedisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theaverage

notionalamountsofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes,

therelatedeffectonnetinterestincomeandmargin,andtheweighted-averageinterestratespaidorreceived

onthoseswapagreementsarepresentedintable9.
54Table9
INTERESTRATESWAPAGREEMENTS
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)(Dollarsinthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Interestincome
.......................$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%
Interestexpense
......................(37,709)(.08)(41,885)(.09)(38,208)(.08)
Netinterestincome/margin
.............$
37,709.06%$41,885.07%$38,208.07%
Averagenotionalamount
.................$900,000$1,012,786$1,079,625
Ratereceived(b)
........................6.07%6.27%6.32%
Ratepaid(b)
...........................1.88%2.14%2.78%
(a)Computedasapercentageofaverageearningassetsorinterest-bearingliabilities.
(b)Weighted-averageratepaidorreceivedoninterestrateswapagreementsineffectduringyear.
ProvisionforCreditLosses
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentappropriately

reflectslossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjustthe

leveloftheallowanceasdeemednecessarybymanagement.Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$270million

in2011,comparedwith$368millionin2010and$604millionin2009.Netloancharge-offsaggregated

$265millionin2011,$346millionin2010and$514millionin2009.Netloancharge-offsasapercentageof

averageloansoutstandingwere.47%in2011,comparedwith.67%in2010and1.01%in2009.Whilethe

Companyhasexperiencedimprovementinitscreditqualitymetricsthepasttwoyears,thelevelsofthe

provisionsubsequentto2007havebeenhigherthanhistoricallevels,reflectingapronounceddownturnin

theU.S.economyandsignificantdeteriorationintheresidentialrealestatemarketthatbeganinearly-2007.

Generallydecliningrealestatevaluationsandhigherthannormallevelsofdelinquenciesandcharge-offs

havesignificantlyaffectedthequalityoftheCompany™sresidentialrealestate-relatedloanportfolios.

Specifically,theCompany™sAlt-Aresidentialrealestateloanportfolioanditsresidentialrealestatebuilder

anddeveloperloanportfolioexperiencedthemajorityofthecreditproblemsrelatedtotheturmoilinthe

residentialrealestatemarketplaceinrecentyears.TheCompanyalsoexperiencedhigherlevelsof

commercialandconsumerloancharge-offsoverthepastthreeyearsdueto,amongotherthings,higher

unemploymentlevelsandtherecessionaryeconomy.AsummaryoftheCompany™sloancharge-offs,

provisionandallowanceforcreditlossesispresentedintable10andinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.55Table10
LOANCHARGE-OFFS,PROVISIONANDALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSES
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinthousands)
Allowanceforcreditlossesbeginning
balance..............................$902,941$878,022$787,904$759,439$649,948
Charge-offsduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......55,02191,650180,119102,09232,206
RealestateŠconstruction
..............63,52986,603127,728105,9403,830
RealestateŠmortgage
.................81,691108,50095,10973,48523,552
Consumer...........................109,246125,593153,506139,13886,710
Totalcharge-offs
....................309,487412,346556,462420,655146,298
Recoveriesduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......10,22426,6217,9998,5878,366
RealestateŠconstruction
..............5,9304,9752,623369Š
RealestateŠmortgage
.................10,44410,9546,9174,0691,934
Consumer...........................18,23823,96325,04124,62022,243
Totalrecoveries
.....................44,83666,51342,58037,64532,543
Netcharge-offs
.........................264,651345,833513,882383,010113,755
Provisionforcreditlosses
.................270,000368,000604,000412,000192,000
Allowanceforcreditlossesacquiredduring
theyear
..............................ŠŠŠŠ32,668Allowancerelatedtoloanssoldor
securitized...........................ŠŠŠ
(525)(1,422)
Consolidationofloansecuritizationtrusts...Š2,752ŠŠŠ
Allowanceforcreditlossesendingbalance...$908,290$902,941$878,022$787,904$759,439
Netcharge-offsasapercentof:
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............98.02%93.98%85.08%92.96%59.25%
Averageloansandleases,netofunearned
discount............................47%.67%1.01%.78%.26%
Allowanceforcreditlossesasapercentof
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount,
atyear-end
...........................1.51%1.74%1.69%1.61%1.58%
Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfairvalue
withnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueofthe
acquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscountingthosecash

flowsatthen-currentinterestrates.Theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheestimatedfairvalueis

beingrecognizedasinterestincomeoverthelivesoftheloans.Thedifferencebetweencontractuallyrequired

paymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedatacquisitionreflectsestimatedfuturecredit

lossesandothercontractuallyrequiredpaymentsthattheCompanydoesnotexpecttocollect.TheCompany

regularlyevaluatesthereasonablenessofitscashflowprojections.Anydecreasestotheexpectedcashflows

requiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowanceforcreditlossesandcouldleadtocharge-

offsofacquiredloanbalances.Anysignificantincreasesinexpectedcashflowsresultinadditionalinterestincome

toberecognizedoverthethen-remaininglivesoftheloans.Thecarryingamountofloansobtainedin

acquisitionssubsequentto2008was$8.2billionand$3.3billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
Nonaccrualloanstotaled$1.10billionor1.83%ofoutstandingloansandleasesatDecember31,2011,
comparedwith$1.14billionor2.19%atDecember
31,2010and$1.26billionor2.42%atDecember31,2009.
Additionstononaccrualloansduring2011weremorethanoffsetbytheimpactonsuchloansfrompayments

receivedandcharge-offs.Thelargestrelationshipthatwasaddedtononaccrualloansin2011wasa$20million
56loantoabuilderanddeveloperofresidentialrealestatepropertiesintheMid-Atlanticarea.Thedeclinein
nonaccrualloansattheendof2010ascomparedwithDecember31,2009waslargelyattributabletotheimpactof

charge-offs,individuallysignificantpaymentsmadein2010byaborrowerthatoperatesretirementcommunities

andbyaborrowerthatisaconsumerfinanceandcreditinsurancecompany,andthetransfertorealestateand

otherforeclosedassetsof$98millionofcollateralrelatedtoacommercialrealestateloanthatwasplacedin

nonaccrualstatusduringthefourthquarterof2009.Thosereductionswerepartiallyoffsetbyadditionalloans

beingtransferredtononaccrualstatus.Inparticular,inthefourthquarterof2010suchtransfersincludedan

$80millionrelationshipwitharesidentialbuilderanddeveloperand$66millionofcommercialconstruction

loanstoanowner/operatorofretirementandassistedlivingfacilities.Thecontinuingsoftnessintheresidential

realestatemarketplacehasresultedindepressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsofdelinquencies,bothforloans

toconsumersandloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.ConditionsintheU.S.economyhave

resultedingenerallyhigherlevelsofnonaccrualloansthanhistoricallyexperiencedbytheCompany.
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(excludingacquiredloans)were$288millionor.48%of
totalloansandleasesatDecember31,2011,comparedwith$251millionor.48%atDecember31,2010and

$205millionor.40%atDecember31,2009.Thoseloansincludedloansguaranteedbygovernment-related

entitiesof$253million,$207millionand$193millionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.

Suchguaranteedloansincludedone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansservicedbytheCompanythat

wererepurchasedtoreduceservicingcosts,includingarequirementtoadvanceprincipalandinterest

paymentsthathadnotbeenreceivedfromindividualmortgagors.Despitetheloansbeingpurchasedbythe

Company,theinsuranceorguaranteebytheapplicablegovernment-relatedentityremainsinforce.The

outstandingprincipalbalancesoftherepurchasedloansarefullyguaranteedbygovernment-relatedentities

andtotaled$241millionatDecember31,2011,$191millionatDecember31,2010and$176millionat

December31,2009.Asummaryofnonperformingassetsandcertainpastdue,renegotiatedandimpaired

loandataandcreditqualityratiosispresentedintable11.
Table11
NONPERFORMINGASSETANDPASTDUE,RENEGOTIATEDANDIMPAIREDLOANDATA
December31
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinthousands)
Nonaccrualloans
.............................$1,
097,581$1,139,740$1,255,552$755,397$431,282
Realestateandotherforeclosedassets..............
156,592220,04994,60499,61740,175
Totalnonperformingassets......................$1,
254,173$1,359,789$1,350,156$855,014$471,457
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a).........$
287,876$250,705$205,172$158,991$77,319
Governmentguaranteedloansincludedintotalsabove:
Nonaccrualloans
...........................$40,529$39,883$37,658$32,506$19,125
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore..........
252,503207,243193,495114,18372,705
Renegotiatedloans............................$
214,379$233,342$212,548$91,575$15,884
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysormore(b)..$163,738$91,022$55,638$Š$Š
Purchasedimpairedloans(c):
Outstandingcustomerbalance.................$1,
267,762$219,477$172,772ŠŠ
Carryingamount...........................
653,36297,01988,170ŠŠ
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netof
unearneddiscount..........................1.83%2.19%2.42%1.54%.90%
Nonperformingassetstototalnetloansandleasesand
realestateandotherforeclosedassets............2.08%2.60%2.59%1.74%.98%
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a)tototal
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount.........48%.48%.40%.32%.16%
(a)Excludesacquiredloans.Predominantlyresidentialmortgageloans.
(b)Acquiredaccruingloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotinclude
purchasedimpairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(c)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandrecordedatfairvalue.
57Purchasedimpairedloansareloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008thatas
oftheacquisitiondatewerespecificallyidentifiedasdisplayingsignsofcreditdeteriorationandforwhich
theCompanydidnotexpecttocollectalloutstandingprincipalandcontractuallyrequiredinterest

payments.Thoseloanswereimpairedatthedateofacquisition,wererecordedatestimatedfairvalueand

weregenerallydelinquentinpayments,but,inaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycontinuestoaccrue

interestincomeonsuchloansbasedontheestimatedexpectedcashflowsassociatedwiththeloans.The

carryingamountofsuchloanswas$653millionatDecember31,2011,orapproximately1%oftotalloans.

Ofthatamount,$604millionrelatedtotheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysormoreareloansthatcouldnotbespecificallyidentifiedas
impairedasoftheacquisitiondate,butwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueasofsuchdate.Reflectingthe

impactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,suchloansincreasedto$164millionatDecember31,2011

from$91millionatDecember31,2010.
Inanefforttoassistborrowers,theCompanymodifiedthetermsofselectloanssecuredby
residentialrealestate,largelyfromtheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aloans.Includedinloansoutstandingat

December31,2011were$293millionofsuchmodifiedloans,ofwhich$133millionwereclassifiedas

nonaccrual.Theremainingmodifiedloanshavedemonstratedpaymentcapabilityconsistentwiththe

modifiedtermsand,accordingly,wereclassifiedasrenegotiatedloansandwereaccruinginterestatthe

2011year-end.Loanmodificationsincludedsuchactionsastheextensionofloanmaturitydates(generally

fromthirtytofortyyears)andtheloweringofinterestratesandmonthlypayments.Theobjectiveofthe

modificationswastoincreaseloanrepaymentsbycustomersandtherebyreducenetcharge-offs.In

accordancewithGAAP,themodifiedloansareincludedinimpairedloansforpurposesofdeterminingthe

leveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Modifiedresidentialrealestateloanstotaled$308millionat

December31,2010,ofwhich$117millionwereinnonaccrualstatus.Informationaboutmodificationsof

loansthatareconsideredtroubleddebtrestructuringsisincludedinnote4ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Residentialrealestateloansmodifiedunderspecifiedlossmitigationprogramsprescribedby
governmentguarantorshavenotbeenincludedinrenegotiatedloansbecausetheloanguaranteeremainsin

fullforceand,accordingly,M&Thasnotgrantedaconcessionwithrespecttotheultimatecollectionofthe

originalloanbalance.Suchloansaggregated$143millionand$106millionatDecember31,2011and

December31,2010,respectively.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialloansandleasestotaled$45millionin2011,$65millionin2010and
$172millionin2009.Thehigherlevelofcharge-offsexperiencedduring2009waslargelytheresultofafew

individuallysignificantcharge-offsinthatyear,includinga$45millionpartialcharge-offofanunsecured

loantoasinglecustomerinthecommercialrealestatesectoranda$42millionpartialcharge-offofa

relationshipwithanoperatorofretirementcommunities.Commercialloansandleasesinnonaccrualstatus

were$164millionatDecember31,2011,$173millionatDecember31,2010and$306millionat

December31,2009.ThedeclinefromDecember31,2009tothe2010year-endreflects$62millionof

paymentsrelatedtoasingleborrowerthatoperatesretirementcommunitiesandthepayoffsofa$37million

loantoaconsumerfinanceandcreditinsurancecompanyanda$36millionloantoaborrowerinthe

commercialrealestatesector.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialrealestateloansduring2011,2010and2009were$77million,
$118millionand$121million,respectively.Reflectedin2011™scharge-offswere$55millionofloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers,comparedwith$71millionin2010and$92millionin2009.

Commercialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualtotaled$559millionatDecember31,2011,compared

with$617millionatDecember31,2010and$587millionatDecember31,2009.Thedeclineincommercial

realestateloansinnonaccrualstatusfromthe2010year-endtoDecember31,2011resultedlargelyfroma$35

milliondecreaseinsuchloanstohomebuildersanddeve
lopers,charge-offsofothercommercialrealestate
loansclassifiedasnonaccrualandpaymentsreceived.Theincreaseinsuchloansin2010from2009reflectsa

$12millionriseinnonperformingloanstohomebuildersanddevelopersandtheadditionof$66millionof

constructionloanstoanowner/operatorofretirementandassistedlivingfacilities.Thosefactorswerepartially

offsetbytheremovalfromthiscategoryofaloancollateralizedbyrealestateinNewYorkCitythatwasinitially

placedonnonaccrualstatusinthefourthquarterof2009.Followinga$7millioncharge-off,theremaining

$98millionofthatloan™scarryingvaluewastransferredtoﬁRealEstateandOtherForeclosedAssetsﬂinthe

secondquarterof2010.AtDecember31,2011and2010,loanstoresidentialhomebuildersanddevelopers

classifiedasnonaccrualaggregated$281millionand$317million,respectively,comparedwith$305millionat

December31,2009.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offloanstoresidentialreal

estatebuildersanddevelopersasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2011ispresentedintable12.
58Table12
RESIDENTIALBUILDERANDDEVELOPERLOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2011
YearEnded
December31,2011
NonaccrualNetCharge-offs(Recoveries)
OutstandingBalances(a)BalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentofAverage
OutstandingBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
NewYork
........................$
201,317$22,33011.09%$1,286.53%
Pennsylvania......................293,68487,91729.9313,0964.24
Mid-Atlantic......................913,400161,82417.7135,6833.97
Other............................183,33825,27513.785,1702.49
Total............................$1,591,739$297,34618.68%$55,2353.34%
(a)Includesapproximately$84millionofloansnotsecuredbyrealestate,ofwhichapproximately$16millionarein
nonaccrualstatus.
Residentialrealestateloanschargedoff,netofrecoveries,were$52millionin2011,$61millionin
2010and$92millionin2009.Nonaccrualresidentialrealestateloansattheendof2011totaled
$278million,comparedwith$268millionand$276millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.

Depressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsofdelinquencieshavecontributedtothehigherthanhistorical

levelsofresidentialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualatthethreemostrecentyear-endsandtothe

elevatedlevelsofcharge-offs,largelyintheCompany™sAlt-Aportfolio.Netcharge-offsofAlt-Aloanswere

$32millionin2011,$34millionin2010and$52millionin2009.NonaccrualAlt-Aloansaggregated

$105millionatDecember31,2011,comparedwith$106millionand$112millionatDecember31,2010

and2009,respectively.Residentialrealestateloanspastdue90daysormoreandaccruinginterest

(excludingacquiredloans)totaled$250million,$192millionand$178millionatDecember31,2011,2010

and2009,respectively.Asubstantialportionofsuchamountsrelatedtoguaranteedloansrepurchasedfrom

government-relatedentities.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offresidentialreal

estateloansasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2011ispresentedintable13.
Netcharge-offsofconsumerloansduring2011were$91million,representing.77%ofaverage
consumerloansandleasesoutstanding,comparedwith$102millionor.87%in2010and$129millionor

1.10%in2009.Netcharge-offsofautomobileloanswere$22millionduring2011,$32millionduring2010

and$56millionduring2009.Netcharge-offsofrecreationalvehicleloanswere$21million,$23millionand

$25millionduring2011,2010and2009,respectively,andofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditsecured

byone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertieswere$33millionduring2011,$31millionduring2010and$39

millionduring2009.Nonaccrualconsumerloanswere$97millionatDecember31,2011,comparedwith

$80millionand$86millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Includedinnonaccrualconsumer

loansandleasesatthe2011,2010and2009year-endswere:automobileloansof$27million,$32million

and$39million,respectively;recreationalvehicleloansof$13million,$12millionand$15million;and

outstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,includingjuniorlienAlt-Aloans,of

$47million,$33millionand$30million,respectively.Consumerloanspastdue90daysormoreand

accruinginteresttotaled$5millionatDecember31,2011,and$4millionateachofDecember31,2010and

December31,2009.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offhomeequityloansand

linesofcreditasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2011ispresentedintable13.Asnotedinthetable,

ingeneral,netcharge-offsasapercentageofaverageloansforjuniorlienportfoliosarehigherthanthosefor

firstlienportfolios.
59Table13
SELECTEDRESIDENTIALREALESTATE-RELATEDLOANDATA
YearEnded
December31,2011
December31,2011
NetCharge-offs
NonaccrualPercentof
AverageOutstanding
Balances
Outstanding
Balances
Balances
Percentof
Outstanding
Balances
Balances
(Dollarsinthousands)
Residentialmortgages
NewYork.................................................$2,
961,622$48,6631.64%$2,775.11%
Pennsylvania...............................................1,
069,11120,1091.881,891.21
Mid-Atlantic...............................................1,
847,15435,9371.954,513.31
Other....................................................1,
478,97464,2954.358,932.72
Total.....................................................$7,
356,861$169,0042.30%$18,111.29%
Residentialconstructionloans
NewYork.................................................$6,945$1,09815.81%$1381.55%
Pennsylvania...............................................2,62936513.88(65)(2.13)

Mid-Atlantic...............................................13,262111.8415.09

Other....................................................20,3782,10310.321,5435.39
Total.....................................................$43,214$3,6778.51%$1,6312.86%
Alt-Afirstmortgages
NewYork.................................................$82,138$18,60322.65%$3,3133.76%

Pennsylvania...............................................19,0573,13916.476633.22

Mid-Atlantic...............................................95,16215,17615.955,1204.89

Other....................................................
326,73368,26120.8922,6796.32
Total.....................................................$
523,090$105,17920.11%$31,7755.55%
Alt-Ajuniorlien
NewYork.................................................$2,277$1.04%$42015.76%

Pennsylvania...............................................630365.71(1)(.10)

Mid-Atlantic...............................................3,9281223.1177318.49

Other....................................................12,4564053.252,48217.69
Total.....................................................$19,291$5642.92%$3,67417.07%
Firstlienhomeequityloans
NewYork.................................................$26,243$5662.16%$147.48%

Pennsylvania...............................................
145,3263,3932.33481.28
Mid-Atlantic...............................................
119,888472.39190.13
Other....................................................8829911.22ŠŠ
Total.....................................................$
292,339$4,5301.55%$818.24%
Firstlienhomeequitylines
NewYork.................................................$
896,727$2,819.31%$1,168.13%
Pennsylvania...............................................
601,3252,069.34344.06
Mid-Atlantic...............................................
542,3361,396.26299.05
Other....................................................17,3871,0255.90(1)(.01)
Total.....................................................$2,
057,775$7,309.36%$1,810.09%
Juniorlienhomeequityloans
NewYork.................................................$61,041$2,5214.13%$9281.21%

Pennsylvania...............................................70,8251,3681.93805.96

Mid-Atlantic...............................................
196,0921,223.62868.49
Other....................................................18,155128.71(
122)(.71)
Total.....................................................$
346,113$5,2401.51%$2,479.70%
Juniorlienhomeequitylines
NewYork.................................................$1,
559,300$21,2041.36%$13,471.84%
Pennsylvania...............................................
608,9892,136.352,358.40
Mid-Atlantic...............................................1,
683,2223,595.216,756.42
Other....................................................
114,3562,5722.252,1012.15
Total.....................................................$3,
965,867$29,507.74%$24,686.63%
60InformationaboutpastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2011isalsoincludedinnote4
ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Managementdeterminedtheallowanceforcreditlossesbyperformingongoingevaluationsofthe
loanandleaseportfolio,includingsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociatedwitheachloan
category,thefinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentinwhichborrowers

operate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,theexistenceofany

guaranteesorindemnifications.Managementevaluatedtheimpactofchangesininterestratesandoverall

economicconditionsontheabilityofborrowerstomeetrepaymentobligationswhenquantifyingthe

Company™sexposuretocreditlossesandtheallowanceforsuchlossesasofeachreportingdate.Factorsalso

consideredbymanagementwhenperformingitsassessment,inadditiontogeneraleconomicconditions

andtheotherfactorsdescribedabove,included,butwerenotlimitedto:(i)theimpactofdeclining

residentialrealestatevaluesintheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersand

developers;(ii)therepaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aresidential

mortgageloans;(iii)theconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;

(iv)theamountofcommercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideofthe

NewYorkCitymetropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedless

economicgrowthandvitalitythanthevastmajorityofotherregionsofthecountry;and(v)thesizeofthe

Company™sportfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernet

charge-offsasapercentageofloansoutstandingthanotherloantypes.Theleveloftheallowanceisadjusted

basedontheresultsofmanagement™sanalysis.
Managementcautiouslyandconservativelyevaluat
edtheallowanceforcreditlossesasofDecember31,
2011inlightof:(i)residentialrealestatevaluesandthelevelofdelinquenciesofresidentialrealestateloans;

(ii)economicconditionsinthemarketsservedbytheCompany;(iii)continuingweaknessinindustrial

employmentinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania;(iv)thesignificantsubjectivityinvolvedin

commercialrealestatevaluationsforpropertieslocatedinareaswithstagnantorlowgrowtheconomies;and

(v)theamountofloangrowthexperiencedbytheCo
mpany.Considerableconcernsexistabouteconomic
conditionsinbothnationalandinternationalmarkets;thelevelandvolatilityofenergyprices;aweakened

housingmarket;thetroubledstateoffinancialandcreditmarkets;FederalReservepositioningofmonetary

policy;highlevelsofunemployment;theimpactofeconomicconditionsonbusinesses™operationsandabilitiesto

repayloans;continuedstagnantpopulationgrowthintheupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions;

andcontinueduncertaintyaboutpossibleresponsestostateandlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficits.Althoughthe

U.S.economyexperiencedrecessionandweakeconomicconditionsduringrecentyears,theimpactofthose

conditionswasnotaspronouncedonborrowersinthetraditionallyslowergrowthregionsofupstateNewYork

andcentralPennsylvania.Approximately60%oftheCompany™sloansaretocustomersinNewYorkStateand

Pennsylvania.HomepricesinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniawererelativelystableinrecentyears,in

contrasttodeclinesinvaluesinmanyotherregionsofthecountry.Therefore,despitetheconditions,as

previouslydescribed,themostseverecreditissuesexperiencedbytheCompanyduringtherecentfinancial

downturnhavebeencenteredaroundresidentialrealestate,includingloanstobuildersanddevelopersof

residentialrealestate,inareasotherthanNewYorkStateandPennsylvania.Inresponse,theCompanyhas

expandeditsnormalloanreviewprocesstoconductdetailedreviewsofallloanstoresidentialrealestatebuilders

anddevelopersthatexceeded$2.5million.Thosecreditreviewsoftenresultedincommencementofintensified

collectionefforts,includingforeclosure.
TheCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialrealestate
loans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiateriskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectationsofdefaultfor

eachloan.Commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationofdefaultareassigned

oneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloangradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhendeterminingthe

allowanceforcreditlosses.Loanswithanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedasﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribed

ahigherlossfactorwhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticizedloansmaybeclassifiedas

ﬁnonaccrualﬂiftheCompanynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsofthe

loanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Loanofficerswiththesupportofloanreviewpersonnel

indifferentgeographiclocationsareresponsibletocontinuouslyreviewandreassignloangradestopassand

criticizedloansbasedontheirdetailedknowledgeofindividualborrowersandtheirjudgmentoftheimpacton

suchborrowersresultingfromchangingconditionsintheirrespectivegeographicregions.Onaquarterlybasis,

theCompany™scentralizedloanreviewdepartmentreviewsallcriticizedcommercialandcommercialrealestate

loansgreaterthan$1milliontodeterminetheappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhetherthe

loanshouldbereportedasaccruingornonaccruing.Forcriticizednonaccrualloans,additionalmeetingsareheld
61withloanofficersandtheirmanagers,workoutspecialistsandseniormanagementtodiscusseachofthe
relationships.Inanalyzingcriticizedloans,borrower-specificinformationisreviewed,includingoperatingresults,

futurecashflows,recentdevelopmentsandtheborrower™soutlook,andotherpertinentdata.Thetimingand

extentofpotentiallosses,consideringcollateralvaluationandotherfactors,andtheCompany™spotentialcourses

ofactionarereviewed.Totheextentthattheseloansarecollateral-dependent,theyareevaluatedbasedonthefair

valueoftheloan™scollateralasestimatedatornearthefinancialstatementdate.Asthequalityofaloan

deterioratestothepointofclassifyingtheloanasﬁcriticized,ﬂtheprocessofobtainingupdatedcollateral

valuationinformationisusuallyinitiated,unlessitisnotconsideredwarrantedgivenfactorssuchastherelative

sizeoftheloan,thecharacteristicsofthecollateralortheageofthelastvaluation.Inthosecaseswherecurrent

appraisalsmaynotyetbeavailable,priorappraisalsareutilizedwithadjustments,asdeemednecessary,for

estimatesofsubsequentdeclinesinvalueasdetermined
bylineofbusinessand/orloanworkoutpersonnelinthe
respectivegeographicregions.ThoseadjustmentsarereviewedandassessedforreasonablenessbytheCompany™s

loanreviewdepartment.Accordingly,forrealestatecollateralsecuringlargercommercialandcommercialreal

estateloans,estimatedcollateralvaluesarebasedoncurrentappraisalsandestimatesofvalue.Fornon-realestate

loans,collateralisassignedadiscountedestimatedliquidationvalueand,dependingonthenatureofthe

collateral,isverifiedthroughfieldexamsorotherproce
dures.Inassessingcollateral,realestateandnon-real

estatevaluesarereducedbyanestimateofsellingcosts.Withregardtoresidentialrealestateloans,theCompany

expandeditscollectionsandloanworkoutstaffandfurtherrefineditslossidentificationandestimation

techniquesbyreferencetoloanperformanceandhousepricedepreciationdatainspecificareasofthecountry

wherecollateralthatwassecuringtheCompany™sresidentialrealestateloanswaslocated.Forresidentialreal

estate-relatedloans,includinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,theexcessoftheloanbalanceoverthenet

realizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhentheloanbecomes150daysdelinquent.

Thatcharge-offisbasedonrecentindicationsofvaluefromexternalpartiesthataregenerallyobtainedshortly

afteraloanbecomesnonaccrual.AtDecember31,2011,approximately35%oftheCompany™shomeequity

portfolioconsistedoffirstlienloans.Oftheremainingjuniorlienloansintheportfolio,approximately85%were

behindafirstlienmortgageloanthatwasnotownedorservicedbytheCompany.Forthejuniorlienloanswhere

anentityotherthantheCompanyheldafirstlienmortgage,theCompanycannotpreciselydeterminewhether

thereisadelinquencyonsuchfirstlienmortgage.Inmonitoringthecreditqualityofitshomeequityportfoliofor

purposesofdeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyreviewsdelinquencyandnonaccrual

informationandconsidersrecentcharge-offexperien
ceaspresentedintables10and13.Additionally,the
Companygenerallyevaluateshomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremorethan150dayspastduefor

collectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalanceoverthenetrealizablevalueofthe

propertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.Homeequitylineofcredittermsvarybutsuchlines

aregenerallyoriginatedwithanopendrawperiodoftenyearsfollowedbyanamortizationperiodofuptotwenty

years.AtDecember31,2011,approximately97%ofalloutstandingbalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditrelated

tolinesthatwerestillinthedrawperiod,theweighted-averageremainingdrawperiodswereapproximately5

years,andapproximately18%weremakingcontractuallyallowedpaymentsthatdonotincludeanyrepayment

ofprincipal.
FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Reflectingthefactorsandconditions

asdescribedherein,theCompanyhasexperiencedhistoricallyhighlevelsofnonaccrualloansandnet

charge-offsofresidentialrealestate-relatedloans,includingfirstandjuniorlienAlt-Amortgageloansand

loanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.TheCompanyhasalsoexperiencedhigherthan

historicallevelsofnonaccrualcommercialrealestateloanssince2009.Commercialrealestatevaluationscan

behighlysubjective,astheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffected

overrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economicconditions,interestrates,and,

inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,

residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousingtrends,theavailabilityoffinancingat

reasonableinterestrates,andgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleases.Inquantifyingincurredlosses,theCompanyconsidersthe

factorsandusesthetechniquesdescribedherein.Forpurposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowanceforcredit

losses,theCompanysegmentsitsloanandleaseportfoliobyloantype.Theamountofspecificlosscomponents

intheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliosisdeterminedthroughaloanbyloananalysisofcommercialloans
62andcommercialrealestateloansinnonaccrualstatus.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsistypically
basedonexpectedfuturecashflows,collateralvaluesorotherfactorsthatmayimpacttheborrower™sabilityto

pay.Exceptforconsumerloansandleasesandresidenti
alrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalance
homogeneousloansandareevaluatedcollectivelyandloan
sobtainedinacquisitiontransactions,theCompany
considersaloantobeimpairedwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompany

willbeunabletocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanis

delinquent90daysormoreandhasbeenplacedinnonaccrualstatus.Thoseimpairedloansareevaluatedfor

specificlosscomponents.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobe

troubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodified

loantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Loanslessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemed

tohaveaminimaldelayinpaymentandaregenerallynotconsideredtobeimpaired.Loansacquiredin

connectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfairvaluewithnocarry-overofany

previouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueoftheacquiredloansrequired

estimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscountingthosecashflowsatthen-current

interestrates.Theimpactofestimatedfuturecreditlossesrepresentsthepredominantdifferencebetween

contractuallyrequiredpaymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedatacquisition.

SubsequentdecreasestothoseexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforanadditional

allowanceforcreditlossesandcouldleadtocharge-offsofacquiredloanbalances.
TheinherentbaselevellosscomponentsoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlossesaregenerally
determinedbyapplyinglossfactorstospecificloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™s

classificationofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.TheCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialrealestatecredits.Aspreviouslydescribed,loan

officersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe

Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsoextensivelymonitoredbytheCompany™sloanreview

departmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loanbalancesutilizedin

theinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationsexcludeloansandleasesforwhichspecificallocations

aremaintained.LoangradesareassignedlosscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™slossestimatefor

eachgroupofloansandleases.Factorsconsideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponentfactors

includeborrower-specificinformationrelatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,collateral

values,financialcondition,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-

offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;changesintherisk

profileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;

andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,

managementalsogivesconsiderationtosuchfactorsascustomer,industryandgeographicconcentrations

aswellasnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsincluding:(i)thecomparativelypoorereconomic

conditionsandunfavorablebusinessclimateinmanymarketregionsservedbytheCompany,specifically

upstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania,thatresultinsuchregionsgenerallyexperiencingsignificantly

poorereconomicgrowthandvitalityascomparedwithmuchoftherestofthecountry;(ii)portfolio

concentrationsregardingloantype,collateraltypeandgeographiclocation;and(iii)additionalrisk

associatedwiththeCompany™sportfolioofconsumerloans,inparticularautomobileloansandleases,

whichgenerallyhavehigherratesoflossthanothertypesofcollateralizedloans.
Theinherentbaselevellosscomponentsrelatedtoresidentialrealestateloansandconsumerloans
aregenerallydeterminedbyapplyinglossfactorstoportfoliobalancesafterconsiderationofpayment

performanceandrecentlossexperienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesin

themarketplaceaswellastheamountofloandefaults.Lossratesforloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,

includinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,aredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistoryand

areevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsincludingnear-

termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™screditdepartment.Theseforecastsgive

considerationtooverallborrowerrepaymentperformanceandcurrentgeographicregionchangesin

collateralvaluesusingthirdpartypublishedhistoricalpriceindicesorautomatedvaluationmethodologies.

Withregardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompanycontemplatesrepaymentof

anyfirstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonajuniorlienposition.Approximately65%ofthe

Company™shomeequityportfolioconsistsofjuniorlienloansandlinesofcredit.TheCompanygenerally

evaluatesresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremorethan150days

pastdueforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalanceoverthenetrealizable

valueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.
63Inevaluatingcollateral,theCompanyreliesextensivelyoninternallyandexternallyprepared
valuations.Inrecentyears,valuationsofresidentialrealestate,whichareusuallybasedonsalesof
comparableproperties,declinedsignificantlyinmanyregionsacrosstheUnitedStates.Commercialreal

estatevaluationsalsorefertosalesofcomparablepropertiesbutoftentimesarebasedoncalculationsthat

utilizemanyassumptionsand,asaresult,canbehighlysubjective.Specifically,commercialrealestatevalues

canbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economic

conditionsandinterestrates,and,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesandotheroccupants

oftherealproperty.Additionally,managementisawarethatthereisoftentimesadelayintherecognitionof

creditqualitychangesinloansand,asaresult,inchangestoassignedloangradesduetotimedelaysinthe

manifestationandreportingofunderlyingeventsthatimpactcreditquality.Accordingly,lossestimates

derivedfromtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationareadjustedforcurrentnationalandlocal

economicconditionsandtrends.Economicindicatorsinthemostsignificantmarketregionsservedbythe

Companyimprovedsomewhatduring2011butremainedgenerallybelowpre-recessionlevels.Forexample,

during2011,privatesectoremploymentinmostmarketareasservedbytheCompanyroseby0.9%,roughly

halfthe1.6%U.S.average.Privatesectoremploymentin2011increased1.0%inupstateNewYork,0.9%in

areasofPennsylvaniaservedbytheCompany,0.4%inMaryland,0.6%inGreaterWashingtonD.C.and

0.1%intheStateofDelaware.InNewYorkCity,privatesectoremploymentincreasedby1.4%in2011,

however,unemploymentratesthereremainelevatedandareexpectedtocontinueatabovehistoricallevels

during2012.Attheendof2011thereremainedsignificantconcernsaboutthepaceofnationaleconomic

recoveryfromtherecession,highunemployment,realestatevaluations,highlevelsofconsumer

indebtedness,volatileenergyprices,stateandlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficitsandsovereigndebtissuesin

Europethatweighontheglobaleconomicoutlook.Thosefactorsareexpectedtoactassignificant

headwindsforthenationaleconomyin2012.
Thespecificlosscomponentsandtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentstogethercomprisethetotal
baselevelorﬁallocatedﬂallowanceforcreditlosses.Suchallocatedportionoftheallowancerepresents

management™sassessmentoflossesexistinginspecificlargerbalanceloansthatarereviewedindetailby

managementandpoolsofotherloansthatarenotindividuallyanalyzed.Inaddition,theCompanyhas

alwaysprovidedaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowancethatisintendedtorecognizeprobable

lossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiable.Theinherentunallocatedallowanceincludesmanagement™s

subjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessaryforsuchthingsasthepossibleuseofimpreciseestimatesin

determiningtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceandotherrisksassociatedwiththeCompany™sloan

portfoliowhichmaynotbespecificallyallocable.
Acomparativeallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossesforeachofthepastfiveyear-endsis
presentedintable14.Amountswereallocatedtospecificloancategoriesbasedoninformationavailableto

managementatthetimeofeachyear-endassessmentandusingthemethodologydescribedherein.

Variationsintheallocationoftheallowancebyloancategoryasapercentageofthoseloansreflectchanges

inmanagement™sestimateofspecificlosscomponentsandinherentbaselevellosscomponents,including

theimpactofdelinquenciesandnonaccrualloans.Asdescribedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements,

loansconsideredimpairedwere$1.1billionand$1.2billionatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,

respectively.Theallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesrelatedtoimpairedloanstotaled

$168millionatDecember31,2011and$214millionatDecember31,2010.Theunallocatedportionofthe

allowanceforcreditlosseswasequalto.12%and.13%ofgrossloansoutstandingatDecember31,2011and

2010,respectively.Thedeclineintheunallocatedportionoftheallowancein2008reflectsmanagement™s

refinementofitslossestimationtechniques,whichhadincreasedtheprecisionofitscalculationofthe

allocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.However,giventheinherentimprecisioninthemany

estimatesusedinthedeterminationoftheallocatedportionoftheallowance,managementdeliberately

remainedcautiousandconservativeinestablishingtheoverallallowanceforcreditlosses.Giventhe

Company™shighconcentrationofrealestateloansandconsideringtheotherfactorsalreadydiscussed

herein,managementconsiderstheallocatedandunallocatedportionsoftheallowanceforcreditlossestobe

prudentandreasonable.Furthermore,theCompany™sallowanceisgeneralinnatureandisavailableto

absorblossesfromanyloanorleasecategory.Additionalinformationabouttheallowanceforcreditlossesis

includedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
64Table14
ALLOCATIONOFTHEALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSESTOLOANCATEGORIES
December31
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........$234,022$212,579$219,170$231,993$216,833
Realestate
.............................459,552486,913451,352340,588283,127
Consumer.............................143,121133,067137,124140,571167,984
Unallocated............................71,59570,38270,37674,75291,495
Total................................$908,290$902,941$878,022$787,904$759,439
AsaPercentageofGrossLoans
andLeasesOutstanding
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........1.47%1.56%1.59%1.59%1.62%
Realestate
.............................1.421.791.701.431.20
Consumer.............................1.191.161.141.281.49
ManagementbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesatDecember31,2011appropriately
reflectedcreditlossesinherentintheportfolioasofthatdate.Theallowanceforcreditlosseswas
$908millionor1.51%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2011,comparedwith$903millionor1.74%

atDecember31,2010and$878millionor1.69%atDecember31,2009.Theratiooftheallowancetototal

loansandleasesateachrespectiveyear-endreflectstheimpactofloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions

subsequentto2008thathavebeenrecordedatestimatedfairvaluebasedonestimatedfuturecashflows

expectedtobereceivedonthoseloans.Thosecashflowsreflecttheimpactofexpecteddefaultsoncustomer

repaymentperformance.Asnotedearlier,GAAPprohibitsanycarry-overofanallowanceforcreditlosses

foracquiredloansrecordedatfairvalue.Thedeclineintheratiooftheallowancetototalloansandleases

fromDecember31,2010toDecember31,2011reflectstheimpactof$5.5billionofloansobtainedinthe

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™sevaluationoftheloan

andleaseportfoliousingthemethodologyandconsideringthefactorsasdescribedherein.Shouldthe

variouscreditfactorsconsideredbymanagementinestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosseschangeand

shouldmanagement™sassessmentoflossesinherentintheloanportfoliosalsochange,thelevelofthe

allowanceasapercentageofloanscouldincreaseordecreaseinfutureperiods.Theratiooftheallowanceto

nonaccrualloansattheendof2011,2010and2009was83%,79%and70%,respectively.Giventhe

Company™spositionasasecuredlenderanditspracticeofchargingoffloanbalanceswhencollectionis

deemeddoubtful,thatratioandchangesinthatratioaregenerallynotanindicativemeasureofthe

adequacyoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses,nordoesmanagementrelyuponthatratioin

determiningtheallowance.Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™sevaluationoftheloanandlease

portfolioasofeachrespectivedate.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,managementfollowsthemethodologydescribed
herein,includingtakingaconservativeviewofborrowers™abilitiestorepayloans.Theestablishmentofthe

allowanceisextremelysubjectiveandrequiresmanagementtomakemanyjudgmentsaboutborrower,

industry,regionalandnationaleconomichealthandperformance.Inordertopresentexamplesofthe

possibleimpactontheallowancefromcertainchangesincreditqualityfactors,theCompanyassumedthe

followingscenariosforpossibledeteriorationofcreditquality:
ŠForconsumerloansandleasesconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenousloansandevaluated

collectively,a20basispointincreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,alsoconsideredsmaller

balancehomogenousloansandevaluatedcollectively,a15%increaseinestimatedinherent

losses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstolower-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina20%increaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
65Forpossibleimprovementincreditqualityfactors,thescenariosassumedwere:
ŠForconsumerloansandleases,a10basispointdecreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,a5%decreaseinestimated
inherentlosses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstohigher-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina5%decreaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Thescenarioanalysesresultedinanadditional$70millionthatcouldbeidentifiableunderthe
assumptionsforcreditdeterioration,whereasundertheassumptionsforcreditimprovementa$22million
reductioncouldoccur.Theseexamplesareonlyafewofnumerousreasonablypossiblescenariosthatcould

beutilizedinassessingthesensitivityoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbasedonchangesinassumptionsand

otherfactors.
Investor-ownedcommercialrealestateloanssecuredbyretailpropertiesintheNewYorkCity
metropolitanarearepresented3%ofloansoutstandingatDecember31,2011.TheCompanyhadno

concentrationsofcreditextendedtoanyspecificindustrythatexceeded10%oftotalloansatDecember31,

2011.Outstandingloanstoforeignborrowerswere$128millionatDecember31,2011,or.2%oftotalloans

andleases.
Realestateandotherforeclosedassetstotaledto$157millionatDecember31,2011,comparedwith
$220millionatDecember31,2010and$95millionatDecember31,2009.Thedeclineinsuchassetsat

December31,2011ascomparedwiththe2010year-endreflectsthesaleduringthesecondquarterof2011

ofacommercialrealestatepropertylocatedinNewYorkCitywithacarryingvalueof$98million.The

increasein2010ascomparedwith2009resultedfromthesecondquarteradditionofthatpreviously

discussedcommercialrealestatepropertylocatedinNewYorkCity,andfromhigherresidentialrealestate

loandefaultsandadditionsfromresidentialrealestatedevelopmentprojects.AtDecember31,2011,65%of

foreclosedassetswerecomprisedofresidentialrealestate-relatedproperties.Reflectedinrealestateand

otherforeclosedassetsatDecember31,2011were$48millionofassetsassociatedwiththeWilmington

Trustacquisition.
OtherIncome
Otherincomeaggregated$1.58billionin2011,up43%from$1.11billionin2010.Reflectedinsuchincome

werenetgainsandlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses),

whichtotaledtoanetgainof$73millionin2011andtoanetlossof$84millionin2010.Alsoreflectedin

otherincomewerethe$55millionCDOlitigationsettlementin2011,the$65milliongainrecognizedon

theWilmingtonTrustacquisitionin2011andthe$28milliongainrecognizedontheKBankacquisition

transactionin2010.Excludingthespecificitemsmentionedabove,noninterestincomewas$1.39billionin

2011,up$226millionfrom$1.16billionin2010.Thepredominantcontributortothat$226millionrisein

noninterestincomewashighertrustincomeresultingfromtheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.Higher

revenuesin2011fromcredit-relatedfeesandmerchantdiscountandcreditcardfeeswereoffsetbylower

incomefromresidentialmortgagebankingandservicechargesondepositaccounts.
Otherincomein2010was6%higherthanthe$1.05billionearnedin2009.Asnotedabove,reflected
inotherincomein2010werenetlossesfrombankinvestmentsecuritiesof$84million,comparedwithnet

lossesof$137millionin2009.Excludingtheimpactofsecuritiesgainsandlossesfrombothyears,the$28

milliongainassociatedwiththeKBankacquisitiontransactionin2010andthe$29milliongainassociated

withtheBradfordacquisitiontransactionin2009,otherincomewas$1.16billionineachof2010and2009.

Higherrevenuesin2010relatedtocommercialmortgagebanking,servicechargesondepositaccounts,

credit-relatedfeesandotherrevenuesfromoperationswereoffsetbylowerrevenuesfromresidential

mortgagebanking,brokerageservicesandtheCompany™strustbusiness.
Mortgagebankingrevenueswere$166millionin2011,$185millionin2010and$208millionin
2009.Mortgagebankingrevenuesarecomprisedofbothresidentialandcommercialmortgagebanking

activities.TheCompany™sinvolvementincommercialmortgagebankingactivitiesincludestheorigination,

salesandservicingofloansunderthemulti-familyloanprogramsofFannieMae,FreddieMacandthe

U.S.DepartmentofHousingandUrbanDevelopment.
Residentialmortgagebankingrevenues,consistingofrealizedgainsfromsalesofresidential
mortgageloansandloanservicingrights,unrealizedgainsandlossesonresidentialmortgageloansheldfor

saleandrelatedcommitments,residentialmortgageloanservicingfees,andotherresidentialmortgageloan-

relatedfeesandincome,were$103millionin2011,$127millionin2010and$166millionin2009.The

lowerrevenuein2011ascomparedwith2010waslargelyattributabletolowervolumesofloansoriginated
66forsale,whichreflectstheCompanyretainingforportfolioduringmostof2011alargeportionof
residentialrealestateloansoriginated.Thedeclineinsuchrevenuesin2010from2009alsoreflectsthe

impactofloweroriginationvolumesandtheCompany™sdecisioninSeptember2010toretainforportfolioa

higherproportionoforiginatedloansratherthansellingthem,plustheimpactofincreasedcostsassociated

withobligationstorepurchasecertainmortgageloanspreviouslysold.
Newcommitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgageloanstobesoldwereapproximately$1.9billion
in2011,comparedwith$4.1billionin2010and$6.1billionin2009.Similarly,closedresidentialmortgage

loansoriginatedforsaletootherinvestorstotaledapproximately$2.0billionin2011,$4.2billionin2010

and$6.2billionin2009.Realizedgainsfromsalesofresidentialmortgageloansandloanservicingrights

(netoftheimpactofcostsassociatedwithobligationstorepurchasemortgageloansoriginatedforsale)and

recognizednetunrealizedgainsorlossesattributabletoresidentialmortgageloansheldforsale,

commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloanstotaledtoagainof$17millionin

2011,comparedwithgainsof$43millionin2010and$79millionin2009.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloansthatdonotultimately
meetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodo

so,theCompanymayreimbursepurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.The

Companyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesforlossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloan

purchasers.Theamountofthosechargesvariesbasedonthevolumeofloanssold,thelevelof

reimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthatmaybeassociatedwith

previouslysoldloans.Residentialmortgagebankingrevenuesduring2011,2010and2009werereducedby

approximately$23million,$30millionand$10million,respectively,relatedtotheactualoranticipated

settlementofrepurchaseobligations.
Lateinthethirdquarterof2010,theCompanybegantooriginatecertainresidentialrealestateloans
tobeheldinitsloanportfolio,ratherthancontinuingtosellsuchloans.TheloansconformtoFannieMae

andFreddieMacunderwritingguidelines.Retainingthoseresidentialrealestateloansoffsettheimpactof

thedeclininginvestmentsecuritiesportfolioresultingfrommaturitiesandpay-downsofresidential

mortgage-backedsecuritieswhileprovidinghighqualityassetsearningareasonableyield.FromMarch

throughJune2011,theCompanyresumedoriginatingforsalethemajorityofnewresidentialrealestate

loans.However,beginninginJuly2011,theCompanyresumedoriginatingthemajorityofresidentialreal

estateloanstobeheldinitsloanportfolio.Thedecisiontoretainforportfoliothemajorityofsuchloans

originatedratherthansellingthemresultedinareductionofresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesof

approximately$27millionand$11millionin2011and2010,respectively.
Loansheldforsalethataresecuredbyresidentialrealestatetotaled$210millionand$341millionat
December31,2011and2010,respectively.Commitmentstosellresidentialmortgageloansand

commitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgageloansforsaleatpre-determinedrateswere$296millionand

$182million,respectively,atDecember31,2011,$458millionand$162million,respectively,at

December31,2010and$936millionand$631million,respectively,atDecember31,2009.Netunrealized

gainsonresidentialmortgageloansheldforsale,commitmentstosellloans,andcommitmentstooriginate

loansforsalewere$6millionand$11millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,and$15million

atDecember31,2009.Changesinsuchnetunrealizedgainsandlossesarerecordedinmortgagebanking

revenuesandresultedinnetdecreasesinrevenueof$4millionand$5millionin2011and2010,

respectively,andanetincreaseinrevenueof$9millionin2009.
Revenuesfromservicingresidentialmortgageloansforotherswere$83millionin2011,compared
with$80millionin2010and$82millionin2009.Includedinsuchservicingrevenueswereamountsrelated

topurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwithsmallbalancecommercialmortgageloanstotaling$23million

in2011,$27millionin2010and$29millionin2009.Residentialmortgageloansservicedforothers

aggregated$40.7billionatDecember31,2011,$21.1billionayearearlierand$21.4billionatDecember31,

2009,includingthesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloansnotedaboveofapproximately$4.4billion,

$5.2billionand$5.5billionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.Reflectedinresidential

mortgageloansservicedforotherswereloanssub-servicedforothersof$14.3billionatDecember31,2011.

Loanssub-servicedforotherswerenotsignificantatDecember31,2010.During2011,theCompany

purchasedservicingrightswhichhadoutstandingprincipalbalancesatDecember31,2011totaling$6.4

billion.Capitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassets,netofanyapplicablevaluationallowancefor

possibleimpairment,totaled$145millionatDecember31,2011,comparedwith$118millionand

$141millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Thevaluationallowanceforpossibleimpairment

ofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetstotaled$2millionand$50thousandatthe2011and2009
67year-ends,respectively.TherewasnosimilarvaluationallowanceatDecember31,2010.OnSeptember30,
2011,theCompanypurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwithresidentialmortgageloanshavingan

outstandingprincipalbalanceofapproximately$6.7billion.Thepurchasepriceforsuchservicingrightswas

$54million.Approximately$5millionofservicingfeesrelatedtothatportfolioofloanswereincludedin

mortgagebankingrevenuesduring2011.Includedincapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetswere

purchasedservicingrightsassociatedwiththesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloansnotedaboveof$16

million,$26millionand$40millionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.Servicingrightsfor

thesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloanswerepurchasedfromBLGoritsaffiliates.Inaddition,at

December31,2011and2010capitalizedservicingrightsincluded$5millionand$9million,respectively,of

servicingrightsfor$3.1billionand$3.6billion,respectively,ofresidentialrealestateloansthatwere

purchasedfromaffiliatesofBLG.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™srelationshipwithBLGand

itsaffiliatesisprovidedinnote25ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Additionalinformationaboutthe

Company™scapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassets,includinginformationaboutthe

calculationofestimatedfairvalue,ispresentedinnote7ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Commercialmortgagebankingrevenuestotaled$63millionin2011,$58millionin2010and
$42millionin2009.Revenuesfromloanoriginationandsalesactivitieswere$41millionin2011,

$40millionin2010and$27millionin2009.Commercialmortgageloansoriginatedforsaletoother

investorstotaledapproximately$1.5billionin2011,comparedwith$1.6billionin2010and$1.1billionin

2009.Loanservicingrevenuestotaled$22millionin2011,$18millionin2010and$15millionin2009.

Capitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingassetsaggregated$51millionatDecember31,2011,

$43millionatDecember31,2010and$33millionatDecember31,2009.Commercialmortgageloans

servicedforotherinvestorstotaled$9.0billion,$8.1billionand$7.1billionatDecember31,2011,2010and

2009,respectively,andincluded$1.8billion,$1.6billionand$1.3billion,respectively,ofloanbalancesfor

whichinvestorshadrecoursetotheCompanyifsuchbalancesareultimatelyuncollectible.Commitmentsto

sellcommercialmortgageloansandcommitmentstooriginatecommercialmortgageloansforsalewere

$339millionand$178million,respectively,atDecember31,2011,$276millionand$73million,

respectively,atDecember31,2010and$303millionand$180million,respectively,atDecember31,2009.

Commercialmortgageloansheldforsaletotaled$161million,$204millionand$123millionat

December31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.
Servicechargesondepositaccountsdeclined5%to$455millionin2011from$478millionin2010.
Thatdeclineresultedfromregulatorychangesthatwentintoeffectduringthethirdquarterof2010andinthe

fourthquarterof2011.The2010changerelatedtoregulationspromulgatedbytheFederalReserveandother

bankregulatorsthatrequireconsumerstoelecttobes
ubjecttofeesforoverdraftandcertaindepositaccount

transactionsbeforeafinancialinstitutionmaychargesuchfees.TheCompanyestimatesthattheimpactof

suchregulationswastoreduceservicechargesondepositaccountsbyapproximately$68millionand$35

millionin2011and2010,respectively.TheregulatorychangesthatwereeffectiveOctober1,2011werepartof

theDodd-FrankActandlimitdebitcard-interchangefeesthatfinancialinstitutionsareabletoassess.The

Companyestimatesthattheimpactofthatchangeresultedinareductionofservicechargesondeposit

accountsinthefourthquarterof2011ofapproximately
$17million.Partiallyoffsettingtheimpactofthenew
regulationswereservicechargesondepositaccountsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,which

totaledapproximately$18millionin2011.Depositaccountservicechargesin2009were$469million.The

improvementfrom2009to2010resultedlargelyfromthefull-yearimpactof2009acquisitiontransactionsand

increaseddebitcardfeesresultingfromhighertransactionvolumes.Thosepositivefactorswerepartiallyoffset

bytheimpactofregulationsthatwentintoeffectduringthethirdquarterof2010.
Trustincomeincludesfeesfortrustandcustodyservicesprovidedtopersonal,corporateand
institutionalcustomers,andinvestmentmanagementandadvisoryfeesthatareoftenbasedonapercentage

ofthemarketvalueofassetsundermanagement.Trustincomerosedramaticallyin2011,up171%to

$332millionin2011from$123millionin2010.During2009,trustincometotaled$129million.The

WilmingtonTrustacquisitioncontributed$217milliontotrustincomein2011.Thatacquisitionbrought

withittwosignificantsourcesoftrustincome.TheCorporateClientServices(ﬁCCSﬂ)businessprovidesa

varietyoftrustee,agency,investmentmanagementandadministrativeservicesforcorporationsand

institutions,investmentbankers,corporatetax,financeandlegalexecutives,andotherinstitutionalclients

who:(i)usecapitalmarketsfinancingstructures;(ii)useindependenttrusteestoholdretirementplanand

otherassets;and(iii)needinvestmentandcashmanagementservices.ManyCCSclientsaremultinational

corporationsandinstitutions.TheWealthAdvisoryServices(ﬁWASﬂ)businesshelpshighnetworthclients

growtheirwealth,protectit,andtransferittotheirheirs.Acomprehensivearrayofwealthmanagement
68servicesareoffered,includingassetmanagement,fiduciaryservicesandfamilyofficeservices.Trustincome
in2011reflects$119millionofrevenuesfromacquiredCCSactivitiesand$87millionfromacquiredWAS

activities.Adverselyimpactingtrustincomein2011,2010and2009werefeewaiversbytheCompanyin

ordertopaycustomersayieldontheirinvestmentsintheproprietarymoney-marketmutualfunds.Those

waivedfeeswereapproximately$33millionin2011,$18millionin2010and$10millionin2009.Totaltrust

assets,whichincludeassetsundermanagementandassetsunderadministration,aggregated$261.9billionat

December31,2011,comparedwith$113.4billionatDecember31,2010.Trustassetsundermanagement

were$52.7billionand$13.2billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Theacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrustaddedtrustassetsundermanagementandassetsunderadministrationaggregating$42.2

billionand$154.1billion,respectively,duringthesecondquarterof2011.Inadditiontotheassetamounts

notedabove,trustassetsundermanagementofaffiliates(obtainedintheWilmingtonTrusttransaction)

totaled$14.3billionatDecember31,2011.Furthermore,theCompany™sproprietarymutualfundshad

assetsof$13.8billionand$7.7billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
Brokerageservicesincome,whichincludesrevenuesfromthesaleofmutualfundsandannuitiesand
securitiesbrokeragefees,aggregated$56millionin2011,$50millionin2010and$58millionin2009.The

declineinrevenuesin2010ascomparedwith2011and2009wasattributabletolowersalesofannuity

products.Tradingaccountandforeignexchangeactivityresultedingainsof$27millionineachof2011and

2010,and$23millionin2009.Theriseingainsfrom2009to2010and2011wasduetohighernewvolumesof

interestrateswapagreementtransactionsexecutedonbehalfofcommercialcustomersinthetwolatestyears.

TheCompanyentersintointerestrateandforeignexchangecontractswithcustomerswhoneedsuchservices

andconcomitantlyentersintooffsettingtradingpositionswiththirdpartiestominimizetherisksinvolved

withthesetypesoftransactions.Informationaboutthenotionalamountofinterestrate,foreignexchangeand

othercontractsenteredintobytheCompanyfortradingaccountpurposesisincludedinnote18ofNotesto

FinancialStatementsandhereinundertheheadingﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity.ﬂ
Includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,theCompanyrecognizednetgainson
investmentsecuritiesof$73millionduring2011,comparedwithnetlossesof$84millionand$137million

in2010and2009,respectively.During2011theCompanyrealizedgainsof$150millionfromthesaleof

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,predominantlyresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedby

FannieMaeandFreddieMac,collateralizeddebtobligationsandtrustpreferredsecurities,havingan

amortizedcostof$1.75billion.Realizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswerenot

significantin2010or2009.Other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$77million,$86millionand

$138millionwererecordedin2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thechargesrecordedin2011relatedto

certainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans.TheCompany

recognizedimpairmentchargesduring2010of$68millionrelatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOsbacked

byresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans,$6millionrelatedtoCDOsbackedbytrustpreferred

securitiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentities,anda$12millionwrite-downofAIBADSs.The

AIBADSswereobtainedinaprioracquisitionofasubsidiaryofAIBandwereheldtosatisfyoptionsto

purchasesuchsharesgrantedbythatsubsidiarytocertainofitsemployees.During2009,theCompany

recognizedimpairmentchargesoncertainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialrealestateloansof

$128millionandCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesof$10million.Eachreportingperiodthe

Companyreviewsitsimpairedinvestmentsecuritiesforother-than-temporaryimpairment.Forequity

securities,theCompanyconsidersvariousfactorstodetermineifthedeclineinvalueisotherthan

temporary,includingthedurationandextentofthedeclineinvalue,thefactorscontributingtothedecline

infairvalue,includingthefinancialconditionoftheissueraswellastheconditionsoftheindustryinwhich

itoperates,andtheprospectsforarecoveryinfairvalueoftheequitysecurity.Fordebtsecurities,the

Companyanalyzesthecreditworthinessoftheissuerorreviewsthecreditperformanceoftheunderlying

collateralsupportingthebond.Fordebtsecuritiesbackedbypoolsofloans,suchasprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyestimatesthecashflowsoftheunderlyingloancollateralusing

forward-lookingassumptionsofdefaultrates,lossseveritiesandprepaymentspeeds.Estimatedcollateral

cashflowsarethenutilizedtoestimatebond-specificcashflowstodeterminetheultimatecollectibilityof

thebond.IfthepresentvalueofthecashflowsindicatesthattheCompanyshouldnotexpecttorecoverthe

entireamortizedcostbasisofabondoriftheCompanyintendstosellthebondoritmorelikelythannot

willberequiredtosellthebondbeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,another-than-temporary

impairmentlossisrecognized.Ifanother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossisdeemedtohaveoccurred,the

investmentsecurity™scostbasisisadjusted,asappropriateforthecircumstances.Additionalinformation

aboutother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapital.ﬂ
69M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLGwas$24millionin2011,comparedwith$26millionin
eachof2010and2009.TheoperatinglossesofBLGintherespectiveyearsresultedfromthedisruptionsin
theresidentialandcommercialrealestatemarketsandreflectedprovisionsforlossesassociatedwith

securitizedloansandotherloansheldbyBLG,loanservicingandotheradministrativecosts,andin2009

alsoreflectedcostsassociatedwithseveranceandcertainleaseterminationsincurredbyBLGasitdownsized

itsoperations.Theloanlosseslargelyrelatetoloansinnon-recoursesecuritizationtruststhatBLG

consolidatesinitsfinancialstatements.UnderGAAP,suchlossesarerequiredtoberecognizedbyBLG

despitethefactthatmanyofthesecuritizedloanlosseswillultimatelybebornebytheunderlyingthirdparty

bond-holders.Astheseloanlossesarerealizedthroughlaterforeclosureandstilllatersaleofrealestate

collateral,theunderlyingbondswillbecharged-downresultinginBLG™sfuturerecognitionofdebt

extinguishmentgains.Thetimingofsuchdebtextinguishmentislargelydependentonthetimingofloan

workoutsandcollateralliquidationsandgivenongoingloanlossprovisioningitisdifficulttoprojectwhen

BLGwillreturntoprofitability.Despitethecreditandliquiditydisruptionsthatbeganin2007,BLGhad

beensuccessfullysecuritizingandsellingsignificantvolumesofsmall-balancecommercialrealestateloans

untilthefirstquarterof2008.However,inresponsetotheilliquidityinthemarketplacesincethattime,

BLGceaseditsoriginationsactivities.Asaresultofpastsecuritizationactivities,BLGisstillentitledtocash

flowsfrommortgageassetsthatitownsorthatareownedbyitsaffiliatesandisalsoentitledtoreceive

distributionsfromaffiliatesthatprovideassetmanagementandotherservices.Accordingly,theCompany

believesthatBLGiscapableofrealizingpositivecashflowsthatcouldbeavailablefordistributiontoits

owners,includingM&T,despitealackofpositiveGAAP-earningsfromitscoremortgageoriginationand

securitizationactivities.Tothispoint,BLG™saffiliateshavereinvestedtheirearningstogenerateadditional

servicingandassetmanagementactivitiesfurthercontributingtothevalueofthoseaffiliatesthatinuresto

thebenefitofBLGand,ultimately,M&T.In2011™sfinalquartertheCompanyrecognizeda$79million

other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBLG.Whilethesmall

businesscommercialrealestatesecuritizationmarketthatBLGpreviouslyoperatedincontinuestobe

stagnant,itsaffiliatedassetmanagementoperationscontinuetogrowanditsbusinessofmanagingcapitalin

thedistressedrealestatemarketisperformingwell.Nevertheless,inconsiderationofthepassageoftime

sinceM&T™soriginalinvestmentinBLGin2007,theprospectsofongoingloanlossesatBLGandthe

inabilitytoaccuratelypredictthetimingofpotentialdistributionstoM&T,managementincreasedits

estimateofthetimeframeoverwhichtheCompanycouldreasonablyanticipaterecoveryoftherecorded

investmentamountandconcludedthattheinvestmentwasother-than-temporarilyimpaired.That

investmentwaswritten-downtoitsestimatedfairvalueof$115million.Theimpairmentchargeof$79

millionwasrecordedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂIndeterminingthefairvalueofM&T™sinvestmentin

BLGatDecember31,2011,theCompanyprojectednofurthercommercialmortgageoriginationand

securitizationactivitiesbyBLG.BLG,however,isentitledtoreceive,ifandwhenmade,cashdistributions

fromaffiliates,aportionofwhichiscontractuallyrequiredtobedistributedtoM&T.Specifically,cashflows

relatedtomortgageassetsheldbyBLGanditsaffiliateswereestimatedusingvariousassumptionsonfuture

defaultandlossseveritiestoarriveatanexpectedamountofcashflowthatcouldbeavailablefor

distribution.AsofDecember31,2011,theweighted-averageassumptionofprojecteddefaultpercentageon

theunderlyingmortgageloancollateralsupportingthosemortgageassetswas31%andtheweighted-average

lossseverityassumptionwas75%.Withrespecttoprojectedvalueexpectedtobegeneratedbytheasset

managementandservicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates,M&Tdevelopedestimatesfromcompany-

providedforecastsoffinancialresultsandthroughdiscussionswiththeirseniormanagementpertainingto

longer-termprojectionsofgrowthinassetsundermanagementandassetservicingportfolios.M&T

considereddifferentscenariosofprojectedcashflowsthatcouldbegeneratedbytheassetmanagementand

servicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates.M&Tthendiscountedthevariousprojectionsusingdiscountrates

thatrangedfrom8.0%to12.5%.Thoseratesweregenerallydeterminedbyreferencetoreturnsrequiredby

investorsinsimilarbusinesses.Basedonthepresentvaluesofthosereasonablypossiblecashflows,the

CompanyconcludedthatitsinvestmentinBLG(whichincludestherighttoshareindistributionsfrom

affiliatesifandwhenmade)hadanestimatedfairvalueofapproximately$115million.Informationabout

theCompany™srelationshipwithBLGanditsaffiliatesisincludedinnote25ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Otherrevenuesfromoperationstotaled$497millionin2011,up40%from$355millionin2010.
Reflectedinsuchrevenuesin2011werethe$65milliongainrealizedontheacquisitionofWilmington

Trustandthe$55millionCDOlitigationsettlement,whilethe$28milliongainontheKBanktransaction

wasreflectedinthe2010total.Alsocontributingtotheimprovementinotherrevenuesfromoperationsin
702011ascomparedwith2010wereincreasesinrevenuesfromletterofcreditandcredit-relatedfees,
merchantdiscountandcreditcardfees,andgainsfromthesaleofpreviouslyleasedequipment.Other

revenuesfromoperationswere$325millionin2009.Contributingtothe9%improvementfrom2009to

2010werea$12millionriseinletterofcreditandothercredit-relatedfeesandincreasesinmerchant

discountandcreditcardfees,underwritingandinvestmentadvisoryfees,andothermiscellaneousfeesand

revenues.Reflectedinotherrevenuesfromoperationsin2010and2009weremerger-relatedgainsof

$28millionand$29million,respectively,relatedtotheKBankandBradfordtransactions.
Includedinotherrevenuesfromoperationswerethefollowingsignificantcomponents.Letterof
creditandothercredit-relatedfeestotaled$130million,$112millionand$100millionin2011,2010and

2009,respectively.Theincreasesinsuchfeesfrom2010to2011andfrom2009to2010wereduelargelyto

higherincomefromprovidingletterofcreditandloansyndicationservices.Tax-exemptincomeearned

frombankownedlifeinsuranceaggregated$51millionin2011,$50millionin2010and$49millionin

2009.Suchincomeincludesincreasesincashsurrendervalueoflifeinsurancepoliciesandbenefitsreceived.

Revenuesfrommerchantdiscountandcreditcardfeeswere$60millionin2011,$46millionin2010and

$40millionin2009.Theincreasedrevenuesin2011ascomparedwith2010andin2010ascomparedwith

2009werelargelyattributabletohighertransactionvolumesrelatedtomerchantactivityandusageofthe

Company™screditcardproducts.Insurance-relatedsalescommissionsandotherrevenuestotaled

$40millionineachof2011and2010,and$42millionin2009.Automatedtellermachineusagefees

aggregated$19millionineachof2011and2009,and$18millionin2010.
OtherExpense
Otherexpenseaggregated$2.48billionin2011,comparedwith$1.91billionin2010and$1.98billionin

2009.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnatureconsistingof

amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$62million,$58millionand$64millionin2011,

2010and2009,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$84millionin2011,$771thousandin2010and

$89millionin2009.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpenseswere$2.33

billionin2011,$1.86billionin2010and$1.83billionin2009.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesin2011as

comparedwith2010waslargelytheresultoftheimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrust

acquisition,theimpairmentchargerelatedtoBLG,highercharitablecontributionsandhigherFDIC

assessments.Theincreaseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesin2010ascomparedwith2009waslargely

attributabletohighercostsforprofessionalservices,advertisingandpromotion,occupancyexpensesrelated

totheacquiredoperationsofProvident,anda$22millionreductionoftheallowanceforimpairmentof

capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingrightsin2009.Therewasnochangetothatimpairmentallowance

fortheyearendedDecember31,2010.Reflectedinnoninterestoperatingexpensesin2010wasthefull-year

impactoftheacquiredoperationsofProvidentandBradford.Partiallyoffsettingthehighercostsin2010

weredeclinesinexpensesrelatedtoforeclosedrealestatepropertiesandFDICassessments.
Salariesandemployeebenefitsexpensetotaled$1.20billionin2011,comparedwith$1.00billionin
eachof2010and2009.Thehigherexpenselevelsin2011ascomparedwith2010werepredominantlydueto

theoperationsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,butalsoreflect$16millionofmerger-related

salariesandemployeebenefitsexpensescomprisedpredominantlyofseveranceforWilmingtonTrust

employees.Whencomparing2010with2009,increasedincentivecompensationcostsandthefull-year

impactofthe2009acquisitiontransactionsin2010werelargelyoffsetbya$10milliondeclineinmerger-

relatedsalariesandemployeebenefitsexpensesthatconsistedpredominantlyofseveranceexpensefor

Providentemployees.Stock-basedcompensationtotaled$56millionin2011and$54millionineachof

2010and2009.Thenumberoffull-timeequivalentemployeeswas15,072atDecember31,2011,compared

with12,802and13,639atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.
TheCompanyprovidespensionandotherpostretirementbenefits(includingaretirementsavings
plan)foritsemployees.Expensesrelatedtosuchbenefitstotaled$86millionin2011,$66millionin2010

and$60millionin2009.TheCompanysponsorsbothdefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpension

plans.Pensionbenefitexpenseforthoseplanswas$53millionin2011(includingapproximately$9million

relatedtotheWilmingtonTrustacquisition),$38millionin2010and$32millionin2009.Includedinthose

amountsare$13millionin2011,$14millionin2010and$11millionin2009foradefinedcontribution

pensionplanthattheCompanybeganonJanuary1,2006.Theincreaseinpensionandotherpostretirement

benefitsexpensein2011ascomparedwith2010waspredominantlyduetotheimpactoftheWilmington

Trustacquisition(asnotedabove)andtheincreaseinamortizationofactuariallossesaccumulatedinthe

definedbenefitpensionplansofapproximately$7million.Thedeterminationofpensionexpenseandthe
71recognitionofnetpensionassetsandliabilitiesfordefinedbenefitpensionplansrequiresmanagementto
makevariousassumptionsthatcansignificantlyimpacttheactuarialcalculationsrelatedthereto.Those

assumptionsincludetheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets,therateofincreaseinfuture

compensationlevelsandthediscountrate.ChangesinanyofthoseassumptionswillimpacttheCompany™s

pensionexpense.Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionisdeterminedbytakinginto

considerationassetallocations,historicalreturnsonthetypesofassetsheldandcurrenteconomicfactors.

Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaid

managementinevaluatingsuchreturns.ThediscountrateusedbytheCompanytodeterminethepresent

valueoftheCompany™sfuturebenefitobligationsreflectsspecificmarketyieldsforahypotheticalportfolio

ofhighlyratedcorporatebondsthatwouldproducecashflowssimilartotheCompany™sbenefitplan

obligationsandthelevelofmarketinterestratesingeneralasoftheyear-end.Otherfactorsusedtoestimate

theprojectedbenefitobligationsincludeactuarialassumptionsformortalityrate,turnoverrate,retirement

rateanddisabilityrate.Thoseotherfactorsdonottendtochangesignificantlyovertime.TheCompany

reviewsitspensionplanassumptionsannuallytoensurethatsuchassumptionsarereasonableandadjusts

thoseassumptions,asnecessary,toreflectchangesinfutureexpectations.TheCompanyutilizesactuaries

andotherstoaidinthatassessment.
TheCompany™s2011pensionexpenseforitsdefinedbenefitplanswasdeterminedusingthe
followingassumptions:along-termrateofreturnonassetsof6.50%;arateoffuturecompensationincrease

of4.50%;andadiscountrateof5.25%.Todemonstratethesensitivityofpensionexpensetochangesinthe

Company™spensionplanassumptions,25basispointincreasesin:therateofreturnonplanassetswould

haveresultedinadecreaseinpensionexpenseof$2million;therateofincreaseincompensationwould

haveresultedinanincreaseinpensionexpenseof$.2million;andthediscountratewouldhaveresultedina

decreaseinpensionexpenseof$3million.Decreasesof25basispointsinthoseassumptionswouldhave

resultedinsimilarchangesinamount,butintheoppositedirectionfromthechangespresentedinthe

precedingsentence.Theaccountingguidancefordefinedbenefitpensionplansreflectsthelong-termnature

ofbenefitobligationsandtheinvestmenthorizonofplanassets,andhastheeffectofreducingexpense

volatilityrelatedtoshort-termchangesininterestratesandmarketvaluations.Actuarialgainsandlosses

includetheimpactofplanamendments,inadditiontovariousgainsandlossesresultingfromchangesin

assumptionsandinvestmentreturnswhicharedifferentfromthatwhichwasassumed.AsofDecember31,

2011,theCompanyhadcumulativeunrecognizedactuariallossesofapproximately$474millionthatcould

resultinanincreaseintheCompany™sfuturepensionexpensedependingonseveralfactors,including

whethersuchlossesateachmeasurementdateexceedtenpercentofthegreateroftheprojectedbenefit

obligationorthemarket-relatedvalueofplanassets.InaccordancewithGAAP,netunrecognizedgainsor

lossesthatexceedthatthresholdarerequiredtobeamortizedovertheexpectedserviceperiodofactive

employees,andareincludedasacomponentofnetpensioncost.Amortizationofthesenetunrealizedlosses

hadtheeffectofincreasingtheCompany™spensionexpensebyapproximately$21millionin2011,

$14millionin2010and$10millionin2009.
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitcost,areto

berecognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.AsofDecember31,2011,thecombined

benefitobligationsoftheCompany™sdefinedbenefitpostretirementplansexceededthefairvalueofthe

assetsofsuchplansbyapproximately$469million.Ofthatamount,$254millionwasrelatedtoqualified

definedbenefitplansthatareperiodicallyfundedbytheCompanyand$215millionrelatedtonon-qualified

pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansthataregenerallynotfundeduntilbenefitsarepaid.The

Companywasrequiredtohaveanetpensionandpostretirementbenefitliabilityforthoseplansthatwasat

leastequalto$469millionatDecember31,2011.Accordingly,asofDecember31,2011theCompany

recordedanadditionalpostretirementbenefitliabilityof$457million.Afterapplicabletaxeffect,that

additionalliabilityreducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(andtherebyshareholders™equity)by

$278million.Theresultofthiswasayear-over-yearincreaseof$258milliontotheadditionalminimum

postretirementbenefitliabilityfromthe$199millionrecordedatDecember31,2010.Afterapplicabletax

effect,the$258millionincreaseintheadditionalrequiredliabilitydecreasedaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincomein2011by$157millionfromtheprioryear-endamountof$121million.The
72$258millionincreasetotheliabilitywastheresultoflossesthatoccurredduring2011resultingfromactual
experiencedifferingfromactuarialassumptionsandfromchangesinthoseassumptions.Thoselossesreflect

a100basispointreductioninthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefined

benefitplansatDecember31,2011ascomparedwithayearearlier,inadditiontoactualinvestmentreturns

inthequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanthatwerelessthanexpectedreturns.Indeterminingthebenefit

obligationfordefinedbenefitpostretirementplanstheCompanyusedadiscountrateof4.25%at

December31,2011and5.25%atDecember31,2010.A25basispointdecreaseintheassumeddiscountrate

asofDecember31,2011to4.00%wouldhaveresultedinincreasesinthecombinedbenefitobligationsofall

definedbenefitpostretirementplans(includingpensionandotherplans)of$59million.Underthat

scenario,theminimumpostretirementliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2011wouldhavebeen

$516million,ratherthanthe$457millionthatwasactuallyrecorded,andthecorrespondingaftertax-effect

chargetoaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeatDecember31,2011wouldhavebeen$313million,

ratherthanthe$278millionthatwasactuallyrecorded.A25basispointincreaseintheassumeddiscount

rateto4.50%wouldhavedecreasedthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefinedbenefitpostretirement

plansby$57million.Underthislatterscenario,theaggregateminimumliabilityadjustmentat

December31,2011wouldhavebeen$400millionratherthanthe$457millionactuallyrecordedandthe

correspondingaftertax-effectchargetoaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomewouldhavebeen

$243millionratherthan$278million.TheCompanywasnotrequiredtomakeanycontributionstoits

qualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2011,2010or2009.However,during2011theCompanyelectedto

makeacashcontributionof$70millionandin2009theCompanyelectedtocontribute900,000sharesof

commonstockofM&Thavingathenfairvalueof$44milliontosuchplan.TheCompanydidnotmake

anycontributionstoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2010.InformationabouttheCompany™s

pensionplans,includingsignificantassumptionsutilizedincompletingactuarialcalculationsfortheplans,

isincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplanin
whicheligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributions

totheplan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofan

employee™scontribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.RSPexpensetotaled

$28millionin2011,$25millionin2010and$24millionin2009.Contributingtotheincreasefrom2010

wastheimpactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.
ExpensesassociatedwiththedefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpensionplansandtheRSPtotaled
$81millionin2011,$62millionin2010and$56millionin2009.Expenseassociatedwithprovidingmedicaland

otherpostretirementbenefitswas$4millionineachof2011,2010and2009.
Excludingthenonoperatingexpenseitemsalreadyn
oted,nonpersonneloperatingexpensestotaled
$1.14billionin2011,up34%from$856millionin2010.Theincreaseinsuchexpenseswaslargelyattributable

totheimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,theimpairmentchargerelated

toBLG,thecharitablecontributionandhigherFDICassessments.Nonpersonneloperatingexpenseswere

$835millionin2009.Contributingtotheincreasefrom2009to2010werehighercostsforprofessional

services,advertisingandpromotion,occupancyexpensesrelatedtothefull-yearimpactoftheacquired

operationsofProvident,anda$22millionreductionoftheallowanceforimpairmentofcapitalizedresidential

mortgageservicingrightsin2009.Therewasnochangeinsuchimpairmentallowancein2010.Partially

offsettingthefactorsdescribedaboveweredecreasedcostsrelatedtoforeclosedrealestatepropertiesandFDIC

assessmentsin2010.
IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$365millionin2011,comparedwith$357millionin2010and

$139millionin2009.Theeffectivetaxrateswere29.8%,32.6%and26.8%in2011,2010and2009,

respectively.Theeffectivetaxrateisaffectedbythelevelofincomeearnedthatisexemptfromtaxrelativeto

theoveralllevelofpre-taxincome,thelevelofincomeallocatedtothevariousstateandlocaljurisdictions

wheretheCompanyoperates,becausetaxratesdifferamongsuchjurisdictions,andtheimpactofanylarge

butinfrequentlyoccurringitems.Forexample,therecognitionofthenon-taxablegainof$65milliononthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionservedtolowertheeffectivetaxratein2011.Incometaxesin2011alsoreflect

theresolutionofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositionsthatallowedtheCompanytoreduceitsaccrualfor

incometaxesintotalby$12million.Excludingtheimpactof(i)thenon-taxablegainof$65milliononthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionand(ii)the$12millionaccrualreversalrelatedtotheresolutionwithtaxing

authoritiesofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositions,theCompany™seffectivetaxratefor2011wouldhavebeen
7332.5%.Thelowereffectivetaxratein2009waslargelyduetothatyear™slowerpre-taxincomerelativetothe
amountsoftax-exemptincomeandotherpermanentdifferencesthatimpacttheeffectivetaxrate.
TheCompany™seffectivetaxrateinfutureperiodswillbeaffectedbytheresultsofoperations
allocatedtothevarioustaxjurisdictionswithinwhichtheCompanyoperates,anychangeinincometaxlaws

orregulationswithinthosejurisdictions,andinterpretationsofincometaxregulationsthatdifferfromthe

Company™sinterpretationsbyanyofvarioustaxauthoritiesthatmayexaminetaxreturnsfiledbyM&Tor

anyofitssubsidiaries.Informationaboutamountsaccruedforuncertaintaxpositionsandareconciliation

ofincometaxexpensetotheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometaxratetopre-tax

incomeisprovidedinnote13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
InternationalActivities
TheCompany™snetinvestmentininternationalassetstotaled$160millionatDecember31,2011and

$113millionatDecember31,2010.Suchassetsincluded$128millionand$107million,respectively,of

loanstoforeignborrowers.DepositsintheCompany™sbranchintheCaymanIslandstotaled$356millionat

December31,2011and$1.6billionatDecember31,2010.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitate

customerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseem

reasonable.M&TBankopenedafull-servicecommercialbranchinOntario,Canadaduringthesecond

quarterof2010.LoansanddepositsatthatbranchasofDecember31,2011were$116millionand

$14million,respectively,comparedwith$63millionand$4million,respectively,atDecember31,2010.As

aresultoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,theCompanyofferstrust-relatedservicesthroughitsCCS

businessinEuropeandtheCaymanIslands.Revenuesfromprovidingsuchservicesduring2011were

approximately$15million.
Liquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity
Asafinancialintermediary,theCompanyisexposedtovariousrisks,includingliquidityandmarketrisk.

LiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowandliquidassetsareavailableto

satisfycurrentandfutureobligations,includingdemandsforloansanddepositwithdrawals,funding

operatingcosts,andothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskariseswheneverthematuritiesoffinancial

instrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.
CoredepositshavehistoricallybeenthemostsignificantfundingsourcefortheCompanyandare
generatedfromalargebaseofconsumer,corporateandinstitutionalcustomers.Thatcustomerbasehas,

overthepastseveralyears,becomemoregeographicallydiverseasaresultofacquisitionsandexpansionof

theCompany™sbusinesses.Nevertheless,theCompanyfacescompetitioninofferingproductsandservices

fromalargearrayoffinancialmarketparticipants,includingbanks,thrifts,mutualfunds,securitiesdealers

andothers.Coredepositsfinanced83%oftheCompany™searningassetsatDecember31,2011,compared

with77%and72%atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Theincreasesintheamountofearning

assetsfinancedbycoredepositsatthe2011and2010year-endsascomparedwithDecember31,2009reflect

higherlevelsofcoredeposits,largelyduetohighernoninterest-bearingdeposits,thathaveallowedthe

Companytoreduceshort-termandlong-termborrowings.Additionally,asofDecember31,2010the

Companychangeditsdefinitionofcoredepositstoincludetimedepositsbelow$250,000,asalreadynoted,

toreflectaprovisionintheDodd-FrankActwhichpermanentlyincreasedthemaximumamountofFDIC

insuranceforfinancialinstitutionsto$250,000perdepositor.Thatmaximumhadbeen$100,000per

depositoruntil2009,whenitwastemporarilyraisedto$250,000through2013.Theimpactofincluding

timedepositswithbalancesof$100,000to$250,000added$1.0billiontotheCompany™scoredepositstotal

atDecember31,2010.
TheCompanysupplementsfundingprovidedthroughcoredepositswithvariousshort-termand
long-termwholesaleborrowings,includingfederalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreementsto

repurchase,brokeredcertificatesofdeposit,CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsandborrowingsfromthe

FHLBsandothers.AtDecember31,2011,M&TBankhadshort-termandlong-termcreditfacilitieswith

theFHLBsaggregating$9.0billion.OutstandingborrowingsunderFHLBcreditfacilitiestotaled$1.4billion

and$2.9billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Suchborrowingsweresecuredbyloansand

investmentsecurities.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederal

ReserveBankofNewYorkthattotaledapproximately$10.0billionatDecember31,2011.Theamountsof

thoselinesaredependentuponthebalancesofloansandsecuritiespledgedascollateral.Therewereno

borrowingsoutstandingundersuchlinesofcreditatDecember31,2011orDecember31,2010.
74TheCompanyhas,fromtimetotime,issuedsubordinatedcapitalnotesandjuniorsubordinated
debenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiestoprovideliquidityandenhanceregulatorycapital
ratios.SuchnotesqualifyforinclusionintheCompany™scapitalasdefinedbyFederalregulators.

InformationabouttheCompany™sborrowingsisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyhasinformalandsometimesreciprocalsourcesoffundingavailablethroughvarious
arrangementsforunsecuredshort-termborrowingsfromawidegroupofbanksandotherfinancial

institutions.Short-termfederalfundsborrowingswere$590millionand$826millionatDecember31,2011

and2010,respectively.Ingeneral,thoseborrowingswereunsecuredandmaturedonthenextbusinessday.

Aspreviouslynoted,CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsandbrokeredcertificatesofdeposithavebeenusedby

theCompanyasanalternativetoshort-termborrowings.CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsalsogenerally

matureonthenextbusinessdayandtotaled$356millionand$1.6billionatDecember31,2011and2010,

respectively.OutstandingbrokeredtimedepositsatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010were

$1.0billionand$485million,respectively.BrokeredtimedepositsassumedintheWilmingtonTrust

transactionaggregated$1.4billionattheacquisitiondate.AtDecember31,2011,theweighted-average

remainingtermtomaturityofbrokeredtimedepositswas12months.Certainofthesebrokereddeposits

haveprovisionsthatallowforearlyredemption.TheCompanyalsohasbrokeredNOWandbrokered

money-marketdepositaccountswhichaggregated$1.1billionand$1.3billionatDecember31,2011and

2010,respectively.
TheCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegativelyimpacted
shouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionoritsdebtratings,or

shouldtheavailabilityofshort-termfundingbecomerestrictedduetoadisruptioninthefinancialmarkets.

TheCompanyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimatetheliquidity

impactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.Suchimpactisestimated

byattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesofcredit,availablecapacityfromsecured

borrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.InformationaboutthecreditratingsofM&TandM&TBankis

presentedintable15.AdditionalinformationregardingthetermsandmaturitiesofalloftheCompany™s

short-termandlong-termborrowingsisprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inadditionto

depositsandborrowings,othersourcesofliquidityincludematuritiesofinvestmentsecuritiesandother

earningassets,repaymentsofloansandinvestmentsecurities,andcashgeneratedfromoperations,suchas

feescollectedforservices.
Table15
DEBTRATINGS
Moody™sStandardandPoor™s
FitchM&TBankCorporation
Seniordebt
...................................................A3AŒAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................Baa1BBB+BBB+
M&TBank
Short-termdeposits
............................................Prime-1A-1F1
Long-termdeposits
............................................A2AA
Seniordebt
...................................................A2AAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................A3AŒ
BBB+CertaincustomersoftheCompanyobtainfinancingthroughtheissuanceofvariableratedemand
bonds(ﬁVRDBsﬂ).TheVRDBsaregenerallyenhancedbylettersofcreditprovidedbyM&TBank.M&T
BankoftentimesactsasremarketingagentfortheVRDBsand,atitsdiscretion,mayfromtime-to-timeown

someoftheVRDBswhilesuchinstrumentsareremarketed.Whenthisoccurs,theVRDBsareclassifiedas

tradingassetsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.Nevertheless,M&TBankisnotcontractually

obligatedtopurchasetheVRDBs.ThevalueofVRDBsintheCompany™stradingaccounttotaled

$40millionand$107millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.AtDecember31,2011and2010,

theVRDBsoutstandingbackedbyM&TBanklettersofcredittotaled$1.9billionand$2.0billion,

respectively.M&TBankalsoservesasremarketingagentformostofthosebonds.
75Table16
MATURITYDISTRIBUTIONOFSELECTEDLOANS(a)
December31,2011
Demand20122013-2016After2016
(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,etc.
......................$5,530,626$2,495,054$5,553,656$687,104
RealestateŠconstruction
......................384,908
1,483,2261,749,037194,509
Total......................................$5,915,534$3,978,280$7,302,693$881,613
Floatingoradjustableinterestrates
...............$5,156,210$482,671
Fixedorpredeterminedinterestrates
.............2,146,482398,942
Total......................................$7,302,692$881,613
(a)Thedatadonotincludenonaccrualloans.
TheCompanyentersintocontractualobligationsinthenormalcourseofbusinesswhichrequire
futurecashpayments.ThecontractualamountsandtimingofthosepaymentsasofDecember31,2011are
summarizedintable17.Off-balancesheetcommitmentstocustomersmayimpactliquidity,including

commitmentstoextendcredit,standbylettersofcredit,commerciallettersofcredit,financialguarantees

andindemnificationcontracts,andcommitmentstosellrealestateloans.Becausemanyofthese

commitmentsorcontractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenot

necessarilyindicativeoffuturecashflows.Furtherdiscussionofthesecommitmentsisprovidedinnote21

ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Table17summarizestheCompany™sothercommitmentsasof

December31,2011andthetimingoftheexpirationofsuchcommitments.
76Table17
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDOTHERCOMMITMENTS
December31,2011
LessThanOne
YearOnetoThree
YearsThreetoFive
YearsOverFive
YearsTotal(Inthousands)
Paymentsdueforcontractual
obligationsTimedeposits
...............$
4,433,005$1,339,617$317,632$17,276$6,107,530
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office....................35
5,927ŠŠŠ355,927
Federalfundspurchasedand
agreementstorepurchase
securities.................732,059ŠŠŠ732,059
Othershort-termborrowings..50,023ŠŠŠ50,023
Long-termborrowings
........1,671,734679,906808,9353,525,6516,686,226
Operatingleases
.............81,168138,85195,227128,505443,751
Other......................57,92040,56113,2569,994121,731
Total......................$7,
381,836$2,198,935$1,235,050$3,681,426$14,497,247
Othercommitments
Commitmentstoextend
credit....................$
8,321,918$4,616,772$3,899,525$3,305,864$20,144,079
Standbylettersofcredit
.......1,771,7051,416,914571,940169,7123,930,271
Commerciallettersofcredit
....20,99323,988ŠŠ44,981
Financialguaranteesand
indemnificationcontracts...55,297253,799329,9231,264,2351,903,254
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans....................628,3847,515ŠŠ635,899
Total......................$10,798,297$6,318,988$4,801,388$4,739,811$26,658,484
M&T™sprimarysourceoffundstopayforoperatingexpenses,shareholderdividendsandtreasury
stockrepurchaseshashistoricallybeenthereceiptofdividendsfromitsbankingsubsidiaries,whichare
subjecttovariousregulatorylimitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbythe

amountofearningsofthebankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandthetwoprecedingyears.Forpurposes

ofthetest,approximately$1.0billionatDecember31,2011wasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&T

frombankingsubsidiaries.Thesehistoricsourcesofcashflowhavebeenaugmentedinthepastbythe

issuanceoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandseniornotespayable.Informationregardingtrustpreferred

securitiesandtherelatedjuniorsubordinateddebenturesareincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.The$300millionof5.375%seniornotesofM&Tthatwereissuedin2007maturein2012.M&T

alsomaintainsa$30millionlineofcreditwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbank,ofwhichtherewereno

borrowingsoutstandingatDecember31,2011.Asimilar$30millionlineofcreditwasentirelyavailablefor

borrowingatDecember31,2010.
77Table18
MATURITYANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTYIELDOFINVESTMENTSECURITIES
December31,2011
OneYear
orLess
OnetoFive
YearsFivetoTen
YearsOverTen
YearsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale(a)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
Carryingvalue
........................................$
36,988$33,251$484$Š$70,723
Yield.................................................70%1.92%2.91%Š1.29%
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
........................................14,6937,9115,48912,17640,269
Yield................................................1.04%6.64%5.79%1.68%2.98%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
........................Carryingvalue
......................................238,394701,531838,2992,743,0094,521,233
Yield..............................................3.51%3.49%3.48%3.50%3.49%
Privatelyissuedresidential
..............................Carryingvalue
......................................30,361133,538185,329787,0281,136,256
Yield..............................................3.50%3.42%3.47%3.52%3.50%
Privatelyissuedcommercial
.............................Carryingvalue
......................................ŠŠŠ
15,02915,029
Yield..............................................ŠŠŠ
.22%.22%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................501
10,8158,648209,381229,345
Yield.................................................26%6.62%7.80%3.57%3.87%
Equitysecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................ŠŠŠŠ
215,705Yield................................................ŠŠŠŠ
.36%Totalinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
Carryingvalue
........................................320,937887,0461,038,2493,766,6236,228,560
Yield................................................3.06%3.49%3.52%3.49%3.36%
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
........................................29,13327,717129,1602,670188,680
Yield................................................4.30%5.63%5.43%24.24%5.55%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
........................Carryingvalue
......................................44,900165,991253,419144,223608,533
Yield..............................................3.09%3.09%3.09%3.09%3.09%
Privatelyissued
.......................................Carryingvalue
......................................21,53964,95085,48496,669268,642
Yield..............................................2.99%3.01%2.77%3.04%2.94%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................ŠŠŠ
11,85311,853
Yield................................................ŠŠŠ
5.08%5.08%
Totalinvestmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Carryingvalue
........................................95,572258,658468,063255,4151,077,708
Yield................................................3.44%3.34%3.68%3.38%3.51%
Otherinvestmentsecurities
................................ŠŠŠŠ
366,886Totalinvestmentsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................$416,509$1,145,7041,506,3124,022,0387,673,154
Yield................................................3.15%3.46%3.57%3.48%3.22%
(a)Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearepresentedatestimatedfairvalue.Yieldsonsuchsecuritiesarebasedon
amortizedcost.
(b)Maturitiesarereflectedbaseduponcontractualpaymentsdue.Actualmaturitiesareexpectedtobesignificantly
shorterasaresultofloanrepaymentsintheunderlyingmortgagepools.
78ManagementcloselymonitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositiononanongoingbasisforcompliance
withinternalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailablesourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfundingneeds
anticipatedinthenormalcourseofbusiness.Managementdoesnotanticipateengaginginanyactivities,

eithercurrentlyorinthelong-term,forwhichadequatefundingwouldnotbeavailableandwouldtherefore

resultinasignificantstrainonliquidityateitherM&Toritssubsidiarybanks.
Marketriskistheriskoflossfromadversechangesinthemarketpricesand/orinterestratesofthe
Company™sfinancialinstruments.TheprimarymarketrisktheCompanyisexposedtoisinterestraterisk.

InterestrateriskarisesfromtheCompany™scorebankingactivitiesoflendinganddeposit-taking,because

assetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamountsasinterestrateschange.Asaresult,

netinterestincomeearnedbytheCompanyissubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.TheCompany

measuresinterestrateriskbycalculatingthevariabilityofnetinterestincomeinfutureperiodsunder

variousinterestratescenariosusingprojectedbalancesforearningassets,interest-bearingliabilitiesand

derivativesusedtohedgeinterestraterisk.Management™sphilosophytowardinterestrateriskmanagement

istolimitthevariabilityofnetinterestincome.Thebalancesoffinancialinstrumentsusedintheprojections

arebasedonexpectedgrowthfromforecastedbusinessopportunities,anticipatedprepaymentsofloansand

investmentsecurities,andexpectedmaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities,loansanddeposits.Management

usesaﬁvalueofequityﬂmodeltosupplementthemodelingtechniquedescribedabove.Thosesupplemental

analysesarebasedondiscountedcashflowsassociatedwithon-andoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.

Suchanalysesaremodeledtoreflectchangesininterestratesandprovidemanagementwithalong-term

interestrateriskmetric.TheCompanyhasenteredintointerestrateswapagreementstohelpmanage

exposuretointerestraterisk.AtDecember31,2011,theaggregatenotionalamountofinterestrateswap

agreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposeswas$900million.Informationabout

interestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposesisincludedherein

undertheheadingﬁNetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivitiesﬂandinnote18ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
Table19
MATURITYOFDOMESTICCERTIFICATESOFDEPOSITANDTIMEDEPOSITS
WITHBALANCESOF$100,000ORMORE
December31,2011
(Inthousands)
Under3months
.............................................................$
435,0993to6months
...............................................................224,4876to12months
..............................................................340,231Over12months
.............................................................325,480Total....................................................................$1,325,297TheCompany™sRiskManagementCommittee,whichincludesmembersofseniormanagement,
monitorsthesensitivityoftheCompany™snetinterestincometochangesininterestrateswiththeaidofa
computermodelthatforecastsnetinterestincomeunderdifferentinterestratescenarios.Inmodeling

changinginterestrates,theCompanyconsidersdifferentyieldcurveshapesthatconsiderbothparallel(that

is,simultaneouschangesininterestratesateachpointontheyieldcurve)andnon-parallel(thatis,allowing

interestratesatpointsontheyieldcurvetovarybydifferentamounts)shiftsintheyieldcurve.Inutilizing

themodel,marketimpliedforwardinterestratesoverthesubsequenttwelvemonthsaregenerallyusedto

determineabaseinterestratescenarioforthenetinterestincomesimulation.Thatcalculatedbasenet

interestincomeisthencomparedtotheincomecalculatedunderthevaryinginterestratescenarios.The

modelconsiderstheimpactofongoinglendinganddeposit-gatheringactivities,aswellasinterrelationships

inthemagnitudeandtimingoftherepricingoffinancialinstruments,includingtheeffectofchanging

interestratesonexpectedprepaymentsandmaturities.Whendeemedprudent,managementhastaken

actionstomitigateexposuretointerestrateriskthroughtheuseofon-oroff-balancesheetfinancial

instrumentsandintendstodosointhefuture.Possibleactionsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,changesin

thepricingofloananddepositproducts,modifyingthecompositionofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities,andaddingto,modifyingorterminatingexistinginterestrateswapagreementsorotherfinancial

instrumentsusedforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes.
79Table20displaysasofDecember31,2011and2010theestimatedimpactonnetinterestincome
fromnon-tradingfinancialinstrumentsinthebasescenariodescribedaboveresultingfromparallelchanges
ininterestratesacrossrepricingcategoriesduringthefirstmodelingyear.
Table20
SENSITIVITYOFNETINTERESTINCOMETOCHANGESININTERESTRATES
CalculatedIncrease
(Decrease)inProjected
NetInterestIncome
December31
ChangesinInterestRates
20112010(Inthousands)
+200basispoints
.......................................................$117,826$67,255
+100basispoints
.......................................................64,10335,594
Œ100basispoints
.......................................................(62,055)(40,760)
Œ200basispoints
.......................................................(83,369)(61,720)
TheCompanyutilizedmanyassumptionstocalculatetheimpactthatchangesininterestratesmay
haveonnetinterestincome.Themoresignificantofthoseassumptionsincludedtherateofprepaymentsof
mortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsfromderivativeandotherfinancialinstrumentsheldfornon-trading

purposes,loananddepositvolumesandpricing,anddepositmaturities.Inthescenariospresented,the

Companyalsoassumedgradualchangesinratesduringatwelve-monthperiodof100and200basispoints,

ascomparedwiththeassumedbasescenario.Intheeventthata100or200basispointratechangecannot

beachieved,theapplicableratechangesarelimitedtolesseramountssuchthatinterestratescannotbeless

thanzero.Theassumptionsusedininterestratesensitivitymodelingareinherentlyuncertainand,asa

result,theCompanycannotpreciselypredicttheimpactofchangesininterestratesonnetinterestincome.

Actualresultsmaydiffersignificantlyfromthosepresentedduetothetiming,magnitudeandfrequencyof

changesininterestratesandchangesinmarketconditionsandinterestratedifferentials(spreads)between

maturity/repricingcategories,aswellasanyactions,suchasthosepreviouslydescribed,whichmanagement

maytaketocountersuchchanges.Thechangestoprojectednetinterestincomeresultingfromrising

interestratesatDecember31,2011ascomparedwithDecember31,2010werepredominantlyduetothe

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.Themostsignificantofthosechangesrelatedtotherisinginterestrate

scenariosandwerelargelyduetotheadditionofvariableratecommercialloansandcommercialrealestate

loansthathadbeenfundedbyWilmingtonTrustusingcoredepositsandfixedratebrokeredtimedeposits.

Inlightoftheuncertaintiesandassumptionsassociatedwiththeprocess,theamountspresentedinthetable

arenotconsideredsignificanttotheCompany™spastorprojectednetinterestincome.
Table21presentscumulativetotalsofnetassets(liabilities)repricingonacontractualbasiswithin
thespecifiedtimeframes,asadjustedfortheimpactofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposes.Managementbelievesthatthismeasuredoesnotappropriately

depictinterestraterisksincechangesininterestratesdonotnecessarilyaffectallcategoriesofearningassets

andinterest-bearingliabilitiesequallynor,asassumedinthetable,onthecontractualmaturityorrepricing

date.Furthermore,thisstaticpresentationofinterestrateriskfailstoconsidertheeffectofongoinglending

anddepositgatheringactivities,projectedchangesinbalancesheetcompositionoranysubsequentinterest

rateriskmanagementactivitiestheCompanyislikelytoimplement.
80Table21
CONTRACTUALREPRICINGDATA
December31,2011
ThreeMonths
orLess
FourtoTwelve
MonthsOneto
FiveYears
AfterFiveYears
Total(Dollarsinthousands)
Loansandleases,net
...........$33
,303,311$5,236,568$12,459,194$9,096,932$60,096,005
Investmentsecurities
..........1,423,396179,158235,0655,835,5357,673,154
Otherearningassets
...........256,796600100Š257,496
Totalearningassets
..........34,983,5035,416,32612,694,35914,932,46768,026,655
NOWaccounts
...............1,912,226ŠŠŠ1,912,226
Savingsdeposits
...............31,001,083ŠŠŠ31,001,083
Timedeposits
................1,536,2542,896,7511,657,24917,2766,107,530
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office.....................350,3015,626ŠŠ355,927
Totalinterest-bearing
deposits..................34,799,8642,902,3771,657,24917,27639,376,766
Short-termborrowings
.........782,082ŠŠŠ782,082
Long-termborrowings
.........1,652,710670,2101,485,7812,877,5256,686,226
Totalinterest-bearing
liabilities.................37,234,6563,572,5873,143,0302,894,80146,845,074
Interestrateswaps
.............(900,000)Š500,000400,000Š
Periodicgap
..................$
(3,151,153)$1,843,739$10,051,329$12,437,666
Cumulativegap
...............(3,151,153)(1,307,414)8,743,91521,181,581
Cumulativegapasa%oftotal
earningassets
...............(4.6)%(1.9)%12.9%31.1%
ChangesinfairvalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentscanalsoresultfromalackoftrading
activityforsimilarinstrumentsinthefinancialmarkets.Thatimpactismostnotableonthevaluesassigned
totheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities.Informationaboutthefairvaluationofsuchsecuritiesispresented

hereinundertheheadingﬁCapitalﬂandinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyengagesintradingactivitiestomeetthefinancialneedsofcustomers,tofundthe
Company™sobligationsundercertaindeferredcompensationplansand,toalimitedextent,toprofitfrom

perceivedmarketopportunities.Financialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesconsistpredominantlyof

interestratecontracts,suchasswapagreements,andforwardandfuturescontractsrelatedtoforeign

currencies,buthavealsoincludedforwardandfuturescontractsrelatedtomortgage-backedsecuritiesand

investmentsinU.S.Treasuryandothergovernmentsecurities,mortgage-backedsecuritiesandmutual

fundsand,aspreviouslydescribed,alimitednumberofVRDBs.TheCompanygenerallymitigatesthe

foreigncurrencyandinterestrateriskassociatedwithtradingactivitiesbyenteringintooffsettingtrading

positions.Thefairvaluesoftheoffsettingtradingpositionsassociatedwithinterestratecontractsand

foreigncurrencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsispresentedinnote18ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Theamountsofgrossandnettradingpositions,aswellasthetypeoftradingactivities

conductedbytheCompany,aresubjecttoawell-definedseriesofpotentiallossexposurelimitsestablished

bymanagementandapprovedbyM&T™sBoardofDirectors.However,aswithanynon-government

guaranteedfinancialinstrument,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterpartiestothe

Company™stradingactivities.
81Thenotionalamountsofinterestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated
$13.9billionatDecember31,2011and$12.8billionatDecember31,2010.Thenotionalamountsofforeign
currencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposestotaled$1.4billionand

$769millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Althoughthenotionalamountsofthesetrading

contractsarenotrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet,thefairvaluesofallfinancialinstrumentsused

fortradingactivitiesarerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thefairvaluesoftradingaccountassets

andliabilitieswere$562millionand$435million,respectively,atDecember31,2011and$524millionand

$333million,respectively,atDecember31,2010.IncludedintradingaccountassetsatDecember31,2011

and2010were$34millionand$35million,respectively,ofassetsrelatedtodeferredcompensationplans.

Changesinthefairvalueofsuchassetsarerecordedasﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂinthe

consolidatedstatementofincome.Includedinﬁotherliabilitiesﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheetat

December31,2011and2010were$32millionand$36million,respectively,ofliabilitiesrelatedtodeferred

compensationplans.Changesinthebalancesofsuchliabilitiesduetothevaluationofallocatedinvestment

optionstowhichtheliabilitiesareindexedarerecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.
GiventheCompany™spolicies,limitsandpositions,managementbelievesthatthepotentialloss
exposuretotheCompanyresultingfrommarketriskassociatedwithtradingactivitieswasnotmaterial,

however,aspreviouslynoted,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterpartiesto

transactionsassociatedwiththeCompany™stradingactivities.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™s

useofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinitstradingactivitiesisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.CapitalShareholders™equitywas$9.3billionatDecember31,2011andrepresented11.90%oftotalassets,

comparedwith$8.4billionor12.29%atDecember31,2010and$7.8billionor11.26%atDecember31,

2009.Includedinshareholders™equitywaspreferredstockwithfinancialstatementcarryingvaluesof$865
millionatDecember31,2011and$741millionatDecember31,2010.Thatpreferredstockbalanceincluded

$365millionand$714millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,forSeriesAandSeriesCFixed

RateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStockissuedtotheU.S.TreasuryaspartoftheTroubledAssetRelief

ProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgram.Theredemptionvalueofsuchpreferredstockwas$381.5million

and$751.5millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.TheSeriesApreferredstockandwarrants

toissueM&Tcommonstockwereissuedin2008for$600million.Duringthesecondquarterof2011,M&T

redeemed$370millionoftheSeriesApreferredstock.Thefinancialstatementvalueoftheoutstanding

SeriesApreferredstockwas$224millionatDecember31,2011and$579millionatDecember31,2010.The

SeriesCpreferredstockrepresentsa$151.5millionissuancetotheU.S.TreasurybyProvidentthatwas

convertedintoM&TpreferredstockandwarrantstopurchaseM&TcommonstockuponM&T™s

acquisitionofProvidentonMay23,2009.ThefinancialstatementcarryingvalueoftheSeriesCpreferred

stockwas$140millionatDecember31,2011and$135millionatDecember31,2010.TheSeriesAand

SeriesCpreferredstockpayquarterlycumulativecashdividendsof5%perannumforfiveyearsafterthe

initial2008issuancedatesand9%perannumthereafter.Thatpreferredstockisredeemableattheoptionof

M&T,subjecttoregulatoryapproval.M&Talsoobtainedanotherseriesofpreferredstockaspartofthe

Providentacquisitionthatwasconvertedto$26.5millionofM&TSeriesBMandatoryConvertible

Non-CumulativePreferredStock,liquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare.TheSeriesBpreferredstock

paidquarterlydividendsatarateof10%perannum.Inaccordancewiththeirterms,onApril1,2011,the

26,500sharesoftheSeriesBpreferredstockconvertedinto433,144sharesofM&Tcommonstock.Further

informationconcerningM&T™spreferredstockcanbefoundinnote10ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
OnMay31,2011,M&Tissued50,000sharesofanewseriesofPerpetual6.875%Non-Cumulative
PreferredStock,SeriesD,parvalue$1.00pershareandliquidationpreferenceof$10,000pershareinorder

tosupplementTier1Capital.HoldersofSeriesDpreferredstockareentitledtoreceive,onlywhen,asandif

declaredbytheBoardofDirectors,non-cumulativecashdividendsatanannualrateof6.875%,payable

semi-annuallyinarrears.TheSeriesDpreferredstockisredeemableonorafterJune15,2016inwholeorin

partatparplusanydeclaredbutunpaiddividends.Notwithstandingtheredemptionprovisionsnotedand

subjecttoregulatoryapproval,M&TmayredeemalloftheoutstandingsharesofSeriesDpreferredstockif

aregulatorycapitaltreatmenteventtakesplacewherebythefullliquidationvalueofthesharesnolonger

qualifiesasTier1Capital.
82Commonshareholders™equitywas$8.4billion,or$66.82pershare,atDecember31,2011,compared
with$7.6billion,or$63.54pershare,atDecember31,2010and$7.0billion,or$59.31pershare,at
December31,2009.Tangibleequitypercommonshare,whichexcludesgoodwillandcoredepositandother

intangibleassetsandapplicabledeferredtaxbalances,was$37.79atDecember31,2011,comparedwith

$33.26and$28.27atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.TheCompany™sratiooftangiblecommon

equitytotangibleassetswas6.40%atDecember31,2011,comparedwith6.19%and5.13%atDecember31,

2010andDecember31,2009,respectively.Reconciliationsoftotalcommonshareholders™equityand

tangiblecommonequityandtotalassetsandtangibleassetsasofDecember31,2011,2010and2009are

presentedintable2.During2011,2010and2009,theratioofaveragetotalshareholders™equitytoaverage

totalassetswas12.17%,11.85%and10.79%,respectively.Theratioofaveragecommonshareholders™equity

toaveragetotalassetswas11.09%,10.77%and9.81%in2011,2010and2009,respectively.
Shareholders™equityreflectsaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeorloss,whichincludesthe
netafter-taximpactofunrealizedgainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,

unrealizedlossesonheld-to-maturitysecuritiesforwhichanother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargehas

beenrecognized,gainsorlossesassociatedwithinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflow

hedges,foreigncurrencytranslationadjustmentsandadjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefined

benefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans.Netunrealizedlossesonavailable-for-saleinvestment

securities,netofapplicabletaxeffect,were$78million,or$.62percommonshare,atDecember31,2011,

comparedwithnetunrealizedlossesof$85million,or$.71percommonshare,atDecember31,2010,and

$220million,or$1.86percommonshare,atDecember31,2009.Suchunrealizedlossesrepresentthe

difference,netofapplicableincometaxeffect,betweentheestimatedfairvalueandamortizedcostof

investmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,includingtheremainingunamortizedunrealizedlosses

oninvestmentsecuritiesthathavebeentransferredtoheld-to-maturityclassification.Informationabout

unrealizedgainsandlossesasofDecember31,2011and2010isincludedinnote3ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.ReflectedinnetunrealizedlossesatDecember31,2011werepretax-effectunrealizedlossesof
$294milliononavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$1.6billionandpre-tax

effectunrealizedgainsof$210milliononsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$4.7billion.Thepre-taxeffect

unrealizedlossesreflect$239millionoflossesonprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithan

amortizedcostof$1.3billionandanestimatedfairvalueof$1.0billion(consideredLevel3valuations)and

$44millionoflossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionshavinganamortizedcostof

$189millionandanestimatedfairvalueof$145million(generallyconsideredLevel2valuations).
TheCompany™sprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale
aregenerallycollateralizedbyprimeandAlt-Aresidentialmortgageloansasdepictedintable22.

InformationinthetableisasofDecember31,2011.Aswithanyaccountingestimateorotherdata,changes

infairvaluesandinvestmentratingsmayoccuratanytime.
83Table22
PRIVATELYISSUEDMORTGAGE-BACKEDSECURITIESCLASSIFIEDASAVAILABLEFORSALE(a)
AsaPercentageofCarrying
ValueCollateralType
AmortizedCostFairValue
NetUnrealized
Gains(Losses)
AAARated
InvestmentGradeSeniorTrancheCreditEnhance-ment(b)
CurrentPaymentStatus(c)
(Dollarsinthousands)
InvestmentSecurities
AvailableforSale:
ResidentialMortgageLoans
PrimeŠFixed
...........$
59,614$64,289$4,67543%64%99%5%97%
PrimeŠHybridARMs
....1,164,764971,088(193,676)Š3695779
Alt-AŠHybridARMs
.....132,06289,168(42,894)Š1389988
Other...................12,93111,711(1,220)ŠŠ702487
Subtotal.............1,369,3711,136,256(233,115)2%35%95%7%81%
CommercialMortgage
Loans.................17,67915,029(2,650)23%100%100%100%100%
TotalInvestmentSecurities
AvailableforSale
........1,387,0501,151,285(235,765)3%36%95%8%81%
InvestmentSecuritesHeldto
Maturity:..............ResidentialandCommercial
MortgageLoans
.........268,642169,502(99,140)37%37%88%22%100%
Total...............$1,655,692$1,320,787$(334,905)7%36%94%11%84%
(a)AllinformationisasofDecember31,2011.
(b)Weighted-averagecreditenhancementiscalculatedbydividingtheremainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofbonds
subordinatetothebondsownedbytheCompanyplusanyovercollateralizationremaininginthesecuritization
structurebytheremainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofallbondsinthesecuritizationstructure.
(c)Representspercentageofamortizedcostrelatedtobondsforwhichthefullamountofallcontractuallyrequired
principalandinterestpaymentsexpectedatacquisitioncontinuetobereceived.
84Reflectingthecreditstressassociatedwithresidentialmortgageloans,tradingactivityforprivatelyissued
mortgage-backedsecuritieshasbeendramaticallyreduced.Inestimatingvaluesforsuchsecurities,theCompany
wassignificantlyrestrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsusedinthevaluationofitsprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesportfolio.Becauseof
thereducedactivityandlackofobservablevaluation
inputs,theCompanyconsiderstheestimatedfairvalueassociatedwithitsholdingsofprivatelyissuedmortgage-

backedsecuritiestobeLevel3valuations.Toassistinthedeterminationoffairvalueforitsprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyengagedtwoindependentpricingsourcesatDecember31,2011and

2010.GAAPprovidesguidanceforestimatingfairvaluewhenthevolumeandleveloftradingactivityforanasset

orliabilityhavesignificantlydecreased.Inconsiderationofthatguidance,theCompanyperformedinternal

modelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswith

anamortizedcostbasisof$1.3billionatDecember31,2011and$1.5billionatDecember31,2010.The

Company™sinternalmodelingtechniquesincludeddis
countingestimatedbond-specificcashflowsusing
assumptionsaboutcashflowsassociatedwithloansunderlyingeachofthebonds.Inestimatingthosecashflows,

theCompanyusedconservativeassumptionsastofuturedelinquency,defaultandlossratesinordertomitigate

exposurethatmightbeattributabletotheriskthatactualfuturecreditlossescouldexceedassumedcreditlosses.

Differencesbetweeninternalmodelvaluationsandextern
alpricingindicationsweregenerallyconsideredtobe
reflectiveofthelackofliquidityinthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Todeterminethe

mostrepresentativefairvalueforthosebondsundercurrentmarketconditions,theCompanycomputedvalues

basedonjudgmentallyappliedweightingsoftheinternalmodelvaluationsandtheindicationsobtainedfromthe

averageofthetwoindependentpricingsources.Theaverageweightplacedoninternalmodelvaluationsat

December31,2011was34%,comparedwitha66%weightingonvaluationsprovidedbytheindependent

sources.FurtherinformationconcerningtheCompan
y™svaluationsofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed
securitiescanbefoundinnote20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
During2011theCompanyrecognized$77million(pre-tax)ofother-than-temporaryimpairment
lossesincluding$65millionrelatedtoprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesand$12million

relatedtocommercialmortgage-backedCMOs.Inassessingimpairmentlossesfordebtsecurities,the

Companyperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflows,whichconsideredtheplacement

ofthebondintheoverallsecuritizationstructureandtheremaininglevelsofsubordination.
Forprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,themodelutilizedassumptionsaboutthe
underlyingperformanceofthemortgageloancollateralconsideringrecentcollateralperformanceandfuture

assumptionsregardingdefaultandlossseverity.AtDecember31,2011,projectedmodeldefaultpercentageson

theunderlyingmortgageloancollateralrangedfrom2%to36%andlossseveritiesrangedfrom27%to78%.

ForbondsinwhichtheCompanyhasrecognizedanother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharge,theweighted-

averagepercentageofdefaultcollateralwas23%andtheweighted-averagelossseveritywas51%.Forbonds

withoutother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,theweighted-averagedefaultpercentageandlossseverity

were12%and41%,respectively.Underlyingmortgageloancollateralcashflows,afterconsideringtheimpact

ofestimatedcreditlosses,weredistributedbythemodeltothevarioussecuritieswithinthesecuritization

structuretodeterminethetimingandextentoflossesatthebond-level,ifany.Despitecontinuinghighlevels

ofdelinquenciesandlossesintheunderlyingresidentialmortgageloancollateral,givencreditenhancements

resultingfromthestructuresofindividualbonds,theCompanyhasconcludedthatasofDecember31,2011its

remainingprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswerenotother-than-temporarilyimpaired.

Nevertheless,givenrecentmarketconditions,itispossiblethatadversechangesinrepaymentperformanceand

fairvaluecouldoccurin2012andlateryearsthatcouldimpacttheCompany™sconclusions.Forexample,a

10%increaseintheestimateddefaultrateassumptionanda10%increaseintheseverityrateassumption

wouldhaveincreasedtheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerecognizedbytheCompanyfortheyear

endedDecember31,2011by$36million.Managementhasmodeledcashflowsfromprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecuritiesundervariousscenariosandhasconcludedthatevenifhomepricedepreciation

andcurrentdelinquencytrendspersistforanextendedperiodoftime,theCompany™sprincipallossesonits

privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswouldbesubs
tantiallylessthantheircurrentfairvaluationlosses.
Informationcomparingtheamortizedcostandfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedinnote3of

NotestoFinancialStatements.TheCompany™smodelasdescribedaboveusesprojecteddefaultandloss

severityassumptions.Informationonthecurrentcreditenhancementandcurrentpaymentstatusofprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesatDecember31,2011isincludedintable22.
85Similartoitsevaluationofavailable-for-saleprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompany
assessedimpairmentlossesonprivatelyissuedCMOsintheheld-to-maturityportfoliobyperforminginternal
modelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflows,whichconsideredtheplacementofthebondintheoverall

securitizationstructureandtheremainingsubordinationlevels.Asaresultofitsassessment,theCompany

recognized$12millionofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOsinthe

held-to-maturityportfolioduring2011.Intotal,atDecember31,2011and2010,theCompanyhadinits

held-to-maturityportfolioprivatelyissuedCMOswithanamortizedcostbasisof$269millionand$313

million,respectively,andafairvalueof$170millionand$198million,respectively.
AtDecember31,2011,theCompanyalsohadnetpre-taxunrealizedlossesof$31millionon
$229millionoftrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,securitiesbackedbytrustpreferred

securities,andotherdebtsecurities(reflecting$9millionofunrealizedgainson$52millionofsecuritiesusing

aLevel3valuation).Netpre-taxunrealizedgainsof$5millionexistedon$410millionofsuchsecuritiesat

December31,2010.AfterevaluatingtheexpectedrepaymentperformanceofthosebondstheCompanydid

notrecognizeanyother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtothosesecuritiesduring2011.
Aspreviouslydescribed,during2010theCompanyrecognized$86million(pre-tax)ofother-than-
temporarylosses,including$63millionrelatedtoprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,

$6millionrelatedtosecuritiesbackedlargelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,$5

millionrelatedtocommercialmortgage-backedCMOsand$12millionrelatedtoAIBADSs.During2009

theCompanyrecognized$138million(pre-tax)ofother-than-temporarylosses,including$128millionof

whichrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesand$10millionrelatedtosecuritiesbacked

largelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions.
AsofDecember31,2011,basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesintheinvestment
securitiesportfolio,theCompanyconcludedthatthedeclinesinthevaluesofthosesecuritieswere

temporaryandthatanyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeswerenotappropriate.Asof

thatdate,theCompanydidnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredtosellanyofits

impairedsecurities,thatis,wherefairvalueislessthanthecostbasisofthesecurity.TheCompanyintends

tocontinuetocloselymonitortheperformanceoftheprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandother

securitiesbecausechangesintheirunderlyingcreditperformanceorothereventscouldcausethecostbasis

ofthosesecuritiestobecomeother-than-temporarilyimpaired.However,becausetheunrealizedlosseson

available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavegenerallyalreadybeenreflectedinthefinancialstatementvalues

forinvestmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity,anyrecognitionofanother-than-temporarydeclinein

valueofthoseinvestmentsecuritieswouldnothaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sconsolidated

financialcondition.Anyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoheld-to-maturity

securitieswouldresultinreductionsinthefinancialstatementvaluesforinvestmentsecuritiesand

shareholders™equity.AdditionalinformationconcerningfairvaluemeasurementsandtheCompany™s

approachtotheclassificationofsuchmeasurementsisincludedinnote20oftheNotestoFinancial

Statements.Adjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans,
netofapplicabletaxeffect,reducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby$278million,or$2.21per

commonshare,atDecember31,2011,$121million,or$1.01percommonshare,atDecember31,2010,and

$117million,or$.99percommonshare,atDecember31,2009.Theincreaseinsuchadjustmentat

December31,2011ascomparedwithDecember31,2010waspredominantlytheresultofa100basispoint

reductioninthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefinedbenefitplansat

December31,2011ascomparedwithayearearlierandactualinvestmentreturnsinthequalifieddefined

benefitpensionplanthatwerelessthanexpectedreturns.Informationaboutthefundedstatusofthe

Company™spensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansisincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.CashdividendsdeclaredonM&T™scommonstocktotaled$350millionin2011,comparedwith
$336millionand$327millionin2010and2009,respectively.Dividendspercommonsharetotaled$2.80in

eachof2011,2010and2009.During2011,cashdividendsof$28million,or$50.00pershare,weredeclared

andpaidtotheU.S.TreasuryonM&T™sSeriesA($20million)andSeriesC($8million)PreferredStock.

Similardividendsof$38millionand$31millionweredeclaredandpaidin2010and2009,respectively.

Cashdividendsof$1million,$3millionand$1million($41.67pershare,$100.00pershareand$50.00per

share)weredeclaredandpaidduring2011,2010and2009,respectively,onM&T™sSeriesBPreferredStock.

Cashdividendsof$19million($372.40share)weredeclaredandpaidduring2011onM&T™sSeriesD

Non-CumulativePreferredStock.
86TheCompanydidnotrepurchaseanyofitscommonstockin2011,2010or2009.
FederalregulatorsgenerallyrequirebankinginstitutionstomaintainﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁtotal
capitalﬂratiosofatleast4%and8%,respectively,ofrisk-adjustedtotalassets.Inadditiontotherisk-based

measures,Federalbankregulatorshavealsoimplementedaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioguidelineof3%of

thequarterlyaverageoftotalassets.AtDecember31,2011,Tier1capitalincluded$1.1billionoftrust

preferredsecuritiesasdescribedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandtotalcapitalfurtherincluded

$1.7billionofsubordinatedcapitalnotes.PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbe

phased-outofthedefinitionofTier1capitalofbankholdingcompanies.ThecapitalratiosoftheCompany

anditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,2011and2010arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.FourthQuarterResults
Netincomeduringthefourthquarterof2011declined28%to$148millionfrom$204millionintheyear-

earlierquarter.Dilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewereeach$1.04inthefinal2011quarter,35%

below$1.59ofdilutedandbasicearningspercommonshareinthecorrespondingquarterof2010.Onan

annualizedbasis,theratesofreturnonaverageassetsandaveragecommonshareholders™equityforthe

recentlycompletedquarterwere.75%and6.12%,respectively,comparedwith1.18%and10.03%,

respectively,inthefourthquarterof2010.
Netoperatingincometotaled$168millionintherecentquarter,comparedwith$196millioninthe
fourthquarterof2010.Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$1.20inthefourthquarter

of2011,comparedwith$1.52intheyear-earlierquarter.Theannualizednetoperatingreturnsonaverage

tangibleassetsandaveragetangiblecommonequityinthefinalquarterof2011were.89%and12.36%,

respectively,comparedwith1.20%and18.43%,respectively,inthecorrespondingquarterof2010.Core

depositandotherintangibleassetamortization,aftertaxeffect,totaled$10millionand$8millioninthe

fourthquartersof2011and2010($.08and$.07perdilutedcommonshare),respectively.Theafter-tax

impactofmerger-relatedexpensesassociatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitionwas$10million

($16millionpre-tax)or$.08ofdilutedearningspercommonshareinthefourthquarterof2011.The

after-taximpactofmerger-relatedexpensesandthegainassociatedwiththeKBankacquisitiontransaction

totaledtoanetgainof$16million($27millionpre-tax)or$.14ofdilutedearningspercommonsharein

thelastquarterof2010.ReconciliationsofGAAPresultswithnon-GAAPresultsforthequarterlyperiodsof

2011and2010areprovidedintable24.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomerose8%to$625millionintherecentquarterfrom
$580millioninthefourthquarterof2010.Thatgrowthreflectsa15%increaseinaverageearningassets

partiallyoffsetbya25basispointnarrowingoftheCompany™snetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetsin

thefourthquarterof2011totaled$68.8billion,upfrom$59.7billionintheyear-earlierquarter.That

growthresultedfromhigheraverageloansandleases,whichrose16%to$59.1billionintherecentquarter

from$51.1billionin2010™sfinalquarter,andhigherinterest-bearingdepositsatbanks,predominantly

balancesheldattheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.Averagecommercialloanandleasebalanceswere

$15.4billionintherecentquarter,up$2.4billionor18%from$13.0billioninthefourthquarterof2010.

Commercialrealestateloansaveraged$24.1billioninthefourthquarterof2011,up$3.5billionfrom$20.6

billionintheyear-earlierquarter.Averageresidentialrealestateloansoutstandingrose27%or$1.6billion

to$7.5billionintherecentquarterfrom$5.9billioninthefourthquarterof2010.Includedinthe

residentialrealestateloanportfoliowereloansheldforsale,whichaveraged$233millionand$556million

inthefourthquartersof2011and2010,respectively.Consumerloansaveraged$12.1billionintherecent

quarter,up$503million,or4%,from$11.6billioninthefinal2010quarter.Themostsignificantfactorfor

thegrowthinaverageloansoutstandingintherecentquarterascomparedwiththefourthquarterof2010

wastheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.LoansassociatedwithWilmingtonTrusttotaled$6.4billiononthe

May16,2011acquisitiondate,consistingofapproximately$1.4billionofcommercialloansandleases,$3.2

billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$680millionofresidentialrealestateloansand$1.1billionof

consumerloans.Alsocontributingtotheriseinaverageresidentialrealestateloanswastheimpactofthe

CompanyretainingforportfolioalargeportionofloansoriginatedsinceOctober1,2010.Totalloans

increased$1.7billionto$60.1billionatDecember31,2011from$58.4billionatSeptember30,2011.That

growthwaslargelyattributabletoincreasesincommercialloans,commercialrealestateloansand

residentialrealestateloans.Theyieldonearningassetsdeclinedto4.17%inthefourthquarterof2011from

4.58%intheyear-earlierquarter.Theratepaidoninterest-bearingliabilitiesdeclined15basispointsto

.82%intherecentlycompletedquarterfrom.97%inthesimilar2010quarter.Theresultingnetinterest
87spreadwas3.35%inthefourthquarterof2011,down26basispointsfrom3.61%inthefinalquarterof
2010.Thatdeclinewaslargelyduetolowerinterestratesearnedonloansandinvestmentsecurities.The

contributionofnetinterest-freefundstotheCompany™snetinterestmarginwas.25%intherecentquarter,

comparedwith.24%intheyear-earlierquarter.Asaresult,theCompany™snetinterestmarginnarrowedto

3.60%inthefinal2011quarterfrom3.85%inthecorresponding2010quarter.
Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$74millioninthethree-monthperiodendedDecember31,2011,
comparedwith$85millionintheyear-earlierperiod.Netcharge-offsofloanswere$74millioninthefinal

quarterof2011,representinganannualized.50%ofaverageloansandleasesoutstanding,comparedwith

$77millionor.60%duringthefourthquarterof2010.Netcharge-offsincluded:residentialrealestateloans

of$13millionintherecentlycompletedquarter,comparedwith$15millionayearearlier;loanstobuilders

anddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesof$25million,comparedwith$22millioninthefourth

quarterof2010;othercommercialrealestateloansof$2million,comparedwith$13millionayearearlier;

commercialloansof$11million,comparedwith$5millionin2010;andconsumerloansof$23million,

comparedwith$22millionintheprioryear™sfourthquarter.
Otherincomeaggregated$398millionintherecentquarter,up39%from$287millionintheyear-
earlierquarter.Netlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges)

were$25millionduringthefourthquarterof2011,comparedwith$27millionintheyear-earlierquarter.

Thelosseswerepredominantlyduetoother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtocertainofthe

Company™sprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Otherincomeinthefourthquarterof2011

includedthe$55millionlitigationsettlementrelatedtotheCompany™spurchaseofcertainCDOsduring

2007.Reflectedinotherincomeforthefourthquarterof2010wasthe$28milliongainrecordedontheK

Bankacquisitiontransaction.Excludingnetlossesoninvestmentsecurities,theCDOlitigationsettlement

andthemerger-relatedgainfromtherespectivequarters,otherincomewas$368millionduring2011™s

fourthquarter,up29%from$286millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Themostsignificantcontributorto

theriseinotherincomewashighertrustincomeof$83million,whichwastheresultoftheWilmington

Trustacquisition.Alsocontributingtotheimprovementwerehigherresidentialmortgagebanking

revenues,duetoincreasedservicingfees,andmerchantdiscountandcreditcardfees.Thosepositivefactors

werepartiallyoffsetbydeclinesinfeesforprovidingconsumerdepositaccountservices,resultingfromthe

DurbinAmendmenttotheDodd-FrankAct,andtradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
Otherexpenseinthefourthquarterof2011totaled$740million,comparedwith$469millioninthe
year-earlierquarter.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature

consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$17millionand$13millioninthe

finalquartersof2011and2010,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$16millionand$771thousand

inthethree-monthperiodsendedDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Exclusiveofthose

nonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpenseswere$706millioninthefourthquarterof2011,

comparedwith$455millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Themostsignificantfactorsforthehigherlevelof

operatingexpensesintherecentquarterascomparedwiththefourthquarterof2010weretheimpactofthe

operationsobtainedintheMay16,2011WilmingtonTrustacquisition,thepreviouslynoted$79million

impairmentchargerelatedtoBLG,the$30millioncharitablecontributionandanincreaseinFDIC

assessmentsthatwaslargelyattributabletoaregulatorymandatedchangeintheassessmentmethodology.

TheCompany™sefficiencyratioduringthefourthquarterof2011and2010was67.4%and52.5%,

respectively.Table24includesareconciliationofotherexpensetononinterestoperatingexpenseandthe

calculationoftheefficiencyratioforeachofthequartersof2011and2010.
SegmentInformation
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompany™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponits

internalprofitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategic

businessunitshavebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureofthe

productsandservices,thetypeofcustomer,andthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.

ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,

DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentswascompiledutilizingtheaccountingpolicies
describedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocesses

utilizedincompilingsegmentfinancialinformationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,

arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidancesimilartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentsandthefinancial

informationofthereportedsegmentsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilarinformationreportedby
88otherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureorallocationmethodologies
andproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.Financialinformationaboutthe

Company™ssegmentsispresentedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofservicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionals
throughtheCompany™sbranchnetwork,businessbankingcentersandotherdeliverychannelssuchas

telephonebanking,InternetbankingandautomatedtellermachineswithinmarketsservedbytheCompany.

Servicesandproductsofferedbythissegmentincludevariousbusinessloansandleases,includingloans

guaranteedbytheSmallBusinessAdministration,businesscreditcards,depositproducts,andfinancial

servicessuchascashmanagement,payrollanddirectdeposit,merchantcreditcardandlettersofcredit.Net

incomefortheBusinessBankingsegmentimproved24%to$123millionin2011from$99millionin2010.

Thatincreasereflectsa$29milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultoflowernetcharge-

offsofloans,andhighernetinterestincomeof$19millionthatresultedfromincreasesof$1.1billionand

$358millionintheaveragebalancesofdepositsandloans,respectively,includingtheimpactofthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition.Theeffectofhigheraveragebalanceswasoffset,inpart,bya39basispoint

narrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.NetincomecontributedbytheBusinessBankingsegment

totaled$124millionin2009.The21%declineinnetincomein2010ascomparedwith2009was

predominantlyduetoa$33millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultofincreasednet

charge-offsofloans.
TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsandbankingservicesfor
middle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsservedbytheCompany.

Servicesprovidedbythissegmentincludecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersofcredit,deposit

products,andcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialBankingsegmentearned$369millionin2011,

up18%from$314millionin2010.Theincreaseinnetincomein2011ascomparedwith2010reflectsa$73

millionriseinnetinterestincomelargelyduetohigheraverageloananddepositbalancesof$2.2billionand

$1.7billion,respectively,(includingtheimpactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition)partiallyoffsetbya19

basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondepositbalances.Alsocontributingtothehighernet

incomewerean$18milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultoflowernetcharge-offsof

loans,andhighercredit-relatedfeesof$15million,includingfeesearnedforprovidingloansyndication

services.Partiallyoffsettingthosefavorablefactorswereincreasedpersonnelcostsof$8millionandhigher

FDICassessmentsof$6million.NetincomefortheCommercialBankingsegmenttotaled$239millionin

2009.The31%increaseinnetincomein2010ascomparedwith2009wasduetoa$60millionreductionin

theprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultoflowernetloancharge-offs,aswellasa$51millionriseinnet

interestincome,duetoa$2.0billionincreaseinaveragedepositbalancesanda26basispointwideningof

thenetinterestmarginonloans.
TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovidescreditanddepositservicestoitscustomers.Realestate
securingloansinthissegmentisgenerallylocatedintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanarea,upstateNew

York,Pennsylvania,Maryland,theDistrictofColumbia,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andthe

northwesternportionoftheUnitedStates.Commercialrealestateloansmaybesecuredbyapartment/

multifamilybuildings;office,retailandindustrialspace;orothertypesofcollateral.Activitiesofthis

segmentalsoincludetheorigination,salesandservicingofcommercialrealestateloansthroughtheFannie

MaeDUSprogramandotherprograms.NetincomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegmentimproved

18%to$240millionin2011from$203millionin2010.Thatincreasereflectsahighernetinterestincome

of$84million,duetoincreasesof$1.8billionand$488millionofaverageloananddepositbalances,

respectively,(includingtheimpactoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition)anda22basispointwideningof

thenetinterestmarginonloans,aswellasa$16milliondeclineinnetforeclosure-relatedexpenses.Partially

offsettingthosefavorablefactorswerehigherFDICassessmentsof$23million,a$13millionincreaseinthe

provisionforcreditlosses,theresultofhighernetcharge-offsofloans,andincreasedpersonnelcostsof$8

million.NetincomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegmentin2010rose31%from$155millionin2009.

Thatimprovementcanbeattributedtothefollowingfactors:a$39milliondeclineintheprovisionfor

creditlosses,theresultoflowernetcharge-offsofloans;a$38millionincreaseinnetinterestincome;and

higherrevenuesfrommortgagebankingactivitiesof$13million,theresultofincreasedloanoriginationand

salesactivities.Theriseinnetinterestincomewasattributabletoa28basispointexpansionofthenet

interestmarginonloansandincreasesinaveragedepositandloanbalancesof$430millionand$249

million,respectively,partiallyoffsetbya57basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.
TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludesinvestmentandtradingsecurities,residentialmortgage
loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdepositand
89interestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsbranchdeposits.Thissegmentalso
providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.IncludedintheassetsoftheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segmentaremostoftheinvestmentsecuritiesforwhichtheCompanyhasrecognizedother-than-temporary

impairmentchargesineachofthelastthreeyearsandtheportfolioofAlt-Amortgageloans.Netincomefor

theDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmenttotaled$59millionin2011,comparedwithnetlossesof$39million

and$28millionin2010and2009,respectively.Includedinthissegment™srecentyearresultswere$149

millionofnetrealizedgainsonthesaleofinvestmentsecurities,predominantlycomprisedofresidential

mortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbyFannieMaeandFreddieMac,CDOsandtrustpreferred

securities.Partiallyoffsettingthoserealizedgainswereother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$77

millionrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOs.Similarimpairmentchargesof$74millionin2010and$138

millionin2009werepredominantlyrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOs.Excludingsecuritiesgainsandlosses,

netincomeforthesegmenttotaled$16millionin2011,$5millionin2010and$53millionin2009.The

favorableperformancein2011ascomparedwith2010canbeattributedtoa$40millionriseinnetinterest

income,mainlyduetoa39basispointexpansionofthenetinterestmarginoninvestmentsecurities,offset,

inpart,bya$12millionincreaseinintersegmentcostsrelatedtoahigherproportionofresidentialreal

estateloansbeingretainedforportfolioin2011.Thedeclinein2010fromtheyearpriorreflectsa$114

milliondecreaseinnetinterestincome,resultingfroma42basispointnarrowingofthissegment™snet

interestmargin,partiallyoffsetbyadeclineintheprovisionforcreditlossesof$27million,theresultof

lowernetcharge-offsofloans.
TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialmortgageloansand
sellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segment.Thissegmentalsooriginatedloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties,althoughthat

originationactivityhasbeensignificantlycurtailed.Inadditiontothegeographicregionsservedbyor

contiguouswiththeCompany™sbranchnetwork,theCompanymaintainsmortgageloanoriginationoffices

inseveralstatesthroughoutthewesternUnitedStates.TheCompanyalsoperiodicallypurchasestherights

toservicemortgageloans.Residentialmortgageloansheldforsaleareincludedinthissegment.The

ResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentrecordednetincomeof$13millionin2011,up18%from$11

millionin2010.Thatincreasereflectsa$13milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultof

lowernetcharge-offsofloans,partiallyoffsetbyan$8milliondeclineinnetinterestincome,theresultofa

$181milliondecreaseinaverageloanbalances.TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentincurredanet

lossof$13millionin2009.Theimprovementinthissegment™sresultsin2010ascomparedwith2009was

attributableto:a$49milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultoflowernetcharge-offsof

loanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate;decreasedforeclosure-relatedexpensesof$20

million,theresultofdecliningvaluesoncertainpreviouslyforeclosed-uponresidentialrealestate

developmentprojectsin2009;andlowerpersonnel-relatedexpensesof$8million.Thosefavorablefactors

werepartiallyoffsetbya$16millionpartialreversalofthecapitalizedmortgageservicingrightsvaluation

allowancein2009(ascomparedwithnochangeinsuchallowancein2010)anda$19milliondeclinein

revenuesrelatingtoresidentialmortgageoriginationandsalesactivities,reflectinglowerorigination

volumesandincreasedsettlementsrelatedtotheCompany™sobligationtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloans.
TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldelivery
channelswhichincludebranchoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.

TheCompanyhasbranchofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,theDistrictof

Columbia,WestVirginiaandDelaware.TheRetailBankingsegmentalsoofferscertaindepositproductson

anationwidebasisthroughthedeliverychannelsofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Creditservicesofferedbythis

segmentincludeconsumerinstallmentloans,automobileloans(originatedbothdirectlyandindirectly

throughdealers),homeequityloansandlinesofcreditandcreditcards.Thesegmentalsoofferstoits

customersdepositproducts,includingdemand,savingsandtimeaccounts;investmentproducts,including

mutualfundsandannuities;andotherservices.TheRetailBankingsegment™snetincomedeclined11%to

$200millionin2011from$225millionin2010.Themostsignificantfactorscontributingtothedecline

werelowerfeesearnedforprovidingdepositaccountservicesof$25million(reflectingthepreviously

describedregulatorychangesin2010and2011offset,inpart,byfeesof$13millionfromdepositsassociated

withtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition),higherpersonnel-relatedcostsof$20million(alsoreflectingthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition),andincreasedothernoninterestexpensestotaling$15million(including

highercreditcard,merchantcostsandtransactionprocessing-relatedcosts,eachdue,inpart,tothe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition),partiallyoffsetbynetinterestincomerelatedtotheWilmingtonTrust

acquisition.Netincomeearnedbythissegmentdeclined5%in2010from$237millionin2009.That
90declinereflectsa$39milliondecreaseinnetinterestincome,theresultofa25basispointnarrowingofthe
netinterestmarginondeposits,andanincreaseinnetoccupancyexpensesof$8million.Partiallyoffsetting

thoseunfavorablefactorswerea$21milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,reflectinglowernet

charge-offofloans,reducedFDICassessmentsof$7million,andhigherfeesearnedforprovidingdeposit

accountservicesof$5million.
TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryreflectsotheractivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributableto
thereportedsegments.Reflectedinthiscategoryaretheamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assetsresultingfromtheacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions,M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLG,

merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitionsandthenetimpactoftheCompany™s

allocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearning

assetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcredit

losses.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryalsoincludestheCCSandWASactivitiesobtainedintheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrustonMay16,2011andthepre-acquisitiontrustactivitiesoftheCompany.Asof

December31,2011thoseactivitieswerebeingoperatedasseparatebusinesslines.RevenuesforCCS,WAS

andthenonWilmingtonTrust-relatedtrustactivitieswere$119million,$87millionand$116millionfor

theyearendedDecember31,2011.Individuallyandcombinedthenetincomeofthoseactivitiesdidnot

exceed10%oftheCompany™snetincomeintherecentyear.ThevariouscomponentsoftheﬁAllOtherﬂ

categoryresultedinnetlossesof$145million,$78millionand$335millionin2011,2010and2009,

respectively.Contributingmosttotheunfavorableperformancein2011ascomparedwith2010werethe

followingincreasedexpenses,eachlargelyrelatedtotheWilmingtonTrustacquisition:a$150millionrisein

personnelcosts($148millionrelatedtotheWilmingtonTrustacquisition);increasedequipmentandnet

occupancyexpensesof$25million;andmerger-relatedexpensesof$84million.Additionalfactors

contributingtotheunfavorableperformancewere:the$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairment

chargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBLG;the$30millioncashcontributionM&TmadetoThe

M&TCharitableFoundationinthefourthquarterof2011;andtheunfavorableimpactfromtheCompany™s

allocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearning

assetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcredit

losses.Partlyoffsettingthoseunfavorableitemswerehighertrustrevenuesof$210million(reflectingthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition),the$65millionnon-taxablegainontheWilmingtonacquisitionrecordedin

2011ascomparedwithnettaxablemerger-relatedgainsof$27millionin2010,andthe$55millionCDO

litigationsettlementreceivedinthefourthquarterof2011.Ascomparedwith2009,theimproved

performancein2010waslargelyduetothefavorableimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologies

forinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlossesandthe$27millionnet

merger-relatedgainin2010,comparedwithnetmerger-relatedexpensesin2009totaling$60million.
RecentAccountingDevelopments
InDecember2011,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)issuedamendeddisclosure

guidancerelatingtooffsettingassetsandliabilities.Theamendmentsrequiredisclosureofgrossandnet

informationaboutinstrumentsandtransactionseligibleforoffsetinthestatementoffinancialpositionand

instrumentsandtransactionssubjecttoanagreementsimilartoamasternettingarrangement.Thescopeof

thisguidanceincludesderivatives,saleandrepurchaseagreementsandreversesaleandrepurchase

agreements,andsecuritiesborrowingandsecuritieslendingarrangements.Theguidanceiseffectivefor

annualreportingperiodsbeginningonorafterJanuary1,2013,andinterimperiodswithinthoseannual

periods.Thenewrequireddisclosuresshouldbeappliedretrospectivelyforallcomparableperiods

presented.TheCompanyintendstocomplywiththenewdisclosureguidance.
InSeptember2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotestinggoodwillfor
impairment.Theamendmentsprovidetheoptiontofirstassessqualitativefactorstodeterminewhetherthe

existenceofeventsorcircumstancesleadstoadeterminationthatitismorelikelythannotthatthefair

valueofareportingunitislessthanitscarryingamount.If,afterassessingthetotalityofeventsor

circumstances,anentitydeterminesitisnotmorelikelythannotthatthefairvalueofareportingunitisless

thanitscarryingamount,thenperformingthetwo-stepimpairmenttestisunnecessary.Theoptional

guidanceiseffectiveforannualandinterimgoodwillimpairmenttestsperformedforfiscalyearsbeginning

afterDecember15,2011,withearlyadoptionpermitted.TheCompanydidnotearlyadopttheoptional

accountingguidanceforitsgoodwillimpairmenttestasofOctober1,2011anddoesnotexpecttheguidance

tohaveanimpactonitsfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
91InJune2011,theFASBissuedamendedpresentationguidancerelatingtocomprehensiveincome.
Theamendmentseliminatetheoptiontopresentthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincomeaspartof
thestatementofchangesinshareholders™equityandnowrequirethepresentationoftotalcomprehensive

income,thecomponentsofnetincome,andthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincomeeitherina

singlecontinuousstatementofcomprehensiveincomeorintwoseparatebutconsecutivestatements.In

bothoptions,anentityisrequiredtopresenteachcomponentofnetincomealongwithtotalnetincome,

eachcomponentofothercomprehensiveincomealongwithatotalforothercomprehensiveincome,anda

totalamountforcomprehensiveincome.Witheitherapproach,anentitywouldhavebeenrequiredto

presentreclassificationadjustmentsforitemsreclassifiedfromothercomprehensiveincometonetincome

inthestatement(s).InDecember2011,thereclassificationadjustmentsguidancewasdeferredindefinitely.

Allotherpresentationguidancewillbeeffectiveforfiscalyears,andinterimperiodswithinthoseyears,

beginningafterDecember15,2011andshouldbeappliedretrospectively.TheCompanyintendstocomply

withthenewpresentationguidancebeginninginthefirstquarterof2012.
InMay2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidancerelatingtofairvalue
measurements.TheamendmentsweretheresultoftheFASBandtheInternationalAccountingStandards

Boarddevelopingcommonrequirementsformeasuringfairvalueandfordisclosinginformationaboutfair

valuemeasurements.Theamendmentschangethewordingusedtodescribeseveraloftherequirementsfor

measuringfairvalueandfordisclosinginformationaboutfairvaluemeasurements,butgenerallydonot

resultinachangeintheapplicationoftheexistingguidance.Theguidanceiseffectiveforinterimand

annualperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2011andshouldbeappliedprospectively.TheCompany

intendstocomplywiththeamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidancewhenitbecomeseffective,but

doesnotanticipatethattheadoptionofthisguidancewillhaveasignificantimpactonanyofitsfairvalue

measurements.InApril2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotheassessmentofeffective
controlforrepurchaseagreements.Theamendmentsremovefromtheassessmentofeffectivecontrolthe

criterionrequiringthetransferortohavetheabilitytorepurchaseorredeemthefinancialassetson

substantiallytheagreedterms,evenintheeventofdefaultbythetransferee.Theamendmentsalsoremove

thecollateralmaintenanceimplementationguidancerelatedtothatcriterion.Theguidanceiseffectivefor

thefirstinterimorannualperiodbeginningonorafterDecember15,2011andshouldbeapplied

prospectivelytotransactionsormodificationsofexistingtransactionsthatoccuronoraftertheeffective

date.TheCompanydoesnotanticipatethattheadoptionofthisguidancewillhaveasignificanteffecton

thereportingofitsfinancialpositionorresultsofitsoperations.
InApril2011,theFASBissuedamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidancerelatingtoacreditor™s
determinationofwhetherarestructuringisatroubleddebtrestructuring.Theamendmentsclarifythe

guidanceonacreditor™sevaluationofwhetherithasgrantedaconcessionandwhetheradebtoris

experiencingfinancialdifficulties.Theamendmentswereeffectiveforthefirstinterimorannualperiod

beginningonorafterJune15,2011andwererequiredtobeappliedretrospectivelytothebeginningofthe

annualperiodofadoption.Asaresultoftheapplicationoftheamendments,receivablespreviously

measuredunderlosscontingencyguidancethatarenewlyconsideredimpairedshouldbedisclosed,along

withtherelatedallowanceforcreditlosses,asoftheendoftheperiodofadoption.Forpurposesof

measuringimpairmentofthosereceivables,anentitywasrequiredtoapplytheamendmentsprospectively

forthefirstinterimorannualperiodbeginningonorafterJune15,2011.Thedeferredcreditriskdisclosure

guidanceissuedinJuly2010relatingtotroubleddebtrestructuringswasalsoeffectiveforinterimand

annualperiodsbeginningonorafterJune15,2011.TheCompanyadoptedthenewaccountingand

disclosurerequirementseffectiveJuly1,2011.Theimpactoftherequiredretrospectiveevaluationofloan

modificationsbacktoJanuary1,2011wasinsignificant.Thedisclosuresrelatingtotroubleddebt

restructuringscanbefoundinnote4ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
InDecember2010,theFASBissuedamendeddisclosureguidancerelatingtotheproforma
informationforbusinesscombinationsthatoccurredinthecurrentreportingperiod.Theamended
disclosurestatesthatifanentitypresentscomparativefinancialstatements,theentityshoulddisclose

revenueandearningsofthecombinedentityasthoughthebusinesscombination(s)thatoccurredduring

thecurrentyearhadoccurredasofthebeginningofthecomparablepriorannualreportingperiod.The

guidanceiseffectiveprospectivelyforbusinesscombinationsforwhichtheacquisitiondateisonorafterthe

beginningofthefirstannualreportingperiodbeginningonorafterDecember15,2010.TheCompanyhas

compliedwiththesedisclosurerequirementsinthereportingofproformainformationinnote2ofNotesto

FinancialStatementswithrespecttoitsbusinesscombinationwithWilmingtonTrust.
92InDecember2010,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtothegoodwill
impairmenttestforreportingunitswithzeroornegativecarryingamounts.Forthosereportingunitswith
zeroornegativecarryingamounts,anentityisrequiredtoperformﬁStepTwoﬂofthegoodwillimpairment

testifitismorelikelythannotthatagoodwillimpairmentexists.Indeterminingwhetheritismorelikely

thannotthatagoodwillimpairmentexists,anentityshouldconsiderwhetherthereareanyadverse

qualitativefactorsindicatingthatanimpairmentmayexist.Theguidanceiseffectiveforfiscalyears,and

interimperiodswithinthoseyears,beginningafterDecember15,2010.ThroughDecember31,2011,the

adoptionofthisguidancehadnoimpactontheCompany™sfinancialpositionorresultsofitsoperations.
Forward-LookingStatements
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsandothersections

ofthisAnnualReportcontainforward-lookingstatementsthatarebasedoncurrentexpectations,estimates

andprojectionsabouttheCompany™sbusiness,management™sbeliefsandassumptionsmadeby

management.Forward-lookingstatementsaretypicallyidentifiedbywordssuchasﬁbelieve,ﬂﬁexpect,ﬂ

ﬁanticipate,ﬂﬁintend,ﬂﬁtarget,ﬂﬁestimate,ﬂﬁcontinue,ﬂﬁpositions,ﬂﬁprospectsﬂorﬁpotential,ﬂbyfuture

conditionalverbssuchasﬁwill,ﬂﬁwould,ﬂﬁshould,ﬂﬁcould,ﬂorﬁmay,ﬂorbyvariationsofsuchwordsorby

similarexpressions.Thesestatementsarenotguaranteesoffutureperformanceandinvolvecertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptions(ﬁFutureFactorsﬂ)whicharedifficulttopredict.Therefore,actualoutcomes

andresultsmaydiffermateriallyfromwhatisexpressedorforecastedinsuchforward-lookingstatements.

Forward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandtheCompanyassumesnodutyto

updateforward-lookingstatements.
FutureFactorsincludechangesininterestrates,spreadsonearningassetsandinterest-bearing
liabilities,andinterestratesensitivity;prepaymentspeeds,loanoriginations,creditlossesandmarketvalues

onloans,collateralsecuringloansandotherassets;sourcesofliquidity;commonsharesoutstanding;

commonstockpricevolatility;fairvalueofandnumberofstock-basedcompensationawardstobeissuedin

futureperiods;theimpactofchangesinmarketvaluesontrust-relatedrevenues;legislationand/or

regulationaffectingthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andM&Tanditssubsidiariesindividuallyor

collectively,includingtaxlegislationorregulation;regulatorysupervisionandoversight,includingmonetary

policyandcapitalrequirements;changesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorotherregulatoryagencies;increasingpriceandproduct/servicecompetitionbycompetitors,

includingnewentrants;rapidtechnologicaldevelopmentsandchanges;theabilitytocontinuetointroduce

competitivenewproductsandservicesonatimely,cost-effectivebasis;themixofproducts/services;

containingcostsandexpenses;governmentalandpublicpolicychanges;protectionandvalidityof

intellectualpropertyrights;relianceonlargecustomers;technological,implementationandcost/financial

risksinlarge,multi-yearcontracts;theoutcomeofpendingandfuturelitigationandgovernmental

proceedings,includingtax-relatedexaminationsandothermatters;continuedavailabilityoffinancing;

financialresourcesintheamounts,atthetimesandonthetermsrequiredtosupportM&Tandits

subsidiaries™futurebusinesses;andmaterialdifferencesintheactualfinancialresultsofmerger,acquisition

andinvestmentactivitiescomparedwithM&T™sinitialexpectations,includingthefullrealizationof

anticipatedcostsavingsandrevenueenhancements.
ThesearerepresentativeoftheFutureFactorsthatcouldaffecttheoutcomeoftheforward-looking
statements.Inaddition,suchstatementscouldbeaffectedbygeneralindustryandmarketconditionsand

growthrates,generaleconomicandpoliticalconditions,eithernationallyorinthestatesinwhichM&Tand

itssubsidiariesdobusiness,includinginterestrateandcurrencyexchangeratefluctuations,changesand

trendsinthesecuritiesmarkets,andotherFutureFactors.
93Table23
QUARTERLYTRENDS
2011Quarters
2010Quarters
Earningsanddividends
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstAmountsinthousands,exceptpershare
Interestincome(taxable-equivalentbasis)
............................$722,535$726,897$694,721$673,810$688,855$691,765$690,889$682,309
Interestexpense
.................................................97,969103,632102,05198,679108,628116,032117,557120,052
Netinterestincome
..............................................624,566623,265592,670575,131580,227575,733573,332562,257
Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.....................................74,00058,00063,00075,00085,00093,00085,000105,000
Otherincome
..................................................398,454368,382501,656314,420286,938289,899273,557257,706
Less:otherexpense
..............................................739,583662,019576,895499,571469,274480,133476,068489,362
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.......................................209,437271,628454,431314,980312,891292,499285,821225,601
Applicableincometaxes
..........................................55,16281,974125,605102,380102,31994,61990,96768,723
Taxable-equivalentadjustment
.....................................6,5356,5466,4686,3276,1305,8656,1055,923
Netincome
....................................................$147,740$183,108$322,358$206,273$204,442$192,015$188,749$150,955
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders-diluted
..................$129,804$164,671$297,179$190,121$189,678$176,789$173,597$136,431
Percommonsharedata
Basicearnings
................................................$
1.04$1.32$2.43$1.59$1.59$1.49$1.47$1.16
Dilutedearnings
..............................................1.041.322.421.591.591.481.461.15
Cashdividends
...............................................$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70
Averagecommonsharesoutstanding
Basic........................................................124,615124,575122,181119,201118,613118,320118,054117,765
Diluted......................................................124,736124,860122,796119,852119,503119,155118,878118,256
Performanceratios,annualized

Returnon
Averageassets
.................................................75%.94%1.78%1.23%1.18%1.12%1.11%.89%
Averagecommonshareholders™equity
.............................6.12%7.84%14.94%10.16%10.03%9.56%9.67%7.86%
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets(taxable-equivalentbasis)....3.60%3.68%3.75%3.92%3.85%3.87%3.84%3.78%

Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount...
....1.83%1.91%1.91%2.08%2.19%1.97%1.95%2.39%
Netoperating(tangible)results(a)

Netoperatingincome(inthousands)
................................$168,410$209,996$289,487$216,360$196,235$200,225$197,752$160,953
Dilutednetoperatingincomepercommonshare
......................1.201.532.161.671.521.551.531.23
Annualizedreturnon
Averagetangibleassets
..........................................89%1.14%1.69%1.36%1.20%1.24%1.23%1.00%
Averagetangiblecommonshareholders™equity
......................12.36%16.07%24.24%20.16%18.43%19.58%20.36%17.34%
Efficiencyratio(b)
...............................................67.38%61.79%55.56%55.75%52.55%53.40%53.06%55.88%
Balancesheetdata

Inmillions,exceptpershare

Averagebalances
Totalassets(c)
................................................$
78,393$76,908$72,454$68,045$68,502$67,811$68,334$68,883
Totaltangibleassets(c)
.........................................74,73773,23968,80664,42364,86964,16764,67965,216
Earningassets
................................................68,77167,21563,38259,43159,73759,06659,81160,331
Investmentsecurities
...........................................7,6347,0056,3947,2197,5417,9938,3768,172
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.........................59,07758,18855,46151,97251,14150,83551,27851,948
Deposits.....................................................59,99958,47354,45749,68049,27147,53047,93247,394
Commonshareholders™equity(c)
.................................8,5498,4628,0967,7087,5827,4447,3027,136
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
..........................4,8934,7934,4484,0863,9493,8003,6473,469
Atendofquarter
Totalassets(c)
................................................$
77,924$77,864$77,727$67,881$68,021$68,247$68,154$68,439
Totaltangibleassets(c)
.........................................74,27474,20174,05264,26364,39364,60964,50564,778
Earningassets
................................................68,02767,92667,83758,82259,43459,38859,36859,741
Investmentsecurities
...........................................7,6737,1746,4926,5077,1517,6638,0988,105
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.........................60,09658,40158,54152,11951,99050,79251,06151,444
Deposits.....................................................59,39559,48259,22950,54849,80548,65547,52347,538
Commonshareholders™equity,netofundeclaredcumulative
preferreddividends(c)
.......................................8,4038,5098,3807,7587,6117,4887,3607,177
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
..........................4,7534,8464,7054,1403,9833,8503,7113,516
Equitypercommonshare
.......................................66.8267.7066.7164.4363.5462.6961.7760.40
Tangibleequitypercommonshare
...............................37.7938.5637.4534.3833.2632.2331.1529.59
Marketpricepercommonshare
High........................................................$
80.02$90.00$90.76$91.05$87.87$95.00$96.15$85.00
Low........................................................
66.4066.4183.3184.6372.0381.0874.1166.32
Closing......................................................76.3469.9087.9588.4787.0581.8184.9579.38
(a)Excludesamortizationandbalancesrelatedtogoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsandmerger-relatedgainsandexpenseswhich,exceptinthe
calculationoftheefficiencyratio,arenetofapplicableincometaxeffects.AreconciliationofnetincomeandnetoperatingincomeappearsinTable24.
(b)Excludesimpactofmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesandnetsecuritiestransactions.

(c)Thedifferencebetweentotalassetsandtotaltangibleassets,andcommonshareholders™equityandtangiblecommonshareholders™equity,representsgoodwill,core
depositandotherintangibleassets,netofapplicabledeferredtaxbalances.AreconciliationofsuchbalancesappearsinTable24.
94Table24
RECONCILIATIONOFQUARTERLYGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
2011Quarters
2010Quarters
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstIncomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
.................................................$
147,740$183,108$322,358$206,273$204,442$192,015$188,749$150,955
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
...........10,47610,6228,9747,4788,0548,2109,0039,998
Merger-relatedgain(a)
........................................ŠŠ
(64,930)Š(16,730)ŠŠŠ
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
.....................................10,19416,26623,0852,609469ŠŠŠ
Netoperatingincome
.......................................$
168,410$209,996$289,487$216,360$196,235$200,225$197,752$160,953
Earningspercommonshare

Dilutedearningspercommonshare
..............................$
1.04$1.32$2.42$1.59$1.59$1.48$1.46$1.15
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............08.08.07.06.07.07.07.08
Merger-relatedgain(a)
........................................ŠŠ
(.52)Š(.14)ŠŠŠ
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
......................................08.13.19.0
2ŠŠŠŠDilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
................$
1.20$1.53$2.16$1.67$1.52$1.55$1.53$1.23
Otherexpense

Otherexpense
...............................................$
739,583$662,019$576,895$499,571$469,274$480,133$476,068$489,362
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
..............(17,162)(17,401)(14,740)(12,314)(13,269)(13,526)(14,833)(16,475)
Merger-relatedexpenses
.......................................(16,393)(26,003)(36,996)(4,295)(771)ŠŠŠ
Noninterestoperatingexpense
................................$
706,028$618,615$525,159$482,962$455,234$466,607$461,235$472,887
Merger-relatedexpenses

Salariesandemployeebenefits
..................................$534$285$
15,305$7$7$Š$Š$Š
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
..................................189119257944ŠŠŠ
Printing,postageandsupplies
..................................1,47572331814774ŠŠŠ
Othercostsofoperations
......................................14,19524,87621,3484,062646ŠŠŠ
Total.....................................................$
16,393$26,003$36,996$4,295$771$Š$Š$Š
Efficiencyratio

Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
.......................$
706,028$618,615$525,159$482,962$455,234$466,607$461,235$472,887
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
...........................624,566623,265592,670575,131580,227575,733573,332562,257
Otherincome
................................................398,454368,382501,656314,420286,938289,899273,557257,706
Less:Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
..........................189
110,74439,3538611,44010459
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
.......................(24,822)(9,642)(26,530)(16,041)(27,567)(9,532)(22,380)(26,802)
Merger-relatedgain
.......................................ŠŠ
64,930Š27,539ŠŠŠ
Denominator................................................$1,047,841$1,001,200$945,182$866,239$866,332$873,724$869,259$846,306
Efficiencyratio
...............................................67.38%61.79%55.56%55.75%52.55%53.40%53.06%55.88%
Balancesheetdata

Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
...............................................$
78,393$76,908$72,454$68,045$68,502$67,811$68,334$68,883
Goodwill...................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...........................(185)(202)(b)(165)(b)(119)(132)(146)(160)(176)
Deferredtaxes
...............................................5458422224273034
Averagetangibleassets
......................................$
74,737$73,239$68,806$64,423$64,869$64,167$64,679$65,216
Averagecommonequity

Averagetotalequity
...........................................$
9,413$9,324$8,812$8,451$8,322$8,181$8,036$7,868
Preferredstock
...............................................(864)(862)(716)(743)(740)(737)(734)(732)
Averagecommonequity
.....................................8,5498,4628,0967,7087,5827,4447,3027,136
Goodwill...................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...........................(185)(202)(b)(165)(b)(119)(132)(146)(160)(176)
Deferredtaxes
...............................................5458422224273034
Averagetangiblecommonequity
..............................$
4,893$4,793$4,448$4,086$3,949$3,800$3,647$3,469
Atendofquarter

Totalassets

Totalassets
..................................................$
77,924$77,864$77,727$67,881$68,021$68,247$68,154$68,439
Goodwill...................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...........................(176)(193)(b)(210)(b)(113)(126)(139)(152)(167)
Deferredtaxes
...............................................5155602023262831
Totaltangibleassets
.........................................$
74,274$74,201$74,052$64,263$64,393$64,609$64,505$64,778
Totalcommonequity

Totalequity
.................................................$
9,271$9,375$9,244$8,508$8,358$8,232$8,102$7,916
Preferredstock
...............................................(865)(863)(861)(743)(741)(738)(735)(733)
Undeclareddividends-cumulativepreferredstock
...................(3)(3)(3)(7)(6)(6)(7)(6)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferreddividends..8,4038,5098,3807,7587,6117,4887,3607,177
Goodwill...................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...........................(176)(193)(b)(210)(b)(113)(126)(139)(152)(167)
Deferredtaxes
...............................................5155602023262831
Totaltangiblecommonequity
................................$
4,753$4,846$4,705$4,140$3,983$3,850$3,711$3,516
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.

(b)Duringthefourthquarterof2011,theCompanyreclassified$64millionofinvestmentinunconsolidatedsubsidiaryfromotherintangibleassetstootherassets.
Similarreclassificationamountshavebeenreflectedinthethree-monthperiodsendedSeptember30,2011andJune30,2011toconformtothe2011year-end

presentation.95Item7A.
QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothediscussioncontainedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand
AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬂunderthecaptionsﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,and

InterestRateSensitivityﬂ(includingTable20)andﬁCapital.ﬂ
Item8.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataconsistofthefinancialstatementsasindexedandpresented
belowandTable23ﬁQuarterlyTrendsﬂpresentedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand

AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂ
IndextoFinancialStatementsandFinancialStatementSchedules
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
......................................97
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
..................................98
ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2011and2010
.................................99
ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
...........100
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
........101
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYearsendedDecember31,2011,
2010and2009
....................................................................102
NotestoFinancialStatements
..........................................................103
-17196ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
Managementisresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingatM&TBankCorporationandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ).Managementhasassessedthe

effectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2011basedon

criteriadescribedinﬁInternalControlŠIntegratedFrameworkﬂissuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoring

OrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission.Basedonthatassessment,managementconcludedthatthe

CompanymaintainedeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2011.
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsoftheCompanyhavebeenauditedby
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirm,thatwasengagedto

expressanopinionastothefairnessofpresentationofsuchfinancialstatements.PricewaterhouseCoopers

LLPwasalsoengagedtoassesstheeffectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.

ThereportofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPfollowsthisreport.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
ROBERTG.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer
RENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer
97ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheBoardofDirectorsandShareholdersof
M&TBankCorporation
Inouropinion,theconsolidatedfinancialstatementslistedintheaccompanyingindexpresentfairly,inall
materialrespects,thefinancialpositionofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiaries(theﬁCompanyﬂ)at

December31,2011and2010,andtheresultsofitsoperationsanditscashflowsforeachofthethreeyearsin

theperiodendedDecember31,2011inconformitywithaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedinthe

UnitedStatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inallmaterialrespects,effective

internalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2011,basedoncriteriaestablishedin
InternalControlŠIntegratedFramework
issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadway
Commission(COSO).TheCompany™smanagementisresponsibleforthesefinancialstatements,for

maintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforitsassessmentoftheeffectivenessof

internalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanyingReportonInternalControlOver

FinancialReporting.Ourresponsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthesefinancialstatementsandonthe

Company™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonourintegratedaudits.Weconductedour

auditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOversightBoard(United

States).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanandperformtheauditstoobtainreasonableassuranceabout

whetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatementandwhethereffectiveinternalcontrol

overfinancialreportingwasmaintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthefinancialstatements

includedexamining,onatestbasis,evidencesupportingtheamountsanddisclosuresinthefinancial

statements,assessingtheaccountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmadebymanagement,and

evaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresentation.Ourauditofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting

includedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,assessingtheriskthata

materialweaknessexists,andtestingandevaluatingthedesignandoperatingeffectivenessofinternal

controlbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedperformingsuchotherproceduresaswe

considerednecessaryinthecircumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonablebasisforour

opinions.Acompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassurance
regardingthereliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternal

purposesinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany™sinternalcontrolover

financialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecords

that,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthe

company;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermit

preparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples,andthat

receiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsof

managementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionor

timelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany™sassetsthatcouldhavea

materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetect
misstatements.Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisk

thatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliance

withthepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
Buffalo,NewYork

February23,2012
98M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
(Dollarsinthousands,exceptpershare)
December31
20112010AssetsCashandduefrombanks
...............................................$
1,449,547$908,755
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
........................................154,960101,222
Federalfundssold
.....................................................2,85025,000
Tradingaccount
......................................................561,834523,834
Investmentsecurities(includespledgedsecuritiesthatcanbesoldorrepledgedof
$1,826,011atDecember31,2011;$1,937,817atDecember31,2010)

Availableforsale(cost:$6,312,423atDecember31,2011;$5,494,377at
December31,2010)
...............................................6,228,5605,413,492
Heldtomaturity(fairvalue:$1,012,562atDecember31,2011;$1,225,253at
December31,2010)
...............................................1,077,7081,324,339
Other(fairvalue:$366,886atDecember31,2011;$412,709atDecember31,
2010)...........................................................366,886412,709
Totalinvestmentsecurities
..........................................7,673,1547,150,540
Loansandleases
......................................................60,377,87552,315,942
Unearneddiscount
..................................................(281,870)(325,560)
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.............................60,096,00551,990,382
Allowanceforcreditlosses
............................................(908,290)(902,941)
Loansandleases,net
...............................................59,187,71551,087,441
Premisesandequipment
................................................581,435435,837
Goodwill............................................................3,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................................176,394125,917
Accruedinterestandotherassets
.........................................4,611,7734,138,092
Totalassets
......................................................$77,924,287$68,021,263
Liabilities
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
............................................$20,017,883$14,557,568
NOWaccounts
.......................................................1,912,2261,393,349
Savingsdeposits
.......................................................31,001,08326,431,281
Timedeposits
........................................................6,107,5305,817,170
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
........................................355,9271,605,916
Totaldeposits
....................................................59,394,64949,805,284
Federalfundspurchasedandagreementstorepurchasesecurities
...............732,059866,555
Othershort-termborrowings
............................................50,02380,877
Accruedinterestandotherliabilities
......................................1,790,1211,070,701
Long-termborrowings
.................................................6,686,2267,840,151
Totalliabilities
....................................................68,653,07859,663,568
Shareholders™equity

Preferredstock,$1.00par,1,000,000sharesauthorized;Issuedandoutstanding:
Liquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare:381,500sharesatDecember31,2011;

778,000sharesatDecember31,2010;Liquidationpreferenceof$10,000per

share:50,000sharesatDecember31,2011;noneatDecember31,2010
........864,585740,657
Commonstock,$.50par,250,000,000sharesauthorized,125,683,398sharesissued
atDecember31,2011;120,396,611sharesissuedatDecember31,2010
........62,84260,198
Commonstockissuable,68,220sharesatDecember31,2011;71,345sharesat
December31,2010
..................................................4,0724,189
Additionalpaid-incapital
...............................................2,828,9862,398,615
Retainedearnings
.....................................................5,867,1655,426,701
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net
........................(356,441)(205,220)
TreasurystockŠcommon,atcostŠnoneatDecember31,2011;693,974shares
atDecember31,2010
................................................Š
(67,445)Totalshareholders™equity
...........................................9,271,2098,357,695
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...............................$77,924,287$68,021,263
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
99M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
........................................$2,522,567$2,394,082$2,326,748
Depositsatbanks
...................................................2,9348834
Federalfundssold
...................................................574263
Agreementstoresellsecurities
.........................................13240466
Tradingaccount
....................................................1,198615534
Investmentsecurities
................................................Fullytaxable
.....................................................256,057324,695389,268
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
..........................................9,1429,8698,484
Totalinterestincome
............................................2,792,0872,729,7952,725,197
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
.....................................................1,1458501,122
Savingsdeposits
....................................................84,31485,226112,550
Timedeposits
......................................................71,014100,241206,220
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......................................962
1,3682,391
Short-termborrowings
...............................................1,0303,0067,129
Long-termborrowings
...............................................243,866271,578340,037
Totalinterestexpense
............................................402,331462,269669,449
Netinterestincome
..................................................2,389,7562,267,5262,055,748
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............................................270,000368,000604,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses
........................2,119,7561,899,5261,451,748
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
...........................................166,021184,625207,561
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
....................................455,095478,133469,195
Trustincome
.......................................................332,385122,613128,568
Brokerageservicesincome
............................................56,47049,66957,611
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
..............................27,22427,28623,125
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.....................................150,1872,7701,165
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)losses
...................(72,915)(115,947)(264,363)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(before
taxes)...........................................................(4,120)29,666126,066
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
...............................(77,035)(86,281)(138,297)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
........................(24,231)(25,768)(25,898)
Otherrevenuesfromoperations
.......................................496,796355,053325,076
Totalotherincome
..............................................1,582,9121,108,1001,048,106
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.........................................1,203,993999,7091,001,873
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................249,514216,064211,391
Printing,postageandsupplies
.........................................40,91733,84738,216
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
....................61,61758,10364,255
FDICassessments
...................................................100,23079,32496,519
Othercostsofoperations
.............................................821,797527,790568,309
Totalotherexpense
.............................................2,478,0681,914,8371,980,563
Incomebeforetaxes
.................................................1,224,6001,092,789519,291
Incometaxes
.........................................................365,121356,628139,400
Netincome
.........................................................$
859,479$736,161$379,891
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
Basic.............................................................$
781,743$675,826$332,006
Diluted...........................................................781,765675,853332,006
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic.............................................................$
6.37$5.72$2.90
Diluted...........................................................6.355.692.89
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
100M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
................................................................................$
859,479$736,161$379,891
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
........................Provisionforcreditlosses
..................................................................270,000368,000604,000
Depreciationandamortizationofpremisesandequipment
........................................80,30467,67764,398
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
....................................................55,85956,58262,268
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
..........................................61,61758,10364,255
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
..........................................................33,92451,06882,501
Assetwrite-downs
........................................................................170,632101,106171,225
Netgainonsalesofassets
...................................................................(187,120)(10,426)(88)
Netchangeinaccruedinterestreceivable,payable..
.............................................(27,508)(9,942)(38,920)
Netchangeinotheraccruedincomeandexpense...
.............................................147,465144,705(154,992)
Netchangeinloansoriginatedforsale
........................................................238,156202,089(57,105)
Netchangeintradingaccountassetsandliabilities..
.............................................69,438(89,476)11,956
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
......................................................1,772,2461,675,6471,189,389
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
......................................................Availableforsale
..........................................................................1,909,82923,3109,427
Other..................................................................................116,410107,320137,577
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
.................................................Availableforsale
..........................................................................1,307,5671,539,5912,187,553
Heldtomaturity
..........................................................................272,841248,087125,466
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
..............................................................Availableforsale
..........................................................................(3,491,759)(440,560)(651,549)
Heldtomaturity
..........................................................................(28,454)(1,003,796)(37,453)
Other..................................................................................(30,727)(7,647)(21,088)
Netdecreaseinagreementstoresellsecurities
....................................................15,000Š90,000
Net(increase)decreaseinloansandleases
.......................................................(2,233,600)(201,854)657,458
Net(increase)decreaseininterest-bearingdepositsatbanks
.........................................2,552,52732,113(123,051)
Otherinvestments,net
.......................................................................(29,306)(52,179)(35,934)
Capitalexpenditures,net
.....................................................................(70,008)(70,458)(58,967)
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired
Banksandbankholdingcompanies
..........................................................178,940213,204202,993
PurchaseofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
.........................................(330,000)ŠŠ
Proceedsfromsalesofrealestateacquiredinsettlementofloans
.....................................208,54689,20690,241
Other,net
.................................................................................21,126(927)(70,978)
Netcashprovidedbyinvestingactivities
.......................................................368,932475,4102,501,695
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Netincrease(decrease)indeposits
.............................................................742,6531,879,491(528,964)
Netdecreaseinshort-termborrowings
..........................................................(313,050)(1,522,646)(745,251)
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
............................................................(1,809,984)(2,514,342)(2,390,182)
DividendspaidŠcommon
...................................................................(350,129)(335,303)(325,706)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
...................................................................(48,203)(40,225)(31,946)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
........................................................495,000ŠŠ
Redemptionofpreferredstock
................................................................(370,000)ŠŠ
Other,net
.................................................................................31,17769,3819,156
Netcashusedbyfinancingactivities
..........................................................(1,622,536)(2,463,644)(4,012,893)
Netincrease(decrease)incashandcashequivalents
.................................................518,642(312,587)(321,809)
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
......................................................933,7551,246,3421,568,151
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
...........................................................$
1,452,397$933,755$1,246,342
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
...............................................................$
2,807,071$2,765,101$2,748,880
Interestpaidduringtheyear
..................................................................440,810490,767704,173
Incometaxespaid(refunded)duringtheyear
....................................................251,810287,740(19,549)
Supplementalscheduleofnoncashinvestingandfinancingactivities
Realestateacquiredinsettlementofloans
.......................................................$
81,588$199,285$102,392
AcquisitionsFairvalueof
Assetsacquired(noncash)
................................................................10,666,102342,4436,581,433
Liabilitiesassumed
......................................................................10,044,555528,1086,318,998
Preferredstockissued
....................................................................ŠŠ
155,779Commonstockissued
...................................................................405,557Š272,824
RetirementofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
...................................330,000ŠŠ
Commonstockoptions
..................................................................ŠŠ
1,367Commonstockwarrants
.................................................................ŠŠ
6,467Increase(decrease)fromconsolidationofsecuritizationtrusts
Loans..............................................................................Š
423,865Š
InvestmentsecuritiesŠavailableforsale
..................................................Š
(360,471)Š
Long-termborrowings
.................................................................Š
65,419Š
Accruedinterestandother
..............................................................Š
2,025Š
Securitizationofresidentialmortgageloansallocatedto
Availableforsaleinvestmentsecurities
........................................................ŠŠ
140,942Capitalizedservicingrights
.................................................................ŠŠ788
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
101M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™Equity
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
PreferredStockCommonStockCommonStockIssuableAdditionalPaid-inCapitalRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss),
NetTreasuryStockTotal2009BalanceŠJanuary1,2009
..................................$
567,46360,1984,6172,897,9075,062,754(736,881)(1,071,327)6,784,731
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome
............................................ŠŠŠŠ
379,891ŠŠ379,891
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:.........................................Unrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
................ŠŠŠŠŠ
337,043Š337,043
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
................ŠŠŠŠŠ
57,284Š57,284
Unrealizedlossesonterminatedcashflowhedges
.........ŠŠŠŠŠ
6,557Š6,557
780,775AcquisitionofProvidentBanksharesCorporation:
Preferredstockissued
....................................155,779ŠŠŠŠŠŠ155,779
Commonstockissued
...................................ŠŠŠ
(348,080)ŠŠ620,904272,824
Commonstockoptions
..................................ŠŠŠ
1,367ŠŠŠ1,367
Commonstockwarrants
.................................ŠŠŠ
6,467ŠŠŠ6,467
Issuanceofcommonstocktodefinedbenefitpensionplan
........ŠŠŠ
(51,417)ŠŠ95,70644,289
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............................ŠŠŠŠ
(31,946)ŠŠ(31,946)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......................6,993ŠŠŠ(6,993)ŠŠŠ
Repaymentofmanagementstockownershipprogramreceivable...ŠŠŠ195ŠŠŠ195

Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............................ŠŠŠ
(21,773)ŠŠ75,27853,505
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............................ŠŠŠ
(39,936)ŠŠ50,17010,234
Directors™stockplan
.....................................ŠŠŠ
(1,280)ŠŠ2,5311,251
Deferredcompensationplans,net,includingdividend
equivalents..........................................ŠŠ
(275)(503)(205)Š1,03653
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(326,617)ŠŠ(326,617)
BalanceŠDecember31,2009
...............................$
730,23560,1984,3422,442,9475,076,884(335,997)(225,702)7,752,907
2010
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome
............................................ŠŠŠŠ
736,161ŠŠ736,161
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:.........................................Unrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
................ŠŠŠŠŠ
134,904Š134,904
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
................ŠŠŠŠŠ
(3,846)Š(3,846)
Unrealizedgainsonterminatedcashflowhedge
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
(281)Š(281)
866,938Preferredstockcashdividends
...............................ŠŠŠ
(40,225)ŠŠ(40,225)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......................10,422ŠŠŠ(10,422)ŠŠŠ
Repaymentofmanagementstockownershipprogramreceivable...ŠŠŠ3,783ŠŠŠ3,783

Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............................ŠŠŠ
5,491ŠŠ43,08548,576
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............................ŠŠŠ
(46,248)ŠŠ95,57449,326
Directors™stockplan
.....................................ŠŠŠ
(362)ŠŠ1,4791,117
Deferredcompensationplans,net,includingdividend
equivalents..........................................ŠŠ
(153)(305)(195)Š639(14)
Stockpurchaseplan
.....................................ŠŠŠ
(8,482)ŠŠ17,4808,998
Other.................................................ŠŠŠ
1,791ŠŠŠ1,791
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(335,502)ŠŠ(335,502)
BalanceŠDecember31,2010
...............................$
740,65760,1984,1892,398,6155,426,701(205,220)(67,445)8,357,695
2011
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome
............................................ŠŠŠŠ
859,479ŠŠ859,479
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:.........................................Unrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
................ŠŠŠŠŠ
6,687Š6,687
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
................ŠŠŠŠŠ
(156,824)Š(156,824)
Unrealizedgainsonterminatedcashflowhedge
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
(281)Š(281)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
.................ŠŠŠŠŠ
(803)Š(803)
708,258AcquisitionofWilmingtonTrustCorporationŒcommonstock
issued................................................Š
2,348Š403,209ŠŠŠ405,557
PartialredemptionofSeriesApreferredstock
..................(370,000)ŠŠŠŠŠŠ(370,000)
ConversionofSeriesBpreferredstockinto433,144sharesof
commonstock
.........................................(26,500)192Š21,754ŠŠ4,554Š
IssuanceofSeriesDpreferredstock
...........................500,000ŠŠ(5,000)ŠŠŠ495,000
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............................ŠŠŠŠ
(48,203)ŠŠ(48,203)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......................20,428ŠŠŠ(20,428)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............................Š50Š
12,196ŠŠ31,66643,912
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............................Š48Š
(4,300)ŠŠ30,10625,854
Directors™stockplan
.....................................Š6Š813ŠŠ612
1,431Deferredcompensationplans,net,includingdividend
equivalents..........................................ŠŠ
(117)(164)(188)Š50738
Other.................................................ŠŠŠ
1,863ŠŠŠ1,863
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(350,196)ŠŠ(350,196)
BalanceŠDecember31,2011
...............................$
864,58562,8424,0722,828,9865,867,165(356,441)Š9,271,209
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
102M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatements
1.Significantaccountingpolicies
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYork.
Throughsubsidiaries,M&Tprovidesindividuals,corporationsandotherbusinesses,andinstitutionswith

commercialandretailbankingservices,includingloansanddeposits,trust,mortgagebanking,asset

management,insuranceandotherfinancialservices.Bankingactivitiesarelargelyfocusedonconsumers

residinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,VirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbiaand

onsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas.BankingservicesarealsoprovidedinWest

VirginiaandNewJersey,whilecertainsubsidiariesalsoconductactivitiesinotherareas.
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofM&Tandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ)conformto
generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ)andtogeneralpracticeswithinthebankingindustry.

ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomakeestimates

andassumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureofcontingentassets

andliabilitiesatthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereportedamountsofrevenuesandexpenses

duringthereportingperiod.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates.Themoresignificant

accountingpoliciesareasfollows:
ConsolidationTheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludeM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries.Allsignificantintercompany

accountsandtransactionsofconsolidatedsubsidiarieshavebeeneliminatedinconsolidation.Thefinancial

statementsofM&Tincludedinnote26reportinvestmentsinsubsidiariesundertheequitymethod.

InformationaboutsomelimitedpurposeentitiesthatareaffiliatesoftheCompanybutarenotincludedin

theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsappearsinnote19.
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
Forpurposesofthisstatement,cashandduefrombanksandfederalfundssoldareconsideredcashand

cashequivalents.
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseare

treatedascollateralizedfinancingtransactionsandarerecordedatamountsequaltothecashorother

considerationexchanged.ItisgenerallytheCompany™spolicytotakepossessionofcollateralpledgedto

secureagreementstoresell.
Tradingaccount
Financialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesarestatedatfairvalue.Realizedgainsandlossesand

unrealizedchangesinfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesareincludedinﬁtrading

accountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Investmentsecurities
Investmentsindebtsecuritiesareclassifiedasheldtomaturityandstatedatamortizedcostwhen

managementhasthepositiveintentandabilitytoholdsuchsecuritiestomaturity.Investmentsinotherdebt

securitiesandequitysecuritieshavingreadilydeterminablefairvaluesareclassifiedasavailableforsaleand

statedatestimatedfairvalue.Amortizationofpremiumsandaccretionofdiscountsforinvestment

securitiesavailableforsaleandheldtomaturityareincludedininterestincome.Exceptforinvestment

securitiesforwhichtheCompanyhasenteredintoarelatedfairvaluehedge,unrealizedgainsorlosseson

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearereflectedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net

ofapplicableincometaxes.
OthersecuritiesarestatedatcostandincludestockoftheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandthe
FederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork.
Thecostbasisofindividualsecuritiesiswrittendownthroughachargetoearningswhendeclinesin
valuebelowamortizedcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Incaseswherefairvalueislessthan

amortizedcostandtheCompanyintendstoselladebtsecurity,itismorelikelythannottoberequiredto

selladebtsecuritybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,ortheCompanydoesnotexpecttorecover

theentireamortizedcostbasisofadebtsecurity,another-than-temporaryimpairmentisconsideredtohave
103occurred.IftheCompanyintendstosellthedebtsecurityormorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthe
securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisrecognizedin

earningsequaltotheentiredifferencebetweenthedebtsecurity™samortizedcostbasisanditsfairvalue.If

theCompanydoesnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofthesecurity,theCompanydoes

notintendtosellthesecurityanditisnotmorelikelythannotthattheCompanywillberequiredtosellthe

securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisseparatedinto

(a)theamountrepresentingthecreditlossand(b)theamountrelatedtoallotherfactors.Theamountof

theother-than-temporaryimpairmentrelatedtothecreditlossisrecognizedinearningswhiletheamount

relatedtootherfactorsisrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,netofapplicabletaxes.Subsequently,

theCompanyaccountsfortheother-than-temporarilyimpaireddebtsecurityasifthesecurityhadbeen

purchasedonthemeasurementdateoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentatanamortizedcostbasis

equaltothepreviousamortizedcostbasislesstheother-than-temporaryimpairmentrecognizedin

earnings.Thecostbasisofindividualequitysecuritiesiswrittendowntoestimatedfairvaluethrougha

chargetoearningswhendeclinesinvaluebelowcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Realized

gainsandlossesonthesalesofinvestmentsecuritiesaredeterminedusingthespecificidentification

method.Loansandleases
TheCompany™saccountingmethodsforloansdependsonwhethertheloanswereoriginatedbythe

Companyorwereacquiredinabusinesscombination.
Originatedloansandleases

Interestincomeonloansisaccruedonalevelyieldmethod.Loansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusand

previouslyaccruedinterestthereonischargedagainstincomewhenprincipalorinterestisdelinquent

90days,unlessmanagementdeterminesthattheloanstatusclearlywarrantsothertreatment.Nonaccrual

commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansarereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenborrowershave

demonstratedanabilitytorepaytheirloansandtherearenodelinquentprincipalandinterestpayments.

Consumerloansnotsecuredbyresidentialrealestatearereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenallpastdue

principalandinterestpaymentshavebeenpaidbytheborrower.Loanssecuredbyresidentialrealestateare

returnedtoaccrualstatuswhentheyaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentsof90daysor

less.Loanbalancesarechargedoffwhenitbecomesevidentthatsuchbalancesarenotfullycollectible.For

commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,charge-offsarerecognizedafteranassessmentbycredit

personnelofthecapacityandwillingnessoftheborrowertorepay,theestimatedvalueofanycollateral,and

anyotherpotentialsourcesofrepayment.Acharge-offisrecognizedwhen,aftersuchassessment,itbecomes

evidentthattheloanbalanceisnotfullycollectible.Forloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,theexcessof

theloanbalancesoverthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhenthe

loanbecomes150daysdelinquent.Consumerloansaregenerallycharged-offwhentheloansare91to180

dayspastdue,dependingonwhethertheloaniscollateralizedandthestatusofrepossessionactivitieswith

respecttosuchcollateral.Loanfeesandcertaindirectloanoriginationcostsaredeferredandrecognizedas

aninterestyieldadjustmentoverthelifeoftheloan.Netdeferredfeeshavebeenincludedinunearned

discountasareductionofloansoutstanding.Commitmentstosellrealestateloansareutilizedbythe

Companytohedgetheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalue

ofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsalerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetincludeschangesin

estimatedfairmarketvalueduringthehedgeperiod,typicallyfromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.

Valuationadjustmentsmadeontheseloansandcommitmentsareincludedinﬁmortgagebanking

revenues.ﬂExceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenous
loansandareevaluatedcollectively,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplying

GAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunableto

collectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent

90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubled

debtrestructuring.Impairedloansareclassifiedaseithernonaccrualorasloansrenegotiatedatbelow

marketrateswhichcontinuetoaccrueinterest,providedthatacreditassessmentoftheborrower™sfinancial

conditionresultsinanexpectationoffullrepaymentunderthemodifiedcontractualterms.Certainloans

greaterthan90daysdelinquentarenotconsideredimpairediftheyarebothwell-securedandintheprocess
104ofcollection.Loanslessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentand
aregenerallynotconsideredimpaired.Impairmentofaloanismeasuredbasedonthepresentvalueof

expectedfuturecashflowsdiscountedattheloan™seffectiveinterestrate,theloan™sobservablemarketprice,

orthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Interestreceivedonimpairedloansplaced

onnonaccrualstatusisgenerallyappliedtoreducethecarryingvalueoftheloanor,ifprincipalis

consideredfullycollectible,recognizedasinterestincome.
Residualvalueestimatesforcommercialleasesaregenerallydeterminedthroughinternalorexternal
reviewsoftheleasedproperty.TheCompanyreviewscommercialleaseresidualvaluesatleastannuallyand

recognizesresidualvalueimpairmentsdeemedtobeotherthantemporary.
Loansandleasesacquiredinabusinesscombination

DuetochangesinGAAP,loansacquiredinabusinesscombinationsubsequenttoDecember31,2008are

recordedatfairvaluewithnocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcredit

losses.Theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheestimatedfairvalueofacquiredloansis

recognizedasinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequentdecreasesintheexpected

principalcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditionstotheCompany™sallowancefor

creditlosses.Subsequentimprovementsinexpectedcashflowsresultfirstintherecoveryofanyapplicable

allowanceforcreditlossesandtheninrecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeoverthethenremaining

livesoftheloans.
Purchasedimpairedloansrepresentspecificallyidentifiedloanswithevidenceofcreditdeterioration
forwhichitwasprobableatacquisitionthattheCompanywouldbeunabletocollectallcontractual

principalandinterestpayments.
Allowanceforcreditlosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossesrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,theamountoflossesinherentinthe

loanandleaseportfolioasofthebalancesheetdate.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Uponacquisitionofassets

takeninsatisfactionofadefaultedloan,theexcessoftheremainingloanbalanceovertheasset™sestimated

fairvaluelesscoststosellischargedoffagainsttheallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentdeclinesinvalue

oftheassetsarerecognizedasﬁotherexpenseﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Premisesandequipment
Premisesandequipmentarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciation.Depreciationexpenseiscomputed

principallyusingthestraight-linemethodovertheestimatedusefullivesoftheassets.
Capitalizedservicingrights
Capitalizedservicingassetsareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Separately

recognizedservicingassetsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalue.TheCompanyusestheamortizationmethod

tosubsequentlymeasureservicingassets.Underthatmethod,capitalizedservicingassetsarechargedto

expenseinproportiontoandovertheperiodofestimatednetservicingincome.
Toestimatethefairvalueofservicingrights,theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilarassets
andthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculatedusing

assumptionsthatmarketparticipantswoulduseinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.Such

assumptionsincludeestimatesofthecostofservicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriatediscountrate,

andprepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesofevaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentofcapitalizedservicing

rights,theCompanystratifiessuchassetsbasedonthepredominantriskcharacteristicsoftheunderlying

financialinstrumentsthatareexpectedtohavethemostimpactonprojectedprepayments,costofservicing

andotherfactorsaffectingfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrights.Suchfactorsmayinclude
105financialassetorloantype,noterateandterm.Theamountofimpairmentrecognizedistheamountby
whichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsforastratumexceedsestimatedfairvalue.

Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluationallowance.
Salesandsecuritizationsoffinancialassets
DuetochangesinGAAP,transfersoffinancialassetsthatoccuronorafterJanuary1,2010forwhichthe

Companyhassurrenderedcontrolofthefinancialassetsareaccountedforassales.Interestsinasaleof

financialassetsthatcontinuetobeheldbytheCompany,includingservicingrights,aremeasuredatfair

value.PriortoJanuary1,2010,transfersoffinancialassetsforwhichtheCompanyhadsurrenderedcontrol

ofthefinancialassetswereaccountedforassalestotheextentthatconsiderationotherthanbeneficial

interestsinthetransferredassetswasreceivedinexchange.Interestsinasaleorsecuritizationoffinancial

assetsthatcontinuedtobeheldbytheCompany,otherthanservicingrightswhichwereinitiallymeasured

atfairvalue,weremeasuredatthedateoftransferbyallocatingthepreviouscarryingamountbetweenthe

assetstransferredandtheretainedinterestsbasedontheirrelativeestimatedfairvalues.Thefairvaluesof

retaineddebtsecuritiesaregenerallydeterminedthroughreferencetoindependentpricinginformation.The

fairvaluesofretainedservicingrightsandanyotherretainedinterestsaredeterminedbasedonthepresent

valueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththoseinterestsandbyreferencetomarketpricesfor

similarassets.
AlsoduetochangesinGAAP,fortransfersoffinancialassetsthatoccuronorafterJanuary1,2010
theexceptionthatpermittedsaleaccountingforcertainmortgagesecuritizationswhenatransferorhasnot

surrenderedcontroloverthetransferredassetswaseliminated.ThechangeinGAAPalsoeliminatedthe

conceptofqualifyingspecial-purposeentities.Asaresult,beginningJanuary1,2010,allformerlyqualifying

special-purposeentitieshadtobere-evaluatedinaccordancewiththeapplicableconsolidationguidance.

Additionalinformationontheeffectsofthisaccountingchangeandchangesintheaccountingguidance

relatingtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiesisincludedinnote19.
Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
Goodwillrepresentstheexcessofthecostofanacquiredentityoverthefairvalueoftheidentifiablenet

assetsacquired.Goodwillisnotamortized,butratheristestedforimpairmentatleastannuallyatthe

reportingunitlevel,whichiseitheratthesameleveloronelevelbelowanoperatingsegment.Other

acquiredintangibleassetswithfinitelives,suchascoredepositintangibles,areinitiallyrecordedatestimated

valueandareamortizedovertheirestimatedlives.Coredepositandotherintangibleassetsaregenerally

amortizedusingacceleratedmethodsoverestimatedusefullivesoffivetotenyears.TheCompany

periodicallyassesseswhethereventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethatthecarryingamountsofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsmaybeimpaired.
Derivativefinancialinstruments
TheCompanyaccountsforderivativefinancialinstrumentsatfairvalue.Ifcertainconditionsaremet,a

derivativemaybespecificallydesignatedas(a)ahedgeoftheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofa

recognizedassetorliabilityoranunrecognizedfirmcommitment,(b)ahedgeoftheexposuretovariable

cashflowsofaforecastedtransactionor(c)ahedgeoftheforeigncurrencyexposureofanetinvestmentina

foreignoperation,anunrecognizedfirmcommitment,anavailableforsalesecurity,oraforeigncurrency

denominatedforecastedtransaction.
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto
modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.Forsuchagreements,amountsreceivableorpayablearerecognizedasaccruedunderthetermsof

theagreementandthenetdifferentialisrecordedasanadjustmenttointerestincomeorexpenseofthe

relatedassetorliability.Interestrateswapagreementsmaybedesignatedaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcash

flowhedges.Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandchangesinthefair

valuesofthehedgeditemsarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalues

ofinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,the

effectiveportionofthederivative™sunrealizedgainorlossisinitiallyrecordedasacomponentofother
106comprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedintoearningswhentheforecastedtransactionaffects
earnings.Theineffectiveportionoftheunrealizedgainorlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfrom

operationsﬂimmediately.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinthe
fairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsaleand

commitmentstosellrealestateloansaregenerallyrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatestimated

fairmarketvalue.
Derivativeinstrumentsnotrelatedtomortgagebankingactivities,includingfinancialfutures
commitmentsandinterestrateswapagreements,thatdonotsatisfythehedgeaccountingrequirementsare

recordedatfairvalueandaregenerallyclassifiedastradingaccountassetsorliabilitieswithresultant

changesinfairvaluebeingrecognizedinﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.
Stock-basedcompensation
Stock-basedcompensationexpenseisrecognizedoverthevestingperiodofthestock-basedgrantbasedon

theestimatedgrantdatevalueofthestock-basedcompensationthatisexpectedtovest,exceptthatthe

recognitionofcompensationcostsisacceleratedforstock-basedawardsgrantedtoretirement-eligible

employeesandemployeeswhowillbecomeretirement-eligiblepriortofullvestingoftheawardbecausethe

Company™sincentivecompensationplanallowsforvestingatthetimeanemployeeretires.
Incometaxes
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognizedforthefuturetaxeffectsattributabletodifferencesbetween

thefinancialstatementvalueofexistingassetsandliabilitiesandtheirrespectivetaxbasesand

carryforwards.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesaremeasuredusingenactedtaxratesandlaws.
TheCompanyevaluatesuncertaintaxpositionsusingthetwo-stepprocessrequiredbyGAAP.The
firststeprequiresadeterminationofwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatataxpositionwillbesustained

uponexamination,includingresolutionofanyrelatedappealsorlitigationprocesses,basedonthetechnical

meritsoftheposition.Underthesecondstep,ataxpositionthatmeetsthemore-likely-than-not

recognitionthresholdismeasuredatthelargestamountofbenefitthatisgreaterthanfiftypercentlikelyof

beingrealizeduponultimatesettlement.
Earningspercommonshare
Basicearningspercommonshareexcludedilutionandarecomputedbydividingincomeavailableto

commonshareholdersbytheweighted-averagenumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(exclusiveofshares

representedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrants)andcommonshares

issuableunderdeferredcompensationarrangementsduringtheperiod.Dilutedearningspercommonshare

reflectsharesrepresentedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrantsandthe

potentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecuritiesorothercontractstoissuecommonstockwereexercisedor

convertedintocommonstockorresultedintheissuanceofcommonstockthatthensharedinearnings.

Proceedsassumedtohavebeenreceivedonsuchexerciseorconversionareassumedtobeusedtopurchase

sharesofM&Tcommonstockattheaveragemarketpriceduringtheperiod,asrequiredbytheﬁtreasury

stockmethodﬂofaccounting.
GAAPrequiresthatunvestedshare-basedpaymentawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightsto
dividendsordividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)shallbeconsideredparticipatingsecuritiesand

shallbeincludedinthecomputationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.The

Companyhasissuedstock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstock

unitsthatcontainsuchrightsand,accordingly,theCompany™searningspercommonsharearecalculated

usingthetwo-classmethod.
Treasurystock
RepurchasesofsharesofM&Tcommonstockarerecordedatcostasareductionofshareholders™equity.

Reissuancesofsharesoftreasurystockarerecordedataveragecost.
1072.Acquisitions
OnMay16,2011,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofWilmingtonTrustCorporation
(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,inastock-for-stocktransaction.

WilmingtonTrustoperated55bankingofficesinDelawareandPennsylvaniaatthedateofacquisition.The

resultsofoperationsacquiredintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhavebeenincludedintheCompany™s

financialresultssinceMay16,2011.WilmingtonTrustshareholdersreceived.051372sharesofM&T

commonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrustcommonstock,resultinginM&Tissuinga

totalof4,694,486commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$406million.
TheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhasbeenaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodof
accountingand,accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecorded

atestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$10.8billion,including

$6.4billionofloansandleases(includingapproximately$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4

billionofcommercialloansandleases,$1.1billionofconsumerloansand$680millionofresidentialreal

estateloans).Liabilitiesassumedaggregated$10.0billion,including$8.9billionofdeposits.Thecommon

stockissuedinthetransactionadded$406milliontoM&T™scommonshareholders™equity.Immediately

priortotheclosingoftheWilmingtonTrusttransaction,M&Tredeemedthe$330millionofpreferredstock

issuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŒCapitalPurchaseProgramofthe

U.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompanyrecorded

$112millionofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Thecoredepositandotherintangibleassetsare

generallybeingamortizedoverperiodsof5to7yearsusingacceleratedmethods.Therewasnogoodwill

recordedasaresultofthetransaction,however,anon-taxablegainof$65millionwasrealized,which

representedtheexcessofthefairvalueofassetsacquiredlessliabilitiesassumedoverconsideration

exchanged.TheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustaddedtoM&T™smarket-leadingpositioninthe

Mid-AtlanticregionbygivingM&TaleadingdepositmarketshareinDelaware.
Inmanycases,determiningthefairvalueoftheacquiredassetsandassumedliabilitiesrequiredthe
Companytoestimatecashflowsexpectedtoresultfromthoseassetsandliabilitiesandtodiscountthose

cashflowsatappropriateratesofinterest.Themostsignificantofthesedeterminationsrelatedtothefair

valuationofacquiredloans.Forsuchloans,theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionoverthe

estimatedfairvalueisrecognizedasinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Thedifference

betweencontractuallyrequiredpaymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedat

acquisitionreflectstheimpactofestimatedcreditlosses.InaccordancewithGAAP,therewasnocarry-over

ofWilmingtonTrust™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcreditlosses.Inconjunctionwiththe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition,theacquiredloanportfoliowasaccountedforatfairvalueasfollows:
May16,2011
(Inthousands)
Contractualprincipalandinterestatacquisition
......................................$
8,208,181Contractualcashflowsnotexpectedtobecollected
...................................(1,109,762)Expectedcashflowsatacquisition
.................................................7,098,419Interestcomponentofexpectedcashflows
..........................................(687,989)BasisinacquiredloansatacquisitionŒestimatedfairvalue
.............................$
6,410,430Includedintheabovetableisinformationrelatedtoloansforwhichtherewasspecificevidenceof
creditdeteriorationattheacquisitiondateandforwhichitwasdeemedprobablethattheCompanywould

beunabletocollectallcontractualprincipalandinterestpayments(ﬁpurchasedimpairedloansﬂ).

Contractualprincipalandinterest,cashflowsexpectedtobecollectedandestimatedfairvalueofpurchased

impairedloanswere$1,419,672,000,$747,265,000and$707,907,000,respectively.
108TheconsiderationpaidforWilmingtonTrust™sequityandtheamountsofacquiredidentifiableassets
andliabilitiesassumedasoftheacquisitiondatewereasfollows:
(Inthousands)
Purchaseprice:
Valueof:
Commonsharesissued(4,694,486shares)
........................................$
405,557PreferredstockpurchasedfromU.S.Treasury
.....................................330,000Totalpurchaseprice
........................................................735,557Identifiableassets:
Cashandduefrombanks
......................................................178,940Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
...............................................2,606,265Othershort-terminvestments
..................................................57,817Investmentsecurities
..........................................................510,390Loansandleases
.............................................................6,410,430Coredepositandotherintangibles
...............................................112,094Otherassets
.................................................................969,106Totalidentifiableassets
......................................................10,845,042Liabilities:Deposits....................................................................8,864,161Short-termborrowings
........................................................147,752Long-termborrowings
........................................................600,830Otherliabilities
..............................................................431,812Totalliabilities
.............................................................10,044,555Netgainresultingfromacquisition
................................................$
64,930ThefollowingtabledisclosestheimpactofWilmingtonTrust(excludingtheimpactofthemerger-
relatedgainandexpenses)sincetheacquisitiononMay16,2011throughtheendof2011.Thetablealso
presentscertainproformainformationasifWilmingtonTrusthadbeenacquiredonJanuary1,2010.These

resultscombinethehistoricalresultsofWilmingtonTrustintotheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementof

incomeand,whilecertainadjustmentsweremadefortheestimatedimpactofcertainfairvaluation

adjustmentsandotheracquisition-relatedactivity,theyarenotindicativeofwhatwouldhaveoccurredhad

theacquisitiontakenplaceontheindicateddate.Inparticular,noadjustmentshavebeenmadetoeliminate

theamountofWilmingtonTrust™sprovisionforcreditlossesof$42millionin2011and$700millionin

2010ortheimpactofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrecognizedbyWilmingtonTrustof$5

millionin2011and$38millionin2010thatmaynothavebeennecessaryhadtheacquiredloansand

investmentsecuritiesbeenrecordedatfairvalueasofthebeginningof2010.Furthermore,expensesrelated

tosystemsconversionsandothercostsofintegrationof$84millionandthe$65milliongainrecordedin

connectionwiththeacquisitionareincludedinthe2011periodsinwhichsuchcostswereincurredandgain

recognized.Additionally,theCompanyexpectstoachievefurtheroperatingcostsavingsandotherbusiness

synergiesasaresultoftheacquisitionwhicharenotreflectedintheproformaamountsthatfollow.
ActualSince
ProForma
AcquisitionYearEnded
ThroughDecember31
December31,2011
20112010(Inthousands)
Totalrevenues(a)
....................................$380,945$4,202,109$4,064,729
Netincome
.........................................18,586808,696295,486
(a)Representsnetinterestincomeplusotherincome.
109OnNovember5,2010,M&TBank,M&T™sprincipalbankingsubsidiary,enteredintoapurchaseand
assumptionagreementwiththeFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)toassumeallofthe
deposits,exceptcertainbrokereddeposits,andacquirecertainassetsofKBank,basedinRandallstown,

Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDIC

wherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.

Thetransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assets

acquiredandliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assets

acquiredinthetransactiontotaledapproximately$556million,including$154millionofloansand$186

millionincash,andliabilitiesassumedaggregated$528million,including$491millionofdeposits.In

accordancewithGAAP,M&TBankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$17million($28

millionbeforetaxes).Thegainreflectedtheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloan

lossesthatM&TBankobtainedfromtheFDIC.Therewasnogoodwillorotherintangibleassetsrecordedin

connectionwiththistransaction.TheoperationsobtainedintheKBankacquisitiontransactiondidnot

haveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
OnAugust28,2009,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththeFDIC
toassumeallofthedepositsandacquirecertainassetsofBradfordBank(ﬁBradfordﬂ),Baltimore,Maryland.

Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDICwherebyM&T

BankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.The

transactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assetsacquired

andliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaled

approximately$469million,including$302millionofloans,andliabilitiesassumedaggregated

$440million,including$361millionofdeposits.InaccordancewithGAAP,M&TBankrecordedan

after-taxgainonthetransactionof$18million($29millionbeforetaxes).Therewasnogoodwillorother

intangibleassetsrecordedinconnectionwiththistransaction.TheoperationsobtainedintheBradford

acquisitiontransactiondidnothaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionor

resultsofoperations.
OnMay23,2009,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofProvidentBankshares
Corporation(ﬁProvidentﬂ),abankholdingcompanybasedinBaltimore,Maryland,inastock-for-stock

transaction.ProvidentBank,Provident™sbankingsubsidiary,wasmergedintoM&TBankonthatdate.The

resultsofoperationsacquiredintheProvidenttransactionhavebeenincludedintheCompany™sfinancial

resultssinceMay23,2009.Providentcommonshareholdersreceived.171625sharesofM&Tcommonstock

inexchangeforeachshareofProvidentcommonstock,resultinginM&Tissuingatotalof5,838,308

commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$273million.Inaddition,basedonthemerger

agreement,outstandingandunexercisedoptionstopurchaseProvidentcommonstockwereconvertedinto

optionstopurchasethecommonstockofM&T.Thoseoptionshadanestimatedfairvalueof$1million.In

total,thepurchasepricewasapproximately$274millionbasedonthefairvalueontheacquisitiondateof

M&TcommonstockexchangedandtheoptionstopurchaseM&Tcommonstock.HoldersofProvident™s

preferredstockwereissuedsharesofnewSeriesBandSeriesCPreferredStockofM&Thavingsubstantially

identicalterms.ThatpreferredstockandwarrantstopurchasecommonstockassociatedwiththeSeriesC

PreferredStockadded$162milliontoM&T™sshareholders™equity.
TheProvidenttransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,
accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecordedatestimatedfair

valueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaled$6.3billion,including$4.0billionofloansandleases

(includingapproximately$1.7billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4billionofconsumerloans,

$700millionofcommercialloansandleasesand$300millionofresidentialrealestateloans)and

$1.0billionofinvestmentsecurities.Liabilitiesassumedwere$5.9billion,including$5.1billionofdeposits.

Thetransactionadded$436milliontoM&T™sshareholders™equity,including$280millionofcommon

equityand$156millionofpreferredequity.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompanyrecorded

$332millionofgoodwilland$63millionofcoredepositintangible.Thecoredepositintangibleisbeing

amortizedoversevenyearsusinganacceleratedmethod.TheacquisitionofProvidentexpandedthe

Company™spresenceintheMid-Atlanticarea,gavetheCompanythesecondlargestdepositsharein

Maryland,andtripledtheCompany™spresenceinVirginia.
110InconjunctionwiththeProvidentacquisition,theacquiredloanportfoliowasaccountedforatfair
valueasfollows:
May23,2009
(Inthousands)
Contractualprincipalandinterestatacquisition
......................................$5,465,167Contractualcashflowsnotexpectedtobecollected
...................................(832,115)Expectedcashflowsatacquisition
.................................................4,633,052Interestcomponentofexpectedcashflows
..........................................(595,685)BasisinacquiredloansatacquisitionŒestimatedfairvalue
.............................$4,037,367TheCompanyincurredmerger-relatedexpensesin2011,2010and2009relatedtosystems
conversionsandothercostsofintegratingandconformingacquiredoperationswithandintotheCompany.
Thoseexpensesconsistedlargelyofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththe

conversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandofficeconsolidations;

costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingcontractualarrangementsforvariousservices;initialmarketingand

promotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;severance(forformer

WilmingtonTrustandProvidentemployees)andincentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,

postage,suppliesandothercostsofcompletingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnew

marketsandoffices.AsofDecember31,2011,theremainingunpaidportionofincurredmerger-related

expenseswasnotmaterial.
Asummaryofmerger-relatedexpensesincludedintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeforthe
yearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009follows:
201120102009(Inthousands)
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.......................................$16,131$7$10,030
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.......................................41244
2,975Printing,postageandsupplies
.......................................2,663743,677
Othercostsofoperations
...........................................64,48164672,475
$83,687$771$89,157
1113.Investmentsecurities
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritieswereasfollows:
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedGainsGrossUnrealizedLossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................$
69,468$1,255$Š$70,723
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......39,5187712040,269
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............4,344,116177,3922754,521,233
Privatelyissuedresidential
......................1,369,3716,373239,4881,136,256
Privatelyissuedcommercial
....................17,679Š2,65015,029
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................43,83411,1542,48852,500
Otherdebtsecurities
............................216,7004,58844,443176,845
Equitysecurities
................................211,7378,4684,500215,705
6,312,423210,001293,8646,228,560
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......188,6809,14128197,793
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............608,53324,881Š633,414
Privatelyissued
...............................268,642Š99,140169,502
Otherdebtsecurities
............................11,853ŠŠ11,853
1,077,70834,02299,1681,012,562
Othersecurities
................................366,886ŠŠ366,886
Total.........................................$7,757,017$244,023$393,032$7,608,008
December31,2010

Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................$
61,772$1,680$18$63,434
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......59,9215615760,425
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............3,146,054161,2981,1113,306,241
Privatelyissuedresidential
......................1,677,06410,578252,0811,435,561
Privatelyissuedcommercial
....................25,357Š2,95022,407
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................95,08024,7549,078110,756
Otherdebtsecurities
............................310,01726,88338,000298,900
Equitysecurities
................................119,1125,0988,442115,768
5,494,377230,852311,7375,413,492
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......191,1191,944694192,369
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............808,10814,061Š822,169
Privatelyissued
...............................312,537Š114,397198,140
Otherdebtsecurities
............................12,575ŠŠ12,575
1,324,33916,005115,0911,225,253
Othersecurities
................................412,709ŠŠ412,709
Total.........................................$7,231,425$246,857$426,828$7,051,454
112Noinvestmentinsecuritiesofasinglenon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceeded
tenpercentofshareholders™equityatDecember31,2011.
AsofDecember31,2011,thelatestavailableinvestmentratingsofallobligationsofstatesand
politicalsubdivisions,privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,collateralizeddebtobligationsandother
debtsecuritieswere:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
AverageCreditRatingofFairValueAmount
AorBetter
BBBBBBorLess
NotRated
(Inthousands)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions................$
228,198$238,062$185,888$22,898$200$Š$29,076
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Privatelyissuedresidential
....1,638,0131,305,758339,446125,71191,370749,231Š
Privatelyissuedcommercial...17,67915,02915,029ŠŠŠŠ
Collateralizeddebtobligations...43,83452,5004,6675,7119,65332,469Š
Otherdebtsecurities
...........228,553188,69826,44837,23587,11025,00212,903
Total........................$2,156,277$1,800,047$571,478$191,555$188,333$806,702$41,979
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizedmortgageobligationsincludedin
mortgage-backedsecuritieswereasfollows:
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
Collateralizedmortgageobligations:
Amortizedcost
....................................................$1,750,922$2,195,422
Estimatedfairvalue
................................................1,417,8221,840,046
Grossrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecuritieswere$150,223,000in2011,$3,549,000in2010and
$1,629,000in2009.Grossrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswere$36,000in2011,$779,000in2010
and$464,000in2009.During2011,theCompanysoldresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedby

theFederalNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ)andtheFederalHomeLoanMortgage

Corporation(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ)havinganaggregateamortizedcostofapproximately$1.5billionwhich

resultedinagainof$104million(pre-tax).TheCompanyalsosoldtrustpreferredsecuritiesand

collateralizeddebtsecuritiesduring2011havinganaggregateamortizedcostof$136millionand$100

million,respectively,whichresultedingainsof$25million(pre-tax)and$20million(pre-tax),respectively.
TheCompanyrecognized$77million,$68millionand$128millionofpre-taxother-than-
temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesin2011,2010and2009,

respectively.Theimpairmentchargeswererecognizedinlightofdeteriorationofrealestatevaluesandarise

indelinquenciesandcharge-offsofunderlyingmortgageloanscollateralizingthosesecurities.

Approximately$6millionand$10millionoftheimpairmentchargesrecognizedin2010and2009,

respectively,relatedtocollateralizeddebtobligationsbackedlargelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby

financialinstitutions.Alsoreflectedin2010™simpairmentchargeswasa$12millionchargerelatedto

AmericanDepositaryShares(ﬁADSsﬂ)ofAlliedIrishBanks,p.l.c.(ﬁAIBﬂ)obtainedinM&T™s2003

acquisitionofaformersubsidiaryofAIB.Theother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrepresent

management™sestimateofcreditlossesinherentinthedebtsecuritiesconsideringprojectedcashflowsusing

assumptionsofdelinquencyrates,lossseverities,andotherestimatesoffuturecollateralperformance.
113Changesincreditlossesduring2011,2010and2009associatedwithdebtsecuritiesforwhichother-
than-temporaryimpairmentlosseshavebeenpreviouslyrecognizedinearningsfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠbeginningbalance
.....................$
327,912$284,513$155,967
Additionsforcreditlossesnotpreviouslyrecognized
...............77,03574,288138,297
Reductionsforincreasesincashflows
...........................(5,111)(754)(1,393)
Reductionsforrealizedlosses
..................................(114,437)(30,135)(8,358)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠendingbalance
........................$
285,399$327,912$284,513
AtDecember31,2011,theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofdebtsecuritiesbycontractual
maturitywereasfollows:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
Debtsecuritiesavailableforsale:
Dueinoneyearorless
................................................$
52,096$52,182
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
....................................49,83351,977
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
....................................13,27514,621
Dueaftertenyears
...................................................254,316221,557
369,520340,337
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesavailableforsale
..............................5,731,1665,672,518
$6,100,686$6,012,855
Debtsecuritiesheldtomaturity:

Dueinoneyearorless
................................................$
29,133$29,352
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
....................................27,71729,303
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
....................................129,160136,308
Dueaftertenyears
...................................................14,52314,683
200,533209,646
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesheldtomaturity
..............................877,175802,916
$1,077,708$1,012,562
114AsummaryofinvestmentsecuritiesthatasofDecember31,2011and2010hadbeeninacontinuous
unrealizedlosspositionforlessthantwelvemonthsandthosethathadbeeninacontinuousunrealizedloss
positionfortwelvemonthsorlongerfollows:
LessThan12Months
12MonthsorMore
FairValue
UnrealizedLossesFairValue
UnrealizedLosses(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..................$Š$Š$Š$Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........ŠŠ
1,228(20)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
................38,492(190)6,017(85)
Privatelyissuedresidential
.......................297,133(14,188)751,077(225,300)
Privatelyissuedcommercial
.....................ŠŠ
15,029(2,650)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.....................2,871(335)4,863(2,153)
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................72,637(9,883)73,635(34,560)
Equitysecurities
.................................9,883(4,500)ŠŠ
421,016(29,096)851,849(264,768)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........3,084(4)1,430(24)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
...........1,883(592)167,139(98,548)
4,967(596)168,569(98,572)
Total..........................................$425,983$(29,692)$1,020,418$(363,340)
December31,2010

Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..................$
27,289$(18)$Š$Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........3,712(18)2,062(39)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
................68,507(1,079)2,965(32)
Privatelyissuedresidential
.......................61,192(1,054)1,057,315(251,027)
Privatelyissuedcommercial
.....................ŠŠ
22,407(2,950)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.....................12,462(6,959)6,004(2,119)
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................2,134(10)88,969(37,990)
Equitysecurities
.................................5,326(3,721)673(4,721)
180,622(12,859)1,180,395(298,878)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........76,318(638)467(56)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
...........ŠŠ
198,140(114,397)
76,318(638)198,607(114,453)
Total..........................................$256,940$(13,497)$1,379,002$(413,331)
115TheCompanyowned337individualinvestmentsecuritieswithaggregategrossunrealizedlossesof
$393millionatDecember31,2011.Approximately$341millionoftheunrealizedlossespertaintoprivately
issuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithacostbasisof$1.6billion.TheCompanyalsohad$47millionof

unrealizedlossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,securitiesbackedbytrust

preferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentities,andotherdebtsecuritieshavingacost

basisof$201million.Basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesintheinvestmentsecurities

portfolioatDecember31,2011,withtheexceptionoftheaforementionedsecuritiesforwhichother-than-

temporaryimpairmentlosseswererecognized,theCompanyconcludedthatitexpectedtorecoverthe

amortizedcostbasisofitsinvestment.AsofDecember31,2011,theCompanydoesnotintendtosellnoris

itanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredtosellanyofitsimpairedinvestmentsecurities.AtDecember31,

2011,theCompanyhasnotidentifiedeventsorchangesincircumstanceswhichmayhaveasignificant

adverseeffectonthefairvalueofthe$367millionofcostmethodinvestmentsecurities.
AtDecember31,2011,investmentsecuritieswithacarryingvalueof$5,536,429,000,including
$4,527,515,000ofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,werepledgedtosecuredemandnotesissuedtothe

U.S.Treasury,borrowingsfromvariousFHLBs,repurchaseagreements,governmentaldeposits,interestrate

swapagreementsandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
InvestmentsecuritiespledgedbytheCompanytosecureobligationswherebythesecuredpartyis
permittedbycontractorcustomtosellorrepledgesuchcollateraltotaled$1,826,011,000atDecember31,

2011.ThepledgedsecuritiesincludedsecuritiesoftheU.S.Treasuryandfederalagenciesandmortgage-

backedsecurities.
4.Loansandleases
Totalloansandleasesoutstandingwerecomprisedofthefollowing:
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
LoansCommercial,financial,etc
...........................................$14,419,490$11,999,065
Realestate:
Residential.....................................................7,889,5695,876,413
Commercial....................................................20,312,64816,977,747
Construction...................................................4,203,3244,332,618
Consumer........................................................12,020,22911,483,564
Totalloans
.....................................................58,845,26050,669,407
LeasesCommercial....................................................1,532,6151,646,535
Totalloansandleases
..............................................60,377,87552,315,942
Less:unearneddiscount
............................................(281,870)(325,560)
Totalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.........................$60,096,005$51,990,382
One-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$210millionatDecember31,2011
and$341millionatDecember31,2010.Commercialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$161millionat
December31,2011and$204millionatDecember31,2010.
AsofDecember31,2011,approximately$13millionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgage
loansservicedforothershadbeensoldwithcreditrecourse.AsofDecember31,2011,approximately

$1.8billionofcommercialmortgageloanbalancesservicedforothershadbeensoldwithrecoursein

conjunctionwiththeCompany™sparticipationintheFannieMaeDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing

(ﬁDUSﬂ)program.AtDecember31,2011,theCompanyestimatedthattherecourseobligationsdescribed

abovewerenotmaterialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.Therehavebeennomaterial

lossesincurredasaresultofthosecreditrecoursearrangements.
116Inadditiontorecourseobligations,asdescribedinnote21,theCompanyiscontractuallyobligated
torepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteria
relatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymay

reimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.Chargesincurredforsuch

obligation,whicharerecordedasareductionofmortgagebankingrevenues,were$23million,$30million

and$10millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively.
Theoutstandingprincipalbalanceandthecarryingamountofacquiredloansthatwererecordedat
fairvalueattheacquisitiondatethatisincludedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetwereasfollows:
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
Outstandingprincipalbalance
.........................................$9,203,366$3,681,488
Carryingamount:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc
....................................1,331,198337,969
Commercialrealestate
.............................................3,879,5181,420,239
Residentialrealestate
..............................................915,371348,225
Consumer.......................................................2,033,7001,231,292
$8,159,787$3,337,725
Purchasedimpairedloanstotaled$653millionatDecember31,2011,representinglessthan1%of
theCompany™sassetsand$97millionatDecember31,2010,representinglessthan.2%oftheCompany™s

assets.AsummaryofchangesintheaccretableyieldforacquiredloansfortheyearsendedDecember31,

2011,2010and2009follows:
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201120102009PurchasedOtherPurchasedOtherPurchasedOther
ImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquired(Inthousands)
Balanceatbeginningofperiod..$9,245$447,505$4,318$531,546$Š$Š
Additions...................39,358648,6314,92213,7476,381640,080
Interestincome
..............(26,221)(268,315)(5,826)(171,207)(1,834)(108,534)
Reclassificationsfrom(to)
nonaccretablebalance,net...8,6291,8005,83134,000(229)Š
Other(a)
...................(206)(21,661)Š39,419ŠŠ
Balanceatendofperiod
.......$
30,805$807,960$9,245$447,505$4,318$531,546
(a)Otherchangesinexpectedcashflowsincludingchangesininterestratesandprepayments.
117Asummaryofcurrent,pastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,
2010wereasfollows:
90DaysorMorePast
DueandAccruing
Current30-89Days
PastDue
Non-acquiredAcquired(a)PurchasedImpaired(b)
NonaccrualTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
........$15,493,803$37,112$7,601$8,560$23,762$163,598$15,734,436
Realestate:
Commercial.......19,658,761172,6419,98354,148192,804171,11120,259,448
Residentialbuilder
anddeveloper
....845,68049,35313,60321,116297,005281,5761,508,333
Othercommercial
construction.....2,393,30441,04996823,58278,105106,3252,643,333
Residential........6,626,182256,017250,47237,98256,741172,6817,400,075
ResidentialAlt-A...383,83434,077ŠŠŠ105,179523,090
Consumer:Homeequitylines
andloans
.......6,570,67543,516Š15,4094,63547,1506,681,385
Automobile.......2,644,33048,342Š601Š26,8352,720,108
Other............2,551,22543,5475,2492,34031023,1262,625,797
Total...............$57,167,794$725,654$287,876$163,738$653,362$1,097,581$60,096,005
December31,2010
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
........$13,091,963$97,692$16,647$8,693$2,250$173,365$13,390,610
Realestate:
Commercial.......16,594,91492,86626,36425,0108,275184,36116,931,790
Residentialbuilder
anddeveloper
....898,58134,36182328,20472,710316,8111,351,490
Othercommercial
construction.....2,725,78637,66510,3497,7182,098116,2652,899,881
Residential........4,699,711229,641192,27610,7289,320162,0015,303,677
ResidentialAlt-A...475,23642,674ŠŠŠ106,469624,379
Consumer:Homeequitylines
andloans
.......6,472,56338,367Š9,6922,36633,3636,556,351
Automobile.......2,608,23044,604Š26Š31,8662,684,726
Other............2,190,35336,6894,246951Š15,2392,247,478
Total...............$49,757,337$654,559$250,705$91,022$97,019$1,139,740$51,990,382
(a)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotinclude
purchasedimpairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(b)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandrecordedatfairvalue.
118Ifnonaccrualandrenegotiatedloanshadbeenaccruinginterestattheiroriginallycontractedterms,
interestincomeonsuchloanswouldhaveamountedto$80,278,000in2011,$90,351,000in2010and
$99,618,000in2009.Theactualamountsincludedininterestincomeduring2011,2010and2009onsuch

loanswere$31,301,000,$40,139,000and$43,920,000,respectively.
Duringthenormalcourseofbusiness,theCompanymodifiesloanstomaximizerecoveryefforts.If
theborrowerisexperiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionisgranted,theCompanyconsiderssuch

modificationsastroubleddebtrestructuringsandclassifiesthoseloansaseithernonaccrualloansor

renegotiatedloans.ThetypesofconcessionsthattheCompanygrantstypicallyincludeprincipaldeferrals

andinterestrateconcessions,butmayalsoincludeothertypesofconcessions.Asaresultofadopting

amendmentstotheaccountingguidanceinthethirdquarterof2011,theCompanywasrequiredtoreassess

anyloanmodificationsthatoccurredonorafterJanuary1,2011todetermineiftheyqualifiedastroubled

debtrestructurings.Theimpactoftheretrospectiveevaluationofloanmodificationswasnotsignificant.
119ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2011:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
..................................53$
10,703$10,778$75$Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................3
2,0492,046(3)(654)
Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
..................................29
16,80416,704(100)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................3
15,77815,777(1)(1,463)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
..................................9
33,20826,811(6,397)Š
Other...........................................6
118,114110,156(7,958)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................5
2,5402,56121Š
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
..................................3
8,4368,553117Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................3
65,81360,973(4,840)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
..................................37
8,1758,23560Š
Interestratereduction
.............................14
1,9261,99165(318)
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................111
19,50819,934426(1,559)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
..................................380083535Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................34
6,8136,978165(889)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
..................................3259259ŠŠ
Other...........................................38686ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................26
2,1562,1582(444)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
..................................746
10,05310,053ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................17183183Š
(13)Other...........................................111739739ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................431
6,7036,703Š(808)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
..................................23400400ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................188Š(1)
Other...........................................4103103ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.....................102803803Š
(189)Total...............................................1,780$332,160$313,827$(18,333)$(6,338)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
120Troubleddebtrestructuringsareconsideredtobeimpairedloansandforpurposesofestablishingthe
allowanceforcreditlossesareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodified
loantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Impairmentoftroubleddebt

restructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaultedmayalsobemeasuredbasedontheloan™sobservablemarket

priceorthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Loansthatweremodifiedastroubled

debtrestructuringsduringthetwelvemonthsendedDecember31,2011andforwhichtherewasa

subsequentpaymentdefaultwerenotmaterial.
BorrowingsbydirectorsandcertainofficersofM&Tanditsbankingsubsidiaries,andbyassociates
ofsuchpersons,exclusiveofloansaggregatinglessthan$120,000amountedto$96,523,000and

$105,540,000atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.During2011,newborrowingsbysuchpersons

amountedto$12,320,000(includinganyborrowingsofnewdirectorsorofficersthatwereoutstandingat

thetimeoftheirelection)andrepaymentsandotherreductions(includingreductionsresultingfrom

retirements)were$21,337,000.
AtDecember31,2011,approximately$6.1billionofcommercialloansandleases,$8.5billionof
commercialrealestateloans,$4.2billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloans,$4.2billionof

homeequityloansandlinesofcreditand$3.2billionofotherconsumerloanswerepledgedtosecure

outstandingborrowingsfromtheFHLBofNewYorkandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
TheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioincludescommercialleasefinancingreceivablesconsistingof
directfinancingandleveragedleasesformachineryandequipment,railroadequipment,commercialtrucks

andtrailers,andaircraft.Asummaryofleasefinancingreceivablesfollows:
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
Commercialleases:
Directfinancings:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................$1,137,310$1,205,499
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................96,47996,441
Unearnedincome
...............................................(153,704)(181,771)
Investmentindirectfinancings
..................................1,080,0851,120,169
Leveragedleases:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................154,551164,818
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................144,275179,777
Unearnedincome
...............................................(53,847)(63,154)
Investmentinleveragedleases
...................................244,979281,441
Totalinvestmentinleases.
............................................$1,325,064$1,401,610
Deferredtaxespayablearisingfromleveragedleases
........................$
180,731$202,566
IncludedwithintheestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsatDecember31,2011and2010were$52
millionand$53million,respectively,inresidualvalueassociatedwithdirectfinancingleasesthatare

guaranteedbythelessees.TheCompanyisindemnifiedfromlossbyAIBonaportionofleveragedleases

obtainedintheacquisitionofaformersubsidiaryofAIBonApril1,2003.Amountsintheleveragedlease

sectionofthetablesubjecttosuchindemnificationincludedestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsof$13

millionand$26millionasofDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
121AtDecember31,2011,theminimumfutureleasepaymentstobereceivedfromleasefinancingswere
asfollows:
Total(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2012.......................................................................$
312,7302013.......................................................................246,2652014.......................................................................180,8442015.......................................................................131,0972016.......................................................................103,161Lateryears
...................................................................317,764$1,291,8615.Allowanceforcreditlosses
ChangesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010wereasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
2011CommercialResidentialConsumerUnallocatedTotal(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
.........$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$70,382$902,941
Provisionforcreditlosses...66,24044,40457,081101,0621,213270,000
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(55,021)(86,869)(58,351)(109,246)Š(309,487)
Recoveries..............10,2249,5406,83418,238Š44,836
Netcharge-offs
............(44,797)(77,329)(51,517)(91,008)Š(264,651)
Endingbalance
............$234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121$71,595$908,290
2010Beginningbalance
.........$219,170$359,770$91,582$137,124$70,376$878,022
Provisionforcreditlosses...58,438159,02352,96097,5736368,000

Consolidationofloan
securitizationtrusts
......ŠŠ
2,752ŠŠ2,752
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(91,650)(124,087)(71,016)(125,593)Š(412,346)
Recoveries..............26,6215,85610,07323,963Š66,513
Netcharge-offs
............(65,029)(118,231)(60,943)(101,630)Š(345,833)
Endingbalance
............$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$70,382$902,941
Despitetheaboveallocation,theallowanceforcreditlossesisgeneralinnatureandisavailableto
absorblossesfromanyloanorleasetype.Changesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfor2009wereasfollows:
(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
..............................................................$
787,904Provisionforcreditlosses
........................................................604,000Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs..................................................................(556,462)Recoveries...................................................................42,580Netcharge-offs
.................................................................(513,882)Endingbalance
.................................................................$
878,022122Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso
estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleasesonacollectivebasis.Forpurposesofdeterminingthelevel

oftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyevaluatesitsloanandleaseportfoliobyloantype.The

amountsoflosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliosaredeterminedthroughaloanby

loananalysisoflargerbalancecommercialandcommercialrealestateloansthatareinnonaccrualstatus

andbyapplyinglossfactorstogroupsofloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™sclassification

ofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsis

typicallybasedonexpectedfuturecashflows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsthatmayimpactthe

borrower™sabilitytopay.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtocommercialandcommercialrealestatecreditsonanindividualloanbasis.Loan

officersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe

Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsomonitoredbytheCompany™sloanreview

departmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loangradesareassigned

losscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™slossestimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factors

consideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponentfactorsincludeborrower-specificinformation

relatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,collateralvalues,geographiclocation,financial

conditionandperformance,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-

offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;changesintherisk

profileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;

andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Asupdatedappraisalsareobtainedonindividual

loansorothereventsinthemarketplaceindicatethatcollateralvalueshavesignificantlychanged,individual

loangradesareadjustedasappropriate.Changesinotherfactorscitedmayalsoleadtoloangradechangesat

anytime.Exceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalance

homogenousloansandareevaluatedcollectivelyandacquiredloans,theCompanyconsidersaloantobe

impairedforpurposesofapplyingGAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethat

theCompanywillbeunabletocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreement

ortheloanisdelinquent90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedifit

qualifiesasatroubleddebtrestructuring.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,that

areconsideredtobetroubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtothe

impactofthemodifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Acquiredloan

balancesaregenerallyevaluatedforrecoverabilityonanaggregatedbasisbyloantype.
123Thefollowingtablesprovideinformationwithrespecttoloansandleasesthatwereconsidered
impairedasofandfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010.
December31,2011
December31,2010
RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowanceRecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowance(Inthousands)
Withanallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.............$
118,538$145,510$48,674$121,744$170,888$40,909
Realestate:
Commercial..............................102,886128,45617,651110,975140,01517,393
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
............159,293280,86952,562263,545295,03178,597
Othercommercialconstruction
..............20,23424,6393,83680,93485,43222,067
Residential...............................101,882119,4984,42073,00685,2793,375
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................150,396162,97825,000180,665191,44536,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.................9,38510,6702,30611,79913,3782,227
Automobile..............................53,71053,71011,46858,85858,85812,597
Other...................................8,4018,4012,0842,9782,978768
724,725934,731168,001904,5041,043,304213,933
Withnorelatedallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.............53,10460,778Š52,45366,692Š
Realestate:
Commercial..............................71,63691,118Š77,26981,800Š
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
............133,156177,277Š71,16286,039Š
Othercommercialconstruction
..............86,65289,862Š36,28037,107Š
Residential...............................19,68625,625Š5,0357,723Š
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................34,35660,942Š28,96747,879Š
398,590505,602Š271,166327,240Š
Total:Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.............171,642206,28848,674174,197237,58040,909
Realestate:
Commercial..............................174,522219,57417,651188,244221,81517,393
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
............292,449458,14652,562334,707381,07078,597
Othercommercialconstruction
..............106,886114,5013,836117,214122,53922,067
Residential...............................121,568145,1234,42078,04193,0023,375
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................184,752223,92025,000209,632239,32436,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.................9,38510,6702,30611,79913,3782,227
Automobile..............................53,71053,71011,46858,85858,85812,597
Other...................................8,4018,4012,0842,9782,978768
Total........................................$1,123,315$1,440,333$168,001$1,175,670$1,370,544$213,933
124YearEnded
December31,2011
YearEnded
December31,2010
AverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedTotalCashBasisTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,
etc.........................$
163,485$3,306$3,278$244,687$4,834$4,810
Realestate:
Commercial................189,8372,0601,985240,1231,9831,740
Residentialbuilderand
developer.................317,2961,948860252,2291,716746
Othercommercial
construction..............105,94792668460,416371357
Residential..................99,1074,2712,28662,1043,0281,755
ResidentialAlt-A
.............196,1617,7131,965220,5898,3971,758
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans...11,42868110611,807790202
Automobile.................56,8623,8501,06054,2213,6841,233
Other......................5,006273893,16524348
Total........................$1,145,129$25,028$12,313$1,149,341$25,046$12,649
Theaveragerecordedinvestmentinimpairedloansduring2009was$986,164,000.Interestincome
recognizedonimpairedloanstotaled$10,224,000fortheyearendedDecember31,2009.
Inaccordancewiththepreviouslydescribedpolicies,theCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemthat
isappliedtoallcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiate
riskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectationsofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansand

commercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationofdefaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloan

gradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.

Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondatearegenerallyassigneda

ﬁpassﬂloangradebecausetheirnetfinancialstatementvalueisbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedcash

flows.Loanswithanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedasﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherloss

factorwhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticizedloansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂif

theCompanynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloan

agreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Alllargerbalancecriticizedcommercialand

commercialrealestateloansareindividuallyreviewedbycentralizedloanreviewpersonneleachquarterto

determinetheappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhethertheloanshouldbereportedas

accruingornonaccruing.Smallerbalancecriticizedloansareanalyzedbybusinesslineriskmanagement

areastoensureproperloangradeclassification.Furthermore,criticizednonaccrualcommercialloansand

commercialrealestateloansareconsideredimpairedand,asaresult,specificlossallowancesonsuchloans

areestablishedwithintheallowanceforcreditlossestotheextentappropriateineachindividualinstance.

ThefollowingtablesummarizestheloangradesappliedtothevariousclassesoftheCompany™scommercial

andcommercialrealestateloans.
RealEstate
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
CommercialResidentialBuilderand
DeveloperOtherCommercialConstruction(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Pass.....................................$14,869,636$19,089,252$1,085,970$2,254,609
Criticizedaccrual
..........................701,202999,085140,787282,399
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................163,598171,111281,576106,325
Total....................................$15,734,436$20,259,448$1,508,333$2,643,333
125RealEstate
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
CommercialResidentialBuilderand
DeveloperOtherCommercialConstruction(Inthousands)
December31,2010
Pass.....................................$12,384,512$15,855,774$722,747$2,263,965
Criticizedaccrual
..........................832,733891,655311,932519,651
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................173,365184,361316,811116,265
Total....................................$13,390,610$16,931,790$1,351,490$2,899,881
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,residentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansare
generallyevaluatedcollectivelybyloantypeafterconsideringsuchfactorsaspaymentperformanceand
recentlossexperienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesinthemarketplaceas

wellastheamountofloandefaults.Lossratesonsuchloansaredeterminedbyreferencetorecent

charge-offhistoryandareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofother

factorsincludingnear-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbyM&T™sCreditDepartment.Inarrivingat

suchforecasts,M&Tconsidersthecurrentestimatedfairvalueofitscollateralbasedongeographical

adjustmentsforhomepricedepreciation/appreciationandoverallborrowerrepaymentperformance.With

regardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompanycontemplatesrepaymentofany

firstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonasecondlienposition.However,residentialrealestate

loansandoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremorethan150dayspast

duearegenerallyevaluatedforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisgivingconsiderationtoestimated

collateralvalues.
TheCompanyalsomeasuresadditionallossesforpurchasedimpairedloanswhenitisprobablethat
theCompanywillbeunabletocollectallcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionplusadditionalcashflows

expectedtobecollectedarisingfromchangesinestimatesafteracquisition.Thedeterminationofthe

allocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesisverysubjective.Giventhatinherentsubjectivityand

potentialimprecisioninvolvedindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,the

Companyalsoprovidesaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowance.Theunallocatedportionofthe

allowanceisintendedtorecognizeprobablelossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiableandincludes

management™ssubjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessarytoprovideforthepossibleuseofimprecise

estimatesindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowance.Therefore,theleveloftheunallocated

portionoftheallowanceisprimarilyreflectiveoftheinherentimprecisioninthevariouscalculationsused

indeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Otherfactorsthatcouldalsoleadto

changesintheunallocatedportionincludetheeffectsofexpansionintonewmarketsforwhichthe

Companydoesnothavethesamedegreeoffamiliarityandexperienceregardingportfolioperformancein

changingmarketconditions,theintroductionofnewloanandleaseproducttypes,andotherrisks

associatedwiththeCompany™sloanportfoliothatmaynotbespecificallyidentifiable.
126TheallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™s
impairmentmethodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
......$
48,517$71,784$29,420$15,858$165,579
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
......185,048291,27160,742126,613663,674
Purchasedimpaired
.....................457
4,5821,7536507,442
Allocated.............................$234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121836,695
Unallocated...........................71,595Total.................................$908,290December31,2010

Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
......$
40,459$114,082$39,000$15,492$209,033
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
......171,670282,50546,976117,475618,626
Purchasedimpaired
.....................450
3,9753751004,900
Allocated.............................$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067832,559
Unallocated...........................70,382Total.................................$902,941TherecordedinvestmentinloansandleasessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™simpairment
methodologyasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010wasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment...............$
171,442$561,615$306,320$71,496$1,110,873
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment...............15,539,23223,281,5857,560,10411,950,84958,331,770
Purchasedimpaired
..........23,762567,91456,7414,945653,362
Total......................$15,734,436$24,411,114$7,923,165$12,027,290$60,096,005
December31,2010
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment...............$
173,365$617,437$286,612$72,082$1,149,496
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment...............13,214,99520,482,6415,632,12411,414,10750,743,867
Purchasedimpaired
..........2,25083,0839,3202,36697,019
Total......................$13,390,610$21,183,161$5,928,056$11,488,555$51,990,382
1276.Premisesandequipment
Thedetailofpremisesandequipmentwasasfollows:
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
Land...............................................................$
86,120$64,728
BuildingsŠowned
...................................................365,087280,288
BuildingsŠcapitalleases
..............................................1,1311,131
Leaseholdimprovements
...............................................198,379172,638
FurnitureandequipmentŠowned
......................................436,203366,227
FurnitureandequipmentŠcapitalleases
.................................9,4071,387
1,096,327886,399
Less:accumulateddepreciationandamortization
Ownedassets
.......................................................512,399449,571
Capitalleases
.......................................................2,493991
514,892450,562
Premisesandequipment,net
............................................$
581,435$435,837
Netleaseexpenseforalloperatingleasestotaled$97,098,000in2011,$94,646,000in2010and
$89,030,000in2009.Minimumleasepaymentsundernoncancelableoperatingleasesarepresentedin
note21.Minimumleasepaymentsrequiredundercapitalleasesarenotmaterial.
7.Capitalizedservicingassets
Changesincapitalizedservicingassetswereasfollows:
ResidentialMortgageLoans
Small-BalanceCommercialMortgageLoans
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201120102009201120102009(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
..............$
92,066$101,155$106,979$26,197$40,251$58,044
Originations...................13,92027,43031,034ŠŠŠ
Purchases.....................61,642593972ŠŠŠ
Assumedinloansecuritizations
(note19)
....................ŠŠ788ŠŠŠ
Consolidationofloansecuritization
trusts(note19)
...............Š
(1,843)ŠŠŠŠAmortization..................(36,364)(35,269)(38,618)(10,519)(14,054)(17,793)
131,26492,066101,15515,67826,19740,251
Valuationallowance
.............(1,800)Š(50)ŠŠŠ
Endingbalance,net
.............$129,464$92,066$101,105$15,678$26,197$40,251
128CommercialMortgageLoans
TotalForYearEndedDecember31,
201120102009201120102009(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
................$42,613$32,896$26,336$160,876$174,302$191,359
Originations....................17,61316,97612,41731,53344,40643,451
Purchases......................ŠŠŠ
61,642593972
Assumedinloansecuritizations
(note19)
.....................ŠŠŠŠŠ788
Consolidationofloansecuritization
trusts(note19)
................ŠŠŠŠ
(1,843)Š
Amortization....................(8,976)(7,259)(5,857)(55,859)(56,582)(62,268)
51,25042,61332,896198,192160,876174,302
Valuationallowance
..............ŠŠŠ
(1,800)Š(50)
Endingbalance,net
..............$51,250$42,613$32,896$196,392$160,876$174,252
Residentialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$36.3billion(including$14.3billionofsub-
servicedloans)atDecember31,2011and$15.9billionateachofDecember31,2010andDecember31,
2009.Loanssub-servicedforotherswerenotsignificantatDecember31,2010or2009.Small-balance

commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$4.4billion,$5.2billionand$5.5billionat

December31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.Commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$9.0

billion,$8.1billionand$7.1billionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.
During2011,aprovisionforimpairmentof$1,800,000wasaddedtothevaluationallowancefor
capitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetsbecausethecarryingvalueofcertainstrataof

capitalizedservicingassetsexceededestimatedfairvalue.During2010and2009,$50,000and$21,950,000,

respectively,ofthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswas

reversedbecauseofincreasesinthemarketvalueofcertainstrataofservicingassetsrelativetotheamortized

costbasisoftheservicingassetsinsuchstrata.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgage

loanservicingassetswasapproximately$168millionatDecember31,2011and$162millionat

December31,2010.Thefairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswasestimated

usingweighted-averagediscountratesof10.4%and13.2%atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,and

contemporaneousprepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,2011and2010,the

discountraterepresentedaweighted-averageoption-adjustedspread(ﬁOASﬂ)of978basispoints

(hundredthsofonepercent)and748basispoints,respectively,overmarketimpliedforwardLondon

InterbankOfferedRates.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloan

servicingassetswasapproximately$49millionatDecember31,2011and$58millionatDecember31,2010.

Thefairvalueofcapitalizedsmall-balancecommercialloanservicingassetswasestimatedusingweighted-

averagediscountratesof19.2%and19.7%atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,and

contemporaneousprepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,2011and2010,the

discountraterepresentedaweighted-averageOASof1,783basispointsand1,778basispoints,respectively,

overmarketimpliedforwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalized

residentialandsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsmayvarysignificantlyin

subsequentperiodsduetochanginginterestratesandtheeffectthereofonprepaymentspeeds.The

estimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapproximately$60million

and$50millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.An18%discountratewasusedtoestimatethe

fairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsatDecember31,2011and2010withno

prepaymentassumptionsbecause,ingeneral,theservicingagreementsallowtheCompanytosharein

customerloanprepaymentfeesandtherebyrecovertheremainingcarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicing

rightsassociatedwithsuchloan.TheCompany™sabilitytorealizethecarryingvalueofcapitalized

commercialmortgageloanservicingrightsismoredependentontheborrowers™abilitiestorepaythe

underlyingloansthanonprepaymentsorchangesininterestrates.
Thekeyeconomicassumptionsusedtodeterminethefairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsat
December31,2011andthesensitivityofsuchvaluetochangesinthoseassumptionsaresummarizedinthe

tablethatfollows.Thosecalculatedsensitivitiesarehypotheticalandactualchangesinthefairvalueof

capitalizedservicingrightsmaydiffersignificantlyfromtheamountspresentedherein.Theeffectofa
129variationinaparticularassumptiononthefairvalueoftheservicingrightsiscalculatedwithoutchanging
anyotherassumption.Inreality,changesinonefactormayresultinchangesinanotherwhichmaymagnify

orcounteractthesensitivities.Thechangesinassumptionsarepresumedtobeinstantaneous.
ResidentialSmall-BalanceCommercialCommercialWeighted-averageprepaymentspeeds
....................18.89%8.64%
Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
.............$
(9,777,000)$(2,051,000)
Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
.............(18,480,000)(3,932,000)
Weighted-averageOAS
................................9.78%17.83%
Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
.............$
(3,994,000)$(1,688,000)
Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
.............(7,711,000)(3,255,000)
Weighted-averagediscountrate
.........................18.00%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
.............$(2,633,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
.............(5,071,000)8.Goodwillandotherintangibleassets
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydoesnotamortizegoodwill,however,coredepositandother

intangibleassetsareamortizedovertheestimatedlifeofeachrespectiveasset.Totalamortizingintangible

assetswerecomprisedofthefollowing:
GrossCarrying
AmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarrying
Amount(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Coredeposit
..........................................$755,794$626,453$129,341
Other...............................................177,268130,21547,053
Total................................................$933,062$756,668$176,394
December31,2010
Coredeposit
..........................................$701,000$576,986$124,014
Other...............................................119,968118,0651,903
Total................................................$820,968$695,051$125,917
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetswasgenerallycomputedusingaccelerated
methodsoveroriginalamortizationperiodsoffivetotenyears.Theweighted-averageoriginalamortization

periodwasapproximatelyeightyears.Theremainingweighted-averageamortizationperiodasof

December31,2011wasapproximatelyfiveyears.Amortizationexpenseforcoredepositandother

intangibleassetswas$61,617,000,$58,103,000and$64,255,000fortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010

and2009,respectively.Estimatedamortizationexpenseinfutureyearsforsuchintangibleassetsisas

follows:(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2012.......................................................................$
60,6312013.......................................................................46,9122014.......................................................................33,8252015.......................................................................20,9382016.......................................................................10,052Lateryears
...................................................................4,036$176,394130InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycompletedannualgoodwillimpairmenttestsasof
October1,2011,2010and2009.Forpurposesoftestingforimpairment,theCompanyassignedallrecorded
goodwilltothereportingunitsoriginallyintendedtobenefitfrompastbusinesscombinations,whichhas

historicallybeentheCompany™scorerelationshipbusinessreportingunits.Goodwillwasgenerallyassigned

basedontheimpliedfairvalueoftheacquiredgoodwillapplicabletothebenefitedreportingunitsatthe

timeofeachrespectiveacquisition.Theimpliedfairvalueofthegoodwillwasdeterminedasthedifference

betweentheestimatedincrementaloverallfairvalueofthereportingunitandtheestimatedfairvalueofthe

netassetsassignedtothereportingunitasofeachrespectiveacquisitiondate.Totestforgoodwill

impairmentateachevaluationdate,theCompanycomparedtheestimatedfairvalueofeachofitsreporting

unitstotheirrespectivecarryingamountsandcertainotherassetsandliabilitiesassignedtothereporting

unit,includinggoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Themethodologiesusedtoestimate

fairvaluesofreportingunitsasoftheacquisitiondatesandasoftheevaluationdatesweresimilar.Forthe

Company™scorecustomerrelationshipbusinessreportingunits,fairvaluewasestimatedasthepresentvalue

oftheexpectedfuturecashflowsofthereportingunit.Basedontheresultsofthegoodwillimpairmenttests,

theCompanyconcludedthattheamountofrecordedgoodwillwasnotimpairedattherespectivetesting

dates.AsummaryofgoodwillassignedtoeachoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsasofDecember31,
2011and2010forpurposesoftestingforimpairmentisasfollows:
(Inthousands)
BusinessBanking
...............................................................$
748,907CommercialBanking
............................................................907,524CommercialRealEstate
..........................................................349,197DiscretionaryPortfolio
..........................................................Š
ResidentialMortgageBanking
.....................................................Š
RetailBanking
.................................................................1,144,404AllOther
......................................................................374,593Total.........................................................................$3,524,6251319.Borrowings
Theamountsandinterestratesofshort-termborrowingswereasfollows:
FederalFunds
PurchasedandRepurchaseAgreementsOtherShort-termBorrowingsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
AtDecember31,2011
Amountoutstanding
...................................$
732,059$50,023$782,082
Weighted-averageinterestrate
...........................0.04%0.70%0.09%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2011
Highestamountatamonth-end
.........................$1,389,237$142,927
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.......................706,749120,059$826,808
Weighted-averageinterestrate
...........................0.11%0.18%0.12%
AtDecember31,2010
Amountoutstanding
...................................$
866,555$80,877$947,432
Weighted-averageinterestrate
...........................0.19%0.20%0.19%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2010
.......................Highestamountatamonth-end
.........................$2,612,727$236,842
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.......................1,749,525104,508$1,854,033
Weighted-averageinterestrate
...........................0.15%0.33%0.16%
AtDecember31,2009
Amountoutstanding
...................................$2,211,692$230,890$2,442,582
Weighted-averageinterestrate
...........................0.04%0.66%0.10%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2009
Highestamountatamonth-end
.........................$2,491,573$2,049,727
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.......................1,885,4641,025,601$2,911,065
Weighted-averageinterestrate
...........................0.15%0.42%0.24%
Short-termborrowingshaveastatedmaturityofoneyearorlessatthedatetheCompanyentersinto
theobligation.Ingeneral,federalfundspurchasedandshort-termrepurchaseagreementsoutstandingat
December31,2011maturedonthenextbusinessdayfollowingyear-end.Othershort-termborrowings

included$50millionand$28millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,ofborrowingsfrom

FHLBs.Theremainingshort-termborrowingswerefromtheU.S.Treasuryandothers.
AtDecember31,2011,theCompanyhadlinesofcreditunderformalagreementsasfollows:
M&TM&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Inthousands)
Outstandingborrowings
.....................................$Š$
1,447,266$Š
Unused...................................................30,00017,473,71088,600
M&ThasarevolvingcreditagreementwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbankwherebyM&Tmay
borrowupto$30millionatitsdiscretionthroughDecember1,2012.AtDecember31,2011,M&TBank

hadborrowingfacilitiesavailablewiththeFHLBswherebyM&TBankcouldborrowuptoapproximately

$9.0billion.Additionally,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.ﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBankof

NewYorktotalingapproximately$10.0billionatDecember31,2011.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.arerequiredtopledgeloansandinvestmentsecuritiesascollateralfortheseborrowingfacilities.
132Long-termborrowingswereasfollows:
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
SeniornotesofM&TŠ5.375%due2012
................................$
299,991$299,971
AdvancesfromFHLB:
Variablerates
.....................................................1,000,0002,525,268
Fixedrates
.......................................................398,407347,161
Agreementstorepurchasesecurities
.....................................1,400,0001,625,001
SubordinatednotesofWilmingtonTrustCorporation
(awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T):
4.875%due2013
..................................................255,839Š
8.50%due2018
...................................................237,194Š
SubordinatednotesofM&TBank:
3.85%due2013,variableratecommencedin2008
.......................400,000400,000
6.625%due2017
..................................................452,655425,969
9.50%due2018
...................................................50,00050,000
5.585%due2020,variableratecommencing2015
.......................378,917372,668
5.629%due2021,variableratecommencing2016
.......................589,516568,196
JuniorsubordinateddebenturesofM&Tassociatedwithpreferredcapital
securities:
Fixedrates:
M&TCapitalTrustIŠ8.234%,due2027
...........................154,640154,640
M&TCapitalTrustIIŠ8.277%,due2027
...........................103,093103,093
M&TCapitalTrustIIIŠ9.25%,due2027
...........................66,75967,084
BSBCapitalTrustIŠ8.125%,due2028
.............................15,54215,519
ProvidentTrustIŠ8.29%,due2028
...............................24,48324,256
SouthernFinancialStatutoryTrustIŠ10.60%,due2030
...............6,4746,455
M&TCapitalTrustIVŠ8.50%,due2068
...........................350,010350,010
Variablerates:
FirstMarylandCapitalIŠdue2027
................................143,564143,025
FirstMarylandCapitalIIŠdue2027
...............................144,638143,975
AllfirstAssetTrustŠdue2029
....................................95,76895,623
BSBCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
..................................15,46415,464
ProvidentTrustIIIŠdue2033
....................................51,24450,823
SouthernFinancialCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
......................7,6237,566
Other.............................................................44,40548,384
$6,686,226$7,840,151
Long-termvariablerateadvancesfromtheFHLBshadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom
0.26%to0.36%atDecember31,2011andfrom0.24%to2.00%atDecember31,2010.Theweighted-
averagecontractualinterestrateswere0.29%atDecember31,2011and0.32%atDecember31,2010.Long-

termfixedrateadvancesfromtheFHLBshadcontractualinterestratesrangingfrom0.79%to7.32%at

December31,2011and3.48%to7.32%atDecember31,2010.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterest

ratespayablewere3.52%atDecember31,2011and4.33%atDecember31,2010.AdvancesfromtheFHLBs

matureatvariousdatesthrough2035andaresecuredbyresidentialrealestateloans,commercialrealestate

loansandinvestmentsecurities.
Long-termagreementstorepurchasesecuritieshadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom3.61%
to4.30%atDecember31,2011and3.69%to5.14%atDecember31,2010.Theweighted-average

contractualinterestrateswere3.90%atDecember31,2011and4.16%atDecember31,2010.The
133agreementsoutstandingatDecember31,2011reflectvariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,the
contractualmaturitiesoftheunderlyinginvestmentsecuritiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.
ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankandWilmingtonTrustCorporationareunsecuredandare
subordinatetotheclaimsofothercreditorsofthoseentities.ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankdue

2013hadafixedrateofinterestof3.85%throughMarch2008andbearafloatingrateofinterestthereafter

untilmaturityinApril2013,atarateequaltothethree-monthLondonInterbankOfferedRate(ﬁLIBORﬂ)

plus1.50%.Thatvariableratewas1.87%atDecember31,2011and1.79%atDecember31,2010.
ThefixedandfloatingratejuniorsubordinateddeferrableinterestdebenturesofM&T(ﬁJunior
SubordinatedDebenturesﬂ)areheldbyvarioustrustsandwereissuedinconnectionwiththeissuanceby

thosetrustsofpreferredcapitalsecurities(ﬁCapitalSecuritiesﬂ)andcommonsecurities(ﬁCommon

Securitiesﬂ).TheproceedsfromtheissuancesoftheCapitalSecuritiesandtheCommonSecuritieswereused

bythetruststopurchasetheJuniorSubordinatedDebentures.TheCommonSecuritiesofeachofthose

trustsarewhollyownedbyM&Tandaretheonlyclassofeachtrust™ssecuritiespossessinggeneralvoting

powers.TheCapitalSecuritiesrepresentpreferredundividedinterestsintheassetsofthecorresponding

trust.UndertheFederalReserveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelines,theCapitalSecuritiesare

includableinM&T™sTier1capital.However,theDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtection

ActthatwassignedintolawonJuly21,2010providesforathree-yearphase-inrelatedtotheexclusionof

trustpreferredcapitalsecuritiesfromTier1capitalforlargefinancialinstitutions,includingM&T.That

phase-inperiodbeginsonJanuary1,2013.ThevariablerateJuniorSubordinatedDebenturespayinterest

quarterlyatratesthatareindexedtothethree-monthLIBOR.Thoseratesrangedfrom1.28%to3.92%at

December31,2011andfrom1.14%to3.64%atDecember31,2010.Theweighted-averagevariablerates

payableonthoseJuniorSubordinatedDebentureswere1.87%and1.72%atDecember31,2011and2010,

respectively.HoldersoftheCapitalSecuritiesreceivepreferentialcumulativecashdistributionsunlessM&T
exercisesitsrighttoextendthepaymentofinterestontheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasallowedbythe

termsofeachsuchdebenture,inwhichcasepaymentofdistributionsontherespectiveCapitalSecurities

willbedeferredforcomparableperiods.Duringanextendedinterestperiod,M&Tmaynotpaydividendsor

distributionson,orrepurchase,redeemoracquireanysharesofitscapitalstock.Intheeventofanextended

interestperiodexceedingtwentyquarterlyperiodsfor$350millionofJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesdue

January31,2068,M&Tmustfundthepaymentofaccruedandunpaidinterestthroughanalternative

paymentmechanism,whichrequiresM&Ttoissuecommonstock,non-cumulativeperpetualpreferred

stockorwarrantstopurchasecommonstockuntilM&Thasraisedanamountofeligibleproceedsatleast

equaltotheaggregateamountofaccruedandunpaiddeferredinterestontheJuniorSubordinated

DebenturesdueJanuary31,2068.Ingeneral,theagreementsgoverningtheCapitalSecurities,inthe

aggregate,provideafull,irrevocableandunconditionalguaranteebyM&Tofthepaymentofdistributions

on,theredemptionof,andanyliquidationdistributionwithrespecttotheCapitalSecurities.The

obligationsundersuchguaranteeandtheCapitalSecuritiesaresubordinateandjuniorinrightofpayment

toallseniorindebtednessofM&T.
TheCapitalSecuritieswillremainoutstandinguntiltheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesarerepaid
atmaturity,areredeemedpriortomaturityoraredistributedinliquidationtotheTrusts.TheCapital

Securitiesaremandatorilyredeemableinwhole,butnotinpart,uponrepaymentatthestatedmaturity

dates(rangingfrom2027to2068)oftheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesortheearlierredemptionofthe

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeupontheoccurrenceofoneormoreeventssetforthinthe

indenturesrelatingtotheCapitalSecurities,andinwholeorinpartatanytimeafteranoptional

redemptionpriortocontractualmaturitycontemporaneouslywiththeoptionalredemptionoftherelated

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeorinpart,subjecttopossibleregulatoryapproval.Inconnection

withtheissuanceof8.50%EnhancedTrustPreferredSecuritiesassociatedwith$350millionofJunior

SubordinatedDebenturesmaturingin2068,M&Tenteredintoareplacementcapitalcovenantthatprovides

thatneitherM&Tnoranyofitssubsidiarieswillrepay,redeemorpurchaseanyoftheJuniorSubordinated

DebenturesdueJanuary31,2068orthe8.50%EnhancedTrustPreferredSecuritiespriortoJanuary31,

2048,withcertainlimitedexceptions,excepttotheextentthat,duringthe180dayspriortothedateofthat

repayment,redemptionorpurchase,M&Tanditssubsidiarieshavereceivedproceedsfromthesaleof

qualifyingsecuritiesthat(i)haveequity-likecharacteristicsthatarethesameas,ormoreequity-likethan,

theapplicablecharacteristicsofthe8.50%EnhancedTrustPreferredSecuritiesortheJuniorSubordinated

DebenturesdueJanuary31,2068,asapplicable,atthetimeofrepayment,redemptionorpurchase,and

(ii)M&ThasobtainedthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoard,ifrequired.
134Long-termborrowingsatDecember31,2011matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2012.......................................................................$
1,671,7342013.......................................................................660,0842014.......................................................................19,8222015.......................................................................4,2722016.......................................................................804,663Lateryears
...................................................................3,525,651$6,686,22610.Shareholders™equity
M&Tisauthorizedtoissue1,000,000sharesofpreferredstockwitha$1.00parvaluepershare.Preferred
sharesoutstandingrankseniortocommonsharesbothastodividendsandliquidationpreference,buthave

nogeneralvotingrights.
IssuedandoutstandingpreferredstockofM&Tispresentedbelow:
December31,2011
December31,2010
SharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValueSharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValue(Dollarsinthousands)
SeriesA(a)(d)
FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
.....230,000$224,277600,000$578,630
SeriesB(b)

SeriesBMandatoryConvertibleNon-cumulativePreferred
Stock,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare........ŠŠ
26,50026,500
SeriesC(a)(c)

FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesC,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
.....151,500140,308151,500135,527
SeriesD(e)

FixedRateNon-cumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesD,$10,000liquidationpreferencepershare
....50,000500,000ŠŠ
(a)ShareswereissuedaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgramoftheU.S.
Treasury.Cashproceedswereallocatedbetweenthepreferredstockandaten-yearwarranttopurchaseM&T
commonstock(SeriesAŠ1,218,522commonsharesat$73.86pershare,SeriesCŠ407,542commonsharesat

$55.76pershare).Dividends,ifdeclared,willaccrueandbepaidquarterlyatarateof5%peryearforthefirst

fiveyearsfollowingtheoriginal2008issuancedatesandthereafteratarateof9%peryear.Theagreementwith

theU.S.TreasurycontainslimitationsoncertainactionsofM&T,includingthepaymentofquarterlycash

dividendsonM&T™scommonstockinexcessof$.70pershare,therepurchaseofitscommonstockduringthefirst

threeyearsoftheagreement,andtheamountandnatureofcompensationarrangementsforcertainofthe

Company™sofficers.
(b)ShareswereassumedintheProvidentacquisitionandanewSeriesBPreferredStockwasdesignated.Pursuantto
theirterms,thesharesofSeriesBPreferredStockwereconvertedinto433,144sharesofM&Tcommonstockon

April1,2011.TheSeriesBPreferredStockhadastateddividendrateof10%peryear.
(c)ShareswereassumedintheProvidentacquisitionandanewSeriesCPreferredStockwasdesignated.
(d)OnMay18,2011,M&Tredeemedandretired370,000sharesoftheSeriesAPreferredStock.Accelerated
amortizationofpreferredstockdiscountassociatedwiththeredemptionwas$11.2million.
(e)ShareswereissuedonMay31,2011.Dividends,ifdeclared,willbepaidsemi-annuallyatarateof6.875%per
year.ThesharesareredeemableinwholeorinpartonorafterJune15,2016.NotwithstandingM&T™soptionto
redeemtheshares,ifaneventoccurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1Capital,M&Tmayredeem

alloftheshareswithin90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.
13511.Stock-basedcompensationplans
Stock-basedcompensationexpensewas$56millionin2011and$54millionineachof2010and2009.The
Companyrecognizedincometaxbenefitsrelatedtostock-basedcompensationof$22millionin2011,

$20millionin2010and$17millionin2009.
TheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplanallowsfortheissuanceofvariousformsof
stock-basedcompensation,includingstockoptions,restrictedstock,restrictedstockunitsandperformance-

basedawards.ThroughDecember31,2011,onlystock-basedcompensationawards,includingstock

options,restrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,thatvestwiththepassageoftimeasserviceisprovided

havebeenissued.AtDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,therewere5,619,632and5,959,828shares

availableforfuturegrantundertheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplan.
Restrictedstockawards
Restrictedstockawardsarecomprisedofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits.Restrictedstockawards
generallyvestoverfouryears.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockwas

$28millionasofDecember31,2011andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.5years.TheCompanygenerallywillissuerestrictedsharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailable,but

mayalsoissuenewshares.During2011,2010and2009,thenumberofrestrictedsharesissuedwas451,248,

423,002and709,415,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$38,369,000,$31,880,000

and$27,932,000,respectively.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockunits

was$7millionasofDecember31,2011andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.2years.During2011,2010and2009thenumberofrestrictedstockunitsissuedwas242,282,231,037and

578,131,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$20,921,000,$17,039,000and

$22,663,000,respectively.
Asummaryofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitactivityfollows:
RestrictedStockUnits
OutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
RestrictedStockOutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
UnvestedatJanuary1,2011
........................719,976$49.99965,072$52.81
Granted.........................................242,28286.35451,24885.03
Vested..........................................(148,189)46.17(290,034)61.50
Cancelled.......................................(12,606)73.73(34,921)64.37
UnvestedatDecember31,2011
.....................801,463$61.311,091,365$63.45
Stockoptionawards
Stockoptionsissuedgenerallyvestoverfouryearsandareexercisableovertermsnotexceedingtenyears
andoneday.TheCompanyusedanoptionpricingmodeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueofstock

optionsgranted.Stockoptionsgrantedin2011,2010and2009werenotsignificant.
136Asummaryofstockoptionactivityfollows:
StockOptionsOutstandingWeighted-AverageAggregateIntrinsicValue
(Inthousands)
ExercisePriceLife(InYears)
OutstandingatJanuary1,2011
.....................10,578,415$97.35
Granted........................................100
86.47Exercised.......................................(449,022)70.76
Cancelled.......................................(22,483)91.80
Expired........................................(267,062)104.89
OutstandingatDecember31,2011
..................9,839,948$98.373.8$3,075
ExercisableatDecember31,2011
...................8,775,638$99.503.5$1,497
For2011,2010and2009,M&Treceived$28million,$55millionand$15million,respectively,in
cashandrealizedtaxbenefitsfromtheexerciseofstockoptionsof$3million,$7millionand$3million,
respectively.Theintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsexercisedduringthoseperiodswas$7million,$21million

and$6million,respectively.AsofDecember31,2011,theamountofunrecognizedcompensationcost

relatedtonon-vestedstockoptionswasnotsignificant.Thetotalgrantdatefairvalueofstockoptions

vestedduring2011,2010and2009was$29million,$38millionand$37million,respectively.Uponthe

exerciseofstockoptions,theCompanygenerallyissuessharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailable,

butmayalsoissuenewshares.
Stockpurchaseplan
ThestockpurchaseplanprovideseligibleemployeesoftheCompanywiththerighttopurchasesharesof
M&Tcommonstockthroughaccumulatedpayrolldeductions.SharesofM&Tcommonstockwillbeissued

attheendofanoptionperiod,typicallyoneyearorsixmonths.Inconnectionwiththeemployeestock

purchaseplan,1,000,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereauthorizedforissuance,ofwhich

568,886shareshavebeenissued.Therewerenosharesissuedin2011,170,405sharesissuedin2010and

3,149sharesissuedin2009.For2010and2009,respectively,M&Treceived$8,998,000and$100,000incash

forsharespurchasedthroughtheemployeestockpurchaseplan.TheCompanyusedanoptionpricing

modeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueofpurchaserightsunderthestockpurchaseplan.

Compensationexpenserecognizedforthestockpurchaseplanwasnotsignificantin2011,2010or2009.
Deferredbonusplan
TheCompanyprovidedadeferredbonusplanpursuanttowhicheligibleemployeescouldelecttodeferall
oraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestment

options,includingM&Tcommonstock.Participantscouldelectthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.

SuchdistributionsarepayableincashwiththeexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstock

whicharedistributableintheformofM&Tcommonstock.SharesofM&Tcommonstockdistributable

pursuanttothetermsofthedeferredbonusplanwere48,136and51,439atDecember31,2011and2010,

respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedinﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidated

balancesheet.ThroughDecember31,2011,122,151shareshavebeenissuedinconnectionwiththedeferred

bonusplan.
Directors™stockplan
TheCompanymaintainsacompensationplanfornon-employeemembersoftheCompany™sboardsof
directorsanddirectorsadvisorycouncilsthatallowssuchmemberstoreceivealloraportionoftheir

compensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.ThroughDecember31,2011,164,961shareshadbeen

issuedinconnectionwiththedirectors™stockplan.
Throughacquisitions,theCompanyassumedobligationstoissuesharesofM&Tcommonstock
relatedtodeferreddirectorscompensationplans.Sharesofcommonstockissuableundersuchplanswere

20,084and19,906atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedin

ﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
137Managementstockownershipprogram
Throughanacquisition,M&TobtainedloansthatweresecuredbyM&Tcommonstockpurchasedby
formerexecutivesoftheacquiredentity.AtDecember31,2009,theloanamountsowedM&Twerelessthan

thefairvalueofthefinancedstockpurchasedandtotaledapproximately$4million.Suchloanswere

classifiedasareductionofﬁadditionalpaid-incapitalﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatthatdate.The

amountsduetoM&Twererepaidinfullduring2010.
12.Pensionplansandotherpostretirementbenefits
TheCompanyprovidespension(definedbenefitanddefinedcontributionplans)andotherpostretirement

benefits(includingdefinedbenefithealthcareandlifeinsuranceplans)toqualifiedretiredemployees.The

CompanyusesaDecember31measurementdateforallofitsplans.
Netperiodicpensionexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
Servicecost
..................................................$
28,828$19,670$19,483
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
................................58,54547,90546,107
Expectedreturnonplanassets
..................................(60,700)(50,844)(46,976)
Amortizationofpriorservicecost
................................(6,559)(6,559)(6,559)
Recognizednetactuarialloss
....................................20,53013,5518,292
Netperiodicpensionexpense
...................................$
40,644$23,723$20,347
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
Servicecost
.......................................................$535$383$353
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
.....................................3,7613,1303,302
Amortizationofpriorservicecost
.....................................107176243
Recognizednetactuarialloss
.........................................36(9)
(19)Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpense
..............................$4,439$3,680$3,879
138Datarelatingtothefundingpositionofthedefinedbenefitplanswereasfollows:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
2011201020112010(Inthousands)
Changeinbenefitobligation:
Benefitobligationatbeginningofyear
.............$
947,993$857,122$61,675$56,575
Servicecost
...................................28,82819,670535383
Interestcost
...................................58,54547,9053,7613,130
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,3832,776
Actuarial(gain)loss
............................194,62264,06110,3036,433
Settlements/curtailments........................Š
(3,231)ŠŠ
Businesscombinations
..........................315,210Š20,689Š
MedicarePartDreimbursement
..................ŠŠ715789
Benefitspaid
..................................(48,708)(37,534)(10,957)(8,411)
Benefitobligationatendofyear
..................1,496,490947,99390,10461,675
Changeinplanassets:
Fairvalueofplanassetsatbeginningofyear
........838,465766,880ŠŠ
Actualreturnonplanassets
......................(6,635)107,846ŠŠ
Employercontributions
.........................75,6004,5046,8594,846
Businesscombinations
..........................259,250ŠŠŠ
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,3832,776
MedicarePartDreimbursement
..................ŠŠ715789
Settlements...................................Š
(3,231)ŠŠ
Benefitsandotherpayments
.....................(48,708)(37,534)(10,957)(8,411)
Fairvalueofplanassetsatendofyear
..............1,117,972838,465ŠŠ
Fundedstatus
...................................$
(378,518)$(109,528)$(90,104)$(61,675)
Assetsandliabilitiesrecognizedintheconsolidated
balancesheetwere:
Netprepaidasset
..............................$
2,878$6,629$Š$Š
Accruedliabilities
..............................(381,396)(116,157)(90,104)(61,675)
Amountsrecognizedinaccumulatedother
comprehensiveincome(ﬁAOCIﬂ)were:

Netloss
......................................$
474,153$232,725$12,845$2,577
Netpriorservicecost
...........................(30,014)(36,572)161269
Pre-taxadjustmenttoAOCI
.....................444,139196,15313,0062,846
Taxes........................................(174,324)(76,990)(5,105)(1,117)
NetadjustmenttoAOCI.
........................$
269,815$119,163$7,901$1,729
TheCompanyhasanunfundedsupplementalpensionplanforcertainkeyexecutives.Theprojected
benefitobligationandaccumulatedbenefitobligationincludedintheprecedingdatarelatedtosuchplan
were$124,877,000and$123,085,000respectively,asofDecember31,2011and$66,254,000and$66,208,000

respectively,asofDecember31,2010.TheincreasesfromDecember31,2010wereprimarilytheresultof

theWilmingtonTrustacquisition,whichaddedapproximately$45milliontoeachoftheprojectedbenefit

obligationandtheaccumulatedbenefitobligationasoftheMay16,2011acquisitiondate.
Theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforalldefinedbenefitpensionplanswas$1,472,140,000and
$929,775,000atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.AsofDecember31,2011,theaccumulated
139benefitobligationforthosedefinedbenefitpensionplansinwhichsuchobligationexceededplanassets
totaled$1,422,958,000(including$123,085,000relatedtotheunfundedsupplementalpensionplan).Asof

December31,2010,theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforthosedefinedbenefitpensionplansinwhich

suchobligationexceededplanassetstotaled$884,269,000(including$66,208,000relatedtotheunfunded

supplementalpensionplan).
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpense,are

recognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.Asindicatedintheprecedingtable,asof

December31,2011theCompanyrecordedaminimumliabilityadjustmentof$457,145,000($444,139,000

relatedtopensionplansand$13,006,000relatedtootherpostretirementbenefits)withacorresponding

reductionofshareholders™equity,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,of$277,716,000.Inaggregate,thebenefit

plansincurredanetlossduring2011thatresultedfromactualexperiencedifferingfromtheplan

assumptionsutilizedandfromchangesinactuarialassumptions.Themainfactorcontributingtothose

losseswasareductioninthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsatDecember31,2011to

4.25%fromthe5.25%rateusedatDecember31,2010,inadditiontoactualinvestmentreturnsinthe

qualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanthatwerelessthanexpectedreturns.Asaresult,theCompany

increaseditsminimumliabilityadjustmentfromthatwhichwasrecordedatDecember31,2010by

$258,146,000withacorrespondingdecreasetoshareholders™equitythat,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,

was$156,824,000.Thetablebelowreflectsthechangesinplanassetsandbenefitobligationsrecognizedin

othercomprehensiveincomerelatedtotheCompany™spostretirementbenefitplans.
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
Total(Inthousands)
2011Netloss
................................................$261,957$10,303$272,260
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit
.....................6,559(107)6,452
Amortizationofloss
......................................(20,530)(36)(20,566)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
........$247,986$10,160$258,146
2010
Netloss
................................................$
7,057$6,433$13,490
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit
.....................6,559(176)6,383
Amortizationof(loss)gain
.................................(13,551)9(13,542)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
........$65$
6,266$6,331
Thefollowingtablereflectstheamortizationofamountsinaccumulatedothercomprehensive
incomeexpectedtoberecognizedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpenseduring2012:
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
(Inthousands)
Amortizationofnetpriorservicecost(credit)
............................$
(6,559)$20
Amortizationofnetloss
..............................................34,281427
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaqualifieddefinedcontributionpensionplantoeligibleemployeeswho
werenotparticipantsinthedefinedbenefitpensionplanasofDecember31,2005andtootheremployees
whohaveelectedtoparticipateinthedefinedcontributionplan.TheCompanymakescontributionstothe

definedcontributionplaneachyearinanamountthatisbasedonanindividualparticipant™stotal

compensation(generallydefinedastotalwages,incentivecompensation,commissionsandbonuses)and
140yearsofservice.Participantsdonotcontributetothedefinedcontributionpensionplan.Pensionexpense
recordedin2011,2010and2009associatedwiththedefinedcontributionpensionplanwasapproximately

$13million,$14millionand$11million,respectively.
AssumptionsTheassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminebenefitobligationsatDecember31were:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits2011201020112010Discountrate
.....................................................4.25%5.25%4.25%5.25%
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
...........................4.50%4.50%ŠŠ
Theassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminenetbenefitexpensefortheyearsended
December31were:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
201120102009201120102009Discountrate
........................................5.25%5.75%6.00%5.25%5.75%6.00%
Long-termrateofreturnonplanassets
...................6.50%6.50%6.50%ŠŠŠ
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
..............4.50%4.50%4.60%ŠŠŠ
OnMay16,2011pensionandotherbenefitobligationswereassumedasaresultoftheacquisitionof
WilmingtonTrust.Initialliabilitiesandnetcostsweredeterminedusinga5.25%discountrate,a4.0%
increaseincompensationanda6.50%expectedreturnonassets.
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionasofeachmeasurementdatewasdeveloped
throughanalysisofhistoricalmarketreturns,currentmarketconditions,anticipatedfutureassetallocations,

thefunds™pastexperience,andexpectationsonpotentialfuturemarketreturns.Theexpectedrateofreturn

assumptionrepresentsalong-termaverageviewoftheperformanceoftheplanassets,areturnthatmayor

maynotbeachievedduringanyonecalendaryear.
Formeasurementofotherpostretirementbenefits,an8.0%annualrateofincreaseinthepercapita
costofcoveredhealthcarebenefitswasassumedfor2012.Theratewasassumedtodecreaseto5%over

30years.Assumedhealthcarecosttrendrateshaveasignificanteffectontheamountsreportedforhealth

careplans.Aone-percentagepointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrendrateswouldhavehadthe

followingeffects:
+1%-1%(Inthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Serviceandinterestcost
.....................................................$149$
(134)Accumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation
..................................3,686(3,288)
141PlanAssets
TheCompany™spolicyistoinvestthepensionplanassetsinaprudentmannerforthepurposeofproviding
benefitpaymentstoparticipantsandmitigatingreasonableexpensesofadministration.TheCompany™s

investmentstrategyisdesignedtoprovideatotalreturnthat,overthelong-term,placesastrongemphasis

onthepreservationofcapital.Thestrategyattemptstomaximizeinvestmentreturnsonassetsatalevelof

riskdeemedappropriatebytheCompanywhilecomplyingwithapplicableregulationsandlaws.The

investmentstrategyutilizesassetallocationasaprincipaldeterminantforestablishinganappropriaterisk

profile.Thetargetallocationsforplanassetsaregenerally55to70percentequitysecurities,25to40percent

debtsecurities,and3to10percentmoney-marketfundsorothershort-terminvestments,although

holdingscouldbemoreorlessthanthesegeneralguidelinesbasedonmarketconditionsatthetimeand

actionstakenorrecommendedbytheinvestmentmanagersprovidingadvicetotheCompany.Equity

securitiesincludeinvestmentsinlarge-capandmid-capcompanieslocatedintheUnitedStates,equity

mutualfundswithinternationalinvestments,and,toalesserextent,directinvestmentsinforeign-based

companies.Debtsecuritiesincludecorporatebondsofcompaniesfromdiversifiedindustries,mortgage-

backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernmentagencies,U.S.Treasurysecurities,andmutualfundsthatinvest

indebtsecurities.Additionally,primarilyasaresultoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,theCompany™s

definedbenefitpensionplansheld$77,351,000(7%oftotalassets)ofrealestate,privateequityandother

investmentsatDecember31,2011.Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarket

indicesforeachassettypetoaidmanagementinevaluatingsuchreturns.Furthermore,management

regularlyreviewstheinvestmentpolicyandmay,ifdeemedappropriate,makechangestothetarget

allocationsnotedabove.
ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2011,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2011
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
.......................$
63,842$63,842$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T..................................
93,74093,740ŠŠ
Domestic(a)............................151,235151,235ŠŠ
International............................8,2648,264ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic.............................125,223125,223ŠŠ
International..........................127,071127,071ŠŠ
505,533505,533
ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b)............................275,079Š275,079Š
Government............................88,261Š88,261Š
International............................7,586Š7,586Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c)..........................72,68072,680ŠŠ
International..........................23,23423,234ŠŠ
466,84095,914370,926Š
Other:Realassetsecurities
.......................17,55717,557ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
........................4,677ŠŠ4,677
Privateequity
...........................10,190ŠŠ10,190
Hedgefunds
............................44,927ŠŠ44,927
77,35117,557
Š59,794
Total(d)..................................$1,113,566$682,846$370,926$59,794
142ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2010,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2010
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
...........................$
26,389$26,389$ŠŠ
Equitysecurities:
M&T......................................
106,891106,891ŠŠ
Domestic(a)................................148,218148,218ŠŠ
International................................9,6909,690ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic.................................54,03954,039ŠŠ
International..............................150,961150,961ŠŠ
469,799469,799
ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b)................................204,899Š204,899Š
Government................................65,589Š65,589Š
International................................7,143Š7,143Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c)..............................35,59435,594ŠŠ
International..............................25,49125,491ŠŠ
338,71661,085277,631Š
Total(d)......................................$834,904$557,273$277,631Š
(a)Thiscategoryiscomprisedofequitiesofcompaniesprimarilywithinthemid-capandlarge-capsectoroftheU.S.
economyandrangeacrossdiverseindustries.
(b)ThiscategoryrepresentsinvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersfromdiverseindustries.
(c)Approximately50%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersand50%in
high-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2011.Approximately30%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestment
gradebondsofU.S.issuersand70%inhigh-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2010.Theholdingswithinthefunds

arespreadacrossdiverseindustries.
(d)Excludesdividendsandinterestreceivabletotaling$4,406,000and$3,561,000atDecember31,2011and2010,
respectively.PensionplanassetsincludedcommonstockofM&Twithafairvalueof$93,740,000(8.4%oftotal
planassets)atDecember31,2011and$106,891,000(12.7%oftotalplanassets)atDecember31,2010.No
investmentinsecuritiesofanon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceededtenpercentof

planassetsatDecember31,2011.
ThechangesinLevel3pensionplanassetsmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2011wereasfollows:
BalanceŒ
January1,
2011PurchasesTotalRealized/UnrealizedGains(Losses)
BalanceŒ
December31,
2011(Inthousands)
OtherPrivaterealestate
...................................Š$
4,093$584$4,677
Privateequity
......................................Š
8,4821,70810,190
Hedgefunds
.......................................Š
47,836(2,909)44,927
Total.........................................Š
$60,411$(617)$59,794
143TheCompanymakescontributionstoitsfundedqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplansasrequired
bygovernmentregulationorasdeemedappropriatebymanagementafterconsideringfactorssuchasthe
fairvalueofplanassets,expectedreturnsonsuchassets,andthepresentvalueofbenefitobligationsofthe

plans.Subjecttotheimpactofactualeventsandcircumstancesthatmayoccurin2012,theCompanymay

makecontributionstothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplansin2012,buttheamountofanysuch

contributionhasnotyetbeendetermined.TheCompanymadeacashcontributionof$70milliontothe

qualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplansin2011.TheCompany™scontributionstothequalifieddefined

benefitpensionplanstotaled$44millionin2009intheformofcommonstockofM&T.TheCompanydid

notmakeanycontributionstothoseplansin2010.TheCompanyregularlyfundsthepaymentofbenefit

obligationsforthesupplementaldefinedbenefitpensionandpostretirementbenefitplansbecausesuch

plansdonotholdassetsforinvestment.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyforsupplementalpensionbenefits

were$5,600,000and$4,504,000in2011and2010,respectively.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyfor

postretirementbenefitswere$6,859,000and$4,846,000in2011and2010,respectively.Paymentsfor

supplementalpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsfor2012arenotexpectedtodifferfromthosemade

in2011byanamountthatwillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
EstimatedbenefitsexpectedtobepaidinfutureyearsrelatedtotheCompany™sdefinedbenefit
pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsplansareasfollows:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2012.............................................................$
57,243$8,834
2013.............................................................61,2038,542
2014.............................................................65,4758,330
2015.............................................................68,7778,107
2016.............................................................75,4807,918
2017through2021
.................................................431,24835,708
TheCompanyhasaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplaninwhich
eligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributionstothe
plan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofanemployee™s

contribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.Employees™accounts,including

employeecontributions,employermatchingcontributionsandaccumulatedearningsthereon,areatall

timesfullyvestedandnonforfeitable.EmployeebenefitsexpenseresultingfromtheCompany™s

contributionstotheRSPtotaled$27,738,000,$24,683,000and$23,719,000in2011,2010and2009,

respectively.13.Incometaxes
Thecomponentsofincometaxexpense(benefit)wereasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
CurrentFederal...................................................$277,631$250,489$52,792
Stateandcity
..............................................53,56655,0714,107
Totalcurrent
............................................331,197305,56056,899
DeferredFederal...................................................34,32547,12367,372
Stateandcity
..............................................(401)3,94515,129
Totaldeferred
...........................................33,92451,06882,501
Totalincometaxesapplicabletopre-taxincome
...............$365,121$356,628$139,400
144TheCompanyfilesaconsolidatedfederalincometaxreturnreflectingtaxableincomeearnedbyall
domesticsubsidiaries.Inprioryears,applicablefederaltaxlawallowedcertainfinancialinstitutionsthe
optionofdeductingasbaddebtexpensefortaxpurposesamountsinexcessofactuallosses.Inaccordance

withGAAP,suchfinancialinstitutionswerenotrequiredtoprovidedeferredincometaxesonsuchexcess.

Recaptureoftheexcesstaxbaddebtreserveestablishedunderthepreviouslyallowedmethodwillresultin

taxableincomeifM&TBankfailstomaintainbankstatusasdefinedintheInternalRevenueCodeor

chargesaremadetothereserveforotherthanbaddebtlosses.AtDecember31,2011,M&TBank™staxbad

debtreserveforwhichnofederalincometaxeshavebeenprovidedwas$79,121,000.Noactionsareplanned

thatwouldcausethisreservetobecomewhollyorpartiallytaxable.
Incometaxesattributabletogainsorlossesonbankinvestmentsecuritieswereanexpenseof
$28,712,000in2011andbenefitsof$32,778,000and$53,824,000in2010and2009,respectively.No

alternativeminimumtaxexpensewasrecognizedin2011,2010or2009.
Totalincometaxesdifferedfromtheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometax
ratetopre-taxincomeasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
Incometaxesatstatutoryfederalincometaxrate
...................$428,610$382,476$181,752
Increase(decrease)intaxes:
Tax-exemptincome
........................................(33,799)(32,466)(31,071)
Stateandcityincometaxes,netoffederalincometaxeffect
........34,55738,36012,503
Lowincomehousingcredits
.................................(40,763)(29,882)(20,749)
Non-taxablegainonacquisition
..............................(22,725)ŠŠ
Other....................................................(759)(1,860)(3,035)
$365,121$356,628$139,400
Deferredtaxassets(liabilities)werecomprisedofthefollowingatDecember31:
201120102009(Inthousands)
Lossesonloansandotherassets
.............................$
896,219$550,970$642,427
Postretirementandotheremployeebenefits
...................39,99228,13525,770
Incentivecompensationplans
..............................49,18327,38827,835
Interestonloans
.........................................46,96543,56335,772
Retirementbenefits
.......................................147,99742,42234,851
Stock-basedcompensation
.................................78,01470,64169,881
Unrealizedinvestmentlosses
...............................50,52854,557140,821
Depreciationandamortization
..............................9,56313,3326,274
Other..................................................99,01251,76840,281
Grossdeferredtaxassets
.................................1,417,473882,7761,023,912
Leasingtransactions
......................................(294,150)(294,510)(306,799)
Capitalizedservicingrights
.................................(17,603)(14,739)(8,412)
Interestonsubordinatednoteexchange
......................(11,275)(13,534)(15,051)
Other..................................................(48,803)(36,080)(32,617)
Grossdeferredtaxliabilities
..............................(371,831)(358,863)(362,879)
Netdeferredtaxasset
.....................................$1,045,642$523,913$661,033
TheCompanybelievesthatitismorelikelythannotthatthedeferredtaxassetswillberealized
throughtaxableearningsoralternativetaxstrategies.
TheincometaxcreditsshowninthestatementofincomeofM&Tinnote26ariseprincipallyfrom
operatinglossesbeforedividendsfromsubsidiaries.
145Areconciliationofthebeginningandendingamountofunrecognizedtaxbenefitsfollows:
Federal,Stateand
LocalTax
AccruedInterestUnrecognizedIncomeTax
Benefits(Inthousands)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatJanuary1,2009
.......................................$38,287$17,556$55,843
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2009
.............400Š400
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduringprioryears
........Š
3,6753,675
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination....................................................................(9,902)(1,392)(11,294)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
..........(825)(331)(1,156)
Unrecognizedtaxbenefitsacquiredinabusinesscombination
..............................337Š337
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2009
....................................28,29719,50847,805
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduringprioryears
........Š
11,46811,468
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination....................................................................(1,403)(670)(2,073)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
..........(967)(549)(1,516)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
...........(1,074)(9,061)(10,135)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2010
....................................24,85320,69645,549
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2011
.............4,659Š4,659
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
..........(9,742)(5,497)(15,239)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
...........Š
(1,645)(1,645)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination....................................................................(8,471)(8,201)(16,672)
Unrecognizedtaxbenefitsacquiredinabusinesscombination
..............................7,0343,92410,958
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2011
....................................$18,333$9,27727,610
Less:Federal,stateandlocalincometaxbenefits
.........................................(9,018)NetunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2011that,ifrecognized,wouldimpacttheeffective
incometaxrate
..................................................................$18,592TheCompany™spolicyistorecognizeinterestandpenalties,ifany,relatedtounrecognizedtax
benefitsinincometaxesintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Thebalanceofaccruedinterestat
December31,2011isincludedinthetableabove.TheCompany™sfederal,stateandlocalincometaxreturns

areroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmay

resultinchallengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.

Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshave

beenappropriate.Shoulddeterminationsrenderedbytaxauthoritiesultimatelyindicatethatmanagement™s

assumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.Understatute,theCompany™sfederalincometaxreturnsfortheyears

2008,2009,and2010couldbeadjustedbytheInternalRevenueService,althoughexaminationsforthosetax

yearshavebeenconcluded.TheCompanyalsofilesincometaxreturnsinoverfortystateandlocal

jurisdictions.Substantiallyallmaterialstateandlocalmattershavebeenconcludedforyearsthrough2003.

Itisnotreasonablypossibletoestimatewhenexaminationsforanysubsequentyearswillbecompleted.
14614.Earningspercommonshare
Thecomputationsofbasicearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Incomeavailabletocommonshareholders:
Netincome
...............................................$859,479$736,161$379,891
Less:Preferredstockdividends(a)
.............................(45,839)(40,225)(36,081)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount(a)
................(20,018)(10,518)(8,130)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
........................793,622685,418335,680
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards.............................................(11,879)(9,592)(3,674)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
....................$781,743$675,826$332,006
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonsharesoutstanding(includingcommonstockissuable)
andunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
.............124,524119,852115,838
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
..............(1,861)(1,661)(1,178)
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding
............................122,663118,191114,660
Basicearningspercommonshare
...............................$
6.37$5.72$2.90
(a)Includingimpactofnotasyetdeclaredcumulativedividends.
Thecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
..........................$793,622$685,418$335,680
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards.............................................(11,857)(9,565)(3,674)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
....................$781,765$675,853$332,006
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonandunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
.........124,524119,852115,838
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
................(1,861)(1,661)(1,178)
Plus:Incrementalsharesfromassumedconversionofstock-based
compensationawardsandconvertiblepreferredstock
......416652116
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding
.....................123,079118,843114,776
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
.............................$
6.35$5.69$2.89
GAAPdefinesunvestedshare-basedawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightstodividendsor
dividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)asparticipatingsecuritiesthatshallbeincludedinthe
computationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.In2009,2010and2011,the

Companyissuedstock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,

which,inaccordancewithGAAP,areconsideredparticipatingsecurities.
Stock-basedcompensationawards,warrantstopurchasecommonstockofM&Tandpreferredstock
convertibleintosharesofM&Tcommonstockrepresentingapproximately11,268,000,11,231,000and

15,040,000commonsharesduring2011,2010and2009,respectively,werenotincludedinthecomputations

ofdilutedearningspercommonsharebecausetheeffectonthoseyearswouldhavebeenantidilutive.
14715.Comprehensiveincome
Thefollowingtabledisplaysthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincome:
Before-taxAmountIncomeTaxesNet(Inthousands)
FortheyearendedDecember31,2011
Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:

Available-for-sale(ﬁAFSﬂ)investmentsecuritieswithother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ):
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
...........................................................$
(58,628)$23,106$(35,522)
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...............................3,814(1,497)2,317
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..............................................(64,919)25,480(39,439)
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
......................................2,477(877)1,600
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains,net
...........................................................144,941(56,714)88,227
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...............................146,115(57,256)88,859
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother
.......................................(1,174)542(632)
Held-to-maturity(ﬁHTMﬂ)investmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
...........................................................(10,317)4,049(6,268)
Less:reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
...................................(545)214(331)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..............................................(12,116)4,755(7,361)
NetchangeforHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
.....................................2,344(920)1,424
UnrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferredfromAFStoHTM:
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
.......................................6,490(2,548)3,942
UnrealizedholdinglossestransferredtoHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
...................580
(227)353
NetchangeforinvestmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferredfromAFStoHTM
.................7,070(2,775)4,295
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
..............................................10,717(4,030)6,687
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminatedcashflowhedges
.................(448)167(281)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
....................................................(1,240)437(803)
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...................................................(258,146)101,322(156,824)
$(249,117)$97,896$(151,221)
FortheyearendedDecember31,2010

Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:

AFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
...........................................................$(104,039)$40,566$(63,473)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..............................................(81,199)31,552(49,647)
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
......................................(22,840)9,014(13,826)
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŠallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains,net
...........................................................236,167(92,190)143,977
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...............................1,581(610)971
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother
...................................234,586(91,580)143,006
HTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
.........................................................(11,908)4,674(7,234)
Less:reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses
.................................(7,984)3,134(4,850)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
............................................(5,082)1,995(3,087)
NetchangeforHTMinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
.................................1,158(455)703
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferred
fromAFStoHTM
....................................................................8,264(3,243)5,021
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
................................................221,168(86,264)134,904
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminatedcashflowhedges
.................(448)167(281)
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...................................................(6,331)2,485(3,846)
$214,389$(83,612)$130,777
FortheyearendedDecember31,2009

Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:

AFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
Unrealizedholdinglosses,net
...........................................................$(264,363)$103,409$(160,954)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..............................................(138,297)54,115(84,182)
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI
......................................(126,066)49,294(76,772)
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŠallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains,net
...........................................................640,096(247,637)392,459
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome
...............................219
(85)134
NetchangeforAFSinvestmentsecuritiesŒallother
.......................................639,877(247,552)392,325
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferred
fromAFStoHTM
....................................................................14,0277,46321,490
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
................................................527,838(190,795)337,043
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationoflossesonterminatedcashflowhedges
................10,761(4,204)6,557
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...................................................93,823(36,539)57,284
$632,422$(231,538)$400,884
148Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),netconsistedofunrealizedgains(losses)asfollows:
InvestmentSecurities
CashFlowHedgesForeignCurrencyTranslationAdjustmentDefinedBenefitPlansTotalWithOTTI
AllOther
(Inthousands)
BalanceatJanuary1,2009
...............$Š
$(556,668)$(5,883)$Š$(174,330)$(736,881)
Netgain(loss)during2009
..............(76,772)413,8156,557Š57,284400,884
BalanceatDecember31,2009
............(76,772)(142,853)674Š(117,046)(335,997)
Netgain(loss)during2010
..............(10,281)145,185(281)Š(3,846)130,777
BalanceatDecember31,2010
............(87,053)2,332393Š(120,892)(205,220)
Netgain(loss)during2011
..............3,0243,663(281)(803)(156,824)(151,221)
BalanceatDecember31,2011
............$(84,029)$5,995$112$(803)$(277,716)$(356,441)
16.Otherincomeandotherexpense
Thefollowingitems,whichexceeded1%oftotalinterestincomeandotherincomeintherespectiveperiod,
wereincludedineitherﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂorﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
Otherincome:
Bankownedlifeinsurance
...................................$
50,776$50,483$49,152
Credit-relatedfeeincome
....................................73,88662,29456,150
Letterofcreditfees
.........................................56,24749,76244,005
Non-taxablegainfrombusinesscombination
...................64,930Otherexpense:
Professionalservices
........................................222,122128,629117,523
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
.....................55,85956,58262,268
Advertisingandpromotion
..................................58,31241,86939,364
Write-downofinvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ)....
79,01217.Internationalactivities
TheCompanyengagesincertaininternationalactivitiesconsistinglargelyofcollectingEurodollardeposits,

engaginginforeigncurrencytrading,providingcredittosupporttheinternationalactivitiesofdomestic

companiesandholdingcertainloanstoforeignborrowers.AsaresultoftheWilmingtonTrustacquisition,

theCompanyofferstrust-relatedservicesthroughitsCorporateClientServicesbusinessinEuropeandthe

CaymanIslands.Revenuesfromprovidingsuchtrust-relatedserviceswereapproximately$15millionin

2011.Netassetsidentifiedwithinternationalactivitiesamountedto$159,579,000and$112,851,000at

December31,2011and2010,respectively.Suchassetsincluded$128,187,000and$107,310,000,

respectively,ofloanstoforeignborrowers.DepositsatM&TBank™sCaymanIslandsofficewere

$355,927,000and$1,605,916,000atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.TheCompanyusessuch

depositstofacilitatecustomerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsof

suchdepositsseemreasonable.
14918.Derivativefinancialinstruments
Aspartofmanaginginterestraterisk,theCompanyentersintointerestrateswapagreementstomodifythe
repricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsoftheCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-

bearingliabilities.TheCompanydesignatesinterestrateswapagreementsutilizedinthemanagementof

interestrateriskaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflowhedges.Interestrateswapagreementsaregenerally

enteredintowithcounterpartiesthatmeetestablishedcreditstandardsandmostcontainmasternettingand

collateralprovisionsprotectingtheat-riskparty.BasedonadherencetotheCompany™screditstandardsand

thepresenceofthenettingandcollateralprovisions,theCompanybelievesthatthecreditriskinherentin

thesecontractsisnotsignificantasofDecember31,2011.
Theneteffectofinterestrateswapagreementswastoincreasenetinterestincomeby$38millionin
2011,$42millionin2010and$38millionin2009.Theaveragenotionalamountsofinterestrateswap

agreementsimpactingnetinterestincomethatwereenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes

were$900millionin2011,$1.01billionin2010and$1.08billionin2009.
Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposessummarizedbytypeoffinancialinstrumenttheswapagreementswereintendedtohedgefollows:
NotionalAmountAverageMaturityWeighted-AverageRateEstimatedFair
ValueGain
FixedVariable(Inthousands)(Inyears)
(Inthousands)
December31,2011
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
............$900,0005.46.07%2.07%$147,302
December31,2010

Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
............$900,0006.46.07%1.84%$96,637
(a)Underthetermsoftheseagreements,theCompanyreceivessettlementamountsatafixedrateandpaysata
variablerate.
Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforriskmanagementpurposes
thatwereoutstandingatDecember31,2011maturein2016and2017.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellresidentialandcommercialrealestateloanstohedgethe
exposuretochangesinthefairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentshavegenerally
beendesignatedasfairvaluehedges.TheCompanyalsoutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloansto

offsettheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofcertaincommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.
Derivativefinancialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesincludedinterestratecontracts,foreign
exchangeandotheroptioncontracts,foreignexchangeforwardandspotcontracts,andfinancialfutures.

Interestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposeshadnotionalvaluesof$13.9billionand

$12.8billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Thenotionalamountsofforeigncurrencyand

otheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated$1.4billionand

$769millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
150InformationaboutthefairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalance
sheetandconsolidatedstatementofincomefollows:
AssetDerivatives
FairValue
December31
LiabilityDerivatives
FairValue
December31
2011201020112010(Inthousands)
Derivativesdesignatedandqualifyingashedging
instrumentsFairvaluehedges:
Interestrateswapagreements(a)
......................$147,302$96,637$Š$Š
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
...............232
4,8802,2871,062
147,534101,5172,2871,062
Derivativesnotdesignatedandqualifyingashedging
instrumentsMortgage-relatedcommitmentstooriginaterealestate
loansforsale(a)
.................................7,9912,8271,068583
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
...............1,32810,3222,7711,962
Trading:Interestratecontracts(b)
..........................443,033345,632415,836321,461
Foreignexchangeandotheroptionandfutures
contracts(b)..................................19,11511,26718,72311,761
471,467370,048438,398335,767
Totalderivatives
...................................$619,001$471,565$440,685$336,829
(a)Assetderivativesarereportedinotherassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
(b)Assetderivativesarereportedintradingaccountassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
AmountofUnrealizedGain(Loss)Recognized
YearEnded
December31,2011
YearEnded
December31,2010
YearEnded
December31,2009
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
(Inthousands)
Derivativesinfairvaluehedging
relationshipsInterestrateswapagreements:
Fixedratetimedeposits(a)
.....$Š$Š$
(503)$503$(1,797)$1,789
Fixedratelong-term
borrowings(a).............50,665(47,916)41,628(39,802)(91,093)85,679
Total.......................$50,665$(47,916)$41,125$(39,299)$(92,890)$87,468
Derivativesnotdesignatedas
hedginginstruments
Trading:Interestratecontracts(b)
......$
6,130$3,760$(3,622)
Foreignexchangeandother
optionandfutures

contracts(b)...............(2,649)(307)337
Total.......................$
3,481$3,453$(3,285)
(a)Reportedasotherrevenuesfromoperations.
(b)Reportedastradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
151Inaddition,theCompanyalsohascommitmentstosellandcommitmentstooriginateresidential
andcommercialrealestateloansthatareconsideredderivatives.TheCompanydesignatescertainofthe
commitmentstosellrealestateloansasfairvaluehedgesofrealestateloansheldforsale.TheCompanyalso

utilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstooffsettheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofcertain

commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.Asaresultoftheseactivities,netunrealizedpre-taxgains

relatedtohedgedloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloans

wereapproximately$12millionand$17millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Changesin

unrealizedgainsandlossesareincludedinmortgagebankingrevenuesand,ingeneral,arerealizedin

subsequentperiodsastherelatedloansaresoldandcommitmentssatisfied.
TheaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinanetliabilitypositionatDecember31,
2011forwhichtheCompanywasrequiredtopostcollateralwas$320million.Thefairvalueofcollateral

postedforsuchinstrumentswas$271million.CertainoftheCompany™sderivativefinancialinstruments

containprovisionsthatrequiretheCompanytomaintainspecificcreditratingsfromcreditratingagencies

toavoidhighercollateralpostingrequirements.IftheCompany™sdebtratingweretofallbelowspecified

ratings,thecounterpartiestothederivativefinancialinstrumentscoulddemandimmediateincremental

collateralizationonthoseinstrumentsinanetliabilityposition.Theaggregatefairvalueofallderivative

financialinstrumentswithsuchcredit-risk-relatedcontingentfeaturesinanetliabilitypositionon

December31,2011was$99million,forwhichtheCompanyhadpostedcollateralof$65millioninthe

normalcourseofbusiness.Ifthecredit-risk-relatedcontingentfeatureshadbeentriggeredonDecember31,

2011,themaximumamountofadditionalcollateraltheCompanywouldhavebeenrequiredtopostto

counterpartieswas$34million.
TheCompany™screditexposurewithrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueasofDecember31,2011of
interestrateswapagreementsusedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthrough

masternettingarrangementswithtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartiesas

wellascounterpartypostingsof$69millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Tradingaccountinterestrate

swapagreementsenteredintowithcustomersaresubjecttotheCompany™screditstandardsandoften

containcollateralprovisions.
19.Variableinterestentitiesandassetsecuritizations
EffectiveJanuary1,2010,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)amendedaccounting

guidancerelatedtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiestoeliminatethequantitativeapproach

previouslyrequiredfordeterminingtheprimarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentity.Theamended

guidanceinsteadrequiresareportingentitytoqualitativelyassessthedeterminationoftheprimary

beneficiaryofavariableinterestentitybasedonwhetherthereportingentityhasthepowertodirectthe

activitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpactthevariableinterestentity™seconomicperformanceandhasthe

obligationtoabsorblossesortherighttoreceivebenefitsofthevariableinterestentitythatcouldpotentially

besignificanttothevariableinterestentity.Theamendedguidancerequiresongoingreassessmentsof

whetherthereportingentityistheprimarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentity.
AlsoeffectiveJanuary1,2010,theFASBamendedaccountingguidancerelatedtoaccountingfor
transfersoffinancialassetstoeliminatetheexceptionsforqualifyingspecial-purposeentitiesfromthe

consolidationguidanceandtheexceptionthatpermittedsaleaccountingforcertainmortgage

securitizationswhenatransferorhasnotsurrenderedcontroloverthetransferredassets.Therecognition

andmeasurementprovisionsoftheamendedguidancewererequiredtobeappliedprospectively.

Additionally,beginningJanuary1,2010,theconceptofaqualifyingspecial-purposeentityisnolonger

relevantforaccountingpurposes.Therefore,formerlyqualifyingspecial-purposeentitieshadtobe

re-evaluatedforconsolidationinaccordancewithapplicableconsolidationguidance,includingthenew

accountingguidancerelatingtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiesdiscussedintheprevious

paragraph.In2002and2003,theCompanytransferredapproximately$1.9billionofone-to-fourfamily
residentialmortgageloanstoqualifiedspecial-purposetrustsintwonon-recoursesecuritization

transactions.Inexchangefortheloans,theCompanyreceivedcash,nomorethan88%oftheresulting

securities,andtheservicingrightstotheloans.ThroughDecember31,2009,alloftheretainedsecurities

wereclassifiedasinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsaleasthequalifiedspecial-purposetrustswerenot

includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.EffectiveJanuary1,2010,theCompany

determinedthatitwastheprimarybeneficiaryofbothsecuritizationtrustsundertheamended

consolidationrulesconsideringitsroleasserviceranditsretainedsubordinatedinterestsinthetrusts.Asa
152result,beginningJanuary1,2010,theCompanyincludedtheone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloans
thatwereincludedinthetwonon-recoursesecuritizationtransactionsinitsconsolidatedfinancial

statements.TheeffectofthatconsolidationonJanuary1,2010wastoincreaseloansreceivableby

$424million,decreasetheamortizedcostofavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesby$360million(fair

valueof$355million),andincreaseborrowingsby$65million.ThetransitionadjustmentatJanuary1,

2010asaresultoftheCompany™sadoptionofthenewaccountingrequirementswasnotsignificant.Inthe

secondquarterof2010,the2002securitizationtrustwasterminatedastheCompanyexerciseditsrightto

purchasetheunderlyingmortgageloanspursuanttotheclean-upcallprovisionsofthequalifiedspecial-

purposetrust.AtDecember31,2011and2010,thecarryingvaluesoftheloansintheremaining

securitizationtrustwere$196millionand$265million,respectively.Theoutstandingprincipalamountof

mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbythequalifiedspecialpurposetrustthatwasheldbypartiesunrelatedto

M&TatDecember31,2011and2010was$30millionand$40million,respectively.Becausethetransaction

wasnon-recourse,theCompany™smaximumexposuretolossasaresultofitsassociationwiththetrustat

December31,2011islimitedtorealizingthecarryingvalueoftheloanslesstheamountofthemortgage-

backedsecuritiesheldbythirdparties.
In2009,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$141millionofone-to-fourfamilyresidential
mortgageloansinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswithFannieMae.Therewerenosuchsecuritizations

in2011and2010.TheCompanyrecognizednogainorlossonthetransactionsasitretainedallofthe

resultingsecurities.Suchsecuritieswereclassifiedasinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale.TheCompany

expectsnomaterialcredit-relatedlossesontheretainedsecuritiesasaresultoftheguaranteesbyFannie

Mae.Asdescribedinnote9,M&Thasissuedjuniorsubordinateddebenturespayabletovarioustruststhat
haveissuedCapitalSecurities.M&Townsthecommonsecuritiesofthosetrustentities.TheCompanyisnot

consideredtobetheprimarybeneficiaryofthoseentitiesand,accordingly,thetrustsarenotincludedinthe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2011and2010,theCompanyincludedthe

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasﬁlong-termborrowingsﬂinitsconsolidatedbalancesheet.TheCompany

hasrecognized$34millioninotherassetsforitsﬁinvestmentﬂinthecommonsecuritiesofthetruststhat

willbeconcomitantlyrepaidtoM&TbytherespectivetrustfromtheproceedsofM&T™srepaymentofthe

juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiesdescribedinnote9.
TheCompanyhasinvestedasalimitedpartnerinvariousrealestatepartnershipsthatcollectively
hadtotalassetsofapproximately$1.4billionand$1.1billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.

Thosepartnershipsgenerallyconstructoracquirepropertiesforwhichtheinvestingpartnersareeligibleto

receivecertainfederalincometaxcreditsinaccordancewithgovernmentguidelines.Suchinvestmentsmay

alsoprovidetaxdeductiblelossestothepartners.ThepartnershipinvestmentsalsoassisttheCompanyin

achievingitscommunityreinvestmentinitiatives.Asalimitedpartner,thereisnorecoursetotheCompany

bycreditorsofthepartnerships.However,thetaxcreditsthatresultfromtheCompany™sinvestmentsin

suchpartnershipsaregenerallysubjecttorecaptureshouldapartnershipfailtocomplywiththerespective

governmentregulations.TheCompany™smaximumexposuretolossofitsinvestmentsinsuchpartnerships

was$271million,including$75millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2011and$258million,

including$81millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2010.TheCompanyhasnotprovided

financialorothersupporttothepartnershipsthatwasnotcontractuallyrequired.Managementcurrently

estimatesthatnomateriallossesareprobableasaresultoftheCompany™sinvolvementwithsuchentities.

TheCompany,initspositionaslimitedpartner,doesnotdirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpact

theeconomicperformanceofthepartnershipsand,therefore,inaccordancewiththeaccountingprovisions

forvariableinterestentities,thepartnershipentitiesarenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidated

financialstatements.
20.Fairvaluemeasurements
GAAPpermitsanentitytochoosetomeasureeligiblefinancialinstrumentsandotheritemsatfairvalue.

TheCompanyhasnotmadeanyfairvalueelectionsatDecember31,2011.
PursuanttoGAAP,fairvalueisdefinedasthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellanassetorpaidto
transferaliabilityinanorderlytransactionbetweenmarketparticipantsatthemeasurementdate.Athree-

levelhierarchyexistsinGAAPforfairvaluemeasurementsbasedupontheinputstothevaluationofan

assetorliability.
†Level1ŠValuationisbasedonquotedpricesinactivemarketsforidenticalassetsandliabilities.
153†Level2ŠValuationisdeterminedfromquotedpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilitiesinactive
markets,quotedpricesforidenticalorsimilarinstrumentsinmarketsthatarenotactiveorby
model-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservableinthemarket.
†Level3ŠValuationisderivedfrommodel-basedandothertechniquesinwhichatleastone
significantinputisunobservableandwhichmaybebasedontheCompany™sownestimatesabout

theassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswouldusetovaluetheassetorliability.
Whenavailable,theCompanyattemptstousequotedmarketpricesinactivemarketstodetermine
fairvalueandclassifiessuchitemsasLevel1orLevel2.Ifquotedmarketpricesinactivemarketsarenot

available,fairvalueisoftendeterminedusingmodel-basedtechniquesincorporatingvariousassumptions

includinginterestrates,prepaymentspeedsandcreditlosses.Assetsandliabilitiesvaluedusingmodel-based

techniquesareclassifiedaseitherLevel2orLevel3,dependingonthelowestlevelclassificationofaninput

thatisconsideredsignificanttotheoverallvaluation.Thefollowingisadescriptionofthevaluation

methodologiesusedfortheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthataremeasuredonarecurringbasisat

estimatedfairvalue.
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilities
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesconsistprimarilyofinterestrateswapagreementsandforeign

exchangecontractswithcustomerswhorequiresuchserviceswithoffsettingpositionswiththirdpartiesto

minimizetheCompany™sriskwithrespecttosuchtransactions.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefair

valueofitsderivativetradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesusingexternallydevelopedpricingmodelsbased

onmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuchvaluationsasLevel2.Mutualfundsheldin

connectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangementshavebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.Valuations

ofinvestmentsinmunicipalandotherbondscangenerallybeobtainedthroughreferencetoquotedprices

inlessactivemarketsforthesameorsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichall

significantinputsareobservableand,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
ThemajorityoftheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavebeenvaluedbyreferenceto

pricesforsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservable

and,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.Certaininvestmentsinmutualfundsand

equitysecuritiesareactivelytradedandthereforehavebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.
Tradingactivityinprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieshasbeenlimited.Themarketsfor
suchsecuritiesweregenerallycharacterizedbyasharpreductionofnon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities

issuances,asignificantreductionintradingvolumesandwidebid-askspreads,alldrivenbythelackof

marketparticipants.Althoughestimatedpricesweregenerallyobtainedforsuchsecurities,theCompany

wassignificantlyrestrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsusedinthevaluationofits

privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesportfolio.Specifically,marketassumptionsregardingcredit

adjustedcashflowsandliquidityinfluencesondiscountratesweredifficulttoobserveattheindividual

bondlevel.Becauseoftheinactivityinthemarketsandthelackofobservablevaluationinputs,the

Companyhasclassifiedthevaluationofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesasLevel3.
GAAPprovidesguidanceforestimatingfairvaluewhenthevolumeandleveloftradingactivityfor
anassetorliabilityhavesignificantlydecreased.TheCompanyhasconcludedthattherehasbeena

significantdeclineinthevolumeandlevelofactivityinthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed

securities.Therefore,theCompanysupplementeditsdeterminationoffairvalueformanyofitsprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesbyobtainingpricingindicationsfromtwoindependentsourcesat

December31,2011and2010.However,theCompanycouldnotreadilyascertainthatthebasisofsuch

valuationscouldbeascribedtoorderlyandobservabletradesinthemarketforprivatelyissuedresidential

mortgage-backedsecurities.Asaresult,theCompanyalsoperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatethecash

flowsandfairvalueofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcostbasisof

$1.3billionatDecember31,2011and$1.5billionatDecember31,2010.TheCompany™sinternalmodeling

techniquesincludeddiscountingestimatedbond-specificcashflowsusingassumptionsaboutcashflows

associatedwithloansunderlyingeachofthebonds,includingestimatesaboutthetimingandamountof

creditlossesandprepayments.Inestimatingthosecashflows,theCompanyusedassumptionsastofuture

delinquency,defaults,furtherhomepricedepreciationandlossrates.Differencesbetweeninternalmodel

valuationsandexternalpricingindicationsweregenerallyconsideredtobereflectiveofthelackofliquidity
154inthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesgiventhenatureofthecashflowmodeling
performedintheCompany™sassessmentofvalue.Todeterminethepointwithintherangeofpotential

valuesthatwasmostrepresentativeoffairvalueforeachofthebonds,theCompanycomputedvaluesbased

onjudgmentallyappliedweightingsoftheinternalmodelvaluationsandtheindicationsobtainedfromthe

averageofthetwoindependentpricingsources.AtDecember31,2011,weighted-averagerelianceon

internalmodelpricingforthebondsmodeledwas34%witha66%averageweightingplacedonthevalues

providedbytheindependentsources.TheCompanyconcludeditsestimateoffairvalueforthe$1.3billion

ofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiestoapproximate$1.1billion,whichimpliesa

weighted-averagemarketyieldbasedonreasonablylikelycashflowsof8.3%.
Includedincollateralizeddebtobligationsaresecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby
financialinstitutionsandotherentities.Giventheseveredisruptioninthecreditmarketsandthewide

disparityinobservabletradeinformation,theCompanycouldnotobtainpricingindicationsformanyof

thesesecuritiesfromitstwoprimaryindependentpricingsources.TheCompany,therefore,performed

internalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofitsportfolioofsecuritiesbackedbytrust

preferredsecuritiesatDecember31,2011and2010.Themodelingtechniquesincludeddiscounting

estimatedcashflowsusingbond-specificassumptionsaboutdefaults,deferralsandprepaymentsofthetrust

preferredsecuritiesunderlyingeachbond.Theestimationofcashflowsincludedassumptionsastofuture

collateraldefaultsandrelatedlossseverities.Theresultingcashflowswerethendiscountedbyreferenceto

marketyieldsobservedinthesingle-nametrustpreferredsecuritiesmarket.AtDecember31,2011,thetotal

amortizedcostandfairvalueofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions

andotherentitieswere$44millionand$53million,respectivelyandatDecember31,2010were$95million

and$111million,respectively.Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandsecuritiesbackedbytrust

preferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentitiesconstitutedalloftheavailable-for-sale

investmentsecuritiesclassifiedasLevel3valuationsasofDecember31,2011and2010.
Realestateloansheldforsale
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinfairvalueof

realestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsaleincludeschangesin

estimatedfairvalueduringthehedgeperiod.Typically,theCompanyattemptstohedgerealestateloans

heldforsalefromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Thefairvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldfor

saleisgenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsforcommitmentstosellreal

estateloanswithsimilarcharacteristicsand,accordingly,suchloanshavebeenclassifiedasaLevel2

valuation.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentsto

sellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,therefore,

arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvaluesofsuch

commitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsfor

commitmentstosellrealestateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.Thefair

valuationsofcommitmentstosellrealestateloansgenerallyresultinaLevel2classification.Theestimated

fairvalueofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareadjustedtoreflecttheCompany™s

anticipatedcommitmentexpirations.Estimatedcommitmentexpirationsareconsideredasignificant

unobservableinput,whichresultsinaLevel3classification.TheCompanyincludestheexpectednetfuture

cashflowsrelatedtotheassociatedservicingoftheloaninthefairvaluemeasurementofaderivativeloan

commitment.Theestimatedvalueascribedtotheexpectednetfutureservicingcashflowsisalsoconsidered

asignificantunobservableinputcontributingtotheLevel3classificationofcommitmentstooriginatereal

estateloansforsale.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto

modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefairvalueofitsinterestrateswapagreementsusing

externallydevelopedpricingmodelsbasedonmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuch

valuationsasLevel2.TheCompanyhasconsideredcounterpartycreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterest

rateswapagreementassetsandhasconsidereditsowncreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterestrateswap

agreementliabilities.
155ThefollowingtablespresentassetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010
measuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis:
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2011Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
.......................$
561,834$53,165$508,669$Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
............70,723Š70,723Š
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions............................40,269Š40,269Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..........4,521,233Š4,521,233Š
Privatelyissuedresidential
................1,136,256ŠŠ1,136,256
Privatelyissuedcommercial
...............15,029ŠŠ15,029
Collateralizeddebtobligations
...............52,500ŠŠ52,500
Otherdebtsecurities
.......................176,845Š176,845Š
Equitysecurities
..........................215,705205,58710,118Š
6,228,560205,5874,819,1881,203,785
Realestateloansheldforsale
..................371,437Š371,437Š
Otherassets(b)
.............................156,853Š148,8627,991
Totalassets
..............................$7,318,684$258,752$5,848,156$1,211,776
Tradingaccountliabilities
....................$
434,559Š$434,559$Š
Otherliabilities(b)
...........................6,126Š5,0581,068
Totalliabilities
............................$
440,685Š$439,617$1,068
156FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2010Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
..........................$
523,834$53,032$470,802$Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...............63,434Š63,434Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.....60,425Š60,425Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
.............3,306,241Š3,306,241Š
Privatelyissuedresidential
...................1,435,561ŠŠ1,435,561
Privatelyissuedcommercial
..................22,407ŠŠ22,407
Collateralizeddebtobligations
..................110,756ŠŠ110,756
Otherdebtsecurities
..........................298,900Š298,900Š
Equitysecurities
..............................115,768106,8728,896Š
5,413,492106,8723,737,8961,568,724
Realestateloansheldforsale
.....................544,567Š544,567Š
Otherassets(b)
.................................114,666Š111,8392,827
Totalassets
..................................$6,596,559$159,904$4,865,104$1,571,551
Tradingaccountliabilities
........................$
333,222Š$333,222$Š
Otherliabilities(b)
..............................3,607Š3,024583
Totalliabilities
...............................$
336,829Š$336,246$583
(a)TherewerenosignificanttransfersbetweenLevel1andLevel2ofthefairvaluehierarchyduringtheyearsended
December31,2011and2010.
(b)Comprisedpredominantlyofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement(Level2),
commitmentstosellrealestateloans(Level2)andcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsale
(Level3).
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2011wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedResidentialMortgage-backedSecuritiesPrivatelyIssuedCommercialMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherAssetsandOther
Liabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŒJanuary1,2011
...........................$1,435,561$22,407$110,756$2,244
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
.............................(64,919)(a)Š19,231(a)67,163(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
............6,489327(272)Š
Purchases.......................................ŠŠ
50,790Š
Sales............................................ŠŠ(1
24,874)Š
Settlements......................................(
240,875)(7,705)(3,131)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
.................ŠŠŠ
(62,484)BalanceŒDecember31,2011
.......................$1,136,256$15,029$52,500$6,923
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)includedinearnings
relatedtoassetsstillheldatDecember31,2011
.......$
(64,919)(a)ŠŠ$6,902(b)
157ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2010wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedResidentialMortgage-backedSecuritiesPrivatelyIssuedCommercialMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherDebtSecuritiesOtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŒJanuary1,2010
................$2,064,904$25,166$115,346$420$(80)
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
..................(63,503)(a)Š(5,703)(a)Š95,661(b)
Includedinothercomprehensive
income...........................1
35,4345,4622,88735Š
Settlements...........................(3
46,026)(8,221)(1,774)ŠŠ
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
.......(355,248)(d)ŠŠ(455)(93,337)
BalanceŒDecember31,2010
.............$1,435,561$22,407$110,756$Š$2,244
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)included
inearningsrelatedtoassetsstillheldat
December31,2010
...................$
(63,503)(a)Š$(5,703)(a)Š$2,153(b)
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2009wereasfollows:
Balance-January1,
2009TotalGains(Losses)
Realized/UnrealizedPurchases,Sales,
Issuances&
SettlementsTransferin
and/oroutof
Level3(c)
Balance-December31,
2009Changesin
UnrealizedGains
(Losses)Included
inEarningsRelated
toAssetsStill
Heldat
December31,
2009IncludedinEarnings
Includedin
OtherComprehensiveIncome(Inthousands)
Investmentsecurities
availableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryand
federalagencies
.........$
5,532$Š$Š$Š$(5,532)$Š$Š
Obligationsofstates
andpolitical
subdivisions...........38Š224(9)
(253)ŠŠ
Governmentissuedor
guaranteed
mortgage-backed
securities..............84,544ŠŠŠ(84,544)ŠŠ
Privatelyissued
residential
mortgage-backed
securities..............2,326,554(128,374)(a)405,309(538,585)Š2,064,904(128,374)(a)
Privatelyissued
commercial
mortgage-backed
securities..............41,046Š(6,853)(9,027)Š25,166Š
Collateralizeddebt
obligations............2,496(9,568)(a)19,770102,648Š115,346(9,923)(a)
Otherdebt
securities..............ŠŠ145725
(450)420Š
Equitysecurities
..........2,302Š2(12)(2,292)ŠŠ
2,462,512(137,942)418,597(444,260)(93,071)2,205,836(138,297)
Otherassetsand
otherliabilities
.........8,26634,400(b)ŠŠ(42,746)(80)2,465(b)
158(a)Reportedasanother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeorasgain(loss)
onbankinvestmentsecurities.
(b)Reportedasmortgagebankingrevenuesintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeandincludesthefairvalueof
commitmentissuancesandexpirations.
(c)TheCompany™spolicyfortransfersbetweenfairvaluelevelsistorecognizethetransferasoftheactualdateofthe
eventorchangeincircumstancesthatcausedthetransfer.
(d)AsaresultoftheCompany™sadoptionofnewaccountingrulesgoverningtheconsolidationofvariableinterest
entities,effectiveJanuary1,2010theCompanyderecognized$355millionofavailable-for-saleinvestment
securitiespreviouslyclassifiedasLevel3measurements.
TheCompanyisrequired,onanonrecurringbasis,toadjustthecarryingvalueofcertainassetsor
providevaluationallowancesrelatedtocertainassetsusingfairvaluemeasurements.Themoresignificantof
thoseassetsfollow.
InvestmentSecuritiesHeldtoMaturity
During2011and2010,theCompanyrecognizedother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtocertain

collateralizedmortgageobligations.InaccordancewithGAAP,thecarryingvalueofsuchsecuritieswas

reducedtofairvalue,withestimatedcreditlossesrecognizedinearningsandanyremainingunrealizedloss

recognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome.Thedeterminationoffairvalueisconsistentwith

thevaluationmethodologydisclosedfortheCompany™sprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandis

classifiedasLevel3.During2011,$12millionofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosseswererecognized

inearningsonsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$7millionatDecember31,2011.During2010,$5

millionofother-than-temporarylosseswererecognizedinearningsonsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof

$12millionatDecember31,2010.
LoansLoansaregenerallynotrecordedatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.Periodically,theCompanyrecords

nonrecurringadjustmentstothecarryingvalueofloansbasedonfairvaluemeasurementsforpartial

charge-offsoftheuncollectibleportionsofthoseloans.Nonrecurringadjustmentsalsoincludecertain

impairmentamountsforcollateral-dependentloanswhenestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Such

amountsaregenerallybasedonthefairvalueoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingtheloanand,asa

result,thecarryingvalueoftheloanlessthecalculatedvaluationamountdoesnotnecessarilyrepresentthe

fairvalueoftheloan.Realestatecollateralistypicallyvaluedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvalue

basedonrecentcomparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthe

marketplaceandtherelatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassified

asLevel2,unlesssignificantadjustmentshavebeenmadetothevaluationthatarenotreadilyobservableby

marketparticipants.Estimatesoffairvalueusedforothercollateralsupportingcommercialloansgenerally

arebasedonassumptionsnotobservableinthemarketplaceandthereforesuchvaluationshavebeen

classifiedasLevel3.Loanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$419millionat

December31,2011,($262millionand$157millionofwhichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,

respectively)and$746millionatDecember31,2010($476millionand$270millionofwhichwereclassified

asLevel2andLevel3,respectively).Changesinfairvaluerecognizedforpartialcharge-offsofloansand

loanimpairmentreservesonloansheldbytheCompanyonDecember31,2011weredecreasesof

$158millionfortheyearendedDecember31,2011,andonloansheldbytheCompanyonDecember31,

2010weredecreasesof$224millionfortheyearendedDecember31,2010.Decreasesinfairvalueof$343

millionwererecognizedin2009onloansheldbytheCompanyatDecember31,2009.
159Capitalizedservicingrights
CapitalizedservicingrightsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalueintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.

TheCompanyutilizestheamortizationmethodtosubsequentlymeasureitscapitalizedservicingassets.In

accordancewithGAAP,theCompanymustrecordimpairmentcharges,onanonrecurringbasis,whenthe

carryingvalueofcertainstrataexceedtheirestimatedfairvalue.Toestimatethefairvalueofservicingrights,

theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilarassets,ifavailable,andthepresentvalueofexpectedfuture

cashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculatedusingassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswould

useinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.Suchassumptionsincludeestimatesofthecostof

servicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriatediscountrate,andprepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesof

evaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentofcapitalizedservicingrights,theCompanystratifiessuchassets

basedonthepredominantriskcharacteristicsoftheunderlyingfinancialinstrumentsthatareexpectedto

havethemostimpactonprojectedprepayments,costofservicingandotherfactorsaffectingfuturecash

flowsassociatedwiththeservicingrights.Suchfactorsmayincludefinancialassetorloantype,noterateand

term.Theamountofimpairmentrecognizedistheamountbywhichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalized

servicingrightsforastratumexceedestimatedfairvalue.Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluation

allowance.ThedeterminationoffairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsisconsideredaLevel3valuation.At

December31,2011,$10millionofcapitalizedservicingrightsrequiredavaluationallowanceof

approximately$2million.AtDecember31,2010,nostratumofcapitalizedservicingrightsrequireda

valuationallowance.Changesinthevaluationallowancein2011,2010and2009aredescribedinnote7.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandaregenerallymeasuredatthelowerofcostorfairvaluelesscoststosell.Thefairvalueofthe

realpropertyisgenerallydeterminedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvaluebasedonrecent

comparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthemarketplace,andthe

relatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassifiedasLevel2.Assets

takeninforeclosureofdefaultedloanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$51millionand

$53millionatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.Reflectingfurtherdeclinesin

residentialrealestateandresidentialdevelopmentprojectssubsequenttoforeclosurechangesinfairvalue

recognizedforthoseforeclosedassetsheldbytheCompanyatDecember31,2011were$8millionforthe

yearendedDecember31,2011.Changesinfairvaluerecognizedforthoseforeclosedassetsheldbythe

CompanyatDecember31,2010and2009were$12millionand$24millionfortheyearsended

December31,2010and2009,respectively.
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
During2011™sfinalquarter,theCompanyrecognizeda$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairment

chargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBLGandchargeditdowntoitsestimatedfairvalueof$115

million.Thatimpairmentchargeisincludedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂIndeterminingthefairvalueof

M&T™sinvestmentinBLGatDecember31,2011,theCompanyprojectednofurthercommercialmortgage

originationandsecuritizationactivitiesbyBLG.BLG,however,isentitledtoreceive,ifandwhenmade,cash

distributionsfromaffiliates,aportionofwhichiscontractuallyrequiredtobedistributedtoM&T.

Specifically,cashflowsrelatedtomortgageassetsheldbyBLGanditsaffiliateswereestimatedusingvarious

assumptionsonfuturedefaultandlossseveritiestoarriveattheexpectedamountofcashflowthatcouldbe

availablefordistribution.AsofDecember31,2011,theweighted-averageassumptionsofprojecteddefault

percentageontheunderlyingmortgageloancollateralsupportingthesemortgageassetswas31%andthe

weighted-averagelossseverityassumptionwas75%.Withrespecttoprojectedvalueexpectedtobe

generatedbytheassetmanagementandservicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates,M&Tdevelopedestimates

fromcompany-providedforecastsoffinancialresultsandthroughdiscussionswiththeirsenior

managementpertainingtolonger-termprojectionsofgrowthinassetsundermanagementandasset

servicingportfolios.M&Tconsidereddifferentscenariosofprojectedvaluethatcouldbegeneratedbythe

assetmanagementandservicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates.M&Tthendiscountedthevariousprojections

usingdiscountratesthatrangedfrom8.0%to12.5%thatweredeterminedbyreferencetoreturnsrequired

byinvestorsinsimilarbusinesses.ThedeterminationoffairvalueofM&T™s20%investmentinBLGis

consideredalevel3valuationduetotheunobservablenatureofkeyassumptions.
160Disclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments
Withtheexceptionofmarketablesecurities,certainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsandone-to-four

familyresidentialmortgageloansoriginatedforsale,theCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsarenotreadily

marketableandmarketpricesdonotexist.TheCompany,inattemptingtocomplywiththeprovisionsof

GAAPthatrequiredisclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments,hasnotattemptedtomarketits

financialinstrumentstopotentialbuyers,ifanyexist.Sincenegotiatedpricesinilliquidmarketsdepend

greatlyuponthethenpresentmotivationsofthebuyerandseller,itisreasonabletoassumethatactualsales

pricescouldvarywidelyfromanyestimateoffairvaluemadewithoutthebenefitofnegotiations.

Additionally,changesinmarketinterestratescandramaticallyimpactthevalueoffinancialinstrumentsina

shortperiodoftime.Additionalinformationabouttheassumptionsandcalculationsutilizedfollows.
Thecarryingamountsandestimatedfairvalueforfinancialinstrumentassets(liabilities)are
presentedinthefollowingtable:
December31,2011
December31,2010
CarryingAmountCalculatedEstimateCarryingAmountCalculatedEstimate(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
............$
1,452,397$1,452,397$933,755$933,755
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
......154,960154,960101,222101,222
Tradingaccountassets
...............561,834561,834523,834523,834
Investmentsecurities
................7,673,1547,608,0087,150,5407,051,454
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases
........15,734,43615,507,34213,390,61013,135,569
Commercialrealestateloans
........24,411,11424,024,58521,183,16120,840,346
Residentialrealestateloans
.........7,923,1657,782,9355,928,0565,699,028
Consumerloans
..................12,027,29011,869,81311,488,55511,178,583
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........(908,290)Š(902,941)Š
Loansandleases,net
............59,187,71559,184,67551,087,44150,853,526
Accruedinterestreceivable
...........222,618222,618202,182202,182
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.........$(20,017,883)$(20,017,883)$(14,557,568)$(14,557,568)
SavingsdepositsandNOWaccounts...(32,913,309)(32,913,309)(27,824,630)(27,824,630)
Timedeposits
......................(6,107,530)(6,133,806)(5,817,170)(5,865,779)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......(355,927)(355,927)(1,605,916)(1,605,916)
Short-termborrowings
..............(782,082)(782,082)(947,432)(947,432)
Long-termborrowings
...............(6,686,226)(6,720,174)(7,840,151)(7,937,397)
Accruedinterestpayable
.............(67,900)(67,900)(71,954)(71,954)
Tradingaccountliabilities
............(434,559)(434,559)(333,222)(333,222)
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginaterealestate
loansforsale
.....................$
6,923$6,923$2,244$2,244
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans...(3,498)(3,498)12,17812,178
Othercredit-relatedcommitments
.....(109,828)(109,828)(74,426)(74,426)
Interestrateswapagreementsusedfor
interestrateriskmanagement
.......147,302147,30296,63796,637
Thefollowingassumptions,methodsandcalculationswereusedindeterminingtheestimatedfair
valueoffinancialinstrumentsnotmeasuredatfairvalueintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
161Cashandcashequivalents,interest-bearingdepositsatbanks,short-termborrowings,accruedinterest
receivableandaccruedinterestpayable

Duetothenatureofcashandcashequivalentsandthenearmaturityofinterest-bearingdepositsatbanks,

short-termborrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterestpayable,theCompanyestimated

thatthecarryingamountofsuchinstrumentsapproximatedestimatedfairvalue.
Investmentsecurities
Estimatedfairvaluesofinvestmentsinreadilymarketablesecuritiesweregenerallybasedonquotedmarket

prices.Investmentsecuritiesthatwerenotreadilymarketablewereassignedamountsbasedonestimates

providedbyoutsidepartiesormodelingtechniquesthatreliedupondiscountedcalculationsofprojectedcash

flowsor,inthecaseofotherinvestmentsecurities,whichincludecapitalstockoftheFederalReserveBankof

NewYorkandtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNewYork,atanamountequaltothecarryingamount.
Loansandleases
Ingeneral,discountratesusedtocalculatevaluesforloanproductswerebasedontheCompany™spricingat

therespectiveperiodend.Ahigherdiscountratewasassumedwithrespecttoestimatedcashflows

associatedwithnonaccrualloans.Projectedloancashflowswereadjustedforestimatedcreditlosses.

However,suchestimatesmadebytheCompanymaynotbeindicativeofassumptionsandadjustmentsthat

apurchaseroftheCompany™sloansandleaseswouldseek.
DepositsPursuanttoGAAP,theestimatedfairvalueascribedtononinterest-bearingdeposits,savingsdepositsand

NOWaccountsmustbeestablishedatcarryingvaluebecauseofthecustomers™abilitytowithdrawfunds

immediately.Timedepositaccountsarerequiredtoberevaluedbaseduponprevailingmarketinterestrates

forsimilarmaturityinstruments.Asaresult,amountsassignedtotimedepositswerebasedondiscounted

cashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesbasedontheCompany™spricingatthe

respectivedatefordepositswithcomparableremainingtermstomaturity.
TheCompanybelievesthatdepositaccountshaveavaluegreaterthanthatprescribedbyGAAP.The
Companyfeels,however,thatthevalueassociatedwiththesedepositsisgreatlyinfluencedbycharacteristics

ofthebuyer,suchastheabilitytoreducethecostsofservicingthedepositsanddepositattritionwhichoften

occursfollowinganacquisition.
Long-termborrowings
Theamountsassignedtolong-termborrowingswerebasedonquotedmarketprices,whenavailable,or

werebasedondiscountedcashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesforborrowingsof

similartermsandcreditrisk.
Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentsto

sellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,therefore,

arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvaluesofsuch

commitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedmarketpricesforcommitmentstosellreal

estateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
Theestimatedfairvalueofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagementrepresents

theamounttheCompanywouldhaveexpectedtoreceiveorpaytoterminatesuchagreements.
Othercommitmentsandcontingencies
Asdescribedinnote21,inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilities

areoutstanding,suchasloancommitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcredit.TheCompany™spricing

ofsuchfinancialinstrumentsisbasedlargelyoncreditqualityandrelationship,probabilityoffundingand

otherrequirements.Loancommitmentsoftenhavefixedexpirationdatesandcontainterminationand

otherclauseswhichprovideforrelieffromfundingintheeventofsignificantdeteriorationinthecredit

qualityofthecustomer.TheratesandtermsoftheCompany™sloancommitments,creditguaranteesand

lettersofcreditarecompetitivewithotherfinancialinstitutionsoperatinginmarketsservedbythe

Company.TheCompanybelievesthatthecarryingamounts,whichareincludedinotherliabilities,are

reasonableestimatesofthefairvalueofthesefinancialinstruments.
162TheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheestimatedinformationpresentedhereinisrepresentativeof
theearningspowerorvalueoftheCompany.Theprecedinganalysis,whichisinherentlylimitedin
depictingfairvalue,alsodoesnotconsideranyvalueassociatedwithexistingcustomerrelationshipsnorthe

abilityoftheCompanytocreatevaluethroughloanorigination,depositgatheringorfeegenerating

activities.Manyoftheestimatespresentedhereinarebasedupontheuseofhighlysubjectiveinformationand
assumptionsand,accordingly,theresultsmaynotbeprecise.Managementbelievesthatfairvalueestimates

maynotbecomparablebetweenfinancialinstitutionsduetothewiderangeofpermittedvaluation

techniquesandnumerousestimateswhichmustbemade.Furthermore,becausethedisclosedfairvalue

amountswereestimatedasofthebalancesheetdate,theamountsactuallyrealizedorpaiduponmaturityor

settlementofthevariousfinancialinstrumentscouldbesignificantlydifferent.
21.Commitmentsandcontingencies
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilitiesareoutstanding.The

followingtablepresentstheCompany™ssignificantcommitments.Certainofthesecommitmentsarenot

includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
Commitmentstoextendcredit
Homeequitylinesofcredit
.........................................$
6,393,332$6,281,366
Commercialrealestateloanstobesold
...............................177,98272,930
Othercommercialrealestateandconstruction
.........................2,818,0711,672,006
Residentialrealestateloanstobesold
................................182,474161,583
Otherresidentialrealestate
.........................................129,466151,111
Commercialandother
............................................10,442,7548,332,199
Standbylettersofcredit
..............................................3,930,2713,917,318
Commerciallettersofcredit
..........................................44,98176,962
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontracts
.......................1,903,2541,609,944
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans
..................................635,899734,696
Commitmentstoextendcreditareagreementstolendtocustomers,generallyhavingfixed
expirationdatesorotherterminationclausesthatmayrequirepaymentofafee.Standbyandcommercial

lettersofcreditareconditionalcommitmentsissuedtoguaranteetheperformanceofacustomertoathird

party.Standbylettersofcreditgenerallyarecontingentuponthefailureofthecustomertoperform

accordingtothetermsoftheunderlyingcontractwiththethirdparty,whereascommerciallettersofcredit

areissuedtofacilitatecommerceandtypicallyresultinthecommitmentbeingfundedwhentheunderlying

transactionisconsummatedbetweenthecustomerandathirdparty.Thecreditriskassociatedwith

commitmentstoextendcreditandstandbyandcommerciallettersofcreditisessentiallythesameasthat

involvedwithextendingloanstocustomersandissubjecttonormalcreditpolicies.Collateralmaybe

obtainedbasedonmanagement™sassessmentofthecustomer™screditworthiness.
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontractsareoftentimessimilartostandbylettersofcredit
andincludemandatorypurchaseagreementsissuedtoensurethatcustomerobligationsarefulfilled,

recourseobligationsassociatedwithsoldloans,andotherguaranteesofcustomerperformanceor

compliancewithdesignatedrulesandregulations.Includedinfinancialguaranteesandindemnification

contractsareloanprincipalamountssoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sinvolvementin

theFannieMaeDUSprogram.TheCompany™smaximumcreditriskforrecourseassociatedwithloanssold

underthisprogramtotaledapproximately$1.8billionand$1.6billionatDecember31,2011and2010,

respectively.Sincemanyloancommitments,standbylettersofcredit,andguaranteesandindemnification
contractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenotnecessarily

indicativeoffuturecashflows.
163TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgeexposuretochangesinthefair
valueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredderivativesandalongwith
commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsalearegenerallyrecordedintheconsolidated

balancesheetatestimatedfairmarketvalue.
TheCompanyoccupiescertainbankingofficesandusescertainequipmentundernoncancellable
operatingleaseagreementsexpiringatvariousdatesoverthenext28years.Minimumleasepaymentsunder

noncancellableoperatingleasesaresummarizedinthefollowingtable:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2012.........................................................................$
81,1682013.........................................................................75,3392014.........................................................................63,5122015.........................................................................53,9032016.........................................................................41,324Lateryears
....................................................................128,505$443,751TheCompanyhasanagreementwiththeBaltimoreRavensoftheNationalFootballLeaguewhereby
theCompanyobtainedthenamingrightstoafootballstadiuminBaltimore,Maryland.Underthe

agreement,theCompanyisobligatedtopay$5millionperyearthrough2013and$6millionperyearfrom

2014through2017.
TheCompanyreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbyconsumerloan
customers.TheCompanyalsoentersintoreinsurancecontractswiththirdpartyinsurancecompanieswho

insureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™spaymentdefaultinconnectionwithcertainmortgageloans

originatedbytheCompany.Whenprovidingreinsurancecoverage,theCompanyreceivesapremiumin

exchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofloss.Theoutstandingloanprincipalbalances

reinsuredbytheCompanywereapproximately$74millionatDecember31,2011.Assetsofsubsidiaries

providingreinsurancethatareavailabletosatisfyclaimstotaledapproximately$48millionatDecember31,

2011.Theamountsnotedabovearenotnecessarilyindicativeoflosseswhichmayultimatelybeincurred.

Suchlossesareexpectedtobesubstantiallylessbecausemostloansarerepaidbyborrowersinaccordance

withtheoriginalloanterms.Managementbelievesthatanyreinsurancelossesthatmaybepayablebythe

CompanywillnotbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthatdo
notultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.When

requiredtodoso,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurcha
sersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertain

loans.TheCompanyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesbyanestimateforlossesrelatedtoits

obligationstoloanpurchasers.Theamountofthosechargesisbasedonthevolumeofloanssold,thelevelof

reimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthatmaybeassociatedwith

previouslysoldloans.AtDecember31,2011,managementbelievesthatanyremainingliabilityarisingoutofthe

Company™sobligationtoloanpurchasersisnotmaterialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingandthreatened
legalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Management,afterconsultationwithlegal

counsel,doesnotanticipatethattheaggregateultimateliabilityarisingoutoflitigationpendingorthreatened

againstM&ToritssubsidiarieswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.Onan

on-goingbasistheCompanyassessesitsliabilitiesandcontingenciesinconnectionwithsuchlegalproceedings.

ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincurlossesandtheamountsofthelossescanbe

reasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseand
correspondingliabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancial
statements.Totheextentthependingorthreatenedlitigationcouldresultinexposureinexcessofthatliability,

theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrentlyestimable.Althoughnotconsideredprobable,therangeofreasonably

possiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,wasbetween$0and$40

million.AlthoughtheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheoutcomeofpendinglitigationswillbematerialtothe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialposition,itcannotruleoutthepossibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerial

totheconsolidatedresultsofoperationsforaparticularreportingperiodinthefuture.
16422.Segmentinformation
ReportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbasedupontheCompany™sinternalprofitabilityreporting
system,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunitshavebeencombined

forsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsandservices,thetypeof

customerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportablesegmentsare

BusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,Residential

MortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentshasbeencompiledutilizingtheaccounting
policiesdescribedinnote1withcertainexceptions.Themoresignificantoftheseexceptionsaredescribed

herein.TheCompanyallocatesinterestincomeorinterestexpenseusingamethodologythatchargesusers

offunds(assets)interestexpenseandcreditsprovidersoffunds(liabilities)withincomebasedonthe

maturity,prepaymentand/orrepricingcharacteristicsoftheassetsandliabilities.Theneteffectofthis

allocationisrecordedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisallocatedtosegmentsinan

amountbasedlargelyonactualnetcharge-offsincurredbythesegmentduringtheperiodplusorminusan

amountnecessarytoadjustthesegment™sallowanceforcreditlossesduetochangesinloanbalances.In

contrast,theleveloftheconsolidatedprovisionforcreditlossesisdeterminedusingthemethodologies

describedinnotes1and5.Indirectfixedandvariableexpensesincurredbycertaincentralizedsupportareas

areallocatedtosegmentsbasedonactualusage(forexample,volumemeasurements)andothercriteria.

Certaintypesofadministrativeexpensesandbankwideexpenseaccruals(includingamortizationofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsassociatedwithacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions)aregenerallynot

allocatedtosegments.IncometaxesareallocatedtosegmentsbasedontheCompany™smarginalstatutory

taxrateadjustedforanytax-exemptincomeornon-deductibleexpenses.Equityisallocatedtothesegments

basedonregulatorycapitalrequirementsandinproportiontoanassessmentoftheinherentrisksassociated

withthebusinessofthesegment(includinginterest,creditandoperatingrisk).
Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocessesutilizedincompilingsegmentfinancial
informationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidance

similartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentresultsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilar

informationreportedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureor

allocationmethodologiesandproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.

InformationabouttheCompany™ssegmentsispresentedintheaccompanyingtable.Incomestatement

amountsareinthousandsofdollars.Balancesheetamountsareinmillionsofdollars.
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
BusinessBanking
CommercialBanking
CommercialRealEstate
DiscretionaryPortfolio
201120102009201120102009201120102009201120102009Netinterestincome(a)...................$
334,811$315,407$321,208$655,407$582,231$531,592$467,683$384,147$
346,513$63,030$23,347$137,507
Noninterestincome.....................95,42995,44389,043
249,150217,368192,97999,40985,20065,22498,770(34,383)(100,507)
430,240410,850410,251904,557799,599724,571567,092469,347411,
737161,800(11,036)37,000
Provisionforcreditlosses................45,68974,44341,92329,82347,675
107,87158,47445,78184,61459,30955,81083,139
Amortizationofcoredeposit
andotherintangibleassets..............
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Depreciationandotheramortization........1402768575535526289,0547,3395,9342,8593,7335,506
Othernoninterestexpense................
177,172169,878158,042248,428219,471210,180154,042124,674
103,12432,26226,25627,070
Income(loss)beforetaxes................
207,239166,253209,429625,753531,901405,892345,522291,553218,065
67,370(96,835)(78,715)
Incometaxexpense(benefit)..............84,53267,68785,387
256,311217,734166,459105,70988,466
62,7117,975(58,269)(50,692)
Netincome(loss).......................$
122,707$98,566$124,042$369,442$314,167$239,433$239,813$203,087$155,354$59,395$(38,566)$(28,023)
Averagetotalassets(inmillions)...........$5,192$4,843$4,869$17,650$15,461$15,399$15,025$13,194$12,842$14,170$14,690$13,763
Capitalexpenditures(inmillions)..........$Š$1$1$Š$3$Š$Š$1$1$Š$Š$Š
165FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
ResidentialMortgage
Banking
RetailBanking
AllOther
Total201120102009201120102009201120102009201120102009Netinterestincome(a).........$63,951$71,599$78,865$
851,332$839,828$878,520$(46,458)$50,967$(
238,457)$2,389,756$2
,267,526$2,055,748
Noninterestincome...........
184,249195,540226,659366,042380,015372,821489,863168,917201,887
1,582,9121,108,1001,048,106
248,200267,139305,5241,217,
3741,219,8431,251,341443,405219,884(36,570)3,972,6683,375,6263,103,854
Provisionforcreditlosses......36,37549,11097,816
101,679109,978130,509(61,349)(
14,797)58,128270,000368,000604,000
Amortizationofcoredeposit
andotherintangibleassets....ŠŠŠŠŠŠ61,61758,10364,25561,61758,10364,255
Depreciationandother
amortization..............44,34946,17151,55233,71331,35031,29945,49534,83830,890
136,163124,259126,666
Othernoninterestexpense......
151,945160,131185,829744,905698,540689,314771,534333,525416,083
2,280,2881,732,4751,789,642
Income(loss)beforetaxes......15,53111,727(29,
673)337,077379,975400,219(373,892)(191,785)(605,926)1,224,
6001,092,789519,291
Incometaxexpense(benefit)....2,403587(16,
629)137,161154,680162,957(228,970)(
114,257)(270,793)365,121356,628139,400
Netincome(loss)............$13,128$11,140$(13,
044)$199,916$225,295$237,262$(144,922)$(77,528)$(335,133)$859,479$736,161$379,891
Averagetotalassets(in
millions).................$1,958$2,217$2,552$11,940$12,079$12,024$8,042$5,896$6,023$73,977$68,380$67,472
Capitalexpenditures(in
millions).................$Š$1$Š$25$33$39$45$31$18$70$70$59
(a)Netinterestincomeisthedifferencebetweenactualtaxable-equivalentinterestearnedonassetsandinterest
paidonliabilitiesbyasegmentandafundingcharge(credit)basedontheCompany™sinternalfunds
transferpricingmethodology.Segmentsarechargedacosttofundanyassets(e.g.loans)andarepaida

fundingcreditforanyfundsprovided(e.g.deposits).Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentaggregated

$25,876,000in2011,$24,023,000in2010and$21,829,000in2009andiseliminatedinﬁAllOtherﬂnet

interestincomeandincometaxexpense(benefit).
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesdeposit,lending,cashmanagementandotherfinancial
servicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionalsthroughtheCompany™sbankingofficenetworkandseveral

otherdeliverychannels,includingbusinessbankingcenters,telephonebanking,Internetbankingand

automatedtellermachines.TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsand

bankingservicestomiddle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsthe

Companyserves.Amongtheservicesprovidedbythissegmentarecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersof

credit,depositproductsandcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovides

creditserviceswhicharesecuredbyvarioustypesofmultifamilyresidentialandcommercialrealestateand

depositservicestoitscustomers.Activitiesofthissegmentincludetheorigination,salesandservicingof

commercialrealestateloans.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludessecurities,residentialmortgage

loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdepositand

interestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsbranchdeposits.Thissegmentalso

providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesand

servicesresidentialmortgageloansforconsumersandsellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondary

markettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegment.Thesegmentperiodicallypurchasesservicing

rightstoloansthathavebeenoriginatedbyotherentities.Thissegmentalsooriginatedloanstodevelopers

ofresidentialrealestateproperties.ResidentialmortgageloansheldforsaleareincludedintheResidential

MortgageBankingsegment.TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthrough

severaldeliverychannelsthatincludebankingoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingand

Internetbanking.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryincludesotheroperatingactivitiesoftheCompanythatarenot

directlyattributabletothereportedsegments;thedifferencebetweentheprovisionforcreditlossesandthe

calculatedprovisionallocatedtothereportablesegments;goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangible

assetsresultingfromacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions;merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfrom

acquisitions;thenetimpactoftheCompany™sinternalfundstransferpricingmethodology;eliminationsof

transactionsbetweenreportablesegments;certainnonrecurringtransactions;theresidualeffectsof

unallocatedsupportsystemsandgeneralandadministrativeexpenses;andtheimpactofinterestraterisk
166managementstrategies.Theamountofintersegmentactivityeliminatedinarrivingatconsolidatedtotals
wasincludedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
Revenues...............................................$(64,239)$(41,508)$(47,114)
Expenses...............................................(14,146)(15,527)(19,164)
Incometaxes(benefit)
....................................(20,383)(10,572)(11,373)
Netincome(loss)
........................................(29,710)(15,409)(16,577)
TheCompanyconductssubstantiallyallofitsoperationsintheUnitedStates.Thereareno
transactionswithasinglecustomerthatintheaggregateresultinrevenuesthatexceedtenpercentof

consolidatedtotalrevenues.
23.Regulatorymatters
PaymentofdividendsbyM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesisrestrictedbyvariouslegalandregulatory

limitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbytheamountofearningsofthe

bankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandtheprecedingtwoyears.Forpurposesofthistest,at

December31,2011,approximately$1.0billionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&Tfrom

bankingsubsidiaries.
BankingregulationsprohibitextensionsofcreditbythesubsidiarybankstoM&Tunless
appropriatelysecuredbyassets.Securitiesofaffiliatesarenoteligibleascollateralforthispurpose.
Thebanksubsidiariesarerequiredtomaintainreservesagainstcertaindepositliabilitieswhichmay
besatisfiedwithvaultcashandbalancesondepositwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYork.Duringthe

maintenanceperiodsthatincludedDecember31,2011and2010,cashandduefrombanksincludedadaily

averageof$382,489,000and$196,402,000,respectively,forsuchpurpose.
Federalregulatorshaveadoptedcapitaladequacyguidelinesforbankholdingcompaniesandbanks.
Failuretomeetminimumcapitalrequirementscanresultincertainmandatory,andpossiblyadditional

discretionary,actionsbyregulatorsthat,ifundertaken,couldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™s

financialstatements.Underthecapitaladequacyguidelines,theso-calledﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁTotalcapitalﬂ

asapercentageofrisk-weightedassetsandcertainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsmustbeatleast

4%and8%,respectively.Inadditiontotheserisk-basedmeasures,regulatorsalsorequirebanking

institutionsthatmeetcertainqualitativecriteriatomaintainaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioofﬁTier1capitalﬂ

toaveragetotalassets,adjustedforgoodwillandcertainotheritems,ofatleast3%tobeconsidered

adequatelycapitalized.AsofDecember31,2011,M&Tandeachofitsbankingsubsidiariesexceededall

applicablecapitaladequacyrequirements.Tobeconsideredﬁwellcapitalized,ﬂundertheregulatory

frameworkforpromptcorrectiveaction,abankinginstitutionmustmaintainTier1risk-basedcapital,total

risk-basedcapitalandleverageratiosofatleast6%,10%and5%,respectively.
167ThecapitalratiosandamountsoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,2011
and2010arepresentedbelow:
M&T(Consolidated)M&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Dollarsinthousands)
December31,2011:
Tier1capital
Amount...............................................$6,
926,218$6,283,825$393,360
Ratio(a)...............................................9.67%8.87%71.89%

Minimumrequiredamount(b).............................2,
864,0022,832,55821,887
Totalcapital..............................................
Amount...............................................9,
493,1248,587,360399,177
Ratio(a)...............................................13.26%12.13%72.95%

Minimumrequiredamount(b).............................5,
728,0055,665,11643,774
LeverageAmount...............................................6,
926,2186,283,825393,360
Ratio(c)...............................................9.28%8.54%19.20%

Minimumrequiredamount(b).............................2,
239,6392,206,49861,478
December31,2010:

Tier1capital
Amount...............................................$6,
051,724$5,406,330$190,151
Ratio(a)...............................................9.47%8.62%26.80%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).............................2,
555,2152,508,89728,386
Totalcapital
Amount...............................................8,
352,6437,686,799196,140
Ratio(a)...............................................13.08%12.26%27.64%

Minimumrequiredamount(b).............................5,
110,4315,017,79556,772
LeverageAmount...............................................6,
051,7245,406,330190,151
Ratio(c)...............................................9.33%8.46%22.54%

Minimumrequiredamount(b).............................1,
946,3121,916,03325,307
(a)Theratioofcapitaltorisk-weightedassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
(b)Minimumamountofcapitaltobeconsideredadequatelycapitalized,asdefinedbyregulation.

(c)Theratioofcapitaltoaverageassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
24.RelationshipofM&TandAIB
AIBreceived26,700,000sharesofM&TcommonstockonApril1,2003asaresultofM&T™sacquisitionofa
subsidiaryofAIBonthatdate.InanefforttoraiseitscapitalpositiontomeetnewIrishgovernment-

mandatedcapitalrequirements,AIBsoldthosesharesonNovember4,2010and,asaresult,theprovisions

oftheAgreementandPlanofReorganizationbetweenM&TandAIBrelatedtoAIB™srightsasasubstantial

shareholderinthecorporategovernanceofM&Tbecameinoperativeasofthatdate.
25.RelationshipwithBayviewLendingGroupLLCandBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.
M&Tholdsa20%interestinBLG,aprivately-heldcommercialmortgagelender.M&Trecognizesincome

orlossfromBLGusingtheequitymethodofaccounting.In2011,theCompanyrecognizeda$79million

other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoitsinvestmentinBLGthatisincludedinﬁothercostsof

operations.ﬂThecarryingvalueofthatinvestmentwas$115millionatDecember31,2011.Further

informationconcerningtheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeisprovidedinnote20.
168BayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.(togetherwithitsaffiliates,ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ),aprivately-held
specialtymortgagefinancecompany,isBLG™smajorityinvestor.Inadditiontotheircommoninvestmentin
BLG,theCompanyandBayviewFinancialconductotherbusinessactivitieswitheachother.TheCompany

hasobtainedloanservicingrightsforsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansfromBLGandBayview

Financialhavingoutstandingprincipalbalancesof$4.4billionand$5.2billionatDecember31,2011and

2010,respectively.Amountsrecordedascapitalizedservicingassetsforsuchloanstotaled$16millionat

December31,2011and$26millionatDecember31,2010.Inaddition,capitalizedservicingrightsat

December31,2011and2010alsoincluded$5millionand$9million,respectively,forservicingrightsthat

wereobtainedfromBayviewFinancialrelatedtoresidentialmortgageloanswithoutstandingprincipal

balancesof$3.1billionand$3.6billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.TheCompany

sub-servicesresidentialmortgageloansforBayviewFinancialhavingoutstandingprincipalbalancestotaling

$13.1billionatDecember31,2011.Sub-servicedloanswerenotsignificantatDecember31,2010.Revenues

fromservicingresidentialandsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansobtainedfromBLGandBayview

Financialwere$41million,$46millionand$50millionduring2011,2010and2009,respectively.The

Companyheld$15millionand$22millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,ofcollateralized

mortgageobligationsinitsavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliothatweresecuritizedbyBayview

Financial.Inaddition,theCompanyheld$269millionand$313millionofsimilarinvestmentsecuritiesin

itsheld-to-maturityportfolioatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
26.Parentcompanyfinancialstatements
CondensedBalanceSheet
December31
20112010(Inthousands)
AssetsCashinsubsidiarybank
..............................................$
3,798$1,784
Duefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
Money-marketsavings
............................................645,330481,340
Currentincometaxreceivable
......................................Š
2,664Totalduefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
.......................645,330484,004
Investmentsinconsolidatedsubsidiaries
Banksandbankholdingcompany
...................................9,929,7589,048,703
Other..........................................................16,02530,978
Investmentsinunconsolidatedsubsidiaries(note19)
......................34,09134,257
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
.............................115,000219,800
Otherassets
.......................................................82,35888,976
Totalassets
....................................................$10,826,360$9,908,502
Liabilities
Duetoconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
..................................$30$20
Accruedexpensesandotherliabilities
..................................75,82873,283
Long-termborrowings(a)
...........................................1,479,2931,477,504
Totalliabilities
.................................................1,555,1511,550,807
Shareholders™equity
................................................9,271,2098,357,695
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
............................$10,826,360$9,908,502
169CondensedStatementofIncome
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
IncomeDividendsfromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
..................$715
,000$500,000$Š
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
...............(24,231)(25,768)(25,898)
Otherincome
.............................................67,829(5,435)10,670
Totalincome
...........................................758
,598468,797(15,228)
Expense
Interestonlong-termborrowings
.............................90,95991,07393,331
Otherexpense(b)
..........................................87,3687,4475,427
Totalexpense
...........................................178,32798,52098,758
Income(loss)beforeincometaxesandequityinundistributed
incomeofsubsidiaries
....................................580
,271370,277(113,986)
Incometaxcredits
.........................................50,46048,41642,740
Income(loss)beforeequityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
....630
,731418,693(71,246)
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries

Netincomeofsubsidiaries
...................................943,748817,468451,137
Less:dividendsreceived
.....................................(715
,000)(500,000)Š
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
..................228
,748317,468451,137
Netincome
...............................................$
859,479$736,161$379,891
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic..................................................$
6.37$5.72$2.90
Diluted................................................6.355.692.89
(a)Includes$300million5.375%seniornotesofM&Tissuedin2007thatmatureinMay2012.
(b)In2011includes$79millionwrite-downofInvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC.
170CondensedStatementofCashFlows
YearEndedDecember31
201120102009(Inthousands)
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
...............................................$
859,479$736,161$379,891
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedby
operatingactivities

Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
................(228,748)(317,468)(451,137)
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
.........................(10,349)2,237291
Assetwrite-downs
.......................................79,012ŠŠ
Netchangeinaccruedincomeandexpense
...................44,33643,56714,589
Netcashprovided(used)byoperatingactivities
...............743,730464,497(56,366)
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities

Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
....................1,9872,591Š
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
................4,4001,1506,600
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
............................Š
(2,225)(1,855)
Investmentinsubsidiary
....................................ŠŠ
(120,000)Proceedsfromrepaymentofadvancestosubsidiaries
.............ŠŠ
200,000PurchaseofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
........(330,000)ŠŠ
Other,net
................................................2,8331,03315,088
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities
................(320,780)2,54999,833
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities

Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
...........................ŠŠ
(111,046)DividendspaidŠcommon
.................................(350,129)(335,303)(325,706)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
.................................(48,203)(40,225)(31,946)
Proceedsfromsubsidiaryforissuanceofcommonstocktodefined
benefitpensionplan
......................................ŠŠ
44,289Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
......................495,000ŠŠ
Redemptionofpreferredstock
...............................(370,000)ŠŠ
Other,net
................................................16,38663,12212,255
Netcashusedbyfinancingactivities
.......................(256,946)(312,406)(412,154)
Netincrease(decrease)incashandcashequivalents
..............166,004154,640(368,687)
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
..................483,124328,484697,171
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
.......................$
649,128$483,124$328,484
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation

Interestreceivedduringtheyear
..............................$
2,082$1,581$4,960
Interestpaidduringtheyear
.................................87,18487,45692,247
Incometaxesreceivedduringtheyear
.........................57,96450,88245,745
171Item9.
ChangesInandDisagreementsWithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancialDisclosure.
None.Item9A.
ControlsandProcedures.
(a)Evaluationofdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures.Basedupontheirevaluationoftheeffectiveness
ofM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActrules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e)),
RobertG.Wilmers,ChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer,andRenéF.Jones,ExecutiveVice

PresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer,concludedthatM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedureswere

effectiveasofDecember31,2011.
(b)Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.Includedunderthe
headingﬁReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReporton

Form10-K.
(c)Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm.IncludedundertheheadingﬁReport
ofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirmﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
(d)Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.M&Tregularlyassessestheadequacyofits
internalcontroloverfinancialreportingandenhancesitscontrolsinresponsetointernalcontrol

assessmentsandinternalandexternalauditandregulatoryrecommendations.Nochangesininternal

controloverfinancialreportinghavebeenidentifiedinconnectionwiththeevaluationofdisclosure

controlsandproceduresduringthequarterendedDecember31,2011thathavemateriallyaffected,orare

reasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,M&T™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Item9B.
OtherInformation.
None.PARTIII
Item10.
Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sdirectorsisincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁNOMINEES
FORDIRECTORﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2012AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2012.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedunderthecaptionﬁExecutive
OfficersoftheRegistrantﬂcontainedinPartIofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
DisclosureofcompliancewithSection16(a)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,by
theRegistrant™sdirectorsandexecutiveofficers,andpersonswhoarethebeneficialownersofmorethan

10%oftheRegistrant™scommonstock,isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSection16(a)Beneficial

OwnershipReportingComplianceﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2012

AnnualMeetingofShareholderswhichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononor

aboutMarch7,2012.
TheotherinformationrequiredbyItem10isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptions
ﬁCORPORATEGOVERNANCEOFM&TBANKCORPORATION,ﬂﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,

COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂandﬁCODESOFBUSINESSCONDUCTAND

ETHICSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2012AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2012.
Item11.
ExecutiveCompensation.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSAND
DIRECTORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2012AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2012.
Item12.
SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementandRelatedShareholder
Matters.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁPRINCIPALBENEFICIALOWNERSOFSHARESﬂandﬁSTOCK

OWNERSHIPBYDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVEOFFICERSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitive

ProxyStatementforits2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesand

ExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2012.
172TheinformationrequiredbythisitemconcerningEquityCompensationPlaninformationis
incorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSAND
DIRECTORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2012AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2012.
Item13.
CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁTRANSACTIONSWITHDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVE
OFFICERSﬂandﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂ

containedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders,which

willbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2012.
Item14.
PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁPROPOSALTORATIFYTHEAPPOINTMENTOF
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERSLLPASTHEINDEPENDENTREGISTEREDPUBLICACCOUNTING

FIRMOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits

2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionon

oraboutMarch7,2012.
PARTIV
Item15.
ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules.
(a)FinancialstatementsandfinancialstatementschedulesfiledaspartofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.SeePartII,Item8.ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂFinancialstatement

schedulesarenotrequiredorareinapplicable,andthereforehavebeenomitted.
(b)ExhibitsrequiredbyItem601ofRegulationS-K.TheexhibitslistedontheExhibitIndexofthis
AnnualReportonForm10-Khavebeenpreviouslyfiled,arefiledherewithorareincorporatedhereinby

referencetootherfilings.
(c)Additionalfinancialstatementschedules.None.
173SignaturesPursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,theRegistrant
hasdulycausedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntodulyauthorized,onthe

23rddayofFebruary,2012.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
By:/S/ROBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardand
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensigned
belowbythefollowingpersonsonbehalfoftheRegistrantandinthecapacitiesandonthedatesindicated.
SignatureTitleDatePrincipalExecutiveOfficer:
/s/R
OBERTG.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardandFebruary23,2012
RobertG.WilmersChiefExecutiveOfficer
PrincipalFinancialOfficer:
/s/R
ENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentandFebruary23,2012
RenéF.JonesChiefFinancialOfficer
PrincipalAccountingOfficer:
/s/M
ICHAELR.S
PYCHALASeniorVicePresidentand
February23,2012
MichaelR.Spychala
ControllerAmajorityoftheboardofdirectors:
/s/B
RENT
D.B
AIRDFebruary23,2012
BrentD.Baird
/s/R
OBERTJ.B
ENNETTFebruary23,2012
RobertJ.Bennett
/s/C.A
NGELABONTEMPOFebruary23,2012
C.AngelaBontempo
/s/R
OBERTT.B
RADY
February23,2012
RobertT.Brady
/s/M
ICHAELD.B
UCKLEYFebruary23,2012
MichaelD.Buckley
/s/T.J
EFFERSONCUNNINGHAMIIIFebruary23,2012
T.JeffersonCunninghamIII
/s/M
ARKJ.C
ZARNECKI
February23,2012
MarkJ.Czarnecki
174/s/D
ONALDE.F
OLEYFebruary23,2012
DonaldE.Foley
/s/G
ARYN.G
EISELFebruary23,2012
GaryN.Geisel
/s/P
ATRICKW.E.H
ODGSONFebruary23,2012
PatrickW.E.Hodgson
/s/R
ICHARDG.K
INGFebruary23,2012
RichardG.King
/s/J
ORGEG.P
EREIRAFebruary23,2012
JorgeG.Pereira
/s/M
ICHAELP.P
INTOFebruary23,2012
MichaelP.Pinto
/s/M
ELINDAR.R
ICHFebruary23,2012
MelindaR.Rich
/S/ROBERTE.S
ADLER,JR.February23,2012
RobertE.Sadler,Jr.
HerbertL.Washington
/s/R
OBERTG.W
ILMERSFebruary23,2012
RobertG.Wilmers
175EXHIBITINDEX
3.1RestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporationdatedNovember18,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(FileNo.1-
9861).3.2AmendedandRestatedBylawsofM&TBankCorporation,effectiveNovember16,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(FileNo.1-

9861).3.3CertificateofAmendmenttoCertificateofIncorporationwithrespecttoPerpetual6.875%Non-
CumulativePreferredStock,SeriesD,datedMay26,2011(incorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit

99.2ofM&TBankCorporation™sForm8-KdatedMay26,2011).
4.1Therearenoinstrumentswithrespecttolong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationandits
subsidiariesthatinvolvesecuritiesauthorizedundertheinstrumentinanamountexceeding

10percentofthetotalassetsofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesonaconsolidated

basis.M&TBankCorporationagreestoprovidetheSECwithacopyofinstrumentsdefiningthe

rightsofholdersoflong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesonrequest.
4.2WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockdatedDecember23,
2008.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1totheForm8-KdatedDecember19,2008(File

No.1-9861).
10.1CreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationand
Citibank,N.A.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm10-Kfortheyearended

December31,2000(FileNo.1-9861).
10.2AmendmentNo.1,datedDecember9,2003,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(FileNo.1-9861).
10.3AmendmentNo.2,datedJanuary30,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2008(FileNo.1-9861).
10.4AmendmentNo.3,datedDecember4,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.4totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2009(FileNo.1-9861).
10.5AmendmentNo.4,datedDecember3,2010,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit

10.5totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2010(FileNo.1-9861).
10.6AmendmentNo.5,datedNovember21,2011,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Filedherewith.
10.7M&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoAppendixAto
theProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2001(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.8M&TBankCorporationAnnualExecutiveIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
ExhibitNo.10.3totheForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.9SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreementbetweenManufacturersandTraders
TrustCompanyandBrianE.HickeydatedasofJuly21,1994.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.8totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1995(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.10Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
AgreementbetweenManufacturersandTradersTrustCompanyandBrianE.Hickeydatedasof

July21,1994.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm10-Qforthequarterended

September30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.11SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEastNew
YorkSavingsBankandAtwoodCollins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11tothe

Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1991(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.12Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
Agreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEastNewYorkSavingsBankandAtwood

Collins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-Qforthequarterended

September30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.13M&TBankCorporationSupplementalPensionPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.14M&TBankCorporationSupplementalRetirementSavingsPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
17610.15M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.12totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2004(FileNo.1-
9861).*10.16M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1to
theFormS-8datedApril7,2008(FileNo.333-150122).*
10.17KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1992DirectorFeePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11to
theForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1999(FileNo.000-

11460).*10.18M&TBankCorporationEmployeeStockPurchasePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.28totheForm10-QforthequarterendedSeptember30,2002(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.19M&TBankCorporation2005IncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
AppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch4,2005(File

No.1-9861).*
10.20M&TBankCorporation2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreference
toAppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2009(File

No.1-9861).*
10.21M&TBankCorporationEmployeeSeverancePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2to
theForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.22ProvidentBanksharesCorporationAmendedandRestatedStockOptionPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit4.1totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009(File

No.333-159795).*
10.23ProvidentBanksharesCorporation2004EquityCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibit4.2totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009(FileNo.333-

159795).*10.24WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2002Long-TermIncentivePlan.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.64totheQuarterlyReportonForm10-Qof

WilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledonNovember9,2004(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.25WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2005Long-TermIncentivePlan.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.21totheAnnualReportonForm10-KofWilmington

TrustCorporationfiledonFebruary29,2008(FileNo.1-14659).
10.26WilmingtonTrustCorporation2009Long-TermIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
ExhibitDtotheProxyStatementofWilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledonMarch16,2009

(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.27LetterAgreementincludingtheSecuritiesPurchaseAgreementŠStandardTermsincorporated
therein,betweenM&TBankCorporationandtheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury,dated

December23,2008.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-Kdated

December19,2008(FileNo.1-9861).
11.1Statementre:ComputationofEarningsPerCommonShare.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
note14ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatements

andSupplementaryData.ﬂ
12.1RatioofEarningstoFixedCharges.Filedherewith.

14.1M&TBankCorporationCodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit14.1totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(FileNo.1-

9861).21.1SubsidiariesoftheRegistrant.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSubsidiariesﬂcontained
inPartI,Item1hereof.
23.1ConsentofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPre:RegistrationStatementNos.333-57330,333-
63660,33-12207,33-58500,33-63917,333-43171,333-43175,333-63985,333-97031,33-32044,

333-16077,333-84384,333-127406,333-150122,333-164015,333-163992,333-160769,333-

159795,333-170740and333-155759.Filedherewith.
31.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.
Filedherewith.
31.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.
Filedherewith.
32.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
32.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
17799.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderEESA§111(b)(4).Filedherewith.
99.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderEESA§111(b)(4).Filedherewith.

99.3ReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporationdatedJanuary31,2008.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit99.1totheForm8-KdatedJanuary31,2008

(FileNo.1-9861).
99.4AmendmenttoReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporation,datedasof
May27,2011,amendingtheReplacementCapitalCovenant,datedasofJanuary31,2008

(incorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit99.2ofM&TBankCorporation™sForm8-Kdated

May26,2011).
101.INS**XBRLInstanceDocument.

101.SCH**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchema.

101.CAL**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbase.

101.LAB**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbase.

101.PRE**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbase.

101.DEF**XBRLTaxonomyDefinitionLinkbase.
*Managementcontractorcompensatoryplanorarrangement.
**AsprovidedinRule406TofRegulationS-T,thisinformationisfurnishedandnotfiledforpurposesof
Sections11and12oftheSecuritiesActof1933andSection18oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934.
178 DIVIDEND A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their dividends and
 REINVESTMENT PLAN   
voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock.
   INQUIRIES  
Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions about  
stock certi˜cates, dividend checks or other account information should be addressed to  

M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent:
 
 Registrar and Transfer Company
 10 Commerce Drive  
 Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572 800-368-5948
 E-mail address: info
@rtco.com
 Internet address: www.rtco.com
 
  Questions on other matters and requests for additional copies of this publication or annual 
 or quarterly reports ˜led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission  
(SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q), which are available at no charge, may be directed to:
 
 M&T Bank Corporation
 Shareholder Relations Department
 One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor
 Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399 716-842-5138
 E-mail address: ir
@mtb.com
  INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 
 QUOTATION AN
D TRA
DING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the symbol MTB on the 
 OF CO
MMON STOCK   
New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ). 
COVER AR
T˛e design used by young Mary King of Philadelphia for her silkwork tree-of-life picture was undoubtedly inspired by imported 
palampores (hand-painted cloths produced on the southeastern coast of India). ˛e motif of a ˝owering tree was truly a global 

design, a multicultural creation of European, Asian, and American in˝uences.
 Using ˜ne silks, as well as gold and silver thread on  

a bright yellow silk moiré background, she supplemented the central tree, scrolling branches, and large blossoms with strawberries, 

rabbits, and a beaded-eyed lion and leopard to create one of the most beautiful embroidery pieces of the 18th century. 
Winterthur Museum, Garden & Library Œ home to this year™s featured artwork Œ is considered the premier museum of decorative 
and ˜ne arts in America. Once the residence of Henry Francis du Pont, the 175-room house and adjacent galleries display more 

than 90,000 objects. ˛e du Ponts, the founding family of Wilmington Trust, are highly regarded for their philanthropic endeavors 

including this historic gem in Delaware. Proudly, the long-standing relationship between Wilmington Trust and Winterthur  

continues today with the added support of M&T Bank.
˛is is the eleventh in a series of annual reports to feature the work of regional artists in the communities served by M&T Bank.
Needlework picture
Worked by Mary King

United States, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 1754

Silk on silk

H: 18 ¼"  W: 24 ˙
"
Collection of the Winterthur Museum Œ Bequest of Henry Francis du Pont. 1966.978
M&T BANK CORPORA
TION 
2011 
ANNUAL 
REPOR
Twww.mtb.com 
M&T 
BANK C
ORPORATIO
N  /  
2011 
ANNUAL REPOR
T 100%
SEC 10
-K