2014 Annual ReportHuntingtonBancsharesIncorporatedisa$66billionassetregionalbankholdingcompanyheadquarteredin
Columbus,Ohio.TheHuntingtonNationalBank,foundedin1866,anditsaffiliatesprovidefull-service

commercial,smallbusiness,andconsumerbankingservices;mortgagebankingservices;treasurymanagement

andforeignexchangeservices;equipmentleasing;wealthandinvestmentmanagementservices;trustservices;

brokerageservices;customizedinsurancebrokerageandserviceprograms;andotherfinancialproductsand

services.TheprincipalmarketsfortheseservicesareHuntington’ssix-stateretailbankingfranchise:Ohio,

Michigan,Pennsylvania,Indiana,WestVirginia,andKentucky.Theprimarydistributionchannelsincludea

bankingnetworkofmorethan700traditionalbranchesandconveniencebrancheslocatedingrocerystoresand

retirementcenters,andthroughanarrayofalternativedistributionchannelsincludinginternetandmobile

banking,telephonebanking,andmorethan1,500ATMs.Throughautomotivedealershiprelationshipswithinits

six-stateretailbankingfranchiseareaandselectedotherMidwestandNortheaststates,Huntingtonalsoprovides

commercialbankingservicestotheautomotivedealersandretailautomobilefinancingfordealercustomers.
CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALHIGHLIGHTS
(Inmillions,exceptpershareamounts)2014
2013ChangeAmountChange
PercentNETINCOME$632.4
$641.3$(8.9)(1)%
PERCOMMONSHAREAMOUNTS
Netincomepercommonshare–diluted
..........................................$0.72
$0.72$——%
Cashdividenddeclaredpercommonshare
........................................0.210.190.0211
Tangiblebookvaluepercommonshare
(1).........................................6.626.260.366
PERFORMANCERATIOS
Returnonaveragetotalassets
..................................................1.01%1.14%(0.13)%
Returnonaveragetangiblecommonshareholders’equity
(2)...........................11.812.7(0.9)
Netinterestmargin
(3).........................................................3.233.36(0.13)
Efficiencyratio
(4)............................................................65.162.62.5
CAPITALRATIOS
Tier1risk-basedcapitalratio
(1).................................................11.50%12.28%(0.78)%
Totalrisk-basedcapitalratio
(1)..................................................13.5614.57(1.01)
Tangibleequity/tangibleassetsratio
(1)(5)(6)
.........................................8.769.47(0.71)
Tangiblecommonequity/tangibleassetratio
(1)(6)(7)
..................................8.178.82(0.65)
CREDITQUALITYMEASURES
Netcharge-offs(NCOs)
.......................................................$124.6
$188.7$(64.1)(34)%
NCOsasa%ofaverageloansandleases
.........................................0.27%0.45%(0.18)%
Non-accrualloans(NALs)
(1)...................................................$300.2
$322.1$(21.9)(7)%
NALratio
(1)(8)
...............................................................0.63%0.75%(0.12)%
Non-performingassets(NPAs)
(1)................................................$337.7
$352.2$(14.5)(4)%
NPAratio
(1)(9)
...............................................................0.71%0.82%(0.11)%
Allowanceforcreditlosses(ACL)
(1).............................................$666.0
$710.8$(44.8)(6)%
ACLasa%oftotalloansandleases
(1)...........................................1.40%1.65%(0.25)%
ACLasa%ofNALs
(1).......................................................2222211.0
BALANCESHEET–DECEMBER31,
Totalloansandleases
........................................................$47,655.7$43,120.5$4,535.211%
Totalassets
.................................................................66,298.059,467.26,830.811
Totaldeposits
...............................................................51,732.247,506.74,225.59
Totalshareholders’equity
.....................................................6,328.26,090.2238.04
(1)AtDecember31.
(2)Netincomeexcludingexpenseforamortizationofintangiblesfortheperioddividedbyaveragetangiblecommonshareholders’equity.
Averagetangiblecommonshareholders’equityequalsaveragetotalcommonshareholders’equitylessaverageintangibleassetsand

goodwill.Expenseforamortizationofintangiblesandaverageintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxliability,andcalculatedassuming

a35%taxrate.
(3)Onafully-taxableequivalent(FTE)basisassuminga35%taxrate.
(4)NoninterestexpenselessamortizationofintangiblesandgoodwillimpairmentdividedbythesumofFTEnetinterestincomeand

noninterestincomeexcludingsecuritieslosses.
(5)Tangibleequity(totalequitylessgoodwillandotherintangibleassets)dividedbytangibleassets(totalassetslessgoodwillandother

intangibleassets).Otherintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxandcalculatedassuminga35%taxrate.
(6)Tangibleequity,tangiblecommonequity,andtangibleassetsarenon-GAAPfinancialmeasures.Additionally,anyratiosutilizingthese

financialmeasuresarealsonon-GAAP.Thesefinancialmeasureshavebeenincludedastheyareconsideredtobecriticalmetricswith

whichtoanalyzeandevaluatefinancialconditionandcapitalstrength.Othercompaniesmaycalculatethesefinancialmeasures

differently.(7)Tangiblecommonequity(totalcommonequitylessgoodwillandotherintangibleassets)dividedbytangibleassets(totalassetsless

goodwillandotherintangibleassets).Otherintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxandcalculatedassuminga35%taxrate.
(8)NALsdividedbytotalloansandleases.
(9)NPAsdividedbythesumoftotalloansandleases,impairedloansheld-for-sale,andnetotherrealestate.
TOFELLOWOWNERSANDFRIENDS:
Iampleasedtoreport2014wasanothersolidyearforHuntington.Ourcolleaguesremainfocusedon
deliveringhighperformanceandcreatingvalueforourcustomersandshareholdersaswecontinuetomanage

throughthischallengingoperatingenvironment.Overthelastfiveyears,wehavecreatedacultureand

positionedtheCompanytoreduceriskanddelivermorestablereturnsthroughthecycle.Thisyearwasthefourth

yearinarowwithareturnonaverageassetsofover1%andareturnonaveragetangiblecommonequityof12%.

TheseresultsallowedtheCompanytoreturnover$500millionofournetincometoourinvestorsthroughan

increaseddividendandasharerepurchaseprogram,whilealsosupportingcontinuedinvestmentsanddouble-

digitbalancesheetgrowth.
Ourperformanceisdrivenbytheexecutionofourdifferentiatedstrategy.WehavepositionedHuntington
uniquelyinanindustrythatmanywouldconsiderfilledwith“me-too’s.”Weknowthisbecauseyearafteryear,

wereceivemultipleawardsfromthelikesofJ.D.Power,GreenwichAssociates,andtheSmallBusiness

Administration;wereceivedregulatoryapprovalforourthird-quarteracquisitioninnearrecordtime;andwe

readtheresultsofindependentsurveysthatplaceustopinourregionforthemostfavorablebrandandhighest

levelsofnetpromoterscore.Atatimeofgrowingcompetitionfromnotonlybanks,buttheever-increasing

numberofnonregulatedentities,whatismoreimportantthanthoseexternalaccoladesiswhatwehearfromour

customersandhowtheyinteractwithus.Since2010,thenumberofconsumerhouseholdshasgrownby48%and

commercialrelationshipsincreasedby30%.Atthesametime,customersaredoingmorewithus:thenumberof

customersusing4+productshasincreasedbyover10%tonearly80%forconsumerhouseholdsandnearly

doubledtoreach42%forcommercialrelationships.
Thegrowthinourrevenue,improvedcreditquality,andstrongcapitallevelsdemonstratedhowHuntington
colleagueshaverisentomeetthechallengesofthecurrentbankingenvironment.Letmeofferarecapof2014

performanceandthenourexpectationsfor2015.
In2014,wereportednetincomeof$632million,or$0.72percommonshare,relativelyunchangedfromthe
prioryear.Fullytaxableequivalenttotalrevenueincreased$100million,or4%,whichisatthelowerendofour

newlong-termgoalof4%-6%revenuegrowth.Fully-taxableequivalentnetinterestincomeincreased$133

million,or8%,whilenoninterestincomedecreasedby$33million,or3%.Importantly,wedeliveredonour

commitmentofpositiveoperatingleverage,andasweadjustedourlong-termthrough-the-cyclefinancialgoals

thatwefirstlaidoutin2010,wecrystalizedthatcommitmentbyformallyincludingpositiveoperatingleverage

asoneofourfivegoals.
Thenetinterestincomeincreasereflectedtheimpactof12%earningassetgrowthanda13basispoints
decreaseinthenetinterestmarginto3.23%.Theearningassetgrowthreflecteda$3.6billion,or9%,increasein

averageloansandleasesanda$2.7billion,or29%,increaseinaveragesecurities.Automobileloansand

CommercialandIndustrial(C&I)loans,twoareasofsignificantfocusofourstrategicinvestmentsofthelast

severalyears,drovethemajorityoftheloangrowth.Thesecuritiesgrowthprimarilyreflectedourpreparationfor

the2016phase-inimplementationofthemodifiedliquiditycoverageratio(LCR)requirementbyU.S.banking

regulators.Wecontinuetobedynamicinhowwefundourbalancesheetgrowth,andoverthecourseof2014,we
reducedfundingcostsby9basispointsbyremainingfocusedonbuildingprimarybankingrelationships.That

resultedingrowthofover$2.2billionofcoredeposits,including$1.1billionofnoninterest-bearingdemand

deposits.Thelargestsourceofinterest-bearingliabilitygrowthwasfromthe$3.2billionincreaseinshort-and

long-termborrowings.Borrowingshavebeenacosteffectivemethodtofundourincrementalsecuritiesgrowth,

andthechangeindepositmixreflectsourstrategicfocusonchangingfundingsources.
Thedecreaseinnoninterestincomeof$33million,or3%,primarilyreflectedthe$42milliondeclinein
mortgagebankingincomeasoriginationsdecreased,thegain-on-salemarginscompressed,andwasnegatively
1impactedbythenetmortgageservicingrightshedgingactivity.Double-digitelectronicbankingincomegrowth,
drivenbycustomergrowth,combinedwithincreasedsecuritiesgains,asweadjustedthemixofoursecurities

portfoliotoprepareforLCR,offsetadecreaseinotherfeeincome,trustservices,andlowerfeesassociatedwith

commercialloanandcapitalmarketactivity.
Noninterestexpenseincreased$124million,or7%,fromtheprioryear.Whenadjustingforthenet$76
millionofSignificantItemsdiscussedintheattachedSECForm10-K,noninterestexpenseincreased$48

million,or3%.Wecontinuedtoinvestinthefranchisetoplan,build,anddeliverdifferentiatedproductsand

services.Professionalservicesincreasedduetooutsideconsultantexpensesrelatedtotherefreshofourfive-year

strategicplanandlegalservices.Outsidedataprocessingandotherservicesincreased,primarilyreflectinghigher

debitandcreditcardprocessingcostsandincreasedothertechnologyinvestmentexpense,aswecontinueto

investintechnologysupportingourproducts,services,andourContinuousImprovementinitiatives.
Weremaindiligentwithrespecttomaintainingouraggregatemoderate-to-lowriskprofile.Wecontinueto
investinourriskandcreditinfrastructure.Creditqualitycontinuedtoimprovewithnonaccrualloans,

nonperformingassets,andnetcharge-offsalldecreasingfromtheprioryearlevels.However,criticizedand

classifiedloansdidincrease.Netcharge-offs,at0.27%ofaverageloansandleases,werebelowourlong-term

expectedrangeof0.35%to0.55%.
Forthepreviousfiveyears,wediligentlyrebuiltourcapitallevelsinexcessofallcapitaladequacy
requirements.TheBoardandmanagementnowbelievethatHuntington’scapitalisatalevelabovewhatis

requiredtooperateday-to-dayandrobustenoughtoweatherfuturestressedenvironments.Thisbeliefisbasedon

theimplementationofcontrolsandriskmanagementprocessesrelatedtoouraggregatemoderate-to-lowrisk

profile,theadvancedmodelingdevelopedaspartofourannualstresstestingprocess,andthesignificant

remixingoftheloanportfoliothathasoccurredoverthelastseveralyears.Withthatasthestartingpoint,we

allowedourcapitaltomodestlydecreaseoverthelastyearaswedrovedouble-digitbalancesheetgrowth,

increasedthedividend,increasedsharerepurchaseactivity,andcompletedtwoacquisitions.Tangiblecommon

equitytotangibleassetsratioendedtheyearat8.17%,down65basispointsfromayearago,andTier1common

risk-basedcapitalratiowas10.23%,downfrom10.90%attheendof2013.
ThefulldetailofourfinancialperformancecanbefoundorisoutlinedintheManagementDiscussionand
AnalysissectionfoundlaterintheattachedSECForm10-K.Pleasetaketheopportunitytoreadthis.Itprovides

additionalinsightandcommentaryrelatedtoour2014financialperformance.
Turningto2015expectations,althoughweagainexpecttofacechallengesfrominterestratesandthe
regulatoryenvironment,webelievethatwithoursuccessfulstrategies,focusedexecution,andbusinessmodelwe

willcontinuetoovercomethesechallengesanddeliversolidperformance.
2015willbeayearfocusedaroundsalesexecution,enhancingourdigitalplatform,anddrivingdeep
relationshipswithourgrowingcustomerbase.Webuiltourplanwithanassumptionofnochangeininterest

ratesandwiththeflexibilitytoquicklyadjusttoanevolvingoperatingenvironment,ifnecessary.Weremain

committedtoinvestinginthebusiness,disciplinedexpensecontrol,anddeliveringfull-yearpositiveoperating

leveragethroughgrowingrevenuefasterthanourexpected2%-4%noninterestexpensegrowth.Overall,asset

qualitymetricsareexpectedtoremainnearcurrentlevels,althoughmoderatequarterlyvolatilityalsoisexpected

giventheabsolutelowlevelofproblemassetsandcreditcosts.Weanticipatenetcharge-offswillremainwithin

orbelowourlong-termnormalizedrangeof35to55basispoints.
Wearecommittedtodeliveringlong-termvaluetoourshareholdersandmeetingthelasttwolong-term
goalsofanefficiencyratioof56%-59%andreturnontangiblecommonequityof13%-15%.AtHuntington,we

believethat“doingtherightthing”forourshareholders,colleagues,customers,andcommunitiesisthepathto

developingarobustfranchisethatcanproducethestablereturnsneededtocreatelong-termvalue.
2TheBoardofDirectorshasbeeninstrumentalindevelopingthisbalance,aswellascontinuingtochallenge
howwemaintainitinthisenvironment.Ithankthemfortheirtremendousdedicationandcounsel.TwoDirectors

whoIwouldliketosingleoutareDonCastoandEddieMunson.Eddie,aCPAandformerlywithKPMG,joined

theBoardmidwaythrough2014aftertheBoardcompleteditsregularskillsassessmentandsoughthimoutfor

hisexpertiseanddeepunderstandingofthebankingindustry.IespeciallythankDonforhis30yearsofexcellent

service.HehasbeenavaluedmemberoftheBoardsince1985andservedonnearlyeverycommitteeduringhis

tenure,mostrecentlyservingastheChairofourExecutiveCommittee.Heisretiringthisyear,andIwantto

thankhimforhismanyyearsofdedicationandadvicetoHuntington,aswellashispersonalcommitmenttothe

developmentofourColumbuscommunity.
InadditiontothepersonalprideIhaveforwhattheHuntingtonteamhasaccomplishedoverthelastseveral
yearsforourshareholders,Iamespeciallyproudofourcolleaguesfortheirdeepcommitmenttoour

communitiesandtheirownpersonalwellness.Pelotonia,theannualbiketourthatraisesfundsforTheJames

CancerHospitalandSoloveResearchInstitute,continuestobearallyingpointforHuntington’scolleaguesand

ourcommunities.Sincetheinauguraleventin2009,Huntingtoncolleagueshaveraised$12milliontowards

curingcancer,andin2014,morethan2,700ofourapproximately12,000colleaguesrodein,contributedto,or

volunteeredfortheevent.
Colleaguesarealignedwithourshareholdersandweenter2015withoptimismandconfidenceinourfuture.
Wewillexecuteourplan,deliveringourgoalswithurgencyandfocus.Weareconfidentinourstrategiesand

resolvetocontinuetodeliveronourlong-termgoals.Wethankyou—ourshareholders,customers,friends,and

colleagues—foryourcontinuedsupport.
StephenD.Steinour

Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer

March9,2015
3COMMONSTOCKANDDIVIDENDINFORMATION
2015DIVIDENDPAYABLEDATES
QUARTERPAYABLEDATE
1stApril1,2015
2ndJuly1,2015*

3rdOctober1,2015*

4thJanuary4,2016*
*SubjecttoactionbyBoardofDirectors
2014CASHDIVIDENDDECLAREDDATA
QUARTERRECORDDATEPAYABLEDATE
PERCOMMON
SHAREAMOUNT
1stMarch18,2014April1,2014$0.05
2ndJune17,2014July1,20140.05

3rdSeptember17,2014October1,20140.05

4thDecember19,2014January2,20150.06
COMMONSTOCKPRICE
201420132012201120102009
High$10.74$9.73$7.25$7.70$7.40$8.00

Low8.666.485.494.463.651.00

Close10.529.656.395.496.873.65
20-YEARDIVIDENDHISTORY
CASHDIVIDENDSDECLARED(1)STOCKDIVIDENDS/SPLITSDISTRIBUTIONDATEOFSTOCK
DIVIDEND/SPLIT1995$0.485%StockDividend07/31/95
19960.5210%StockDividend07/31/96

19970.5710%StockDividend07/31/97

19980.6310%StockDividend07/31/98

19990.6910%StockDividend07/30/99

20000.7610%StockDividend07/31/00

20010.72——

20020.64——

20030.67——

20040.75——
CASHDIVIDENDSDECLARED(1)STOCKDIVIDENDS/SPLITSDISTRIBUTIONDATEOFSTOCK
DIVIDEND/SPLIT2005$0.85——
20061.00——

20071.06——

20080.66——

20090.04——

20100.04——

20110.10——

20120.16——

20130.19——

20140.21——
(1)Restatedforstockdividendsandstocksplitsasapplicable.
FORWARD-LOOKINGSTATEMENTDISCLOSURE
Thisreport,includingthelettertoshareholders,containscertainforward-lookingstatements,includingcertain
plans,expectations,goals,projections,andstatements,whicharesubjecttonumerousassumptions,risks,and

uncertainties.Statementsthatdonotdescribehistoricalorcurrentfacts,includingstatementsaboutbeliefsand

expectations,areforward-lookingstatements.Theforward-lookingstatementsareintendedtobesubjecttothe

safeharborprovidedbySection27AoftheSecuritiesActof1933,Section21EoftheSecuritiesExchangeAct

of1934,andthePrivateSecuritiesLitigationReformActof1995.Actualresultscoulddiffermateriallyfrom

thosecontainedorimpliedbysuchstatementsforavarietyoffactors.PleaserefertoItem1A“RiskFactors”and

the“AdditionalDisclosure”sectionsinHuntington’sForm10-KfortheyearendingDecember31,2014,for

additionalinformation.Allforward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandarebasedon

informationavailableatthattime.Weassumenoobligationtoupdateforward-lookingstatements.Asforward-

lookingstatementsinvolvesignificantrisksanduncertainties,cautionshouldbeexercisedagainstplacingundue

relianceonsuchstatements.
 1 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
 FORM 10-K   (Mark One) 
[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 
 or 
    [
   
] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 Commission File Number 
1-34073
  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
Maryland 31-0724920 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 41 S. High Street, Columbus, Ohio 43287 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(614) 480-8300 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   
 Title of class         Name of exchange on which registered 
8.50% Series A non-voting, perpetual convertible preferred stock     NASDAQ 
 Common Stock - Par Value $0.01 per Share        NASDAQ 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
Title of class 
Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
 Depositary Shares (each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred 
Stock)  
   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Exchange Ac
t.  [X] Yes   [   ] No 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  [   ] Ye
s   [X] No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Sec
urities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such r
eports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   [X] Yes   [   ] No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
 Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) dur
ing the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   [X] Yes   [ 
  ] No 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and 
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by referenc
e in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   [ X ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or 
a smaller 
reporting company. See definition of ﬁlarge accelerated filerﬂ, ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ, and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12
b-2 of 
the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
  Large accelerated filer [X]       Accelerated filer [   ] 

  2  Non-accelerated filer [   ]  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  Smaller reporting company [   ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act) [   ] Yes   [X] No 
  The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2014
, determined by using a per share closing price of $9.54, as quoted
 by NASDAQ on that date, wa
s $7,626,169,305.  As of January 31
, 2015, there were 810,025,677 shares of common 
stock with a par value of $0.01 outstanding. 
 Documents Incorporated By Reference 
   Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for 
the 2015 Annual Shareholders' Meeting. 
 3 HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED 
INDEX 
Part I.   
 Item 1. Business 
6 Item 1A. Risk Factors 
16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
22 Item 2. Pro
perties 23 Item 3. Le
gal Proceedin
gs 23 Item 4.   Mine Safet
y Disclosures 23Part II.  Item 5. 
Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
23 Item 6.   Selected Financial Data 
25 Item 7. Mana
gement™s Discussion and Anal
ysis of Financial Condition and Results of O
perations 27
  Introduction 
27  Executive Overview 
27  Discussion of Results of Operations 
31  Risk Management and Capital: 
  Credit Risk 
42  Market Risk 
57  Liquidity Risk 
59  Operational Risk 
65  Compliance Risk 
66  Capital 
66  Business Se
gment Discussion 
69  Additional Disclosures 
91 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 96
 Item 8. Financial Statements and Su
pplementar
y Data96
 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 193
 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
193
 Item 9B. Other Information 
194
Part III. 
 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 194
 Item 11. Executive Compensation 
194
 Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 194
 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
194
Part IV.  Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 195
 Signatures 196
   
 4 Glossary of Acronyms and Terms 
 The following listing provides a comprehe
nsive reference of common acronyms an
d terms used throughout the document: 
 ABL 
 Asset Based Lending 
ACL 
 Allowance for Credit Losses 
AFCRE  Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
AFS 
 Available-for-Sale 
ALCO 
 Asset-Liability Management Committee 
ALLL 
 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
ARM  Adjustable Rate Mortgage ASC  Accounting Standards Codification 
ASU 
 Accounting Standards Update 
ATM 
 Automated Teller Machine 
AULC 
 Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments 
Basel III  Refers to the final rule issued by the FRB and OCC and published in the Federal Register on October 11, 2013 
BHC  Bank Holding Companies 
C&I 
 Commercial and Industrial 
Camco Financial 
 Camco Financial Corp. 
CCAR  Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
CDO  Collateralized Debt Obligations 
CDs  Certificate of Deposit CFPB  Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
CFTC  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
CMO  Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 
CRE  Commercial Real Estate 
Dodd-Frank Act  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
EFT 
 Electronic Fund Transfer EPS 
 Earnings Per Share EVE 
 Economic Value of Equity 
Fannie Mae  (see FNMA) 
FDIC 
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA 
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 
FHA 
 Federal Housing Administration 
FHLB 
 Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC 
 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO 
 Fair Isaac Corporation 
FNMA 
 Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB  Federal Reserve Bank 
Freddie Mac  (see FHLMC) 
FTE 
 Fully-Taxable Equivalent FTP 
 Funds Transfer Pricing GAAP 
 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America 
HAMP 
 Home Affordable Modification Program 
HARP 
 Home Affordable Refinance Program 
HIP 
 Huntington Investment and Tax Savings Plan 
HQLA 
 High-Quality Liquid Assets  
HTM 
 Held-to-Maturity 
 5 IRS  Internal Revenue Service 
LCR  Liquidity Coverage Ratio LIBOR 
 London Interbank Offered Rate 
LGD 
 Loss-Given-Default LIHTC 
 Low Income Housing Tax Credit  
LTV 
 Loan to Value 
NAICS 
 North American Industry Classification System  
MD&A 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
MSA 
 Metropolitan Statistical Area 
MSR 
 Mortgage Servicing Rights 
NALs 
 Nonaccrual Loans 
NCO  Net Charge-off NIM 
 Net interest margin 
NPAs 
 Nonperforming Assets 
N.R.  
Not relevant. Denominator of calculation is a gain in the current period compared with a loss in the prior period, or vice-versa
 OCC  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
OCI  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
OCR  Optimal Customer Relationship   
OLEM 
 Other Loans Especially Mentioned 
OREO 
 Other Real Estate Owned 
OTTI 
 Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PD  Probability-Of-Default 
Plan  Huntington Bancshares Retirement Plan 
Problem Loans  
Includes nonaccrual loans and leases (Table 13), accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more (Table 14), troubled debt 
restructured loans (Table 15), and criticized commercial loans (credit quality indicators section of Footnote 3). 
RBHPCG  Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group 
REIT  Real Estate Investment Trust 
ROC  Risk Oversight Committee 
SAD 
 Special Assets Division 
SBA  Small Business Administration 
SEC 
 Securities and Exchange Commission 
SERP 
 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 
SRIP 
 Supplemental Retirement Income Plan 
SSFA 
 Simplified Supervisory Formula Approach 
TCE 
 Tangible Common Equity 
TDR 
 Troubled Debt Restructured loan 
U.S. Treasury 
 U.S. Department of the Treasury 
UCS  Uniform Classification System 
UDAP 
 Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices  
UPB  Unpaid Principal Balance 
USDA 
 U.S. Department of Agriculture 
VA 
 U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs 
VIE 
 Variable Interest Entity 
 6 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
PART I 
When we refer to ﬁweﬂ, ﬁourﬂ, and ﬁusﬂ in this report, we mean Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and our consolidated 
subsidiaries, unless the context indicates that we refer only to the parent company, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.  When 
we refer to the ﬁBankﬂ in this report, we mean our only bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank, and its subsidiaries. 
 Item 1: Business  We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in 
Columbus, Ohio.  We have 11,873 average full-time equivalent employees.  Through the Bank, we have 149 years of serving the 
financial needs of our customers.  We provide full-service commercial, small business, consumer, and mortgage banking services,
 as 
well as automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance programs,
 and other financial products and services.  The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2014, the Ban
k had 
14 private client group offices and 715 branches as follows: 
Ł 404 branches in Ohio  Ł 43 branches in Indiana 
Ł 179 branches in Michigan  Ł 31 branches in West Virginia 
Ł 48 branches in Pennsylvania   Ł 10 branches in Kentucky 
Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states.  International banking services are 
available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio, a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands, and anothe
r located in Hong Kong.  Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant.   
 Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and 
assess performance.  For each of our five business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional se
rvice 
to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue and earnings growth.  Our business model emphasizes the delivery of a 

complete set of banking products and services offered by larger banks, but distinguished by local delivery and customer service
.   
 A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to operate in cooperation to provide products and services to our 
customers and to build stronger and more 
profitable relationships using our OCR sales 
and service process.  The objectives of O
CR are to: 
 1. Provide a consultative sales approach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer. 
2. Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers. 
3. Target prospects who may want to have multiple products and services as part of their relationship with us. 
Following is a description of our five business segments and Treasury / Other function: 
 Retail and Business Banking Œ The Retail and Business Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products 
and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, 

money market accounts, certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business loans. Other financial services 
available to consumer and small business customers include investments, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign 
exchange hedging, and treasury management. Huntington serves 
customers primarily through 
our network of branches in 
Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, an
d Kentucky. In addition to our
 extensive branch network, 
customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking, and ATMs. 
Huntington has established a ﬁFair Playﬂ banking philosophy and built a reputation for meeting the banking needs of 
consumers in a manner which makes them feel supported and appreciated. Huntington believes customers are 
recognizing this and other efforts as key differentiators, and it has earned us more customers, deeper relationships and 

the J.D. Power retail service excellence award for 2013 and 2014. 
   7  Business Banking is a dynamic and growing part of our business, and we are committed to being the bank of choice 
for small businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with annual revenues under $20 

million and we currently serve approximately 160,000 businesse
s.   Huntington continues to develop products and 
services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of small business. Huntington continues to look for ways to help 
companies find solutions to their capital needs and is the number one SBA lender in the country.  We have also won the 
J.D. Power award for small business 
service excellence in 2
012 and 2014.   
  Commercial Banking: 
Through a relationship banking model, this segment provides a wide array of products and 
services to the middle market, large corporate, and government public sector customers located primarily within our 
geographic footprint.  The segment is divided into seven business units:  middle market, large corporate, specialty 
banking, asset finance, capital markets, treasury management, and insurance.  During the 2014 third quarter, we moved 
our insurance brokerage business from Treasury / Other to Commercial Banking to align with a change in management 
responsibilities.  During the 2014 fourth quarter, we moved the Asset Based Lending group back into the commercial 

division and combined management with equipment finance and public capital to form the Asset Finance division.
  Middle Market Banking primarily focuses on providing banking
 solutions to companies 
with annual revenues of $20 
million to $250 million. Through a relatio
nship management approac
h, various products, cap
abilities and solutions are seamlessly orchestrated in a client centric way. 
 
Corporate Banking works with larger, often more complex, companies with annual revenues greater than $250 
million.  These entities, many of which are publically traded, require a different and customized approach to their 
banking needs.  
 Specialty Banking offers tailored products and services to select industries that have a foothold in the Midwest.  
Each banking team is comprised of industry experts with a dynamic understanding of the market and industry.  Many of 

these industries are experiencing tremendous change, which creates opportunities for Huntington to leverage our 
expertise and help clients navigate, adapt and succeed.   
 
Asset Finance is a combination of our Equipment Finance, Public Capital, Asset Based Lending, and Lender 
Finance divisions that focus on providing financing solutions against these respective asset classes. 
 Capital Markets has two distinct product capabilities: corporate risk management services and institutional sales, 
trading and underwriting. The Capital Markets Group offers a full suite of risk management tools including 

commodities, foreign exchange and interest rate hedging services. The Institutional Sales, Trading & Underwriting team 
provides access to capital and investment solutions for both municipal and corporate institutions. 
 
Treasury Management teams help businesses manage their working capital programs and reduce expenses.  Our 
liquidity solutions help customers save and invest wisely, while our payables and receivables capabilities help them 
manage purchases and the receipt of payments for goods and services.  All of this is provided while helping customers 

take a sophisticated approach to managing their overhead, inventory, equipment and labor.   
 Insurance brokerage business specializes in commercial property and casualty, employee benefits, personal lines, 
life and disability and specialty lines of insurance. We also provide brokerage and agency services for residential and 
commercial title insurance and excess and su
rplus product lines of ins
urance. As an agent and 
broker, we do not assume 
underwriting risks; instead, we provide our customers with quality, noninvestment insurance contracts. 
 Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate:
 This segment provides lending 
and other banking products and 
services to customers outside of our traditional retail and commercial banking segments. Our products and services 
include providing financing for the purchase of vehicles by customers at franchised  automotive dealerships, financing 

the acquisition of new and used vehicle inventory of franchised automotive dealerships, and financing for land, 
buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or constructed by real estate developers, automobile dealerships, or 
other customers with real estate project financing needs. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized 
relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-defined relationship plans which identify 
needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained. 
   8 The Automotive Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles 
through these franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services 
throughout the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong 

dealerships has allowed us to expand into selected markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships 
while building a strong reputation.  
The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with borrowing needs 
that are secured by commercial properties.  Most of these customers are located within our footprint. 
 Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group: 
RBHPCG business segment was created as the result 
of an organizational and management realignment that occurred in January 2014.  Regional Banking and The Huntington 

Private Client Group is well positioned competitively as we have closely aligned with our eleven regional banking 
markets.  A fundamental point of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - 
building connections with community and business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by 
colleagues working within those markets. 
The Huntington Private Client Group is organized into units consisting of The Huntington Private Bank, The 
Huntington Trust, The Huntington In
vestment Company, Huntington Commun
ity Development, Huntington Asset 
Advisors, and Huntington Asset Services.  Our private banking, trust, investment and community development functions 
focus their efforts in our Midwest foo
tprint and Florida, while our proprietary fund
s and ETFs, fund administration, 
custody and settlements functions target a national client base.  
The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized 
lending options) and other banking services.   
The Huntington Trust also serves high net-worth customers and delivers wealth management and legacy planning 
through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, trust services and trust operations.  This group 
also provides retirement plan services and corporate trust to businesses and municipalities. 
The Huntington Investment Company, a dually registered broker-dealer and registered investment advisor, employs 
representatives who work with our Retail and Private Bank to provide investment solutions for our customers.  This team 
offers a wide range of products and services, including brokerage, annuities, advisory and other investment products.  
Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents 
of low-to moderate-income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support 
affordable housing and neighborhood stabilization.  
Huntington Asset Advisors provides investment management
 services solely advising The Huntington Funds, our 
proprietary family of mutual funds, and Huntington Strategy Shares, our Exchange Trade Funds. 
Huntington Asset Services has a national clientele and offers
 administrative and oper
ational support to fund 
complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, administration, custody, and distribution services.  This group 
also includes National Settlements, which works with law firms and the court system to provide custody and settlement 

distribution services.  Home Lending: 
Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally 
located in our primary banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are primarily distributed through the 
Retail and Business Banking segment, as well as through commissi
oned loan originators.  Home Lending earns interest 
on loans held in the warehouse and portfolio, earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and 
recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans.  Home Lending supports the origination and servicing of 

mortgage loans across all segments.   
The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. 
The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A.     
   9 Competition 
We compete with other banks and financial services companies such as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust 
companies, as well as mortgage banking companies, automobile and equipment financing companies (including captive automobile 
finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment 
advisors, and brokerage firms, 
both within a
nd outside of our
 primary market areas.  Internet companies are also providing 
nontraditional, but increasingly 
strong, competition for our borro
wers, 
depositors, and other customers.   
We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of value and service by building customer relationships as a resul
t of addressing our customers™ entire suite of banking needs, demonstrating expertise, and providing convenience to our customers
.  We 
also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets. 
We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combination of value and service and by providing convenience through a 
banking network of branches and ATMs within our markets and our website at www.huntington.com.  We have also instituted 

customer friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace
® account feature, which gives customers an additional business day to cover 
overdrafts to their consumer account without being charged overdraft fees.  
The table below shows our competitive ranking and market share based on deposits of FDIC-insured institutions as of June 30, 
2014, in the top 10 metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) in which we compete: 
 MSA Rank 
Deposits (in 
millions) Market Share 
Columbus, OH 1 $14,879  28% 
Cleveland, OH 5 4,782 8 

Detroit, MI 6 4,753 5 

Indianapolis, IN 4 2,852 7 

Pittsburgh, PA 8 2,487 3 

Cincinnati, OH 4 2,274 3 

Toledo, OH 2 2,238 23 

Grand Rapids, MI 2 2,111 12 

Youngstown, OH 1 2,017 23 

Canton, OH 1 1,610 26 
 
Source: FDIC.gov
, based on June 30, 2014 survey. 
Many of our nonfinancial institution competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, broader geographic service areas, greater 
capital, and, in some cases, lower cost structures.  In addition, competition for quality customers has intensified as a result
 of changes in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolidation among financial service providers, bank failu
res, and the conversion of certain former investment banks to bank holding companies. 
Regulatory Matters  
We are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the CFPB, and other federal and state regulators. 
Because we are a public company, we are subject to regulation by the SEC.  The SEC has established five categories of issuers f
or 
the purpose of filing periodic and annual reports.  Under these regulations, we are considered to be a large accelerated filer 
and, as such, must comply with SEC accelerated reporting requirements.  
We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial holding company with the Federal Reserve.  We are subject to 
examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act. We are required to file reports an
d other information regarding our business operations and the business operations of our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve. 
   10 
The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating system that emphasizes risk management, introduces a framework 
for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a framework for assessing and rating the potential impact of non-depos
itory entities of a holding company on its subsidiary depository institution(s).  The ratings assigned to us, like those assigned to 
other 
financial institutions, are confidential and may not be disclosed, ex
cept to the extent required by law. 
The Federal Reserve utilizes an updated framework for the consolidated supervision of large financial institutions, including b
ank 
holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.  The objectives of the framework are to enhance the resilien
ce of a 
firm, lower the probability of its failure, and reduce the impact on the financial system in the event of an institution™s fail
ure. With regard to resiliency, each firm is expected to ensure that the consolidated organization and its core business lines can surviv
e under a 
broad range of internal or external stresses.  This requires financial resilience by maintaining sufficient capital and liquidi
ty, and operational resilience by maintaining effective corporate governance, risk management, and recovery planning. With respect to 
lowering the probability of failure, each firm is expected to ensure the sustainability of its critical operations and banking 
offices under a broad range of internal or external stresses.  This requires, among other things, that we have robust, forward-looking capita
l-planning processes that account for our unique risks.  
The Bank, which is chartered by the OCC, is a national bank and our only bank subsidiary.  It is subject to examination and 
supervision by the OCC and also by the CFPB, which was established by
 the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010.  Our nonbank subsidiaries are
 also subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve or, in the case of nonbank subsidiaries of the Bank, by the 
OCC.  All subsidiaries are subject to examination and supervision by the CFPB to the extent they offer any consumer financial product
s or services.  Our subsidiaries are subject to examination by other federal and state agencies, including, in the case of certain s
ecurities and investment management activities, regulation by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.   
In September 2014, the OCC published 
final guidelines to strengthen the governance and risk management practices of large financial 
institutions
, including the Bank.  The guidelines became effective November 10, 2014, and require covered banks to establish and 
adhere to a written governance framework in order to manage and control their risk-taking activities.  In addition, the guideli
nes 
provide standards for the institutions™ boards of directors to oversee the risk governance framework
. Given its size and the phased 
implementation schedule, the Bank is subject to these heightened standards effective May 2016.  As discussed in Item 1A: Risk 
Factors, the Bank currently has a written governance framework and associated controls. 
Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have significant impacts throughout the financial services industry.   
The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, is complex and broad in scope and several of its provisions are still being implemented.  
The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has extensive regulatory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products
 and services, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which has oversight authority for monitoring and regulating system
ic risk.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the authority and duties of the federal banking and securities regulatory agencies, 
implemented certain corporate governance requirements for all public companies including financial institutions with regard to 
executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders, and certain whistleblower provisions, and restricted certain proprietary 
trading, and hedge fund and private equity activities of banks and their affiliates.  The Dodd-Frank Act also required the issu
ance of 
numerous implementing regulations, many of which have not yet been issued.  The regulations will continue to take effect over 

several more years, continuing to make it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our customers, or the financial ind
ustry in 
general.   
In January 2014, seven final regulations issued by the CFPB, including the ability to repay and qualified mortgage standards, 
various mortgage servicing rules, a rule expanding the scope of the high-cost mortgage provision in the Truth in Lending Act, l
oan 
originator compensation requirements and appraisal rules, became effective and were successfully implemented by Huntington.  On
 November 20, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rule on integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth in Lending Act and the Rea
l Estate Settlement Procedures Act, for which compliance is required by August 1, 2015. The CFPB finalized amendments to the 
integrated mortgage disclosures on January 20, 2015, which are also
 effective on August 1, 2015.  On October 22, 2014, the CFPB
 finalized minor Amendments to the 2013 Mortgage Rules under the Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z), making certain nonprofits 

exempt from some servicing rules and the ability to repay rule, and allowing a cure period for points and fees in Qualified 
Mortgages.  These changes were effective as of November 3, 2014.  In addition, the CFPB proposed changes to its servicing rules
.  We continue to monitor, evaluate and implement these new regulations. 
Throughout 2014, the CFPB has continued its focus on fair lending
 practices of indirect automobile lenders. This focus has led 
to 
some lenders acknowledging that the CFPB and Department of Justice are considering taking public enforcement actions against th
em 
for their fair lending practices. Indirect automobile lenders have also received continuing pressure from the CFPB to limit or 
eliminate 
discretionary pricing by dealers. Finally, the CFPB has proposed its larger participant rule for indirect automobile lending wh
ich will bring larger non-bank indirect automobile lenders under CFPB supervision. 
   11 
Banking regulatory agencies have increasingly over the last few years used their authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade
 Commission Act to take supervisory or enforcement action with resp
ect to UDAP by banks under standards developed many years 
ago by the Federal Trade Commission in order to address practices that may not necessarily fall within the scope of a specific 
banking 
or consumer finance law.  The Dodd-Frank Act also gave to the CFPB similar authority to take action in connection with unfair, 
deceptive or abusive acts or practices by entities subject to CFPB supervisory or enforcement authority.   
 Large bank holding companies and national banks are required to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve and OCC, 
respectively, and conduct stress tests. 
 The Federal Reserve™s Regulation Y requires large bank holding companies to submit capital plans to the Federal Reserve on an 
annual basis and to require such bank holding companies to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve under certain circumstances
 before making a capital distribution.  This rule applies to us and all other bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of
 total 
consolidated assets.   
 A large bank holding company™s capital plan must include an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over at leas
t the next nine quarters, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a detailed description of the e
ntity™s process for assessing capital adequacy, the entity™s capital policy, and a discussion of any expected changes to the bank holdi
ng 
company™s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the firm™s capital adequacy or liquidity.  The planning ho
rizon for 
the most recent capital planning and stress testing cycle encompasses the 2014 fourth quarter through the 2016 fourth quarter a
s was submitted in our capital plan in January 2015.  Rules to implement the Basel III capital reforms in the United States were fina
lized in 
July 2013 and will be phased-in by us beginning with 1Q 2015 results under the standardized approach.  As such, the most recent
 CCAR cycle, which began October 1, 2014, overlaps with the implementation of the Basel III capital reforms based on the require
d nine quarter projection horizon.  In accordance with stress test rules, we incorporated the revised capital framework into the 
capital planning projections and into the stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Capital adequacy at large banking organizati
ons, 
including us, is assessed against a minimum 4.5 percent tier 1 common ratio and a 5 percent tier 1 leverage ratio as determined
 by the 
Federal Reserve.   
 
Capital plans for 2015 were required to be submitted by January 5, 2015.  The Federal Reserve will either object to a capital p
lan, in whole or in part, or provide a notice of 
non-objection no later than March 31, 2015, fo
r plans submitted by the January 5, 2
015, submission date.  If the Federal Reserve objects to a capital plan, the bank holding company may not make any capital distribut
ions 
other than those with respect to which the Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection. While we can give no assurances as 
to the 
outcome or specific interactions with the regulators, based on the capital plan we submitted on January 5, 2015, we believe we 
have a 
strong capital position and that our capital adequacy process is robust.   
 In addition to the CCAR submission, section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires that national banks, like The Huntington 
National Bank, conduct annual stress tests for submission in January 2015.  The results of the stress tests will provide the OC
C with forward-looking information that will be used in bank supervision and will assist the agency in assessing a company™s risk prof
ile and 
capital adequacy.  We submitted our stress test results to the OCC on January 5, 2015.   
 The regulatory capital rules indicate that common stockholders™ equity should be the dominant element within Tier 1 capital and
 that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-comm
on equity elements.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the ratio of 
common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in Tier 1
 capital and an indication of the quality of capital.   
 Conforming Covered Activities to implement the Volcker Rule. 
 On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the 
Volcker Rule contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, and established July 21, 2015, as the end of the conformance perio
d.  Section 619 generally prohibits insured depository institutions and any company affiliated with an insured depository instituti
on from 
engaging in proprietary trading and from acquiring or retaining ownership interests in, sponsoring, or having certain relations
hips with 
a hedge fund or private equity fund. These prohibitions are subject to a number of statutory exemptions, restrictions, and defi
nitions. On December 18, 2014, The Federal Reserve Board announced it acted under Section 619 to give banking entities until July 21, 20
16, 
to conform investments in and relationships with covered funds and foreign funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013 
("legacy covered funds"). The Board also announced its intention to act next year to grant banking entities an additional one-y
ear extension of the conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform ownership interests in and relationships with legacy covere
d funds. The Bank continues its ﬁgood faithﬂ efforts to conform with proprietary trading prohibitions and associated compliance 
requirements.  The company does not expect Volcker compliance to have a material impact on its business model. 
    12 
The Volcker Rule prohibits an insured depository institution and any company that controls an insured depository institution 
(such as a bank holding company), and any of their subsidiaries and affiliates (referred to as ﬁbanking entitiesﬂ) from: (i) en
gaging in 
ﬁproprietary tradingﬂ and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (ﬁcovered fundsﬂ) subject to certain limited e
xceptions.  
These prohibitions impact the ability of U.S. banking entities to provide investment management products and services that are 
competitive with nonbanking firms generally and with non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The rule also effectiv
ely prohibits short-term trading strategies by any U.S. banking entity if those strategies involve instruments other than those spe
cifically permitted for trading.   
 The final Volcker Rule regulations do provide certain exemptions allowing banking entities to continue underwriting, market-
making and hedging activities and trading certain government obligations, as well as various exemptions and exclusions from the
 definition of ﬁcovered fundsﬂ.  The level of required compliance activity depends on the size of the banking entity and the ext
ent of its 
trading.  CEOs of larger banking entities, including Huntington, will have to attest annually in writing that their organizatio
n has in 
place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify compliance with the Volcker Rule regulations.  Banking
 entities with significant permitted trading operations will have to report certain quantitative information, beginning between 
June 30, 2014 and December 31, 2016, depending on the size of the banking entity™s trading assets and liabilities.   
 On January 14, 2014, the five federal agencies approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in
 certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust preferred securities from the investment prohibitions of the 
Volcker 
Rule.  Under the interim final rule, the agencies permit the retention of an interest in or sponsorship of covered funds by ban
king 
entities if certain qualifications are met.  In addition, the agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the r
equirements of 
the interim final rule.  At December 31, 2014, we had investments in nine different pools of trust preferred securities.  Eight
 of our 
pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers.  We have analyzed the other pool that was not included on the list and
 believe 
that we will continue to be able to own this investment under the final Volcker Rule regulations.   
There are restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. 
Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary 
source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  
However, there are statutory limits on the amount of dividends that the Bank can pay to the holding company.  Regulatory approv
al is required prior to the declaration of any dividends in an amount greater than its undivided profits or if the total of all divid
ends declared 
in a calendar year would exceed the total of its net income for the year combined with its retained net income for the two prec
eding 
years, less any required transfers to surp
lus or common stock.  The Bank is currently
 able to pay dividend
s to the holding comp
any subject to these limitations.   
If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is about to engage i
n, an 
unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such pra
ctice. Depending on the financial condition of the Bank, the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to be engaged in an unsafe 
or 
unsound practice if the 
Bank were to pay dividends to the holding company.  
The Federal Reserve and the OCC have issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank holding companies 
should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings.  Additionally, the Federal Reserve may prohibit or limit
 bank holding companies from making capital distributions, including payment of preferred and common dividends, as part of the annual
 capital plan approval process.   
We are subject to the current capital requirements mandated by the Federal Reserve and final Basel III capital and liquidity 
frameworks.   
 The Federal Reserve sets risk-based capital ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. Under the guideline
s and related policies, bank holding companies must maintain capital sufficient to meet both a risk-based asset ratio test and a 
leverage 
ratio test on a consolidated basis. The risk-based ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet com
mitments 
into risk-weighted categories, with higher weighting assigned to categories perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-ba
sed ratio represents total capital divided by total risk-weighted assets. The leverage ratio is core capital divided by total assets adju
sted as 
specified in the guidelines. The Bank is subject to substantially similar capital requirements.   
    13 
On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve voted to adopt final capital rules implementing Basel III requirements for U.S. Banking 
organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and will implement in the United States the
 Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank A
ct. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizat
ions. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the final rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital 
(Tier 1 Common) to risk-weighted assets and a Tier 1 Common capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply
 to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and inc
ludes a 
minimum leverage ratio of 4% for all banking organizations.   These new minimum capital ratios were effective for us on January
 1, 
2015, and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019.   

 The following are the Basel III regulatory capital levels that we must satisfy to avoid limitations on capital distributions an
d discretionary bonus payments during the applicable transition period, from January 1, 2015, until January 1, 2019: 
  Basel III Regulatory Capital Levels 
 January 1, January 1, January 1, January 1, January 1, 
 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Tier 1 Common 4.5% 5.125% 5.75% 6.375% 7.0% 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 6.0% 6.625% 7.25% 7.875% 8.5% 
Total risk-based capital ratio 8.0%
 8.625% 9.25% 9.875% 10.5% 
 The final rule emphasizes Tier 1 Common capital, the most loss-absorbing form of capital, and implements strict eligibility 
criteria for regulatory capital instruments. The final rule also improves the methodology for calculating risk-weighted assets 
to enhance risk sensitivity. Banks and regulators use risk weighting to assign different levels of risk to different classes of as
sets.  We have evaluated the impact of the Basel III final rule on our regulatory capital ratios and estimate, on a fully phased-in ba
sis, a reduction of approximately 40 basis points to our Basel I tier I common risk-based capital ratio.  The estimate is based on 
management™s current interpretation, expectations, and understanding of the final U.S. Basel III rules.  We anticipate that our
 capital ratios, on a Basel III basis, will continue to exceed the well-capitalized minimum capital requirements.  We are evaluating opt
ions to mitigate the capital impact of the final rule prior to its effective implementation date.   
 Based on the final Basel III rule, banking organizations with more than $15 billion in total consolidated assets are required t
o phase-out of additional tier 1 capital any non-qualifying capital instruments (such as trust preferred securities and cumulativ
e preferred 
shares) issued before September 12, 2010.  We will begin the additional tier I capital phase-out of our trust preferred securit
ies in 2015, but will be able to include these instruments in Tier II capital as a non-advanced approaches institution.  
 Generally, under the currently applicable guidelines, a financial institution's capital is divided into two tiers. Institutions
 that must 
incorporate market risk exposure into their risk-based capital requirements may also have a third tier of capital in the form o
f restricted short-term subordinated debt. These tiers are: 
  Tier 1 risk-based capital, or core capital, which includes total equity plus qualifying capital securities and minority interes
ts subject to phase-out, excluding unrealized gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income, and nonqualifying 
intangible and servicing assets.   
  Tier 2 risk-based capital, or supplementary capital, which includes, among other things, cumulative and limited-life preferred 
stock, mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and the ACL, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.  
  Total risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 risk-based capital.  
 The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators require that all intangible assets (net of deferred tax), except 
originated or purchased MSRs, nonmortgage servicing assets, and purchased credit card relationships intangible assets, be deduc
ted 
from Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of these items included in capital cannot exceed 100% of its Tier 1 capital.   
 Under the general risk-based guidelines to remain adequately-capitalized, financial institutions are required to maintain a tot
al risk-based capital ratio of 8%, with 4% being Tier 1 risk-based capital.  The appropriate regulatory authority may set higher c
apital 
requirements when they believe an institution's circumstances warrant an increase.   
 Under the leverage guidelines, financial institutions are required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 3%. The mini
mum 
ratio is applicable only to financial institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including excellent asset quality, hig
h liquidity, low interest rate risk exposure, and the highest regulatory rating. Financial institutions not meeting these criteria are required 
to maintain a 
minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.   
  14 
Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the financial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies avai
lable to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulator
y authority 
of a directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  In addition, the financial instituti
on could be subject to the measures described below under Prompt Corrective Action as applicable to under-capitalized institutions.   
 The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the OCC, and the FDIC specify that evaluations by the banking agencies
 of a bank's capital adequacy will include an assessment of the exposure to declines in the economic value of a bank's capital d
ue to 
changes in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a joint policy statement on interest rate risk describing prudent meth
ods for monitoring such risk that rely principally on internal measures of exposure and active oversight of risk management activities 
by 
senior management.   
 FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory authorities to take Prompt Corrective Action with respect to depository institutions
 that do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well-capitalized, 
adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized, and critically under-capitalized.   

 Throughout 2014, our regulatory capital ratios and those of the Bank were in excess of the levels established for well-capitali
zed institutions.  An institution is deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to a regulatory order, ag
reement, or 
directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure.  
    
       
   
  At December 31, 2014 
   
Well-capitalized    Excess 
(dollar amounts in billions)  
minimums  Actual  Capital (1) 
        
  Ratios:      
 Tier 1 leverage ratio Consolidated 5.00% 9.74% $ 3.0 
  Bank 5.00 9.56  2.9 
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio Consolidated 6.00 11.50  3.0 
  Bank 6.00 11.28  2.9 
 Total risk-based capital ratio Consolidated 10.00 13.56  1.9 
  Bank 10.00 12.79  1.5 
    
   (1) Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage.  
 FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including payment of a cash dividend 
or 
paying any management fee to its holding company, if the depository institution would become under-capitalized after such payme
nt.  Under-capitalized institutions are also subject to growth limitations and are required by the appropriate federal banking agenc
y to 
submit a capital restoration plan. If any depository institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a capita
l restoration plan, the holding company would be required to provide a limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a 
condition of approval of such plan.  

 Depending upon the severity of the under capitalization, the under-capitalized institutions may be subject to a number of 
requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately-capitalized, requirements 
to reduce total assets, cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on making any payment of principal or
 interest on their subordinated debt.  Critically under-capitalized institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator 
within 90 days of becoming so classified.  
 Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits an
d offering interest rates on deposits higher than the prevailing rate in its market. Since the Bank is well-capitalized, the FDIC
IA 
brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits.  The Bank had $2.2 billion of such brok
ered 
deposits at December 31, 2014.   
 On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved a final rule to implement a minimum liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 
requirement for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, and a less stringent modified LCR
 requirement to depository institution holding companies below the threshold but with total consolidated assets of $50 billion o
r more. 
The LCR requires covered banking organizations to maintain HQLA equal to projected stressed cash outflows over a 30 calendar-da
y stress scenario.  We are covered by the modified LCR requirement and therefore subject to the phase-in of the rule beginning Ja
nuary 
2016 at 90% and January 2017 at 100%.  We will also be required to calculate the LCR monthly.   
 15 
As a bank holding company, we must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to the Bank. 
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its 
subsidiary banks and must commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. The Federal Reserve may require a bank holding
 company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank. It may charge the bank holding company with engaging in uns
afe 
and unsound practices if the bank holding company fails to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actio
ns that 
the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the bank holding company™s ability to commit resources to such subsidiary bank.  
Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other 
indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy trustee will
 assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. 

Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over t
he 
claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations.  
Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro-rata assessment of shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become 
impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in such national bank™s capital stock. This statute also provides for
 the enforcement of any such pro-rata assessment of shareholders of such national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by 
sale, to the extent necessary, of the capital stock owned by any assessed shareholder failing to pay the assessment.  As the sole sha
reholder 
of the Bank, we are subject to such provisions.  
Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an insured depository institution for administrative expenses and the claims of holders o
f deposit liabilities of such an institution are accorded priority over the claims of general unsecured creditors of such an inst
itution, including the holders of the institution's note obligations, in the event of liquidation or other resolution of such institutio
n. Claims of a 
receiver for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insure
r of such 
holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or othe
r resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of the Bank.  
Bank transactions with affiliates. 
Federal banking law and regulation imposes qualitative standards and quantitative limitations upon certain transactions by a ba
nk 
with its affiliates, including the bank™s bank holding company and certain companies the bank holding company may be deemed to 
control for these purposes. Transactions covered by these provisions must be on arm™s-length terms, and cannot exceed certain 

amounts which are determined with reference to the bank™s regulatory capital. Moreover, if the transaction is a loan or other e
xtension 
of credit, it must be secured by collateral in an amount and quality expressly prescribed by statute, and if the affiliate is u
nable to 
pledge sufficient collateral, the bank holding company may be required to provide it. 
Provisions added by the Dodd-Frank Act expanded the scope of (i) the definition of affiliate to include any investment fund 
having any bank or BHC-affiliated company as an investment advisor, (ii) credit exposures subject to the prohibition on the 
acceptance of low-quality assets or securities issued by an affiliate as collateral, the quantitative limits, and the collatera
lization requirements to now include credit exposures arising out of derivative, repurchase agreement, and securities lending/borrowing 
transactions, and (iii) transactions subject to quantitative limits to now also include credit collateralized by affiliate-issu
ed debt 
obligations that are not securities. In addition, these provisions require that a credit extension to an affiliate remain secur
ed in 
accordance with the collateral requirements at all times that it is outstanding, rather than the previous requirement of only a
t the inception or upon material modification of the transaction. They also raise significantly the procedural and substantive hurdle
s required to obtain a regulatory exemption from the affiliate transaction requirements. While these provisions became effective 
on July 
21, 2012, the Federal Reserve has not yet issued a proposed rule to implement them. 
As a financial holding company, we are subject to additional laws and regulations. 
 In order to maintain its status as a financial holding company, a bank holding company's depository subsidiaries must all be bo
th well-capitalized and well-managed, and must meet their Community Reinvestment Act obligations.  

 Financial holding company powers relate to financial activities that are specified in the Bank Holding Company Act or 
determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be financial in nature, incidental to
 an 
activity that is financial in nature, or complementary to a financial activity, provided that the complementary activity does n
ot pose a 
safety and soundness risk.  In addition, we are required by the Bank Holding Company Act to obtain Federal Reserve approval pri
or 
to acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank, if, after such acquisition, we would o
wn or 
control more than 5% of its voting stock.  Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new provision to the Bank Holding Company 
Act, which requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50 billion to obtain prior 
approval 
from the Federal Reserve to acquire a nondepository company having total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more.
   16 
We also must comply with anti-money laundering and customer privacy regulations, as well as corporate governance, accounting, 
and reporting requirements.
 The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain ot
her financial institutions to have policies, procedures, and controls to detect, prevent, and report money laundering and terrorist
 financing.  
Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take 
into 
account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.  The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network 
has proposed a rule for those same entities, and, if adopted, the proposal will prescribe customer due diligence requirements, incl
uding a 
new regulatory mandate to identify the beneficial owners of legal entities which are customers.    
Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions, are required to: 
 provide notice to our customers regarding privacy policies and practices,  
 inform our customers regarding the conditions under which their nonpublic personal information may be disclosed to 
nonaffiliated third parties, and  
 give our customers an option to prevent certain disclosure of such information to nonaffiliated third parties.  
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us.  In 
addition to a requirement that chief executive officers and chief financial officers certify financial statements in writing, t
he statute imposed requirements affecting, among other matters, the composition and activities of audit committees, disclosures relating t
o corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reportin
g.  Available Information 
 This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 
20549.  You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC
 also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who 
file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is 
http://www.sec.gov
. The reports and other information filed by us with the SEC 
are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site is 
http://www.huntington.com
. Except as specifically incorporated by 
reference into this Annual Report on Form 
10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You also should be a
ble to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Market at 33 Whitehall 
Street, New York, New York.
  Item 1A: Risk Factors  Risk Governance 
 We use a multi-faceted approach to risk governance.  It begins with the board of directors defining our risk appetite as aggreg
ate moderate-to-low.  This does not preclude engagement in select higher risk activities.  Rather, the definition is intended to re
present an 
average of where we want our overall risk to be managed.   
 Three board committees primarily oversee implementation of this desired risk appetite and monitoring of our risk profile: The 
Audit Committee, Risk Oversight Committee, and the Technology Committee:   
  The Audit Committee is principally involved with overseeing the integrity of financial statements, providing oversight of 
the internal audit department, and selecting our external auditors.  Our chief auditor reports directly to the Audit 
Committee Chair.   
 The Risk Oversight Committee supervises our risk management processes which primarily cover credit, market, 
liquidity, operational, compliance, legal, strategic, and reputational risks.  It also approves the charters of executive risk 
management committees, sets risk limits on certain risk measures (e.g., economic value of equity), receives results of the 

risk self-assessment process, and routinely engages management in review of key risks.  Our credit review executive 
reports directly to the Risk Oversight Committee.   
 The Technology Committee provides oversigh
t of technology to meet defined standards for risk, security, and Company-
defined targets; and ensure that exposure to security and redundancy risks are defined and transparent and provides 
oversight of the Bank™s overall third party relationship risk management process.  
    17 
The Audit and Risk Oversight committees routinely hold executive sessions with our key officers engaged in accounting and risk 
management.  On a periodic basis, the two committees meet in joint session to cover matters relevant to both such as the constr
uct and 
appropriateness of the ACL, which is reviewed quarterly.  All directors have access to information provided to each committee a
nd all 
scheduled meetings are open to all directors.   
 Further, through its Compensation Committee, the board of directors seeks to ensure its system of rewards is risk-sensitive and
 aligns the interests of management, creditors, and shareholders.  We utilize a variety of compensation-related tools to induce 
appropriate behavior, including common stock ownership thresholds for the chief executive officer and certain members of senior
 management, a requirement to hold until retirement, or exit from the company, a portion of net shares received upon exercise of
 stock 
options or release of restricted stock awards (50% for executive officers and 25% for other award recipients), equity deferrals
, recoupment provisions, and the right to terminate compensation plans at any time.   
 Management has implemented an Enterprise Risk Management and Risk Appetite Framework.  Critically important is our self-
assessment process, in which each business segment produces an analysis of its risks and the strength of its risk controls.  Th
e segment 
analyses are combined with assessments by our risk management organization of major risk sectors (e.g., credit, market, liquidi
ty, operational, reputational, compliance, etc.) to produce an overall enterprise risk assessment.  Outcomes of the process include
 a determination of the quality of the overall control process, the direction of risk, and our position compared to the defined ri
sk appetite.  Management also utilizes a wide series of metrics (key risk indicators) to monitor risk positions throughout the Company.  In 
general, a range for each metric is established which allows the company, in aggregate, to operate within a moderate-to-low ris
k profile.  Deviations from the range will indicate if the risk being measured is moving, which may then necessitate corrective a
ction.   
 We also have four other executive level committees to manage risk: ALCO, Credit Policy and Strategy, Risk Management, and 
Capital Management.  Each committee focuses on specific categories of risk and is supported by a series of subcommittees that a
re tactical in nature.  We believe this structure helps ensure appropriate escalation of issues and overall communication of strat
egies.   
 Huntington utilizes three lines of defense with regard to risk management: (1) business segments, (2) corporate risk management
, and (3) internal audit and credit review.  To in
duce greater ownership of risk within its business segments, segment risk offic
ers have 
been embedded to identify and monitor risk, elevate and remediate issues, establish controls, perform self-testing, and oversee
 the self-
assessment process.  Corporate Risk Management establishes policies, sets operating limits, reviews new or modified 
products/processes, ensures consistency and quality assurance within the segments, and produces the enterprise risk assessment.
  The Chief Risk Officer has significant input into the design and outcome of incentive compensation plans as they apply to risk.  In
ternal Audit and Credit Review provide additional assurance that risk-related functions are operating as intended.   
 Risk Overview 
 We, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our financial condition or resul
ts of 
operations, many of which are outside of our direct control, though efforts are made to manage those risks while optimizing ret
urns. 
Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to loan and lease customers or other counterparties
 not being 
able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2) market risk, which is the risk of loss due to changes in 
the market 
value of assets and liabilities due to changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, and credit spre
ads, (3) 
liquidity risk, which is (a) the risk of loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to satisfy current or futu
re commitments based on external macro market issues, investor and customer perception of financial strength, and events unrelated
 to 
us such as war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues, and (b) the risk of loss based on our ability to sa
tisfy current or future funding commitments due to the mix and maturity structure of our balance sheet, amount of on-hand cash and unencumber
ed securities and the availability of contingent sources of funding, (4) operational and legal risk, which is the risk of loss due
 to human 
error, inadequate or failed internal systems and controls, including the use of financial or other quantitative methodologies t
hat may 
not adequately predict future results, violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or
 ethical 
standards, and external influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters, and security risks, and (5) com
pliance risk, which exposes us to money penalties, enforcement actions or other sanctions as a result of nonconformance with laws, rule
s, and regulations that apply to the financial services industry. 
 We also expend considerable effort to contain risk which
 emanates from execution of our business strategies and work 
relentlessly to protect the Company™s reputation.  Strategic risk and reputational risk do not easily lend themselves to tradit
ional methods of measurement.  Rather, we closely monitor them through processes such as new product / initiative reviews, frequent 
financial performance reviews, employee and client surveys, monitoring market intelligence, periodic discussions between 
management and our board, and other such efforts. 
 In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider 
that the following important factors, among others, could negatively impact our business, future results of operations, and future c
ash 
flows materially.  
 18 
 Credit Risks:  1. Our ACL level may prove to be inappropriate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures which could 
materially adversely affect our net income and capital. 
 Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers.  Our ACL of $666.0 million at December 31, 2014, represented 
Management™s estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio as well as our unfunded loan commitments and 
letters of credit.  We periodically review our ACL for appropriateness.  In doing so, we consider economic conditions and trend
s, collateral values, and credit quality indicators, such as past charge-off experience, levels of past due loans, and NPAs.  Ther
e is no 
certainty that our ACL will be appropriate over time to cover losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes 
in the 
economy, market conditions, or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries, or markets.  If the credit quality of
 our 
customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers changes materially, or if 
the ACL is 
not appropriate, our net income and capital could be materially adversely affected which, in turn, could have a material advers
e effect 
on our financial condition and results of operations. 
 In addition, bank regulators periodically review our ACL and may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses
 or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material
 adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
 2. Weakness in economic conditions could materially adversely affect our business. 
 Our performance could be negatively affected to the extent there is deterioration in business and economic conditions which hav
e direct or indirect material adverse impacts on us, our customers, and our counterparties.  These conditions could result in one
 or more 
of the following: 
  A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; 
 A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand for savings and investment products offered by us; and 
 An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy 
laws, or default on their loans or other obligations to us.  
 An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of NPAs, NCOs, provision f
or 
credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The markets we serve are dependent on industrial and manufactu
ring 
businesses and thus are particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions affecting these sectors.  

 Market Risks: 
 1. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income, reduce transactional income, and negatively impact 
the value of our loans, securities, and other assets.  This could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial 
condition, results of operations, and capital. 
 Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on inter
est earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowin
gs). 
Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international ec
onomic 
and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, and other factors bey
ond our 
control may also affect interest rates.  If our interest earning assets mature or reprice faster than interest bearing liabilit
ies in a declining interest rate environment, net interest income could be materially adversely impacted.  Likewise, if interest bearing
 liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a rising interest rate environment, net interest income could be
 adversely 
impacted. The continuation of the current low interest rate environment could affect consumer and business behavior in ways tha
t are 
adverse to us and could also constrict our net interest income margin which may restrict our ability to increase net interest i
ncome. 
 Changes in interest rates can affect the value of loans, securities, assets under management, and other assets, including mortg
age 
and nonmortgage servicing rights.  An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the pri
ncipal or interest on loans and leases may lead to an increase in NPAs and a reduction of income recognized, which could have a material 

adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued b
ut unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income.  However, we continue to incur interest expense as a cost of fundi
ng 
NALs without any corresponding interest income.  In addition, transactional income, including trust income, brokerage income, a
nd 
gain on sales of loans can vary significantly from period-to-period based on a number of factors, including the interest rate 
environment. 
  19 
Rising interest rates reduce the value of our fixed-rate debt securities and cash flow hedging derivatives portfolio.  Any unre
alized loss from these portfolios impacts OCI, shareholders™ equity, and the Tangible Common Equity ratio.  Any realized loss from the
se portfolios impacts regulatory capital ratios, notably Tier I and Total risk-based capital ratios.  In a rising interest rate en
vironment, 
pension and other post-retirement obligations somewhat mitigate negative OCI impacts from securities and financial instruments.
  For 
more information, refer to ﬁMarket Riskﬂ of the MD&A. 
 Certain investment securities, notably mortgage-backed securities, are very sensitive to rising and falling rates.  Generally, 
when 
rates rise, prepayments of principal and interest will decrease and the duration of mortgage-backed securities will increase.  
Conversely, when rates fall, prepayments of principal and interest will increase and the duration of mortgage-backed securities
 will decrease.  In either case, interest rates have a significant impact on the value of mortgage-backed securities investments. 
  Liquidity Risks:  1. Changes in either Huntington™s financial condition or in the general banking industry could result in a loss of 
depositor confidence. 
 Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost.  The Bank uses its liquidity to extend
 credit and to repay liabilities as they become due or as demanded by customers.  The board of directors establishes liquidity policies
 and limits and management establishes operating guidelines for liquidity.   
 Our primary source of liquidity is our large supply of deposits from consumer and commercial customers.  The continued 
availability of this supply depends on customer willingness to maintain deposit balances with banks in general and us in 
particular.  The availability of deposits can also be impacted by regulatory changes (e.g. changes in FDIC insurance, the Liqui
dity 
Coverage Ratio, etc.), and other events which can impact the perceived safety or economic benefits of bank deposits.  While we 
make 
significant efforts to consider and plan for hypothetical disruptions in our deposit funding, market related, geopolitical or o
ther events 
could impact the liquidity derived from deposits. 
 2.      If we lose access to capital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, 
creditors, and borrowers, or have the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. 
 Wholesale funding sources include securitization, federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-cor
e deposits, and long-term debt.  The Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, which provides members 
access to funding through advances collateralized with mortgage-related assets.  We maintain a portfolio of highly-rated, marke
table securities that is available as a source of liquidity.   
 Capital markets disruptions can directly impact the liquidity of the Bank and Corporation.  The inability to access capital mar
kets funding sources as needed could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level of regul
atory-qualifying capital.  We may, from time-to-time, consider using our existing liquidity position to opportunistically retire outs
tanding 
securities in privately negotiated or open market transactions.   
 Operational and Legal Risks: 
 1. We face security risks, including denial of service attacks, hacking and identity theft that could result in the disclosure 
of confidential information, adversely affect our business or reputation and create significant legal and financial exposure. 
 Our computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such a
s denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engag
ed in data 
processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated
 and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, 
or 
sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer virus
es or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of servi
ce attacks have been launched against a number of large financial 
services institutions, including us. None of these events result
ed in a 
breach of our client data or account information; however, the performance of our website, www.huntington.com, was adversely 
affected, and in some instances customers were prevented from accessing our website. We expect to be subject to similar attacks
 in the 
future. While events to date primarily resulted in inconvenience, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. H
acking 
and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may n
ot be able 
to anticipate or prevent all such attacks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss. 
    20 
Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, we will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types,
 nor will we be able to implement guaranteed preventive measures against such security breaches. Persistent attackers may succeed in 
penetrating defenses given enough resources, time and motive.   The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may n
ot be recognized until launched and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external servic
e providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. These risks may increase in the 
future as 
we continue to increase our mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-base
d products and applications.   
 Even the most advanced internal control environment may be vulnerable to compromise.  Targeted social engineering attacks are 
becoming more sophisticated and are extremely difficult to prevent. The successful social engineer will attempt to fraudulently
 induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or tha
t of its 
clients.  A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause us serious negative consequences, including significan
t disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential informati
on, or damage to our computers or systems or those of our 
customers and counterparties. A successful security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, fin
ancial 
loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our r
eputation, 
all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 
 2. The resolution of significant pending litigation, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of 
operations for a particular period.  
 We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and 
regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability against us could have material a
dverse 
financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.  It 
is possible that the ultimate resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations for a particular re
porting period.   
 Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements updates the status of litigation concerning Cyberco Holdings, Inc.  
Although the bank maintains litigation reserves related to this case, the ultimate resolution of the matter, if unfavorable, ma
y be 
material to our results of operations for a particular reporting period.   
 3. We face significant operational risks which could lead to financial loss, expensive litigation, and loss of confidence by 
our customers, regulators, and capital markets. 
 We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including the ri
sk of fraud or theft by employ
ees or outsiders, unauthorized
 transactions by employees or outsiders, or operational errors by employees.  Huntington executes against a significant number o
f controls, a large percent of which are manual and dependent on adequate execution by colleagues and third party service provide
rs.  
There is inherent risk that unknown single points of failure through the execution chain could give rise to material loss throu
gh 
inadvertent errors or malicious attack.  These operational risks could lead to financial loss, expensive litigation, and loss o
f confidence 
by our customers, regulators, and the capital markets. 
 Moreover, negative public opinion can result from our actual or
 alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending 
practices, corporate governance, and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations i
n response to those activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and can
 also 
expose us to litigation and regulatory action.   
 Relative to acquisitions, we cannot predict if, or when, we will be able to identify and attract acquisition candidates or make
 acquisitions on favorable terms.  We incur risks and challenges associated with the integration of acquired institutions in a t
imely and 
efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving 
anticipated operating efficiencies. 
 4. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future could impair our ability to 
accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely 

affecting our business and stock price. 
    21 
Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As 
a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation that focuses on effective internal controls and procedures.  Such contr
ols and 
procedures are modified, supplemented, and changed from time-to-time as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external 

events and developments.  Any failure to maintain, in the future, an effective internal control environment could impact our ab
ility to report our financial results on an accurate and timely basis, which could result in regulatory actions, loss of investor confid
ence, and 
adversely impact our business and stock price. 
 5. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. 
 Quantitative models may be used to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, 
including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are 
unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results
 of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the CCAR capital planning and capital adequacy 
process). Our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. These assumptions may n
ot capture or fully incorporate conditions leading to losses, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correla
tions on which we rely may no longer be relevant. Additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately 
reflect this evolution. Even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our mod
els may 
be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of
 the 
model™s design.   
 
All models have certain limitations.  Reliance on models presents the risk that our business decisions based on information 
incorporated from models will be adversely affected due to incorrect, missing, or misleading information.  In addition, our mod
els may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may l
ead us 
to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. If our models fail to produce reliable results on a
n ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions.  Strate
gies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable.  Also, 

information that we provide to 
the public or regulators based on poorly designed m
odels could be inaccurate or misleading.  
 Banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses.  Some of our 
decisions that the regulators evaluate, including distributions to our shareholders, could be affected adversely due to their p
erception 
that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.   
 Compliance Risks: 
 1. Bank regulations regarding capital and liquidity, including the annual CCAR assessment process and the Basel III 
capital and liquidity standards, could require higher levels of capital and liquidity.  Among other things, these regulations 
could impact our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase common stock, attract cost-effective sources of deposits, 
or require the retention of higher amounts of low yielding securities. 
 The Federal Reserve administers the annual CCAR, an assessment of the capital adequacy of bank holding companies with 
consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and of the practices used by covered banks to assess capital needs.  Under CCAR, the
 Federal Reserve makes a qualitative assessment of capital adequacy on a forward-looking basis and reviews the strength of a ban
k holding company™s capital adequacy process.  The Federal Reserve also makes a quantitative assessment of capital based on 
supervisory-run stress tests that assess the ability to maintain capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and
 above a tier 1 common ratio of 5% and common equity tier 1 ratio of 4.5%, after making all capital actions included in a bank holding 
company™s capital plan, under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon.  Capital plans for 
2015 
were required to be submitted by January 5, 2015, and the Federal Reserve will either object to the capital plan and/or planned
 capital 
actions, or provide a notice of non-objection, no later than March 31, 2015. We submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reser
ve on 
January 5, 2015. There can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve will respond favorably to our capital plan, capital actions
 or stress 
test and the Federal Reserve, OCC, or other regulatory capital requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our 
capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases. 
 On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve voted to adopt final Basel III capital rules for U.S. Banking organizations.  The final ru
les establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and will implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital r
eforms 
from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Under the final rule, 
minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations.  As a Standardiz
ed Approach institution, the Basel III minimum capital requirements became effective for us on January 1, 2015, and will be fully 

phased-in on January 1, 2019.   
    22 
On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved a final rule to implement a minimum liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 
requirement for banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more, and a less stringent modified LCR
 requirement to depository institution holding companies below the threshold but with total consolidated assets of $50 billion o
r more. 
The LCR requires covered banking organizations to maintain HQLA equal to projected stressed cash outflows over a 30 calendar-da
y stress scenario.  We are covered by the modified LCR requirement and therefore subject to the phase-in of the rule beginning Ja
nuary 
2016 at 90% and January 2017 at 100%.  We will also be required to calculate the LCR monthly.  The LCR assigns less severe 

outflow assumptions to certain types of customer deposits, which should increase the demand, and perhaps the cost, among banks 
for 
these deposits.  Additionally, the HQLA requirements will increase the demand for direct US government and US government- 
guaranteed debt that, while high quality, generally carry lower yields than other securities that banks hold in their investmen
t portfolios.  2. If our regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions that could result in a material adverse impact 
on our financial results, ability to compete for new business, constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs or pay dividen
ds, 
and increase the cost of our services. 

 We are subject to the supervision and regulation of various state and federal regulators, including the OCC, Federal Reserve, 
FDIC, SEC, CFPB, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and various state regulatory agencies.  As such, we are subject to a 
wide variety of laws and regulations, many of which are discussed in the Regulatory Matters section.  As part of their supervisory p
rocess, 
which includes periodic examinations and continuous monitoring, the regulators have the authority to impose restrictions or con
ditions on our activities and the manner in which we manage the organization.  Such actions could negatively impact us in a variety of 
ways, including monetary fines, impacting our ability to pay dividends, precluding mergers or acquisitions, limiting our ability to o
ffer 
certain products or services, or imposing additional capital requirements.   
 With the development of the CFPB, our consumer products and services are subject to increasing regulatory oversight and 
scrutiny with respect to compliance under consumer laws and regulations.  We may face a greater number or wider scope of 
investigations, enforcement actions and litigation in the future related to consumer practices, thereby increasing costs associ
ated with responding to or defending such actions.  In addition, increased regulatory inquiries and investigations, as well as any additi
onal legislative or regulatory developments affecting our consumer businesses, and any required changes to our business operations 
resulting from these developments, could result in significant loss of revenue, require remuneration to our customers, trigger 
fines or penalties, limit the products or services we offer, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our produ
cts, impose additional compliance costs on us, cause harm to our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our consumer businesses.  
  3. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future that impact the financial industry may materially 
adversely affect us by increasing our costs, adding complexity in doing business, impeding the efficiency of our internal 
business processes, negatively impacting the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, requiring us to increase our 
regulatory capital, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, and otherwise result in a material adverse impact on
 our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price.  
 The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes
 the CFPB, and requires the bureau and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations.  It i
s not possible to predict the full extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, or the resulting rules and regulations in their entirety, will
 impact our 
business.  Compliance with these new laws and regulations have and will continue to result in additional costs, which could be 
significant, and may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, if we do not appropriately 
comply 
with current or future legislation and regulations that apply to our consumer operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties
 or judgments, or material regulatory restrictions on our businesses, which could adversely affect operations and, in turn, financi
al results.  
 Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments 
 None.     23 
Item 2: Properties 
 Our headquarters, as well as the Bank™s, is located in the Huntington Center, a thirty seven story office building located in 
Columbus, Ohio. Of the building™s total office space available, we lease approximately 28%. The lease term expires in 2030, wit
h six five-year renewal options for up to 30 years but with no purchase option. The Bank has an indirect minority equity interest of 
18.4% 
in the building. 
 Our other major properties consist of the following: 
   
     
 Description Location Own Lease 
 13 story office building, located adjacent to the Huntington Center Columbus, Ohio 
   12 story office building, located adjacent to the Huntington Center Columbus, Ohio 
   3 story office building  - the Crosswoods building Columbus, Ohio  
  A portion of 200 Public Square Building Cleveland, Ohio  
  12 story office building Youngstown, Ohio 
   10 story office building Warren, Ohio  
  10 story office building  Toledo, Ohio 
   A portion of the Grant Building Pittsburgh, PA  
  18 story office building Charleston, West Virginia  
  3 story office building Holland, Michigan  
  2 building office complex  Troy, Michigan 
   Data processing and operations center (Easton) Columbus, Ohio 
   Data processing and operations cent
er (Northland) Columbus, Ohio 
   Data processing and operations center (Parma)  Cleveland, Ohio 
   8 story office building Indianapolis, Indiana 
   Item 3: Legal Proceedings 
 Information required by this item is set forth in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and incorporated in
to this Item by reference.
  Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
  Not applicable.  PART II 
 Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities  The common stock of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol ﬁHBANﬂ. 
The stock is listed as ﬁHuntgBcshrﬂ or ﬁHuntBancﬂ in most newspapers. As of January 31, 2015, we had 28,369 shareholders of 
record.  Information regarding the high and low sale prices of our common stock and cash dividends declared on such shares, as required 
by this Item, is set forth in Table 46 entitled Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data and incorporated into this Item by ref
erence.  
Information regarding restrictions on dividends, as required by this Item, is set forth in Item 1 Business-Regulatory Matters a
nd in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and incorporated into this Item by reference. 
 The following graph shows the changes, over the five-year period, in 
the value of $100 invested in
 (i) shares of Huntington™s 
Common Stock; (ii) the Standard & Poor™s 500 Stock Index (the ﬁS&P 500 Indexﬂ) and (iii) Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank Index 
(the ﬁKBW Bank Indexﬂ), for the period December 31, 2009, through December 31, 2014. The KBW Bank Index is a market 

capitalization-weighted bank stock index published by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The index is composed of the largest banking 
companies and includes all money center banks and regional banks, including Huntington.  An investment of $100 on December 31, 
2009, and the reinvestment of all dividends, are assumed.  The plotted points represent the closing price on the last trading d
ay of the 
fiscal year indicated.
   24 
    The following table provides information re
garding Huntington™s purchases of its Common Stock during the three-month period 
ended December 31, 2014: 

 Period Total Number 
of Shares 
Purchased Average 
Price Paid Per ShareTotal Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of 
Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1)Maximum Number of Shares (or 
Approximate Dollar Value) that 
May Yet Be Purchased Under the 
Plans or Programs (2) October 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014  
2,647,087$9.4620,179,890$61,369,532
November 1, 2014 to November 30, 2014  
958,14410.0821,138,03451,711,440
December 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014  
--21,138,03451,711,440
Total  3,605,231$9.6321,138,034$51,711,440
(1) The reported shares were repurchased pursuant to Huntington's publicly announced stock repurchase authorization, which beca
me 
effective April 1, 2014. 
(2) The number shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares (approximate dollar value) of 
Common Stock that may yet be purchased under publicly announced stock repurchase authorizations. The shares may be purchased, 
from time-to-time, depending on market conditions. 

 On March 26, 2014, Huntington announced that the Federal Reserve did not object to Huntington's proposed capital actions 
included in Huntington's capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 2014. These actions included a potential repu
rchase 
of up to $250 million of common stock through the first quarter of 2015. This repurchase authorization represented a $23 millio
n, or 
10%, increase from the prior common stock repurchase authorization. Purchases of common stock may include open market 

purchases, privately negotiated transactions, and accelerated repurchase programs. Huntington™s board of directors authorized a
 share 
repurchase program consistent with Huntington™s capital plan. During the 2014 fourth quarter, Huntington repurchased a total of
 3.6 
million shares at a weighted average share price of $9.63. For the year ended December 31, 2014, Huntington purchased 35.7 mill
ion common shares at a weighted average price of $9.37 per share.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, Huntington purchased 16.7 
million common shares at a weighted average price of $7.46 per share. 
   25 
Item 6: Selected Financial Data 
 Table 1- Selected Financial Data (1)  
          
  Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 
2014  2013  2012  2011  2010  
 Interest income $ 1,976,462$ 1,860,637$ 1,930,263$ 1,970,226 $ 2,145,392 
 Interest expense  139,321 156,029 219,739 341,056  526,587 
 Net interest income  1,837,141 
1,704,608 
1,710,524 
1,629,170  
1,618,805 
 Provision for credit losses  80,989 
90,045 
147,388 174,059  634,547 
Net interest income after provision for credit losses  1,756,152
1,614,563 
1,563,136 
1,455,111  
984,258 
Noninterest income  979,179 1,012,196 1,106,321 992,317  1,053,660 
Noninterest expense  1,882,346 1,758,003 
1,835,876 1,728,500  1,673,805 
Income before income taxes  852,985 868,756 833,581 718,928  364,113 
Provision for income taxes  220,593 227,474 202,291 172,555  57,465 
Net income $ 632,392$ 641,282$ 631,290$ 546,373 $ 306,648 
Dividends on preferred shares  31,85431,86931,98930,813  172,032
Net income applicable to common shares $ 600,538$ 609,413$ 599,301$ 515,560 $ 134,616 
Net income per common share - basic $ 0.73$ 0.73$ 0.70$ 0.60 $ 0.19 
Net income per common share - diluted  0.720.72 0.69 0.59  0.18 
Cash dividends declared per common share  0.210.19 0.16 0.10  0.04 
Balance sheet highlights  
        Total assets (period end) $ 66,298,010$ 59,467,174$ 56,141,474$ 54,448,673 $ 53,813,903 
Total long-term debt (period end)  4,335,962 2,458,272 1,364,834 2,747,857  3,663,826 

Total shareholders' equity (period end)  6,328,170 6,090,153 5,778,500 5,416,121  4,974,803 
Average long-term debt  3,494,987 1,670,502 1,986,612 3,182,900  3,893,246 
Average shareholders' equity  6,269,884 5,914,914 5,671,455 5,237,541  5,482,502 

Average total assets  62,498,880 56,299,313 55,673,599 53,750,054  52,574,231 
Key ratios and statistics  
          Margin analysis - as a % of average earnings assets    
         Interest income
(2)
  3.47%3.66%3.85%4.09 % 4.55%
 Interest expense  0.240.30 0.44 0.71  1.11 
Net interest margin
(2)  3.23%3.36%3.41%3.38 % 3.44%
Return on average total assets  1.01%1.14%1.13%1.02 % 0.58%
Return on average common shareholders' equity  10.211.0 11.3 10.6  3.5 
Return on average tangible common shareholders' 
equity(3), (7)  11.812.7 13.3 12.8  5.4 
Efficiency ratio
(4)
  65.162.6 63.2 63.5  60.1 
Dividend payout ratio  28.826.0 22.9 16.7  21.1 
Average shareholders' equity to average assets  10.0310.51 10.19 9.74  10.43 
Effective tax rate  25.926.2 24.3 24.0  15.8 
Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio (period end)
(7), (8)  10.2310.90 10.48 10.00  9.29 
Tangible common equity to tangible assets (period 
end) (5), (7)  8.17 8.82 8.74 8.30  7.55 
Tangible equity to tangible assets (period end)
(6), (7)  8.76 9.47 9.44 9.01  8.23 
Tier 1 leverage ratio (period end)
(9)  9.74 10.67 10.36 10.28  9.41 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (period end)
(9)  11.50 12.28 12.02 12.11  11.55 
Total risk-based capital ratio (period end)
(9)  13.56 14.57 14.50 14.77  14.46 
Other data  
          Full-time equivalent employees (average)  11,873 
11,964 
11,494 
11,398  
11,038 
Domestic banking offices (period end)  729 
711 
705 
668  620 
    26 
(1)  Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to the Significant Items for additional discussio
n regarding these key factors. 
(2)  On an FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(3)  Net income (loss) excluding expense for amortization of intangibles for the period divided by average tangible shareholders' 
equity. Average tangible shareholders' equity equals average total shareholders' equity less average intangible assets and goodwill.  
Expense for amortization of intangibles and average intangible assets are net of deferred tax liability, and calculated assumin
g a 35% tax rate. (4)  Noninterest expense less amortization of intangibles divided by the sum of FTE net interest income and noninterest income 
excluding securities gains. (5)  Tangible common equity (total common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total asse
ts less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax and calculated assuming a 35% tax 
rate. (6)  Tangible equity (total equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets less goodwi
ll and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(7)  Tier 1 common equity, tangible equity, tangible common equity, and tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures.  
Additionally, any ratios utilizing these financial measures are also non-GAAP.  These financial measures have been included as 
they are considered to be critical metrics with which to analyze and evaluate financial condition and capital strength.  Other 
companies may calculate these financial measures differently. 
(8)  In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filings
 for 
newly adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 common equity, and risk-weighted assets have not been 
updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01.   
(9)  In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filings
 for 
newly adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, regulatory capital data has not been updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01. 
    27 
Item 7:  Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
 INTRODUCTION  We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in 
Columbus, Ohio.  Through the Bank, we have 149 years of servicing the financial needs of our customers.  Through our subsidiari
es, we provide full-service commercial and consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, equipment 
leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance service programs, and other financial products an
d services.  Our 715 branches are located in Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. Selected financi
al services and other activities are also conducted in various other states.  International banking services are available through
 the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio and a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands and another limited purpose of
fice located in Hong Kong.  Our foreign banking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant. 
 This MD&A provides information we believe necessary for understanding our financial condition, changes in financial condition, 
results of operations, and cash flows.  The MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note
s to Consolidated Financial Statements, and other information contained in this report. 
 
Our discussion is divided into key segments:   
  Executive Overview
 - Provides a summary of our current financial 
performance and business overview, including our 
thoughts on the impact of the economy, legislative and regulatory initiatives, and recent industry developments.  This section 
also provides our outlook regarding our expectations for the next several quarters. 
 Discussion of Results of Operations
 - Reviews financial performance from a consolidated Company perspective.  It also 
includes a Significant Items section that summarizes key issues helpful for understanding performance trends. Key 
consolidated average balance sheet and income statement trends are also discussed in this section.    
 Risk Management and Capital 
- Discusses credit, market, liquidity, operational, and compliance risks, including how these 
are managed, as well as performance trends. It also includes a 
discussion of liquidity policies
, how we obtain
 funding, and related performance. In addition, there is a discussion of guarantees and / or commitments made for items such as standby 

letters of credit and commitments to sell loans, and a discussion that reviews the adequacy of capital, including regulatory 
capital requirements.  Business Segment Discussion
 - Provides an overview of financial performance for each of our major business segments and 
provides additional discussion of trends underlying consolidated financial performance. 
 Results for the Fourth Quarter 
- Provides a discussion of results for the 2014 
fourth quarter compared
 with the 2013 fourth 
quarter. 
 Additional Disclosures 
- Provides comments on important matters including forward-looking statements, critical accounting 
policies and use of significant estimates, and recent accounting pronouncements and developments.   
A reading of each section is important to understand fully the nature of our financial performance and prospects. 
 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
 2014 Financial Performance Review 
 In 2014, we reported net income of $632.4 million, or $0.72 per common share, relatively unchanged from the prior year.  This 
resulted in a 1.01% return on average assets and a 11.8% return on average tangible common equity.  In addition, we grew our ba
se of consumer and business customers as we increased 2014 average earning assets by $6.1 billion, or 12%, over the prior year.  Our 

strategic business investments and OCR sales approach continued to generate positive results in 2014.  
(Also, see Significant Items 
Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons within the Discussion of Results of Operations.)
       28 
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income was $1.9 billion in 2014, an increase of $132.7 million, or 8%, compared with 2013
.  This reflected the impact of 12% earning asset growth, partially offset by 13% interest-bearing liability growth and a 13 basis
 point 
decrease in the NIM to 3.23%.  The earning asset growth reflected a $3.6 billion, or 9%, increase in average loans and leases a
nd a $2.7 billion, or 29%, increase in average securities. The loan growth reflected an increase in average automobile loans, as the
 growth 
in originations remained strong. Also, average C&I loans increased which primarily reflected growth in trade finance in support
 of our 
middle market and corporate customers.  The securities growth primarily reflected an increase in LCR level 1 qualified securiti
es and 
direct purchase municipal instruments.  This earnings asset growth was partially offset by a $4.7 billion, or 13%, increase in 
interest-
bearing liabilities.  The interest-bearing liability growth reflected a $3.2 billion, or 104%, increase in short- and long-term
 borrowings 
and a $2.2 billion, or 14%, increase in money market deposits, partially offset by a $1.2 billion, or 27%, decrease in average 
core certificates of deposit.  Borrowings have been a cost effective method to fund our incremental securities growth and the change
 in deposit mix reflects our strategic focus on changing funding sources.  The NIM contraction reflected a 19 basis point decrease 
related to the mix and yield of earning assets and 3 basis point reduction in the benefit to the margin from the impact of noninterest-
bearing 
funds, partially offset by the 9 basis point reduction in funding costs.   
 
Noninterest income was $979.2 million in 2014, a decrease of $33.0 million, or 3%, compared with 2013.  Mortgage banking 
income was down due to a reduction in origination and secondary marketing revenue as originations decreased and gain-on-sale 
margins compressed, and a negative impact from net MSR hedging activity.  In addition, other income declined primarily due to a
 decrease in LIHTC gains and lower fees associated with commercial loan activity and trust services primarily due to a reduction
 in 
fees.  These declines were partially offset by an increase in 
securities gains as we adjusted the mix of our securities portfol
io to prepare for the LCR requirements and an increase in electronic banking income due to higher card related income and underlying 
customer growth.   
 Noninterest expense was $1.9 billion in 2014, an increase of $124.3 million, or 7%, compared with 2013.  This reflected an 
increase in personnel costs, other expense, professional services, outside data processing and other services, and equipment.  
The 
increase included $65.5 million of significant items related to franchise repositioning, merger and acquisition costs, and addi
tions to 
the litigation reserves (
This section should be read in conjunction with Table 8 Œ Noninterest Expense
).  Excluding the impact of the 
significant items, other noninterest expense increased due to state franchise taxes, protective advances, and litigation expens
e.  
Professional services increased due to outside consultant expenses related to strategic planning and legal services.  Outside d
ata processing and other services increased, primarily reflecting higher debit and credit card processing costs and increased other
 technology investment expense, as we continue to invest in technology supporting our products, services, and our Continuous 
Improvement initiatives. 
 Credit quality continued to improve in 2014.  NALs declined $21.8 million, or 7%, from 2013 to $300.2 million, or 0.63% of tota
l loans and leases.  NPAs declined $14.4 million, or 4%, compared to a year-ago to $337.7 million, or 0.71% of total loans and le
ases, OREO, and other NPAs.  The decreases primarily reflected meaningful improvement in both CRE and residential mortgage NALs.  
The provision for credit losses decreased $9.1
 million, or 10%, from 2013 due to the c
ontinued decline in NCOs and nonaccrual l
oans.  
NCOs decreased $64.0 million, or 34%, from the prior year to $124.6 million.  NCOs were an annualized 0.27% of average loans an
d leases in the current year compared to 0.45% in 2013.  The ACL as a percentage of total loans and leases decreased to 1.40% fro
m 1.65% a year ago, while the ACL as a percentage of period-end total NALs increased slightly to 222% from 221%. However, 
criticized and classified loans did increase $95.1 million, or 7%, from prior year. 

 The tangible common equity to tangible assets ratio at Dece
mber 31, 2014, was 8.17%, down 65 basis points from a year ago.  
Our Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at 
year end was 10.23%, down 
from 10.90% at the end of 20
13.  The regulatory Tier 1 
risk-based capital ratio at December 31, 2014, was 11.50%, down from 12.28% at December 31, 2013.  The decreases in the capital
 ratios were due to balance sheet growth and share repurchases that were partially offset by increased retained earnings and the
 stock 
issued in the Camco Financial acquisition. Specifically, all capital ratios were impacted by the repurchase of 35.7 million com
mon 
shares over the last four quarters, 3.6 million of which were repurchased during the 2014 fourth quarter. This decrease was off
set partially by the increase in retained earnings, as well as the issuance of 8.7 million common shares in the Camco acquisition. 
 Huntington estimates the negative impact to Tier 1 common risk-based capital from the 2015 first quarter implementation of the 

Federal Reserve™s revised Basel III capital rules will be approximately 40 basis points on a fully phased-in basis. 
 Business Overview 
 General 
 Our general business objectives are: (1) grow net interest income and fee income, (2) deliver positive operating leverage, (3) 
increase primary relationships across all business segments, (4) continue to strengthen risk management and reduce volatility, 
and (5) 
maintain strong capital and liquidity positions. 
    29 
Huntington enjoys a unique an
d advantaged position in the indu
stry and our future is bright. 
We are focused on executing our 
strategic plan, and we are very pleased with the results we are achieving. For the past several years we have invested in the c
ompany 
at a time when most of the industry has been pulling back. We have expanded and optimized our retail distribution, both physica
l and digital. We have invested in small business and commercial specialty lending verticals. We have added new products, such as our
 consumer and commercial credit cards and our new business and consumer checking accounts. These represent just a handful of the
 investments we have made. Our 2014 earnings reflected results from these investments. Yet significant opportunity remains as no
ne of 
these investments are mature. We have a strong outlook for the future. 
 Economy 
 We remain optimistic on the economy in our footprint as fundamentals look positive. Home prices are improving, and the recent 
reduction in interest rates provides another refinance window. Auto
mobile sales were very strong in 
2014 and appear poised for 
another great, if not even better, year in 2015. The state governments in our footprint are operating with surpluses, and most 
of the 
municipalities are on solid footing. We have good momentum on the consumer side. Our loan pipeline remains stable, and customer
 activity among our core small and middle market business customer base continues to trend favorably.  
 Legislative and Regulatory 
 A comprehensive discussion of legislative and regulatory matters affecting us can be found in the Regulatory Matters section 
included in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.   

 2015 Expectations 
 As we move into 2015, customer activity is strong, pipelines are stable, and our balance sheet is well positioned.  We built ou
r plan with an assumption of no change in interest rates and with the flexibility to quickly adjust to the evolving operating env
ironment.  
We remain committed to investing in the bus
iness, disciplined expense control, an
d delivering full-year positive operating leve
rage. 
 Excluding Significant Items and net MSR hedging activity, we expect to deliver positive operating leverage in 2015 with revenue
 growth exceeding noninterest expense growth of 2-4%. 
 Overall, asset quality metrics are expected to remain near current levels, although moderate quarterly volatility also is expec
ted, 
given the absolute low level of problem assets and credit costs. We anticipate NCOs will remain within or below our long-term 
normalized range of 35 to 55 basis points. 
 
The effective tax rate for 2015 is expected to be in the range of 25% to 28%. 
  30 
Table 2 - Selected Annual Income Statements (1)           
  Year Ended December 31, 
    Chan
ge from 2013Chan
ge from 2012 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share 
amounts) 
2014 Amount Percent 2013 Amount Percent 2012 
 Interest income $ 1,976,462 $115,8256%$1,860,637$(69,626)(4)%$1,930,263
 Interest expense  139,321  (16,708)(11) 156,029 (63,710)(29)  219,739
 Net interest income  1,837,141  132,5338 1,704,608 (5,916)---  1,710,524
 Provision for credit losses  80,989  (9,056)(10) 90,045 (57,343)(39)  147,388
Net interest income after 
provision for   
 credit losses  1,756,152  141,5899 1,614,563 51,427 3  1,563,136

 Service charges on deposit accounts   273,741  1,9391 271,802 9,623 4  262,179
 Trust services   115,972  (7,035)(6) 123,007 1,110 1  121,897

 Electronic banking  105,401  12,81014 92,591 10,301 13  82,290
 Mortgage banking income  84,887  (41,968)(33) 126,855 (64,237)(34)  191,092
 Brokerage income  68,277  (1,347)(2) 69,624 (3,060)(4)  72,684

 Insurance income  65,473  (3,791)(5) 69,264 (2,055)(3)  71,319
 Bank owned life insurance income  57,048  6291 56,419 377 1  56,042

 Capital markets fees  43,731  (1,489)(3) 45,220 (2,940)(6)  48,160
 Gain on sale of loans  21,091  2,92016 18,171 (40,011)(69)  58,182

 Securities gains (losses)  17,554  17,1364,100 418 (4,351)(91)  4,769
 Other income   126,004  (12,821)(9) 138,825 1,118 1  137,707
Total noninterest income  979,179  (33,017)(3) 1,012,196 (94,125)(9)  1,106,321
 Personnel costs  1,048,775  47,1385 1,001,637 13,444 1  988,193
 Outside data processing and other 
 212,586  13,0397 199,547 9,292 5  190,255
 Net occupancy  128,076  2,7322 125,344 14,184 13  111,160
 Equipment  119,663  12,87012 106,793 3,846 4  102,947
 Professional services  59,555  18,96847 40,587 (25,171)(38)  65,758
 Marketing  50,560  (625)(1) 51,185 (13,078)(20)  64,263

 Deposit and other insurance expense  49,044  (1,117)(2) 50,161 (18,169)(27)  68,330
 Amortization of intangibles  39,277  (2,087)(5) 41,364 (5,185)(11)  46,549

 Gain on early extinguishment of debt  ---  ------ --- 798 (100)  (798)
 Other expense  174,810  33,42524 141,385 (57,834)(29)  199,219
Total noninterest expense  1,882,346  124,3437 1,758,003 (77,873)(4)  1,835,876
Income before income taxes  852,985  (15,771)(2) 868,756 35,175 4  833,581
Provision for income taxes  220,593  (6,881)(3) 227,474 25,183 12  202,291
Net income $ 632,392 $(8,890)(1)%$641,282$9,992 2%$631,290
Dividends on preferred shares  31,854  (15)--- 31,869 (120)---  31,989
Net income applicable to common shares $ 600,538 $(8,875)(1)%$609,413$10,112 2%$599,301
Average common shares - 
basic  819,917 
(14,288)(2)%834,205
(23,757)(3)%857,962
Average common shares - diluted  833,081  (10,893)(1) 843,974 (19,428)(2)  863,402
Per common share:   
Net income - 
basic $ 0.73 $------%$0.73$0.03 4%$0.70
Net income - diluted  0.72  ------ 0.72 0.03 4  0.69
Cash dividends declared  0.21  0.0211 0.19 0.03 19  0.16
Revenue - FTE        
    Net interest income $ 1,837,141 $132,5338%$1,704,608$(5,916)---%$1,710,524
 FTE adjustment  27,550  2101 27,340 6,934 34  20,406
Net interest income
(2)  1,864,691  132,7438 1,731,948 1,018 ---  1,730,930
Noninterest income  979,179  (33,017)(3) 1,012,196 (94,125)(9)  1,106,321
Total revenue
(2) $ 2,843,870 $99,7264%$2,744,144$(93,107)(3)%$2,837,251
 (1)  Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to ﬁSignificant Itemsﬂ. 
(2)  On a fully-taxable equivalent (FTE) basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 31 
DISCUSSION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  This section provides a review of financial performance from a consolidated perspective. It also includes a ﬁSignificant Items
ﬂ section that summarizes key issues important for a complete understanding of performance trends. Key consolidated balance sheet
 and income statement trends are discussed. All earnings per share data are reported on a diluted basis. For additional insight on f
inancial 
performance, please read this section in conjunction with the ﬁBusiness Segment Discussion.ﬂ 
 Significant Items  
Definition of Significant Items  From time-to-time, revenue, expenses, or taxes are impacted by items judged by us to be outside of ordinary banking activities 
and / or by items that, while they may be associated with ordinary banking activities, are so unusually large that their outsiz
ed impact 
is believed by us at that time to be infrequent or short-term in nature. We refer to such items as Significant Items. Most ofte
n, these 
Significant Items result from factors originating outside the company; e.g., regulatory actions / assessments, windfall gains, 
changes in 
accounting principles, one-time tax assessments / refunds, litigation actions, etc.  In other cases, they may result from our d
ecisions associated with significant corporate actions outside of the ordinary course of business; e.g., merger / restructuring charges,
 recapitalization actions, goodwill impairment, etc.   
 Even though certain revenue and expense items are naturally subject to more volatility than others due to changes in market and
 economic environment conditions, as a general rule volatility alone does not define a Significant Item. For example, changes in
 the 
provision for credit losses, gains / losses from investment activities, asset valuation writedowns, etc., reflect ordinary bank
ing 
activities and are, therefore, typically excluded from consideration as a Significant Item. 
 We believe the disclosure of Significant Items provides a better understanding of our performance and trends to ascertain which
 of such items, if any, to include or exclude from an analysis of our performance; i.e., within the context of determining how t
hat performance differed from expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust estimates of future performance accordingly. To th
is end, we adopted a practice of listing Significant Items in our external disclosure documents; e.g., earnings press releases, investo
r presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K. 
 Significant Items for any particular period are not intended to be a complete list of items that may materially impact current 
or 
future period performance.  
 Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons 
 Earnings comparisons among the three years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 were impacted by a number of 
Significant Items summarized below. 

 1. Franchise Repositioning Related Expense.
  Significant events relating to franchise repositioning related expense, and the 
impacts of those events on our reported results, were as follows: 
  During 2014, $28.0 million of franchise repositioning related
 expense was recorded fo
r the consolidation of 26 
branches and organizational actions. This resulted in a negative impact of $0.02 per common share in 2014.  
  During 2013, $23.5 million of franchise 
repositioning related expense was record
ed.  This resulted in a negative 
impact of $0.02 per common share in 2013. 
 2. Litigation Reserve.
  $20.9 million and $23.5 million of net additions to litigation reserves were recorded as other noninterest 
expense in 2014 and 2012, resp
ectively.  This resulted in a negative impact of
 $0.02 per common shar
e in 2014 and 2012.
  3. Mergers and Acquisitions.  
During 2014, $15.8 million of net noninterest expense was recorded related to the acquisition of 
24 Bank of America branches and Camco Financial. This resulted in a negative impact of $0.01 per common share in 2014.
  4. Pension Curtailment Gain.  During 2013, a $33.9 million pension curtailment gain was recorded in personnel costs.  This 
resulted in a positive impact of $0.03 per common share in 2013. 
 5. State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment.
   During 2012, a valuation allowance of $21.3 million (net of tax) 
was released for the portion of the deferred tax asset and state net operating loss carryforwards expected to be realized.  Thi
s resulted in a positive impact of $0.02 per common share in 2012.  Additional information can be found in the Provision for 
Income Taxes section within this MD&A.
   32 
 6. Bargain Purchase Gain.
  During 2012, an $11.2 million bargain purchase gain associated with the FDIC-assisted Fidelity 
Bank acquisition was recorded in noninterest income.  This resulted in a positive impact of $0.01 per common share in 2012. 
 The following table reflects the earnings impact of the above-mentioned Significant Items for periods affected by this Results 
of 
Operations discussion: 

 Table 3 - Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparison  
       
  2014 2013 2012 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 
After-tax EPS After-tax EPS After-tax EPS  
Net income - GAAP $632,392  $641,282  $631,290   
Earnings per share, after-tax   $ 0.72  $ 0.72   $ 0.69
               
 Significant items - favorable (unfavorable) impact: 
 Earnings (1) 
EPS 
(2)(3)  Earnings (1) 
EPS 
(2)(3)  Earnings (1) 
EPS 
(2)(3)  Franchise repositioning related expense $(27,976)$(0.02)$(23,461)$(0.02)$---$--- 
Net additions to litigation reserve (20,909)(0.02)------ (23,500)(0.02) 
Mergers and acquisitions, net (15,818)(0.01)------ ------ 
Pension curtailment gain ------33,9260.03 ------ 
State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment
(3) ------ ------ 21,2510.02 
Bargain purchase gain ------------ 11,2170.01 
  (1)Pretax unless otherwise noted. 
     
(2)Based upon the annual average outstanding diluted common shares.       
(3)After-tax.       
 Net Interest Income / Average Balance Sheet 
 Our primary source of revenue is net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from earning assets 
(primarily loans, securities, and direct financing leases), and interest expense of funding sources (primarily interest-bearing
 deposits 
and borrowings). Earning asset balances and related funding sources, as well as changes in the levels of interest rates, impact
 net interest income. The difference between the average yield on earning assets and the average rate paid for interest-bearing liab
ilities is the net interest spread. Noninterest-bearing sources of funds, such as demand deposits and shareholders™ equity, also support e
arning 
assets. The impact of the noninterest-bearing sources of funds, often referred to as ﬁfreeﬂ funds, is captured in the net inter
est margin, 
which is calculated as net interest income divided by average earning assets.  Both the net interest margin and net interest sp
read are presented on a fully-taxable equivalent basis, which means that tax-free interest income has been adjusted to a pretax equivale
nt income, assuming a 35% tax rate.  
    33 
The following table shows changes in fully-taxable equivalent interest income, interest expense, and net interest income due to
 volume and rate variances for major categories of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities: 
 Table 4 - Change in Net Interest Income Due to Changes in Average Volume and Interest Rates
(1)   2014 2013 
   Increase (Decrease) From  Increase (Decrease) From 
   Previous Year Due To  Previous Year Due To 
Fully-taxable equivalent basis
(2)    Yield/       Yield/   
(dollar amounts in millions)  
Volume Rate  Total  Volume   Rate  Total 
 Loans and leases $ 136.7$ (94.5)$ 42.2$ 66.1 $ (108.7)$ (42.6)
 Investment securities  69.7 10.2 79.9 (3.7)2.0  (1.7)
 Other earning assets  (6.3) 0.2 (6.1) (16.8)(1.7) (18.5)
Total interest income from earning assets  200.1  (84.1)  116.0  45.6 (108.4)  (62.8)
 Deposits  5.2 (35.0)  (29.8)  1.0 (46.9)  (45.9)
 Short-term borrowings  1.5 ---  1.5  (0.3)(0.7)  (1.0)
 Long-term debt  30.1 (18.5) 11.6 (7.9) (9.0) (16.9)
Total interest expense of interest-bearing liabilities  36.8  (53.5)  (16.7)  (7.2)(56.6)  (63.8)
Net interest income $ 163.3$ (30.6)$ 132.7$ 52.8 $ (51.8)$ 1.0
(1)The change in interest rates due to both rate and volume has been allocated between the factors in proportion to the relationsh
ip of the 
absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. 
(2)Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
  34 
Table 5 - Consolidated Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Margin Analysis 
    
     
  Average Balances Fully-taxable equivalent basis (1) 
  Change from 2013 
  Change from 2012 
(dollar amounts in millions) 
 2014  AmountPercent 
 2013  AmountPercent2012 
Assets  Interest-bearing deposits in banks $ 85$ 1521% $ 70 $ (25)(26)%$95
Loans held for sale  323 (198)(38)  521  (566)(52) 1,087
Available-for-sale and other securities:       
 Taxable  6,785 4026  6,383  (1,515)(19) 7,898

 Tax-exempt  1,429 866154  563  13632 427
Total available-fo
r-sale and other securities 8,2141,268186,946  
(1,379)(17)8,325Trading account securities  46 (34)(43)  80  1319 67
Held-to-maturity securities - taxable 3,6121,457682,155  1,230133 925
Total securities 11,8722,691299,181  
(136)(1)9,317 Loans and leases: (2)             
  Commercial:             
   Commercial and industrial  18,342 1,1687  17,174  1,2308 15,944
   Commercial real estate:       
    Construction  728 14826  580  (2)--- 582

    Commercial  4,271 (178)(4)  4,449  (749)(14) 5,198
   Commercial real estate 4,999
(30)(1)5,029  
(751)(13)5,780  Total commercial 23,3411,138522,203  479221,724
  Consumer: 
     Automobile loans and leases 7,6701,991355,679  1,15325 4,526
   Home equity  8,395 851  8,310  (5)--- 8,315
   Residential mortgage  5,623 4258  5,198  8--- 5,190

   Other consumer  396 (40)(9)  436  (19)(4) 455
  Total consume
r 22,0842,4611319,623  1,137618,486
 Total loans and leases 45,4253,599941,826  1,616440,210
 Allowance for loan and lease losses  (638) 87(12)  (725) 151(17) (876)
Net loans and leases 44,7873,686941,101  1,767439,334
 Total earnin
g assets 57,7056,1071251,598  889250,709
Cash and due from banks 898
(10)(1)908  (182)(17)1,090Intangible assets  578 214  557  (43)(7) 600
All other assets  3,956 (5)---  3,961  (190)(5) 4,151
Total assets $ 62,499$ 6,20011% $ 56,299 $ 6251%$55,674
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity             
 Deposits:             
  Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing $ 13,988$ 1,1179% $ 12,871 $ 6716%$12,200

  Demand deposits - interest-bearing  5,896 411  5,855  441 5,811
  Total demand de
posits 19,8841,158618,726  715418,011
  Money market deposits  17,917 2,24214  15,675  1,77413 13,901
  Savings and other domestic deposits  5,031 2---  5,029  962 4,933
  Core certificates of deposit  3,315 (1,234)(27)  4,549  (1,672)(27) 6,221
 Total core de
posits 46,1472,168543,979  913243,066
 Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more  242 (64)(21)  306  (20)(6) 326
 Brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs  2,139 53333  1,606  161 1,590
 Deposits in foreign offices  375 298  346  (26)(7) 372
Total de
posits 48,9032,666646,237  883245,354
Short-term borrowings  2,761 1,35897  1,403  (194)(12) 1,597
Long-term debt  3,495 1,825109  1,670  (317)(16) 1,987
 Total interest-
bearing lia
bilities 41,1714,7321336,439  
(299)(1)36,738All other liabilities 1,070
(4)---1,074  911,065
Shareholders' equity  6,270 3556  5,915 
 2444 
 5,671Total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 62,499$ 6,20011% $ 56,299 $ 6251%$55,674
Continued 
              
  35 
Table 6 - Consolidated Avera
ge Balance Sheet and Net Interest Mar
gin Anal
ysis (Continued
)       
 Interest Income / Expense  Average Rate (2) 
Fully-taxable equivalent basis (1) 
   
         
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
201420132012  2014 20132012
Assets    
Interest-bearing deposits in banks $ 103$ 102$202 0.12 %0.15%0.21%
Loans held for sale  12,728 18,90536,769 3.94 3.63 3.38 
Securities:     
Available-for-sale and other securities:     
 Taxable  171,080 148,557184,340 2.52 2.33 2.33 

 Tax-exempt  44,562 25,66317,659 3.12 4.56 4.14 
Total available-fo
r-sale and other securities 215,642174,220201,999 2.63 2.512.43
Trading account securities 421355853 0.92 0.44 1.27 
Held-to-maturity securities - taxable 88,72450,21424,088 2.46 2.33 2.60 
Total securities 304,787224,789226,940 2.57 2.452.43
 Loans and leases: (2)         
  Commercial:         
   Commercial and industrial  643,484 643,731639,458 3.51 3.75 4.01 
   Commercial real estate:     
    Construction  31,414 23,44022,886 4.31 4.04 3.93 

    Commercial  163,192 182,622208,552 3.82 4.11 4.01 
   Commercial real estate 194,606206,062231,438 3.89 4.104.00
  Total commercial 838,090849,793870,896 3.59 3.834.01
  Consumer: 
   Automobile loans and leases 262,931221,469214,053 3.43 3.90 4.73 
   Home equity  343,281 345,379355,869 4.09 4.16 4.28 
   Residential mortgage  213,268 199,601212,661 3.79 3.84 4.10 

   Other consumer  28,824 27,93933,279 7.30 6.41 7.31 
  Total consume
r 848,304794,388815,862 3.84 4.054.41
 Total loans and leases 1,686,3941,644,1811,686,758 3.71 3.934.19
 Total earnin
g assets $2,004,012$1,887,977$1,950,669 3.47 %3.66%3.85%
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity         
 Deposits:         
  Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing $ ---$ ---$--- --- %---%---%

  Demand deposits - interest-bearing  2,272 2,5253,579 0.04 0.04 0.06 
  Total demand de
posits 2,2722,5253,579 0.01 0.010.02
  Money market deposits  42,156 38,83040,164 0.24 0.25 0.29 
  Savings and other domestic deposits  8,779 13,29218,928 0.17 0.26 0.38 
  Core certificates of deposit  26,998 50,54484,983 0.81 1.11 1.37 
 Total core de
posits 80,205105,191147,654 0.25 0.340.48
 Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more  1,036 1,4422,140 0.43 0.47 0.66 
 Brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs  4,728 9,10011,694 0.22 0.57 0.74 
 Deposits in foreign offices  483 508679 0.13 0.15 0.18 
Total de
posits 86,452116,241162,167 0.25 0.350.49
Short-term borrowings  2,940 1,4752,391 0.11 0.11 0.15 
Long-term debt  49,929 38,31355,181 1.43 2.29 2.78 
 Total interest-
bearing liabilities 139,321156,029219,739 0.34 0.430.60
Net interest income $ 1,864,691$ 1,731,948$1,730,930   
 Net interest rate sprea
d     3.13 3.23 3.25 
 Impact of noninterest-bearing funds on margin     0.10 0.13 0.16 
Net interest margin     3.23 %3.36%3.41%
(1)FTE yields are calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
   (2)For purposes of this analysis, nonaccrual loans are reflected in the average balances of loans. 
   
    36 
2014 vs. 2013 
  Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income for 2014 increased $132.7 million, or 8%, from 2013.  This reflected the impact of
 12% earning asset growth, partially offset by 13% interest-bearing liability growth and a 13 basis point decrease in the NIM to
 3.23%.   
 Average earning assets increased $6.1 billion, or 12%, from the prior year, driven by: 
  $2.7 billion, or 29%, increase in average securities, reflecting an increase of Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) Level 1 
qualified securities and direct purchase municipal instruments. 

  $2.0 billion, or 35%, increase in average Automobile loans, as originations remained strong. 
  $1.2 billion, or 7%, increase in average C&I loans and leases, primarily reflecting growth in trade finance in support of our 
middle market and corporate customers. 
  $0.4 billion, or 8%, increase in average Residential mortgage loans as a result of the Camco Financial acquisition and a 
decrease in the rate of payoffs due to lower levels of refinancing. 
 Average noninterest bearing deposits increased $1.1 billion, or 9%, while average interest-bearing liabilities increased $4.7 
billion, or 13%, from 2013, primarily reflecting: 
  $3.2 billion, or 104%, increase in short- and long-term borrowings, which are a cost effective method of funding incremental 
securities growth. 
   $2.2 billion, or 14%, increase in money market deposits, reflecting the strategic focus on customer growth and increased 
share-of-wallet among both consumer and commercial customers. 
  $0.5 billion, or 33%, increase in brokered deposits and negotiated CDs, which were used to efficiently finance balance sheet 
growth while continuing to manage the overall cost of funds. 
 Partially offset by:   $1.2 billion, or 27%, decrease in average core certificates of deposit due to the strategic focus on changing the funding 
sources to no-cost demand deposits and lower-cost money market deposits. 
 The primary items impacting the decrease in the NIM were: 
  19 basis point negative impact from the mix and yield on earning assets, primarily reflecting lower rates on loans, and the 
impact of an increased total securities balance. 
  3 basis point decrease in the benefit to the margin of non-interest bearing funds, reflecting lower interest rates on total int
erest bearing liabilities from the prior year. 
 Partially offset by:   9 basis point positive impact from the mix and yield of total interest-bearing liabilities, reflecting the strategic focus on 
changing the funding sources from higher rate time deposits to no-cost demand deposits and low-cost money market deposits. 
    37 
2013 vs. 2012 
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income
 for 2013 increased $1.0 million, or le
ss than 1%, from 2012.  This reflected the 
impact of 4% loan growth, a 5 basis point decrease in the NIM to 3.36%, as well as a 7% reduction in other earning assets, the 

majority of which were loans held for sale.  The primary items impacting the decrease in the NIM were: 
  19 basis point negative impact from the mix and yield of earning assets primarily reflecting a decrease in consumer loan 
yields.   3 basis point decrease in the benefit to the margin of non-interest bearing funds, reflecting lower interest rates on total int
erest bearing liabilities from the prior year.  
 
Partially offset by:   14 basis point positive impact from the mix and yield of deposits reflecting the strategic focus on changing the funding 
sources from higher rate time deposits to no-cost demand deposits and low-cost money market deposits. 
  3 basis point positive impact from noncore funding primarily reflecting lower debt costs.  
 Average earning assets increased $0.9 billion, or 2%, from the prior year, driven by: 
  $1.2 billion, or 8%, increase in average C&I loans and leases.  This reflected the continued growth within the middle market 
healthcare vertical, equipment finance, and dealer floorplan. 
  $1.2 billion, or 25%, increase in average on balance sheet automobile loans, as the growth in originations remained strong 
and our investments in the Northeast and upper Midwest continued to grow as planned.  
 Partially offset by:   $0.8 billion, or 13%, decrease in average CRE loans, as acceptable returns for new originations were balanced against 
internal concentration limits and increased competition for projects sponsored by high quality developers.  
  $0.6 billion, or 52%, decrease in loans held-for-sale reflecting the impact of automobile loan securitizations completed in 
2012. 
 While there was minimal impact on the full-year average balance sheet, $1.9 billion of net investment securities were purchased
 during the 2013 fourth quarter.  Our investment securities portfolio is evaluated under established asset/liability management 
objectives. Additionally, $0.6 billion of direct purchase municipal instruments were reclassified on December 31, 2013, from C&
I loans to available-for-sale securities.  Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased $0.7 billion, or 6%, while average interest-bearing liabilities decreased $0.3 
billion, or 1%, from 2012, primarily reflecting: 
  $1.7 billion, or 27%, decrease in average core certificates of deposit due to the strategic focus on changing the funding 
sources to no-cost demand deposits and low-cost money market deposits. 
  $0.6 billion, or 47%, decrease in short-term borrowings due to a focused effort to reduce collateralized deposits. 
 Partially offset by:   $1.8 billion, or 13%, increase in money market deposits reflecting the strategic focus on customer growth and increased share 
of wallet among both consumer and commercial customers. 
 While there was minimal impact on the full-year average balance sheet, average subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
reflect the issuance of $0.5 billion and $0.8 billion of long-term debt in the 2013 fourth quarter and the 2013 third quarter, 
respectively.      38 
Provision for Credit Losses 
(This section should be read in conjunction with the Credit Risk section.)
  The provision for credit losses is the expense necessary to maintain the ALLL and the AULC at levels appropriate to absorb our 
estimate of credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio and the portfolio of unfunded loan commitments and letters-of-credit.
  The provision for credit losses in 2014 was $81.0 million, down $9.1 million, or 10%, from 2013, reflecting a $64.0 million, or
 34%, decrease in NCOs.  The provision for credit losses in 2014 was $43.6 million less than total NCOs. 
 
The provision for credit losses in 2013 was $90.0 million, down $57.3 million, or 39%, from 2012, reflecting a $153.8 million, 
or 
45%, decrease in NCOs.  The provision for credit losses in 2013 was $98.6 million less than total NCOs.   
 Noninterest Income 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Item 6.) 
 The following table reflects noninterest income for the past three years:
  Table 7 - Noninterest Income 
              
  Twelve Months Ended December 31, 
   
 Change from 2013   Change from 2012   
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 Amount Percent 2013 Amount Percent 2012 
 Service charges on deposit accounts  $ 273,741$ 1,9391% $271,802$9,623 4% $262,179
 Trust services   115,972 (7,035)(6)  123,007 1,110 1  121,897
 Electronic banking  105,401 12,81014  92,591 10,301 13  82,290

 Mortgage banking income  84,887 (41,968)(33)  126,855 (64,237)(34)  191,092
 Brokerage income  68,277 (1,347)(2)  69,624 (3,060)(4)  72,684
 Insurance income  65,473 (3,791)(5)  69,264 (2,055)(3)  71,319

 Bank owned life insurance income  57,048 6291  56,419 377 1  56,042
 Capital markets fees  43,731 (1,489)(3) 45,220 (2,940)(6)  48,160
 Gain on sale of loans  21,091 2,92016  18,171 (40,011)(69)  58,182
 Securities gains (losses)  17,554 17,1364,100 418 (4,351)(91)  4,769

 Other income   126,004 (12,821)(9)  138,825 1,118 1  137,707
Total noninterest income  $ 979,179$ (33,017)(3)% $1,012,196$(94,125)(9)% $1,106,321
                
 2014 vs. 2013 
  Noninterest income decreased $33.0 million, or 3%, from the prior year, primarily reflecting: 
  $42.0 million, or 33%, decrease in mortgage banking income primarily driven by a $27.7 million, or 33%, reduction in 
origination and secondary marketing revenue as originations decreased and gain-on-sale margins compressed, and a $14.2 
million negative impact from net MSR hedging activity.  
  $12.8 million, or 9%, decrease in other income primarily due to a decrease in LIHTC gains and lower fees associated with 
commercial loan activity.   $7.0 million, or 6%, decrease in trust services primarily due to a reduction in fees. 
 Partially offset by:   $17.1 million increase in securities gains as we adjusted the mix of our securities portfolio to prepare for the LCR 
requirements. 
  $12.8 million, or 14%, increase in electronic banking income due to higher card related income and underlying customer 
growth.  
    39 
2013 vs. 2012 
 Noninterest income decreased $94.1 million, or 9%, from the prior year, primarily reflecting: 
  $64.2 million, or 34%, decrease in mortgage banking income primarily driven by 9% reduction in volume, lower gain on sale 
margin, and a higher percentage of originations held on the balance sheet. 

  $40.0 million, or 69%, decrease in gain on sale of loans as no auto loan securitizations occurred in 2013 compared to $2.3 
billion of auto loan securitizations in 2012. 
  $4.4 million, or 91%, decrease in securities gains as the prior year had certain securities designated as available-for-sale th
at were sold and the proceeds from those sales were reinvested into the held-to-maturity portfolio.  
 Partially offset by:   $10.3 million, or 13%, increase in electronic banking income due to continued consumer household growth. 
  $9.6 million, or 4%, increase in service charges on deposit accounts reflecting 8% consumer household and 6% commercial 
relationship growth and changing customer usage patterns.  This more than offset the approximately $28.0 million negative 
impact of the February 2013 implementation of a new posting order for consumer transaction accounts. 
   $1.1 million, or 1%, increase in other income. In accordance with ASC 323-740, the low income housing tax credit 
investment amortization expense is now presented as a component of provision for income taxes. Previously, the 
amortization expense was included in other income. This change resulted in higher other income. In addition, there was an 
increase in fees associated with commercial loan activity. These increases were partially offset by an $11.2 million bargain 
purchase gain associated with the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank acquisition in the prior year. 
 40 
Noninterest Expense 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Items 1, 2, 3 and 4.) 
 The following table reflects noninterest expense for the past three years: 
 Table 8 - Noninterest Expense 
               
  Twelve Months Ended December 31, 
   
 Change from 2013  Change from 2012  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 Amount Percent 2013 Amount Percent 2012 
 Personnel costs $1,048,775$47,1385%  $1,001,637$13,444 1% $988,193
 Outside data processing and other services  212,586 13,0397   199,547 9,292 5  190,255
 Net occupancy  128,076 2,7322   125,344 14,184 13  111,160
 Equipment  119,663 12,87012   106,793 3,846 4  102,947
 Professional services  59,555 18,96847   40,587 (25,171)(38)  65,758
 Marketing  50,560 (625)(1)   51,185 (13,078)(20)  64,263

 Deposit and other insurance expense  49,044 (1,117)(2)   50,161 (18,169)(27)  68,330

 Amortization of intangibles  39,277 (2,087)(5)   41,364 (5,185)(11)  46,549
 Gain on early extinguishment of debt  --- ------   --- 798 (100)  (798)
 Other expense  174,810 33,42524   141,385 (57,834)(29)  199,219
Total noninterest expense $1,882,346$124,3437%  $1,758,003$(77,873)(4)% $1,835,876
Number of employees (average full-time 
equivalent)  11,873 (91)(1)%   11,964 470 4%  11,494
      
 Impacts of Significant Items:                  
  Twelve Months Ended December 31,            
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 2012            
Personnel costs  $ 19,850
  $)27,249($ 
---
            
Outside data processing and other services  5,507
   1,350
  ---
            
Net occupanc
y   11,153
   12,117
  ---
            
Equipment   2,248
   2,364
  ---
         
Professional services   2,228
    ---
  ---
            
Marketing   1,357
    ---
  ---
            
Other expense   23,140
   953
 23,500
            
Total noninterest expense adjustments $ 65,483
  $)10,465($23,500
            
          
Adjusted Noninterest Expense (Non-GAAP):                 
  Twelve Months Ended December 31,  Change from 2013  Change from 2012 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 2012  Amount  Percent  Amount Percent 
Personnel costs  $ 1,028,925
 $1,028,886
 $988,193
 $ 
39   ---
  %$40,693
 4 %Outside data processing and other services  207,079
  198,197
 190,255
  8,882
  4    7,942
 4  Net occupanc
y   116,923
  113,227
 111,160
  3,696
  3    2,067
 2  Equipment   117,415
  104,429
 102,947
  12,986
  12    1,482
 1  Professional services   57,327
  40,587
 65,758
  16,740
  41    )25,171()38( Marketing   49,203
  51,185
 64,263
  )1,982
( )4(   )13,078()20( Deposit and other insurance expense  49,044
  50,161
 68,330
  )1,117
( )2(   )18,169()27( Amortization of intangibles   39,277
  41,364
 46,549
  )2,087
( )5(   )5,185
()11( Gain on early extinguishment of debt   
---
   ---
 )798
(  ---
   ---
    798
 )100
( Other expense   151,670
  140,432
 175,719
  11,238
  8    )35,287()20( Total adjusted noninterest expense $ 1,816,863
 $1,768,468
 $1,812,376
 $ 
48,395
  3  %$)
43,908()2(%    41 
2014 vs. 2013
  Noninterest expense increased $124.3 million, or 7%, from 2013: 
  $47.1 million, or 5%, increase in personnel costs. Excluding the impact of significant items, personnel costs were relatively 
unchanged.  
  $33.4 million, or 24%, increase in other noninterest expense.  Excluding the impact of significant items, other noninterest 
expense increased $11.2 million, or 8%, due to an increase in state franchise taxes, protective advances, and litigation 
expense.  
  $19.0 million, or 47%, increase in professional services.  Excluding the impact of significant items, professional services 
increased $16.7 million, or 41%, reflecting an increase in outside consultant expenses related to strategic planning and legal 
services. 

  $13.0 million, or 7%, increase in outside data processing and other services.  Excluding the impact of significant items, 
outside data processing and other services increased $8.9 million, or 4%, primarily reflecting higher debit and credit card 

processing costs and increased other technology investment expense, as we continue to invest in technology supporting our 
products, services, and our Continuous Improvement initiatives. 
  $12.9 million, or 12%, increase in equipment.  Excluding the impact of significant items, equipment increased $13.0 million, 
or 12%, primarily reflecting higher depreciation expense. 
 2013 vs. 2012
 Noninterest expense decreased $77.9 million, or 4%, from 2012, and primarily reflected: 
  $57.8 million, or 29%, decline in other expense, reflecting a reduction in litigation expense, mortgage repurchases and 
warranty expense, OREO and foreclosure costs, and reduction in operating lease expense. 

  $25.2 million, or 38%, decrease in professional services, reflecting a decrease in outside consultant expenses and legal 
services, primarily collections. 

  $18.2 million, or 27%, decrease in 
deposit and other insurance expense 
due to lower insurance premiums. 
  $13.1 million, or 20%, decrease in marketing, primarily reflecting lower levels of advertising, and reduced promotional 
offers. 

  $5.2 million, or 11%, decrease due to the continued amortization of core deposit intangibles.  
 Partially offset by:   $14.2 million, or 13%, increase in net occupancy expense, reflecting $12.1 million of franchise repositioning expense related 
to branch consolidation and facilities optimization. 
  $13.4 million, or 1%, increase in personnel costs, primarily reflecting the $38.8 million increase in salaries due to a 4% 
increase in the number of average full-time equivalent employees as employee count increased mainly in technology and 
consumer areas and $6.7 million of franchise repositioning expense related to branch consolidation and severance expenses.  
This was partially offset by the $33.9 million one-time, non-cash gain related to the pension curtailment. 
  $9.3 million, or 5%, increase in outside data processing as we continue to invest in technology supporting our products, 
services, and our Continuous Improvement initiatives. 
  $3.9 million, or 4%, increase in equipment, including $2.4 million of branch consolidation and facilities optimization related 
expenses. 
   42 
Provision for Income Taxes 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Item 5, and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Stateme
nts.) 
  2014 versus 2013 
 The provision for income taxes was $220.6 million for 2014 compared with a provision for income taxes of $227.5 million in 2013
. Both years included the benefits from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, general business credits, and the change i
n accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects.  In 2014, a $26.9 million reduction in the 2014 provision 
for federal 
income taxes was recorded for the portion of federal deferred tax assets related to capital loss carryforwards that are more li
kely than not to be realized compared to a $93.3 million increase in 2013.  
In 2014, a $7.4 million reduction in the 2014 provision for state
 income 
taxes, net of federal, was recorded for the portion of state deferred tax assets and state net operating loss carryforwards tha
t are more 
likely than not to be realized, compared to a $6.0 million reduction in 2013.  At December 31, 2014, we had a net federal defer
red tax asset of $72.1 million and a net state deferred tax asset of $45.3 million.  For regulatory capital purposes, there was no disa
llowed net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.  
 We file income tax returns with the IRS and various state, city, and foreign jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits have been
 completed for tax years through 2009. In the first quarter of 2013, the IRS began an examination of our 2010 and 2011 consolida
ted federal income tax returns.  Certain proposed adjustments resulting from the IRS examination of our 2005 through 2009 tax retur
ns have been settled with the IRS Appeals Office, subject to final approval by the Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congres
s. Various state and other jurisdictions remain open to examination, including Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylvania, We
st Virginia and Illinois.   
 2013 versus 2012 
 The provision for income taxes was $227.5 million for 2013 compared with a provision for income taxes of $202.3 million in 2012
. Both years included the benefits from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, general business credits, and the change i
n accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects.  In 2013, a $93.3 million increase in the 2013 provision f
or federal 
income taxes was recorded for the portion of federal capital loss carryforward deferred tax asset that are more likely than not
 to be realized compared to $3.0 million in 2012.  In 2013, a $6.0 million reduction in the 2013 provision for state income taxes, net
 of federal, 
was recorded for the portion of state deferred tax assets and state net operating loss carryforwards that are more likely than 
not to be realized, compared to a $21.3 million reduction in 2012.   
 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL 
 A comprehensive discussion of risk management and capital matters affecting us can be found in the Risk Governance section 
included in Item 1A and the Regulatory Matters section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. 
 Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control credit, market, liquidity, operational, and compliance risks 
are 
described in the following paragraphs. 
 Credit Risk  
 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a counterparty is not able to meet the agreed upon terms of the financial obligati
on. The 
majority of our credit risk is associated with lending activities, as the acceptance and management of credit risk is central t
o profitable lending.  We also have credit risk associated with our AFS and HTM securities portfolios 
(see Note 4 and Note 5 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements)
.  We engage with other financial counterparties for a variety of purposes including investing, 
asset and liability management, mortgage banking, and trading activities.  While there is credit risk associated with derivativ
e activity, we believe this exposure is minimal.   
 
We continue to focus on the identification, monitoring, and managing of our credit risk.  In addition to the traditional credit
 risk 
mitigation strategies of credit policies and processes, market risk management activities, and portfolio diversification, we us
e additional quantitative measurement capabilities utilizing external data sources, enhanced use of modeling technology, and inte
rnal 
stress testing processes.  Our portfolio management resources demonstrate our commitment to maintaining an aggregate moderate-t
o-low risk profile.  In our efforts to continue to identify risk mitigation techniques, we have focused on product design feature
s, origination policies, and treatment strategies for delinquent or stressed borrowers.  
   43 
The maximum level of credit exposure to individual credit borrowers is limited by policy guidelines based on the perceived risk
 of each borrower or related group of borrowers.  All authority to grant commitments is delegated through the independent credit
 administration function and is closely monitored and regularly updated.  Concentration risk is managed through limits on loan t
ype, geography, industry, and loan quality factors.  We focus predominantly on extending credit to retail and commercial customers w
ith existing or expandable relationships within our primary banking markets, although we will consider lending opportunities outsid
e our primary markets if we believe the associated risks are acceptable and aligned with strategic initiatives.  Although we offer a 
broad set 
of products, we continue to develop new lending products and opportunities.  Each of these new products and opportunities goes 
through a rigorous development and approval process prior to implementation to ensure our overall objective of maintaining an 
aggregate moderate-to-low risk portfolio profile.  
 The checks and balances in the credit process and the separation of the credit administration and risk management functions are
 designed to appropriately assess and sanction the level of credit risk being accepted, facilitate the early recognition of cred
it problems 
when they occur, and to provide for effective problem asset management and resolution.  For example, we do not extend additiona
l credit to delinquent borrowers except in certain circumstances that substantially improve our overall repayment or collateral c
overage 
position.   
 Our asset quality indicators reflected continued overall improvement of our credit quality performance in 2014. 

 Loan and Lease Credit Exposure Mix 
 At December 31, 2014, our loans and leases totaled $47.7 billion, representing a $4.6 billion, or 11%, increase compared to $43
.1 
billion at December 31, 2013.  The majority of the portfolio growth occurred in the Automobile and C&I portfolios.  Huntington 
remained committed to a high quality origination strategy.  The CRE portfolio remained relatively consistent, as a result of co
ntinued 
runoff offset by new production within the requirements associated with achieving an acceptable return, our internal concentrat
ion 
limits and increased competition for projects sponsored by high quality developers. 
 
Total commercial loans and leases were $24.2 billion at December 31, 2014, and represented 51% of our total loan and lease 
credit exposure.  Our commercial loan portfolio is diversified along product type, customer size, and geography within our foot
print, 
and is comprised of the following (
see Commercial Credit discussion)
:   
 C&I
 Œ C&I loans and leases are made to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital 
needs, equipment purchases, or other projects.  The majority of these borrowers are customers doing business within our geograp
hic 
regions.  C&I loans and leases are generally underwritten individually and secured with the assets of the company and/or the pe
rsonal 
guarantee of the business owners.  The financing of owner occupied facilities is considered a C&I loan even though there is imp
roved 
real estate as collateral.  This treatment is a result of the credit decision process, which focuses on cash flow from operatio
ns of the 
business to repay the debt.  The operation, sale, rental, or refinancing of the real estate is not considered the primary repay
ment source 
for these types of loans.  As we have expanded our C&I portfolio, we have developed a series of ﬁvertical specialtiesﬂ to ensur
e that 
new products or lending types are embedded within a structured, centralized Commercial Lending area with designated experienced
 credit officers. These specialties are comprised of either targeted industries (for example, Healthcare, Food & Agribusiness, E
nergy, etc) and/or lending disciplines (Equipment Finance, ABL, etc), a
ll of which requires a high degree of expertise and oversight t
o effectively mitigate and monitor risk. As such, we have dedicated colleagues and teams focused on bringing value added expertis
e to these specialty clients. 
 CRE Œ CRE loans consist of loans to developers and REITs supporting income-producing or for-sale commercial real estate 
properties.  We mitigate our risk on these loans by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount and underwriting th
e loan 
with projected cash flow in excess of the debt service requirement.  These loans are made to finance properties such as apartme
nt buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers, and are repaid through cash flows related to the opera
tion, sale, or refinance of the property.   
 Construction CRE 
 Œ Construction CRE loans are loans to developers, companies, or individuals used for the construction of a 
commercial or residential property for which repayment will be generated by the sale or permanent financing of the property.  O
ur 
construction CRE portfolio primarily consists of retail, multi family, office, and warehouse project types.  Generally, these l
oans are 
for construction projects that have been presold or preleased, or have secured permanent financing, as well as loans to real es
tate companies with significant equity invested in each project.  These loans are underwritten and managed by a specialized real est
ate lending group that actively monitors the construction phase and manages the loan disbursements according to the predetermined 

construction schedule.      44 
 Total consumer loans and leases were $23.4 billion at December 31, 2014, and represented 49% of our total loan and lease credit
 exposure.  The consumer portfolio is comprised primarily of automobile, home equity loans and lines-of-credit, and residential 

mortgages 
(see Consumer Credit discussion)
. The increase from December 31, 2013 primarily relates to strong consumer demand for 
automobile originations and adjustable rate residential mortgages (ARMs).   
 Automobile Œ Automobile loans are comprised primarily of loans made through automotive dealerships and include exposure in 
selected states outside of our primary banking markets.  The exposure outside of our primary banking markets represents 19% of 
the 
total exposure, with no individual state representing more than 6%.   Applications are underwritten utilizing an automated 

underwriting system that applies consistent policies and processes across the portfolio.   

 Home equity
 Œ Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines-of-credit.  This type of lending, which is secured 
by a first-lien or junior-lien on the borrower™s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home or refi
nance 
existing mortgage debt.  Products include closed-end loans which are generally fixed-rate with principal and interest payments,
 and variable-rate, interest-only lines-of-credit which do not require payment of principal during the 10-year revolving period.  Th
e home 
equity line of credit may convert to a 20-year amortizing structure at the end of the revolving period.  Applications are under
written centrally in conjunction with an automated underwriting system.  The home equity underwriting criteria is based on minimum cred
it scores, debt-to-income ratios, and LTV ratios, with current collateral valuations.  
  
Residential mortgage
 Œ Residential mortgage loans represent loans to co
nsumers for the purchase or refinance of a residence.  
These loans are generally financed over a 15-year to 30-year term, and in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance thei
r primary residence.  Applications are underwritten centrally using consistent credit policies and processes.  All residential mo
rtgage 
loan decisions utilize a full appraisal for collateral valuation.  Huntington has not originated or acquired residential mortga
ges that allow negative amortization or allow the borrower multiple payment options. 
 
Other consumer 
 Œ Primarily consists of consumer loans not secured by real estate, including personal unsecured loans, overdraft 
balances, and credit cards.  We introduced a consumer credit card product during 2013, utilizing a centralized underwriting sys
tem and 
focusing on existing Huntington customers. 
 
The table below provides the composition of our total loan and lease portfolio: 
 Table 9 - Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition 
   
   At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions) 
2014 2013 2012  2011 2010 
Commercial:
(1)           
 Commercial and industrial $19,033 40%$17,59441%$16,97142% $14,699 38 %$13,06334%
 Commercial real estate:           
  Construction  875 2  5571  6482  580 1   6502 
  Commercial  4,322 9  4,29310  4,75112  5,246 13   6,00116 
 Total commercial real estate  5,197 11 4,85011 5,39914  5,826 14   6,65118 
Total commercial  24,230 51  22,44452  22,37056  20,525 52   19,71452 
Consumer:           
 Automobile
(2)  8,690 18  6,63915  4,63411  4,458 11   5,61415 
 Home equity  
8,491 18  
8,33619  
8,33520  
8,215 21   
7,71320 
 Residential mortgage  5,831 12  5,32112  4,97012  5,228 13   4,50012 
 Other consumer  
414 1  
3802  
4191  
498 3   
5661 
Total consumer  23,426 49  20,67648  18,35844  18,399 48   18,39348 
Total loans and leases $47,656 100%$43,120100%$40,728100% $38,924 100 %$38,107100%
 (1) As defined by regulatory guidance, there were no commercial loans outstanding that would be considered a concentration of l
ending 
to a particular industry or group of industries. 
 (2) 2011 included a decrease of $1.3 billion resulting from the transfer of automobile loans to loans held for a sale reflectin
g an 
automobile securitization transaction completed in 2012.  2010 included an increase of $0.5 billion resulting from the adoption
 of a 
new accounting standard to consolidate a previously off-balance sheet automobile loan securitization transaction. 
    45 
 As shown in the table above, our loan portfolio is diversified by consumer and commercial credit. At the corporate level, we 
manage the credit exposure in part via a credit concentration policy.  The policy designates specific loan types, collateral ty
pes, and 
loan structures to be formally tracked and assigned limits as a percentage of capital.  C&I lending by NAICS categories, specif
ic limits 
for CRE primary project types, loans secured by residential real estate,
 shared national credit exposure, and designated high r
isk loan 
definitions represent examples of specifically tracked components of our concentration management process.  Currently there are
 no 
identified concentrations that exceed the established limit. Our concentration management process is approved by our board leve
l Risk 
Oversight Committee and is one of the strategies utilized to ensure a high quality, well diversified portfolio that is consiste
nt with our overall objective of maintaining an aggregate moderate-to-low risk profile. 
 The table below provides our total loan and lease portfolio segregated by the type of collateral securing the loan or lease.  T
he changes in the collateral composition are consistent with the portfolio growth metrics, with increases noted in the residential
 and 
vehicle categories.  The increase in the unsecured exposure is centered in high quality commercial credit customers. 
 Table 10 - Loan and Lease Portfolio by Collateral Type 
    At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions) 
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Secured loans:                      Real estate - commercial 
$8,631 
18 % $8,62220% $9,12822% $9,557 
25 % $10,38927%  Real estate - consumer 
14,322 
30  13,65732 13,30533 13,444 
35  12,21432  Vehicles 
10,932 
23  8,98921 6,65916 6,021 
15  7,13419  Receivables/Inventory 
5,968 
13  5,53413 5,17813 4,450 
11  3,76310  Machinery/Equipment 
3,863 
8  2,7386 2,7497 1,994 
5  1,7665  Securities/Deposits 
 964 2   7862  8262  800 2   7342  Other  919 2   1,0162  1,0903  1,018 
3   9902 Total secured loans and leases 
45,599 
96  41,34296 38,93596 37,284 
96  36,99097 Unsecured loans and leases 
 2,057 
4   1,7784  1,7934  1,640 
4   1,1173 Total loans and leases 
$47,656 
100 % $43,120100% $40,728100% $38,924 
100 % $38,107100%  Commercial Credit 
 The primary factors considered in commercial credit approvals are the financial strength of the borrower, assessment of the 
borrower™s management capabilities, cash flows from operations, industry sector trends, type and sufficiency of collateral, typ
e of exposure, transaction structure, and the general economic outlook.  While these are the primary factors considered, there are a
 number 
of other factors that may be considered in the decision process.  We utilize a centralized preview and senior loan approval com
mittee, led by our chief credit officer.  The risk rating 
(see next paragraph) 
and complexity of the credit determines the threshold for approval 
of the senior loan committee with a minimum credit exposure of $10.0 million.   For loans not requiring senior loan committee 
approval, with the exception of small business loans, credit officers who understand each local region and are experienced in t
he industries and loan structures of the requested credit exposure are involved in all loan decisions and have the primary credit 
authority.  
For small business loans, we utilize a centralized loan approval process for standard products and structures.  In this central
ized decision environment, certain individuals who understand each local region may make credit-extension decisions to preserve our 
commitment to the communities we operate in.  In addition to disciplined and consistent judgmental factors, a sophisticated cre
dit scoring process is used as a primary evaluation tool in the determination of approving a loan within the centralized loan appro
val process.  
  In commercial lending, on-going credit management is dependent on the type and nature of the loan. We monitor all significant 
exposures on an on-going basis.  All commercial credit extensions are assigned internal risk ratings reflecting the borrower™s 
PD and 
LGD. This two-dimensional rating methodology provides granularity 
in the portfolio management process. The PD is rated and 
applied at the borrower level. The LGD is rated and applied based on the specific type of credit extension and the quality and 
lien position associated with the underlying collateral.  The internal risk ratings are assessed at origination and updated at each 
periodic 
monitoring event. There is also extensive macro portfolio management analysis on an on-going basis.  We continually review and 
adjust our risk-rating criteria based on actual experience, which provides us with the current risk level in the portfolio and 
is the basis 
for determining an appropriate allowance for credit losses (ACL) amount for the commercial portfolio.  A centralized portfolio 

management team monitors and reports on the performance of the entire commercial portfolio, including small business loans, to 
provide consistent oversight.   
    46 
In addition to the initial credit analysis conducted during the approval process, our Credit Review group performs testing to 
provide an independent review and assessment of the quality and 
risk of new loan originations.  This group is part of our Risk 
Management area, and conducts portfolio reviews on a risk-based cycle to evaluate individual loans, validate risk ratings, as w
ell as test the consistency of credit processes.   
 Our standardized loan grading system considers many components that directly correlate to loan quality and likelihood of 
repayment, one of which is guarantor support.  On an annual basis, or more frequently if warranted, we consider, among other th
ings, 
the guarantor™s reputation and creditworthiness, along with various key financial metrics such as liquidity and net worth, assu
ming 
such information is available.  Our assessment of the guarantor™s credit strength, or lack thereof, is reflected in our risk ra
tings for such loans, which is directly tied to, and an integral component of, our ACL methodology.  When a loan goes to impaired status,
 viable guarantor support is considered in the determination of a credit loss.   
 If our assessment of the guarantor™s credit strength yields an inherent capacity to perform, we will seek repayment from the 
guarantor as part of the collection process and have done so successfully.  However, we do not formally track the repayment suc
cess 
from guarantors. 
 Substantially all loans categorized as Classified 
(see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements)
 are managed by our 
Special Assets Department (SAD).  The SAD group is a specialized group of credit professionals that handle the day-to-day 
management of workouts, commercial recoveries, and problem loan sales.  Its responsibilities include developing and implementin
g action plans, assessing risk ratings, and determining the appropriateness of the allowance, the accrual status, and the ultimat
e collectability of the Classified loan portfolio.   
 C&I PORTFOLIO  The C&I portfolio is comprised of loans to businesses where the source of repayment is associated with the on-going operations 
of the business.  Generally, the loans are secured by the borrower™s assets, such as equipment, accounts receivable, and/or inv
entory.  
In many cases, the loans are secured by real estate, although the operation, sale, or refinancing of the real estate is not a p
rimary source 
of repayment for the loan.  For loans secured by real estate, appropriate appraisals are obtained at origination and updated on
 an as 
needed basis in compliance with regulatory requirements.  
 
Currently, higher-risk segments of the C&I portfolio include loans to borrowers supporting the home building industry, 
contractors, and leveraged lending.  We manage the risks inherent in this portfolio through origination policies, a defined loa
n concentration policy with established limits, on-going loan level reviews and portfolio level reviews, recourse requirements, a
nd 
continuous portfolio risk management activities.  Our origination policies for this portfolio include loan product-type specifi
c policies 
such as LTV and debt service coverage ratios, as applicable.   
 The C&I portfolio continues to have strong origination activity as evidenced by the growth over the past 12 months.  The credit
 quality of the portfolio remains strong as we maintain a focus on high quality originations.  Problem loans have trended downwa
rd 
over the last several years, reflecting a combination of proactive risk identification and effective workout strategies impleme
nted by the SAD.  We continue to maintain a proactive approach to identifying borrowers that may be facing financial difficulty in orde
r to 
maximize the potential solutions. 
 CRE PORTFOLIO  
We manage the risks inherent in this portfolio specific to CRE lending, focusing on the quality of the developer and the specif
ics associated with each project.  Generally, we:  (1) limit our loans to 80% of the appraised value of the commercial real estate 
at origination, (2) require net operating cash fl
ows to be 125% of required interest and pri
ncipal payments, an
d (3) if the commer
cial real estate is nonowner occupied, require that at least 50% of the space of the project be preleased.  We actively monitor both geog
raphic 
and project-type concentrations and performance metrics of all CRE loan types, with a focus on loans identified as higher risk 
based on the risk rating methodology.  Both macro-level and loan-level stress-test scenarios based on existing and forecast market co
nditions are part of the on-going portfolio management process for the CRE portfolio. 

 Dedicated real estate professionals originate and manage the majority of the portfolio, with the remainder obtained from prior 
bank acquisitions.  The portfolio is diversified by project type and loan size, and this diversification represents a significa
nt portion of the credit risk management strategies employed for this portfolio.  Subsequent to the origination of the loan, the Credit Revie
w group 
provides an independent review and assessment of the quality of the underwriting and risk of new loan originations.   
    47 
Appraisal values are obtained in conjunction with all originations and renewals, and on an as needed basis, in compliance with 
regulatory requirements.  Appraisals are obtained from approved vendors, and are reviewed by an internal appraisal review group
 comprised of certified appraisers to ensure the quality of the valuation used in the underwriting process.  We continue to perf
orm on-
going portfolio level reviews within the CRE portfolio.  These reviews generate action plans based on occupancy levels or sales
 volume associated with the projects being reviewed.  Property values are updated using appraisals on a regular basis to ensure 

appropriate decisions regarding the on-going management of the portfolio reflect the changing market conditions.  This highly 
individualized process requires working closely with all of our borr
owers, as well as an in-depth knowledge of CRE project lend
ing 
and the market environment.  
 Consumer Credit  Consumer credit approvals are based on, among other factors, the financial strength and payment history of the borrower, type o
f exposure, and the transaction structure.  Consumer credit decisions are generally made in a centralized environment utilizing d
ecision models.  Importantly, certain individuals who understand each local region have the authority to make credit extension decision
s to preserve our focus on the local communities we operate in.  Each 
credit extension is assigned a specific PD and LGD. The PD is 
generally based on the borrower™s most recent credit bureau score (FICO), which we update quarterly, while the LGD is related t
o the 
type of collateral and the LTV ratio associated with the credit extension.   
 In consumer lending, credit risk is managed from a segment (i.e., loan type, collateral position, geography, etc.) and vintage 
performance analysis. All portfolio segments are continuously monitored for changes in delinquency trends and other asset quali
ty indicators.   We make extensive use of portfolio assessment models to continuously monitor the quality of the portfolio, which 
may 
result in changes to future origination strategies.  The on-going analysis and review process results in a determination of an 
appropriate ALLL amount for our consumer loan portfolio.  The independent risk management group has a consumer process review 
component to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the consumer credit processes.   
 
Collection action is initiated as needed through a centrally managed collection and 
recovery function. The collection group 
employs a series of collection methodologies designed to maintain a high level of effectiveness while maximizing efficiency. In
 addition to the consumer loan portfolio, the collection group is responsible for collection activity on all sold and securitize
d consumer 
loans and leases.  Collection practices include a single contact point for the majority of the residential real estate secured 
portfolios.    
 
AUTOMOBILE PORTFOLIO 
 Our strategy in the automobile portfolio continues to focus on high quality borrowers as measured by both FICO and internal 
custom scores, combined with appropriate LTVs, terms, and profitability.  Our strategy and operational capabilities allow us to
 appropriately manage the origination quality across the entire portfolio, including our newer markets.  Although increased orig
ination volume and entering new markets can be associated with increased risk levels, we believe our disciplined strategy and operation
al processes significantly mitigate these risks. 

 We have continued to consistently execute our value proposition and take advantage of available market opportunities.  
Importantly, we have maintained our high credit quality standards while expanding the portfolio.   
 RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE SECURED PORTFOLIOS 
 The properties securing our residential mortgage and home equity portfolios are primarily located within our geographic footpri
nt. 
Huntington continues to support our local markets with consistent underwriting across all residential secured products.  The 

residential-secured portfolio originations continue to be of high quality, with the majority of the negative credit impact comi
ng from 
loans originated in 2006 and earlier.  Our portfolio management strategies associated with our Home Savers group allow us to fo
cus 
on effectively helping our customers with appropriate solutions for their specific circumstances. 

   48 
 Table 11 - Selected Home Equity and Residential Mortgage Portfolio Data 
   (dollar amounts in millions) 
         Home Equity Residential Mortgage  Secured by first-lien 
Secured by junior-lien  
 December 31, 
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Ending balance 
$5,129  $4,842  $3,362  $3,494  $5,831  $5,321  
Portfolio weighted average LTV ratio
(1) 71% 71% 81% 81% 74% 74% 
Portfolio weighted average FICO score
(2) 759 758 752 741 752 743 
       
 Home Equity Residential Mortgage (3) 
 Secured by first-lien Secured by junior-lien  
 Year Ended December 31, 
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 
Originations 
$1,566  $1,745  $872  $529  $1,192  $1,625  
Origination weighted average LTV ratio
(1) 74% 69% 83% 81% 83% 79% 
Origination weighted average FICO score
(2) 775 771 765 756 752 757 
(1) The LTV ratios for home equity loans and home equity lines-of-credit are cumulative and reflect the balance of any senior l
oans.  LTV ratios 
reflect collateral values at the time of loan origination. 
(2) Portfolio weighted average FICO scores reflect currently updated customer credit scores whereas origination weighted averag
e FICO scores 
reflect the customer credit scores at the time of loan origination. 
(3) Represents only owned-portfolio originations. 
 Home Equity Portfolio 
 Our home equity portfolio (loans and lines-of-credit) consists of both first-lien and junior-lien mortgage loans with underwrit
ing criteria based on minimum credit scores, debt-to-income ratios, and LTV ratios.  We offer closed-end home equity loans which ar
e generally fixed-rate with principal and interest payments, and variable-rate interest-only home equity lines-of-credit which do
 not 
require payment of principal during the 10-year revolving period of the line-of-credit.  Applications are underwritten centrall
y in 
conjunction with an automated underwriting system.    
 
Given the low interest rate environment over the past several years, many borrowers have utilized the line-of-credit home equit
y product as the primary source of financing their home versus residential mortgages.  The proportion of the home equity portfoli
o secured by a first-lien has increased significantly over the past three years, positively impacting the portfolio™s risk profil
e.  At 
December 31, 2014, $5.1 billion or 60% of our total home equity portfolio was secured by first-lien mortgages compared to 58% i
n the prior year.  The first-lien position, combined with continued high average FICO scores and high LTV, significantly reduces 
the 
credit risk associated with these loans.   
 Within the home equity portfolio, the standard product is a 10-year interest-only draw period with a 20-year fully amortizing t
erm at the end of the draw period.  Prior to 2007, the standard product was a 10-year draw period with a balloon payment.   In eith
er case, 
after the 10-year draw period, the borrower must reapply, subject to full underwriting guidelines, to continue with the interes
t only 
revolving structure or begin repaying the debt in a term structure.   
 The principal and interest payment associated with the term structure will be higher than the interest-only payment, resulting 
in 
maturity risk.  Our maturity risk can be segregated into two distinct segments:  (1) home equity lines-of-credit underwritten w
ith a 
balloon payment at maturity and (2) home equity lines-of-credit with an automatic conversion to a 20-year amortizing loan.  We 
manage this risk based on both the actual maturity date of the line-of-credit structure and at the end of the 10-year draw peri
od.  This 
maturity risk is embedded in the portfolio which we address with
 proactive contact strategies beginning one year prior to matur
ity.  In certain circumstances, our Home Saver group is able to provide payment and structure relief to borrowers experiencing significa
nt financial hardship associated with the payment adjustment.  Our existing HELOC maturity strategy is consistent with the recent 

regulatory guidance.     49 
The table below summarizes our home equity line-of-credit portfolio by the actual maturity date as described above.   
 Table 12 - Maturity Schedule of Home Equity Line-of-Credit Portfolio 
           December 31, 2014 
           More than 
 (dollar amounts in millions) 
1 Year or Less 
 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years  4 years 
Total  Secured by first-lien 
$ 32 
 $ 3 $1 $2  $ 2,859
 $2,897
 Secured by junior-lien 
 197 
  120
  104
  17 
  2,532
  2,970
Total home equity line-of-credit 
$ 229 
 $ 123
 $105
 $19 
 $ 5,391
 $5,867
December 31, 2013 
                 Total home equity line-of-credit 
$ 281 
 $ 245
 $130
 $112 
 $ 4,684
 $5,452
 The reduction in maturities presented in over 1-year categories is a result of our change to a product with a 20-year amortizat
ion period after 10-year draw period structure.  Loans with a balloon payment structure risk is essentially eliminated after 2015. 

 The amounts in the above table maturing in four years or less primarily consist of balloon payment structures and represent the
 most significant maturity risk.  The amounts maturing in more 
than four years primarily consist of exposure with a 20-year 
amortization period after the 10-year draw period. 
 Historically, less than 30% of our home equity lines-of-credit that are one year or less from maturity actually reach the matur
ity date.  
Residential Mortgages Portfolio
  Huntington underwrites all applications centrally, with a focus on higher quality borrowers.  We do not originate residential 
mortgages that allow negative amortization or allow the borrower multiple payment options and have incorporated regulatory 
requirements and guidance into our underwriting process.  All residential mortgages are originated based on a completed full ap
praisal during the credit underwriting process.  We update values in compliance with applicable regulations to facilitate our portfolio
 management, as well as our wo
rkout and loss mitigation functions.  Several government programs continued to impact the residential mortgage portfolio, including various refinance programs such 
as HAMP and HARP, which positively affected the availability of credit for the industry.  During the year ended December 31, 20
14, 
we closed $248.0 million in HARP residential mortgages and $1.8 million in HAMP residential mortgages.  The HARP and HAMP 

residential mortgage loans are part of our residential mortgage portfolio or serviced for others. 
 
We are subject to repurchase risk associated with residential mortgage loans sold in the secondary market.  An appropriate leve
l of reserve for representations and warranties related to residential mortgage loans sold has been established to address this r
epurchase 
risk inherent in the portfolio (see Operational Risk discussion). 
 Credit Quality  (This section should be read in conjunction with Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
 We believe the most meaningful way to assess overall credit quality performance is through an analysis of credit quality 
performance ratios.  This approach forms the basis of most of the discussion in the sections immediately following: NPAs and NA
Ls, 
TDRs, ACL, and NCOs.  In addition, we utilize delinquency rates, risk distribution and migration patterns, and product segmenta
tion in the analysis of our credit quality performance. 

 Credit quality performance in 2014 reflected continued overall improvement.  NPAs declined 4% to $337.7 million, compared to 
December 31, 2013, as the CRE, automobile and  residential portfolio segments showed declines.  This was partially offset by 
increases in C&I, primarily due to two credit relationships, and home equity as a result of lower partial charge-offs due the h
ousing 
market recovery from the lows in 2010-2011.  NCOs decreased 34% 
compared to the prior year, as a result of declines in the CRE,
 home equity and residential portfolios.  Total criticized loans continued to decline, across both the commercial and consumer 
segments on a percentage basis. As a result of the continued credit quality improvement, the ACL to total loans ratio declined 
by 25 basis points to 1.40%.    

    50 
NPAs, NALs, AND TDRs 
 (This section should be read in conjunction with Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)  
 
NPAs and NALs 
 
NPAs consist of (1) NALs, which represent loans and leases no longer accruing interest, (2) OREO properties, and (3) other 
NPAs.  Any loan in our portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies described below when collection of pr
incipal 
or interest is in doubt.  Also, when a borrower with discharged non-reaffirmed debt in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy is identified and
 the loan is determined to be collateral dependent, the loan is placed on nonaccrual status. 

 C&I and CRE loans (except for purchased credit impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status at 90-days past due, or earlier 
if 
repayment of principal and interest is in doubt. Of the $120.5 million of CRE and C&I-related NALs at December 31, 2014, $65.7 
million, or 54%, represented loans that were less than 30-days past due, demonstrating our continued commitment to proactive cr
edit risk management. With the exception of residential mortgage loans guaranteed by government organizations which continue to accr
ue interest, first lien loans secured by residential mortgage collateral are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Ju
nior-lien 
home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due or when the related first-lien loan has b
een 
identified as nonaccrual.  Automobile and other consumer loans are generally charged-off prior to the loan reaching 120-days pa
st due.   
 When loans are placed on nonaccrual, accrued interest income is reversed with current year accruals charged to interest income 
and prior year amounts generally charged-off as a credit loss.  When, in our judgment, the borrower™s ability to make required 
interest and principal payments has resumed and collectability is no longer in doubt, the loan or lease could be returned to accrual sta
tus. 
 The table reflects period-end NALs and NPAs detail for each of the last five years: 
 Table 13 - Nonaccrual Loans and Leases and Nonperforming Assets 
   At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
Nonaccrual loans and leases:                
 Commercial and industrial $71,974 $56,615 $90,705 $ 201,846 $ 346,720 
 Commercial real estate  48,523  73,417  127,128  229,889  363,692 
 Automobile  4,623  6,303  7,823  ---  --- 
 Residential mortgages  96,564  119,532  122,452  68,658  45,010 
 Home equity  78,560  66,189  59,525  40,687  22,526 
Total nonaccrual loans and leases  300,244  322,056  407,633  541,080  777,948 
 Other real estate owned, net                

  Residential  29,291  23,447  21,378  20,330  31,649 
  Commercial  5,748  4,217  6,719  18,094  35,155 
Total other real estate, net  35,039  27,664  28,097  38,424  66,804 
Other nonperforming assets
(1)  2,440  2,440  10,045  10,772  --- 
Total nonperforming assets $337,723 $352,160 $445,775 $ 590,276 $ 844,752 
Nonaccrual loans as a % of total loans and leases  0.63%  0.75%  1.00%  1.39%  2.04% 
Nonperforming assets ratio(2)  0.71  0.82  1.09  1.51  2.21 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as % of:                
 Nonaccrual loans and leases  202%  201%  189%  178%  161% 
 Nonperforming assets  179  184  173  163  148 
Allowance for credit losses as % of:                
 Nonaccrual loans and leases  222%  221%  199%  187%  166% 
 Nonperforming assets  197  202  182  172  153 
(1) Other nonperforming assets includes certain impaired investment securities. 
(2) This ratio is calculated as nonperforming assets divided by the sum of loans and leases, impaired loans held for sale, net othe
r real estate owned, 
and other nonperforming assets. 
    51 
The $14.4 million, or 4%, decline in NPAs compared with December 31, 2013, primarily reflected: 
  $24.9 million, or 34%, decline in CRE NALs, reflecting both NCO activity and problem credit resolutions, including 
borrower payments and payoffs partially resulting from suc
cessful workout strategies implemented by our SAD group.  
 $23.0 million, or 19%, decline in residential mortgage NALs, reflecting resolution of foreclosure processes and improved 
delinquency trends. 
Partially offset by:  $15.4 million, or 27%, increase in C&I NALs, primarily due to two credit relationships. 
 $12.4 million or 19% increase in home equity NALs primarily due to increasing TDR NALs. 
 $7.4 million, or 27%, increase in net OREO properties primarily related to consumer OREO, reflecting the impact from the 
acquisition of Camco Financial. 
 As discussed previously, residential mortgages are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of 
residential mortgages guaranteed by government organizations which continue to accrue interest.  First-lien home equity loans a
re placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier
 of 120-
days past due or when the related first-lien loan has been identified as nonaccrual. 
 The following table reflects period-end accruing loans and leases 90 days or more past due for each of the last five years: 
 Table 14 - Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases 
    At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
Accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more            
 Commercial and industrial
(1) $4,937 $14,562 $26,648 
 $ --- $--- 
 Commercial real estate
(1) 18,793 39,142 56,660 
  ---
 --- 
 Automobile 5,703 5,055 4,418 
  6,265
 7,721 
 Residential mortgage (excluding loans guaranteed      
        by the U.S. government)
(1) 33,040 2,469 2,718 
  45,198
 53,983 
 Home equity 12,159 13,983 18,200 
  20,198
 23,497 
 Other loans and leases 837 998 1,672 
  1,988
 2,456 
Total, excl. loans guaranteed by the U.S. government 75,469 76,209 110,316 
  73,649
 87,657 
Add: loans guaranteed by the U.S. government 55,012 87,985 90,816 
  96,703
 98,288 
Total accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more,            
 including loans guaranteed by the U.S. government $130,481 $164,194 $201,132  $ 170,352 $185,945 
Ratios:            
Excluding loans guaranteed by the U.S. government,            
 as a percent of total loans and leases 0.16% 0.18% 0.27 %  0.19% 0.23% 
Guaranteed by the U.S. government, as a percent of            
 total loans and leases 0.12 0.20 0.22   0.25 0.26 
Including loans guaranteed by the U.S. government,             
 as a percent of total loans and leases 0.27 0.38 0.49   0.44 0.49 
(1) Amounts represent accruing purchased impaired loans related to the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank and Camco Financial acquisition.
  Under the 
applicable accounting guidance (ASC 310-30), the loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and remain in accruing stat
us. 
 TDR Loans 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
 TDRs are modified loans where a concession was provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  TDRs can be 
classified as either accrual or nonaccrual loans.  Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from
 NALs, as it is probable that all contractual principal and interest due under the restructured terms will be collected.  TDRs p
rimarily 
reflect our loss mitigation efforts to proactively work with borrowers in financial difficulty. 
  52 
The table below presents our accruing and nonaccruing TDRs at period-end for each of the past five years: 
 Table 15 - Accruing and Nonaccruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans 
   December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands
) 2014
2013
2012
2011 
2010
Troubled debt restructured loans - accruing: 
       Commercial and industrial $116,331
$83,857$76,586 
$54,007$70,136  Commercial real estate 177,156
204,668
208,901 
249,968
152,496
  Automobile 
26,06030,78135,784 
36,57329,764  Home equity 252,084188,266110,581 52,22437,257
  Residential mortgage 
265,084
305,059
290,011 
309,678
328,411
  Other consumer 
4,018
1,041
2,544 
6,108
9,565
 Total troubled debt restructured loans - 
accruing 
840,733
813,672
724,407 
708,558
627,629
Troubled debt restructured loans - nonaccruing: 
       Commercial and industrial 20,5807,291
19,268 
48,55315,275  Commercial real estate 24,96423,98132,548 
21,96818,187  Automobile 
4,552
6,303
7,823 
---
---
  Home equity 
27,22420,7156,951 
369
---
  Residential mortgage 
69,30582,87984,515 
26,0895,789
  Other consumer 
70---
113 
113
---
 Total troubled debt restructured loans - 
nonaccruing 
146,695
141,169
151,218 
97,09239,251Total troubled debt restructured loans 
$987,428
$954,841
$875,625 
$805,650
$666,880
 Our strategy is to structure TDRs in a manner that avoids new concessions subsequent to the initial TDR terms. However, there 
are times when subsequent modifications are required, such as when the modified loan matures.  Often the loans are performing i
n accordance with the TDR terms, and a new note is originated with similar modified terms.  These loans are subjected to the norm
al underwriting standards and processes for other similar credit extensions, both new and existing.  If the loan is not performing
 in accordance with the existing TDR terms, typically an individualized approach to repayment is established.  In accordance with A
SC 310-20-35, the refinanced note is evaluated to determine if it is
 considered a new loan or a continuation of the prior loan.  A
 new loan 
is considered for removal of the TDR designation.  A continuation of the prior note requires the continuation of the TDR design
ation, and because the refinanced note constitutes a new or amended debt instrument, it is included in our TDR activity table (below) 
as a 
new TDR and a restructured TDR removal during the period.  
 The types of concessions granted are consistent with those granted on new TDRs and include interest rate reductions, 
amortization or maturity date changes beyond what the collateral 
supports, and principal forgiveness based on the borrower™s sp
ecific needs at a point in time. Our policy does not limit the number of times a loan may be modified.  A loan may be modified multipl
e times if it is considered to be in the best interest of both the borrower and Huntington. 
 Commercial loans are not automatically considered to be accruing TDRs upon the granting of a new concession.  If the loan is in
 accruing status and no loss is expected based on the modified terms, the modified TDR remains in accruing status.  For loans th
at are on nonaccrual status before the modification, collection of both principal and interest must not be in doubt, and the borrower 
must be 
able to exhibit sufficient cash flows for a six-month period of time to service the debt in order to return to accruing status.
 This six-
month period could extend before or after the restructure date. 
 TDRs in the home equity and residential mortgage portfolio may continue to increase in the near term as we continue to 
appropriately manage the portfolio and work with our borrowers.  Any granted change in terms or conditions that are not readily
 available in the market for that borrower, requires the designation as a TDR. There are no provisions for the removal of the TD
R designation based on payment activity for consumer loans. 

    53 
The following table reflects TDR activity for each of the past four years: 
 Table 16 - Troubled Debt Restructured Loan Activity 
            (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 2011 TDRs, beginning of period 
$954,841$875,625$805,650$666,880 New TDRs  667,315 611,556 597,425 583,439 Payments 
 (252,285) (191,367) (191,035) (138,467) Charge-offs 
 (35,150) (29,897) (81,115) (37,341) Sales  (23,424) (11,164) (13,787) (54,715) Refinanced to non-TDR 
 --- --- --- (40,091) Transfer to OREO 
 (12,668) (8,242) (21,709) (5,016) Restructured TDRs - accruing
(1)  (243,225) (211,131) (153,583) (154,945) Restructured TDRs - nonaccruing
(1)  (45,705) (26,772) (63,080) (47,659) Other  (22,271) (53,767) (3,141) 33,565TDRs, end of period 
$987,428$954,841$875,625$805,650(1) Represents existing TDRs that were reunderwritten with new terms providing a concession.  A corresponding amount is included in
 the New 
TDRs amount above. ACL 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
  Our total credit reserve is comprised of two different components, both of which in our judgment are appropriate to absorb cred
it losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio: the ALLL and the AULC.  Combined, these reserves comprise the total ACL.  Our 

Credit Administration group is responsible for developing the methodology assumptions and estimates used in the calculation, as
 well as determining the appropriateness of the ACL.  The ALLL represents the estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio at th
e reported date.  Additions to the ALLL result from recording provision expense for loan losses or increased risk levels resultin
g from 
loan risk-rating downgrades, while reductions reflect charge-offs (net of recoveries), decreased risk levels resulting from loa
n risk-rating upgrades, or the sale of loans.  The AULC is determined by applying the transaction reserve process to the unfunded port
ion of 
the loan exposures adjusted by an applicable funding expectation.  
 The provision for credit losses in 2014 was $81.0 million, compared with $90.0 million in 2013.  
 We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of the ACL by performing on-going evaluations of the loan and lease portfolio, 
including such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific 
borrowers, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or
 other 
documented support.  We evaluate the impact of changes in interest rates and overall economic conditions on the ability of borr
owers 
to meet their financial obligations when quantifying our exposure to credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL
 at each reporting date.  In addition to general economic conditions and the other factors described above, we also consider the im
pact of collateral value trends and portfolio diversification.  A provision for credit losses is recorded to adjust the ACL to the leve
l we have 
determined to be appropriate to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio. 
 Our ACL evaluation process includes the on-going assessment of credit quality metrics, and a comparison of certain ACL 
benchmarks to current performance.  While the total ACL balance has declined in recent quarters, all of the relevant benchmarks
 remain strong. 
    54 
The following table reflects activity in the ALLL and AULC for each of the last five years: 
 Table 17 - Summary of Allowance for Credit Losses and Related Statistics 
       
              
 Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013  2012 
 2011  2010 Allowance for loan and lease losses, beginning of year  
$647,870$769,075$ 964,828 $ 1,249,008$ 1,482,479
Loan and lease charge-offs 
      
 Commercial: 
      
  Commercial and industrial 
 (76,654) (45,904) (101,475)  (134,385) (316,771)
  Commercial real estate: 
      
   Construction 
 (5,626) (9,585) (12,131)  (42,012) (116,428)
   Commercial 
 (19,078) (59,927) (105,920)  (140,747) (187,567)
  Commercial real estate 
 (24,704) (69,512) (118,051)  (182,759) (303,995)
 Total commercial 
 (101,358) (115,416) (219,526)  (317,144) (620,766)
 Consumer: 
      
  Automobile 
 (31,330) (23,912) (26,070)  (33,593) (46,308)
  Home equity 
 (54,473) (98,184) (124,286)  (109,427) (140,831)
  Residential mortgage 
 (25,946) (34,236) (52,228)  (65,069) (163,427)
  Other consumer 
 (33,494) (34,568) (33,090)  (32,520) (32,575)
 Total consumer 
 (145,243) (190,900) (235,674)  (240,609) (383,141)
Total charge-offs (246,601)(306,316)(455,200)  (557,753)(1,003,907)
Recoveries of loan and lease charge-offs 
      
 Commercial: 
      
  Commercial and industrial 
 44,531 29,514 37,227  44,686 61,839
  Commercial real estate: 
      
   Construction 
 4,455 3,227 4,090  10,488 7,420
   Commercial 
 29,616 41,431 35,532  24,170 21,013
  Total commercial real estate 
 34,071 44,658 39,622  34,658 28,433
 Total commercial 
 78,602 74,172 76,849  79,344 90,272
 Consumer: 
      
  Automobile 
 13,762 13,375 16,628  18,526 19,736
  Home equity 
 17,526 15,921 7,907  7,630 1,458
  Residential mortgage 
 6,194 7,074 4,305  8,388 10,532
  Other consumer 
 5,890 7,108 7,049  6,776 7,435
 Total consumer 
 43,372 43,478 35,889  41,320 39,161
Total recoveries 121,974117,650112,738  120,664129,433
Net loan and lease charge-offs (124,627)(188,666)(342,462)  (437,089)(874,474)
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 83,082 67,797 155,193  167,730 641,299
Allowance for assets sold and securitized or transferred to loans 
held for sale 
 (1,129) (336) (8,484)  (14,821) (296)
Allowance for loan and lease losses, end of year 605,196647,870769,075  964,8281,249,008
Allowance for unfunded loan commitments, beginning of year 
 62,899 40,651 48,456  42,127 48,879
(Reduction in) Provision for unfunded loan commitments and 
letters of credit losses 
 (2,093) 22,248 (7,805)  6,329 (6,752)
 Allowance for unfunded loan commitments, end of year 
 60,806 62,899 40,651  48,456 42,127
Allowance for credit losses, end of year 
$666,002$710,769$ 809,726 $ 1,013,284$ 1,291,135
    55 
The table below reflects the allocation of our ACL among our various loan categories during each of the past five years: 
 Table 18 - Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses (1) 
  At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012  2011  2010 
Commercial:                     
 Commercial and industrial $ 286,995 40% $265,80141% $241,05142% $275,367 38% $340,61434%
 Commercial real estate  102,839 11  162,55711  285,36914  388,706 14  588,25118 
Total commercial  389,834 51  428,35852  526,42056  664,073 52  928,86552 
Consumer:                     
 Automobile  33,466 18  31,05315  34,97911  38,282 11  49,48815 
 Home equity  96,413 18  111,13119  118,76420  143,873 21  150,63020 
 Residential mortgage  47,211 12  39,57712  61,65812  87,194 13  93,28912 
 Other loans  38,272 1  37,7512  27,2541  31,406 3  26,7361 
Total consumer  215,362 49  219,51248  242,65544  300,755 48  320,14348 
Total allowance for loan and lease 
losses  605,196 100%  647,870100%  769,075100%  964,828 100%  1,249,008100%
Allowance for unfunded loan 

commitments  60,806    62,899   40,651   48,456    42,127  
Total allowance for credit losses $ 666,002   $710,769  $809,726  $1,013,284   $1,291,135  
Total allowance for loan and leases losses as % of: 
   Total loans and leases   1.27%   1.50%   1.89%   2.48%   3.28%
 Nonaccrual loans and leases   202   201   189   178   161 
 Nonperforming assets   179   184   173   163   148 
Total allowance for credit losses as % of: 
  Total loans and leases   1.40%   1.65%   1.99%   2.60%   3.39%
 Nonaccrual loans and leases   222   221   199   187   166 
 Nonperforming assets   197   202   182   172   153 
(1) Percentages represent the percentage of each loan and lease category to total loans and leases. 
 The C&I ACL increased $21.2 million, or 8%, compared with December 31, 2013, primarily due to the risk rating composition 
and overall growth in the portfolio.  The CRE ACL decreased $59.7 million, or 37%, compared with December 31, 2013, due to the 
continued improving portfolio asset quality metrics and performance.  The current portfolio management practices focus on incre
asing borrower equity in the projects, and recent underwriting includes meaningfully lower LTV.  The December 31, 2014, CRE ACL 
covers NALs by more than two times.  The home equity portfolio ALLL declined, consistent with the improving credit quality 
metrics.  The ALLL for the other consumer portfolio is consistent with expectations given the increasing level of overdraft exp
osure.  
The reduction in the ACL, compared with December 31, 2013, is primarily a function of the decline in the CRE portfolio and 
improving economic conditions.  
 Compared with December 31, 2013, the AULC decreased $2.1 million, primarily reflecting the impact of an updated assessment 
of the unfunded commercial exposure.   

 The ACL to total loans declined to 1.40% at December 31, 2014, compared to 1.65% at December 31, 2013.  Management  
believes the decline in the ratio is appropriate given the continued improvement in the risk profile of our loan portfolio.  Fu
rther, the 
continued focus on early identification of loans with changes in credit metrics and proactive action plans for these loans, com
bined with originating high quality new loans will contribute to maintaining our strong key credit quality metrics.   
   

Given the combination of these noted positive and negative factors, we believe that our ACL is appropriate and its coverage lev
el is reflective of the quality of our portfolio and the current operating environment.  
  
   56 
NCOs 
 Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-off prior to the policies described below if a loss confirming event has occurred.  Lo
ss confirming events include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy (unsecured), continued delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an
 asset 
valuation indicating a collateral deficiency and that asset is the sole source of repayment.  Additionally, discharged, collate
ral dependent non-reaffirmed debt in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings will result in a charge-off to estimated collateral value, less a
nticipated 
selling costs at the time of discharge.
  C&I and CRE loans are either charged-off or written down to net realizable value at 90-days past due.  Automobile loans and 
other consumer loans are charged-off at 120-days past due.   Fi
rst-lien and junior-lien home equity loans are charged-off to th
e estimated fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, at 150-days past due and 120-days past due, respectivel
y.   Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, at 150-day
s past due. 
 The following table reflects NCO detail for each of the last five years: 
 Table 19 - Net Loan and Lease Charge-offs 
     Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
Net charge-offs by loan and lease type       
 Commercial:       
  Commercial and industrial $32,123$16,390$ 64,248 $ 89,699$254,932 
  Commercial real estate:       
   Construction  1,171 6,358 8,041  31,524 109,008 
   Commercial  (10,538) 18,496 70,388  116,577 166,554 
  Total commercial real estate  (9,367) 24,854 78,429  148,101 275,562 
 Total commercial  22,756 41,244 142,677  237,800 530,494 
 Consumer:       
  Automobile  17,568 10,537 9,442  15,067 26,572 

  Home equity  36,947 82,263 116,379  101,797 139,373 
  Residential mortgage  19,752 27,162 47,923  56,681 152,895 
  Other consumer  27,604 27,460 26,041  25,744 25,140 
 Total consumer  101,871 147,422 199,785  199,289 343,980 
Total net charge-offs $124,627$188,666$ 342,462 $ 437,089$874,474 
Net charge-offs ratio: (1)       
 Commercial:       
  Commercial and industrial  0.18%0.10%0.40 % 0.66%2.05%
  Commercial real estate:       
   Construction  0.16 1.10 1.38  5.33 9.95 
   Commercial  (0.25) 0.42 1.35  2.08 2.72 
  Commercial real estate  (0.19) 0.49 1.36  2.39 3.81 
 Total commercial  0.10 0.19 0.66  1.20 2.70 
 Consumer:       
  Automobile  0.23 0.19 0.21  0.26 0.54 

  Home equity  0.44 0.99 1.40  1.28 1.84 
  Residential mortgage  0.35 0.52 0.92  1.20 3.42 
  Other consumer  6.99 6.30 5.72  4.85 3.80 
 Total consumer  0.46 0.75 1.08  1.05 1.95 
Net charge-offs as a % of average loans 0.27%0.45%0.85 % 1.12%2.35%
    57 
In assessing NCO trends, it is helpful to understand the process of how commercial loans are treated as they deteriorate over t
ime.  
The ALLL established is consistent with the level of risk associated with the original underwriting.  As a part of our normal p
ortfolio 
management process for commercial loans, the loan is periodically reviewed and the ALLL is increased or decreased based on the 

updated risk rating.  In certain cases, the standard ALLL is determined to not be appropriate, and a specific reserve is establ
ished based on the projected cash flow or collateral value of the specific loan.  Charge-offs, if necessary, are generally recognized
 in a 
period after the specific ALLL was established.  If the previously established ALLL exceeds that necessary to satisfactorily re
solve the 
problem loan, a reduction in the overall level of the ALLL could be recognized.  Consumer loans are treated in much the same ma
nner 
as commercial loans, with increasing reserve factors applied based on the risk characteristics of the loan, although specific r
eserves are 
not identified for consumer loans.  In summary, if loan quality deteriorates, the typical credit sequence would be periods of r
eserve 
building, followed by periods of higher NCOs as the previously established ALLL is utilized.  Additionally, an increase in the 
ALLL 
either precedes or is in conjunction with increases in NALs.   When a loan is classified as NAL, it is evaluated for specific A
LLL or 
charge-off.  As a result, an increase in NALs does not necessarily result in an increase in the ALLL or an expectation of highe
r future NCOs.   
 
All residential mortgage loans greater than 150-days past due are charged-down to the estimated value of the collateral, less 
anticipated selling costs.  The remaining balance is in delinquent status until a modification can be completed, or the loan go
es 
through the foreclosure process.  For the home equity portfolio, virtually all of the defaults represent full charge-offs, as t
here is no 
remaining equity, creating a lower delinquency rate but a higher NCO impact. 
 2014 versus 2013 
 NCOs decreased $64.0 million, or 34%, in 2014, primarily as a result of continued credit quality. This improvement was partiall
y offset by an increase in C&I primarily relating to large losses associated with a small number of credit relationships. 

 Market Risk 
 Market risk represents the risk of loss due to changes in market values of assets and liabilities.  We incur market risk in the
 normal course of business through exposures to market interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, and credit spreads
.  We 
have identified two primary sources of market risk:  interest rate risk and price risk. 

 Interest Rate Risk 
 OVERVIEW 
 Huntington actively manages interest rate risk, as changes in market interest rates can have a significant impact on reported 
earnings.  The interest rate risk process is designed to compar
e income simulations in market scenarios designed to alter the d
irection, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes, as well as the slope of the yield curve.  These scenarios are designed to illust
rate the embedded optionality in the balance sheet from, among other things, faster or slower mortgage prepayments and changes in deposi
t mix. 
 
During the 2014 fourth quarter, we updated various assumptions 
associated with the modeling of non-maturity deposit behavior 
as interest rates change. The most significant change was the removal of a stress component that caused forecasted deposit bala
nces to 
be lower than actual deposit balances. The new assumptions better align the behavior of our non-maturity deposits with our expe
rience and expectations. The assumption changes primarily impacted EVE at Risk by making the +100 and +200 shock scenarios less 

liability sensitive.  The assumption changes did not materially impact the NII at Risk.  The results are further discussed belo
w.    
 INCOME SIMULATION AND ECONOMIC VALUE ANALYSIS 
 Interest rate risk measurement is calculated and reported to the ALCO monthly and ROC at least quarterly.  The information 
reported includes period-end results and identifies any policy limits exceeded, along with an assessment of the policy limit br
each and 
the action plan and timeline for resolution, mitigation, or assumption of the risk.   
 Huntington uses two approaches to model interest rate risk: Net Interest Income at Risk (NII at Risk) and Economic Value of 
Equity (EVE).  Under NII at Risk, net interest income is modeled utilizing various assumptions for assets, liabilities, and der
ivative 
positions under various interest rate scenarios over a one-year time horizon.  EVE measures the period end market value of asse
ts minus the market value of liabilities and the change in this value as rates change. EVE is a period end measurement.     

   58 
 Table 20 - Net Interest Income at Risk 
              Net Interest Income at Risk (%) 
Basis point change scenario 
 -25  +100 +200Board policy limits 
  ---  -2.0%-4.0%December 31, 2014   -0.2%  0.5%0.2
% Through December 31, 2013, we reported ISE at Risk. We now report NII at Risk to isolate the change in income related solely to
 interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities.  The difference between the results for ISE at Risk and NII at Risk a
re not 
significant for this or any previous fiscal year.   

 The NII at Risk results included in the table above reflect the analysis used monthly by management.  It models gradual -25, +1
00 
and +200 basis point parallel shifts in market interest rates, implied by the forward yield curve over the next one-year period
.  Due to 
the current low level of short-term interest rates, the analysis reflects a declining interest rate scenario of 25 basis points
, the point at 
which many assets and liabilities reach zero percent.   
 
Huntington is within Board policy limits for the +100 and +200 basis point scenarios.   There is no policy limit for the -25 ba
sis point scenario.  The NII at Risk reported at December 31, 2014, shows that Huntington™s earnings are not particularly sensitive
 to changes in interest rates over the next year.  In recent periods, the amount of fixed rate assets, primarily indirect auto loan
s and 
securities, increased resulting in a reduction in asset sensitivity.  This reduction is somewhat accentuated by our portfolio o
f mortgage-
related loans and securities, whose expected maturities lengthen as rates rise. The reduced asset sensitivity for the +200 basi
s points 
scenario (relative to the +100 basis points scenario) relates to the modeled migration of money market accounts balances into C
Ds 
thereby shifting deposits from a variable rate to a fixed rate.   
 Table 21 - Economic Value of Equity at Risk 
           Economic Value of Equity at Risk (%) 
Basis point change scenario 
-25  +100 +200Board policy limits 
---  -5.0%-12.0%December 31, 2014 
-0.6%  0.4%-1.5
%December 31, 2013 
0.6%  -3.9%-9.3
% The EVE results included in the table above reflect the analysis used monthly by management.  It models immediate -25, +100 
and +200 basis point parallel shifts in market interest rates.  Due to the current low level of short-term interest rates, the 
analysis reflects a declining interest rate scenario of 25 basis points, the point at which many assets and liabilities reach zero perce
nt.    Huntington is within Board policy limits for the +100 and +200 basis point scenarios.   There is no policy limit for the -25 ba
sis point scenario.  The EVE reported at December 31, 2014 shows that as interest rates increase (decrease) immediately, the econom
ic value of equity position will decrease (increase).  When interest rates rise, fixed rate assets generally lose economic value; 
the longer the duration, the greater the value lost.  The opposite is true when interest rates fall.  The EVE at risk reported as of Decem
ber 31, 2014 for the +200 basis points scenario shows a change to a less liability sensitive position compared with December 31, 2013. 
The 
primary factor contributing to this change was the impact of substantially lower interest rates. In addition, the assumption ch
anges 
mentioned above reduced liability sensitivity in the +200 basis point scenario by +3.4%.   

 MSR  (This section should be read in conjunction with Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) 

 At December 31, 2014 we had a total of $155.6 million of capitalized MSRs representing the right to service $15.6 billion in 
mortgage loans.
  Of this $155.6 mil
lion, $22.8 million
 was recorded using the fair value method and $132.8 million was recorded 
using the amortization method. 
 
MSR fair values are very sensitive to movements in interest rates as expected future net servicing income depends on the 
projected outstanding principal balances of the underlying loans, which can be greatly reduced by prepayments. Prepayments usua
lly increase when mortgage interest rates decline and decrease when mortgage interest rates rise.  We have employed strategies to r
educe 
the risk of MSR fair value changes or impairment.  However, volatile changes in interest rates can diminish the effectiveness o
f these 
hedges.  We typically report MSR fair value adjustments net of hedge-related trading activity in the mortgage banking income 
category of noninterest income.  Changes in fair value between reporting dates are recorded as an increase or a decrease in mor
tgage 
banking income.   
  59 
MSRs recorded using the amortization method generally relate to loans originated with historically low interest rates, resultin
g in 
a lower probability of prepayments and, ultimately, impairment.  MSR assets are included in accrued income and other assets in 
the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Price Risk  Price risk represents the risk of loss arising from adverse movements in the prices of financial instruments that are carried a
t fair value and are subject to fair value accounting.  We have price risk from trading securities, securities owned by our broker-dea
ler subsidiaries, foreign exchange positions, equity investments, investments in securities backed by mortgage loans, and marketabl
e equity securities held by our insurance subsidiaries.  We have established loss limits on the trading portfolio, on the amount 
of foreign exchange exposure that can be maintained, and on the amount of marketable equity securities that can be held by the insurance 
subsidiaries.   Liquidity Risk 
 Liquidity risk is the risk of loss due to the possibility that funds may not be available to satisfy current or future commitme
nts resulting from external macro market issues, investor and customer perception of financial strength, and events unrelated to us
, such as 
war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues.  In addition, the mix and maturity structure of Huntington™s b
alance 
sheet, the amount of on-hand cash and unencumbered securities, and the availability of contingent sources of funding can have a
n impact on Huntington™s ability to satisfy current or future funding commitments. We manage liquidity risk at both the Bank and 
the 
parent company. 
 The overall objective of liquidity risk management is to ensure that we can obtain cost-effective funding to meet current and 
future obligations, and can maintain sufficient levels of on-hand liquidity, under both normal business-as-usual and unanticipa
ted stressed circumstances.  The ALCO was appointed by the ROC to oversee liquidity risk management and the establishment of 
liquidity risk policies and limits. Contingency funding plans are in place, which measure forecasted sources and uses of funds 
under 
various scenarios in order to prepare for unexpected liquidity shortages.  Liquidity risk is reviewed monthly for the Bank and 
the parent company, as well as its subsidiaries.   In addition, liquidity working groups meet regularly to identify and monitor liq
uidity 
positions, provide policy guidance, review funding strategies, and oversee the adherence to, and maintenance of, the contingenc
y funding plans.    
 Available-for-sale and other securities portfolio 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
  
Our investment securities portfolio is evaluated under established asset/liability management objectives. Changing market 
conditions could affect the profitability of the portfolio, as well as the level of interest rate risk exposure. 
  Our available-for-sale and other securities portfolio is comprised of various financial instruments.  At December 31, 2014, our
 available-for-sale and other securities portfolio totaled $9.4 billion, an increase of $2.1 billion from 2013.  The duration of
 the portfolio decreased by 0.3 years to 3.9 years.  
    60 
The composition and maturity of the portfolio is presented on the following two tables: 
 Table 22 - Available-for-sale and other securities Portfolio Summary at Fair Value 
     At December 31, 
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
  2014
2013
2012
U.S. Treasur
y, Federal a
genc
y, and other a
genc
y securities$5,679,696 
$3,937,713
$4,676,607
Other 3,704,974 
3,371,040
2,889,568
Total available-for-sale and other securities 
  $9,384,670 
$7,308,753
$7,566,175
Duration in years (1) 
   3.9 
4.2
2.9
(1) The average duration assumes a market driven prepayment rate on securities subject to prepayment. 
  Table 23 - Available-fo
r-sale and other securities Portfolio Com
position and Maturit
y  At December 31, 2014
  Amortized (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Cost Fair Value 
Yield (1)  U.S. Treasury: 
   Under 1 year 
$--- $ ------% 1-5 years 
 5,435 
5,4521.20  6-10 years 
 --- ------  Over 10 years 
 --- ------ Total U.S. Treasury 
 5,435 
5,4521.20  Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities 
   Under 1 year 
 47,023 
47,1901.99  1-5 years 
 216,775 
221,0782.30  6-10 years 
 184,576 
186,9382.87  Over 10 years 
 4,825,525 
4,867,4952.42 Total Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities 
 5,273,899 
5,322,7012.43 Other agencies: 
   Under 1 year 
 33,047 
33,2371.56  1-5 years 
 9,122 
9,5752.95  6-10 years 
 103,530 
105,0192.58  Over 10 years 
 204,016 
203,7122.60 Total other Federal agencies 
 349,715 
351,5432.51 Total U.S. Treasury, Federal agency, and other agency securities 
 5,629,049 
5,679,6962.43 Municipal securities: 
   Under 1 year 
 256,399 
255,8352.42  1-5 years 
 269,385 
274,0033.45  6-10 years 
 938,780 
945,9542.86  Over 10 years 
 376,747 
392,7774.23 Total municipal securities 
 1,841,311 
1,868,5693.16 Private label CMO: 
   Under 1 year 
 --- ------  1-5 years 
 --- ------  6-10 years 
 1,314 
1,3715.60  Over 10 years 
 42,416 
40,5552.49 Total private label CMO 
 43,730 
41,9262.58    61 
Asset-backed securities: 
   Under 1 year 
 --- ------  1-5 years 
 228,852 
229,3641.90  6-10 years 
 144,163 
144,1932.20  Over 10 years 
 641,984 
582,4412.15 Total asset-backed securities 
 1,014,999 
955,9982.10 Corporate debt securities: 
   Under 1 year 
 18,767 
18,9533.28  1-5 years 
 314,773 
323,5033.30  6-10 years 
 145,611 
143,7202.85  Over 10 years 
 --- ------ Total corporate debt securities 
 479,151 
486,1763.16 Other:    Under 1 year 
 250 2501.48  1-5 years 
 3,150 
3,0662.50  6-10 years 
 --- ---NA  Over 10 years 
 --- ---NA  Nonmarketable equity securities (2) 
 331,559 
331,5595.05  Marketable equity securities (3) 
 16,687 
17,430NA Total other 
 351,646 
352,3054.79 Total available-for-sale and other securities 
$9,359,886 
$9,384,6702.67%(1) Weighted average yields were calculated using amortized cost on a fully-taxable equivalent basis, assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(2) Consists of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holding carried at par. 
(3) Consists of certain mutual fund and equity security holdings. 
 Investment securities portfolio 
 The expected weighted average maturities of our AFS and HTM portfolios are significantly shorter than their contractual 
maturities as reflected in Note 4 and Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Particularly regarding the MBS 
and 
ABS, prepayments of principal and interest that historically occur in advance of scheduled maturities will shorten the expected
 life of 
these portfolios.  The expected weighted average maturities, which take into account expected prepayments of principal and inte
rest 
under existing interest rate conditions, are shown in the following table: 
 Table 24 - Expected Life of Investment Securities            
   December 31, 2014 
   Available-for-Sale & Other   Held-to-Maturity 
   Securities   Securities 
   Amortized Fair  Amortized   Fair  
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
Cost Value Cost  Value 
Under 1 year $569,054 $565,853 $---  $---
1 - 5 years  4,882,061  4,938,893  2,200,359   2,201,471
6 - 10 years  3,039,362  3,031,093  1,171,565   1,173,650
Over 10 years  521,163  499,841  7,981   7,594

Other securities  348,246  348,990  ---   ---

Total $9,359,886 $9,384,670 $3,379,905  $3,382,715
 Bank Liquidity and Sources of Funding 
 Our primary sources of funding for the Bank are retail and commercial core deposits.  As of December 31, 2014, these core 
deposits funded 73% of total assets (102% of total loans).  At December 31, 2014, total core deposits represented 94% of total 
deposits, a slight decrease from December 31, 2013, when core deposits represented 95% of total deposits. 
 Core deposits may increase our need for liquidity as certificates of deposit mature or are withdrawn before maturity and as 
nonmaturity deposits, such as checking and savings account balances, are withdrawn. To the extent we are unable to obtain suffi
cient liquidity through core deposits, we may meet our liquidity needs through other sources, asset securitization, or sale. Other so
urces 
include non-core deposits, FHLB advances, and other wholesale debt instruments. 
  62 
The following tables reflect contractual maturities of other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more and brokered deposits a
nd 
negotiable CDs as well as other domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more and brokered deposits and negotiable CDs at December
 31, 2014. 
 Demand deposit overdrafts that have been reclassified as loan balances were $18.7 million and $19.3 million at December 31, 
2014 and 2013, respectively.   Table 25 - Maturity Schedule of time deposits, brokered deposits, and negotiable CDs 
  December 31, 2014 
  3 Months 
3 Months 6 Months 12 Months (dollar amounts in millions) 
or Less 
to 6 Months 
to 12 Monthsor More Total 
Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more and brokered deposits and 
negotiable CDs $1,793$169$213 $545$2,720
 Other domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more and brokered deposits and 
negotiable CDs $1,809$179$229 $568$2,785
 The following table reflects deposit composition detail for each of the last five years: 
 Table 26 - Deposit Composition 
                 At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions) 
 2014 2013 2012  2011 2010 By Type 
            Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing 
$15,393
30%$13,650
29%$12,600
27%$ 11,158 
26 %$7,217
17%  Demand deposits - interest-bearing 
 6,248
12  5,880
12  6,218
13  5,722 
13   5,469
13   Money market deposits 
 18,986
37  17,213
36  14,691
32  13,117 
30   13,410
32   Savings and other domestic deposits 
 5,048
10  4,871
10  5,002
11  4,698 
11   4,643
11   Core certificates of deposit 
 2,936
5  3,723
8  5,516
12  6,513 
15   8,525
20  Total core deposits 
 48,611
94  45,337
95  44,027
95  41,208 
95   39,264
93  Other domestic deposits of $250,000 
                      or more  198
---  274
1  354
1  390 
1   675
2  Brokered deposits and negotiable CDs 
 2,522
5  1,580
3  1,594
3  1,321 
3   1,532
4  Deposits in foreign offices 
 401
1  316
1  278
1  361 
1   383
1 Total deposits $51,732100
%$47,507
100%$46,253
100%$ 43,280 
100 %$41,854
100%Core deposits:                  Commercial $22,725
47%$19,982
44%$18,358
42%$ 16,366 
40 %$12,476
32% Personal  25,886
53  25,355
56  25,669
58  24,842 
60   26,788
68 Total core deposits 
$48,611100
%$45,337
100%$44,027
100%$ 41,208 
100 %$39,264
100% Note 9 to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses short-term borrowings for each of the last five years.  
 The Bank maintains borrowing capacity at the FHLB and the Feder
al Reserve Bank Discount Wi
ndow. The Bank does not 
consider borrowing capacity from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as a primary source of liquidity.  Total loans and 
securities pledged to the Federal Reserve Discount Window and the FHLB are $18.0 billion and $19.8 billion at December 31, 2014
 and 2013, respectively.   
 
In February 2014, the Bank issued $500.0 million of senior notes at 99.842% of face value. The senior bank note issuances 
mature on April 1, 2019 and have a fixed 
coupon rate of 2.20%. In Apr
il 2014, the Bank is
sued $500.0 million 
of senior notes at
 99.842% of face value. The senior note issu
ances mature on April 24, 2017 and have 
a fixed coupon rate of 1.375%. In April 2014
, the 
Bank also issued $250.0 million of senior notes at 100% of face value.  The senior bank note issuances mature on April 24, 2017
 and 
have a variable coupon rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 0.425%. All senior note issuances may be redeemed one month 

prior to their maturity date at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest.  
 At December 31, 2014, total wholesale funding was $9.9 billion, an increase from $7.0 billion at December 31, 2013.  The 
increase from prior year-end primarily relates to an increase in long-term debt, brokered deposits, and negotiable CDs. 
 63 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
 On October 24, 2013, the U.S. banking regulators jointly issued a proposal that would implement a quantitative liquidity 
requirement consistent with the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) standard established by the Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision.  The LCR is designed to promote the short-term res
ilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks to which it appli
es.   
On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators adopted a final LCR for internationally active banking organizations, 
generally those with $250 billion or more in total assets, and a Modified LCR rule for banking organizations, similar to Huntin
gton, with $50 billion or more in total assets that are not internationally active banking organizations.  The Modified LCR requires 

Huntington to maintain High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) to meet its net cash outflows over a prospective 30 calendar-day perio
d, which takes into account the potential impact of idiosyncratic and market-wide shocks.  The Modified LCR transition period begi
ns on 
January 1, 2016, with Huntington required to maintain HQLA equal to 90 percent of the stated requirement.  The ratio increases 
to 100 percent on January 1, 2017.  Huntington expects to be compliant with the Modified LCR requirement within the transition per
iods 
established in the Modified LCR rule. 
 At December 31, 2014, we believe the Bank had sufficient liquidity to meet its cash flow obligations for the foreseeable future
.   
  Table 27 - Maturity Schedule of Commercial Loans 
      December 31, 2014 
  One Year 
One to After   Percent  (dollar amounts in millions) 
or Less 
Five Years 
Five Years 
Total 
 total 
  Commercial and industrial 
$4,988$10,258$3,787 
$19,03378% Commercial real estate - construction 
 163590122 8754 Commercial real estate - commercial 
 1,1842,516622 4,32218Total 
$6,335$13,364$4,531 
$24,230100%   Variable-interest rates $5,748$10,528$2,589 
$18,86578% Fixed-interest rates 
 5872,8361,942 
5,36522Total 
$6,335$13,364$4,531 
$24,230100%Percent of total 
 26% 55% 19 % 100%   At December 31, 2014, AFS securities, with a fair value of $3.6 billion, were pledged to secure public and trust deposits, inte
rest rate swap agreements, U.S. Treasury demand notes, and securities sold under repurchase agreements.   
 Parent Company Liquidity  
 The parent company™s funding requirements consist primarily of dividends to shareholders, debt service, income taxes, operating
 expenses, funding of nonbank subsidiaries, repurchases of our stock, and acquisitions.  The parent company obtains funding to m
eet obligations from dividends and interest received from the Bank, interest and dividends received from direct subsidiaries, net t
axes 
collected from subsidiaries included in the federal consolidated tax return, fees for services provided to subsidiaries, and th
e issuance 
of debt securities. 
 
At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the parent company had $0.7 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, in cash and 
cash equivalents.  
 On January 21, 2015, the board of directors declared a quarterly common stoc
k cash dividend of $0.06 per common share.  The 
dividend is payable on April 1, 2015, to shar
eholders of record on Marc
h 18, 2015.  Based on the current quarterly dividend of 
$0.06 
per common share, cash demands required for common stock dividends are estimated to be approximately $48.7 million per quarter.
  On January 21, 2015, the board of director
s declared a quarterly Series A and Series 
B Preferred Stock dividend payable on Apri
l 15, 
2015 to shareholders of record on April 1, 2015. Based on the current dividend, cash demands required for Series A Preferred St
ock 
are estimated to be approximately $7.7 million per quarter.  Cash demands required for Series B Preferred Stock are expected to
 be 
approximately $0.3 million per quarter. 
 
During 2014, the Bank paid dividends of $244.0 million to the holding company. We anticipate that the Bank will declare 
additional dividends to the holding company in the first quarter of 2015.  To help meet any additional liquidity needs, we have
 an 
open-ended, automatic shelf registration statement filed and effective with the SEC, which permits us to issue an unspecified a
mount 
of debt or equity securities.  
  64 
With the exception of the items discussed above, the parent company does not have any significant cash demands.  It is our poli
cy to keep operating cash on hand at the parent company to satisfy cash demands for at least the next 18 months. Considering the f
actors discussed above, and other analyses that we have performed, we believe the parent company has sufficient liquidity to meet its 
cash flow obligations for the foreseeable future. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 In the normal course of business, we enter into various off-balance sheet arrangements. These arrangements include interest rat
e swaps, financial guarantees contained in standby letters-of-credit issued by the Bank, and commitments by the Bank to sell mort
gage 
loans.   INTEREST RATE SWAPS 
 
Balance sheet hedging activity is arranged to receive hedge accounting treatment and is classified as either fair value or cash
 flow hedges. Fair value hedges are purchased to convert deposits and subordinated and other long-term debt from fixed-rate obligatio
ns to floating rate. Cash flow hedges are also used to convert floating rate loans made to customers into fixed rate loans. See Note 
18 for 
more information. 

 STANDBY LETTERS-OF-CREDIT 
 Standby letters-of-credit are conditional commitments issued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These
 guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financin
g, 
and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature within two years and are expected to expire without being drawn upo
n. Standby letters-of-credit are included in the determination of the amount of risk-based capital that the parent company and the
 Bank are required to hold.  Through our credit process, we monitor 
the credit risks of outstanding standby letters-of-credit.  When 
it is probable that a standby letter-of-credit will be drawn and not repaid in full, a loss is recognized in the provision for credit
 losses.  See 
Note 20 for more information. 
 COMMITMENTS TO SELL LOANS 
 Activity relating to our mortgage origination activity supports the hedging of the mortgage pricing commitments to customers an
d the secondary sale to third parties. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, we had commitments to sell residential real es
tate loans of $545.0 million and $452.6 million, respectively.  These contracts mature in less than one year.  
 
We do not believe that off-balance sheet arrangements will have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.    
 Table 28 - Contractual Obligations (1) 
              December 31, 2014 
  One Year
1 to 3 3 to 5 More than
   (dollar amounts in millions) 
or Less 
Years 
Years 
5 Years 
 Total Deposits without a stated maturity 
$45,069$ ---$ --- $ --- 
$ 45,069Certificates of deposit and other time deposits 
 4,630 1,803 98  132 
 6,663
Short-term borrowings 
 2,397 --- ---  --- 
 2,397
Long-term debt 
 --- 2,453 1,126  757 
 4,336
Operating lease obligations  51 92 79  237 
 459
Purchase commitments 
 76 107 14  5 
 202
(1) 
Amounts do not include associated interest payments. 
               65 
Operational Risk  
 As with all companies, we are subject to operational risk.   Operational risk is the risk of loss due to human error; inadequat
e or failed internal systems and controls, including the use of financial or other quantitative methodologies that may not adequatel
y predict 
future results; violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards; and
 external 
influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters, and security risks.  We continuously strive to strength
en our system of internal controls to ensure compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, and to improve the oversight of our operati
onal risk.  
For example, we actively and continuously monitor cyber-attacks such as attempts related to online deception and loss of sensit
ive customer data.  We evaluate internal systems, processes and controls to mitigate loss from cyber-attacks and, to date, have not
 experienced any material losses.  In addition, we are investing significantly in an effort to minimize these risks.  
 
To mitigate operational risks, we have a senior management Operational Risk Committee and a senior management Legal, 
Regulatory, and Compliance Committee.  The responsibilities of these committees, among other duties, include establishing and 

maintaining management information systems to monitor material risks and to identify potential concerns, risks, or trends that 
may 
have a significant impact and ensuring that recommendations are developed to address the identified issues. In addition, we hav
e a senior management Model Risk Oversight Committee that is responsible for policies and procedures describing how model risk is 
evaluated and managed and the application of the governance process to implement these practices throughout the enterprise.  Th
ese 
committees report any significant findings and recommendations to the Risk Management Committee.  Potential concerns may be 

escalated to our ROC, as appropriate.   

 Our objective for cyber security is to recognize events and respond before the attacker has the opportunity to plan and execute
 on 
their goals.  To this end we employ strategies to make Huntington less attractive as a target, while investing in threat analyt
ic capabilities for rapid detection and response.  Potential concerns related to cyber security may be escalated to our Technology
 Committee, as appropriate.   

 The goal of this framework is to implement effective operational risk techniques and strategies, minimize operational and fraud
 losses, minimize the impact of inadequately designed models and enhance our overall performance. 
 Representation and Warranty Reserve 
 We primarily conduct our mortgage loan sale and securitization activity with FNMA and FHLMC.  In connection with these and 
other securitization transactions, we make certain representations and warranties that the loans meet certain criteria, such as
 collateral type and underwriting standards.  We may be required to repurchase individual loans and / or indemnify these organizations agai
nst losses due to a loan not meeting the established criteria.  We have a reserve for such losses and exposure, which is included i
n accrued 
expenses and other liabilities.  The reserves are estimated based on historical and expected repurchase activity, average loss 
rates, and 
current economic trends.  The level of mortgage loan repurchase
 losses depends upon economic fa
ctors, investor demand strategie
s and other external conditions containing a level of uncertainty and risk that may change over the life of the underlying loans.
  We 
currently do not have sufficient information to estimate the range of reasonably possible loss related to representation and wa
rranty 
exposure. 

    66 
The tables below reflect activity in the representations and warranties reserve: 
 Table 29 - Summary of Reserve for Representations and Warranties on Mortgage Loans Serviced for Others 
  Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 
Reserve for representations and warranties, beginning of year  $ 22,027$ 28,588$ 23,218 $ 20,171$ 5,916
Assumed reserve for representations and warranties  --- ------ --- 7,000
Reserve charges  (8,196) (12,513)(10,628)(8,711) (9,012)
Provision for representations and warranties  (1,154) 5,95215,998 11,758 16,267
Reserve for representations and warranties, end of year $ 12,677$ 22,027$ 28,588 $ 23,218$ 20,171
 Table 30 - Mortgage Loan Repurchase Statistics     
  Year Ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012  2011  
Number of loans sol
d  17,905 
 22,240  26,345   22,146
Amount of loans sold (UPB) $ 2,354,653 $ 3,255,732 $ 4,105,243  $ 3,170,903
Number of loans repurchased (1)  159  159  219   128
Amount of loans repurchased (UPB) (1) $ 18,482 $ 18,102 $ 29,123  $ 19,442
Number of claims receive
d  149  780  666   445
Successful dispute rate (2)  34% 46% 46 %  50%
Number of make whole payments (3)  122  167  167   72
Amount of make whole payments (3) $ 6,853 $ 11,445 $ 9,432  $ 5,553
(1)Loans repurchased are loans that fail to meet the purchaser's terms.  
(2)Successful disputes are a percent of close out requests. 
 (3)Make whole payments are payments to reimburse for losses on foreclosed properties.  
 Compliance Risk  
 Financial institutions are subject to many laws, rules, and regulations at both the federal and state levels. In September, for
 example, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency issued its final rule formalizing its ﬁheightened expectationsﬂ supervis
ory 
regime for the largest federally chartered depository institutions, including Huntington, to improve risk management and ensure
 boards can challenge decisions made by management.  These broa
d-based laws, rules and regulations
 include, but are not limited 
to, expectations relating to anti-money laundering, lending limits, client privacy, fair lending, prohibitions against unfair, dece
ptive or 
abusive acts or practices, protections for military members as they enter active duty, and community reinvestment.  Additionall
y, the 
volume and complexity of recent regulatory changes have increased our overall compliance risk.  As such, we utilize various 
resources to help ensure expectations are met, including a team of compliance experts dedicated to ensuring our conformance wit
h all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.  Our colleagues receive training for several broad-based laws and regulations includin
g, but not 
limited to, anti-money laundering and customer privacy.  Additionally, colleagues engaged in lending activities receive trainin
g for 
laws and regulations related to flood disaster protection, equal credit opportunity, fair lending, and / or other courses relat
ed to the 
extension of credit.  We set a high standard of expectation for adherence to compliance management and seek to continuously enh
ance our performance. 

 Capital 
 (This section should be read in conjunction with the Regulatory Matters section included in Part 1, Item 1 and Note 12 of the N
otes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements.)   
 Both regulatory capital and shareholders™ equ
ity are managed at the Bank and on a 
consolidated basis.  We have an active 
program for managing capital and maintain a comprehensive process for assessing the Company™s overall capital adequacy.  We 
believe our current levels of both regulatory capital and shareholders™ equity are adequate. 
    67 
Regulatory Capital 
 The following table presents risk-weighted assets and other financial data necessary to calculate certain financial ratios, inc
luding 
the Tier 1 common equity ratio on a Basel I basis, which we use to measure capital adequacy.  We estimate the negative impact t
o Tier I common risk-based capital from the 2015 first quarter implementation of the Federal Reserve™s final Basel III capital rules w
ill be approximately 40 bps on a fully phased-in basis. 

 Table 31 - Capital Adequacy 
              December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions) 
 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Consolidated capital calculations: 
      Common shareholders' equity 
 $5,942 $5,704 $5,393 $5,030 
 $4,612  Preferred shareholders' equity 
 386 386 386 386  363 Total shareholders' equity 
 6,328 6,090 5,779 5,416 
 4,975  Goodwill  (523) (444) (444) (444) (444)  Other intangible assets 
 (75) (93) (132) (175) (229)  Other intangible asset deferred tax liability
(1)  26 33 46 61  80 Total tangible equity
(2)  5,756 5,586 5,249 4,858 
 4,382  Preferred shareholders' equity 
 (386) (386) (386) (386) (363) Total tangible common equity
(2)  $5,370 $5,200 $4,863 $4,472 
 $4,019  Total assets 
 $66,298 $59,467 $56,141 $54,449 
 $53,814 Goodwill  (523) (444) (444) (444) (444) Other intangible assets 
 (75) (93) (132) (175) (229) Other intangible asset deferred tax liability
(1)  26 33 46 61  80Total tangible assets
(2)  $65,726 $58,963 $55,611 $53,891 
 $53,221         Tier 1 capital
(3)  $6,266 $6,100 $5,741 $5,557 
 $5,022  Preferred shareholders' equity 
 (386) (386) (386) (386) (363)  Trust-preferred securities 
 (304) (299) (299) (532) (570)  REIT-preferred stock 
 --- --- (50) (50) (50) Tier 1 common equity
(2) (3)  $5,576 $5,415 $5,006 $4,589 
 $4,039 Risk-weighted assets (RWA)
(3)  $54,479 $49,690 $47,773 $45,891 
 $43,471 Tier 1 common equity / RWA ratio
(2) (3)  10.23% 10.90% 10.48% 10.00 
% 9.29% Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(2)  8.76 9.47 9.44 9.01 
 8.23 Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(2)  8.17 8.82 8.74 8.30 
 7.55 Tangible common equity / RWA ratio
(2)  9.86 10.46 10.18 9.74 
 9.25 (1)Intangible assets are net of deferred tax liability and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(2)Tangible equity, Tier 1 common equity, tangible common equity, and tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures.  
Additionally, any ratios utilizing these financial measures are also non-GAAP.  These financial measures have been included as 
they 
are considered to be critical metrics with which to analyze and evaluate financial condition and capital strength.  Other compa
nies may calculate these financial measures differently. 
(3)In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filings f
or 
newly adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 common equity, and risk-weighted assets have not been 
updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01.   
     68 
The following table presents certain regulatory capital data at both the consolidated and Bank levels for the past five years: 
  Table 32 - Regulatory Capital Data (1) 
                    At December 31, 
 (dollar amounts in millions) 
  2014 2013 2012 2011 2010               Total risk-weighted assets 
Consolidated 
$54,479$49,690$47,773$45,891 
$43,471   Bank 54,387 49,60947,67645,651 
43,281 Tier 1 risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
6,266 6,1005,7415,557 
5,022   Bank 6,136 5,6825,0034,245 
3,683 Tier 2 risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
1,122 1,1391,1871,221 
1,263   Bank 820 8381,0911,508 
1,866 Total risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
7,388 7,2396,9286,778 
6,285   Bank 6,956 6,5206,0945,753 
5,549 Tier 1 leverage ratio 
Consolidated 
 9.74% 10.67% 10.36% 10.28 
% 9.41%   Bank  9.56 9.97 9.05 7.89 
 6.97 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 11.50 12.28 12.02 12.11 
 11.55   Bank  11.28 11.45 10.49 9.30 
 8.51 Total risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 13.56 14.57 14.50 14.77 
 14.46   Bank  12.79 13.14 12.78 12.60 
 12.82          (1) In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filings 
for newly 
adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, regulatory capital data has not been updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01. 
 The decreases in the capital ratios were due to balance sheet growth and share repurchases that were partially offset by retain
ed earnings and the 8.7 million common shares issued in the Camco Financial acquisition.  Specifically, all capital ratios were im
pacted by the repurchase of 35.7 million common shares in 2014.   
 Shareholders™ Equity 
 We generate shareholders™ equity primarily through the retention of earnings, net of dividends. Other potential sources of 
shareholders™ equity include issuances of common and preferred stock.  Our objective is to maintain capital at an amount 
commensurate with our risk profile and risk tolerance objectives, to meet both regulatory and market expectations, and to provi
de the 
flexibility needed for future growth and business opportunities.  Shareholders™ equity totaled $6.3 billion at December 31, 201
4, 
representing a $0.2 billion, or 4%, increase compared with December 31, 2013, primarily due to an increase in retained earnings
 offset by share repurchases.   
 Dividends 
 We consider disciplined capital management as a key objective, with dividends representing one component.  Our strong capital 
ratios and expectations for continued earnings growth positions us to continue to actively explore additional capital managemen
t opportunities.  
 On January 22, 2015, our board of director
s declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0
6 per common share, payable on April 1, 
2015.  Also, cash dividends of $0.06 per common share were declared on October 15, 2014, and $0.05 per common share were 

declared on  July 16, 2014, April 16, 2014 and January 16, 2014.   Our 2014 capital plan to the FRB included the continuation o
f our 
current common dividend through the 2015 first quarter.  
 On January 22, 2015, our board of directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend on our 8.50% Series A Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock of $21.25 per share.  The dividend is payable on April 15, 2015.  Cash dividends of $21.2
5 per share were also declared on Octo
ber 15, 2014, July 16, 2014, April 16, 2014 an
d January 16, 2014. 
    69 
On January 22, 2015, our board of directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend on our Floating Rate Series B Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of $7.38 per share.  The dividend is payable on April 15, 2015.  Also, cash dividends of $
7.33, $7.33, $7.32 and $7.35 per 
share were declared on October 
15, 2014, July 16, 2014, April 
16, 2014 and January 16, 2014, 
respectively.   
 Share Repurchases 
  From time to time the board of directors authorizes the Compan
y to repurchase shares of our common stock.  Although we 
announce when the board of directors authorizes share repurchases, we typically do not give any public notice before we repurch
ase 
our shares.  Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market repurchases, including block transactions, accelerated or d
elayed block transactions, forward transactions, and similar transactions.  Various factors determine the amount and timing of our sha
re repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisi
tions, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal considerations, including the FRB™s resp
onse to 
our capital plan.  
 On March 26, 2014, Huntington announced that the Federal Reserve did not object to Huntington's proposed capital actions 
included in Huntington's capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 2014. These actions included a potential repu
rchase 
of up to $250 million of common stock from th
e second quarter of 2014 through the first quarter of 2015. Huntington™s board of 
directors authorized a share repurchase program consistent with Huntington™s capital plan.  This repurchase authorization repre
sents a 
$23 million, or 10%, increase from the prior common stock repurchase authorization.  During 2014, we repurchased 35.7 million 
shares, with a weighted average price of $9.37. Purchases of common stock may include open market purchases, privately negotiat
ed transactions, and accelerated repurchase programs.   We have approximately $51.7 million remaining under the current authorizat
ion. 
 BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION 
 Overview 
 Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and 
assess performance.  During the 2014 first quarter, we reorganized our business segments to drive our ongoing growth and levera
ge 
the knowledge of our highly experienced team.  We now have five major business segments: Retail and Business Banking, 

Commercial Banking, Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate (AFCRE), Regional Banking and The Huntington Private 
Client Group (RBHPCG), and Home Lending.  A Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated 
assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.  All periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the current period class
ification.  Business segment results are determined based upon our management reporting system, which assigns balance sheet and income 
statement items to each of the business segments.  The process is designed around our organizational and management structure a
nd, accordingly, the results derived are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by other financial instituti
ons.   
 Revenue Sharing 
 Revenue is recorded in the business segment responsible for the related product or service.  Fee sharing is recorded to allocat
e portions of such revenue to other business segments involved in selling to, or providing service to customers.  Results of oper
ations for the business segments reflect these fee sharing allocations. 
 Expense Allocation 
 The management accounting process that develops the business segment reporting utilizes various estimates and allocation 
methodologies to measure the performance of the business segments.  Expenses are allocated to business segments using a two-pha
se approach.  The first phase consists of measuring and assigning unit costs (activity-based costs) to activities related to produ
ct origination and servicing.  These activity-based costs are then extended, based on volumes, with the resulting amount allocated
 to business segments that own the related products.  The second phase consists of the allocation of overhead costs to all five bus
iness 
segments from Treasury / Other.  We utilize a full-allocation methodology, where all Treasury / Other expenses, except reported
 Significant Items, and a small amount of other residual unallocated expenses, are allocated to the five business segments.   
    70 
Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP) 
 We use an active and centralized FTP methodology to attribute appropriate income to the business segments. The intent of the 
FTP methodology is to transfer interest rate risk from the business segments by providing matched duration funding of assets an
d liabilities. The result is to centralize the financial impact, management, and reporting of interest rate risk in the Treasury 
/ Other 
function where it can be centrally monitored and managed. The Treasury / Other function charges (credits) an internal cost of f
unds 
for assets held in (or pays for funding provided by) each business segment. The FTP rate is based on prevailing market interest
 rates 
for comparable duration assets (or liabilities).  
 Net Income by Business Segment 
 The segregation of net income by business segment for the past three years is presented in the following table: 
 Table 33 - Net Income by Business Segment 
          
  Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 
Retail and Business Banking $ 172,199$128,973$139,016
Commercial Banking  152,653129,962155,197
AFCRE  196,377220,433205,928
RBHPCG  22,01039,50216,922
Home Lending  (19,727)2,67045,285

Treasury / Other  108,880119,74268,942
Net income  $ 632,392$641,282$631,290
        
 Treasury / Other 
 The Treasury / Other function includes revenue and expense related to assets, liabilities, and equity not directly assigned or 
allocated to one of the five business segments.  Other assets include investment securities and bank owned life insurance.  The
 financial impact associated with our FTP methodology, as described above, is also included.  
 Net interest income includes the impact of administering our investment securities portfolios and the net impact of derivatives
 used to hedge interest rate sensitivity. Noninterest income includes miscellaneous fee income not allocated to other business s
egments, 
such as bank owned life insurance income and any investment security and trading asset gains or losses. Noninterest expense inc
ludes 
certain corporate administrative, merger, and other miscellaneous expenses not allocated to other business segments. The provis
ion for income taxes for the business segments is calculated at a statutory 35% tax rate, though our overall effective tax rate is lowe
r. As a 
result, Treasury / Other reflects a credit for income taxes representing the difference between the lower actual effective tax 
rate and the 
statutory tax rate used to allocate income taxes to the business segments. 
 Optimal Customer Relationship (OCR) 
 Our OCR strategy is focused on building and deepening relationships with our customers through superior interactions, product 
penetration, and quality of service.  We will deliver high-quality customer and prospect interactions through a fully integrate
d sales culture which will include all partners necessary to deliver a total Huntington solution  The quality of our relationships will
 lead to our 
ability to be the primary bank for our customers,  yielding quality, annuitized revenue and profitable share of customers overa
ll financial services revenue. We believe our relationship oriented approach will drive a competitive advantage through our local 
market 
delivery channels.   
 CONSUMER OCR PERFORMANCE 
 For consumer OCR performance there are three key performance metrics: (1) the number of checking account households, (2) the 
number of product penetration per consumer 
checking household, and (3) the revenue gene
rated from the consumer households of al
l business segments.  
 
The growth in consumer checking account number of households is
 a result of both new sales of
 checking accounts and improved 
retention of existing checking account households.  The overall objective is to grow the number of households, along with an in
crease 
in product penetration. 
  71 
We use the checking account since it typically represents the primary banking relationship product. We count additional service
s by type, not number of services. For example, a household that has one checking account and one mortgage, we count as having tw
o services. A household with four checking accounts, we count as having one service. The household relationship utilizing four or
 more 
services is viewed to be more profitable and loyal. The overall objective, therefore, is to decrease the percentage of 1-3 serv
ices per 
consumer checking account household, while increasing the percentage of those with 4 or more services. Since we have made 
significant strides toward having the vast majority of our customers with 4+ services, during the 2013 second quarter, we chang
ed our 
measurement to 6+ services. We are holding ourselves to a higher performance standard.  
 The following table presents consumer checking account household OCR metrics: 
 Table 34 - Consumer Checking Household OCR Cross-sell Report    
   
 Year ended December 31 
 2014 2013 2012 
Number of households (2) (3)  1,454,402  1,324,971
 1,228,812  
Product Penetration by Number of Services (1)    
   1 Service  2.8%  3.0%  3.1 % 
2-3 Services  17.9  19.2 18.6  

4-5 Services  29.9  30.2 31.1  
6+ Services  49.4  47.6 47.2  
Total revenue 
(in millions)
 $ 1,017.0
$ 948.1$ 983.4 
 (1) The definitions and measurements used in our OCR process are periodically reviewed and updated prospectively.  
(2) On March 1, 2014, Huntington acquired 9,904 Camco Financial households.  
(3) On September 12, 2014, Huntington acquired 37,939 Bank of America households.  
          
Our emphasis on cross-sell, coupled with customers being attracted by the benefits offered through our ﬁFair Playﬂ banking 
philosophy with programs such as 24-Hour Grace® on overdrafts and Asterisk-Free CheckingŽ, are having a positive effect.  The 
percent of consumer households with 6 or more products services at the end of 2014 was 49.4%, up from 47.6% at the end of last 
year.  For 2014, consumer checking account households grew 10%.  Total consumer checking account household revenue in 2014 was 
$1,017.0 million, up $68.9 million, or 7%, from 2013. 
 COMMERCIAL OCR PERFORMANCE 
 For commercial OCR performance, there are three key performance metrics: (1) the number of commercial relationships, (2) the 
number of services penetration per commercial relationship, and (3) the revenue generated.  Commercial relationships include 
relationships from all business segments.   
 
The growth in the number of commercial relationships is a result of both new sales of checking accounts and improved retention 
of existing commercial accounts.  The overall objective is to grow the number of relationships, along with an increase in produ
ct service distribution. 
 The commercial relationship is defined as a business banking or commercial banking customer with a checking account 
relationship.  We use this metric because we believe that the checking account anchors a business relationship and creates the 

opportunity to increase our cross-sell.  Multiple sales of the same type of service are counted as one service, the same as con
sumer. 
    72 
The following table presents commercial relationship OCR metrics:
Table 35 - Commercial Relationship OCR Cross-sell Report 
           
  Year ended December 31, 
 2014 2013 2012 
Commercial Relationships (1)  164,726 159,716 151,083 
 Product Penetration by Number of Services (2)    
 1 Service  15.7% 21.1%  24.6 %

2-3 Services  42.4 41.4 40.4 
 4+ Services  41.9 37.5 35.0 
 Total revenue 
(in millions)
 $ 851.0$ 738.5$ 724.4  
(1) Checking account required. 
 (2) The definitions and measurements used in our OCR process are periodically reviewed and updated prospectively. 
 By focusing on targeted relationships we are able to achieve higher product service penetration among our commercial 
relationships, and leverage these relationships to generate a deeper share of wallet.  The percent of commercial relationships 
with 4 or more product services at the end of 2014 was 41.9%, up from 37.5% at the end of last year.  Total commercial relationship reven
ue in 
2014 was $851.0 million, up $1
12.5 million, or
 15%, from 2013. 
  73 
Retail and Business Banking  Table 36 -Key Performance Indicators for Retail and Business Banking 
                       Change from 2013 
  (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted) 
2014 
2013 
Amount 
Percent 
 2012 
Net interest income 
$912,992
 $902,526
 $10,466 
 1 
%  $941,844
Provision for credit losses 75,529
 137,978
 (62,449)
 (45)
  135,102
Noninterest income 
409,746
 398,065
 11,681 
 3 
  380,820
Noninterest expense 982,288
 964,193
 18,095 
 2 
  973,691
Provision for income taxes 
92,722
 69,447
 23,275 
 34 
  74,855
Net income  
$172,199
 $128,973
 $43,226 
 34 
%  $139,016
Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
5,239
 5,212
 27 
 1 %  5,075
Total average assets
 (in millions)
 $14,861
 $14,371
 $490 
 3   $14,299
Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
 13,034
 12,638
 396 
 3   12,696
Total average deposits 
(in millions)
 29,023
 28,309
 714 
 3   28,020
Net interest margin 
3.19
% 3.22
% (0.03)
% (1)
  3.37
% NCOs $90,628
 $131,377
 $(40,749)
 (31)
  $176,213
NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
0.70
% 1.04
% (0.34)
% (33)
  1.39
% Return on average common equity 
12.6
 9.0
 3.6 
 40 
  9.8
     2014 vs. 2013 
 Retail and Business Banking reported net income of $172.2 million in 2014.  This was an increase of $43.2 million, or 34%, 
compared to the year-ago period.  The increase in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $0.7 billion, or 3%, increase in total average deposits. 
  $0.4 billion, or 3% increase in average total loans.  
 Partially offset by:   3 basis point decrease in the net interest margin, primarily due to assigned fund transfer price rates.  
 The decrease in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
  A $40.7 million, or 31%, decrease in NCOs, combined with improved credit metrics on business banking and consumer 
loans. 
 The increase in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $275 million, or 3%, increase in consumer loans, primarily due to growth in home equity lines of credit, credit cards, and 
residential mortgages, as well as the impact of the Camco Financial acquisition. 
  $121 million, or 3%, increase in commercial loans, primarily due to C&I loan growth and the impact of the Camco Financial 
acquisition.     74 
The increase in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $237 million deposit growth from our In-store branch network. 
  A continued focus on product mix in reducing the overall cost of deposits as evidenced by an increase in money market and 
noninterest bearing deposits, partially offset by a decrease in core certificates of deposit. In addition, the acquisition of 
Camco Financial and 24 Bank of America branches contributed to the deposit increase.  
 The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $12.8 million, or 14%, increase in electronic banking income, primarily due to strong consumer household growth combined 
with increased consumer card activity. 
  $3.6 million, or 15%, increase in other income, primarily due to various branch transaction based fees.  
  $2.9 million, or 19%, increase in gain on sa
le of loans, primarily due to the increased
 origination and sale
 of SBA loans.  
 Partially offset by:   $8.0 million, or 36%, decrease in mortgage banking fee share income.  
 The increase in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $28.3 million, or 7%, increase in other noninterest expense, primarily due to increased allocated overhead expenses.   
  $5.2 million, or 14%, increase in outside data processing and other services expense, mainly the result of transaction costs 
associated with card activity. 
  $3.9 million, or 11%, increase in equipment expense, primarily due to technology investments. 
 Partially offset by:   $10.4 million, or 4%, decrease in personnel costs, primarily due to the pension plan curtailment in 2013, branch 
consolidations, and various efficiency improvement initiatives also contributed to the decrease in personnel costs. 
  $7.1 million, or 46%, reduction in deposit and other insurance. 
  $1.5 million, or 3%, reduction in marketing, primarily due to reduced direct mail advertising.  
 2013 vs. 2012 
 Retail and Business Banking reported net income of $129.0 million in 2013, compared with a net income of $139.0 million in 
2012.  The $10.0 million decrease included a $39.3 million, or 4%, decrease in net interest income, partially offset by a $17.2
 million, 
or 5%, increase noninterest income, and a $9.5 million, or 1%, decrease in noninterest expense. 
 75 
Commercial Banking 
 Table 37 - Key Performance Indicators for Commercial Banking 
          Change from 2013 
  (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted) 
2014 
2013 
Amount 
Percent 
 2012 
Net interest income 
$306,434
 $281,461
 $24,973 
 9 %  $294,333
 Provision for credit losses  31,521
  27,464
  4,057 
 15 
   4,602
 Noninterest income 
 209,238
  200,573
  8,665 
 4    197,191
 Noninterest expense  249,300
  254,629
  (5,329)
 (2)
   248,157
 Provision for income taxes 
 82,198
  69,979
  12,219 
 17 
   83,568
 Net income 
$152,653
 $129,962
 $22,691 
 17 
%  $155,197
 Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
 1,026  1,072  (46) (4)%   1,023
 Total average assets
 (in millions)
 $14,145 $11,821 $2,324  20   $10,986
 Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
  11,901  10,804  1,097  10    9,913
 Total average deposits 
(in millions)
  10,207  9,429  778  8    9,033
 Net interest margin 
 2.53%  2.72%  (0.19)% (7)   2.88
% NCOs $7,852 $(196) $8,048  N.
R  $30,497
 NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
 0.07%  ---%  0.07 % ---    0.31
% Return on average common equity 
 10.6  11.1  (0.5) (5)   16.7
 N.R. - Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a net recovery in prior period compared with net loss in current period. 
   2014 vs. 2013  
 Commercial Banking reported net income of $152.7 million in 2014.  This was an increase of $22.7 million, or 17%, compared to 
the year-ago period.  The increase in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $1.1 billion, or 10%, increase in average loans/leases. 
  $0.9 billion, or 906%, increase in average available-for-sale securities, primarily related to direct purchase municipal 
securities. 
  $0.8 billion, or 8%, increase in average total deposits. 
 Partially offset by:   19 basis point decrease in the net interest margin, primarily due to a 9 basis point compression in commercial loan spreads, 
driven by a 6 basis point compression stemming from growth in the international portfolio with products such as bankers 
acceptances and foreign insured receivables, as well as compressed deposit margins resulting from declining rates and 
reduced FTP rates.  
 The increase in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
  An increase related to loan growth and an $8.0 million increase in NCOs. The increase in NCOs primarily reflects a net 
recovery in the prior year and the return to net charge-offs in 2014. 
    76 
The increase in total average assets from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $0.9 billion increase in available-for-sale securities driven from the addition of direct purchase municipal instruments. These
 instruments had been classified as C&I loans until December 31, 2013.  
  $0.6 billion, or 472%, increase in the international loan portfolio, primarily bankers acceptances and foreign insured 
receivables. 
  $0.5 billion, or 100%, increase in the asset based lending portfolio average balance, which was transferred from the AFCRE 
segment retroactive to the beginning of 2014. 
 The increase in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $1.1 billion, or 13%, increase in core deposits.  Middle market accounts, such as not-for-profit universities and healthcare, 
primarily contributed to the balance growth. 
 Partially offset by: 
  $0.3 billion, or 45%, decrease in brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs. 
 The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $9.9 million, or 100%, increase in fee income associated with the asset based lending portfolio, which was transferred from 
the AFCRE segment retroactive to the beginning of 2014. 
  $4.2 million, or 9%, increase in service charges on deposit accounts and other treasury management related revenue, 
primarily due to a new commercial card product implemented in 2013, as well as strong core cash management growth. 
 Partially offset by:   $5.6 million, or 16%, decrease in commitment and other loan related fees primarily reflecting a significant syndication fee in 
2013. 
 The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $6.6 million, or 15%, decrease in allocated overhead expense. 
  $5.3 million, or 42%, decrease in deposit and other insurance expense. 
 Partially offset by:   $6.6 million, or 100%, increase in noninterest expense associated with the asset based lending portfolio, which was 
transferred from the AFCRE segment retroactive to the beginning of 2014. 
 2013 vs. 2012 
 Commercial Banking reported net inco
me of $130.0 million in 2013, 
compared with net income of $155.2 mil
lion in 2012.  The 
$25.2 million decrease included a $22.9 million, or 497%, increase in provision for credit losses, a $12.9 million, or 4%, decr
ease in net interest income, and a $6.5 million, or 3%, increase in 
noninterest expense partially offset by $13.6 million, or 16%, decr
ease in 
provision for income taxes, and a $3.4 million, or 2%, increase in noninterest income. 

  77 
Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
 Table 38 - Key Performance Indicators for Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
           Change from 2013 
  (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted) 
2014 
2013 
Amount 
Percent 
 2012 
Net interest income 
$379,363
 $366,508
 $12,855 
 4 %  $369,376
 Provision (reduction in allowance) for credit losses 
(52,843)
 (82,269)
 29,426 
 (36)
  (16,557)
 Noninterest income 
26,628
 46,819
 (20,191)
 (43)
  91,314
 Noninterest expense 156,715
 156,469
 246 
 --- 
  160,434
 Provision for income taxes 
105,742
 118,694
 (12,952)
 (11)
  110,885
 Net income  
$196,377
 $220,433
 $(24,056)
 (11)
%  $205,928
 Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
271 285 (14)
 (5)
%  287 Total average assets 
(in millions)
 $14,591
 $12,981
 $1,610 
 12 
  $12,717
 Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
 14,224
 12,391
 1,833 
 15 
  11,677
 Total average deposits
 (in millions)
 1,204
 1,039
 165 
 16 
  967 Net interest margin 
2.61
% 2.82
% (0.21)
% (7)
  2.87
% NCOs $2,100
 $29,137
 $(27,037)
 (93)
  $83,043
 NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
0.01
% 0.24
% (0.23)
% (96)
  0.71
% Return on average common equity 
32.4
 36.9
 (4.5)
 (12)
  32.5
  2014 vs. 2013 
 AFCRE reported net income of $196.4 million in 2014.  This was a decrease of $24.1 million, or 11%, compared to the year-ago 
period. The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $2.0 billion, or 35%, increase in automobile loans and leases, primarily due to continued strong origination volume which 
totaled $5.2 billion for the year, up 24% from $4.2 billion a year ago. 
 Partially offset by:  21 basis point decrease in the net interest margin, primarily due to an 20 basis point reduction in loan spreads. This decline 
primarily reflects the impact of competitive pricing pressures in all of our portfolios, partially offset by a $5.1 million, or
 4 basis points, recovery in 2014 from the unexpected pay-off of an acquired commercial real estate loan.
   $0.3 billion, or 100%, decrease in asset based lending portfolio average balances which were transferred to the Commercial 
Banking segment retroactive to the beginning of 2014.  
  The decrease in the provision (reduction in allowance) for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
  Less improvement in credit quality than what was experienced in the year-ago period, reflecting a 23 basis point decline in 
NPA/loans in the current period compared to a 51 basis point decline in the year-ago period, partially offset by lower NCOs. 
 The decrease in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $18.0 million, or 44%, decrease in other noninterest income, primarily due to a $8.6 million decrease in fee income 
associated with the asset based lending portfolio which was transferred to the Commercial Banking segment, as well as 
decreases in market related gains associated with certain loans and investments carried at fair value, operating lease related 
income and servicing income on securitized automobile loans. 
    78 
The increase in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $9.3 million, or 10%, increase in other noninterest expense, primarily due to a $12.5 million increase in allocated expenses, 
generally reflecting higher levels of business activity. 
 Partially offset by:  $4.2 million, or 33%, decrease in deposit and other insurance expense.
   $2.8 million, or 9%, decrease in personnel costs, primarily due to staffing associated with the asset based lending portfolio 
which was transferred to the Commercial Banking segment retroactive to the beginning of 2014.   
  $1.5 million, or 29%, decrease in professional services, primarily due to costs associated with the asset based lending 
portfolio in 2013.  2013 vs. 2012 
 AFCRE reported net income of $220.4 million 
in 2013, compared with a net income of
 $205.9 million in
 2012. The $14.5 million 
increase included a $65.7 million, or 397%, increase in the reduction in allowance for credit losses, a $4.0 million, or 2%, de
crease in 
noninterest expense partially offset by a $44.5 million, or 49%, decr
ease in noninterest income, and a $2.9 million, or less th
an 1%, decrease in net interest income. 

  79 
Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group 
 Table 39 - Key Performance Indicators for Regional 
Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group 
          Change from 2013 
  (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted) 
2014 
2013 
Amount 
Percent 
 2012 
Net interest income 
$101,839
 $105,862
 $(4,023)
 (4)
%  $104,329
 Provision (reduction in allowance) for credit losses 
 4,893
  (5,376)
  10,269 
 N.R.   6,044
 Noninterest income 
 173,550
  186,430
  (12,880)
 (7)
   181,650
 Noninterest expense   236,634
  236,895
  (261)
 --- 
   253,901
 Provision for income taxes 
 11,852
  21,271
  (9,419)
 (44)
   9,112
 Net income 
$22,010
 $39,502
 $(17,492)
 (44)
%  $16,922
 Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
 1,022
  1,065
  (43)
 (4)
%   1,101
 Total average assets 
(in millions)
 $3,812
 $3,732
 $80 
 2   $3,590
 Total average loans/leases 
(in millions)
  2,894
  2,832
  62 
 2    2,704
 Total average deposits (in millions) 
 6,029
  5,765
  264 
 5    5,630
 Net interest margin 
 1.75
%  1.90
%  (0.15)
% (8)
   1.89
% NCOs $8,143
 $11,094
 $(2,951)
 (27)
  $19,898
 NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
 0.28
%  0.39
%  (0.11)
% (28)
   0.74
% Return on average common equity 
 4.4
  7.9
  (3.5)
 (44)
   3.3
 Total assets under management 
(in billions) - eop
 $14.8 
$16.7 
$(1.9) (11)  
$15.9
 Total trust assets (in billions) - eop
  81.5  80.9  0.6  1    73.9
 N.R. - Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a reduction in allowance in prior period compared with a provision increas
e in the current period.               
eop - End of Period. 
                2014 vs. 2013 
 RBHPCG reported net income of $22.0 million in 2014.  This was a decrease of $17.5 million, or 44%, when compared to the 
year-ago period. The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The decrease in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  15 basis point decrease in the net interest margin, primarily due to lower spreads on deposits. 
 Partially offset by:   $0.3 billion, or 5%, increase in average total deposits, primarily due to increased focus on deposit growth resulting from the 
alignment of private banking with the regional presidents. 
 The increase in provision for (reduction in allowance) credit losses reflected:  
  Less improvement in the underlying credit quality of the loan portfolio compared to year-ago period, partially offset by 
reduced level of NCOs. 
 The decrease in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $8.3 million, or 7%, decrease in trust services, primarily due to reduced proprietary mutual fund revenue related to a 
reduction in asset values and due to the sale of the fixed income funds. 
  $3.4 million, or 27%, decrease in other noninterest income, primarily due to a gain realized from LIHTC investment sales in 
the 2013. 
  $1.5 million, or 25%, decrease in service charges on deposit accounts. 
    80 
The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $2.7 million, or 4%, decrease in other noninterest expense, primarily due to a decrease in allocated expenses.  
  $1.5 million, or 41%, decrease in deposit and other insurance expense.  
 Partially offset by:   $2.5 million, or 66%, increase in professional services expense, primarily due to increased consulting fees. 
 2013 vs. 2012 
 RBHPCG reported net income of $39.5 million 
in 2013, compared with a net income of
 $16.9 million in 2012.  The $22.6 million 
increase included a $17.0 million, or 7%, decrease in noninterest expense, a $11.4 million, improvement in provision (reduction
 in 
allowance) for credit losses, a $4.8 million, or 3%, increase in noni
nterest income, and a $1.5 million, or 1%, increase in net
 interest income. This was partially offset by a $12.2 million, or 133% increase in provision for income taxes. 
 81 
Home Lending 
Table 40 - Key Performance Indicators for Home Lending 
    
                 
    Change from 2013 
  (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted) 
2014 
2013 
Amount 
Percent 
2012 
Net interest income 
$ 58,015
 $ 51,839
 $ 6,176 
 12 
%  $ 54,980
Provision for credit losses  21,889
  12,249
  9,640 
 79 
   18,198
Noninterest income 
 69,899
  106,006
  (36,107)
 (34)
   165,189
Noninterest expense  136,374
  141,489
  (5,115)
 (4)
   132,302
Provision for income taxes 
 (10,622)
  1,437
  12,059 
 N.R.   24,384
Net income (loss) 
$ (19,727)
 $ 2,670
 $ 22,397 
 N.R.%  $ 45,285
Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
 971 
 1,080
  (109)
 (10)
%   987
Total average assets
 (in millions)
 $ 3,810 
$ 3,676
 $ 134 
 4   $ 3,700
Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
  3,298 
 3,116
  182 
 6    3,164
Total average deposits 
(in millions)
  292 
 355
  (63)
 (18)
   378
Net interest margin 
 1.61% 
 1.50
%  0.11 
% 7    1.55%
NCOs $ 15,900 
$ 17,266
 $ (1,366)
 (8)
  $ 32,931
NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
 0.48% 
 0.55
%  (0.07)
% (13)
   1.04%
Return on average common equity 
 (11.4) 
 1.5
  12.9 
 N.R.   22.7
Mortgage banking origination volume (in millions) 
$ 3,558 
$ 4,418
 $ (860)
 (19)
  $ 4,833
  N.R. - Not relevant. 
 2014 vs. 2013 
 Home Lending reported a net loss of $19.7 
million in 2014.  This was a decrease of $22.4 
million, when compared to the year-ago
 period. The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  11 basis point increase in the net interest margin, primarily due to
 a 19 basis point increase in 
loan spreads.  This increase is primarily driven by lo
wer funding costs on 
the loan portfolio. 
  $0.2 billion, or 6%, increase in average total loans. 
 Partially offset by: 
  $0.1 billion, or 18%, decrease in average total deposits, driven by lower escrow balances. 
  The increase in provision for credit losses reflected:  
  The transfer of a $7.6 million loan portfolio to loans held-for-sale in 2014, partially offset by lower NCOs. 
 The decrease in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $32.9 million, or 33%, decrease in mortgage banking income, primarily due to a reduction in volume and gain on sale related 
to lower refinancing levels.   $2.7 million, or 52%, decrease in insurance income, primarily due to lower refinance volume related to title insurance 
referrals
.       82 
The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $7.1 million, or 8%, decrease in personnel costs, primarily due to lower mortgage production volume and a reduction in staff. 
  $2.0 million, or 9%, decrease in other noninterest expense, primarily due to lower mortgage repurchase expense and partially 
offset by the $3.0 million goodwill impairment.  
  $1.6 million, or 43%, decrease in deposit and other insurance expense. 
 Partially offset by:   $4.3 million, or 29%, increase in outside data processing and other services, primarily due to spending on loan promotions. 
 2013 vs. 2012 
 Home Lending reported net income of $2.7 million in 2013, compared with net income of $45.3 million in 2012.  The $42.6 
million decrease included a $59.2 million, or 36%, decrease in noninterest income, a $9.2 million, or 7%, increase in nonintere
st expense, and a $3.1 million, or 6%, decrease in net interest income partially offset by a $22.9 million, or 94%, decrease in pr
ovision 
for income taxes, and a $5.9, or 33%, decrease in provision for credit losses.  
  83 
 RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER  
 Earnings Discussion 
 In the 2014 fourth quarter, we repo
rted net income of $163.6 mi
llion, an increase of $5.4 mil
lion, or 3%, from the 2013 fourth 
quarter.  Earnings per common share for the 
2014 fourth quarter were $0
.19, an increase of $0.01 
from the year-ago quarter. 
 Table 41 - Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparison 
(dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts) 
                Impact
(1) Three Months Ended: Amount 
EPS
(2)  December 31, 2014 - GAAP net income 
$ 163.6 $ 0.19  Net additions to litigation reserve  (11.9)
  (0.01)
  Franchise repositioning related expense  
 (8.6)  (0.01)         December 31, 2013 - GAAP net income $ 158.2
 $0.18
  Franchise repositioning related expense  
 (6.7)  (0.01)(1) 
Favorable (unfavorable) impact on GAAP earnings; pretax unless otherwise noted. 
(2) 
After-tax.  EPS is reflected on a fully diluted basis. 
      Net Interest Income / Average Balance Sheet  FTE net interest income for the 2014 fourth quarter increased $41.9 million, or 10%, from the 2013 fourth quarter. This reflect
ed the benefit from the $7.0 billion, or 13%, increase in average earnings assets, including a $4.0 billion, or 9%, increase in av
erage loans 
and leases and a $3.0 billion, or 31%, increase in average securities. This earning asset growth was partially offset by the 10
 basis 
point decrease in the FTE NIM to 3.18%. The NIM contraction reflected a 17 basis point decrease related to the mix and yield of
 earning assets and a 3 basis point reduction in benefit from the impact of noninterest-bearing funds, partially offset by the 1
0 basis 
point reduction in funding costs. 

 Table 42 - Average Earning Assets
 - 2014 Fourth Quarter vs. 
2013 Fourth Quarter       
                        Fourth Quarter 
 Change (dollar amounts in millions) 
2014 2013  Amount 
Percent 
Average Loans/Leases          
  Commercial and industrial $ 18,880 $17,671 $1,2097%
  Commercial real estate  5,084  4,904  1804 
 Total commercial  23,964  22,575  1,3896 
  Automobile  8,512  6,502  2,01031 
  Home equity  8,452  8,346  1061 
  Residential mortgage  5,751  5,331  4208 
  Other consumer  413  385  287 
 Total consumer  23,128  20,564  2,56412 
Total loans/leases  47,092  43,139  3,9539 
Total securities  12,459  9,480  2,97931 
Held-for-sale and other earning assets  459  393  6617 

Total earning assets $ 60,010 $53,012 $6,99813%
    84 
The increase in average total earning assets reflected: 
  $3.0 billion, or 31%, increase in average securities, reflecting an increase of $1.5 billion of LCR Level 1 qualified securitie
s and $1.4 billion of direct purchase municipal instruments. At the end of the year-ago quarter $0.6 billion of direct-purchase 
municipal instruments were reclassified from C&I loans to securities.  
  $2.0 billion, or 31%, increase in average automobile loans, as originations remained strong.  
  $1.2 billion, or 7%, increase in average C&I loans and leases, primarily reflecting growth in trade finance in support of our 
middle market and corporate customers.  
  $0.4 billion, or 8%, increase in average Residential mortgage loans as a result of the Camco Financial acquisition and a 
decrease in the rate of payoffs due to lower levels of refinancing.  
 Table 43 - Average Interest-Bearing Liabilities - 2014 Fourth Quarter vs. 2013 Fourth Quarter           
             Fourth Quarter 
 Change (dollar amounts in millions) 
2014 2013  Amount 
Percent Average Deposits   
         Demand deposits: noninterest-bearing $ 15,179
$13,337
 $1,84214 %   Demand deposits: interest-bearing 5,948
 5,755
  1933   Total demand deposits 21,127
 19,092
  2,03511    Money market deposits 18,401
 16,827
  1,5749    Savings and other domestic deposits 5,052
 4,912
  1403    Core certificates of deposit 3,058
 3,916
  (858)(22)  Total core deposits  47,638
 44,747
  2,8916   Other domestic deposits of $250,000 or more  201
 275
  (74)(27)  Brokered deposits and negotiable CDs  2,434
 1,398
  1,03674   Deposits in foreign offices  479
 354
  12535  Total deposits  50,752
 46,774
  3,9789  Short-term borrowings  2,683
 1,471
  1,21282  Long-term debt  3,956
 2,253
  1,70376  Total interest-bearing liabilities $ 42,212
$37,161
 $5,05114 %      
        Average total core deposits for the 2014 fourth quarter increased $2.9 billion, or 6%, from the year-ago quarter, of which $1.1
 billion were acquired deposits. Noninterest-bearing deposits increased $1.8 billion, or 14%.  Average interest-bearing liabilit
ies increased $5.1 billion, or 14%, from the year-ago quarter, reflecting:  
  $2.9 billion, or 78%, increase in short- and long-term borrowings, primarily reflecting a cost-effective method of funding 
incremental LCR related securities growth.  
  $1.6 billion, or 9%, increase in money market deposits, reflecting the strategic focus on customer growth and increased share-
of-wallet among both consumer and commercial customers.  
  $1.0 billion, or 74%, increase in brokered deposits and negotiated CDs, which were used to efficiently finance balance sheet 
growth while continuing to manage the overall cost of funds.  
 Partially offset by:  
  $0.9 billion, or 22%, decrease in average core certificates of deposit due to the strategic focus on changing the funding 
sources to no-cost demand deposits and lower-cost money market deposits.  
    85 
Provision for Credit Losses 
 The provision for credit losses decreased $21.8 million to $2.5 million in the 2014 fourth quarter reflecting the current quart
er™s higher-than-expected level of commercial recoveries and 34% decrease in NALs within the CRE portfolio.  NCOs decreased to $23.0
 million with less than $1.0 million of NCOs within the total commercial portfolio. NCOs equated to an annualized 0.20% of avera
ge loans and leases in the current quarter compared to 0.43% in the year-ago quarter. 

 Noninterest Income 
 Table 44 - Noninterest Income - 2014 Fourth Quarter vs. 2013 Fourth Quarter 
            Fourth Quarter 
 Change (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013  Amount 
Percent 
 Service charges on deposit accounts $67,408$69,992
 $(2,584)(4) %  Trust services  28,78130,711
  (1,930)(6)   Electronic banking  27,99324,251
  3,74215   Mortgage banking income  14,03024,327
  (10,297)(42)   Brokerage income  16,05015,151
  8996   Insurance income  16,25215,556
  6964   Bank owned life insurance income  14,98813,816
  1,1728   Capital markets fees  13,79112,332
  1,45912   Gain on sale of loans  5,4087,144
  (1,736)(24)   Securities gains (losses)  (104)1,239
  (1,343)(108)   Other income  28,68135,373
  (6,692)(19)  Total noninterest income  $233,278$249,892
 $(16,614)(7) %         Noninterest income for the 2014 fourth quarter decreased $16.6 million, or 7%, from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting:
    $10.3 million, or 42%, decrease in mortgage banking income primarily related to the $5.8 million impact of net MSR 
hedging activity.  
  $6.7 million, or 19%, decrease in other income, primarily related to lower fees associated with commercial loan activity.  
  $2.6 million, or 4%, decrease in service charges on deposit accounts, reflecting the late July 2014 implementation of changes 
in consumer products that were partially offset by a 10% increase in consumer households and changing customer usage 
patterns.   Partially offset by:  
  $3.7 million, or 15%, increase in electronic banking due to higher card related income and underlying customer growth.  
   86 
Noninterest Expense 
 Table 45 - Noninterest Expense - 2014 Fourth Quarter vs. 2013 Fourth Quarter 
       Fourth Quarter 
 Change (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013  Amount 
Percent 
 Personnel costs 
$263,289
$249,554
 $13,7356 %  Outside data processing and other services 
 53,685
 51,071
  2,6145   Net occupancy 
 31,565
 31,983
  (418)(1)  Equipment  31,981
 28,775
  3,20611   Professional services 
 15,665
 11,567
  4,09835   Marketing 
 12,466
 13,704
  (1,238)(9)  Deposit and other insurance expense 
 13,099
10,056  3,04330   Amortization of intangibles 
 10,653
 10,320
  3333   Other expense 
 50,868
 38,979
  11,88931  Total noninterest expense 
$483,271
$446,009
 $37,2628 %  Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
 11,875
 11,765  1101 %            Impacts of Significant Items:  
Fourth Quarter 
   (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013     Personnel costs 
$2,165$52    Outside data processing and other services 
 306 880    Net occupancy 
 4,150 4,178    Equipment  2,003 846    Marketing 
 14 ---    Other expense 
 11,644 953   Total noninterest expense adjustments 
$20,282
$6,909
              Fourth Quarter 
 Change (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013  Amount 
Percent 
 Personnel costs 
$261,124
$249,502
 $11,6225 %  Outside data processing and other services 
 53,379
 50,191
  3,1886   Net occupancy 
 27,415
 27,805
  (390)(1)  Equipment  29,978
 27,929
  2,0497   Professional services 
 15,665
 11,567
  4,09835   Marketing 
 12,452
 13,704
  (1,252)(9)  Deposit and other insurance expense 
 13,099
10,056  3,04330   Amortization of intangibles 
 10,653
 10,320
  3333   Other expense 
 39,224
 38,026
  1,1983  Total adjusted noninterest expense 
$462,989
$439,100
 $23,8895 %           Reported noninterest expense for the 2014
 fourth quarter increased $3
7.3 million, or 8%, from the year-ago quarter, primarily 
reflecting:    $13.7 million, or 6%, increase in personnel costs. Excluding the impact of Significant Items, personnel costs increased $11.6 
million, or 5%, primarily related to a $9.0 million increase in salaries reflecting 1% increase in the number of full-time 
equivalent employees and a $3.8 million increase in health insurance costs.  
  $11.9 million, or 31%, increase in other expense. Excluding the impact of Significant Items, other expenses increased $1.2 
million, or 3%.  
  $4.1 million, or 35%, increase in professional services, reflecting an increase in outside consultant expenses and legal 
services.  
  87 
 $3.2 million, or 11%, increase in equipment. Excluding the impact of Significant Items, equipment expenses increased $2.0 
million, or 7%, primarily reflecting higher depreciation expense.  
 Provision for Income Taxes 
 The provision for income taxes in the 2014 fourth quarter was $57.2 million and $52.0 million in the 2013 fourth quarter. The 
effective tax rates for the 2014 fourth quar
ter and 2013 fourth quarter 
were 25.9% and 24.8%, resp
ectively. At December 31, 201
4, we 
had a net federal deferred tax asset of $72.1 million and a net state deferred tax asset of $45.3 million. As of December 31, 2
014 and 
December 31, 2013, there was no disallowed deferred tax asset for regulatory capital purposes. 
 Credit Quality  Credit quality performance in the 2014 fourth quarter reflected continued improvement in the overall loan portfolio relating to
 NCO activity, as well as in key credit quality metrics. 

 NCOs 
 Total NCOs for the 2014 fourth quarter were $23.0 million, or an annualized 0.20% of average total loans and leases.  NCOs in 
the year-ago quarter were $46.4 million, or an annualized 0.43%. These declines reflected improvement in the overall credit qua
lity of the portfolio.     

 NALs 
 NALs decreased $21.8 million, or 7%, compared to a year ago to $300.2 million, or 0.63% of total loans and leases.  NPAs 
decreased $14.4 million, or 4%, to $337.7 million, or 0.71% of total loans and leases, OREO, and other NPAs. 
 
ACL 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
ACL as a percent of total loans and leases at December 31, 2014, was 1.40%, down from 1.65% at December 31, 2013.  We 
believe the decline in the ratio is appropriate given the continued improvement in the risk profile of our loan portfolio.  Fur
ther, we 
believe that early identification of loans with changes in credit metrics and aggressive action plans for these loans, combined
 with originating high quality new loans will contribute to maintaining our key credit quality metrics.   
   88 
 Table 46 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data (1)             
  2014 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 
Fourth Third Second 
First  Interest income $507,625 $501,060 $495,322  $472,455
  Interest expense 
 34,373  34,725  35,274   34,949
 Net interest income 
 473,252  466,335  460,048   437,506
 Provision for credit losses 
 2,494  24,480  29,385   24,630
 Net interest inco
me after provision for credit losses 
 470,758  441,855  430,663   412,876
 Total noninterest income  
 233,278  247,349  250,067   248,485
 Total noninterest expense 
 483,271  480,318  458,636   460,121
 Income before income taxes  220,765  208,886  222,094   201,240
 Provision for income taxes  57,151  53,870  57,475   52,097
 Net income $163,614 $155,016 $164,619  $149,143
 Dividends on preferred shares 
 7,963  7,964  7,963   7,964
 Net income applicable to common shares 
$155,651 $147,052 $156,656  $141,179
 Common shares outstanding 
       
  Average - basic  811,967  816,497  821,546   829,659 
 Average - diluted(2)  825,338  829,623  834,687   842,677 
 Ending 
 811,455  814,454  817,002   827,772
  Book value per common share 
$7.32 $7.24 $7.17  $6.99
  Tangible book value per common share
(3)  6.62  6.53  6.48   6.31
     Per common share         
 Net income - basic 
$0.19 $0.18 $0.19  $0.17
  Net income - diluted 
 0.19  0.18  0.19   0.17
  Cash dividends declared 
 0.06  0.05  0.05   0.05
 Common stock price, per share         
 High(4) $10.74 $10.30 $10.29  $10.01
  Low(4)  8.80  9.29  8.89   8.72
  Close  10.52  9.73  9.54   9.97
  Average closing price 
 9.97 9.79 9.41  9.50
 Return on average total assets  1.00%0.97%1.07 % 1.01
%Return on average common shareholders' equity  10.3 9.9 10.8  9.9
 Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity
(5)  11.9 11.4 12.4  11.4
 Efficiency ratio
(6)
  66.2 65.3 62.7  66.4
 Effective tax rate 
 25.9 25.8 25.9  25.9
 Margin analysis-as a % of average earning assets
(7)        
  Interest income(7)
  3.41% 3.44% 3.53 %  3.53
% Interest expense 
 0.23  0.24  0.25   0.26
  Net interest margin 
(7)  3.18% 3.20% 3.28 %  3.27
%Revenue - FTE         
 Net interest income  $473,252 $466,335 $460,048  $437,506 
 FTE adjustment 
 7,522  7,506  6,637   5,885
 Net interest income
(7)  480,774  473,841  466,685   443,391
 Noninterest income 
 233,278  247,349  250,067   248,485
 Total revenue 
(7) $714,052 $721,190 $716,752  $691,876
 Continued 
           
  89 
Table 47 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement, Capital, and Other Data - Continued (1)    
    Capital adequacy 
2014  December 31, 
September 30, 
June 30, March 31, 
          Total risk-weighted assets 
(in millions)
 $54,479 $53,239 $53,035  $ 51,120
 Tier 1 leverage ratio
(10)  9.74%  9.83%  10.01 %  10.32
% Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
(10)  11.50  11.61  11.56   11.95
 Total risk-based capital ratio
(10)  13.56  13.72  13.67   14.13
 Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio
(11)  10.23  10.31  10.26   10.60
 Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(8)  8.17  8.35  8.38   8.63
 Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(9)  8.76  8.95  8.99   9.26
 Tangible common equity / risk-weighted assets ratio 
 9.86  9.99  9.99   10.22
  90 
Table 48 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data (1)  
  2013 (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 
Fourth Third 
Second First  Interest income $469,824
 $462,912 $462,582 
 $465,319 Interest expense 
 39,175
  38,060  37,645 
  41,149 Net interest income 
 430,649
  424,852  424,937 
  424,170 Provision for credit losses 
 24,331
  11,400  24,722 
  29,592 Net interest income after provision for credit losses 
 406,318
  413,452  400,215 
  394,578 Total noninterest income  
 249,892  253,767  251,919   256,618
 Total noninterest expense 
 446,009
  423,336  445,865 
  442,793 Income before income taxes  210,201  243,883  206,269   208,403
 Provision for income taxes  52,029  65,047  55,269   55,129
 Net income 
$158,172 $178,836 $151,000  $153,274
 Dividends on preferred shares 
 7,965
  7,967  7,967 
  7,970 Net income applicable to common shares 
$150,207 $170,869 $143,033  $145,304
 Common shares outstanding 
         Average - basic  830,590
  830,398  834,730 
  841,103  Average - diluted(2)  842,324
  841,025  843,840 
  848,708  Ending  830,963  830,145  829,675   838,758 
 Book value per share 
$6.86 $6.70 $6.49  
$6.52
  Tangible book value per share
(3)  6.26  6.09  5.87  
 5.90
         
  Per common share          Net income - basic 
$0.18
 $0.21 $0.17 
 $0.17  Net income  - diluted 
 0.18
  0.20  0.17 
  0.17  Cash dividends declared 
 0.05
  0.05  0.05 
  0.04           Common stock price, per share 
         High(4) $9.73
 $8.78
 $7.96 
 $7.55
  Low(4)  8.04
  7.90
  6.82 
  6.48
  Close  9.65
  8.26
  7.87 
  7.37
  Average closing price 
 8.98
 8.45 7.46 
 7.07 Return on average total assets 
 1.09
%1.27%1.08 
% 1.12%Return on average common shareholders' equity 
 10.5
 12.3 10.4 
 10.8 Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity
(5)  12.1
 14.2 12.1 
 12.5 Efficiency ratio
(6)
  63.4
 60.3 63.7 
 62.9 Effective tax rate (benefit) 
 24.8
 26.7 26.8 
 26.5 Margin analysis-as a % of average earning assets
(7)          Interest income(7)
  3.58% 3.64% 3.68 %  3.75
% Interest expense 
 0.30  0.30  0.30   0.33
  Net interest margin 
(7)  3.28% 3.34% 3.38 %  3.42
%Revenue - FTE         
 Net interest income  
$430,649 $424,852 $424,937  $424,170 
 FTE adjustment  8,196  6,634  6,587   5,923 
Net interest income
(7)  438,845  431,486  431,524   430,093 
Noninterest income 
 249,892  253,767  251,919   256,618 
Total revenue 
(7) $688,737 $685,253 $683,443  $686,711 
Continued 
             91 
Table 49 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement, Capital, and Other Data - Continued (1)  
             Capital adequacy 
2013  December 31, 
September 30, 
June 30, March 31, 
          Total risk-weighted assets 
(in millions)
 $49,690 $48,687 $48,080  $47,937
 Tier 1 leverage ratio
(10)  10.67%  10.85%  10.64 %  10.57
% Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
(10)  12.28  12.36  12.24   12.16
 Total risk-based capital ratio
(10)  14.57  14.67  14.57   14.55
 Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio
(11)  10.90  10.85  10.71   10.62
 Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(8)  8.82  9.00  8.76   8.91
 Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(9)  9.47  9.69  9.46   9.60
 Tangible common equity / risk-weighted assets ratio 
 10.46  10.38  10.13   10.32
     (1)Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to the Significant Items section for additional 
discussion regarding these items. 
 (2)For all quarterly periods presented above, the impact of the convertible preferred stock issued in April of 2008 was excluded f
rom the diluted share calculation because the result would have been higher than basic earnings per common share (anti-dilutive) fo
r the 
periods.  (3)Deferred tax liability related to other intangible assets is calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 (4)High and low stock prices are intra-day quotes obtained from NASDAQ. 
 (5)Net income excluding expense for amortization of intangibles for the period divided by average tangible shareholders' equity.  
Average tangible shareholders' equity equals average total stockholders' equity less average intangible assets and goodwill.  E
xpense for amortization of intangibles and average intangible assets ar
e net of deferred tax liability, and calculated assuming a 35% 
tax rate.
 (6)Noninterest expense less amortization of intangibles divided by the sum of FTE net interest income and noninterest income 
excluding securities (losses) gains.  (7)Presented on a FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 (8)Tangible common equity (total common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets
 less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax
 rate. 
 (9)Tangible equity (total equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets less goodwill
 and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 (10)In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filings f
or 
newly adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, regulatory capital data has not been updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01. 
   (11)In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filings f
or 
newly adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 common equity, and risk-weighted assets have not been 
updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01.   
  ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 
 Forward-Looking Statements 
  This report, including MD&A, contains certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, 
projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties.  Statements that do not descr
ibe 
historical or current facts, including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looki
ng 
statements may be identified by words such as expect, anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, plan, target, goal, or similar exp
ressions, or 
future or conditional verbs such as will, may, might, should, would, could, or similar variations. The forward-looking statemen
ts are intended to be subject to the safe harbor provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

    92 
While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors whi
ch 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained or implied in the forward-looking statements:  (1) worseni
ng of 
credit quality performance due to a number of factors such as the underlying value of collateral that could prove less valuable
 than 
otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than expected; (2) changes in general economic, political, or industry 
conditions; uncertainty in U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; 
volatility 
and disruptions in global capital and credit markets; (3) movements in interest rates; (4) competitive pressures on product pri
cing and 
services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or servic
es implementing our ﬁFair Playﬂ banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our 
assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption of vital infrastructure; (8) the fi
nal outcome of significant litigation; (9) the nature, extent, timing, and results of governmental actions, examinations, reviews, 
reforms, 
regulations, and interpretations, including those related to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and 
the 
Basel III regulatory capital reforms, as well as those involving the OCC, Federal Reserve, FDIC, and CFPB; and (10) the outcome
 of 
judicial and regulatory decisions regarding practices in the residential mortgage industry, including among other things the pr
ocesses 
followed for foreclosing residential mortgages.      
 All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and are based on information available at that time. We 
assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forw
ard-
looking statements were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events except as required by federal securities laws
.  As 
forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, caution should be exercised against placing undue relia
nce on such statements. 

 Non-Regulatory Capital Ratios  
 In addition to capital ratios defined by banking regulators, the Company considers various other measures when evaluating capit
al utilization and adequacy, including:  
  Tangible common equity to tangible assets,  
  Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets using Basel I and Basel III definitions, and 
  Tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets using Basel I definition.  
 These non-regulatory capital ratios are viewed by management as useful additional methods of reflecting the level of capital 
available to withstand unexpected market conditions. Additionally, presentation of these ratios allows readers to compare the 

Company™s capitalization to other financial services companies. These ratios differ from capital ratios defined by banking regu
lators principally in that the numerator excludes preferred securities, th
e nature and extent of which varies among different financia
l services companies. These ratios are not defined in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) or federal banking regulations. As
 a result, these non-regulatory capital ratios disclosed by the Company are considered non-GAAP financial measures. 
 Because there are no standardized definitions for these non-regulatory capital ratios, the Company™s calculation methods may 
differ from those used by other financial services companies. Also, there may be limits in the usefulness of these measures to 
investors. As a result, the Company encourages readers to consider the consolidated financial statements and other financial 
information contained in this Form 10-K in their entirety, and not to rely on any single financial measure.  
 Risk Factors 
 More information on risk is set forth under the heading Risk Factors included in Item 1A and incorporated by reference into thi
s MD&A.  Additional information regarding risk factors can also be found in the Risk Management and Capital discussion, as well a
s the Regulatory Matters section included in Item 1 and incorporated by reference into the MD&A. 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Significant Estimates 
 Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP requires us to establish accounting policies and make estimates that affect amounts reported in our 

Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference
 into 
this MD&A, describes the significant accounting policies we use in our Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 
   93 
An accounting estimate requires assumptions and judgments about uncertain matters that could have a material effect on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates are made under facts and circumstances at a point in time, and changes in those fa
cts and circumstances could produce results substantially different from those estimates.  The most significant accounting policies
 and 
estimates and their related application are discussed below.  
 Allowance for Credit Losses
   Our ACL of $0.7 billion at December 31, 2014, represents our estimate of probable credit losses inherent in our loan and lease 
portfolio and our unfunded loan commitments and letters of cred
it.  We regularly review our ACL for appropriateness by performi
ng on-going evaluations of the loan and lease portfolio.  In doing so, we consider factors such as the differing economic risk ass
ociated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific borrowers, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collate
ral and, 
where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or other documented support.  We also evaluate the impact of changes in inter
est rates and overall economic conditions on the ability of borrowers to meet their financial obligations when quantifying our expo
sure to 
credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL at each reporting date.  There is no certainty that our ACL will be 

appropriate over time to cover losses in the portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditio
ns, or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries, or markets.  If the credit quality of our customer base materially d
eteriorates, the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers ch
anges materially, or if the ACL is not appropriate, our net inc
ome and 
capital could be materially adversely affected which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition 
and 
results of operations. 
 In addition, bank regulators periodically review our ACL and may require us to increase our provision for loan and lease losses
 or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material
 adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
 Valuation of Financial Instruments 
 Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility.  Assets me
asured at 
fair value include mortgage loans held for sale, available-for-sale and trading securities, certain securitized automobile loan
s, 
derivatives,  and certain securitization trust notes payable.  At December 31, 2014, approximately $9.9 billion of our assets a
nd $0.3 
billion of our liabilities were recorded at fair value.  In addition to the above mentioned on-going fair value measurements, f
air value 
is also the unit of measure for recording business combinations and other non-recurring financial assets and liabilities.
    At the end of each quarter, we assess the valuation hierarchy for each asset or liability measured at fair value.  As necessary
, assets or liabilities may be transferred within fair value hierarchy levels due to changes in availability of observable market
 inputs to measure fair value at the measurement date.   
 Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is 
determined, using either internally developed or independent third party valuation models, based on inputs that are either dire
ctly observable or derived from market data. These inputs include, but are not limited to, interest rate yield curves, option volati
lities, or option adjusted spreads. Where neither quoted market prices nor observable market data are available, fair value is determined 
using valuation models that feature one or more significant unobservable inputs based on management™s expectation that market partici
pants 
would use in determining the fair value of the asset or liability. The determination of appropriate unobservable inputs require
s exercise 
of management judgment. A significant portion of our assets and liabilities that are reported at fair value are measured based 
on 
quoted market prices and observable market or independent inputs. 

 The following is a description of the significant estimates used in the valuation of financial assets and liabilities 
for which quoted market prices and observable market parameters are not available. 
 Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed securities  Our Alt-A, private label CMO and pooled-trust-preferred securities portfolios are classified as Level 3 and as such use signifi
cant 
estimates to determine the fair value of these securities which results in greater subjectivity. The Alt-A and private label CM
O securities portfolios are subjected to a monthly review of the projected cash flows, while the cash flows of our pooled-trust-p
referred 
securities portfolio are reviewed quarterly. These reviews are supported with analysis from independent third parties, and are 
used as a 
basis for impairment analysis.  
    94 
Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label CMO securities are collateralized by first-lien residential mortgage loans. The securit
ies valuation methodology incorporates values obtained from a third party pricing specialist using a discounted cash flow approach 
and a 
proprietary pricing model and includes assumptions management believes market participants would use to value the securities un
der current market conditions.  The model uses inputs such as estimated prepayment speeds, losses, recoveries, default rates that a
re 
implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the structure or similar structures, house price depreciation / apprecia
tion rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates that are implied by market prices for similar securities with si
milar collateral structures.  Pooled-trust-preferred securities are CDOs backed by a pool of debt securities issued by financial institutions. The collateral
 generally consists of trust-preferred securities and subordinated debt securities issued by banks, bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies. A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within t
his portfolio. We engage a third-party pricing specialist with direct industry experience in pooled-trust-preferred securities valu
ations to provide assistance in estimating the fair value and expected cash flows for each security in this portfolio.  The PD of each is
suer and 
the market discount rate are the most significant inputs in determining fair value.  Management evaluates the PD assumptions 

provided by the third-party pricing specialist 
by comparing the current PD to the assu
mptions used the previous quarter, actual
 defaults and deferrals in the current period, and trend data on certain financial ratios of the issuers. Huntington also evalua
tes the assumptions related to discount rates.   Relying on cash flows is necessary because there was a lack of observable transactions
 in the market and many of the original sponsors or dealers for these securities are no longer able to provide a fair value that is com
pliant with ASC 820. 
 Derivatives used for hedging purposes
   Derivatives designated as qualified hedges are tested for hedge effectiveness on a quarterly basis. Assessments are made at the
 inception of the hedge and on a recurring basis to determine whether the derivative used in the hedging transaction has been an
d is 
expected to continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. A statistica
l regression analysis is performed to measure the effectiveness. 
  If, based on the assessment, a derivative is not expected to be a highly effective hedge or it has ceased to be a highly effec
tive hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued as of the quarter the hedge is not highly effective. As the statistical regression anal
ysis requires the use of estimates regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows which are sensitive to significant changes i
n future 
periods based on changes in market rates, we consider this a critical accounting estimate.  
 Loans held for sale
   Huntington has elected to apply the fair value option to certain residential mortgage loans that are classified as held for sal
e at origination.  The fair value is estimated based on security prices for similar product types. 
 Certain consumer and commercial loans are classified as held for sale and are accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or f
air value. The determination of fair value for these consumer loans is based on security prices for similar product types or discou
nted expected cash flows, which takes into consideration factors such as future interest rates, prepayment speeds, default and loss 
curves, 
and market discount rates. The determination of fair value for commercial loans takes into account factors such as the location
 and appraised value of the related collateral, as well as the estimated cash flows from realization of the collateral. 
 Mortgage Servicing Rights 
 Retained rights to service mortgage loans are recognized as a separate and distinct asset at the time the loans are sold.   Mor
tgage 
servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) are initially recorded at fair value at the time the related loans are sold and subsequently re-measu
red at each reporting date under either the fair value or amortization method.  Any increase or decrease in fair value of MSRs account
ed for under the fair value method, as well as any amortization and/or impairment of MSRs recorded under the amortization method, is 

reflected in earnings in the period that the changes occur. MSRs are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value wil
l fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environment. Fair value is determined based upon the application of an income approach
 valuation model. The valuation model, maintained by an independent third party, incorporates assumptions in estimating future c
ash flows. These assumptions include time decay, payoffs, and changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. The reasonableness of th
ese 
pricing models is validated on a minimum of a quarterly basis by at least one independent external service broker valuation. Be
cause 
the fair values of MSRs are significantly impacted by the use of estimates, the use of different assumption estimates can resul
t in different estimated fair values of those MSRs. 
    95 
Contingent Liabilities 
 We are parties to various claims, litigation, and legal proceedings resulting from ordinary business activities relating to our
 current and/or former operations.  We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory
 proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in ma
king these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be more 
or less than the current estimate. Our total estimated liabili
ty in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses af
ter considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in simil
ar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of legal counsel.  Litigation exposure represents a key area of judgment and is subj
ect to uncertainty and certain factors outside of our control.  
 Income Taxes  
 The calculation of our provision for income taxes is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. We have two 
accruals for income taxes: (1) our income tax payable represents the estimated net amount currently due to the federal, state, 
and local 
taxing jurisdictions, net of any reserve for potential audit issues and any tax refunds, and the net receivable balance is repo
rted as a component of accrued income and other assets in our consolidated balance sheet; (2) our deferred federal and state income tax a
nd 
related valuation accounts, reported as a component of accrued income and other assets, represents the estimated impact of temp
orary differences between how we recognize our assets and liabilities under GAAP, and how such assets and liabilities are recognized 
under federal and state tax law.   
 In the ordinary course of business, we operate in various taxing jurisdictions and are subject to income and non-income taxes. 
The 
effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of the relevant current tax laws. We believe the aggregate liabilitie
s related to taxes are appropriately reflected in the consolidated financial statements. We review the appropriate tax treatment of all tran
sactions taking into consideration statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the context of our tax positions. In addition, we rel
y on various 
tax opinions, recent tax audits, and historical experience.  
 From time-to-time, we engage in business transactions that may affect our tax liabilities. Where appropriate, we have obtained 
opinions of outside experts and have assessed the relative merits
 and risks of the appropriate tax
 treatment of business transa
ctions taking into account statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. However, changes to our es
timates of 
accrued taxes can occur due to changes in tax rates, implementation of new business strategies, resolution of issues with taxin
g authorities regarding previously taken tax positions, and newly enacted statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance. Such chan
ges 
could affect the amount of our accrued taxes and could be material to our financial position and / or results of operations. 
(See Note 15 
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
  Deferred Tax Assets  
 At December 31, 2014, we had a net federal deferred tax asset of $72.1 million and a net state deferred tax asset of $45.3 mill
ion. 
A valuation allowance is provided when it is more-likely-than-not some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. 
All available evidence, both positive and negative, was cons
idered to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, 
impairment should be recognized. Our forecast process includes judgmental and quantitative elements that may be subject to 

significant change. If our forecast of taxable income within the carryforward periods available under applicable law is not suf
ficient to 
cover the amount of net deferred tax assets, such assets may be impaired. Based on our analysis of both positive and negative e
vidence 
and our ability to offset the net deferred tax assets against our forecasted future taxable income, there was no impairment of 
the net 
deferred tax assets at December 31, 2014, for regulatory capital purposes.
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Developments 
 Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2014 and the expected 
impact of accounting pronouncements recently issued but not yet required to be adopted.  To the extent the adoption of new 
accounting standards materially affect financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity, the impacts are discussed in t
he applicable section of this MD&A and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
     96 
Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the heading of ﬁMarket Riskﬂ in Item 7 (MD&A), which is incorporated 
by reference into this item. 
 Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
Information required by this item is set forth in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Notes, and Selected Quarterly Income Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 97 
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT  
 The Management of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington or the Company) is responsible for the financial information 
and representations contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements and other sections of this report. The Consolidated Fina
ncial Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In all material
 respects, they reflect the substance of transactions that should be included based on informed judgments, estimates, and curren
tly available information. Management maintains a system of internal accounting controls, which includes the careful selection and 
training of qualified personnel, appropriate segregation of responsibilities, communication of written policies and procedures,
 and a 
broad program of internal audits. The costs of the controls are b
alanced against the expected benefits. During 2014, the audit 
committee of the board of directors met regularly with Management, 
Huntington™s internal auditors, and the independent register
ed 
public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, to review the scope of the audits and to discuss the evaluation of internal acco
unting 
controls and financial reporting matters. The independent registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have free
 access 
to, and meet confidentially with, the audit committee to discuss appropriate matters. Also, Huntington maintains a disclosure r
eview 
committee. This committee™s purpose is to design and maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material inform
ation relating to the financial and operating condition of Huntington is properly reported to its chief executive officer, chief fina
ncial officer, internal auditors, and the audit committee of the board of directors in connection with the preparation and filing of periodic 
reports and 
the certification of those reports by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer. 

 REPORT OF MANAGEMENT™S ASSESSMENT OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company, 
including accounting and other internal control systems that, in the opinion of Management, provide reasonable assurance that (
1) 
transactions are properly authorized, (2) the assets are properly safeguarded, and (3) transactions are properly recorded and r
eported to 
permit the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in 
the 
United States. Huntington™s Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over financial reporting as
 of 
December 31, 2014. In making this assessment, Management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizatio
ns of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 
Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework
 (2013).
  Based on that assessment, Management 
believes that, as of December 31, 2014, the Company™s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those cri
teria. The Company™s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an 

independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on the next page. 
     Stephen D. Steinour Œ Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer  

   Howell D. McCullough III Œ Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

 February 13, 2015   98 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 

Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
Columbus, Ohio 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and subsidiaries (the 
ﬁCompanyﬂ) as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in 
Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  The Company™s management is 

responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of 

internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management™s Assessment of Internal 

Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company™s internal control over 

financial reporting based on our audit.   
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an 

understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and 

evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other 

procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our 
opinion. 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company™s 
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the 
company™s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 

of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 

accepted accounting principles. A company™s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and 

procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 

transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management 

and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 

unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 
statements. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected 
on a timely basis.  Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in 
Internal Control ŠIntegrated Framework (2013)
 issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014 of the Company and our 
report dated February 13, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
 Columbus, Ohio 
February 13, 2015 
 99 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 

Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
Columbus, Ohio 

 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and subsidiaries 
(the ﬁCompanyﬂ) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive 

income, changes in shareholders™ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 

2014.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company™s management. Our responsibility is to express an 

opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 

States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 

financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting 

the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used 

and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We 
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 

Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their 

operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 

States), the Company™s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the criteria established 

in Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 13, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company™s 
internal control over financial reporting. 
   Columbus, Ohio 

February 13, 2015 
   100 
Huntington Bancshares Incor
porate
d   
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands, exce
pt number of shares) 20142013
Assets Cash and due from banks $1,220,565 $1,001,132
Interest-bearin
g deposits in banks 64,559 57,043
Trading account securities 42,191 35,573
Loans held for sale 416,327 326,212
 (includes $354,888
 and $278,928 res
pectivel
y, measured at fair value
)(1)Available-fo
r-sale and other securities 9,384,670 7,308,753
Held-to-maturity securities 3,379,905 3,836,667
Loans and leases 
(includes $50,617 and $52,286 res
pectivel
y, measured at fair value
)(1)  Commercial and industrial loans and leases 19,033,146 17,594,276

  Commercial real estate loans 5,197,403 4,850,094
  Automobile loans 8,689,902 6,638,713
  Home e
quity loans 8,490,915 8,336,318
  Residential mort
gage loans 5,830,609 5,321,088
  Other consumer loans 413,751 380,011
 Loans and leases 
47,655,726 43
,120,500 Allowance for loan and lease losses 
(605,196)(647,870)Net loans and leases 47
,050,530 42
,472,630Bank owned life insurance 1
,718,436 1
,647,170Premises and e
quipment 616,407 634,657
Goodwill 522,541 444,268
Other intan
gible assets 
74,671 93,193
Accrued income and other assets 1,807,208  1,609,876
Total assets 
$66
,298,010 $59
,467,174Liabilities and shareholders' equity 
Liabilities 
 De
posits in domestic offices 
  Demand de
posits - noninterest-bearing $15,393,226 $13,650,468
  Interest-
bearin
g 35,937,873 33,540,545
 De
posits in forei
gn offices 401,052 315,705
Deposits 51,732,151 47
,506,718Short-term borrowin
gs 2,397,101 2,352,143
Long-term debt 4,335,962 2,458,272
Accrued ex
penses and other liabilities 1,504,626  1,059,888
Total liabilities 
59,969,840 53
,377,021Shareholders' e
quity Preferred stock - authorized 6,617,808 shares;  
 Series A, 8.50% fixed rate, non-cumulative 
perpetual convertible preferred   stock, 
par value of $0.01, and li
quidation value 
per share of $1,000 362,507  362,507
 Series B, floatin
g rate, non-voting, non-cumulative perpetual 
preferred stock, 
par  
  of $0.01, and li
quidation value 
per share of $1,000  23,785  23,785
Common stock 8,131  8,322
Capital surplus 
7,221,745  7,398,515
Less treasury shares, at cost 
(13,382) (9,643)Accumulated other com
prehensive loss 
(222,292) (214,009)Retained 
(deficit
) earnin
gs (1,052,324) (1,479,324)Total shareholders' e
quity 6,328,170 6
,090,153Total liabilities and shareholders' e
quity $66
,298,010 $59
,467,174Common shares authorized (par value of 
$0.01
) 1,500,000,000 1
,500,000,000Common shares issued 813,136,321 832,217,098
Common shares outstanding 811,454,676 830,963,427
Treasury shares outstandin
g 1,681,645 1,253,671
Preferred shares issue
d 1,967,071 1,967,071
Preferred shares outstandin
g 398,007 398,007
(1)
Amounts represent loans for which Huntington has elected the fair value option. See Note 17.   
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
 101 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
  Consolidated Statements of Income 
     
Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands, exce
pt per share amounts
) 20142013 2012
Interest and fee income: 
  Loans and leases $1,674,563$1,629,939 $ 1,675,295
Available-for-sale and other securities    
 Taxable 171,080148,557  184,340
 Tax-exem
pt  28,96512,678  8,999
Held-to-maturity securities 88,72450,214  24,088
Other 13,13019,249  37,541
Total interest income  1,976,462 1,860,637  1,930,263
Interest expense    De
posits 86,453116,241  162,167
 Short-term borrowin
gs 2,940700  2,048
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 1,0111,077  819
 Subordinated notes and other lon
g-term debt 48,91738,011  54,705
Total interest expense  139,321 156,029  219,739
Net interest income  1,837,141 1,704,608  1,710,524
Provision for credit losses  80,989 90,045  147,388
Net interest income after provision for credit losses  1,756,152 1,614,563  1,563,136
Service char
ges on de
posit accounts  273
,741271
,802  262
,179Trust services 115,972123,007  121,897
Electronic bankin
g 105,40192,591  82,290
Mortgage bankin
g income 84,887126,855  191,092
Brokerage income 68,27769,624  72,684
Insurance income 65,47369,264  71,319
Bank owned life insurance income 57,04856,419  56,042
Capital markets fees 43,73145,220  48,160
Gain on sale of loans 21,09118,171  58,182
Net gains on sales of securities 17,5542,220  6,388
Impairment losses reco
gnized in earnin
gs on available-fo
r-sale securities 
(a)---(1,802) (1,619)Other income  126,004 138,825  137,707
Total noninterest income   979,179 1,012,196  1,106,321
Personnel costs 1
,048,7751
,001,637  988
,193Outside data processing and other services 212,586199,547  190,255
Net occu
panc
y 128,076125,344  111,160
Equipment 119,663106,793  102,947
Professional services 59,55540,587  65,758
Marketing 50,56051,185  64,263
Deposit and other insurance ex
pense 49,04450,161  68,330
Amortization of intan
gibles 39,27741,364  46,549
Gain on earl
y extin
guishment of debt ------  
(798)Other expense 174,810141,385  199,219
Total noninterest expense  1,882,346 1,758,003  1,835,876
Income before income taxes  852,985 868,756  833,581
Provision for income taxes  220,593 227,474  202,291
Net income  632,392 641,282  631,290
Dividends on preferred shares  31,854 31,869  31,989
Net income applicable to common shares $ 600,538$ 609,413 $ 599,301
Average common shares - 
basic 819,917834
,205  857
,962Average common shares - dilute
d 833,081843,974  863,402
Per common share:   Net income - 
basic $0.73$0.73 $ 0.70
Net income - dilute
d 0.720.72  0.69
Cash dividends declare
d 0.210.19  0.16
(a) The followin
g OTTI losses are included in securities losses for the 
periods presented: 
    Total OTTI losses  $
---$(1,870)$ (1,886)Noncredit-related 
portion of loss reco
gnized in OCI 
---68  267
Net impairment credit losses reco
gnized in earnin
gs $---$(1,802)$ (1,619)See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 102 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated          
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    
          
    
Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
20142013  2012
    
  Net income 
$632,392 $641,282  $631,290 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax: 
      
 Unrealized gains on available-for-sale and other securities: 
      
  Non-credit-related impairment recoveries (losses) 
      
   on debt securities not expected to be sold 
8,780 153  12,490 
  Unrealized net gains (losses) on available-for-sale and other 
      
   securities arising during the period, net of reclassification 
      
   for net realized gains and losses 
45,783 (77,593) 55,305 
 Total unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale and other securities 
54,563 (77,440) 67,795 
 Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedging derivatives, net of 
reclassifications to income 
6,611 (65,928) 6,186
  Change in accumulated unrealized losses for pension and 
      
  other post-retirement obligations 
(69,457) 80,176  (51,035) 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 
(8,283) (63,192) 22,946 
Comprehensive income 
$624,109 $578,090  $654,236 
    
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      
 103 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated                   
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity              
                        
    Preferred Stock          Accumulated    
    Series A  Series B           Other Retained   
(all amounts in thousands, 
   Floating Rate Common Stock Capital  Treasury Stock Comprehensive Earnings   
except for per share amounts) 
 Shares  Amount  Shares Amount Shares  AmountSurplus  Shares  Amount  Loss  (Deficit)  Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2014 
                       
 Balance, beginning of year  363 $362,507  35 $23,785832,217$8,322$7,398,515 (1,331)$(9,643)$ (214,009)$(1,479,324)$6,090,153
                          
Net income                     632,392 632,392
Other comprehensive income (loss)                   (8,283)   (8,283)

Repurchases of common stock         (35,709) (357) (334,072)         (334,429)
Cash dividends declared:                        
 Common ($0.21 per share)                     (171,692) (171,692)
 Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share)                    (30,813) (30,813)
 Preferred Series B ($29.33 per share)                     (1,041) (1,041)

Shares issued pursuant to acquisition         8,694 87 91,577         91,664

Shares sold to HIP         276 3 2,594         2,597
Recognition of the fair value of                        
 share-based compensation             43,666         43,666
Other share-based compensation activity         6,752 68 17,219       (1,774) 15,513
Other         906 8 2,246 (351) (3,739)   (72) (1,557)

Balance, end of year   363 $362,507  35 $23,785813,136$8,131$7,221,745 (1,682)$(13,382)$(222,292)$(1,052,324)$6,328,170
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
   
                  
 104 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated                   
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity              
                        
    Preferred Stock          Accumulated    
    Series A  Series B           Other Retained   
(all amounts in thousands, 
   Floating Rate Common Stock Capital  Treasury Stock Comprehensive Earnings   
except for per share amounts) 
 Shares  Amount  Shares Amount Shares  AmountSurplus  Shares  Amount  Loss  (Deficit)  Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2013 
                       
 Balance, beginning of year  363 $362,507  35 $23,785844,105$8,441$7,475,149 (1,292)$(10,921)$ (150,817)$(1,929,644)$5,778,500
Net income                     641,282 641,282
Other comprehensive income (loss)                   (63,192)   (63,192)

Repurchase of common stock         (16,708) (167) (124,828)         (124,995)
Cash dividends declared:                        
 Common ($0.19 per share)                     (158,194) (158,194)
 Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share)                     (30,813) (30,813)
 Preferred Series B ($33.14 per share)                     (1,055) (1,055)

Recognition of the fair value of                        
 share-based compensation             37,007         37,007
Other share-based compensation activity         4,820 48 12,812       (873) 11,987

Other             (1,625) (39) 1,278    (27) (374)

Balance, end of year   363 $362,507  35$23,785832,217$8,322$7,398,515 (1,331)$(9,643)$(214,009)$(1,479,324)$6,090,153
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
   
                  
 105 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated                   
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity              
                         
    Preferred Stock           Accumulated    
    Series A  Series B           Other Retained   
(all amounts in thousands,  
   Floating Rate  Common Stock Capital  Treasury Stock Comprehensive Earnings   
except for per share amounts) 
 Shares  Amount  Shares  Amount Shares  Amount Surplus  Shares Amount  Loss  (Deficit)  Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2012 
                        
 Balance, beginning of year  363 $362,507  35 $23,785 865,585$8,656$7,596,809 (1,178)$(10,255)$ (173,763)$(2,391,618)$5,416,121
Net income                      631,290 631,290
Other comprehensive income (loss)                    22,946    22,946

Repurchase of common stock          (23,328) (233) (148,648)         (148,881)
Cash dividends declared:                         
 Common ($0.16 per share)                      (136,887) (136,887)
 Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share)                      (30,813) (30,813)
 Preferred Series B ($33.14 per share)                      (1,176) (1,176)

Recognition of the fair value of                         

 share-based compensation              27,873         27,873
Other share-based compensation activity         1,848 18 (795)       (348) (1,125)
Other              (90) (114) (666)   (92) (848)
Balance, end of year   363 $362,507  35 $23,785 844,105$8,441$7,475,149 (1,292)$(10,921)$(150,817)$(1,929,644)$5,778,500
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
                     
 106 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated       
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
      
    
Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014   2013 2012 
Operating activities    
 Net income 
$632,392 
 $ 
641,282 $631,290
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used for) operating 
        
  Impairment of goodwill 3,000   --- ---
  Provision for credit losses 80
,989   90,045147
,388
  De
preciation and amortization 332
,832 
  281
,545274
,572
  Share-
based com
pensation ex
pense 43
,666   37,00727
,873  Chan
ge in deferred income taxes 35
,174   106
,022159
,938
  Ori
ginations of loans held for sale 
(2,419,007
)   (2,845,275
)(3,814,572
)  Princi
pal payments on and 
proceeds from loans held for sale2
,385
,596 
  3,017
,4303
,731
,465
  Gain on sale of loans held for sale 
(25,392
)   (44,787
)(60,251
)  Gain on earl
y extinguishment of deb
t --- 
  ---
(798)  Bar
gain purchase 
gain --- 
  ---
(11,217
)  Net gains on sales of securities 
(17,554
)   (2,220)(6,388)  Im
pairment losses reco
gnized in earnin
gs on available-for-sale securities--- 
  1,8021
,619
  Net Chan
ge in: 
          Tradin
g account securities 
(6,618)   55,632(45,306
)       Accrued income and other assets 
(438,366
)   10,500458
,328
       Accrued ex
pense and other liabilities 282
,074 
  (335,738
)(491,811
)Net cash provided by (used for) operating act
ivities 888,786
   1
,013,2451,00
2,130Investing activities    
 Decrease 
(increase
) in interest-bearin
g deposits in banks
(7,516)   146
,58470
,980 Net cash received in ac
quisitions 691
,637 
  ---40
,258 Proceeds from: 
     Maturities and calls of available-fo
r-sale and other securities1
,480
,505 
  1,414
,1141
,776
,594
  Maturities of held-to-maturit
y securities 452
,785 
  278
,136113
,576
  Sales of available-fo
r-sale and other securities 1
,152
,907 
  410
,106957
,930
 Purchases of available-fo
r-sale and other securities
(4,553,857
)   (1,416,795
)(2,384,824
) Purchases of held-to-maturit
y securities --- 
  (2,081,373
)(941,119
) Net proceeds from sales of loans 353
,811 
  459
,0063
,092
,643
 Net loan and lease activity, excluding sales (4,232,350
)   (3,386,753
)(3,287,000
) Proceeds from sale of o
perating lease assets 17
,591   10,22730
,322 Purchases of 
premises and e
quipmen
t (58,862
)   (102,208
)(129,641
) Proceeds from sales of other real estate 38
,479   40,44856
,762 Purchases of loans and leases 
(345,039
)   (16,170
)(484,157
) Purchases of customer lists 
(946)   ------
 Other
, ne
t 6,074 
  4,3454
,698
Net cash provided by (used for) investing act
ivities (5,004,78
1)   
(4,240,333)
(1,082,978)
Financing activities    
 Increase 
(decrease
) in deposits 2
,923
,928 
  1,258
,0382
,262
,213
 Increase 
(decrease
) in short-term borrowin
gs 118
,698 
  854
,558
(939,979
) Proceeds from issuance of lon
g-term deb
t 2,000
,000 
  1,250
,0002
,515
,000
 Maturit
y/redem
ption of lon
g-term deb
t (198,922
)   (102,086
)(3,290,095
) Dividends 
paid on preferred stoc
k (31,854
)   (31,869
)(31,719
) Dividends 
paid on common stoc
k (166,935
)   (150,608
)(137,616
) Re
purchase of common stoc
k (334,429
)   (124,995
)(148,881
) Proceeds from stock o
ptions exercise
d 17
,710   12,6012
,000
 Net proceeds from issuance of common stoc
k 2,597 
  ------
 Other
, ne
t 4,635 
  (225)(3,237)Net cash provided by (used for) financing act
ivities 4,335,
428   2,965,
41422
7,686
Increase (decrease) in cash an
d cash equivalents 21
9,433   
(261,674)146
,838
Cash and cash e
quivalents at be
ginnin
g of period 1,001
,132   1
,262
,8061
,115
,968
Cash and cash equivalents at end of pe
riod $1,220,565  $ 1,001,132 $1,262,806
Supplemental disclosures:    
 Interest 
paid $131
,488  
$ 155
,832
$231
,897
 Income taxes 
paid (refunded
) 139
,918 
  109
,4326
,389
 Non-cash activities: 
     Loans transferred to available-fo
r-sale securities ---   600
,435---
  Loans transferred to 
portfolio from held-fo
r-sale 45
,240   307
,303---
  Transfer of loans to OREO 39
,066   34
,37256
,762  Transfer of securities to held-to-maturit
y from available-fo
r-sale---   292
,164278
,748
  Loans transfe
rred to held-fo
r-sale from 
portfolio 96
,643   53
,360306
,261
  Dividends accrued
, paid in subse
quent 
quarte
r 54
,143   47
,89847
,312 107 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 Nature of Operations Š 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington or the Company) is a multi-state diversified regional bank 
holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its subsidiaries, including i
ts bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank (the Bank), Huntington is engaged in providing full-service commercial, small 
business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment management,
 trust services, brokerage services, customized insurance programs
, and other financial products and services. Huntington™s bank
ing 
offices are located in Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky.  Select financial services and other
 activities are also conducted in various other states.  International banking services are available through the headquarters o
ffice in Columbus, Ohio and a limited purpose office located in the Cayman Islands and another in Hong Kong. 
 Basis of Presentation Š 
The Consolidated Financial 
Statements include the accounts of Hu
ntington and its majority-owned 
subsidiaries and are presented in accordance with GAAP. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in 
consolidation. Companies in which Huntington holds more than a 50% voting equity interest, or a controlling financial interest,
 or are 
a VIE in which Huntington has the power to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity™s econo
mic 
performance and  has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE which could potentially be si
gnificant 
to the VIE are consolidated. VIEs are legal entities with insubstantial equity, whose equity investors lack the ability to make
 decisions 
about the entity™s activities, or whose equity investors do not have the right to receive the residual returns of the entity if
 they occur. 
VIEs in which Huntington does not hold the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the enti
ty™s economic performance or  does not have an obligation  to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE  which cou
ld potentially be significant to the VIE are not consolidated. For consolidated entities where Huntington holds less than a 100% i
nterest, 
Huntington recognizes non-controlling interest (included in shareholders™ equity) for the equity held by others and non-control
ling 
profit or loss (included in noninterest expense) for the portion of the entity™s earnings attributable to other™s interests. In
vestments in 
companies that are not consolidated are accounted for using the equity method when Huntington has the ability to exert signific
ant 
influence. Those investments in nonmarketable securities for which Huntington does not have the ability to exert significant in
fluence 
are generally accounted for using the cost method.  Investments in private investment partnerships that are accounted for under
 the equity method or the cost method are included in accrued income and other assets and Huntington™s proportional interest in the 
equity investments™ earnings are include
d in other noninterest income. Investment inter
ests accounted for under the cost and equity me
thods 
are periodically evaluated for impairment.  
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that 
significantly affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Huntington utilizes processes that involve the 
use of significant estimates and the judgments of Management in determining the amount of its allowance for credit losses, income taxe
s deferred tax assets, and contingent liabilities, as well as fair value measurements of investment securities, derivatives, good
will, pension assets and liabilities, mortgage servicing rights, and loans held for sale. As with any estimate, actual results could 
differ from 
those estimates.  
 Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year™s presentation. 
 Resale and Repurchase Agreements Š 
Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to 
repurchase are treated as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were ac
quired or 
sold plus accrued interest. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third party is continually monit
ored and 
additional collateral is obtained or requested to be returned to Huntington in accordance with the agreement. 
 Securities Š 
Securities purchased with the intention of recognizing short-term profits or which are actively bought and sold are 
classified as trading account securities and reported at fair value. The unrealized gains or losses on trading account securiti
es are 
recorded in other noninterest income, except for gains and losses on trading account securities used to hedge the fair value of
 MSRs, 
which are included in mortgage banking income.  Debt securities purchased in which Huntington has the positive intent and abili
ty to hold to its maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securities. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost.
  All other 
debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale and other securities.
 Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale and 
other securities are reported as a separate component of accumulated OCI in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Sharehold
ers™ 
Equity. Credit-related declines in the value of debt and marketable equity securities that are considered other-than-temporary 
are 
recorded in noninterest income. 
    108 
Huntington evaluates its investment securities portfolio on a quarterly basis for indicators of OTTI.  Huntington assesses whet
her 
OTTI has occurred when the fair value of a debt security is less than the amortized cost basis at the balance sheet date.  Mana
gement 
reviews the amount of unrealized loss, the length of time the security has been in an unrealized loss position, the credit rati
ng history, market trends of similar security classes, time remaining to maturity, and the source of both interest and principal payments t
o identify 
securities which could potentially be impaired.  OTTI is considered to have occurred (1) if Huntington intends to sell the secu
rity; (2) if it is more likely than not Huntington will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis;
 or (3) the present value of expected cash flows are not sufficient to recover all contractually required principal and interest payments. 
 For 
securities that Huntington does not expect to sell, or it is not more likely than not to be required to sell, the OTTI is separ
ated into 
credit and noncredit components.  A discou
nted cash flow analysis, which includes 
evaluating the timing of the expected cash fl
ows, 
is completed for all debt securities subject to credit impairment.  The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to th
e difference between the debt security™s cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the sec
urity™s effective yield.  The credit-related OTTI, represented by the expected loss in principal, is recognized in noninterest income. 
 The 
remaining difference between the security™s 
fair value and the present value of future expected cash flows is due to factors th
at are not 
credit-related and, therefore, are recognized in OCI.  Huntington believes that it will fully collect the carrying value of sec
urities on which noncredit-related OTTI has been recognized in OCI.  Noncredit-related OTTI results from other factors, including increase
d liquidity spreads and extension of the security. For securities which Huntington does expect to sell, or if it is more likely t
han not Huntington will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, all OTTI is recognized in earning
s. Presentation of OTTI is made in the Consolidated Statements of Income on a gross basis with a reduction for the amount of OTTI 
recognized in OCI. Once an OTTI is recorded, when future cash flows can be reasonably estimated, future cash flows are re-alloc
ated 
between interest and principal cash flows to provide for a level-yield on the security.  
 Securities transactions are recognized on the trade date (the date the order to buy or sell is executed). The carrying value pl
us any 
related OCI balance of sold securities is used to compute realized gains and losses. Interest and dividends on securities, incl
uding 
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the effective interest method over the period to maturity, are includ
ed in 
interest income. 
 Nonmarketable equity securities include stock acquired for regulatory purposes, such as Federal Home Loan Bank stock and 
Federal Reserve Bank stock. These securities are accounted for at cost, evaluated for impairment, and included in available-for
-sale and other securities. 

 Loans and Leases Š 
Loans and direct financing leases for which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable 
future, or until maturity or payoff, are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as loans and leases. Except for loans wh
ich are subject to fair value requirements, loans and leases are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of unamortized deferr
ed loan 
origination fees and costs and net of unearned income. Direct financing leases are reported at the aggregate of lease payments 

receivable and estimated residual values, net of unearned and deferred income. Interest income is accrued as earned using the i
nterest method based on unpaid principal balances. Huntington defers the fees it receives from the origination of loans and leases, as 
well as the direct costs of those activities.  Huntington also acquires loans at a premium and at a discount to their contractual value
s.  Huntington amortizes loan discounts, premiums, and net loan origination fees and costs on a level-yield basis over the estimate
d lives of the related loans.   
 Troubled debt restructurings are loans for which the original contractual terms have been modified to provide a concession to a
 borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loan modifications are considered TDRs when the concessions provided are not avai
lable 
to the borrower through either no
rmal channels or other sources. However, not all loan modifications are TDRs. Modifications 
resulting in troubled debt restructurings may include changes to one or more terms of the loan, including but not limited to, a
 change 
in interest rate, an extension of the amortization period, a reduction in payment amount, and partial forgiveness or deferment 
of principal or accrued interest.   

 Residual values on leased equipment are evaluated quarterly for impairment. Impairment of the residual values of direct financi
ng 
leases determined to be other than temporary is recognized by writing the leases down to fair value with a charge to other noni
nterest 
expense. Residual value losses arise if the expected fair value at the end of the lease term is less than the residual value re
corded at the 
lease origination, net of estimated amounts reimbursable by the lessee.  Future declines in the expected residual value of the 
leased equipment would result in expected losses of the leased equipment. 
 For leased equipment, the residual component of a direct financing lease represents the estimated fair value of the leased 
equipment at the end of the lease term.  Huntington uses industry data, historical experience, and independent appraisals to es
tablish 
these residual value estimates.  Additional information regarding product life cycle, product upgrades, as well as insight into
 competing products are obtained through relationships with industry contacts and are factored into residual value estimates whe
re applicable.   
    109 
Loans Held for Sale Š 
Loans and loan commitments in wh
ich Huntington does not have the 
intent and ability to hold for the 
foreseeable future are classified as loans held for sale. Loans held for sale (excluding loans originated or acquired with the 
intent to 
sell, which are carried at fair value) are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less cost to sell.  The fair value option
 is generally 
elected for mortgage loans held for sale to facilitate hedging of the loans. Fair value is determined based on collateral value
 and prevailing market prices for loans with similar characteristics.   Nonmortgage loans held for sale are measured on an aggregate
 asset basis.  
 Allowance for Credit Losses Š 
Huntington maintains two reserves, both of which reflect Management™s judgment regarding the 
appropriate level necessary to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio: the ALLL and the AULC.  Combined,
 these 
reserves comprise the total ACL.  The determination of the ACL requires significant estimates, including the timing and amounts
 of expected future cash flows on impaired loans and leases, consideration of current economic conditions, and historical loss expe
rience 
pertaining to pools of homogeneous loans and leases, all of which may be susceptible to change. 
 The appropriateness of the ACL is based on Management™s current judgments about the credit quality of the loan portfolio.  Thes
e judgments consider on-going evalu
ations of the loan and lease port
folio, including such factors as the differing economic risks
 associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific borrowers, the level of delinquent loans, the value of 
any 
collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or other documented support. Further, Management evaluates th
e impact of changes in interest rates and overall economic conditions on the ability of borrowers to meet their financial obligat
ions when quantifying our exposure to credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL at each reporting date. In addition to g
eneral 
economic conditions and the other factors described above, additional factors also considered include: the impact of increasing
 or decreasing residential real estate values; the diversification of CRE loans; the development of new or expanded Commercial busi
ness 
segments such as healthcare, ABL, and energy, and the overall condition of the manufacturing industry.  Also, the ACL assessmen
t includes the on-going assessment of credit quality metrics, and a comparison of certain ACL benchmarks to current performance. 
 Management™s determinations regarding the appropriateness of the ACL are reviewed and approved by the Company™s Audit and Risk 
Oversight Committees. 
 The ALLL consists of two components: (1) the transaction reserve, which includes a loan level allocation, specific reserves 
related to loans considered to be impaired, and loans involved in troubled debt restructurings, and (2) the general reserve.   
The 
transaction reserve component includes both (1) an estimate of loss based on pools of commercial and consumer loans and leases 
with 
similar characteristics and (2) an estimate of loss based on an impairment review of each impaired C&I and CRE loan greater tha
n $1.0 million. For the C&I and CRE portfolios, the estimate of loss based on pools of loans and leases with similar characterist
ics is made by applying a PD factor and a LGD factor to each individual loan based on a regularly updated loan grade, using a standard
ized loan grading system.  The PD factor and an LGD factor are determined for each loan grade using statistical models based on hist
orical 
performance data. The PD factor considers on-going reviews of the financial performance of the specific borrower, including cas
h flow, debt-service coverage ratio, earnings power, debt level, and equity position, in conjunction with an assessment of the bo
rrower™s industry and future prospects.  The LGD factor considers analysis of the type of collateral and the relative LTV ratio.  These 
reserve factors are developed based on credit migration models that track historical movements of loans between loan ratings over time 
and a combination of long-term average loss experience of our own portfolio and external industry data using a 24-month emergence per
iod.   
 In the case of more homogeneous portfolios, such as automobile loans, home equity loans, and residential mortgage loans, the 
determination of the transaction reserve also incorporates PD and LGD factors.  The estimate of loss is based on pools of loans
 and 
leases with similar characteristics.  The PD factor considers current credit scores unless the account is delinquent, in which 
case a 
higher PD factor is used.  The credit score provides a basis for understanding the borrower™s past and current payment performa
nce, and this information is used to estimate expected losses over the 12-month emergence period.  The performance of first-lien loa
ns ahead of our junior-lien loans is available to use as part of our updated score process.  The LGD factor considers analysis of 
the type of collateral and the relative LTV ratio.  Credit scores, models, analyses, and other factors used to determine both the PD and
 LGD 
factors are updated frequently to capture the recent behavioral characteristics of the subject portfolios, as well as any chang
es in loss 
mitigation or credit origination strategies, and adjustments to the reserve factors are made as required.  Models utilized in t
he ALLL 
estimation process are subject to the Company™s model validation policies.   

  The general reserve consists of the economic reserve and risk-profile reserve components.  The economic reserve component 
considers the impact of changing market and economic conditions on portfolio performance.  The risk-profile component considers
 items unique to our structure, policies, processes, and portfolio composition, as well as qualitative measurements and assessme
nts of the loan portfolios including, but not limited to, management quality, concentrations, portfolio composition, industry comparis
ons, and internal review functions.  
 The estimate for the AULC is determined using the same procedures and methodologies as used for the ALLL.  The loss factors 
used in the AULC are the same as the loss factors used in the ALLL while also considering a historical utilization of unused 
commitments.  The AULC is recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
  110 
Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans Š 
Loans are considered past due when the contractual amounts due with respect to principal and 
interest are not received within 30 days of the contractual due date.  
 Any loan in any portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies described below when collection of principal
 or 
interest is in doubt. When a borrower with debt is discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower, the
 loan is determined to be collateral dependent and placed on nonaccrual status, unless there is a co-borrower.   
 All classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios (except for purchased credit-impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status at 9
0-days past due.  First-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loa
ns are 
placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due or when the related first-lien loan has been identified as nona
ccrual.  
Automobile and other consumer loans are generally charged-off when the loan is 120-days past due.  Residential mortgage loans a
re placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of residential mortgages guaranteed by government agencies
 which continue to accrue interest at the rate guaranteed by the government agency.  We are reimbursed from the government agenc
y for reasonable expenses incurred in servicing loans.  The FHA reimburses us for 66% of expenses, and the VA reimburses us at a 

maximum percentage of guarantee which is established for each individual loan.  We have not experienced either material losses 
in excess of guarantee caps or significant delays or rejected claims from the related government entity. 
 For all classes within all loan portfolios, when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, any accrued interest income is reversed
 with current year accruals charged to interest income, and prior year amounts charged-off as a credit loss.
  For all classes within all loan portfolios, cash receipts received on NALs are applied against principal until the loan or leas
e has been collected in full, after which time any additional cash receipts are recognized as interest income. However, for secured n
on-
reaffirmed debt in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, payments are applied to principal and interest when the borrower has demonstrated a 
capacity to continue payment of the debt and collection of the debt is reasonably assured.  For unsecured non-reaffirmed debt i
n a Chapter 7 bankruptcy where the carrying value has been fully charged-off, payments are recorded as loan recoveries. 
  Regarding all classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios, the determination of a borrower's ability to make the required princip
al 
and interest payments is based on an examination of the borrower's current financial statements, industry, management capabilit
ies, and other qualitative measures. For all classes within the consumer loan portfolio, the determination of a borrower's ability t
o make the 
required principal and interest payments is based on multiple factors, including number of days past due and, in some instances
, an evaluation of the borrower's financial condition. When, in Management's judgment, the borrower's ability to make required princ
ipal 
and interest payments resumes and collectability is no longer in doubt, the loan is returned to accrual status. For these loans
 that have 
been returned to accrual status, cash receipts are applied according to the contractual terms of the loan.
  
Charge-off of Uncollectible Loans Š 
Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-off prior to the policies described below if a loss 
confirming event has occurred.  Loss confirming events include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy (unsecured), continued 
delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an asset valuation indicating a collateral deficiency and that asset is the sole source
 of 
repayment. Additionally, discharged, collateral dependent non-reaffirmed debt in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings will result in a 
charge-
off to estimated collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.   
  
C&I and CRE loans are either charged-off or written down to net realizable value at 90-days past due.  Automobile loans and 
other consumer loans are charged-off at 120-days past due.
   First-lien and junior-lien home equity loans are charged-off to the 
estimated fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, at 150-days past due and 120-days past due, respectivel
y.  Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estimated fair value of the collateral at 150-days past due. 
 Impaired Loans Š 
For all classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios, all loans with an outstanding balance of $1.0 million or greater 
are evaluated on a quarterly basis for impairment.  Generally, consumer loans within any class are not individually evaluated o
n a regular basis for impairment.  All TDRs, regardless of the outstanding balance amount, are also considered to be impaired.  Loa
ns acquired with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable at acquisition that all co
ntractually 
required payments will not be collected are also considered to be impaired. 
 Once a loan has been identified for an assessment of impairment, the loan is considered impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not b
e collected.  This determination requires significant judgment and use of estimates, and the eventual outcome may differ signific
antly 
from those estimates.  
    111 
When a loan in any class has been determined to be impaired, the amount of the impairment is measured using the present value 
of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, the observable mar
ket price of 
the loan, or the fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, if the loan is collateral dependent.  When the p
resent value of 
expected future cash flows is used, the effective interest rate is the original contractual interest rate of the loan adjusted 
for any 
premium or discount.  When the contractual interest rate is variable, the effective interest rate of the loan changes over time
.  A specific reserve is established as a component of the ALLL when a loan has been determined to be impaired.  Subsequent to the i
nitial measurement of impairment, if there is a significant change to the impaired loan's expected future cash flows, or if actual cas
h flows are significantly different from the cash flows previously estimated, Huntington recalculates the impairment and appropriately 
adjusts 
the specific reserve. Similarly, if Huntington measures impairment based on the observable market price of an impaired loan or 
the 
fair value of the collateral of an impaired collateral dependent loan, Huntington will adjust the specific reserve. 
 When a loan within any class is impaired, the accrual of interest income is discontinued unless the receipt of principal and in
terest is no longer in doubt.  Interest income on TDRs is accrued when all principal and interest is expected to be collected under th
e post-modification terms.  Cash receipts received on nonaccruing impaired loans within any class are generally applied entirely again
st principal until the loan has been collected in full, after which time any additional cash receipts are recognized as interest i
ncome.  
Cash receipts received on accruing impaired loans within any class are applied in the same manner as accruing loans that are no
t considered impaired.
  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans
 Š Purchased loans with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it 
is probable at acquisition that we will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are considered to be credit im
paired. Purchased credit-impaired loans are initially recorded at fair value, which is estimated by discounting the cash flows expected
 to be 
collected at the acquisition date. Because the estimate of expected cash flows reflects an estimate of future credit losses exp
ected to be 
incurred over the life of the loans, an allowance for credit losses is not recorded at the acquisition date. The excess of cash
 flows expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value, referred to as the accretable yield, is recognized in interest income ov
er the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, on a level-yield basis. The difference between the contractually required payment
s at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. A subseq
uent 
decrease in the estimate of cash flows expected to be received on purchased credit-impaired loans generally results in the reco
gnition 
of an allowance for credit losses. Subsequent increases in cash flows result in reversal of any nonaccretable difference (or al
lowance 
for loan and lease losses to the extent any has been recorded) with a positive impact on interest income subsequently recognize
d.  The 
measurement of cash flows involves assumptions and judgments for interest rates, prepayments, default rates, loss severity, and
 collateral values.  All of these factors are inherently subjective and significant changes in the cash flow estimates over the 
life of the 
loan can result. 
 Transfers of Financial Assets and Securitizations
 Š Transfers of financial assets in which we have surrendered control over the 
transferred assets are accounted for as sales. In assessing whether control has been surrendered, we consider whether the trans
feree would be a consolidated affiliate, the existence and extent of any continuing involvement in the transferred financial assets, 
and the 
impact of all arrangements or agreements made contemporaneously with, or in contemplation of, the transfer, even if they were n
ot entered into at the time of transfer. Control is generally considered to have been surrendered when (i) the transferred assets 
have been 
legally isolated from us or any of our consolidated affiliates, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, (ii) the transferee (
or, if the 
transferee is an entity whose sole purpose is to engage in securitization or asset-backed financing that is constrained from pl
edging or exchanging the assets it receives, each third-party holder of its beneficial interests) has the right to pledge or exchange the
 assets (or beneficial interests) it received without any constraints that provide more than a trivial benefit to us, and (iii) neither we 
nor our 
consolidated affiliates and agents have (a) both the right and obligation under any agreement to repurchase or redeem the trans
ferred 
assets before their maturity, (b) the unilateral ability to cause the holder to return specific financial assets that also prov
ides us with a 
more-than-trivial benefit (other than through a cleanup call) or (c) an agreement that permits the transferee to require us to 
repurchase 
the transferred assets at a price so favorable that it is probable that it will require us to repurchase them.  
 If the sale criteria are met, the transferred financial assets are removed from our balance sheet and a gain or loss on sale is
 recognized. If the sale criteria are not met, the transfer is recorded as a secured borrowing in which the assets remain on our
 balance 
sheet and the proceeds from the transaction are recognized as a liability. For the majority of financial asset transfers, it is
 clear whether 
or not we have surrendered control. For other transfers, such as in connection with complex transactions or where we have conti
nuing 
involvement, we generally obtain a legal opinion as to whether the transfer results in a true sale by law.  
 We have historically securitized certain automobile receivables. Gains and losses on the loans and leases sold and servicing ri
ghts 
associated with loan and lease sales are determined when the related loans or leases are sold to either a securitization trust 
or third party.  For loan or lease sales with servicing retained, a servicing asset is recorded at fair value for the right to service t
he loans sold. 
 Derivative Financial Instruments Š 
A variety of derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, caps, floors, and 
collars, are used in asset and liability management activities to protect against the risk of adverse price or interest rate mo
vements. 
These instruments provide flexibility in adjusting Huntington™s sensitivity to changes in interest rates without exposure to lo
ss of principal and higher funding requirements.  
 112 
 Huntington also uses derivatives, principally loan sale commitments, in hedging its mortgage loan interest rate lock commitment
s and its mortgage loans held for sale.  Mortgage loan sale commitments and the related interest rate lock commitments are carrie
d at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair value reflected in mortgage banking income.  Huntington also
 uses 
certain derivative financial instruments to offset changes in value of its MSRs.  These derivatives consist primarily of forwar
d interest rate agreements and forward mortgage contracts.  The derivative instruments used are not designated as hedges.  Accordingly, su
ch derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in mortgage banking income.   
 Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in accrued 
income and other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value.  On the date a der
ivative contract is entered into, we designate it as either: 
  a qualifying hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value 
hedge); 
  a qualifying hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset liability or forecaste
d transaction (cash flow hedge); or 
  a trading instrument or a non-qualifying (economic) hedge. 
 Changes in the fair value of a derivative that has been designated 
and qualifies as a fair value 
hedge, along with the changes 
in the 
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in current period earnings. C
hanges in the 
fair value of a derivative that has been designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, to the extent effective as a hedge, are
 recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, and reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedg
ed item affects earnings. Ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship is reflected in current period earnings. Changes in the fair
 value of derivatives held for trading purposes or which do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in current period earnings.  
 For those derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied, Huntington formally documents the hedging relationship and the risk
 management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged i
tem 
or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, and, unless the hedge meets all of the criteria to assume there is no inef
fectiveness, 
the method that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument and how ineffectiveness will be measured. Th
e methods utilized to assess retrospective hedge effectiveness, as well as the frequency of testing, vary based on the type of it
em being 
hedged and the designated hedge period. For specifically designated fair value hedges of certain fixed-rate debt, Huntington ut
ilizes the short-cut method when certain criteria are met. For other fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt, including certificates of d
eposit,   Huntington utilizes the regression method to evaluate hedge effectiveness on a quarterly basis. For fair value hedges of portfo
lio loans, the regression method is used to evaluate effectiveness on a daily basis. For cash flow hedges, the regression method is applie
d on a 
quarterly basis.  

 Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when: 
  the derivative is no longer effective or expected to be effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a 
hedged item (including firm commitments or forecasted transactions); 
  the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised; 
  it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur; 
  the hedged firm commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or 
  the designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument is removed. 
 When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair val
ue 
or cash flow hedge, the derivative will continue to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value.  
 In the case of a discontinued fair value hedge of a recognized asset or liability, as long as the hedged item continues to exis
t on 
the balance sheet, the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair value. The basis adjustment that had previous
ly been 
recorded to the hedged item during the period from the hedge designation date to the hedge discontinuation date is recognized a
s an 
adjustment to the yield of the hedged item over the remaining life of the hedged item. 
    113 
In the case of a discontinued cash flow hedge of a recognized asset or liability, as long as the hedged item continues to exist
 on the balance sheet, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the hedging derivative will no longer be recorded to o
ther 
comprehensive income. The balance applicable to the discontinued hedging relationship will be recognized in earnings over the 

remaining life of the hedged item as an adjustment to yield. If the discontinued hedged item was a forecasted transaction that 
is not expected to occur, any amounts recorded on the balance sheet related to the hedged item, including any amounts recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to current period earnings. 

 In the case of either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge, if the previously hedged item is sold or extinguished, the basis
 adjustment to the underlying asset or liability or any remaining unamortized other comprehensive income balance will be reclass
ified to current period earnings. 
 In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative will be carried at fair value on the consolid
ated balance sheets, with changes in its fair value recognized in current period earnings unless re-designated as a qualifying hedge
.  Like other financial instruments, derivatives contain an element of credit risk, which is the possibility that Huntington will 
incur a loss because the counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations. Notional values of interest rate swaps and other off-b
alance 
sheet financial instruments significantly exceed the credit risk associated with these instruments and represent contractual ba
lances on 
which calculations of amounts to be exchanged are based. Credit exposure is limited to the sum of the aggregate fair value of p
ositions that have become favorable to Huntington, including any accrued interest receivable due from counterparties. Potential credit l
osses 
are mitigated through careful evaluation of counterparty credit 
standing, selection of counterparties from a limited group of h
igh 
quality institutions, collateral agreements, and other contract provisions.  Huntington considers the value of collateral held 
and collateral provided in determining the net carrying value of derivatives. 
 Huntington offsets the fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and the fair value for the right to reclaim cas
h collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instrument(s) recognized at fair value executed 
with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. 
 Repossessed Collateral Š 
Repossessed collateral, also referred to as other real estate owned (OREO), is comprised principally of 
commercial and residential real estate properties obtained in partial or total satisfaction of loan obligations, and is carried
 at the lower of cost or fair value. Collateral obtained in satisfaction of a loan is recorded at the estimated fair value less anticipated s
elling costs based upon the property™s appraised value at the date of foreclosure, with any difference between the fair value of the propert
y and the 
carrying value of the loan recorded as a charge-off. Subsequent declines in value are reported as adjustments to the carrying a
mount 
and are recorded in noninterest expense. Gains or losses resulting from the sale of collateral are recognized in noninterest ex
pense at 
the date of sale. 

 Collateral Š We pledge assets as collateral as required for various transactions including security repurchase agreements, public 
deposits, loan notes, derivative financial instruments, short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings. Assets that have been p
ledged 
as collateral, including those that can be sold or repledged by the secured party, continue to be reported on our Consolidated 
Balance Sheets.  We also accept collateral, primarily as part of various transactions including derivative and security resale agreements. Colla
teral accepted by us, including collateral that we can sell or repledge, is excluded from our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 The market value of collateral we have accepted or pledged is regularly monitored and additional collateral is obtained or 
provided as necessary to ensure appropriate collateral coverage in these transactions. 
 Premises and Equipment Š
 Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation 
is computed principally by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Buildings and buildi
ng 
improvements are depreciated over an average of 30 to 40 years and 10 to 30 years, respectively. Land improvements and furnitur
e and fixtures are depreciated over an average of 5 to 20 years, while equipment is depreciated over a range of 3 to 10 years. Le
asehold 
improvements are amortized over the lesser of the asset™s useful life or the lease term, including any renewal periods for whic
h renewal is reasonably assured. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while improvements that extend the u
seful life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life. Premises and equipment is evaluated for impair
ment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
  Mortgage Servicing Rights Š
 Huntington recognizes the rights to service mortgage loans as separate assets, which are included in 
accrued income and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets when purchased, or when servicing is contractually separated
 from the underlying mortgage loans by sale or securitization of the loans with servicing rights retained.   

    114 
For loan sales with servicing retained, a servicing asset is recorded at fair value for the right to service the loans sold. To
 determine the fair value of a MSR, Huntington uses an option adjusted spread cash flow analysis incorporating market implied 
forward interest rates to estimate the future direction of mortgage and market interest rates.  The forward rates utilized are 
derived 
from the current yield curve for U.S. dollar interest rate swaps and are consistent with pricing of capital markets instruments
.  The 
current and projected mortgage interest rate influences the prepayment rate and, therefore, the timing and magnitude of the cas
h flows associated with the MSR. Servicing revenues on mortgage loans are included in mortgage banking income. 

 At the time of initial capitalization, MSRs may be grouped into servicing classes based on the availability of market inputs us
ed in determining fair value and the method used for managing the risks of the servicing assets.  MSR assets are recorded using the f
air value method or the amortization method.  The election of the fair value or amortization method is made at the time each servic
ing 
class is established.   All newly created MSRs since 2009 were recorded using the amortization method.  Any change in the fair 
value 
of MSRs carried under the fair value method, as well as amortization and impairment of MSRs under the amortization method, duri
ng the period is recorded in mortgage banking income, which is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Huntington hedg
es 
the value of certain MSRs using derivative instruments and trading securities. Changes in fair value of these derivatives and t
rading 
account securities are reported as a component of mortgage banking income. 
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Š 
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the net assets of entities acquired by 
Huntington are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess cost of the acquisition over the f
air value of 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Other intangible assets are amortized either on an accelerated or straight-line ba
sis over 
their estimated useful lives.  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis at October 1
st of each year or whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Other intangible assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. 

  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
 Š We recognize the funded status of the postretirement benefit plans on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Net postretirement benefit cost charged to current earnings related to these plans is based on va
rious actuarial assumptions regarding expected future experience.  
 Certain employees are participants in various defined contribution and other non-qualified supplemental retirement plans. Our 
contributions to these plans are charged to current earnings.  
 In addition, we maintain a 401(k) plan covering substantially all employees. Employer contributions to the plan, which are 
charged to current earnings, are based on employee contributions. 
 Share-Based Compensation
 Š We use the fair value based method of accounting for awards of HBAN stock granted to employees 
under various stock option and restricted share plans. Stock compensation costs are recognized prospectively for all new awards
 granted under these plans. Compensation expense relating to share options is calculated using a methodology that is based on th
e underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes option pricing model and is charged to expense over the requisite service period (e
.g. vesting period). Compensation expense relating to restricted stock awards is based upon the fair value of the awards on the dat
e of grant and is charged to earnings over the requisite service period (e.g., vesting period) of the award.
  Stock Repurchases Š 
Acquisitions of Huntington stock are recorded at cost. The re-issuance of shares is recorded at weighted-
average cost. 
 Income Taxes Š 
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are recognized for the future book and tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement c
arrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined u
sing enacted 
tax rates expected to apply in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effec
t on 
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income at the time of enactment of such change in
 tax rates. 
Any interest or penalties due for payment of income taxes are included in the provision for income taxes. To the extent that we
 do not 
consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is recorded. All positive a
nd negative 
evidence is reviewed when determining how much of a valuation allowance is recognized on a quarterly basis. In determining the 

requirements for a valuation allowance, sources of possible taxable income are evaluated including future reversals of existing
 taxable 
temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in 
appropriate carryback years, and tax-planning strategies. Huntington applies a more likely than not recognition threshold for a
ll tax uncertainties.   Bank Owned Life Insurance Š 
Huntington™s bank owned life insurance policies are recorded at their cash surrender value. 
Huntington recognizes tax-exempt income from the periodic increases in the cash surrender value of these policies and from deat
h benefits.  A portion of the cash surrender value is supported by holdings in separate accounts.  Book value protection for the 
separate 
accounts is provided by the insurance carriers and a highly rated major bank.
    115 
Fair Value Measurements Š 
The Company records or discloses certain of its assets and liabilities at fair value.  Fair value is defined 
as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or m
ost advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  
Fair 
value measurements are classified within one of three levels in 
a valuation hierarchy based upon the transparency of inputs to 
the 
valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date.  The three levels are defined as follows: 
 Level 1 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
 Level 2 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs 
that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial
 instrument. 
 Level 3 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. 
 A financial instrument™s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is signific
ant to the fair value measurement. 
 Segment Results  Š  
Accounting policies for the business segments are the same as those used in the preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements with respect to activities specifically attributable to each business segment. However, the preparation of
 business 
segment results requires Management to establish methodologies to allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses, and other fina
ncial elements to each business segment. Changes are made in these methodologies as appropriate.  

 Statement of Cash Flows Š 
Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and due from banks which includes amounts on deposit 
with the Federal Reserve and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements. 
 Transactions with Related Parties Š 
 In the normal course of business, we may enter into transactions with various related parties. 
These transactions occur at prevailing market rates and terms and include funding arrangements, transfers of financial assets, 
administrative and operational support, and other miscellaneous services. 
 2.  ACCOUNTING STANDARDS UPDATE  
 ASU 2013-11Š Income Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss 
Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or 
a Tax Credit Carr
yforward Exists.
   The ASU requires that an unrecognized tax benefit, or 
a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a
 net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward.  However, unrecognized tax benefits should be pr
esented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets in circumstances where availabil
ity or legal requirement and intent to settle additional incomes taxes is not met.  The amendments were applied prospectively and were
 effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning January 1, 2014.  The amendments did not have a material impact to
 Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2014-01Š Investments (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects.
    
The amendments in ASU 2014-01 permit entities to make an accounting policy election to account for investments in qualified 
affordable housing projects using the proportional amortization method if certain conditions are met. Under the proportional 
amortization method, an entity recognizes the net investment performance in the income statement as a component of income tax 
expense (benefit).  Huntington elected to early adopt the amended guidance during the first quarter of 2014.  The guidance was 
applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented. The adoption resulted in an immaterial adjustment reducing retained ear
nings at 
the beginning of 2010.  The impact to current period net income was not material.  See discussion on Low Income Housing Tax Cre
dit Partnerships in Note 19 for further information on this topic.    
 ASU 2014-04Š Receivables (Topic 310): Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans 
upon Foreclosure. 
  The ASU clarifies that an in substance repossession or foreclosure occurs upon either the creditor obtaining legal 
title to the residential real estate property or the borrower conveying all interest in the residential real estate property to
 the creditor to 
satisfy that loan through completion of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or through a similar legal agreement. The amendments are 
effective for annual periods, and interim reporting periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2014.  Th
e amendments may be adopted using either a modified retrospective transition method or a prospective transition method. Managemen
t does not believe the amendments will have a material impact to Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    116 
ASU 2014-09ŠRevenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606):  The amendments in ASU 2014-09 supersede the revenue 
recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance.
  The general principle of the 
amendments require an entity to recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount tha
t reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.  The guidance se
ts forth a 
five step approach to be utilized for revenue recognition.  The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning
 after 
December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period.  Management is currently assessing the impact to 

Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2014-11Š Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings, and 
Disclosures.
  The amendments in the ASU require repurchase-to-maturity transactions to be recorded and accounted for as secured 
borrowings.  Amendments to Topic 860 also require separate accounting for a transfer of a financial asset executed 
contemporaneously with a repurchase agreement with the same counterparty (i.e., a repurchase financing), which will result in s
ecured 
borrowing accounting for the repurchase agreement, as well as additional required disclosures.  The accounting amendments and 
disclosures are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2014. The disclosures for repurchase 

agreements, securities lending transactions, and repurchase-to-maturity transactions accounted for as secured borrowings are re
quired 
to be presented for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2014, and for interim periods beginning after March 15, 2015.  
Management is currently assessing the impact to Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2014-12Š CompensationŠStock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of 
an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period.
  The amendments require 
that a performance target that affects vesting, and that could be achieved after the requisite service period, be treated as a 
performance 
condition. Specifically, if the performance target becomes probable of being achieved before the end of the requisite service p
eriod, 
the remaining unrecognized compensation cost should be recognized prospectively over the remaining requisite service period.  T
he 
amendments are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. 
Management is currently assessing the impact to Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2014-13ŠConsolidation (Topic 810): Measuring the Financial Assets and the Financial Liabilities of a Consolidated 
Collateralized Financing Entity
 The amendments allow a reporting entity that consolidates a collateralized financing entity within 
the scope of the guidance to elect to measure the financial assets and the financial liabilities of that collateralized financi
ng entity 
using the measurement alternative.  Under the measurement alternative, the reporting entity should measure both the financial a
ssets 
and the financial liabilities of that collateralized financing entity in its consolidated financial statements using the more o
bservable of 
the fair value of the financial assets and the fair value of the financial liabilities.  The amendments are effective for annua
l periods, and 
interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2015.  Management does not believe the amendments wil
l have a material impact to Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements.
  ASU 2014-14Š ReceivablesŠTroubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40): Classification of Certain 
Government-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure.
  The amendments require a mortgage loan to be derecognized and a 
separate receivable to be recognized upon foreclosure if the loan has a government guarantee that is non-separable from the loa
n before foreclosure, the creditor has the ability and intent to convey the real estate property to the guarantor, and any amount
 of the claim that is determined on the basis of the fair value of the real estate is fixed.
  Additionally, the separate other receivable should be 
measured based on the amount of the loan balance (principal and interest) expected to be recovered from the guarantor upon 
foreclosure.  The amendments are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after 
December 15, 2014. Management does not believe the amendments will have a material impact to Huntington™s Consolidated 

Financial Statements.  3.  LOANS AND LEASES AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
  Loans and leases for which Huntington has the intent an
d ability to hold for 
the foreseeable future, or 
until maturity or payof
f, are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as loans and leases.  Except for loans which are accounted for at fair value, loa
ns and 
leases are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs and net of 
unearned income.  At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the aggregate amount of these net unamortized deferred loan origination fees and net 
unearned income was $178.7 million and $192.9 million, respectively.   
   117 
 Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition 
 The table below summarizes the Company™s primary portfolios.  For ACL purposes, these portfolios are further disaggregated 
into classes which are also summarized in the table below. 
 Portfolio Class 
Commercial and industrial Owner occupied 
 Purchased credit-impaired 
 Other commercial and industrial 
Commercial real estate Retail properties 
 Multi family 
 Office 
 Industrial and warehouse 
 Purchased credit-impaired 
 Other commercial real estate 
Automobile NA (1) 
Home equity Secured by first-lien 
 Secured by junior-lien 
Residential mortgage Residential mortgage 
 Purchased credit-impaired 
Other consumer Other consumer 
 Purchased credit-impaired 
(1)  Not applicable.  The automobile loan portfolio is not further segregated into classes. 
 Direct Financing Leases 
 Huntington™s loan and lease portfolio includes lease financing receivables consisting of direct financing leases on equipment, 
which are included in C&I loans.  Net investments in lease financing receivables by category at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were
 as 
follows: 
    At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
  2014   2013 
Commercial and industrial:  
   Lease payments receivable $1,051,744$1,426,928
   Estimated residual value of leased assets   483,407  409,184
Gross investment in commercial lease financing receivables   1,535,151  1,836,112
Net deferred origination costs   2,557  3,105
Unearned income 
  (131,027)  (165,052)
Total net investment in commercial lease financing receivables  $ 1,406,681 $1,674,165
 The future lease rental payments due from customers on direct financing leases at December 31, 2014, totaled $1.1 billion and 
were as follows: $0.3 billion in 2015, $0.2 billion in 2016, $0.2 billion in 2017, $0.1 billion in 2018, $0.1 billion in 2019, 
and $0.2 thereafter. 
 Fidelity Bank acquisition 
 On March 30, 2012, Huntington acquired the loans of Fidelity Bank located in Dearborn, Michigan from the FDIC. Under the 
agreement, loans with a fair value of $523.9 million were acquired by Huntington.
   Camco Financial acquisition  On March 1, 2014, Huntington completed its acquisition of Camco Financial in a stock and cash transaction valued at $109.5 
million. Loans with a fair value of $559.4 million were acquired by Huntington.  
  118 
Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 
 Purchased loans with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable at acquisition that
 we 
will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are considered to be credit impaired.  Purchased credit-impaired 
loans are 
initially recorded at fair value, which is estimated by discounting the cash flows expected to be collected at the acquisition 
date. Because the estimate of expected cash flows reflects an estimate of future credit losses expected to be incurred over the life 
of the loans, an allowance for credit losses is not recorded at the acquisition date.  The excess of cash flows expected at acquisitio
n over the 
estimated fair value, referred to as the accretable yield, is recognized in interest income over the remaining life of the loan
, or pool of 
loans, on a level-yield basis.  The difference between the contractually required payments at acquisition and the cash flows ex
pected to 
be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference.  A subsequent decrease in the estimate of cash flow
s expected to be received on purchased credit-impaired loans generally results in the recognition of an allowance for credit losses.  Subs
equent 
increases in cash flows result in reversal of any nonaccretable difference (or allowance for loan and lease losses to the exten
t any has 
been recorded) with a positive impact on interest income subsequently recognized.  The measurement of cash flows involves 
assumptions and judgments for interest rates, prepayments, default rates, loss severity, and collateral values.  All of these f
actors are 
inherently subjective and significant changes in the cash flow estimates over the life of the loan can result. 
 The following table reflects the contractually required payments receivable, cash flows expected to be collected, and fair valu
e of the credit impaired Camco Financial loans at acquisition date: 
  March 1,
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 
Contractually required payments including interest $14,363 
Less: nonaccretable difference  (11,234)
Cash flows expected to be collected  3,129 
Less: accretable yield  (143)
Fair value of credit impaired loans acquired $2,986 
 The following table presents a rollforward of the accretable yield by acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013
:   (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 
 2013 
Fidelity Bank  
    Balance at January 1, $ 27,995 
 $23,251
Accretion  (13,485)
 (15,931)
Reclassification from nonaccretable difference
   4,878 
 20,675Balance at December 31,  $ 19,388 
 $27,995
      Camco Financial 
    Impact of acquisition on March 1, 2014  143 
  ---
Accretion  (5,597)
 ---
Reclassification from nonaccretable difference
   6,278 
 ---
Balance at December 31,  $ 824 
 $---
    119 
The allowance for loan losses recorded on the purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was  $4.1 
million and $2.4 million, respectively. The following table reflects the ending and unpaid balances of all contractually requir
ed payments and carrying amounts of the acquired loans by acquisition at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013: 

   December 31, 2014  December 31, 2013 
(in thousands) 
Ending Balance Unpaid Balance  Ending Balance Unpaid Balance       
Fidelity Bank      
Commercial and industrial $22,405
 $33,622 $ 35,526
 $50,798
Commercial real estate  36,663
  87,250  82,073
  154,869
Residential mortgage  1,912
  3,096  2,498
  3,681
Other consumer  51
  123  129
  219
Total $61,031
 $124,091 $ 120,226
 $209,567
   
     
   Camco Financial 
     
Commercial and industrial $823
 $1,685 $ ---
 $---
Commercial real estate  1,708
  3,826  ---
  ---
Total $2,531
 $5,511 $ ---
 $---
 Loan Purchases and Sales 
The following table summarizes significant portfolio loan purchase and sale activity for the years ended December 31, 2014, and
 2013.  The table below excludes mortgage loans originated for sale.  
   Commercial Commercial  Home Residential  Other  
 and Industrial Real Estate AutomobileEquity Mortgage  ConsumerTotal 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
            
Portfolio loans purchased during the:      
 Year ended December 31, 2014 $ 326,557 $ ---$---$---$18,482 $ ---$345,039
 Year ended December 31, 2013 109,723  --- --- --- ---  ---109,723
Portfolio loans sold or transferred to loans held for sale during the:      
 Year ended December 31, 2014 352,062 8,447---------  7,592368,101

 Year ended December 31, 2013 225,930 4,767------205,334  ---436,031
    120 
NALs and Past Due Loans 
 The following table presents NALs by loan class for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
    December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013 
Commercial and industrial:     
 Owner occupied 
$41,285$38,321
 Other commercial and industrial  30,689 18,294
Total commercial and industrial $71,974$56,615
Commercial real estate:     
 Retail properties 
$21,385$27,328
 Multi family 
 9,743 9,289
 Office 
 7,707 18,995
 Industrial and warehouse  3,928 6,310
 Other commercial real estate  5,760 11,495
Total commercial real estate $48,523$73,417
Automobile 
$4,623$6,303
Home equity: 
    
 Secured by first-lien $46,938$36,288
 Secured by junior-lien  31,622 29,901
Total home equity 
$78,560$66,189
Residential mortgage 
$96,564$119,532
Other consumer 
$---$---
Total nonaccrual loans $300,244$322,056
 The amount of interest that would have been recorded under the original terms for total NAL loans was $20.6 million, $23.4 
million, and $40.4 million for 2014, 2013, and  2012, respectively. The total amount of interest recorded to interest income fo
r these 
loans was $8.4 million, $5.0 million, and $4.8 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. 
 The following table presents an aging analysis of loans and leases, including past due loans and leases, by loan class for the 
years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (1):   
 December 31, 2014  
               90 or more  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Past Due    Total Loans  days past due 
 30-59 days 60-89 days 90 or more daysTotal  Current and Leases  and accruing 
Commercial and industrial:                  
 Owner occupied $ 5,232 $ 2,981$18,222$26,435 $4,228,440 $ 4,254,875 $--- 
 Purchased credit-impaired  846  ---
 4,937 5,783  17,445 
 23,228  4,937(2) 
 Other commercial and 
industrial  15,330  1,536 9,101 25,967  14,729,076  14,755,043  --- 
Total commercial and industrial $ 21,408 $ 4,517$
32,260$58,185 $18,974,961 $ 
19,033,146 $4,937 
Commercial real estate:                  
 Retail properties $ 7,866 $ ---$4,021$11,887 $1,345,859 $ 1,357,746 $--- 
 Multi family  1,517  312 3,337 5,166  1,085,250  1,090,416  --- 
 Office  464  1,167 4,415 6,046  974,257  980,303  --- 
 Industrial and warehouse  688  --- 
2,649 3,337  510,064  513,401  --- 
 Purchased credit-impaired  89  289 18,793 19,171  19,200  38,371  18,793(2) 
 Other commercial real estate 847  1,281 3,966 6,094  1,211,072  1,217,166  --- 
Total commercial real estate $ 11,471 $ 3,049$37,181$51,701$5,145,702 $ 5,197,403 $18,793 
 121 
Automobile $ 56,272 $ 10,427$5,963$72,662 $8,617,240 $ 8,689,902 $5,703 
Home equity:                  
 Secured by first-lien $ 15,036 $ 8,085$33,014$56,135 $5,072,669 $ 5,128,804 $4,471 
 Secured by junior-lien  22,473  12,297 33
,406 68,176  3,293,935 
 3,362,111  7,688 
Total home equity $ 37,509 $ 20,382$66,420$124,311 $8,366,604 $ 8,490,915 $12,159 
Residential mortgage:                  

 Residential mortgage $ 102,702 $ 42,009$139,379$284,090 $5,544,607 $ 5,828,697 $88,052(3) 
 Purchased credit-impaired  ---  --- --- ---  1,912  1,912  ---(2) 
Total residential mortgage $ 102,702 $ 42,009$139
,379$284,090 $5,546,519 $ 5,830,609 $88,052 
Other consumer:                  
 Other consumer $ 5,491 $ 1,086$837$7,414 $406,286 $ 413,700 $837 
 Purchased credit-impaired  ---  --- --- ---  51  51  ---(2) 
Total other consumer $ 5,491 $ 1,086$837$7,414 $406,337 $ 413,751 $837 
Total loans and leases $ 234,853 $ 81,470$282,040$598,363 $47,057,363 $ 47,655,726 $130,481 
                   
December 31, 2013 
                90 or more  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Past Due    Total Loans  days past due 
 30-59 days 60-89 days 90 or more daysTotal  Current and Leases  and accruing 
Commercial and industrial:                  
 Owner occupied $ 5,935 $ 1,879$25,658$33,472 $4,314,400 $ 4,347,872 $--- 
 Purchased credit-impaired  241  433 14,562 15,236  20,290  35,526  14,562(2) 
 Other commercial and 
industrial  10,342  3,075 11,210 24,627  13,186,251  13,210,878  --- 
Total commercial and industrial $ 16,518 $ 5,38
7$51,430$73,335 $17,520,941 $ 17,594,276 $14,562 
Commercial real estate:                  
 Retail properties $ 19,372 $ 1,228$5,252$25,852 $1,237,717 $ 1,263,569 $--- 
 Multi family  2,425  943 6,726 10,094  1,015,497  1,025,591  --- 
 Office  1,635  545 12,700 14,880  927,413  942,293  --- 
 Industrial and warehouse  465  3,714 4,395 8,574  464,319  472,893  --- 
 Purchased credit-impaired  1,311  --- 39,142 40,453  41,620  82,073  39,142(2) 
 Other commercial real estate 5,922  1,134 7,192 14,248  1,049,427  1,063,675  --- 
Total commercial real estate $ 31,130 $ 7,564$75,407$114,101$4,735,993 $ 4,850,094 $39,142 
Automobile $ 45,174 $ 8,863$5,140$59,177 $6,579,536 $ 6,638,713 $5,055 
Home equity:                  
 Secured by first-lien $ 20,551 $ 8,746$28,472$57,769 $4,784,375 $ 4,842,144 $6,338 
 Secured by junior-lien  28,965  13,071 31
,392 73,428  3,420,746 
 3,494,174  7,645 
Total home equity  49,516 $ 21,817$59,864$131,197 $8,205,121 $ 8,336,318 $13,983 
Residential mortgage:                  
 Residential mortgage  101,584 $ 41,784$158,9
56$302,324 $5,016,266 $ 5,318,590 $90,115(4) 
 Purchased credit-impaired  194  --- 339 533  1,965  2,498  339(2) 
Total residential mortgage $ 101,778 $ 41,784$159
,295$302,857 $5,018,231 $ 5,321,088 $90,454 
Other consumer:                  
 Other consumer  6,465 $ 1,276$998$8,739 $371,143 $ 379,882 $998 
 Purchased credit-impaired  69  --- --- 69  60  129  ---(2) 
Total other consumer $ 6,534 $ 1,276$998$8,808 $371,203 $ 380,011 $998 
Total loans and leases $ 250,650 $ 86,691$352,134$689,475 $42,431,025 $ 43,120,500 $164,194 
   122 
(1) 
NALs are included in this aging analysis based on the loan's past due status.  
(2) All amounts represent accruing purchased credit-impaired loans related to the Camco Financial and FDIC-assisted Fidelity Ba
nk acquisition.  Under the applicable accounting guidance (ASC-310-30), the loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and
 remain in accruing status. 
 (3) Includes $55,012 thousand guaranteed by the U.S. government.  
(4) Includes $87,985 thousand guaranteed by the U.S. government.  
 Allowance for Credit Losses 
 The ACL is increased through a provision for credit losses that is charged to earnings, based on Management™s quarterly 
evaluation of the factors previously mentioned, and is reduced by charge-offs, net of recoveries, and the ACL associated with 
securitized or sold loans.  There were no material changes in assumptions or estimation techniques compared with prior periods 
that impacted the determination of the current period™s ALLL and AULC.  
 During a 2013 review of our consumer portfolios, we identified additional loans associated with borrowers who had filed Chapter
 7 bankruptcy and had not reaffirmed their debt, thus meeting the definition of collateral dependent per OCC regulatory guidance
.  These loans were not identified in the 2012 third quarter implementation of the OCC™s regulatory guidance.  The bankruptcy cour
t™s discharge of the borrower™s debt is considered a concession when the discharged debt is not reaffirmed, and as such, the loan i
s placed 
on nonaccrual status, and written down to collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.  As a result of the review of our e
xisting consumer portfolios, additional NCOs of $22.8 million were recorded in 2013.  The majority of the NCO impact was in the home 
equity portfolio and relates to junior-lien loans that meet the regulatory guidance. 
 The following table presents ALLL and AULC activity by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 
2012: 
    CommercialCommercial Home Residential Other   
 and IndustrialReal Estate AutomobileEquity Mortgage ConsumerTotal 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
              
Year ended December 31, 2014: 
              
 ALLL balance, beginning of 
period $ 265,801$162,557$31,053
$111,131$39,577 $ 37,751$647,870
  Loan charge-offs  (76,654) (24,704) (31,330) (54,473) (25,946) (33,494) (246,601)
  Recoveries of loans previously 
charged-off  44,531 34,071 13,762 17,526 6,194  5,890 121,974
  Provision for loan and lease losses  53,317 (69,085) 19,981 22,229 27,386  29,254 83,082
  Allowance for loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for sale  --- --- --- --- ---  (1,129) (1,129)
 ALLL balance, end of period $ 286,99
5$102,839$33,466$96,413$47,211 $ 38,272$605,196
                 
 AULC balance, beginning of period $ 49,596$9,891$---$1,763$9 $ 1,640$62,899
  Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters of credit  (608) (3,850) --- 161 (1) 2,205 (2,093)
 AULC balance, end of period $ 48,988$6,041$---$1,924$8 $ 3,845$60,806
 ACL balance, end of period $ 335,983$108,880$33,466$98,337$47,219 $ 42,117$666,002
    123 
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
              
                 
Year ended December 31, 2013: 
              
                 
 ALLL balance, beginning of 
period $ 241,051$285,369$34,979
$118,764$61,658 $ 27,254$769,075
  Loan charge-offs  (45,904) (69,512) (23,912) (98,184) (34,236) (34,568) (306,316)
  Recoveries of loans previously 
charged-off  29,514 44,658 13,375 15,921 7,074  7,108 117,650
  Provision for loan and lease losses  41,140 (97,958) 6,611 74,630 5,417  37,957 67,797
  Allowance for loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for sale  --- --- --- --- (336) --- (336)
 ALLL balance, end of period $ 265,801$
162,557$31,053$111,131$
39,577 $ 37,751$647,870
                 
 AULC balance, beginning of period $ 33,868$4,740$---$1,356$3 $ 684$40,651
  Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters of credit  15,728 5,151 --- 407 6  956 22,248
 AULC balance, end of period $ 49,596$9,891$---$1,763$9 $ 1,640$62,899
 ACL balance, end of period $ 315,397$172,448$31,053$112,894$39,586 $ 39,391$710,769
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
              
Year Ended December 31, 2012: 
              
                 
 ALLL balance, beginning of 
period $ 275,367$388,706$38,282
$143,873$87,194 $ 31,406$964,828
  Loan charge-offs (101,475)(118,051)(26,070)(124,286)(52,228)(33,090)(455,200)
  Recoveries of loans previously 
charged-off  37,227 39,622 16,628 7,907 4,305  7,049 112,738
  Provision for loan and lease losses  29,932
 (24,908) 12,964 91,270 24,046  21,889 155,193
  Allowance for loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for sale  --- --- (6,825) --- (1,659) --- (8,484)
 ALLL balance, end of period $ 241,051$
285,369$34,979$118,764$
61,658 $ 27,254$769,075
 AULC balance, beginning of period $ 39,658$5,852$---$2,134$1 $ 811$48,456
  Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters-of-credit  
(5,790) (1,112) --- (778
) 2  (127) (7,805)
 AULC balance, end of period  33,868 4,740 --- 1,356 3  684 40,651
 ACL balance, end of period $ 274,919$290,109$34,979$120,120$61,661 $ 27,938$809,726
                 
 Credit Quality Indicators  To facilitate the monitoring of credit quality for C&I and CRE loans, and for purposes of determining an appropriate ACL level 
for these loans, Huntington utilizes the following categories of credit grades:   
 Pass -   Higher quality loans that do not fit any of the other categories described below. 
   
OLEM -   The credit risk may be relatively minor yet represent a risk given certain specific circumstances.  If the 
potential weaknesses are not monitored or mitigated, the loan may weaken or the collateral may be 
inadequate to protect Huntington
™s position in the future. 
 For these reasons, Huntin
gton considers the loans 
to be potential problem loans. 
   Substandard -   Inadequately protected loans by the borrower™s ability to repay, equity, and/or the collateral pledged to 
secure the loan.  These loans have identified weaknesses that could hinder normal repayment or collection 
of the debt.  It is likely Huntington will sustain some loss if any identified weaknesses are not mitigated. 
   124 
 Doubtful  -  Loans that have all of the weaknesses inherent in those loans classified as Substandard, with the added 
elements of the full collection of the loan is improbable and that the possibility of loss is high. 
 The categories above, which are derived from standard regulatory rating definitions, are assigned upon initial approval of the 
loan 
or lease and subsequently updated as appropriate. 
 Commercial loans categorized as OLEM, Substandard, or Doubtful are considered Criticized loans.  Commercial loans 
categorized as Substandard or Doubtful are also considered Classified loans. 
 For all classes within all consumer loan portfolios, each loan is assigned a specific PD factor that is partially based on the 
borrower™s most recent credit bureau score, which we update quarterly.  A credit bureau score is a credit score developed by Fa
ir Isaac 
Corporation based on data provided by the credit bureaus.  The credit bureau score is widely accepted as the standard measure o
f consumer credit risk used by lenders, regulators, rating agencies, and consumers.  The higher the credit bureau score, the high
er likelihood of repayment and therefore, an indicator of higher credit quality. 
 Huntington assesses the risk in the loan portfolio by utilizing numerous risk characteristics.  The classifications described a
bove, 
and also presented in the table below, represent one of those characteristics that are closely monitored in the overall credit 
risk management processes.   
 
The following table presents each loan and lease class by credit quality indicator for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 
2013: 
   December 31, 2014 
 Credit Risk Profile by UCS classification 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pass OLEM Substandard Doubtful Total 
Commercial and industrial:           
 Owner occupied $3,959,046$117,637$175,767 $2,425$4,254,875
 Purchased impaired 3,91574114,901 3,67123,228
 Other commercial and industrial  13,925,334 386,666 440,036  3,007 14,755,043
Total commercial and industrial $17,888,295$505,044$630,704 $9,103$19,033,146
Commercial real estate:           

 Retail properties $1,279,064$10,204$67,911 $567$1,357,746
 Multi family  1,044,521 12,608 32,322  965 1,090,416
 Office  902,474 33,107 42,578  2,144 980,303
 Industrial and warehouse  487,
454 7,877 17,781  289 513,401
 Purchased impaired  6,914 803 25,460  5,194 38,371
 Other commercial real estate  1,166,29
3 9,635 40,019  1,
219 1,217,166
Total commercial real estate $4,886,72
0$74,234$226,071 
$10,378$5,197,403
  Credit Risk Profile by FICO score (1) 
  750+ 650-749 <650 Other (2) Total 
Automobile $4,165,811$3,249,141$1,028,381 $246,569$8,689,902
Home equity:           
 Secured by first-lien $3,255,088$1,426,191$283,152 $164,373$5,128,804
 Secured by junior-lien  1,832,663 1,095,332 348,825  85,291 3,362,111
Total home equity $5,087,751$2,521,523$631,977 $249,664$8,490,915
Residential mortgage:           

 Residential mortgage $3,285,310$1,785,137$666,562 $91,688$5,828,697
 Purchased impaired  594 1,135 183  --- 1,912
Total residential mortgage $3,285,904$1,786,272$666,745 $91,688$5,830,609
Other consumer:           

 Other consumer $195,128$187,781$30,582 $209$413,700
 Purchased impaired  --- 51 ---  --- 51
Total other consumer loans $195,128$187,832$30,582 $209$413,751
   125 
  December 31, 2013 
 Credit Risk Profile by UCS classification 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pass OLEM Substandard Doubtful Total 
Commercial and industrial:           
 Owner occupied $4,052,579$130,645$155,994 $8,654$4,347,872
 Purchased impaired 5,01566127,693 2,15735,526
 Other commercial and industrial  12,630,512 211,860 364,343  4,163 13,210,878
Total commercial and industrial $16,688,1
06$343,166$548,03
0 $14,974$17,594,276
Commercial real estate:           
 Retail properties $1,153,747$16,003$93,819 $---$1,263,569
 Multi family  972,526 16,540 36,411  114 1,025,591
 Office  847,411 4,86
6 87,722  2,294 942,293
 Industrial and warehouse  431,
057 14,138 27,698  --- 472,893
 Purchased impaired  13,127 3,586 62,577  2,783 82,073
 Other commercial real estate  977,98
7 16,270 68,653  765 1,063,675
Total commercial real estate $4,395,855$71,403$376,880 $5,956$4,850,094
  Credit Risk Profile by FICO score (1) 

  750+ 650-749 <650 Other (2) Total 
Automobile $2,987,323$2,517,756$945,604 $188,030$6,638,713
Home equity:           
 Secured by first-lien 3,018,7841,412,445299,681 111,2344,842,144
 Secured by junior-lien  1,811,102 1,213,024 413,695  56,353 3,494,174
Total home equity $4,829,886$2,625,469$713,376 $167,587$8,336,318
Residential mortgage:           
 Residential mortgage 2,837,5901,710,183699,541 71,2765,318,590
 Purchased impaired  588 989 921  --- 2,498
Total residential mortgage 2,838,178$1,711,172$700,462 $71,276$5,321,088
Other consumer:           
 Other consumer 161,858157,67545,370 14,979379,882
 Purchased impaired  --- 60 69  --- 129
Total other consumer loans 161,
858$157,735$45,439 $14,979$380,011
(1) Reflects currently updated customer credit scores. 
(2) Reflects deferred fees and costs, loans in process, loans to legal entities, etc. 
 Impaired Loans 
For all classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios, all loans with an outstanding balance of $1.0 million or greater are conside
red 
for individual evaluation of impairment on a quarterly basis.  Ge
nerally, consumer loans within any class are not individually 
evaluated on a regular basis for impairment.  All TDRs, regardless of the outstanding balance amount, are also considered to be
 impaired.  Loans acquired with evidence of deterioration of credit quality since origination for which it is probable at acquis
ition that all contractually required payments will not be collected are also considered to be impaired.  
 Once a loan has been identified for an assessment of impairment, the loan is considered impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not b
e collected.  This determination requires significant judgment and use of estimates, and the eventual outcome may differ signific
antly 
from those estimates. 
    126 
The following tables present the balance of the ALLL attributable to loans by portfolio segment individually and collectively 
evaluated for impairment and the related loan and lease balance for the years ended December 31, 2014, and 2013 (1):  
 
          
   Commercial Commercial  Residential Other  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
and Industrial Real Estate Automobile Home EquityMortgage Consumer Total 
          
ALLL at December 31, 2014: 
       
          
 Portion of ALLL balance:        
  Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans $3,846 $---$---$---$8 $245$4,099
  Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 

impairment 11,049 18,8871,53126,02716,535 21474,243
  Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment 272,100 83,95231,93570,38630,668 37,813526,854
 Total ALLL balance $286,995 $102,839$33,466$96,413$47,211 $38,272$605,196
          
Loans and Leases at December 31, 2014: 
      
          
 Portion of loan and lease 
ending balance:        
  Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans $23,228 $38,371$---$---$1,912 $51$63,562
  Individually evaluated for 
impairment 216,993 217,26230,612310,446369,577 4,0881,148,978
  Collectively evaluated for 
impairment 18,792,925 4,941,7708,659,2908,180,4695,459,120 409,61246,443,186
 Total loans evaluated for impairment $19,033,146 $5,197,403$8,689,902$8,490,915$5,830,609 $413,751$47,655,726
          
 Portion of ending balance of 
impaired loans:        
  With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances $202,376 $144,162$30,612$310,446$371,489 $4,139$1,063,224
  With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances  37,845  111,471 --- --- ---  --- 149,316
 Total $240,221 $255,633$30,612$310,446$371,489 $4,139$1,212,540
          
 Average balance of impaired 
loans $174,316 $511,590$34,637$258,881$384,026 $2,879$1,366,329
 ALLL on impaired loans 14,895 18,8871,53126,02716,543 45978,342
    127 
    Commercial Commercial  Residential Other  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
and Industrial Real Estate Automobile Home EquityMortgage Consumer Total 
   
          
ALLL at December 31, 2013: 
              
   
              
 Portion of ending balance: 
              
  Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans $ 2,404 $ ---$---$---$36 $ ---$2,440
  Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 
impairment  6,129  34,935 682 8,003 10,555  136 60,440
  Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment  257,268  127,622 30,371 103,128 28,986  37,615 584,990
 Total ALLL balance $ 265,801 $ 162,
557$31,053$111,131$3
9,577 $ 37,751$647,870
                 
Loans and Leases at December 31, 2013: 
            
                 
 Portion of ending balance of 
impaired loans:               
  Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans $ 35,526 $ 82,073$---$---$2,498 $ 129$120,226
  Individually evaluated for 
impairment  108,316  268,362 37,084 208,981 387,937  1,041 1,011,721
  Collectively evaluated for 
impairment  17,450,434  4,499,659 6,601,629 8,127,337 4,930,653  378,841 41,988,553
 Total loans evaluated for impairment $ 17,594,276 $ 4,850,094$6,638,713$8,336,318$5,321,088 $ 380,011$43,120,500
   
              
Portion of ending balance: 
              
 With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances $ 126,626 $ 
187,836$37,084$208,981$390,435 $ 1,041$952,003
 With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances  17,216  162,599 --- --- ---  129 179,944
Total $ 143,842 $ 350,435$37,084$208,981$390,435 $ 1,170$1,131,947
                
Average balance of impaired 
loans $ 166,173 $ 365,053$39,861$162,170$379,815 $ 2,248$1,115,320
ALLL on impaired loans  8,533  34,935 682 8,003 10,591  136 62,880
 The following tables present by class the ending, unpaid principal balance, and the related ALLL, along with the average balanc
e and interest income recognized only for loans and leases individually evaluated for impairment and purchased credit-impaired lo
ans for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (1), (2): 
   128 
           Year Ended 
 December 31, 2014  December 31, 2014 
     Unpaid     Interest 
   Ending Principal Related  Average Income 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Balance Balance (5)Allowance  Balance Recognized
          
With no related allowance recorded: 
           
 Commercial and industrial:       
  Owner occupied $13,536$13,536$--- $5,740$205
  Purchased credit-impaired --------- ------
  Other commercial and industrial  24,309 26,858 ---   7,536 375
 Total commercial and industrial $37,845$40,394$---  $13,276$580
              

 Commercial real estate:            
  Retail properties $61,915$91,627$--- $53,121$2,454
  Multi family  --- --- ---   --- ---
  Office  1,130 3,574 ---   3,709 311
  Industrial and warehouse  3,447 3,506 ---   5,012 248
  Purchased credit-impaired  38,371 91,075 ---   59,424 11,519
  Other commercial real estate  6,608 6,815 ---   6,598 286
 Total commercial real estate $111,471$196,597$---  $127,864$14,818
              

 Automobile $---$---$--- $---$---
 Home equity:            
  Secured by first-lien $---$---$---  $---$---
  Secured by junior-lien  --- --- ---   --- ---
 Total home equity $---$---$---  $---$---
 Residential mortgage:            
  Residential mortgage $---$---$---  $---$---
  Purchased credit-impaired  --- --- ---   --- ---
 Total residential mortgage $---$---$---  $---$---
 Other consumer:            
  Other consumer $---$---$---  $---$---
  Purchased credit-impaired  --- --- ---   --- ---
 Total other consumer $---$---$---  $---$---
              

With an allowance recorded:  
          
 Commercial and industrial: (3)            
  Owner occupied $44,869$53,639$4,220  $40,192$1,557
  Purchased credit-impaired 23,228 35,307 3,846   32,253 6,973
  Other commercial and industrial  134,279 162,908 6,829   88,595 2,686
 Total commercial and industrial $202,376$251,854$14,895  $161,040$11,216
              
 Commercial real estate: (4)            
  Retail properties $37,081$38,397$3,536  $63,393$1,983
  Multi family  17,277 23,725 2,339   16,897 659
  Office  52,953 56,268 8,399   52,831 2,381
  Industrial and warehouse  8,888 10,396 720   9,092 274
  Purchased credit-impaired  --- --- ---   --- ---
  Other commercial real estate  27,963 33,472 3,893   241,513 1,831
 Total commercial real estate $144,162$162,258$18,887  $383,726$7,128
         
   129 
 Automobile $30,612$32,483$1,531  $34,637$2,637
 Home equity:            
  Secured by first-lien $145,566$157,978$8,296  $126,602$5,496
  Secured by junior-lien  164,
880 208,118 17,731  
 132,279 6,379
 Total home equity $310,446$366,096$26,027  $258,881$11,875
 Residential mortgage: (6)            

  Residential mortgage $369,577$415,280$16,535  $381,745$11,594
  Purchased credit-impaired  1,912 3,096 8   2,281 574
 Total residential mortgage $371
,489$418,376$16,543 
 $384,026$12,168
 Other consumer:            
  Other consumer $4,088$4,209$214  $2,796$202
  Purchased credit-impaired  51 123 245   83 15
 Total other consumer $4,139$4,332$459  $2,879$217
 
        Year Ended 
 December 31, 2013  December 31, 2013 
     Unpaid     Interest 
   Ending Principal Related  Average Income 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Balance Balance (5)Allowance  Balance Recognized
          
With no related allowance recorded: 
           
 Commercial and Industrial:       
  Owner occupied $5,332$5,373$--- $4,473$172
  Purchased credit-impaired --------- ------
  Other commercial and industrial  11,884 15,031 ---   13,117 640
 Total commercial and industrial $17,216$20,404$---  $17,590$812
              
 Commercial real estate:            
  Retail properties $55,773$64,780$--- $46,764$2,450
  Multi family  --- --- ---   3,627 220
  Office  9,069 13,721 ---   12,151 1,161
  Industrial and warehouse  9,682 10,803 ---   10,586 595
  Purchased credit-impaired  82,073 154,869 ---   104,513 10,875
  Other commercial real estate  6,002 6,924 ---   7,954 434
 Total commercial real estate $162,599$251,097$---  $185,595$15,735
              
 Automobile $---$---$--- $---$---
 Home equity:            
  Secured by first-lien $---$---$---  $---$---
  Secured by junior-lien  --- --- ---   --- ---
 Total home equity $---$---$---  $---$---
 Residential mortgage:            

  Residential mortgage $---$---$---  $---$---
  Purchased credit-impaired  --- --- ---   --- ---
 Total residential mortgage $---$---$---  $---$---
 Other consumer:            
  Other consumer $---$---$---  $---$---

  Purchased credit-impaired  129 219 ---   137 17

 Total other consumer $129$219$---  $137$17
              
   130 
With an allowance recorded:  
          
 Commercial and Industrial: (3)            
  Owner occupied $40,271$52,810$3,421  $41,469$1,390
  Purchased credit-impaired 35,526 50,798 2,404   47,442 4,708
  Other commercial and industrial  50,829 64,497 2,708   59,672 3,242
 Total commercial and industrial $126,62
6$168,105$8,533  $148,583$9,340
              
 Commercial real estate: (4)            
  Retail properties $72,339$93,395$5,984  $64,414$1,936
  Multi family  13,484 15,408 1,944   14,922 651
  Office  50,307 54,921 9,927   48,113 1,808
  Industrial and warehouse  9,162 10,561 808   15,322 541
  Purchased credit-impaired  --- --- ---   --- ---
  Other commercial real estate  42,544 50,960 16,272   36,687 1,547
 Total commercial real estate $187,836$225,245$34,935  $179,458$6,483
         
 Automobile $37,084$38,758$682  $39,861$2,955
 Home equity:            
  Secured by first-lien $110,024$116,846$2,396  $96,184$4,116
  Secured by junior-lien  98,957
 143,967 5,607   65,986 3,379
 Total home equity $208,981$260,813$8,003  $162,170$7,495
 Residential mortgage:            

  Residential mortgage $387,937$427,924$10,555  $377,530$11,752
  Purchased credit-impaired  
2,498 3,681 36   2,285 331
 Total residential mortgage $3
90,435$431,605$1
0,591  $379,815$12,083
 Other consumer:            
  Other consumer $1,041$1,041$136  $2,111$116
  Purchased credit-impaired  --- --- ---   --- ---
 Total other consumer $1,041$1,041$136  $2,111$116
(1) These tables do not include loans fully charged-off. 
(2) All automobile, home equity, residential mortgage, and other consumer impaired loans included in these tables are considere
d impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
(3) At December 31, 2014, $62,737 thousand of the $202,376 thousand C&I loans with an allowance recorded were considered 
impaired due to their status as a TDR.  At December 31, 2013, $43,805 thousand of the $126,626 thousand C&I loans with an 
allowance recorded were considered impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
(4) At December 31, 2014, $27,423 thousand of the $144,162 thousand CRE loans with an allowance recorded were considered 
impaired due to their status as a TDR.  At December 31, 2013, $24,805 thousand of the $187,836 thousand CRE loans with an 
allowance recorded were considered impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
(5) The differences between the ending balance and unpaid principal balance amounts represent partial charge-offs. 
(6) At December 31, 2014, $24,470 thousand of the $371,489 thousand residential mortgage loans with an allowance recorded were 
guaranteed by the U.S. government.  At December 31, 2013, $49,225 thousand of the $390,435 thousand residential mortgage 
loans with an allowance recorded were guaranteed by the U.S. government. 
 TDR Loans 
 TDRs are modified loans where a concession was provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  Loan modifications 
are considered TDRs when the concessions provided are no
t available to the borrower through e
ither normal channels or other 
sources. However, not all loan modifications are TDRs.   
 
The amount of interest that would have been recorded under the original terms for total accruing TDR loans was $45.0 million, 
$43.9 million, and $41.2 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  The total amount of interest recorded to interest inc
ome for 
these loans was $38.6 milli
on, $35.7 million, and $3
2.2 million for 2014, 20
13, and 2012, respectively. 
  131 
TDR Concession Types 
 The Company™s standards relating to loan modifications consider, among other factors, minimum verified income requirements, 
cash flow analysis, and collateral valuations.  Each potential loan modification is reviewed individually and the terms of the 
loan are 
modified to meet a borrower™s specific circumstances at a point in time.  All commercial TDRs are reviewed and approved by our 
SAD. The types of concessions pr
ovided to bo
rrowers include: 
  Interest rate reduction:  A reduction of the stated interest rate to a nonmarket rate for the remaining original life of the de
bt. 
  Amortization or maturity date change beyond what the co
llateral supports, including
 any of the following: 
 (1)
 Lengthens the amortization period of the amortized principal beyond market terms.  This concession reduces the 
minimum monthly payment and increases the amount of the balloon payment at the end of the term of the loan.  
Principal is generally not forgiven. 
(2)
 Reduces the amount of loan principal to be amortized and increases the amount of the balloon payment at the end 
of the term of the loan.  This concession also reduces the minimum monthly payment.  Principal is generally not 
forgiven. 
(3)
 Extends the maturity date or dates of the debt beyond what the collateral supports.  This concession generally 
applies to loans without a balloon payment at the end of the term of the loan. 
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy:  A bankruptcy court™s discharge of a borrower™s debt is considered a concession when the borrower 
does not reaffirm the discharged debt. 
  Other:  A concession that is not categorized as one of the concessions described above.  These concessions include, but are 
not limited to:  principal forgiveness, collateral concessions, covenant concessions, and reduction of accrued interest. 
Principal forgiveness may result from any TDR modification of any concession type.  However, the aggregate amount of 
principal forgiven as a result of loans modified as TDRs during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, was not 
significant. 
 Following is a description of TDRs by the different loan types: 
 Commercial loan TDRs
 Œ Commercial accruing TDRs often result from loans receiving a concession with terms that are not 
considered a market transaction to Huntington.  The TDR remains in accruing status as long as the customer is less than 90-days
 past due on payments per the restructured loan terms and no loss is expected.   

 Commercial nonaccrual TDRs result from either: (1) an accruing commercial TDR being placed on nonaccrual status, or (2) a 
workout where an existing commercial NAL is restructured and a concession was given.  At times, these workouts restructure the 

NAL so that two or more new notes are created.  The primary note is underwritten based upon our normal underwriting standards 
and is sized so projected cash flows are sufficient to repay contractual principal and interest.  The terms on the secondary no
te(s) 
vary by situation, and may include notes that defer principal and interest payments until after the primary note is repaid.  Cr
eating two or more notes often allows the borrower to continue a project or weather a temporary economic downturn and allows 
Huntington to right-size a loan based upon the current expectations for a borrower™s or project™s performance.   
 Our strategy involving TDR borrowers includes working with these borrowers to allow them to refinance elsewhere, as well 
as allow them time to improve their financial position and remain our customer through refinancing their notes according to 

market terms and conditions in the future.  A subsequent refinancing or modification of a loan may occur when either the loan 
matures according to the terms of the TDR-modified agreement or the borrower requests a change to the loan agreements.  At that
 time, the loan is evaluated to determine if it is creditworthy.  It is subjected to the normal underwriting standards and proce
sses 
for other similar credit extensions, both new and existing.  The refinanced note is evaluated to determine if it is considered 
a new loan or a continuation of the prior loan.  A new loan is considered for removal of the TDR designation, whereas a continuation 
of 
the prior note requires a continuation of the TDR designation.  In order for a TDR designation to be removed, the borrower must
 no longer be experiencing financial difficulties and the terms of the refinanced loan must not represent a concession.  
 Residential Mortgage loan TDRs
 Œ Residential mortgage TDRs represent loan modifications associated with traditional first-lien 
mortgage loans in which a concession has been provided to the borrower.  The primary concessions given to residential mortgage 
borrowers are amortization or maturity date changes and interest rate reductions.  Residential mortgages identified as TDRs 
involve borrowers unable to refinance their mortgages through the Company™s normal mortgage origination channels or through 
other independent sources.  Some, but not 
all, of the loans may be delinquent.   
 Automobile, Home Equity, and Other Consumer loan TDRs
 Œ The Company may make similar interest rate, term, and 
principal concessions as with residential mortgage loan TDRs.   
 132 
 TDR Impact on Credit Quality 
 Huntington™s ALLL is largely determined by updated risk ratings assigned to commercial loans, updated borrower credit scores 
on consumer loans, and borrower delinquency history in both the commercial and consumer portfolios.  These updated risk ratings
 and credit scores consider the default history of the borrower, including payment redefaults.  As such, the provision for credit lo
sses is 
impacted primarily by changes in borrower payment performance rather than the TDR classification.  TDRs can be classified as ei
ther accrual or nonaccrual loans.  Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from NALs as it is 
probable that all contractual principal and interest due under the restructured terms will be collected.   
 Our TDRs may include multiple concessions and the disclosure classifications are presented based on the primary concession 
provided to the borrower.  The majority of our concessions for the C&I and CRE portfolios are the extension of the maturity dat
e coupled with an increase in the interest rate.  In these instances, the primary concession is the maturity date extension.  
 
TDR concessions may also result in the reduction of the ALLL within the C&I and CRE portfolios.  This reduction is derived 
from payments and the resulting application of the reserve calculation within the ALLL.  The transaction reserve for non-TDR C&
I and CRE loans is calculated based upon several estimated probability factors, such as PD and LGD, both of which were previously
 discussed.  Upon the occurrence of a TDR in our C&I and CRE portfolios, the reserve is measured based on discounted expected ca
sh 
flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling costs, of the modified loan in accordance with ASC 310-10.  The resulting T
DR ALLL calculation often results in a lower ALLL amount because (1) the discounted expected cash flows or collateral value, less 

anticipated selling costs, indicate a lower estimated loss, (2) if the modification includes a rate increase, the discounting o
f the cash 
flows on the modified loan, using the pre-modification interest rate, exceeds the carrying value of the loan, or (3) payments m
ay occur 
as part of the modification.  The ALLL for C&I and CRE loans may increase as a result of the modification, as the discounted ca
sh 
flow analysis may indicate additional reserves are required. 
 TDR concessions on consumer loans may increase the ALLL.  The concessions made to these borrowers often include interest 
rate reductions, and therefore, the TDR ALLL calculation results in a greater ALLL compared with the non-TDR calculation as the
 reserve is measured based on the estimation of the discounted expected cash flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling
 costs, on 
the modified loan in accordance with ASC 310-10.  The resulting TDR ALLL calculation often results in a higher ALLL amount 

because (1) the discounted expected cash flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling costs, indicate a higher estimated
 loss or, 
(2) due to the rate decrease, the discounting of the cash flows on the modified loan, using the pre-modification interest rate,
 indicates a 
reduction in the expected cash flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.  In certain instances, the ALLL may d
ecrease as 
a result of payments made in connection with the modification. 
 Commercial loan TDRs
 Œ  In instances where the bank substantiates that it will collect its outstanding balance in full, the note is 
considered for return to accrual status upon the borrower sustaining sufficient cash flows for a six-month period of time.  Thi
s six-
month period could extend before or after the restructure date.  If a charge-off was taken as part of the restructuring, any in
terest or principal payments received on that note are applied to first reduce the bank™s outstanding book balance and then to recoveries
 of 
charged-off principal, unpaid interest, and/or fee expenses while the TDR is in nonaccrual status. 
 
Residential Mortgage, Automobile, Home 
Equity, and Other Consumer loan TDRs
 Œ Modified loans identified as TDRs are 
aggregated into pools for analysis.  Cash flows and weighted average interest rates are used to calculate impairment at the poo
led-loan level.  Once the loans are aggregated into the pool, they continue to be classified as TDRs until contractually repaid or charg
ed-off.   
 Residential mortgage loans not guaranteed by a U.S. government agency such as the FHA, VA, and the USDA, including TDR 
loans, are reported as accrual or nonaccrual based upon delinquency status.  Nonaccrual TDRs are those that are greater than 15
0-days 
contractually past due.  Loans guaranteed by U.S. government organizations continue to accrue interest upon delinquency.   
    133 
The following table presents by class and by the reason for the modification the number of contracts, post-modification 
outstanding balance, and the financial effects of the modification for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013:  
   New Troubled Debt Restructurings During The Year Ended
(1)   December 31, 2014  December 31, 2013 
   Post-modification     
   Outstanding    Post-modification 
  Number of Ending Financial effects
 Number ofOutstanding Financial effects
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Contracts Balance of modification
(2) ContractsBalance of modification
(2)             
C&I - Owner occupied:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 19 $2,484$20 22$6,601 $(466)
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 97  32,145 336 64 15,662  (12)
 Other 7  2,051 (36) 16 7,367  337
Total C&I - Owner occupied 123 $36,680$320 102$29,630 $(141)
             
C&I - Other commercial and 
industrial:(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 25 $50,534$(1,982) 26$75,447 $(1,040)
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 285  149,339 (2,407) 120 53,340  1,295
 Other 21  7,613 (7) 35 18,290  (1,163)
Total C&I - Other commercial 
and industrial 331 $207,486$(4,396) 181$147,077 $(908)
             
CRE - Retail properties:(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 5 $11,381$420 4$1,116 $(8)
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 24  27,415 (267) 21 27,550  4,159
 Other 9  13,765 (35) 12 19,842  (558)
Total CRE - Retail properties 38 $52,561$118 37$48,508 $3,593
             
CRE - Multi family:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 20 $3,484$(75) 10$4,444 $7
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 40  9,791 197 16 2,345  415
 Other 8  5,016 57 5 8,085  (2)
Total CRE - Multi family 68 $18,291$179 31$14,874 $420
             
CRE - Office:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 2 $120$(1) 7$6,504 $1,656
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 22  18,157 (424) 16 12,388  91
 Other 5  35,476 (3,153) 6 7,044  655
Total CRE - Office 29 $53,753$(3,578) 29$25,936 $2,402
             
CRE - Industrial and 
warehouse:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 2 $4,046$--- 1$2,682 $(476)
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 17  9,187 164 9 4,069  (185)
 Other 1  977 --- 1 5,867  ---
Total CRE - Industrial and 
Warehouse 20 $14,210$164 11$12,618 $(661)
 134 
             
CRE - Other commercial real 
estate:(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 8 $5,224$146 19$10,996 $96
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 55  76,353 (2,789) 21 17,851  4,923
 Other 4  1,809 (127) 13 9,735  (101)
Total CRE - Other commercial 
67 $83,386$(2,770) 53$38,582 $4,918
             
Automobile:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 92 $758$15 14$106 $---
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 1,880  12,120 151 1,659 9,420  (76)
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 625  4,938 66 1,313 7,748  301
 Other ---  --- --- --- ---  ---
Total Automobile 2,597 $17,816$232 2,986$17,274 $225
             
Residential mortgage:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 27 $3,692$19 65$11,662 $3
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 333  44,027 552 442 58,344  384
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 182  18,635 715 458 39,813  1,345
 Other 5  526 5 17 1,837  39
Total Residential mortgage 547 $66,880$1,291 982$111,656 $1,771
             
First-lien home equity:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 193 $15,172$764 134$12,244 $1,149
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 289  23,272 (1,051) 279 19,280  (1,084)
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 105  
7,296 727 257 14,987  748
 Other ---  --- --- --- ---  ---
Total First-lien home equity 587 $45,740$440 670$46,511 $813
             
Junior-lien home equity:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 187 $6,960$296 25$1,179 $190
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 1,467  58,129 (6,955) 1,491 55,389  (5,431)
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 201  3,014 3,141 1,564 15,303  33,623
 Other ---  --- --- --- ---  ---
Total Junior-lien home equity 1,855 $68,103$(3,518) 3,080$71,871 $28,382
             
Other consumer:
(3)            
 Interest rate reduction 7 $123$3 5$306 $48
 Amortization or maturity date 
change 48  1,803 12 11 117  5
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 25  483 (50) 36 565  29
 Other ---  --- --- --- ---  ---
Total Other consumer 80 $2,409$(35) 52$988 $82
Total new troubled debt 
restructurings 6,342 $667,315$(11,553) 8,214$565,525 $40,896
             
   135 
(1) TDRs may include multiple concessions and the disclosure classifications are based on the primary concession provided to th
e borrower. (2) Amounts represent the financial impact via provision (recovery) for loan and lease losses as a result of the modification. 
(3) Post-modification balances approximate pre-modification balances.  The aggregate amount of charge-offs as a result of a 
restructuring are not significant. 
 Any loan within any portfolio or class is considered as payment redefaulted at 90-days past due.   
 The following table presents TDRs that have redefaulted within one year of modification during the years ended 
December 31, 2014 and 2013:  
   Troubled Debt Restructurings That Have Redefaulted 

  Within One Year of Modification During The Year Ended 

  December 31, 2014
(1) December 31, 2013
(1) (dollar amounts in thousands) 
Number of Ending Number of Ending 
 Contracts Balance Contracts Balance 
        
C&I - Owner occupied:       
 Interest rate reduction ---$--- ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 6 946 10 1,144
 Other 1 230 7 1,221
Total C&I - Owner occupied 7$1,176 17$2,365
        

C&I - Other commercial and industrial:       
 Interest rate reduction 1$30 ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 14 1,555 17 476
 Other 3 37 --- ---
Total C&I - Other commercial and industrial 18$1,622 17$476
        
CRE - Retail Properties:       
 Interest rate reduction ---$--- 1$302
 Amortization or maturity date change 1 483 4 993
 Other --- --- 1 186
Total CRE - Retail properties 1$483 6$1,481
        

CRE - Multi family:       
 Interest rate reduction ---$--- ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 4 2,827 2 225
 Other 1 176 --- ---
Total CRE - Multi family 5$3,003 2$225
        

CRE - Office:       
 Interest rate reduction ---$--- ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 3 1,738 2 1,131
 Other --- --- --- ---
Total CRE - Office 3$1,738 2$1,131
        

CRE - Industrial and Warehouse:       
 Interest rate reduction 1$1,339 ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 1 756 1 361
 Other --- --- 1 726
Total CRE - Industrial and Warehouse 2$2,095 2$1,087
        
   136 
CRE - Other commercial real estate:       
 Interest rate reduction 1$169 ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 2 758 4 774
 Other --- --- 1 5
Total CRE - Other commercial real estate 3$927 5$779
        

Automobile:       
 Interest rate reduction ---$--- 1$112
 Amortization or maturity date change 40 328 37 380
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 53 374 137 617
 Other --- --- --- ---
Total Automobile 93$702 175$1,109
        
Residential mortgage:       
 Interest rate reduction 11$1,516 4$424
 Amortization or maturity date change 82 8,974 78 11,263
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 37 3,187 71 6,647
 Other --- --- 2 418
Total Residential mortgage 130$13,677 155$18,752
        

First-lien home equity:       
 Interest rate reduction 5$335 1$87
 Amortization or maturity date change 16 2,109 6 629
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 16 1,005 16 1,235
 Other --- --- --- ---
Total First-lien home equity 37$3,449 23$1,951
        
Junior-lien home equity:       
 Interest rate reduction 1$11 1$---
 Amortization or maturity date change 31 1,841 9 478
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy 39 620 40 718
 Other --- --- --- ---
Total Junior-lien home equity 71$2,472 50$1,196
        
Other consumer:       
 Interest rate reduction ---$--- ---$---
 Amortization or maturity date change --- --- --- ---
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy --- --- 3 96
 Other --- --- --- ---
Total Other consumer ---$--- 3$96
      
Total troubled debt restructurings with 
subsequent redefault 370$31,344 457$30,648
        
(1) Subsequent redefault is defined as a payment redefault within 12 months of the restructuring date.  Payment redefault is de
fined as 
90-days past due for any loan in any portfolio or class.  Any loan in any portfolio may be considered to be in payment redefaul
t prior to the guidelines noted above when collection of principal or interest is in doubt. 
 Pledged Loans and Leases 
The Bank has access to the Federal Reserve™s discount window and advances from the FHLB Œ Cincinnati.  At December 31, 
2014, these borrowings and advances ar
e secured by $18.0 
billion of loans. 
    137 
4.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES
  Contractual maturities of available-for-sale and other securities as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 were: 
    2014   2013 

   Amortized Fair    Amortized Fair  
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
Cost Value   Cost Value 
Under 1 year $355,486 $355,465  $ 263,366 $262,752
1 - 5 years  1,047,492  1,066,041   1,665,644  1,697,234
6 - 10 years  1,517,974  1,527,195   1,440,056  1,433,303
Over 10 years  6,090,688  6,086,980   3,662,328  3,577,502

Other securities:            
 Nonmarketable equity securities  331,559  331,559   320,991 320,991
 Marketable equity securities  16,687  17,430   16,522  16,971
Total available-for-sale and other securities $9,359,886 $9,384,670  $ 7,368,907 $7,308,753
 Other securities at December 31, 2014 and 2013 include nonmarketable equity securities of $157.0 million and $165.6 million of 
stock issued by the FHLB of Cincinnati,  and $174.5 million and $155.4 million of Federal Reserve Bank stock, respectively. 
Nonmarketable equity securities are recorded at amortized cost. Other securities also include marketable equity securities. 
 The following tables provide amortized cost, fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses recognized in OCI by investment 
category at December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
     Unrealized  
   Amortized Gross   Gross Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Cost Gains   Losses Value 
December 31, 2014               
U.S. Treasury $5,435 $17  $ --- $5,452

Federal agencies:            
 Mortgage-backed secur
ities  5,273,899  63,906 
  (15,104)  5,322,701
 Other agencies  349,715  2,871   (1,043)  351,543
Total U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities  5,629,049  66,794   (16,147)  5,679,696
Municipal securities  1,841,311  37,398   (10,140)  1,868,569
Private-label CMO  43,730  1,116   (2,920)  41,926
Asset-backed securities   1,014,999  2,061   (61,062)  955,998
Corporate debt securities  479,151  9,442   (2,417)  486,176
Other securities  351,646  743   (84)  352,305
Total available-for-sale and other securities $9,359,886 $117,554  $ (92,770) $9,384,670
     Unrealized  
   Amortized Gross   Gross Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Cost Gains   Losses Value 
December 31, 2013               
U.S. Treasury $51,301 $303  $ --- $51,604

Federal agencies:            
 Mortgage-backed secu
rities 3,562,444  42,319 
  (38,542)  3,566,221
 Other agencies 313,877  6,105   (94)  319,888
Total U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities  3,927,622  48,727   (38,636)  3,937,713
Municipal securities (1)  1,140,263  18,825   (13,096)  1,145,992
Private-label CMO  51,238  1,188   (3,322)  49,104
Asset-backed securities  1,172,284  6,771   (88,015)  1,091,040
Covered bonds  280,595  5,279   ---  285,874
Corporate debt securities  455,493  11,241   (9,494)  457,240
Other securities  341,412  511   (133)  341,790
Total available-for-sale and other securities $7,368,907 $92,542  $ (152,696) $7,308,753
   138 
(1) Effective December 31, 2013 approximately $600.4 million of direct purchase municipal instruments were reclassified from C&
I loans to available-for-sale securities.  The following tables provide detail on investment securities with unrealized losses aggregated by investment category and the 
length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous loss position at December 31, 2014 and 2013:  

    Less than 12 Months Over 12 Months   Total 
   Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized    Fair Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands ) 
 Value Losses Value Losses   Value Losses 
December 31, 2014                     
Federal Agencies:                  

 Mortgage-backed securities $ 501,858 $(1,909) $527,280 $(13,195) $ 1,029,138 $(15,104)
 Other agencies  159,708  (1,020)  1,281  (23)  160,989  (1,043)
Total Federal agency securities  661,566  (2,929)  528,561  (13,218)  1,190,127  (16,147)
Municipal securities  568,619  (9,127)  96,426  (1,013)  665,045  (10,140)
Private label CMO  ---  ---  22,650  (2,920)  22,650  (2,920)
Asset-backed securities  157,613  (641)  325,691  (60,421)  483,304  (61,062)
Corporate debt securities  49,562  (252)  88,398  (2,165)  137,960  (2,417)
Other securities  ---  ---  1,416  (84)  1,416  (84)
Total temporarily impaired securities $ 1,437,360 
$(12,949) $1,063,14
2 $(79,821) $ 2,500,502 $(92,770)
    Less than 12 Months Over 12 Months   Total 
   Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized    Fair Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands ) 
 Value Losses Value Losses   Value Losses 
December 31, 2013                     
Federal Agencies                  

 Mortgage-backed securities $ 1,628,454 $(37,174) $12,682 $(1,368) $ 1,641,136 $(38,542)
 Other agencies  2,069  (94)  ---  ---   2,069  (94)
Total Federal agency securities  1,630,523  (37,268)  12,682  (1,368)  1,643,205  (38,636)
Municipal securities  551,114  (12,395)  7,531  (701)  558,645  (13,096)
Private label CMO  ---  ---  22,639  (3,322)  22,639  (3,322)
Asset-backed securities  391,665  (9,720)  107,419  (78,295)  499,084  (88,015)
Corporate debt securities  146,308  (7,729)  26,155  (1,765)  172,463  (9,494)
Other securities  3,078  (72)  2,530  (61)  5,608  (133)
Total temporarily impaired securities $ 2,722,688 
$(67,184) $178,956 
$(85,512) $ 2,901,
644 $(152,696)
 At December 31, 2014, the carrying value of investment securities pledged to secure public and trust deposits, trading account 
liabilities, U.S. Treasury demand notes, and security repurchase agreements totaled $3.6 billion. There were no securities of a
 single 
issuer, which are not governmental or government-sponsored, that exceeded 10% of shareholders™ equity at December 31, 2014.  
 The following table is a summary of realized securities gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012:
  (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014   2013 2012 
 Gross gains on sales of securities 
$17,729  
$ 2,932 
$8,612
 Gross (losses) on sales of securities 
 (175) 
 (712)  (2,224)
Net gain (loss) on sales of securities 
$17,554  
$ 2,220 
$6,388
 
Collateralized Debt Obligations and Private-Label CMO Securities 
 
Our highest risk segments of our investment portfolio are th
e CDO and 2003-2006 vintage private-label CMO portfolios.  Of the 
$41.9 million private-label CMO securities reported at fair value at December 31, 2014, approximately $20.3 million are rated b
elow investment grade.  The CDOs are in the asset-backed securities portfolio.  These segments are in run-off, and we have not purch
ased 
these types of securities since 2008.  The performance of the underlying securities in each of these segments reflects the dete
rioration 
of CDO issuers and 2003 to 2006 non-agency mortgages.  Each of these securities in these two segments is subjected to a rigorou
s review of its projected cash flows.  These reviews are 
supported with analysis from 
independent third parties. 
    139 
The following table presents the credit ratings for our CDO and private label CMO securities as of December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
 Credit Ratings of Selected Investment Securities 
      (dollar amounts in thousands) 
  Average Credit Rating of Fair Value Amount (1) 
  Amortized
              Cost  Fair Value
  AAA 
 AA +/-  A +/-  BBB +/- <BBB-  Private-label CMO securities 
$43,730
$41,926
$11,461$---$--- $10,161$20,304
 Collateralized debt obligations 
139,19482,738--------- ---82,738
Total at December 31, 2014 
$182,924
$124,664
$11,461$---$--- $10,161$103,042
Total at December 31, 2013 
$212,968
$133,240
$16,964$---$17,855 $11,785$86,636
(1)  Credit ratings reflect the lowest current rating assigned by a nationally recognized credit rating agency. 
 Beginning January 1, 2015, the credit ratings of our private label CMO and CDO securities will no longer be used to determine 
risk weighting for regulatory capital  purposes. Private label CMO and CDO securities will be subject to the Simplified Supervi
sory Formula Approach (SSFA) for risk
 weighting under BASEL III.   
 The fair values of the private label CMO and CDO assets have been impacted by various market conditions.  The unrealized 
losses were primarily the result of wider liquidity spreads on asset-backed securities and increased market volatility on non-a
gency 
mortgage and asset-backed securities that are collateralized by certain mortgage loans.  In addition, the expected average live
s of the 
asset-backed securities backed by trust-pr
eferred securities have been 
extended, due to changes in 
the expectations of when the
 underlying securities would be repaid.  The contractual terms and / or cash flows of the investments do not permit the issuer t
o settle the securities at a price less than the amortized cost. Huntington does not intend to sell, nor does it believe it will be requ
ired to sell 
these securities until the fair value is recovered, which may be maturity, and therefore, does not consider them to be other-th
an-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2014. 
 The following table summarizes the relevant characteristics of our CDO securities portfolio, which are included in asset-backed
 securities, at December 31, 2014 and 2013.  Each security is part of a pool of issuers and supports a more senior tranche of se
curities except for the MM Comm III securities which are the most senior class.  
 Collateralized Debt Obligation Securities Data 
          (dollar amounts in thousands) 
    Actual                Deferrals 
 Expected 
             and  Defaults 
            # of Issuers Defaults 
 as a % of 
           Lowest Currently as a % of 
 Remaining
      Amortized 
Fair Unrealized
Credit Performing/ Original 
 PerformingExcess  Deal Name 
Par Value Cost Value Loss (2) Rating (3)
Remaining (4)Collateral  Collateral 
Subordination (5) 
Alesco II (1) 
$ 41,646 
$ 28,834 
$ 16,758$(12,076)C  
30/33 8 %7%---
%ICONS 
 19,837 
 19,837 
 15,786
 (4,051)BB 
19/21 7  15
 57
 MM Comm III  5,584 
 5,335 
 4,418
 (917)BB 
5/9 5  9 31
 Pre TSL IX  
 5,000 
 3,955 
 2,403
 (1,552)C 
28/40 19  9 4 Pre TSL XI (1) 
 25,000 
 20,632 
 12,248
 (8,384)C 
43/56 16  9 8 Pre TSL XIII (1) 
 27,530 
 20,252 
 13,302
 (6,950)C 
44/58 16  16
 13
 Reg Diversified (1) 
 25,500 
 6,908 
 1,142
 (5,766)D 
23/41 38  9 ---
 Soloso (1)  12,500 
 2,440 
 368
 (2,072)C 
38/61 29  18
 ---
 Tropic III 
 31,000 
 31,001 
 16,313
 (14,688)CCC+ 
28/40 21  8 37
 Total at December 31, 2014 
$ 193,597 
$ 139,194 
$ 82,738$(56,456)
        Total at December 31, 2013 
$ 214,419 
$ 161,730 
$ 84,136$(77,594)
        (1)  Security was determined to have OTTI.  As such, the book value is net of recorded credit impairment. 
(2)  The majority of securities have been in a continuous loss position for 12 months or longer. 
(3)  For purposes of comparability, the lowest credit rating expressed is equivalent to Fitch ratings even where the lowest rating i
s based on another 
nationally recognized credit rating agency. 
(4)  Includes both banks and/or insurance companies. 
(5)  Excess subordination percentage represents the additional defaults in excess of both current and projected defaults that the CD
O can absorb before the bond experiences credit impairment.  Excess subordinated percentage is calculated by (a) determining what percentage
 of defaults a 
deal can experience before the bond has credit impairment, and (b) subtracting from this default breakage percentage both total
 current and 
expected future default percentages. 
  140 
Security Impairment 
 Huntington evaluated OTTI on the debt security types listed below.   
 Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label CMO securities are collateralized by first-lien residential mortgage loans.  The 
securities valuation methodology incorporates values obtained from a third party pricing specialist using a discounted cash flo
w approach and a proprietary pricing model and includes assumptions management believes market participants would use to value th
e securities under current market conditions.  The model uses inputs such as estimated prepayment speeds, losses, recoveries, def
ault 
rates that are implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the structure or similar structures, house price deprecia
tion / 
appreciation rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates that are implied by market prices for similar
 securities with similar collateral structures. The remaining Alt-A mortgage backed securities were sold during the third quarte
r 2014. 
 Collateralized Debt Obligations are CDOs backed by a pool of debt securities issued by financial institutions.  The collateral 
generally consists of trust-preferred securities and subordinated debt securities issued by banks, bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies.  A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within 
this 
portfolio.  A third-party pricing specialist with direct industry experience in pooled-trust-preferred security evaluations is 
engaged to 
provide assistance estimating the fair value and expected cash flows on this portfolio. The full cash flow analysis is complete
d by 
evaluating the relevant credit and structural aspects of each pooled-trust-preferred security in the portfolio, including colla
teral performance projections for each piece of collateral in the security and terms of the security™s structure. The credit review i
ncludes an 
analysis of profitability, credit quality, operating efficiency, leverage, and liquidity using available financial and regulato
ry 
information for each underlying collateral issuer. The analysis also includes a review of historical industry default data, cur
rent/near term operating conditions, and the impact of macroeconomic and regulatory changes.  Using the results of our analysis, we estim
ate appropriate default and recovery probabilities for each piece of collateral then estimate the expected cash flows for each secu
rity. The cumulative probability of default ranges from a low of 2% to 100%.   
 Many collateral issuers have the option of deferring interest payments on their debt for up to five years.  For issuers who are
 deferring interest, assumptions are made regarding the issuers ability to resume interest payments and make the required princi
pal 
payment at maturity; the cumulative probability of default for these issuers currently ranges from 30% to 100%, and a 10% recov
ery 
assumption.  The fair value of each security is obtained by discounting the expected cash flows at a market discount rate, rang
ing from 
LIBOR plus 4.3% to LIBOR plus 13.3% as of December 31, 2014.  The market discount rate is determined by reference to yields 
observed in the market for similarly rated collateralized debt obligations, specifically high-yield collateralized loan obligat
ions.  The 
relatively high market discount rate is reflective of the uncertainty of the cash flows and illiquid nature of these securities
.  The large 
differential between the fair value and amortized cost of some of the securities reflects the high market discount rate and the
 expectation that the majority of the cash flows will not be received until near the final maturity of the security (the final m
aturities range from 2032 to 2035). 
 On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the 
Volcker Rule contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, generally to become effective on July 21, 2015.  The Volcker Rule 
prohibits an insured depository institution and its affiliates (referred to as ﬁbanking entitiesﬂ) from: (i) engaging in ﬁpropr
ietary tradingﬂ and (ii) investing in or sponsoring certain types of fu
nds (ﬁcovered fundsﬂ) subject to 
certain limited exceptions.  T
hese prohibitions impact the ability of U.S. banking entities to provide investment management products and services that are compet
itive with nonbanking firms generally and with non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The rule also effectively prohibit
s short-term trading strategies by any U.S. banking entity if those strategies involve instruments other than those specifically 
permitted 
for trading. 
 On January 14, 2014, the five federal agencies approved an interim final rule to permit banking entities to retain interests in
 certain collateralized debt obligations backed primarily by trust preferred securities from the investment prohibitions of sect
ion 619 of 
the Volcker Rule.  Under the interim final rule, the agencies permit the retention of an interest in or sponsorship of covered 
funds by banking entities if certain qualifications are met.  In addition, the agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that me
et the requirements of the interim final rule.  At December 31, 2014, we had investments in nine different pools of trust preferred 
securities.  Eight of our pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers.  We have analyzed the ICONS pool that was no
t included on the list and believe that it is more likely than not that we will be able to hold the ICONS security to recovery un
der the 
final Volcker Rule regulations. 
    141 
For the periods ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the following table summarizes by security type, the total OTTI losses 
recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income for securities evaluated for impairment as described above: 
      Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013 2012
Available-for-sale and other securities:        
 Collateralized Debt Obligations 
---  
 (1,466)---
  Private label CMO 
---  
 (336)(1,614)
  Total debt securities  
---  
 (1,802) (1,614)  Equity securities 
---  
 ---(5)
 Total available-for-sale and other securities $---  $ (1,802)$(1,619)
 The following table rolls forward the OTTI recognized in earnings on debt securities held by Huntington for the years ended 
December 31, 2014 and 2013 as follows: 

   Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 
Balance, beginning of year $ 
30,869 
$49,433 Reductions from sales  
--- 
 (20,366)
 Credit losses not previously recognized  
--- 
 ---
 Additional credit losses  
--- 
 1,802
Balance, end of year $ 
30,869 
$30,869       
As of December 31, 2014, Management has evaluated other available-for-sale and other  securities, including those with 
unrealized losses and all nonmarketable equity securities for impairment and concluded no OTTI is required.   

 5.  HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES
  These are debt securities that Huntington has the intent and ability to hold until maturity. The debt securities are carried at
 amortized cost and adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the interest method.  
 During 2013, Huntington transferred $292.2 million of federal agencies, mortgage-backed securities and other agency securities 
from the available-for-sale securities portfolio to the held-to-maturity securities portfolio. At the time of the transfer, no 
unrealized net gains were recognized in OCI. 
    142 
Listed below are the contractual maturities (under 1 year, 1-5 years, 6-10 years, and over 10 years) of held-to-maturity securi
ties at December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
       December 31, 2014 
  December 31, 2013 
   Amortized 
Fair   Amortized 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Cos
t Value   Cos
t Fair Value Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities: 
       Under 1 
year $---
$--- 
 $ ---
$---
  1-5 
years ---
--- 
  ---
---
  6-10 
years 
24,90124,263 
  24,901
22,549  Over 10 
years 
3,136,460
3,140,194 
  3,574,156
3,506,018
Total Federal agencies: mort
gage-backed securities 3
,161
,361
3,164
,457 
  3,599
,057
3,528
,567
Other a
gencies: 
    Under 1 
year ---
--- 
  ---
---
  1-5 
years ---
--- 
  ---
---
  6-10 
years 
54,01054,843 
  38,588
39,075  Over 10 
years 
156,553
155,821 
  189,999
185,097
Total other a
gencies 
210
,563
210
,664 
  228
,587
224
,172
Total U.S. Government backed a
gencies 
3,371
,924
3,375
,121 
  3,827
,644
3,752
,739
Municipal securities:    Under 1 
year ---
--- 
  ---
---
 1-5 
years ---
--- 
  ---
---
 6-10 
years ---
--- 
  ---
---
 Over 10 
years 
7,981
7,594 
  9,023
8,159
Total munici
pal securities 7,981
7,594 
  9,023
8,159
Total held-to-maturit
y securities 
$3,379
,905
$3,382
,715 
 $3,836
,667
$3,760
,898
 The following table provides amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value by investment category at 
December 31, 2014 and 2013: 

     Unrealized  

   Amortized Gross   Gross Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Cost Gains   Losses Value 
December 31, 2014               
Federal Agencies:            
 Mortgage-backed securities $3,161,361 $24,832  $ (21,736) $3,164,457

 Other agencies  210,563  1,251   (1,150)  210,664
Total U.S. Government            
 backed securities  3,371,924  26,083   (22,886)  3,375,121
Municipal securities  7,981  ---   (387)  7,594

Total held-to-maturity securities $3,3
79,905 $26,083  $ (23
,273) $3,382,715
     
    Unrealized  
   Amortized Gross   Gross Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Cost Gains   Losses Value 
December 31, 2013               
Federal Agencies:            
 Mortgage-backed securities $3,599,057 $5,573  $ (76,063) $3,528,567

 Other agencies  228,587  776   (5,191)  224,172
Total U.S. Government            
 backed securities  3,827,644  6,349   (81,254)  3,752,739
Municipal securities  9,023  ---   (864)  8,159

Total held-to-maturity securities $3,8
36,667 $6,349  $ (82
,118) $3,760,898
    143 
The following tables provide detail on HTM securities with unrealized losses aggregated by investment category and the length o
f time the individual securities have been in a continuous loss position at December 31, 2014 and 2013:  
    Less than 12 Months Over 12 Months   Total 
   Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized    Fair Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands ) 
 Value Losses Value Losses   Value Losses 
December 31, 2014                     
Federal Agencies:                  

  Mortgage-backed securities $ 707,934 $(5,550) $622,026 $(16,186) $ 1,329,960 $(21,736)
 Other agencies  36,956  (198) 
 71,731  (952)  108,687  (1,150)
Total U.S. Government backed securities  744,89
0  (5,748)  693,757  (17,13
8)  1,438,647  (22,886)
Municipal securities  7,594  (387)  ---  ---   7,594  (387)
Total temporarily impaired securities $ 752,484 $(6,135) $693,757 $(17,138) $ 1,446,241 $(23,273)
   Less than 12 Months 
Over 12 Months   Total 
   Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized    Fair Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands ) 
 Value Losses Value Losses   Value Losses 
December 31, 2013                     
Federal Agencies:                  

 Mortgage-backed securities $ 2,849,198 $(73,711) $22,548 $(2,352) $ 2,871,746 $(76,063)
 Other agencies  144,417  (5,191)  ---  ---   144,417  (5,191)
Total U.S. Government backed securities  2,993,
615  (78,902)  22,548  (2,352
)  3,016,163  (81,254)
Municipal securities  8,159  (864)  ---  ---   8,159  (864)
Total temporarily impaired securities $ 3,001,774 $(79,766) $22,548 $(2,352) $ 3,024,322 $(82,118)
 Security Impairment 
 Huntington evaluates the held-to-maturity securities portfolio on a quarterly basis for impairment.  Impairment would exist whe
n the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis at the balance sheet 
date.  Under 
these circumstances, any impairment would be recognized in earnings. As of December 31, 2014, Management has evaluated held-to-
maturity securities with unrealized losses for imp
airment and concluded no OTTI is required. 
 6.  LOAN SALES AND SECURITIZATIONS 
  Residential Mortgage Portfolio 
 The following table summarizes activity relating to residential mortgage loans sold with servicing retained for the years ended
 December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
    Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
2014 
 2013 
  2012 
Residential mortgage loans sold with servicing retained $2,330,060 $3,221,239  $ 3,954,762
Pretax gains resulting from above loan sales  (1)  57,590  102,935   128,408
(1) Recorded in mortgage banking income. 
 The following tables summarize the changes in MSRs recorded using either the fair value method or the amortization method for 
the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
   144 
 Fair Value Method 
     
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 
 2013 
Fair value, beginning of year $ 34,236 $35,202
Change in fair value during the period due to:   
 Time decay (1) 
 (2,232) (2,648)
 Payoffs (2) 
 (5,814) (11,851)
 Changes in valuation inputs or assumptions (3)  (3,404) 13,533
Fair value, end of year $ 22,786 $34,236
Weighted-average life (years)  4.6  4.2
(1) Represents decrease in value due to passage of time, including the impact from both regularly scheduled loan principal paym
ents and partial loan paydowns. 
(2) Represents decrease in value associated with loans that paid off during the period. 
(3) Represents change in value resulting primarily from market-driven changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds. 
       
Amortization Method      
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 
 2013 
Carrying value, beginning of year $ 128,064 $85,545
New servicing assets create
d  24,629 34,743
Servicing assets acquired   3,505 ---
Impairment recovery (charge)  (7,330) 22,023
Amortization and other  (16,056) (14,247)
Carrying value, end of year $ 132,812 $128,064
Fair value, end of year $ 133,049 $143,304
Weighted-average life (years)  5.9  6.8
 MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices.  While sales of MSRs occur, the precise terms and 
conditions are typically not readily available.  Therefore, the fair value of MSRs is estimated using a discounted future cash 
flow model.  The model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees and assumptions related to prepay
ments, 
delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenues, costs to service, and other economic factors.  Changes in the assump
tions used may have a significant impact on the valuation of MSRs. 
 
MSR values are very sensitive to movements in interest rates as expected future net servicing income depends on the projected 
outstanding principal balances of the underlying loans, which can be greatly impacted by the level of prepayments.  Huntington 
hedges the value of certain MSRs against changes in value attributable to changes in interest rates using a combination of deri
vative instruments and trading securities.   
 For MSRs under the fair value method, a summary of key assumptions and the sensitivity of the MSR value to changes in these 
assumptions at December 31, 2014, and 2013 follows: 
     December 31, 2014  December 31, 2013 
   Decline in fair value due    Decline in fair value due 
      10%   20%      10%   20% 
   adverseadverse   adverseadverse
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Actual  change   change  Actual   change   change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
  15.60%  $(1,176) $(2,248) 11.90 %  $ (1,935) $(3,816)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates  
546bps  (699)  (1,355) 1,069 bps   (1,376)  (2,753)
    145 
For MSRs under the amortization method, a summary of key assumptions
 and the sensitivity of the 
MSR value to changes in these assumptions at December 31, 2014 and 2013 follows:   
   December 31, 2014  December 31, 2013 
   Decline in fair value due    Decline in fair value due 
      10%   20%      10%   20% 
   adverseadverse   adverseadverse
(dollar amounts in thousands)  Actual  change   change  Actual   change   change 
Constant prepayment rate (annualized)  11.40%  
$(5,289) $(10,164) 6.70 %  $ (6,813) $(12,977)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates  85
6bps  (4,343)  (8,403) 940 bps   (6,027)  (12,054)
 Total servicing, late and other ancillary fees included in mortgage banking income was $44.3 million, $43.8 million, and $46.2 
million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, 
respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of residential mo
rtgage loans serviced for third p
arties was $15.6 billion, $15.2 billion, an
d $15.6 billion at December 31, 201
4, 2013, and 2012
, respectively.  
 Automobile Loans and Leases 
The following table summarizes activity relating to automobile loans sold and/or securitized with servicing retained for the ye
ars ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
    Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
2014 (1) 
 2013 (1) 
  2012 
Automobile loans sold with servicing retained $--- $---  $ 169,324
Automobile loans securitized with servicing retained  ---  ---   2,300,018
Pretax gains (2)  ---  ---   42,251
(1) Huntington did not sell or securitize 
any automobile loan
s in 2014 or 2013. 
(2) Recorded in non
interest income 
 Huntington has retained servicing responsibilities on sold automobile loans and receives annual servicing fees and other ancill
ary fees on the outstanding loan balances.  Automobile loan servicing rights are accounted for using the amortization method.  A se
rvicing 
asset is established at fair value at the time of the sale using a discounted future cash flow model.  The model considers assu
mptions 
related to actual servicing income, adequate compensation for servicing, and other ancillary fees. The servicing asset is then 
amortized 
against servicing income.  Impairment, if any, is recognized when carrying value exceeds the fair value as determined by calcul
ating the present value of expected net future cash flows.  The primary risk characteristic for measuring servicing assets is payoff 
rates of the underlying loan pools.  Valuation calculations rely on the predicted payoff assumption and, if actual payoff is quicker tha
n expected, then future value would be impaired.  
  Changes in the carrying value of automobile loan servicing rights for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the fair 
value at the end of each period were as follows: 
        
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  
 2013 
Carrying value, beginning of year $ 17,672 $35,606
New servicing assets create
d  --- ---
Amortization and other  (10,774) (17,934)
Carrying value, end of year $ 6,898 $17,672
Fair value, end of year $ 6,948 $18,193

Weighted-average life (years)  2.6  3.6
    146 
A summary of key assumptions and the sensitivity of the automobile loan servicing rights value to changes in these assumptions 
at December 31, 2014 and 2013 follows: 
   December 31, 2014  December 31, 2013 
   Decline in fair value due    Decline in fair value due 
      10%   20%      10%   20% 
   adverseadverse   adverseadverse
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Actual   change   change  Actual   change   change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
  14.62%  $(305) $(496) 14.65 %  $ (584) $(1,183)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates  500bps  (2)  (4) 500 bps   (7)  (15)
 Servicing income, net of amortization of capitalized servicing assets was $7.7 million, $10.3 million, and $8.7 million for the
 years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of automobile loans serviced for thi
rd 
parties was $0.8 billion, $1.6 billion, and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. 
 Small Business Association (SBA) Portfolio 
 The following table summarizes activity relating to SBA loans sold with servicing retained for the years ended December 31, 
2014, 2013, and 2012: 
    Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 
 2013 
  2012 
SBA loans sold with servicing retained $214,760 $178,874  $ 209,540
Pretax gains resulting from above loan sales  (1)  24,579  19,556   22,916
(1) Recorded in non
interest income 
 Huntington has retained servicing responsibilities on sold SBA loans and receives annual servicing fees on the outstanding loan
 balances.  SBA loan servicing rights are accounted for using the amortization method.  A servicing asset is established at fair
 value at 
the time of the sale using a discounted future cash flow model. The servicing asset is then amortized against servicing income.
  Impairment, if any, is recognized when carrying value exceeds the fair value as determined by calculating the present value of 

expected net future cash flows. 
 The following tables summarize the changes in the carrying value of the servicing asset for the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2013: 
        
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  
 2013 
Carrying value, beginning of year $ 16,865 $15,147
New servicing assets create
d  7,269 6,105
Amortization and other  (5,598) (4,387)
Carrying value, end of year $ 18,536 $16,865
Fair value, end of year $ 20,495$16,865
Weighted-average life (years)  3.5  3.5
 A summary of key assumptions and the sens
itivity of the SBA loan serv
icing rights value to changes in these assumptions at 
December 31, 2014 and 2013 follows: 

   December 31, 2014  December 31, 2013 
   Decline in fair value due    Decline in fair value due 
      10%   20%      10%   20% 
   adverseadverse   adverseadverse
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Actual   change   change  Actual   change   change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
  5.60%  $(211) $(419) 5.90 %  $ (221) $(438)
Discount rate  1,500bps  (563)  (1,102) 1,500 bps   (446)  (873)
 Servicing income, net of amortization of capitalized servicing assets was $7.4 million, $6.3 million, and $5.7 million in 2014,
 2013, and 2012, respectivel
y.  The unpaid principal balance of 
SBA loans serviced for th
ird parties was $898.0 million, $885.4 
million 
and $758.3 million at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
 147 
 7.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  
 Business segments are based on segment leadership structure, which reflects how segment performance is monitored and 
assessed.  During the 2014 first quarter, we realigned our business segments to drive our ongoing growth and leverage the knowl
edge 
of our highly experienced team.  We now have five major business segments: Retail and Business Banking, Commercial Banking, 

Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate (AFCRE), Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group (RBHPCG), 
and Home Lending.  A Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, reven
ue, and 
expense.  All periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the current period classification. Amounts relating to the
 realignment are disclosed in the table below.   
 A rollforward of goodwill by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, is presented in the table below: 
    Retail &         

  Business  Commercial   Home  Treasury/Huntington 

(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Banking Banking AFCRERBHPCGLending  Other Consolidated
Balance, January 1, 2013 $ 286,824$22,108$---$93,012$--- $ 42,324$444,268
 Adjustments / Reallocation  --- --- --- --- ---  --- ---
Balance, December 31, 2013  286,824 22,108 --- 93,012 ---  42,324 444,268
 Goodwill acquired during the period  81,273 --- --- --- ---  --- 81,273
 Adjustments / Reallocation  --- 37,486 --- (3,000) 3,000  (37,486) ---

 Impairment  --- --
- --- --- (3,000) --- (3,000)
Balance, December 31, 2014 $ 368,097$59,594$---$90,012$--- $ 4,838$522,541
  
In 2014, Huntington completed an acquisition of 24 Bank of America branches in Michigan and recorded $17.1 million of 
goodwill.  The remaining $64.2 million of goodwill acquired during 2014 was the result of the Camco Financial acquisition, whic
h was also completed in 2014.  For additional information on the acquisitions, see Business Combinations footnote. 
 Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1st each year or whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.   As a result of the 2014 first quarter reorg
anization in our reported business segments, goodwill was reallocated among the business segments.  Immediately following the reallocatio
n, impairment of $3.0 million was recorded in the Home Lending reporting 
segment.  No impairment was re
corded in  20
13 or 2012.    During the 2014 third quarter, we moved our insurance brokerage
 business from Treasury / Other to Commercial Banking to align 
with a change in management responsibilities.   Amounts relating to the realignment are disclosed in the table above.   
 At December 31, 2014 and 2013, Huntington™s other intangible assets consisted of the following:  
    Gross   Net 
   Carrying  Accumulated Carrying 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Amount  Amortization Value 
December 31, 2014      
 Core deposit intangible $400,058 $ (366,907) $33,151
 Customer relationship   107,920  (66,534)  41,386
 Other  25,164  (25,030)  134
Total other intangible assets $533,142 $ (458,471) $74,671
December 31, 2013        

 Core deposit intangible $380,249 $ (335,552) $44,697
 Customer relationship   106,974  (58,675)  48,299
 Other  25,164  (24,967)  197
Total other intangible assets $512,387 $ (419,194) $93,193
    148 
 The estimated amortization expense of other intangible assets for the next five years is as follows: 
   Amortization
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Expense 
    2015 
$26,329
2016 
 12,485
2017 
 11,371
2018 
 9,890
2019 
 8,873
 8.  PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
  Premises and equipment were comprised of the following at December 31, 2014 and 2013:  
  At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 
 Land and land improvements $ 137,702$129,543
 Buildings  367,225 356,555
 Leasehold improvements  235,279 227,764
 Equipment 
 627,307 669,482
Total premises and equipment  1,367,513 1,383,344
Less accumulated depreciation and am
ortization  (751,1
06) (748,687)Net premises and equipmen
t $ 616,407$634,657
 Depreciation and amortization charged to expense and rental income credited to net occupancy expense for the three years ended 
December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 were:  
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 
Total depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment $82,296 $ 78,601$76,170
Rental income credited to occupancy expense  11,556  12,542 11,519
 9.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 
  Short-term borrowings at December 31, 2014 
and 2013 were comprise
d of the following:  
   At December 31,   
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 1,058,096  $548,605 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances  1,325,000   1,800,000 
Other borrowings  14,005   3,538 
Total short-term borrowings $ 2,397,101  $2,352,143 
 Other borrowings consist of borrowings from the Treasury and other notes payable. 
    149 
For each of the three years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, weighted average interest rate at year-end, the maximum 
balance for the year, the average balance for the year, and weighted average interest rate for the year by category of short-te
rm 
borrowings were as follows: 

    
  (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013  2012 
Weighted average interest rate at year-end          
 Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase  0.08 %  0.06% 0.15%
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances  0.14   0.02  0.03 
 Other short-term borrowings  1.11   2.59  1.98 
Maximum amount outstanding at month-end during the year          
 Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase $1,491,350 $ 787,127$1,590,082
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances  2,375,000  1,800,000 1,000,000
 Other short-term borrowings  56,124 19,49726,071
Average amount outstanding during the year          
 Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase $987,156 $ 692,481$1,293,348
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances  1,753,045  702,262 286,530
 Other short-term borrowings  20,797 7,81516,983
Weighted average interest rate during the year          
 Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase  0.07 %  0.08% 0.14%
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances  0.06   0.04  0.17 
 Other short-term borrowings  1.63   1.79  1.36 
 10.  LONG-TERM DEBT 
 Huntington™s long-term debt consisted of the following:  
    At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013 
      
The Parent Company: 
    
Senior Notes: 
    
2.64% Huntington Bancshares Incorporated senior note due 2018 $ 398,924$ 397,306
  Subordinated Notes: 
    
Fixed 7.00% subordinated notes due 2020  330,105 323,856
Huntington Capital I Trust Preferred 0.93% junior 
subordinated debentures due 2027 (1)  111,816 111,816
Huntington Capital II Trust Preferred 0.87% junior
 subordinated debentures due 2028 (2)  54,593 54,593
Sky Financial Capital Trust III 1.66% junior subor
dinated debentures due 2036 (3)  72,165 72,165
Sky Financial Capital Trust IV 1.64% junior subor
dinated debentures du
e 2036 (3)  74,320 74,320
Camco Statutory Trust I 2.71% due 2037 (4)  4,181 ---
  Total notes issued by the parent   1,046,104   1,034,056 
      
The Bank:     
Senior Notes: 
     
1.31% Huntington National Bank seni
or note due 2016  497,477 497,317
1.40% Huntington National Bank seni
or note due 2016  349,499 349,858
5.04% Huntington National Bank medium-term notes due 2018  38,541  39,497
1.43% Huntington National Bank se
nior note due 2019  499,760  ---
2.23% Huntington National Bank se
nior note due 2017  499,759  ---
0.66% Huntington National Bank seni
or note due 2017 (5)  250,000  ---
   150 
Subordinated Notes: 
     
5.00% subordinated notes due 2014 ---  125,109

5.59% subordinated notes due 2016 105,731  108,038

6.67% subordinated notes due 2018 140,115  143,749

5.45% subordinated notes due 2019 85,783  87,214

  Total notes issued by the bank 2,466,665  1,350,782
      
FHLB Advances:     
0.21% weighted average rate, varying maturities greater than one year 758,052  8,293
  Other: 
    
Other 
65,141  65,141
      
Total long-term debt $ 4,335,962 $ 2,458,272
(1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 0.70%. 
(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 0.625%. 
(3) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 1.40%. 
(4) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 1.33%. 
(5) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 0.425%. 
 Amounts above are net of unamortized discounts and adjustments related to hedging with derivative financial instruments. The 
derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used to hedge the fair values of certain fixed-rate debt by conver
ting the 
debt to a variable rate. See Note 18 for more information regarding such financial instruments. 
 In April 2014, the Bank issued $500.0 million of senior notes at 99.842% of face value. The senior note issuances mature on Apr
il 24, 2017 and have a fixed coupon rate of 1.375%. In April 2014, the Bank also issued $250.0 million of senior notes at 100% of 
face value.  The senior bank note issuances mature on April 24, 2017 an
d have a variable coupon rate e
qual to the three-month LIBOR 
plus 
0.425%. Both senior note issuances may be redeemed one month prior to their maturity date at 100% of principal plus accrued and
 unpaid interest. In February 2014, the Bank issued $500.0 million of senior notes at 99.842% of face value.  The senior bank note issuances 
mature on April 1, 2019 and have a fixed coupon rate of 2.20%. The senior note issuance may be redeemed one month prior to the 
maturity date at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest.  
In November 2013, the Bank issued $500.0 million of senior notes at 99.979% of face value. The senior bank note issuances 
mature on November 20, 2016 and have a fixed coupon rate of 1.30%. The senior note issuance may be redeemed one month prior to 
the maturity date at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
 
In August 2013, the parent company issued $400.0 million of senior notes at 99.80% of face value. The senior note issuances 
mature on August 2, 
2018 and have a fixed coupon rate of
 2.60%. In August 2013, th
e Bank issued $350.0 million of senior notes 
at 99.865% of face value.  The senior bank note issuances mature on August 2, 2016 and have a fixed coupon rate of 1.35%. Both sen
ior note issuances may be redeemed one month prior to their maturity date at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
 On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve Bo
ard voted to adopt final capital rules to 
implement Basel III requirements for U.S. 
Banking organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory capital framework that will implement, in the United 
States, the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Do
dd-Frank Act.  Based on our review of the final rules and an opini
on of outside counsel, dated November 6, 2013, we have determine
d that there is a significant risk that our Huntington Preferred Capital, Inc. 7.88% Class C preferred securities will no longer 
constitute Tier 1 capital for the Bank for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or policies of the OCC, when Basel III becomes effe
ctive for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and its affiliates.  As a result, a regulatory capital event has occurred. On November 7
, 2013, the board of directors approved the redemption of Class C preferred securities and on December 31, 2013 (the Redemption Date), 
Huntington Preferred Capital, Inc. redeemed all of the Class C Preferred Securities at the redemption price of $25.00 per share
.     151 
Long-term debt maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 
 dollar amounts in thousands 
 2015  2016 2017 2018 2
019  Thereafter Total  
The Parent Company: 
              
Senior notes $ --- $ ---$---$400,000$--- $ --- $400,000 
Subordinated notes  ---  --- --- --- ---  618,049  618,049 
                
The Bank:                
Senior notes  ---  850,000 750,00
0 --- 500,000  35,000  2,135,000 
Subordinated notes  ---  103,009 
--- 125,539 75,716  ---  304,264 
                
FHLB Advances  ---  750,000 100 1,205 369  6,596  758,270 
                
Other  141  --- --- --- ---  65,000  65,141 
  Total $ 141 $ 1,703,009$750,100$526,744$576,085 $ 724,645 $4,280,724 
 These maturities are based upon the par values of the long-term debt. 
 The terms of the other long-term debt obligations contain various restrictive covenants including limitations on the acquisitio
n of 
additional debt in excess of specified levels, dividend payments, and the disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2014,
 Huntington was in complian
ce with all such covenants. 
 11.  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 The components of Huntington™s OCI in the three years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, were as follows: 
  2014   Tax (expense)  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pretax   Benefit   After-tax
Noncredi
t-related impairment recoveries (losses) on debt securities not expected to be 
sold $13,583  $(4,803)$8,780
Unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the 
period 
86,618   (30,914)  55,704
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included in net income 
(15,559)  5,446  (10,113)
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities   
84,642   (30,271) 54,371
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities   
295   (103) 192
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives used in cash flow hedging relationships 
 14,141   (4,949)  9,192
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losses (gains) included in net income  
(3,971)  1,390  (2,581)
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships  
10,170   (3,559) 6,611
Change in 
pension and post-retirement obli
gations 
(106,857)  37,400 (69,457)
Total other comprehensive income (loss)  $
(11,750) $ 3,467$ (8,283)
   152 
 2013   Tax (expense)  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pretax   Benefit   After-tax
Noncredi
t-related impairment recoveries (losses) on debt securities not expected to be 
sold $235  $(82)$153Unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the 
period 
(125,919) 44,191(81,728)
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included in net income 
6,211   (2,174)4,037
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities   
(119,473)  41,935 (77,538)
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities   
151   (53) 98
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives used in cash flow hedging relationships 

arising during the period  
(86,240)  30,184  (56,056)
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net (gains) losses included in net income  
(15,188)  5,316  (9,872)
Net change in unrealized (losses) gains on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships  
(101,428)  35,500 (65,928)
Re-measurement obligation  
136,452   (47,758) 88,694
Defined benefit pension items  
(13,106)  4,588  (8,518)
Net chan
ge in pension and 
post-retirement obli
gations123,346   (43,170) 80,176
Total other comprehensive income (loss)  $
(97,404) $ 34,212$ (63,192)
 2012   Tax (expense)  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pretax   Benefit   After-tax
Noncredi
t-related impairment recoveries (losses) on debt securities not expected to be 
sold $19,215 
$(6,725)$12,490Unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the 
period 
90,318  (32,137)58,181
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included in net income 
(4,769)  1,669(3,100)
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities   
104,764   (37,193) 67,571
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities   
344   (120) 224
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives used in cash flow hedging relationships 
arising during the period  
(5,476)  1,907  (3,569)
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losses (gains) losses included in net income  
14,992   (5,237)  9,755
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships  
9,516   (3,330) 6,186
Net actuarial gains (losses) arising during the yea
r  (105,527)  36,934 (68,593)
Amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service cost included in income  
27,013   (9,455)  17,558
Net chan
ge in pension and 
post-retirement obli
gations(78,514)  27,479 (51,035)
Total other comprehensive income (loss) $
36,110  $ (13,164)$ 22,946
 
   153 
Activity in accumulated OCI for the three years ended December 31, were as follows: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Unrealized gains and 
(losses) on 
debt securities (1)  Unrealized gains and 
(losses) on 
equity securities  Unrealize
d gains and (losses) on cash flow 
hedging derivatives   
Unrealize
d gains (losses) for pension and othe
r post-retirement 
obligations  
TotalBalance, December 31, 2012  38,304  
194  47,084   (236
,399)  (150,817)
               
Other comprehensive income before reclassi
fications  (81,575)  98  (56,056)  88,694  (48,839)
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI to earnings
 4,037  ---  (9,872)  (8,518)  (14,353)
Period change  (77,538) 98  (65,928)  80,176  (63,192)
Balance, December 31, 2013  (39,234)  
292  (18,844)  (156
,223)  (214,009)
               
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications  64,484  192  9,192   ---  73,868
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI to earnings
 (10,113)  ---  (2,581)  (69,457)  (82,151)
Period change  54,371 192 
 6,611   (69,457)  (8,283)
Balance, December 31, 2014 $15,137 $484 $(12,233) $ (225,680) $(222,292)
(1) Amount at December 31, 2014 includes $0.8 million of net unrealized gains on securities transferred from the available-for-
sale securities portfolio to the held-to-maturity securities portfolio in prior years. The net unrealized gains will be recognized i
n earnings over the remaining life of the security using the effective interest method. 
 The following table presents the reclassification adjustments out of accumulated OCI included in net income and the 
impacted line items as listed on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2014:  
 Reclassifications out of accumulated OCI 
   Amounts reclassed Location of net gain (loss) 
Accumulated OCI components  from accumulated OCI reclassified from accumulated OCI into earnings 
        
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013  
Gains (losses) on debt securities:      
 Amortization of unrealized gains (losses) $597 
$ 482
Interest income - held-to-maturity securities - 
taxable 
 Realized gain (loss) on sale of securities  14,962   (4,891)
Noninterest income - net gains (losses) on sale of 
securities  OTTI recorded  ---   (1,802)
Noninterest income - net gains (losses) on sale of 
securities    15,559   (6,211)Total before tax 
   (5,446)  2,174Tax (expense) benefit 
  $10,113 
$ (4,037)Net of tax 
       
Gains (losses) on cash flow hedging relationships:    
 Interest rate contracts $4,064 
$ 14,979Interest and fee income - loans and leases 
 Interest rate contracts  ---   209Interest and fee income - investment securities 
 Interest rate contracts  (93)  ---Noninterest expense - other income 
   3,971   15,188Total before tax 
   (1,390)  (5,316)Tax (expense) benefit 

  $2,581 
$ 9,872Net of tax 
       
   154 
Amortization of defined benefit pension and post-retirement 
items:   
 Actuarial gains (losses) $106,857 
$ (22,293)Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
 Prior service costs  ---   3,454Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
 Other  ---   (919)Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
 Curtailment  ---   32,864Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
   106,857   13,106Total before tax 
   (37,400)  (4,588)Tax
 (expense) benefit   $69,457 
$ 8,518Net of tax 
  12.  SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY 
 Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
 In 2008, Huntington issued 569,000 shares of 8.50% Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (Series A 
Preferred Stock) with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share.  Each share of the Series A Preferred Stock is non-voting a
nd may 
be converted at any time, at the option of the holder, into 83.6
68 shares of common stock of Huntington, which represents an 
approximate initial conversion price of $11.95 per share of common stock. Since April 15, 2013, at the option of Huntington, th
e Series A Preferred Stock is subject to mandatory conversion into Huntington's common stock at the prevailing conversion rate if
 the 
closing price of Huntington's common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion price for 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive 
trading-day period.  
 In 2011, Huntington issued $35.5 million par value Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a 
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the Series B Preferred Stock) and, in certain cases, an additional amount of cash 
consideration, in exchange for $35.5 million of (1) Huntington Capital I Floating Rate Capital Securities, (2) Huntington Capit
al II Floating Rate Capital Securities, (3) Sky Financial Capital Trust III Floating Rate Capital Securities and (4) Sky Financial Ca
pital Trust IV Floating Rate Capital Securities.  
 As part of the exchange offer, Huntington issued depositary shares. Each depositary share represents a 1/40th ownership interes
t in a share of the Series B Preferred Stock. Each holder of a depositary share will be entitled, in proportion to the applicable
 fraction of 
a share of Series B Preferred Stock and all the related rights and preferences. Huntington will pay dividends on the Series B P
referred 
Stock at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 2.70%.  The preferred stock was recorded at the par amount
 of 
$35.5 million, with the difference between par amount of the shares and their fair value of $23.8 million recorded as a discoun
t.  Share Repurchase Program 
 On March 26, 2014, Huntington announced that the Federal Reserve did not object to Huntington's proposed capital actions 
included in Huntington's capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 2014. These actions included a potential repu
rchase 
of up to $250 million of common stock through the first quarter of 2015. This repurchase authorization represented a $23 millio
n, or 
10%, increase from the prior common stock repurchase authorization. Purchases of common stock may include open market 

purchases, privately negotiated transactions, and accelerated repurchase programs. Huntington™s board of directors authorized a
 share 
repurchase program consistent with Huntington™s capital plan. During 2014, Huntington repurchased a total of 35.7 million share
s of 
common stock at a weighted average share price of $9.37. Duri
ng 2013, Huntington repurchased a total of 16.7 million shares of 
common stock, at a weighted average share price of $7.46. 
 On April 29, 2014, Huntington repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of common stock from a third-party under an 
accelerated share repurchase program. The accelerated share repurchase program enabled Huntington to purchase 1.9 million share
s immediately, while the third party could have purchased shares in 
the market up through June 24, 2
014 (the Repurchase Term). In
 connection with the repurchase of these shares, Huntington entered into a variable share forward sale agreement, which provides
 for a 
settlement, reflecting a price differential based on the adjusted volume-weighted average price as defined in the agreement wit
h the 
third party. The variable share forward agreement was settled in shares
, resulting in approximately 0.3 million shares being de
livered 
to Huntington on June 27, 2014. Based on the adjusted volume-weighted average prices through June 24, 2014, the settlement of t
he 
variable share forward agreement did not have a material impact to Huntington. 
 
Huntington has the ability to repurchase up to $51.7 million of additional shares of common stock through the first quarter of 
2015. We intend to continue disciplined repurchase activity consistent with our annual capital plan, our capital return objecti
ves, and 
market conditions.   

    155 
13.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  Basic earnings per share is the amount of earnings (adjusted for dividends declared on preferred stock) available to each share
 of common stock outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share is the amount of earnings available to each sh
are of common stock outstanding during the reporting period adjusted to include the effect of potentially dilutive common shares.  
Potentially dilutive common shares include incremental shares issued for stock options, restricted stock units and awards, dist
ributions 
from deferred compensation plans, and the conversion of the Company™s convertible preferred stock (See Note 12).  Potentially 
dilutive common shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share in periods in which the effect would be 
antidilutive.  For diluted earnings per share, net income available to common shares can be affected by the conversion of the 

Company™s convertible preferred stock.  Where the effect of this 
conversion would be dilutive, ne
t income available to common 
shareholders is adjusted by the associated preferred dividends and deemed dividend. The calculation of basic and diluted earnin
gs per 
share for each of the three years ended December 31 was as follows: 
    Year ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts) 
 2014   2013 2012 
Basic earnings per common share:  
       Net income $632,392  $ 641,282 $631,290
Preferred stock dividends, deemed dividends and accretion of discount  (31,854)  (31,869)  (31,989)
 Net income available to common shareholders $600,538  $ 609,413 $599,301
Average common shares issued and outstanding  819,917   834,205  857,962
Basic earnings per common share $0.73  $ 0.73 $0.70
Diluted earnings per common share         
Net income available to common shareholders $600,538  $ 609,413 $599,301
Effect of assumed preferred stock conversion  ---   ---  ---
 Net income applicable to diluted earnings 
per share $600,538  $ 609,413 $599,301
Average common shares issued and outstanding  819,917   834,205  857,962
Dilutive potential common shares:         
 Stock options and restricted stock units and awards  11,421   8,418  4,202
 Shares held in deferred compensation plans  1,420   1,351  1,238
 Other  323   ---  ---
Dilutive potential common shares
:  13,164   9,769  5,440
 Total diluted average common shares issu
ed and outstanding  833,081   843,974  863,402
Diluted earnings per common share $0.72  $ 0.72 $0.69
 Approximately 2.6 million, 6.6  million, and 24.4 million options to purchase shares of common stock outstanding at the end of 
2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would
 be 
antidilutive. 
 14.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Huntington sponsors nonqualified 
and incentive share based compensation plans. These plans provide for the granting of stock 
options and other awards to officers, directors, and other employees. Compensation costs are included in personnel costs on the
 Consolidated Statements of Income. Stock options are granted at the closing market price on the date of the grant. Options gran
ted 
typically vest ratably over four years or when other conditions are met.  Stock options, which represented a portion of our gra
nt values, have no intrinsic value until the stock price increases.  Options granted prior to May 2004 have a term of ten years. A
ll options 
granted after May 2004 have a term of seven years.  
 In 2012, shareholders approved the Huntingt
on Bancshares Incorporated 2012 Long-Ter
m Incentive Plan 
(the Plan) which 
authorized 51.0 million shares for future grants. The Plan is the only active plan under which Huntington is currently granting
 share 
based options and awards.  At December 31, 2014, 15.3 million shares from the Plan were available for future grants.  Huntingto
n issues shares to fulfill stock option exercises and restricted stock unit and award vesting from available authorized common sh
ares. At 
December 31, 2014, the Company believes there are adequate authorized common shares to satisfy anticipated stock option exercis
es 
and restricted stock unit and award vesting in 2015. 
    156 
Huntington uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value options in determining our share-based compensation expense. 
Forfeitures are estimated at the date of grant based on historical rates, and updated as necessary, and reduce the compensation
 expense 
recognized. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant. The expected 
dividend 
yield is based on the dividend rate and stock price at the date of the grant.  Expected volatility is based on the estimated vo
latility of 
Huntington™s stock over the expected term of the option. 
 The following table illustrates the weighted average assumptions used in the option-pricing model for options granted in the th
ree years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
     2014   2013   2012  
Assumptions           
  Risk-free interest rate 1.69%  0.79%   1.10%
 Expected dividend yield 2.612.83   2.38
 Expected volatility of Huntington's common stock 32.335.0   34.9
 Expected option term (years) 5.0   5.5   6.0 
Weighted-average grant date fair value per share $2.13  $1.71  $1.78 
 The following table illustrates total share-based compensation expense and related tax benefit for the three years ended Decemb
er 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014   
 2013 
   
2012  
Share-based compensation expense $43,666  
$37,007 
  $
27,873 
Tax benefit  14,779
 12,472 
   
9,298 
 Huntington™s stock option activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2014, was as follows: 
         Weighted-   
   Weighted-  Average 
   Average  RemainingAggregate

   Exercise  ContractualIntrinsic

(amounts in thousands, except years and per share amounts) 
 Options Price  Life 
(Years)ValueOutstanding at January 1, 2014  23,300$7.61   
Granted  1,807 9.22     

Assumed  214      

Exercised  (3,528) 6.02     

Forfeited/expired  (2,174) 17.20     
Outstanding at December 31, 2014  19,619$6.99   3.9$75,794
Expected to vest at December 31, 2014 (1)  4,950$7.64   5.4$14,272
Exercisable at December 31, 2014  14,193$6.73   
3.3$60,311
(1) The number of options expected to vest includes an estimate of 476 thousand shares expected to be forfeited. 
 The aggregate intrinsic value represents the amount by which the fair value of underlying stock exceeds the ﬁin-the-moneyﬂ 
option exercise price. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, cash received for the exercises of stock options 
was 
$21.2 million, $14.4  million and $2.3 million, respectively.  The tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exer
cises 
totaled $3.5 million, $1.8 million and $0.3 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  
 The weighted-average grant date fair value of nonvested shares granted for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 
were $9.09, $7.12, and $6.69, respectively.  The total fair value of awards vested during the years ended December 31, 2014, 20
13, 
and 2012 was $25.7 million, $13.7 million, and $9.10 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2014, the total unrecognized 
compensation cost related to nonvested awards was $61.1 million with a weighted-average expense recognition period of 2.5 years
.     157 
The following table presents additional information regarding options outstanding as of December 31, 2014: 
 (amounts in thousands, except years and per share amounts) 
Options Outstanding   Exercisable Options 
     Weighted-       
     AverageWeighted-     Weighted-

     RemainingAverage     Average
Range of  ContractualExercise  Exercise
Exercise Prices  Shares Life 
(Years)Price  Shares Price
$0 to $5.63  1,843  1.6$4.64   1,836 $4.64
$5.64 to $6.02  7,110  3.66.02   7,078 6.02

$6.03 to $15.95  10,087  4.77.26   4,700 6.78
$15.96 to $22.73  579  0.721.74   57921.74
Total  19,619  3.9$6.99   14,193 $6.73
 Huntington also grants restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance share awards and other stock-based awards.  Restri
cted stock units and awards are issued at no cost to the recipient, and can be settled only in shares at the end of the vesting peri
od.  Restricted stock awards provide the holder with full voting rights and cash dividends during the vesting period.  Restricted st
ock units 
do not provide the holder with 
voting rights or cash dividends during the vesting period, but do accrue a dividend equivalent t
hat is paid upon vesting, and are subj
ect to certain service restrictions.  Performance share awards are payable contingent upon Hunti
ngton 
achieving certain predefined performance objectives over the three-year measurement period.  The fair value of these awards is 
the 
closing market price of Huntington™s co
mmon stock on the grant date. 
 The following table summarizes the status of Huntington's restricted stock units and performance share awards as of December 
31, 2014, and activity for the year ended December 31, 2014: 
      Wei
ghted-Wei
ghted- Wei
ghted-     Average    Average   Average
  Restricted  Grant Date Restricte
dGrant DatePerformanceGrant Date
  Stoc
k  Fair Value Stoc
kFair ValueShareFair Value
(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)  
Awards
  Per Share
 UnitsPer ShareAwardsPer Share
Nonvested at January 1, 2014  --- $--- 12,064$6.80  1,646$6.95
Granted  ---  --- 4,600  9.12  1,076  8.96
Assumed  27  --- ---  ---  ---  ---
Vested  (14)  9.53 (4,003)  6.39  ---  ---
Forfeited  (1)  9.53 (757)  7.54  (143)  7.26
Nonvested at December 31, 2014  12  9.53 11,904$7.79  2,579$7.76
 15.  INCOME TAXES 
  The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state, city, and foreign 
jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits have been complete
d through 2009.  In the first quarter of 2013, the IRS began an 
examination of our 2010 and 2011 consolidated federal income tax returns. Certain proposed adjustments resulting from the IRS 
Examination of our 2005 through 2009 tax returns have been settled with the IRS Appeals Office, subject to final approval by 

the Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress. Various state and other jurisdictions remain open to examination, 
including Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Illinois.   
 Huntington accounts for uncertainties in income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. At December 31, 2014, 
Huntington had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $1.2 million in income tax liability related to tax positions. Due to the 
complexities of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from 
the current estimate of the tax liabilities.  Huntington does not anticipate the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits to
 significantly change within the next 12 months.   
    158 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits: 
     (dollar amounts in thousands
)    
 2014 2013
         
Unrecognized tax benefits at beginning of year    $ 704 $6,246
 Gross increases for tax positions taken during prior years     468  ---

 Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior years     ---  (5,048)

 Settlements with taxing authorities     ---  (494)

Unreco
gnized tax benefits at end of 
year  $ 1
,172$704
 Any interest and penalties on income tax assessments or income tax refunds are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of 
Income as a component of provision for income taxes. Huntington recognized, $0.1 million of interest expense, $0.2 million of i
nterest benefit, and $0.1 million of interest benefit for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Total interes
t accrued was $0.2 million and $0.1 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. All of the gross unrecognized tax benefi
ts would impact the Company™s effective tax rate if recognized. 
 The following is a summary of the provision (benefit) for income taxes:  
    Year Ended  December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 
  2013 2012 
Current tax provision (benefit)         
 Federal  $186,436  $ 117,174 $35,387
 State   
(1,017)  4,278 6,966
Total current tax provision (benefit) 
 185,419  
 121,452 
 42,353Deferred tax provision (benefit)         
 Federal  
41,167   112,681 193,211
 State   
(5,993)  (6,659) (33,273)
Total deferred tax provision (benefit) 
 35,174  
 106,022 
 159,938
Provision for income taxes 
$220,593  $ 227,474 $202,291
 The following is a reconcilement of provision for income taxes:  
    Year Ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in
 thousands)  
2014   2013 2012 
Provision for income taxes computed at the statutory rate $298,545 $ 304,065$291,753
Increases (decreases):        
 Tax-exempt income  (17
,971) (34,378)  (15,752)
 Tax-exempt bank owned life insurance income  (19,967) (19,747)  (19,151)
 General business credits  
(46,047) (39,868)  (49,654)
 State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment, net  (7,430) (6,020)  (21,251)
 Capital loss  (26,948) (961)  (18,659)
 Affordable housing investment amortization, net of tax benefits  33,752  16,851  28,855
 State income taxes, net  2,873  4,472  4,152
 Other  3,786  3,060  1,998
Provision for income taxes  $220,593 $ 227,474$202,291
    159 
      The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, were as follows:    
   At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands
)  2014 2013
Deferred tax assets:      
 Allowances for credit losses $ 233,656$244,684
 Net operating and other loss carryforwar
d  161,548  153,826
 Fair value adjustments  119,512  115,874

 Accrued expense/prepaid  48,656  39,636

 Tax credit carryforward  30,825  50,137

 Partnership investments  24,123  13,552

 Purchase accounting adjustments  13,839  14,096

 Market discount 
 12,215  20,671
 Other 
 9,477  10,437
Total deferred tax assets  653
,851662
,913
Deferred tax liabilities:   
 Lease financing 
 202,298  146,814
 Loan origination costs  103,025  82,345

 Operating assets 
 50,266  46,524
 Mortgage servicing rights  47,748  48,007

 Securities adjustments  27,856  33,719

 Purchase accounting adjustments  17,299  39,578

 Pension and other employee benefits  9,677  12,608

 Other 
 5,178  11,313
Total deferred tax liabilities  463,347  420,908
Net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance  190,504  242,005
Valuation allowance  (73,057)  (111,435)
Net deferred tax asse
t $ 117,447$130,570
 At December 31, 2014, Huntington™s net deferred tax asset related to loss and other carryforwards was $192.4 million. This was 
comprised of federal net operating loss carryforwards of $35.9 million, which will begin expiring in 2023, $48.6 million of sta
te net operating loss carryforward, which will begin expiring in 2015, an alternative minimum tax credit carryforward of $28.5 million
, which may be carried forward indefinitely, a general business credit carryforward of $2.3 million, which will begin expiring in
 2025, 
and a capital loss carryforward of $77.1 million, which expires in 2018.  
 In prior periods, Huntington established a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets for federal capital loss carryforwar
ds, state deferred tax assets, and state net operating loss carryforwards.  The federal valuation allowance was based on the uncert
ainty of forecasted federal taxable income expected of the required character in order to utilize the capital loss carryforward. The sta
te valuation allowance was based on the uncertainty of fo
recasted state taxable income expected in applicable jurisdictions in order to util
ize the state deferred tax assets and state net operating loss carryforwards.  Based on current analysis of both positive and negative 
evidence 
and projected forecasted taxable income of the appropriate character and/or within applicable jurisdictions, the Company believ
es that 
it is more likely than not portions of the federal capital loss carryforward, the state deferred tax assets, and state net oper
ating loss carryforwards will be realized. As a result of this analysis, the federal valuation allowance was reduced to $69.4 million comp
ared to 
$96.3 million at December 31, 2013, for the portion of the capital loss carryforwards the Company expects to realize and the st
ate valuation allowance was reduced to $3.7 million compared to $15.1 million in at December 31, 2013, for the portion of the state
 deferred tax assets and state net operating loss carryforwards the Company expects to realize.   
 
At December 31, 2014 retained earnings included approximately $12.1 million of base year reserves of acquired thrift institutio
ns, 
for which no deferred federal income tax liability has been recognized.  Under current law, if these bad debt reserves are used
 for 
purposes other than to absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to federal income tax at the current corporate rate.  The a
mount of 
unrecognized deferred tax liability relating to the cumulative bad debt deduction was approximately $4.1 million at December 31
, 2014. 
 16.  BENEFIT PLANS  
 Huntington sponsors the Plan, a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees hired or 
rehired prior to January 1, 2010.  The Plan, which was modified in 2013 and no longer accrues service benefits to participants,
 provides benefits based upon length of service and compensation levels. The funding policy of Huntington is to contribute an an
nual 
amount that is at least equal to the minimum funding requirements but not more than the amount deductible under the Internal 
Revenue Code.  There were no required minimum contributions during 2014.  During the 2013 third quarter, the board of directors
 approved, and management communicated, a curtailment of the Company™s pension plan effective December 31, 2013.  
 160 
 In addition, Huntington has an unfunded defined benefit post-retirement plan that provides certain healthcare and life insuranc
e benefits to retired employees who have attained the age of 55 and have at least 10 years of vesting service under this plan.  F
or any 
employee retiring on or after January 1, 1993, post-retirement healthcare benefits are based upon the employee™s number of mont
hs of 
service and are limited to the actual cost of coverage.  Life insurance benefits are a percentage of the employee™s base salary
 at the time of retirement, with a maximum of $50,000 of coverage.  The employer paid portion of the post-retirement health and life 

insurance plan was eliminated for employees retiring on and after March 1, 2010.  Eligible employees retiring on and after Marc
h 1, 2010, who elect retiree medical coverage, will pay the full cost of this coverage.  Huntington will not provide any employer pa
id life insurance to employees retiring on and after March 1, 2010.  Eligible employees will be able to convert or port their existing 
life insurance at their own expense under the same terms that are available to all terminated employees.  
 On January 1, 2015, Huntington terminated the company sponsored retiree health care plan for Medicare eligible 
retirees and their dependents. Instead, Huntington will partner with a third party to assist the retirees and their dependents 
in selecting individual policies from a variety of carriers on a private exchange. This plan amendment resulted in a measurement of the liab
ility at the approval date. The result of the measurement was a $5.2 million reduction of the liability and increase in accumulated othe
r comprehensive income. It will also result in a reduction of expense over the estimated life of plan participants. 
 The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at December 31, 2014 and 
2013, and the net periodic benefit cost for the years then ended: 
    
Pension  Post-Retirement 
   
Benefits  Benefits 
   2014 2013  2014 2013 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations            
 Discount rate  4.12% 4.89%  3.72% 4.27%
 Rate of compensation increase 
N/A  N/A  
N/AN/A 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost            
 Discount rate (1) (2) 4.89  4.15  4.11  3.28 
 Expected return on plan assets 7.25  7.63  
N/A  N/A 
 Rate of compensation increase 
N/A  4.50  
N/A  N/A 
N/A - Not Applicable            
(1) The 2013 pension benefit expense was remeasured as of July 1, 2013. The discount rate was 3.83% from January 1, 2013 to Jul
y 1, 2013, 
and was changed to 4.47% for the period from July 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013.            
(2) The 2014 post-retirement benefit expense was remeasured as of July 31, 2014. The discount rate was 4.27% from January 1, 20
14 to 
 July 31, 2014, and was changed to 3.89% for the period from July 31, 2014 to December 31, 2014.     
 The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is an assumption reflecting the average rate of earnings expected on the f
unds 
invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. The expected long-term rat
e of return 
is established at the beginning of the p
lan year based upon historical returns and projected returns on the underlying mix of i
nvested 
assets.      161 
The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the Plan and the post-retirement 
benefit plan with the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31: 
    Pension   Post-Retirement 
   Benefits   Benefits 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013   2014 2013 
Projected benefit obligation at beginning of measur
ement year $684,999 $7
83,778  $ 25,669 $27,787
Changes due to:         
 Service cost 1,740 25,122   --- ---
 Interest cost 32,398 30,112   856 862
 Benefits paid (16,2
21) (14,886)  (3,401) (3,170)
 Settlements (27,045) (19,363)  --- ---
 Plan amendments --- (13,559)  (8,782) ---
 Plan curtailments --- (7,875)  --- ---
 Medicare subsidies --- ---   462 564
 Actuarial assumptions and gains and losses (1) 123,723 (98,330)  1,159 (374)
Total changes 114,595 (98,779)  (9,706) (2,118)
Projected benefit obligation at end of measurement year  $799,594 $684,999  $ 15,963 $25,669
(1) The 2014 actuarial assumptions include revised mortality tables.  
 Benefits paid for post-retirement are net of retiree contributions collected by Huntington.  The actual contributions received 
in 
2014 by Huntington for the retiree medical program were $2.6 million. 
 The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of the fair value of Plan assets at the December 31, 2014 and 
2013 measurement dates: 
    Pension 
   Benefits 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of measurement year $ 649,020 $633,617
Changes due to: 
     
 Actual return on plan
 assets  44,312  49,652
 Settlements 
 (24,098)  (19,363)
 Benefits paid 
 (16,221)  (14,886)
Total changes 
 3,993  15,403
Fair value of plan assets at end of measurement year $ 653,013 $649,020
 Huntington™s accumulated benefit obligation under the Plan was $799.6 million and $685.0 million at December 31, 2014 and 
2013. As of December 31, 2014, the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Huntington™s plan assets by $146.6
 million and is recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities.  The projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of
 Huntington™s plan assets by $146.6 million.  
 The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs recognized in the three years ended December 31, 2014: 
   Pension Benefits   Post-Retirement Benefits 
(dollar amounts in
 thousands)  
2014 2013 2012  2014   2013 2012 
Service cost $ 1,740$25,122$24,869$--- $ ---$---
Interest cost  32,398 30,112 29,215 856  862 1,350
Expected return on plan assets  (45,783) (47,716) (45,730) ---  --- ---
Amortization of transition asset  --- --- (4) ---  --- ---
Amortization of prior service cost  --- (2,883) (5,767) (1,609) (1,353) (1,353)
Amortization of loss  5,767 23,044 26,956 (571) (600) (332)
Curtailment  --- (34,613) --- ---  --- ---
Settlements  11,200 8,116 5,405 ---  --- ---
Benefit costs $ 5,322$1,182$34,944$(1,324)$ (1,091)$(335)
  162 
Included in benefit costs are $1.8 million, $1.7 million, and $1.1 million of plan expenses that were recognized in the three y
ears ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. It is Huntington™s policy to recognize settlement gains and losses as incurred.  Assum
ing no cash contributions are made to the Plan during 2015, Management expects net periodic pension benefit, excluding any expense 
of 
settlements, to approximate $2.5 million for 2015.  The postretirement medical and life subsidy was eliminated for anyone who r
etires on or after March 1, 2010. As such, there were no incremental net periodic post-retirement benefits costs associated with this 
plan. 
 The estimated transition obligation, prior service credit, and net actuarial loss for the plans that will be amortized from OCI
 into 
net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is zero, $2.0 million, and a $8.4 million benefit, respectively.  
 At December 31, 2014 and 2013, The Huntington National Bank, as trustee, held all Plan assets. The Plan assets consisted of 
investments in a variety of corporate and government fixed income investments, Huntington mutual funds and Huntington common 
stock as follows:  
   Fair Value (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014     2013   
Cash equivalents:       
 Huntington funds - money market $16,1362 %  $ 803---%
Fixed income:       
 Huntington funds - fixed income funds ------    74,04811 
 Corporate obligations 218,07733    180,75728 
 U.S. Government Obligations 62,62710    51,9328 
 Mutual funds - fixed income 34,7615    ------ 
 U.S. Government Agencies 7,4451    6,1461 
Equities:       
 Mutual funds - equities 147,19123    ------ 
 Other common stock 118,97018    ------ 
 Huntington common stock ------    20,3243 
 Huntington funds 37,9206    289,37945 
 Exchange Traded Funds 6,8401    24,7054 
 Limited Partnerships 3,0461    926--- 
Fair value of plan assets $653,013100 %  $ 649,020100%
 Investments of the Plan are accounted for at cost on the trade date and are reported at fair value.  All of the Plan™s investme
nts at December 31, 2014, are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, except for corporate obligations, U.S. government
 obligations, and U.S. government agencies, which are classified as Level 2, and limited partnerships, which are classified as L
evel 3.  
In general, investments of the Plan are exposed to various risks such as interest rate risk, credit risk, and overall market vo
latility.  Due to the level of risk associated with certain investments, it is reasonably possible changes in the values of investments will o
ccur in the 
near term and such changes could materially affect the amounts reported in the Plan assets. 
 The investment objective of the Plan is to maximize the return on Plan assets over a long time period, while meeting the Plan 
obligations.  At December 31, 2014, Plan assets were invested 2% in cash and cash equivalents, 49% in equity investments, and 4
9% 
in bonds, with an average duration of 12.4 years on bond investments.  The estimated life of benefit obligations was 12.8 years
. Although it may fluctuate with market conditions, Management has targeted a long-term allocation of Plan assets of 20% to 50% i
n equity investments and 80% to 50% in bond investments.  The allocation of Plan assets between equity investments and fixed inco
me 
investments will change from time to time with the allocation to fixed income investments increasing as the funding level incre
ases. 
  The following table shows the number of shares and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by the Plan: 
   December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except share amounts)  
 2014  2013 
Shares in Huntington common stock  (1)  ---2,095,304 
Dividends received on shares of Huntington stock  $267$992 
    
(1)The Plan has acquired and held Huntington common st
ock in compliance at all times with Section 407 of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1978. 

      
 At December 31, 2014, the following table shows when benefit payments were expected to be paid: 
 163 
      Post- 
   Pension Retirement 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Benefits Benefits 
 2015 
$ 48,851$1,419
 2016 
 48,416 1,329
 2017 
 45,378 1,235
 2018 
 43,3321,154
 2019 
 43,2381,098
 2020 through 2024 
 209,1534,997
 Although not required, Huntington may choose to make a cash contribution to the Plan up to the maximum deductible limit in the 
2014 plan year.  Anticipated contributions for 2015 to the post-retirement benefit plan are $1.4 million. 
 The assumed healthcare cost trend rate has an effect on the amounts reported. A one percentage point increase would increase th
e accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by $7.6 thousand and would increase interest costs by $3.5 thousand. A one perce
ntage point decrease would decrease the accumulated post-retirement be
nefit obligation by $7.1 thousand 
and would decrease interest c
osts 
by $2.9 thousand.  
 The 2015 and 2014 healthcare cost trend rate was projected to be 7.3% for participants.  This rate is assumed to decrease 
gradually until it reaches 4.5% in the year 2028 and remain at that level thereafter. Huntington updated the immediate healthca
re cost 
trend rate assumption based on current market data and Huntington™s claims experience. This trend rate is expected to decline o
ver time to a trend level consistent with medical inflation and long-term economic assumptions.  
 Huntington also sponsors other nonqualified retirement plans, the most significant being the SERP and the SRIP.  The SERP 
provides certain former officers and directors, and the SRIP provides certain current and former officers and directors of Hunt
ington 
and its subsidiaries with defined pension benefits in excess of limits imposed by federal tax law. At December 31, 2014 and 201
3, Huntington has an accrued pension liability of $35.0 million and $29.2 million, respectively, associated with these plans. Pens
ion 
expense for the plans was $1.0 million, $4
.2 million, and $2.5 million in 2014, 201
3, and 2012, respectively. During the 2013 third 
quarter, the board of directors approved, and management communicated, a curtailment of the Company™s SRIP plan effective 
December 31, 2013.   
 The following table presents the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2014 and 2013 for all 
of Huntington defined benefit plans: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities $ 198,947 $90,842
 The following tables present the amounts recognized in OCI as of December 31, 2014,  2013, and 2012, and the changes in 
accumulated OCI for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
   (dollar amounts in
 thousands)  
2014   2013 2012 
Net actuarial loss $(240,197) $ (166,078) $(262,187)
Prior service cost  14,517   9,855  25,788
Defined benefit pension plans $(225,680) $ (156,223) $(236,399)
    164 
  2014 
      
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pretax Benefit After-tax 
Balance, beginning of year $ (240,345)$ 84,122$ (156,223)
Net actuarial (loss) gain:     
 Amounts arising during the year (133,085) 46,580(86,505)
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 19,056  (6,670)12,386
Prior service cost:       
 Amounts arising during the year  8,781  (3,073)5,708
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs (1,609) 563(1,046)
Transition obligation:     
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs  ---  --- ---
Balance, end of year $ (347
,202)$ 121,522$ (225,680)
        
  2013 
      
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pretax Benefit After-tax 
Balance, beginning of year $ (363,691)$ 127,292$ (236,399)
Net actuarial (loss) gain:     
 Amounts arising during the year 118,666  (41,532)77,134
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 29,194  (10,218)18,976
Prior service cost:       
 Amounts arising during the year  ---  ------
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs (24,514) 8,580(15,934)
Transition obligation:     
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs  ---  --- ---
Balance, end of year $ 
(240,345)$ 84,122$ (156,223)        
  2012 
      
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Pretax Benefit After-tax 
Balance, beginning of year $ (285,177)$ 99,813$ (185,364)
Net actuarial (loss) gain:     
 Amounts arising during the year (105,527) 36,934(68,593)
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 33,880  (11,858)22,022
Prior service cost:       
 Amounts arising during the year  ---  ------
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs (6,865) 2,403(4,462)
Transition obligation:     
 Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs  (2) --- (2)
Balance, end of year $ (363
,691)$ 127,292$ (236,399)
 Huntington has a defined contribution plan that is available to eligible employees.  Through December 31, 2012, Huntington 
matched participant contributions, up to the first 3% of base pay contributed to the Plan. Half of the employee contribution wa
s matched on the 4th and 5th percent of base pay contributed to the Plan.  Starting January 1, 2013, Huntington matched participa
nt contributions, up to the first 4% of base pay contributed to the Plan.  For 2014, a discretionary profit-sharing contribution e
qual to1% of eligible participants™ 2014 base pay was awarded. 
 The following table shows the costs of providing the defined contribution plan as of December 31: 
  Year ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 
Defined contribution plan $31,110$18,238 $ 16,926
       
  165 
The following table shows the number of shares, market value, and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by the 
defined contribution plan: 
  December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except share amounts) 
2014 2013 
Shares in Huntington common stock 12,883,333 13,624,429 
Market value of Huntington common stock $135,533$ 131,476 
Dividends received on shares of Huntington stock 2,694 2,567 
     
 17.  FAIR VALUES OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
 Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general 
classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.  
 Mortgage loans held for sale 
Huntington elected to apply the fair value option for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell which are included in l
oans 
held for sale.  Mortgage loans held for sale are classified as Level 2 and are estimated using security prices for similar prod
uct types. 
 Available-for-sale securities and trading account securities 
Securities accounted for at fair value include both the available-for-sale and trading portfolios.  Huntington uses prices obta
ined 
from third party pricing services and recent trades to determine the fair value of securities.  AFS and trading securities are 
classified as 
Level 1 using quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical securities that Huntington has the ability to a
ccess at the measurement date. Less than 1% of the positions in these portfolios are Level 1, and consist of U.S. Treasury securities an
d money 
market mutual funds.  When quoted market prices are not available, fair values are classified as Level 2 using quoted prices fo
r similar assets in active markets, quoted prices of identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, and inputs that are obse
rvable for the 
asset, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. 83% of the positions in thes
e portfolios are 
Level 2, and consist of U.S. Government and agency debt securities, agency mortgage backed securities, asset-backed securities,
 municipal securities and other securities.  For both Level 1 and Level 2 securities, management uses various methods and techni
ques to corroborate prices obtained from the pricing service, including reference to dealer or other market quotes, and by reviewing
 valuations of comparable instruments.  If relevant market prices are limited or unavailable, valuations may require significant
 management judgment or estimation to determine fair value, in which case the fair values are classified as Level 3. 17% of our 

positions are Level 3, and consist of non-agency Alt-A asset-backed securities, private-label CMO securities, CDO-preferred 
securities and municipal securities.  A significant change in the unobservable inputs for these securities may result in a sign
ificant change in the ending fair value measurement of these securities. 
 The Alt-A, private label CMO and CDO-preferred securities portfolios are classified as Level 3 and as such use significant 
estimates to determine the fair value of these securities which results in greater subjectivity. The Alt-A and private label CM
O securities portfolios are subjected to a monthly review of the projected cash flows, while the cash flows of the CDO-preferred 
securities portfolio are reviewed quarterly. These reviews are supported with analysis from independent third parties, and are 
used as a 
basis for impairment analysis.  
 Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label CMO securities are collateralized by first-lien residential mortgage loans. The securit
ies valuation methodology incorporates values obtained from a third-party pricing specialist using a discounted cash flow approach 
and a 
proprietary pricing model and includes assumptions management believes market participants would use to value the securities un
der current market conditions. The model uses inputs such as estimated prepayment speeds, losses, recoveries, default rates that ar
e implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the structure or similar structures, house price depreciation / apprecia
tion rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates that are implied by market prices for similar securities with si
milar collateral structures. The remaining Alt-A mortgage-backed securities were sold during the third quarter of 2014. 
 CDO-preferred securities are CDOs backed by a pool of debt securities issued by financial institutions. The collateral generall
y consists of trust-preferred securities and s
ubordinated debt securities i
ssued by banks, bank hold
ing companies, and insurance 
companies. A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within this portfo
lio.  We 
engage a third-party pricing specialist with direct industry experience in CDO-preferred securities valuations to provide assis
tance in 
estimating the fair value and expected cash flows for each security in this portfolio.  The PD of each issuer and the market di
scount 
rate are the most significant inputs in determining fair value.  Management evaluates the PD assumptions provided by the third-
party 
pricing specialist by comparing the current PD to the assumptions used the previous quarter, actual defaults and deferrals in t
he current period, and trend data on certain financial ratios of the issuers. Huntington also evaluates the assumptions related to
 discount 
rates.   Relying on cash flows is necessary because there was a lack of observable transactions in the market and many of the o
riginal 
sponsors or dealers for these securities are no longer able to provide a fair value. 
 166 
 Huntington utilizes the same processes to determine the fair value of investment securities classified as held-to-maturity for 
impairment evaluation purposes. 
 Automobile loans 
Effective January 1, 2010, Huntington consolidated an automobile loan securitization that previously had been accounted for as 
an off-balance sheet transaction. As a result, Huntington elected to account for these automobile loan receivables at fair valu
e per guidance supplied in ASC 825.  The automobile loan receivables are classified as Level 3. The key assumptions used to determine
 the fair value of the automobile loan receivables included projections of expected losses and prepayment of the underlying loans in
 the portfolio and a market assumption of interest rate spreads. Certain interest rates are available from similarly traded securiti
es while other interest rates are developed internally based on similar asset-backed security transactions in the market. During the fir
st quarter 
of 2014 Huntington cancelled the 2009 and 2006 Automobile Trust.   Huntington continues to report the associated automobile loa
n receivables at fair value due to its 2010 election.
  MSRs  MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices.  Accordingly, the fair value of these assets is classifie
d as 
Level 3. Huntington determines the fair value of MSRs using an income approach model based upon our month-end interest rate cur
ve and prepayment assumptions.  The model utilizes assumptions to estimate future net servicing income cash flows, including estim
ates of time decay, payoffs, and changes in valuation inputs and assumptions.  Servicing brokers and other sources of information (e
.g. 
discussion with other mortgage servicers and industry surveys) are used to obtain information on market practice and assumption
s.  On at least a quarterly basis, third party marks are obtained from at least one service broker.  Huntington reviews the valuati
on assumptions against this market data for reasonableness and adjusts the assumptions if deemed appropriate.  Any recommended 
change in assumptions and / or inputs are presented for review to the Mortgage Price Risk Subcommittee for final approval.   

 Derivatives 
Derivatives classified as Level 2 consist of foreign exchange and commodity contracts, which are valued using exchange traded 
swaps and futures market data.  In addition, Level 2 includes interest rate contracts, which are valued using a discounted cash
 flow method that incorporates current market interest rates.  Level 2 also includes exchange traded options and forward commitments 
to deliver mortgage-backed securities, which are valued using quoted prices.  
 Derivatives classified as Level 3 consist primarily of interest rate lock agreements related to mortgage loan commitments.  The
 determination of fair value includes assumptions related to the likelihood that a commitment will ultimately result in a closed
 loan, 
which is a significant unobservable assumption.  A significant increase or decrease in the external market price would result i
n a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. 
    167 
Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are summarized below: 
 Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Netting   Balance at 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
Level 1 Level 2  Level 3 Adjustments (1)  December 31, 2014
Assets         
Loans held for sale $ --- $354,888 $--- $---  $ 354,888

Loans held for investment  --- 40,027  --- ---   40,027
Trading account securities:             
 Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed  --- ---  --- ---   ---

 Federal agencies: Other agencies  --- 2,857  --- ---   2,857

 Municipal securities  --- 5,098  --- ---   5,098

 Other securities  33,121 1,115  --- ---   34,236

   33,121 9,070  --- ---   42,191
Available-for-sale and other securities:               

 U.S. Treasury securities  5,452  ---  ---  ---   5,452

 Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed  ---  5,322,701  ---  ---   5,322,701

 Federal agencies: Other agencies  ---  351,543  ---  ---   351,543

 Municipal securities  ---  450,976  1,417,593  ---   1,868,569

 Private-label CMO  ---  11,462  30,464  ---   41,926

 Asset-backed securities  ---  873,260  82,738  ---   955,998

 Corporate debt  ---  486,176  ---  ---   486,176

 Other securities  17,430  3,316  ---  ---   20,746
   22,882  7,499,434  1,530,795  ---   9,053,111
Automobile loans  ---  ---  10,590  ---   10,590
MSRs  ---  ---  22,786  ---   22,786

Derivative assets   ---  449,775  4,064 (101,197)  352,642

Liabilities               
Derivative liabilities  ---  335,524  704  (51,973)  284,255

Short-term borrowings  ---  2,295  ---  ---   2,295
                
   168 
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Netting   Balance at 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
Level 1 Level 2  Level 3 Adjustments (1)  December 31, 2013
Assets         
Mortgage loans held for sale $ --- $278,928 $--- $---  $ 278,928
Trading account securities:             
 Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed  --- ---  --- ---   ---

 Federal agencies: Other agencies  --- 834  --- ---   834

 Municipal securities  --- 2,180  --- ---   2,180

 Other securities  32,081 478  --- ---   32,559

   32,081 3,492  --- ---   35,573
Available-for-sale and other securities:               

 U.S. Treasury securities  51,604  ---  ---  ---   51,604

 Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed (2)  ---  3,566,221  ---  ---   3,566,221

 Federal agencies: Other agencies  ---  319,888  ---  ---   319,888

 Municipal securities  ---  491,455  654,537  ---   1,145,992

 Private-label CMO  ---  16,964  32,140  ---   49,104

 Asset-backed securities  ---  983,621  107,419  ---   1,091,040

 Covered bonds  ---  285,874  ---  ---   285,874

 Corporate debt  ---  457,240  ---  ---   457,240
 Other securities  16,971  3,828  ---  ---   20,799
   68,575  6,125,091  794,096  ---   6,987,762
Automobile loans  ---  ---  52,286  ---   52,286
MSRs  ---  ---  34,236  ---   34,236

Derivative assets   36,774  
219,045  3,066 (58,856)  200,029
Liabilities               

Derivative liabilities  22,787  124,123  676  (18,312)  129,274

Short-term borrowings  ---  1,089  ---  ---   1,089
(1) Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and
 negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
 (2) During 2013, Huntington transferred $292.2 million of federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities from the available-for-s
ale securities portfolio to the held-to-maturity securities portfolio.  These securities are valued at amortized cost and no longer
 classified within the fair value hierarchy.  All securities were previously classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
 The tables below present a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 for 
financial instruments measured on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3. The classification of an item as Level 3 is base
d on the 
significance of the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement. However, Level 3 measurements may also include 

observable components of value that can be validated externally. Accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include c
hanges in 
fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology: 
   169 
     Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
    Year ended December 31, 2014 
      Available-for-sale securities  
         Asset-  
     Derivative Municipal Private-  backed Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
 MSRs instrumentssecurities label CMO  securities loans 
Balance, beginning of year  $ 34,236$2,390$654,537$32,140 $ 107,419$52,286
Total gains / losses:              

 Included in earnings   (11,450) 3,047 --- 36  226 (918)
 Included in OCI   --- --- 14,776 452  21,839 ---
Purchases   --- --- 1,038,348 ---  --- ---
Sales   --- --- --- ---  (22,870) ---
Repayments   --- --- --- ---  --- (40,778)
Settlements   --- (2,077) (290,068) (2,164) (23,876) ---
Balance, end of year  $ 22,786$3,360$1,417,593$30,464 $ 82,738$10,590
               
Change in unrealized gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings (or changes in net 
assets) for assets held at end of the reporting 

date  $ (11,450)$3,047$14,776$452 $ 21,137$(1,624)
    Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
    Year ended December 31, 2013 
      Available-for-sale securities  
         Asset-  
     Derivative Municipal Private  backed Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
 MSRs instrumentssecurities label CMO  securities loans 
Balance, beginning of year  $ 35,202$12,702$61,228$48,775 $ 110,037$142,762
Total gains / losses:              

 Included in earnings   
(966) (5,944) 2,129 
(180) (2,244) (358)
 Included in OCI   --- --- 9,075 1,703  35,139 ---
Other (1)   --- --- 600,435 ---  --- ---

Sales   --- --- --- (10,254) (16,711) ---

Repayments   --- --- --- ---  --- (90,118)
Settlements   --- (4,368) (18,330) (7,904) (18,802) ---
Balance, end of year  $ 34,236$2
,390$654,537$32,140 $ 107,419$52,286
              
 Change in unrealized gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings (or changes in net 
assets) for assets held at end of the reporting 
date  $ (966)$(5,944)$9,075$1,703 $ 35,139$(358)
   170 
      Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
    Year ended December 31, 2012 
      Available-for-sale securities  
         Asset-  
     Derivative Municipal Private  backed Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
 MSRs instrumentssecurities label CMO  securities loans 
Balance, beginning of year  $ 65
,001$(169)$95,092$72,364 $ 121,698$296,250
Total gains / losses:              
 Included in earnings   (29,799) 10,617 --- (796) (59) (1,230)
 Included in OCI   --- --- (1,637) 8,245  23,138 ---
Sales   --- --- (3,040)
 (15,183) (20,852) ---
Repayments   --- --- --- ---  --- (152,258)
Settlements   --- 2,254 (29,187) (15,855) (13,888) ---
Balance, end of year  $ 35,202$12,702$61,228$48,775 $ 110,037$142,762
               
Change in unrealized gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings (or changes in net 
assets) for assets held at end of the reporting 
date  $ (29,799)$5,818$(1,637)$8,245 $ 23,138$(1,230)
 (1) Effective December 31, 2013 approximately $600.4 million of direct purchase municipal instruments were reclassified from C&
I  The tables below summarize the classification of gains and losses due to changes in fair value, recorded in earnings for Level 
3 assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
    Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
   Year ended December 31, 2014 
     Available-for-sale securities  
        Asset-  
    Derivative Municipal Private  backed Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 MSRs instrumentssecurities label CMO  securities loans 
Classification of gains and losses in earnings:           
Mortgage banking income (loss) $ (11,450)$3,047$---$--- $ ---$---

Securities gains (losses)  --- --- --- ---  170 ---
Interest and fee income  --- --- --- 36  56 (1,032)
Noninterest income  --- --- --- ---  --- 114
Total $ (11,450)$3,047$---$36 $ 226$(918)
   171 
   Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
   Year ended December 31, 2013 
     Available-for-sale securities  

        Asset-  
    Derivative Municipal Private  backed Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 MSRs instrumentssecurities label CMO  securities loans 
Classification of gains and losses in earnings:           
Mortgage banking income (loss) $ (966)$(5,944)$---$--- $ ---$---

Securities gains (losses)  --- --- --- (336) (1,466) ---
Interest and fee income  --- --- 2,129 156  (778) (3,569)
Noninterest income  --- --- --- ---  --- 3,211
Total $ (966)$(5,944)$2,
129$(180)$ (2,244)$(358)
   Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
   Year ended December 31, 2012 
     Available-for-sale securities  

        Asset-  
    Derivative Municipal Private  backed Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 MSRs instrumentssecurities label CMO  securities loans 
Classification of gains and losses in earnings:           
Mortgage banking income (loss)
 $ (29,799)$10,617$---$--- $ ---$---
Securities gains (losses)  --- --- --- (1,614) --- ---
Interest and fee income  --- --- --- 818  (59) (6,950)
Noninterest income  --- --- --- ---  --- 5,720
Total $ (29,799)$10,617$-
--$(796)$ (59)$(1,230)
 Assets and liabilities under the fair value option  
 The following table presents the fair value and aggregate principal balance of certain assets and liabilities under the fair va
lue option: 

    December 31, 2014 
  December 31, 2013 
   Fair valueAggregate
  Fair valueAggregate
   carrying unpaid
  carrying unpaid(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 amoun
tprincipal
Difference  
amoun
tprincipal
Difference
Assets       
     
      
 Loans held for sale $ 354,888  $340,070 $14,818 $278,928 
 $ 276,945 $1,983
 Loans held for investment  40,027   40,938  (911)  --- 
  ---  ---
 Automobile loans  10,590   10,022  568  52,286 
  50,800  1,486
 The following tables present the net gains (losses) from fair value changes, including net gains (losses) associated with instr
ument 
specific credit risk for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012: 
   Net gains (losses) from fair value changes 
  Year ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
2014   
 2013 
   2012  
Assets 
    
        Mortgage loans held for sale $(1,978)  
$(12,711)
  $4,284 
 Automobile loans  (918)
 (360)
   (1,231)
Liabilities  
   
  Securitization trust notes payable  ---
 --- 
   (2,023)
    172 
   Gains (losses) included in fair value changes 
  associated with instrument specific credit risk 
  Year ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
2014   
 2013 
   2012  
Assets 
    
        Automobile loans $911  
$2,207 
  $2,749 
 Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
 Certain assets and liabilities may be required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to th
eir initial recognition.  These assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis; however, they are subjec
t to fair 
value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of impairment.  For the year ended December 31, 2014
, assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were as follows:   
      Fair Value Measurements Using     
     Quoted Prices   Significant   Significant   Total  
     In Active   Other   Other   Gains/(Losses)

     Markets for   Observable  
 Unobservable   For the 
  Fair Value at 
  Identical Assets  Inputs  Inputs  Year Ended 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
December 31, (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) December 31, 
2014        
Impaired loans $ 52,911  $--- $--- $52,911  $(53,660) 

Other real estate owned 35,039  ---  --- 35,039  $(4,021) 
 Periodically, Huntington records nonrecurring adjustments of collateral-dependent loans measured for impairment when 
establishing the ACL. Such amounts are generally based on the fair value of the underlying collateral supporting the loan.  App
raisals 
are generally obtained to support the fair value of the collateral and incorporate measures such as recent sales prices for com
parable properties and cost of construction.  In cases where the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the collateral less cost to s
ell, an impairment charge is recognized.  Appraisals are reviewed and approved by Huntington. 
 Other real estate owned properties are included in accrued income and other assets and valued based on appraisals and third par
ty price opinions, less estimated selling costs. 
 Significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis 
 The table below presents quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities measured
 at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2014: 

 Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Fair Value at  Valuation  Significant  Range 
 December 31, 2014  Technique  Unobservable Input  (Weighted Average) 
MSRs $ 22,786  Discounted cash flo
w Constant prepayment rate (CPR) 7% - 26% (16%)
     
Spread over forward interest rate 
swap rates 228 - 900 (546)
     Net costs to service $21 - $79 ($40)
      
Derivative assets  4,064  Consensus Pricing Net market price -5.09% - 17.46% (1.7%)
Derivative liabilities  704   Estimated Pull thru % 38% -  91% (75%)

      
Municipal securities  1,417,593  Discounted cash flo
w Discount rate 0.5% - 4.9% (2.5%)
      

Private-label CMO  30,464  Discounted cash flo
w Discount rate 2.7% - 7.2% (6.0%)
     Constant prepayment rate (CPR) 13.6% - 32.6% (20.7%)
     Probability of default 0.1% - 4.0% (0.7%)
     Loss Severity 0.0% - 64.0% (33.9%) 
      
 173 
Asset-backed securities  82,738  Discounted cash flo
w Discount rate 4.3% - 13.3% (7.3%)
     Cumulative prepayment rate 0.0% - 100% (10.1%)
     Cumulative defaul
t 1.9% - 100% (15.9%)
     Loss given default 20% - 100% (94.4%) 
     Cure given deferral 0.0% - 75% (32.6%) 
      
Automobile loans  10,590  Discounted cash flo
w Constant prepayment rate (CPR) 154.2%
     Discount rate 0.2% - 5.0% (2.3%)
     Life of pool cumulative losses 2.1%
      
Impaired loans  52,911  Appraisal value NA NA
      

Other real estate owned  35,039  Appraisal value NA NA
      
 The following provides a general description of the impact of a change in an unobservable input on the fair value measurement 
and the interrelationship between unobservable inputs, where relevant/significant.  Interrelationships may also exist between 
observable and unobservable inputs.  Such relationships have not been included in the discussion below. 
 A significant change in the unobservable inputs may result in a significant change in the ending fair value measurement of Leve
l 3 instruments.  In general, prepayment rates increase when market interest rates decline and decrease when market interest rate
s rise and higher prepayment rates generally result in lower fair values for MSR assets, Private-label CMO securities, Asset-backed 
securities, and Automobile loans.   
 
Credit loss estimates, such as probability of default, constant default, cumulative default, loss given default, cure given def
erral, 
and loss severity, are driven by the ability of the borrowers to pay their loans and the value of the underlying collateral and
 are 
impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, typically increasing when economic conditions worsen and decreasing when 
conditions improve.  An increase in the estimated prepayment rate typically results in a decrease in estimated credit losses an
d vice versa.  Higher credit loss estimates generally result in lower fair values.  Credit spreads generally increase when liquidity r
isks and 
market volatility increase and decrease when liquidity conditions and market volatility improve.   
 Discount rates and spread over forward interest rate swap rates typically increase when market interest rates increase and/or c
redit and liquidity risks increase and decrease when market interest rates decline and/or credit and liquidity conditions improve.  H
igher 
discount rates and credit spreads generally result in lower fair market values.   
 
Net market price and pull through percentages generally increase when market interest rates increase and decline when market 
interest rates decline.  Higher net market price and pull through percentages generally result in higher fair values. 
    174 
Fair values of financial instruments  
 The following table provides the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of Huntington™s financial instruments that are carr
ied either at fair value or cost at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013: 
    December 31, 2014   December 31, 2013 
   Carrying  Fair   Carrying  Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Amount Value   Amount Value 
Financial Assets:           
 Cash and short-term assets $1,285,124 $1,285,124 $ 1,058,175$1,058,175

 Trading account securities  42,191  42,19135,573 35,573
 Loans held for sale  416,327  416,327326,212 326,212
 Available-for-sale and other securities  9,384,670  9,384,6707,308,753 7,308,753
 Held-to-maturity securities  3,379,905  3,382,7153,836,667 3,760,898
 Net loans and direct financing leases  47,050,530  45,110,40642,472,630 40,976,014
 Derivatives  352,642  352,642200,029 200,029
Financial Liabilities:           
 Deposits   51,732,151  52,454,80447,506,718 48,132,550
 Short-term borrowings   2,397,101  2,397,1012,352,143 2,343,552
 Long term debt  4,335,962  4,286,3042,458,272 2,424,564
 Derivatives  284,255  284,255129,274 129,274
 The following table presents the level in the fair value hierarchy for the estimated fair values of only Huntington™s financial
 instruments that are not already on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013: 
 Estimated Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Balance at (dollar amounts in thousands)  
Level 1 Level 2  Level 3   December 31, 2014
Financial Assets        
 Held-to-maturity securities 
$--- $3,382,715 $---  $ 3,382,715
 Net loans and direct financing leases 
 --- ---  45,110,406   45,110,406
Financial liabilities 
          
 Deposits 
 --- 48,183,798  4,271,006   52,454,804
 Short-term borrowings 
 --- ---  2,397,101   2,397,101
 Long-term debt 
 --- ---  4,286,304   4,286,304
            
Estimated Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Balance at (dollar amounts in thousands)  
Level 1 Level 2  Level 3   December 31, 2013
Financial Assets        
 Held-to-maturity securities $
--- $3,760,898 $---  $ 3,760,898
 Net loans and direct financing leases  
--- ---  40,976,014   40,976,014
Financial liabilities  
         
 Deposits  
--- 42,279,542  5,853,008   48,132,550
 Short-term borrowings  
--- ---  2,343,552   2,343,552
 Long-term debt  
--- ---  2,424,564   2,424,564
 The short-term nature of certain assets and liabilities result in their carrying value approximating fair value. These include 
trading 
account securities, customers™ acceptance liabilities, short-term borrowings, bank acceptances outstanding, FHLB advances, and 
cash 
and short-term assets, which include cash and due from banks, intere
st-bearing deposits in banks,
 and federal funds sold and se
curities purchased under resale agreements. Loan commitments and letters of credit generally have short-term, variable-rate features and
 contain clauses that limit Huntington™s exposure
 to changes in customer credit qualit
y. Accordingly, their carrying values, whi
ch are immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of fair value. Not all the financial instruments lis
ted in the table above are subject to the disclosure provisions of ASC Topic 820. 
    175 
Certain assets, the most significant being operating lease assets, bank owned life insurance, and premises and equipment, do no
t meet the definition of a financial instrument and are excluded from this disclosure. Similarly, mortgage and nonmortgage servic
ing 
rights, deposit base, and other customer relationship intangibles 
are not considered financial instruments and are not included
 above. 
Accordingly, this fair value information is not intended to, and does not, represent Huntington™s underlying value. Many of the
 assets 
and liabilities subject to the disclosure requirements are not actively traded, requiring fair values to be estimated by Manage
ment. 
These estimations necessarily involve the use of judgment about 
a wide variety of factors, including but not limited to, releva
ncy of 
market prices of comparable instruments, expected future cash flows, and appropriate discount rates.  
 The following methods and assumptions were used by Huntington to estimate the fair value of the remaining classes of financial 
instruments: 
 Held-to-maturity securities 
Fair values are determined by using models that are based on security-specific details, as well as relevant industry and econom
ic factors. The most significant of these inputs are quoted market prices, and interest rate spreads on relevant benchmark securit
ies.  Loans and Direct Financing Leases 
Variable-rate loans that reprice frequently are based on carrying amounts, as adjusted for estimated credit losses. The fair va
lues for 
other loans and leases are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and employ interest rates currently being offered for 
loans 
and leases with similar terms. The rates take into account the position of the yield curve, as well as an adjustment for prepay
ment risk, 
operating costs, and profit. This value is also reduced by an estimate of expected losses and the credit risk associated in the
 loan and 
lease portfolio. The valuation of the loan portfolio reflected discounts that Huntington believed are consistent with transacti
ons occurring in the market place.  
 
Deposits 
Demand deposits, savings accounts, and money market deposits are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand. The fai
r values of fixed-rate time deposits are estimated by discounting cash flows using interest rates currently being offered on cert
ificates with similar maturities.  
 Debt 
Fixed-rate, long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices, which are inclusive of Huntington™s credit risk. In the absence 
of quoted market prices, discounted cash flows using market rates for similar debt with the same maturities are used in the determ
ination of fair value. 
 18.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in accrued 
income and other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value. 
 Derivatives used in Asset and Liability Management Activities  
 Huntington engages in balance sheet hedging activity, principally for asset liability management purposes, to convert fixed 
rate assets or liabilities into floating rate or vice versa. Balance sheet hedging activity is arranged to receive hedge accoun
ting 
treatment and is classified as either fair value or cash flow hedges. Fair value hedges are purchased to convert deposits and 
subordinated and other long-term debt from fixed-rate obligations to floating rate. Cash flow hedges are used to convert floati
ng rate loans made to customers into fixed rate loans. 
 The following table presents the gross notional values of derivatives used in Huntington™s asset and liability management 
activities at December 31, 2014, identified by the underlying interest rate-sensitive instruments: 
    Fair Value   Cash Flow    
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 Hedges   Hedges   Total 
Instruments associated with:         
 Loans $---  $ 9,300,000 $9,300,000

 Deposits 
69,100   --- 69,100
 Subordinated notes 475,000   --- 475,000

 Long-term debt 2,285,000   --- 2,285,000
Total notional value at December 31, 2
014 $2,829,100  $ 9,
300,000 $12,129,100
    176 
The following table presents additional information about the interest rate swaps used in Huntington™s asset and liability 
management activities at December 31, 2014: 
        Average    Weighted-Average 

   Notional  Maturity  Fair  Rate 
(dollar amounts in thousands )  
Value (years) Value  Receive Pay 
Asset conversion swaps             
 Receive fixed - generic $9,300,000 2.0  $(17,078) 0.80%0.24%
Liability conversion swaps             
 Receive fixed - generic  2,829,100 3.1   57,544  1.73 0.25 
Total swap portfolio $12,129,100 2.2  $40,466  1.02%0.25%
 These derivative financial instruments were entered into for the purpose of managing the interest rate risk of assets and liabi
lities. Consequently, net amounts receivable or payable on contracts hedging either interest earning assets or interest bearing liabili
ties were accrued as an adjustment to either interest income or interest expense. The net amounts resulted in an increase to net interest
 income 
of $97.6 million, $95.4 million, and $107.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.   

 In connection with the sale of Huntington's Class B Visa
 shares, Huntington entered into a swap agreement with the purchaser of 
the shares.  The swap agreement adjusts for dilution in the conversion ratio of Class B shares resulting from the Visa
 litigation.  At 
December 31, 2014, the fair value of the swap liability of $0.4 million is an estimate of the exposure liability based upon Hun
tington™s 
assessment of the potential Visa
 litigation losses. 
 The following table presents the fair values at December 31, 2014 and 2013 of Huntington™s derivatives that are designated and 
not designated as hedging instruments. Amounts in the table below are presented gross without the impact of any net collateral 
arrangements: 
 
Asset derivatives included in accrued income and other assets 
   
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014   2013 
Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments 
$ 53,114 $49,998
Interest rate contracts not designated as hedging instruments  
 183,610  169,047
Foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
 32,798  28,499
Commodity contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
 180,218  4,278
Total contracts 
$ 449,740 $251,822
       
Liability derivatives included in accrued expenses and other liabilities 
   
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014   2013 
Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments 
$ 12,648 $25,321
Interest rate contracts not designated as hedging instruments  
 110,627  99,247
Foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
 29,754  18,909
Commodity contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
 179,180  3,838
Total contracts 
$ 332,209 $147,315
 The changes in fair value of the fair value hedges are, to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, recorded thro
ugh 
earnings and offset against changes in the fair value of the hedged item. 
    177 
The following table presents the change in fair value for derivatives designated as fair value hedges as well as the offsetting
 change in fair value on the hedged item: 
    
Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014   2013 2012 
Interest rate contracts       
 Change in fair value of interest rate swaps
 hedging deposits (1) $(1,045) $ (4,006) $(2,526)
 Change in fair value of hedged de
posits (1)  1,025   4,003  2,601
 Change in fair value of interest rate swap
s hedging subordinated no
tes (2)  476   (44,699)  1,432
 Change in fair value of hedged su
bordinated notes (2)  (476)  44,699  (1,432)
 Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging other long-term debt (2)  1,990   (5,716)  114
 Change in fair value of hedged other long-term debt (2)  828   6,843  (114)
(1) Effective portion of the hedging relationship is recognized in Interest expense - deposits in the Consolidated Statements o
f Income.  Any resulting ineffective portion of the hedging relationship is recognized in noninterest income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income.  
          
(2) Effective portion of the hedging relationship is recognized in Interest expense - subordinated notes and other-long-term de
bt in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income.  Any resulting ineffective portion of the hedging relationship is recognized in noninterest 
income 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  

 To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the variability of the hedged cash flows, changes in the derivative
s™ fair value will not be included in current earnings but are reported as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statements of Shareho
lders™ 
Equity. These changes in fair value will be included in earnings of future periods when earnings are also affected by the chang
es in the 
hedged cash flows. To the extent these derivatives are not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in 

noninterest income.  
 The following table presents the gains and (losses) recognized in OCI and the location in the Consolidated Statements of Income
 of gains and (losses) reclassified from OCI into earnings for derivatives designated as effective cash flow hedges: 
   Derivatives in cash flow 
hedging relationships  
Amount of gain or (loss) 
recognized in OCI on 
derivatives (effective portion) 
Location of gain or (loss) 
reclassified from accumulated OCI 
into earnings (effective portion)  
Amount of (gain) or loss 
reclassified from accumulated OCI 
into earnings (effective portion) 
(pre-tax) 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014   2013   2012   2014   2013 2012 
Interest rate contracts                
 Loans $ 9,192  $ (56,056) $ (2,866) 
Interest and fee income - loans and 
leases $ (4,064) $ (14,979) $14,849
 Investment securities  ---   ---   (703) 
Interest and fee income - 
investment securities  93   (209)  ---
 Subordinated notes  ---   ---   --- 
Interest expense - subordinated 
notes and other long-term debt  ---   ---  143
Total $ 9,192  $ (56,056) $ (3,569)  $ (3,971) $ (15,188) $14,992
 Reclassified gains and losses on swaps related to loans and investment securities and swaps related to subordinated debt are 
recorded within interest income and interest expense, respectively. During the next twelve months, Huntington expects to reclas
sify to 
earnings $21.1  million after-tax, of unrealized gains on cash flow hedging derivatives currently in OCI. 
 The following table presents the gains and (losses) recognized in noninterest income for the ineffective portion of interest ra
te contracts for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the years ending December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012: 
    December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014   2013  2012 
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships        
Interest rate contracts:        
 Loans 
$ 74  $ 878 
$(179)
  178 
Derivatives used in trading activities 
 Various derivative financial instruments are offered to enable customers to meet their financing and investing objectives and f
or 
their risk management purposes. Derivative financial instruments used in trading activities consisted of commodity, interest ra
te, and 
foreign exchange contracts. The derivative contracts grant the option holder the right to buy or sell an underlying financial i
nstrument 
for a predetermined price before the contract expires. Huntington may enter into offsetting third-party contracts with approved
, reputable counterparties with substantially matching terms and currencies in order to economically hedge significant exposure r
elated to derivatives used in trading activities.  
 
Commodity derivatives help the customer hedge risk and reduce exposure to price changes in commodities. Activity related to 
commodity derivatives is concentrated in large corporate, middle market, and energy sectors. Commodities markets trade and incl
ude oil, refined products, natural gas, coal, as well as industrial and precious metals.  The energy sector focuses on oil, gas, an
d coal. Based on policy limits and the relatively small notional amounts of commodity activity, we do not anticipate any meaningful pri
ce risk 
for our commodity derivatives. Interest rate options grant the option holder the right to buy or sell an underlying financial i
nstrument 
for a predetermined price before the contract expires.  Interest rate futures are commitments to either purchase or sell a fina
ncial instrument at a future date for a specified price or yield and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the underlying fin
ancial 
instrument.  Interest rate caps and floors are option-based contracts that entitle the buyer to receive cash payments based on 
the difference between a designated reference rate and a strike price, applied to a notional amount. Written options, primarily cap
s, expose 
Huntington to market risk but not credit risk. Purchased options contain both credit and market risk.  The interest rate risk o
f these 
customer derivatives is mitigated by entering into similar derivatives having offsetting terms with other counterparties. The c
redit risk 
to these customers is evaluated and included in the calculation of fair value. Foreign currency derivatives help the customer h
edge risk and reduce exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates.  Transactions are primarily in liquid currencies with Canadian dollars a
nd Euros 
comprising a majority of all transactions.   
 The net fair values of these derivative financial instruments used in trading activities, for which the gross amounts are inclu
ded in accrued income and other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities at December 31, 2014 and 2013, were $74.4 million and
 $80.5 million, respectively. The total notional values of derivative financial instruments used by Huntington on behalf of cust
omers, 
including offsetting derivatives, were $14.4 billion and $14.3 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Huntington™
s credit risks from derivatives used for trading purposes were
 $219.3 million and $160.4 million at 
the same dates, respectively.
   
 Financial assets and liabilities that are offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets  
 Huntington records derivatives at fair value as further described in Note 17. Huntington records these derivatives net of any 
master netting arrangement in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   Collateral agreements are regularly entered into as part of th
e underlying derivative agreements with Huntington™s counterparties to mitigate counterparty credit risk.  
 All derivatives are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.  Derivative balances are presented on a net basis
 taking into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements.  Cash collateral exchanged with counter
parties is also netted against the applicable derivative fair values.  Huntington enters into derivative transactions with two primary 
groups: broker-dealers and banks, and Huntington™s customers.  Different methods are utilized for managing counterparty credit exposure
 and 
credit risk for each of these groups.  
 Huntington enters into transactions with broker-dealers and banks for various risk management purposes.  These types of 
transactions generally are high dollar volume. Huntington enters into bilateral collateral and master netting agreements with t
hese counterparties, and routinely exchange cash and high quality securities collateral with these counterparties.   Huntington ente
rs into 
transactions with customers to meet their financing, investing, payment and risk management needs.  These types of transactions
 generally are low dollar volume. Huntington generally enters into master netting agreements with customer counterparties, howev
er collateral is generally not exchanged with customer counterparties. 
 
At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, aggregate credit risk associated with these derivatives, net of collateral that has
 been pledged by the counterparty, was $19.5 million and $15.2 million, respectively. The credit risk associated with interest r
ate swaps is calculated after considering master netting agreements with broker-dealers and banks.  
 At December 31, 2014, Huntington pledged $130.9 million of investment securities and cash collateral to counterparties, while 
other counterparties pledged $130.0 million of investment securities and cash collateral to Huntington to satisfy collateral ne
tting 
agreements.  In the event of credit downgrades, Huntington would not be required to provide additional collateral. 
    179 
The following tables present the gross amounts of these assets and liabilities with any offsets to arrive at the net amounts 
recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:
  Offsetting of Financial Assets and Derivative Assets 
        
          Gross amounts not offset in 
the consolidated balance 
sheets 
  (dollar amounts in thousands) 
Gross amounts 
of recognized 
assets  
Gross amounts 
offset in the 
consolidated 
balance sheets 
Net amounts o
f assets presented in 
the 
consolidated 
balance sheets 
Financial instruments  
Cash collateral received  
Net amoun
t Offsetting of Financial Assets and Derivative Assets         
               
December 31, 2014 Derivatives $  480,803  $ (128,161) $ 352,642  $ (27,744) $  (1,095) $ 323,803  
December 31, 2013 Derivatives   300,903    (111,458)   189,445    (35,205)   (360)   153,880  
   
             Offsetting of Financial Liabilities and Derivative Liabilities         
          Gross amounts not offset in 
the consolidated balance 

sheets 
  (dollar amounts in thousands) 
Gross amounts 
of recognized 
liabilities  
Gross amounts 
offset in the consolidated 
balance sheets 
Net amounts o
f assets presented in 

the consolidated 
balance sheets 
Financial instruments  
Cash collateral delivered  
Net amoun
t Offsetting of Financial Liabilities and Derivative Liabilities         
December 31, 2014 Derivatives $ 363,192$(78,937)$284,255$(78,654)$ (111)$205,490
December 31, 2013 Derivatives  196,397 (76,539) 119,858 (86,204) 290 33,944
 Derivatives used in mortgage banking activities 
 Huntington also uses certain derivative financial instruments to offset changes in value of its residential MSRs.  These deriva
tives 
consist primarily of forward interest rate agreements and forward commitments to deliver mortgage-backed securities.  The deriv
ative 
instruments used are not designated as hedges.  Accordingly, such derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes in fair v
alue reflected in mortgage banking income
.  The following table summarizes the derivative assets and liabilities used in mortgage banking 
activities:     At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 
Derivative assets: 
     
 Interest rate lock agreements $ 4,064 $3,066
 Forward trades and options  35  3,997
Total derivative assets  4,099  7,063
Derivative liabilities:      
 Interest rate lock agreements  (259)  (231)
 Forward trades and options  (3,760)  (40)
Total derivative liabilities  (4,019)  (271)
Net derivative asset (liability) $ 80 $6,792
    180 
The total notional value of these derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2014 and 2013, was $0.6 billion and $0.5 
billion, respectively.  The total notional amount at December 31, 2014 corresponds to trading assets with a fair value of $3.0 
million 
and no trading liabilities. Net trading gains (losses) related to MSR hedging for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 
2012, 
were $7.1 million, $(25.0) million, and $31.3 million, respectively.  These amounts are included in mortgage banking income in 
the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 19.  VIEs 
 Consolidated VIEs  
 Consolidated VIEs at December 31, 2014 consisted of automobile loan and lease securitization trusts formed in 2009 and 2006.  
Huntington has determined the trusts are VIEs.  Huntington has concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of these trusts bec
ause it 
has the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly affect the entity™s economic performance and it ha
s either the 
obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits fro
m the entity 
that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  During the 2014 first quarter, Huntington cancelled the 2009 and 2006 Automo
bile Trusts.  As a result, any remaining assets at the time of the cancellation are no longer part of the trusts. 
 The following tables present the carrying amount and classification of the consolidated trusts™ assets and liabilities that wer
e included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
     2009 2006   Other  
    AutomobileAutomobile   Consolidated 
    Trust Trust   Trusts Total 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
  December 31, 2014 
Assets:               
 Cash    $--- $---  $ --- $---

 Loans and leases     ---  ---   ---  ---
 Allowance for loan and lease losses     ---  ---   ---  ---
 Net loans and leases     ---  ---   ---  ---
 Accrued income and other assets     ---  ---   243  243

Total assets    $--- $---  $ 243 $243
Liabilities:               

 Other long-term debt    $--- $---  $ --- $---
 Accrued interest and other liabilities     ---  ---   243  243
Total liabilities    $--- $---  $ 243 $243
    2009 2006   Other  
    AutomobileAutomobile   Consolidated 
    Trust Trust   Trusts Total 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
  December 31, 2013 
Assets:               
 Cash    $8,580 $79,153  $ --- $87,733
 Loans and leases     52,286  151,171   ---  203,457
 Allowance for loan and lease losses     ---  (711)  ---  (711)
 Net loans and leases     52,286  150,460   ---  202,746
 Accrued income and other assets     235  485   262  982

Total assets    $61,101 $230,098  $ 262 $291,461
Liabilities:               

 Other long-term debt    $--- $---  $ --- $---
 Accrued interest and other liabilities     ---  ---   262  262
Total liabilities    $--- $---  $ 262 $262
 The automobile loans and leases were designated to repay the securitized notes.  Huntington services the loans and leases and 
uses the proceeds from principal and interest payments to pay the securitized notes during the amortization period.  All securi
tized notes were repaid prior to December 21, 
2013. Huntington has not provided financial or other support that was not previously 
contractually required.  
  181 
Unconsolidated VIEs 
 The following tables provide a summary of the assets and liabilities included in Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements
, as well as the maximum exposure to losses associated with interests related to unconsolidated VIEs for which Huntington holds a
n interest, but is not the primary beneficiary to the VIE at December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
   December 31, 2014 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
Total Assets  Total Liabilities  Maximum Exposure to Loss 
2012-1 Automobile Trust $2,136$--- $ 2,136

2012-2 Automobile Trust  3,220 ---  3,220
2011 Automobile Trust  944 ---  944
Tower Hill Securities, Inc.  55,611 65,000  55,611
Trust Preferred Securities  13,919 317,075  ---
Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnerships  368,283 154,861  368,283
Other Investments  83,400 20,760  83,400
Total $527,513$557,696 $ 513,594
        
  December 31, 2013 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
Total Assets  Total Liabilities  Maximum Exposure to Loss 
2012-1 Automobile Trust $5,975$--- $ 5,975

2012-2 Automobile Trust  7,396 ---  7,396
2011 Automobile Trust  3,040 ---  3,040
Tower Hill Securities, Inc.  66,702 65,000  66,702
Trust Preferred Securities  13,764 312,894  ---
Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnerships  317,226 134,604  317,226
Other Investments  90,278 9,772  90,278
Total $504,381$522,270 $ 490,617
 2012-1 AUTOMOBILE TRUST, 2012-2 AUTOMOBILE TRUST, and 2011 AUTOMOBILE TRUST 
 During the 2012 first and fourth quarters, and 2011 third quarter, we transferred automobile loans totaling $1.3 billion, $1.0 
billion, and $1.0 billion, respectively to trusts in separate securitization transactions. The securitizations and the resultin
g sale of all 
underlying securities qualified for sale accounting. Huntington has concluded that it is not the primary beneficiary of these t
rusts because it has neither the obligation to absorb losses of the entities that could potentially be significant to the VIEs nor th
e right to 
receive benefits from the entities that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. Huntington is not required and does not c
urrently 
intend to provide any additional financial support to the trusts. Investors and creditors only have recourse to the assets held
 by the 
trusts.  The interest Huntington holds in the VIEs relates to servicing rights which are included within accrued income and oth
er assets of Huntington™s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The maximum exposure 
to loss is equal to the carryi
ng value of the servicing asse
t.  
TOWER HILL SECURITIES, INC. 
 In 2010, we transferred approximately $92.1 million of municipal securities, $86.0 million in Huntington Preferred Capital, Inc
. (Real Estate Investment Trust) Class E Preferred Stock and cash of $6.1 million to Tower Hill Securities, Inc. in exchange for 
$184.1 
million of Common and Preferred Stock of Tower Hill Securities, Inc. The municipal securities and the REIT Shares will be used 
to satisfy $65.0 million of mandatorily redeemable securities issued by Tower Hill Securities, Inc. and are not available to satis
fy the 
general debts and obligations of Huntington or any consolidated affiliates. The transfer was recorded as a secured financing.  
Interests held by Huntington consist of municipal securities within available for sale and other securities and Series B preferred securi
ties within long term debt of Huntington™s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying value
 of the municipal securities.
  TRUST-PREFERRED SECURITIES  Huntington has certain wholly-owned trusts whose assets, liabilities, equity, income, and expenses are not included within 
Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  These trusts have been formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust-preferred 
securities, from which the proceeds are then invested in Huntington junior subordinated debentures, which are reflected in 

Huntington™s Consolidated Balance Sheet as subordinat
ed notes.  The trust securities are th
e obligations of the trusts, and as 
such, are not consolidated within Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  A list of trust-preferred securities outstanding at De
cember 
31, 2014 follows:  182 
     Principal amount of Investment in 
    subordinated note/ unconsolidated 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
Rate debenture issued to trust (1) subsidiary 
Huntington Capital I 0.93% (2)  $111,816   $6,186 
Huntington Capital II 0.87
% (3)
   54,593   3,093 
Sky Financial Capital Trust III 1.66
% (4)
   72,165   2,165 
Sky Financial Capital Trust IV 1.63
% (4)
   74,320   2,320 
Camco Financial Trust 1.57
% (5)
   4,181   155 
Total    $317,075   $13,919 
(1) Represents the principal amount of debentures issued to each trust, including unamortized original issue discount. 
(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 0.70. 
 (3) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 0.625. 
 (4) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 1.40. 
 (5) 
Variable effective rate (including impact of purchase accounting accretion) at December 31, 2014, based on three month LIBOR + 
1.33. 
 Each issue of the junior subordinated debentures has an interest rate equal to the corresponding trust securities distribution 
rate.  Huntington has the right to defer payment of interest on the debentures at any time, or from time-to-time for a period not exce
eding 
five years provided that no extension period may extend beyond the stated maturity of the related debentures.  During any such 
extension period, distributions to the trust securities will also be deferred and Huntington™s ability to pay dividends on its 
common 
stock will be restricted.  Periodic cash payments and payments upon liquidation or redemption with respect to trust securities 
are 
guaranteed by Huntington to the extent of funds held by the trusts.  The guarantee ranks subordinate and junior in right of pay
ment to 
all indebtedness of the Company to the same extent as the junior subordinated debt.  The guarantee does not place a limitation 
on the 
amount of additional indebtedness that may be incurred by Huntington. 
 LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT PARTNERSHIPS 
 Huntington makes certain equity investments in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects utilizing 
the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code.  The purpose of these investments is
 to achieve a satisfactory return on capital, to facilitate the sale of additional affordable housing product offerings, and to 
assist in achieving goals associated with the Community Reinvestment Act.  The primary activities of the limited partnerships include the
 identification, development, and operation of multi family housing that is leased to qualifying residential tenants.  Generally
, these types of investments are funded through a combination of debt and equity.   
Huntington is a limited partner in each Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnership.  A separate unrelated third party is the 
general partner.  Each limited partnership is managed by the general partner, who exercises full and exclusive control over the
 affairs 
of the limited partnership.  The general partner has all the rights, powers and authority granted or permitted to be granted to
 a general 
partner of a limited partnership under the Ohio Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act.  Duties entrusted to the general partn
er of each limited partnership include, but are not limited to: investment in operating companies, company expenditures, investment o
f excess funds, borrowing funds, employment of agents, disposition of fund property, prepayment and refinancing of liabilities, v
otes and consents, contract authority, disbursement of funds, accounting methods, tax elections, bank accounts, insurance, litigatio
n, cash reserve, and use of working capital reserve funds.  Except for limited rights granted to consent to certain transactions, the l
imited 
partner(s) may not participate in the operation, management, or control of the limited partnership's business, transact any bus
iness in 
the limited partnership's name or have any power to sign documents for or otherwise bind the limited partnership.  In addition,
 the 
general partner may only be removed by the limited partner(s) in the event the general partner fails to comply with the terms o
f the 
agreement and/or is negligent in performing its duties. 
Huntington believes the general partner of each limited partnership has the power to direct the activities which most significa
ntly 
affect the performance of each partnership, therefore, Huntington has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of any 
LIHTC partnership. Huntington uses the proportional amortization method to account for a majority of its investments in these entitie
s.  These 
investments are included in accrued income and other assets. 
 Investments that do not meet th
e requirements of the proportional
 amortization method are recognized using the equity method.  Investment losses related to these investments are included in non
-interest-income in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. 
During the 2014 first quarter, Huntington
 early adopted ASU 2014-01 (s
ee Note 2).  The amendments ar
e required to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented.  As a result of these changes, Huntington recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to 
beginning retained earnings. 
 183 
The following table presents th
e balances of Huntington™s a
ffordable housing tax credit investments and related unfunded 
commitments at December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
    December 31, December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014  2013 
Affordable housing tax credit investments 
$ 576,381 $484,799
Less: amortization 
 (208,098)  (167,573)
Net affordable housing tax credit investments $ 368,283 $317,226
 Unfunded commitments  
$ 154,861 $134,604
 The following table presents other information relating to Huntington™s affordable housing tax credit investments for the years
 ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
    Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)  
2014 
 2013 
  2012 
Tax credits and other tax benefits recognized $51,317 $ 55,819 $55,558
Proportional amortization method         

 Tax credit amortization expense included in provision for income taxes  39,021  32,789  32,337
Equity method          
 Tax credit investment losses included in non-interest income  434  1,176  676
 There were no sales of LIHTC investments in 2014.  During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Huntington sold 
LIHTC investments resulting in gain
s of $8.7 million and $5.4 mil
lion, respectively.  The gains we
re recorded in noninterest in
come 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Huntington recognized immaterial impairment losses for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.  The impairment 
losses recognized related to the fair value of the tax credit investments that were less than carrying value.  
 OTHER INVESTMENTS 
 Other investments determined to be VIE™s include investments in New Market Tax Credit Investments, Historic Tax Credit 
Investments, Small Business Investment Companies, Rural Business Investment Companies, certain equity method investments and 
other miscellaneous investments.   

 20.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
 Commitments to extend credit
  In the ordinary course of business, Huntington makes various commitments to extend credit that are not reflected in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The contract amounts of these financial agreements at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 
2013, were as follows:  
    
 At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 2013 
Contract amount represents credit risk      
 Commitments to extend credit:      
  Commercial 
$ 11,181,522 $10,198,327
  Consumer 
 7,579,632 6,544,606
  Commercial real estate  908,112 765,982
 Standby letters of credit  497,457 439,834
    184 
Commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration dates, are variable-rate, and contain clauses that permit Huntingt
on 
to terminate or otherwise renegotiate the contracts in the event of a significant deterioration in the customer™s credit qualit
y. These arrangements normally require the payment of a fee by the customer, the pricing of which is based on prevailing market conditio
ns, credit quality, probability of funding, and other relevant factors. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire with
out being drawn upon, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash requirements. The interest rate risk arisi
ng from 
these financial instruments is insignificant as a result of their predominantly short-term, variable-rate nature. 
 Standby letters-of-credit are conditional commitments issued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These
 guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financin
g, 
and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature within two years. The carrying amount of deferred revenue associate
d with these guarantees was $4.4 million and $2.1 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
 Through the Company™s credit process, Huntington monitors the credit risks of outstanding standby letters-of-credit. When it is
 probable that a standby letter-of-credit will be drawn and not repaid in full, losses are recognized in the provision for credi
t losses.  At 
December 31, 2014, Huntington had $497 million of standby letters-of-credit outstanding, of which 80% were collateralized.   

Included in this $497 million total are letters-of-credit issued by the Bank that support securities that were issued by custom
ers and remarketed by The Huntington Investment Company, the Company™s broker-dealer subsidiary.   
 Huntington uses an internal grading system to assess an estimate of loss on its loan and lease portfolio.  This same loan gradi
ng 
system is used to monitor credit risk associated with standby letters-of-credit.  Under this risk rating system as of December 
31, 2014, 
approximately $137 million of the standby letters-of-credit were rated strong with sufficient asset quality, liquidity, and goo
d debt capacity and coverage, approximately $360 million were rated average with acceptable asset quality, liquidity, and modest debt 
capacity; and none were rated substandard with negative financial trends, structural weaknesses, operating difficulties, and hi
gher 
leverage. 
 Commercial letters-of-credit represent short-term, self-liquidating instruments that facilitate customer trade transactions and
 generally have maturities of no longer than 90 days. The goods or cargo being traded normally secures these instruments. 
 Commitments to sell loans  
 Activity related to our mortgage origination activity supports the hedging of the mortgage pricing commitments to customers and
 the secondary sale to third parties.  At December 31, 2014 and 2013, Huntington had commitments to sell residential real estate
 loans of $545.0 million and $452.6 million, respectively. These contracts mature in less than one year. 
 Litigation  The nature of Huntington™s business ordinarily results in a certain amount of pending as well as threatened claims, litigation,
 investigations, regulatory and legal and administrative cases, matters, and proceedings, all of which are considered incidental
 to the 
normal conduct of business. When the Company determines it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted, it vigorously defen
ds 
itself. The Company considers settlement of cases when, in Management™s judgment, it is in the best interests of both the Compa
ny 
and its shareholders to do so. 
 On at least a quarterly basis, Huntington assesses its liabilities and contingencies in connection with threatened and outstand
ing 
regulatory legal, and administrative cases, matters and proceedings, utilizing the latest information available.  For cases, ma
tters and proceedings where it is both probable the Company will incur a loss and the amount can be reasonably estimated, Huntington 

establishes an accrual for the loss. Once established, the accrual is adjusted as appropriate to reflect any relevant developme
nts.  For 
cases, matters or proceedings where a loss is not probable or the amount of the loss cannot be estimated, no accrual is establi
shed.  In certain cases, matters and proceedings, exposure to loss exists in excess of the accrual to the extent such loss is reasonab
ly possible, but not probable.  Management believes an estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses, in excess of
 amounts accrued, for current legal proceedings is from $0 to approximately $130.0 million at December 31, 2014. For certain oth
er 
cases, matters and proceedings, Management cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss at this time. Any estimate involves 
significant judgment, given the varying stages of the proceedings (including the fact that many of them are currently in prelim
inary stages), the existence of multiple defendants in several of the current proceedings whose share of liability has yet to be dete
rmined, the 
numerous unresolved issues in many of the proceedings, and the inherent uncertainty of the various potential outcomes of such 
proceedings. Accordingly, Management™s estimate will change from time-to-time, and actual losses may be more or less than the 

current estimate.  
    185 
While the final outcome of legal cases, matters, and proceedings is inherently uncertain, based on information currently availa
ble, advice of counsel, and available insurance coverage, Management believes that the amount it has already accrued is adequate and
 any 
incremental liability arising from the Company™s legal cases, matters, or proceedings will not have a material negative adverse
 effect 
on the Company's consolidated financial position as a whole. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is pos
sible 
that the ultimate resolution of these cases, matters, and proceedings, if unfavorable, may be material to the Company™s consoli
dated 
financial position in a particular period. 

 The Bank has been named a defendant in two lawsuits arising from the Bank™s commercial lending, depository, and equipment 
leasing relationships with Cyberco Holdings, Inc. (Cyberco), based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In November 2004, the Federal 

Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service raided Cyberco™s facilities and Cyberco's operations ceased. An equipm
ent leasing fraud was uncovered, whereby Cyberco sought financing from equipment lessors and financial institutions, including the 
Bank, allegedly to purchase computer equipment from Teleservices Group, Inc. (Teleservices). Cyberco created fraudulent 
documentation to close the financing transactions when, in fact, no computer equipment was ever purchased or leased from 
Teleservices, which later proved to be a shell corporation. 

 Cyberco filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition on December 9, 2004, and Teleservices then filed its Chapter 7 bankruptcy petitio
n on January 21, 2005.  In an adversary proceeding commenced agai
nst the Bank on December 8, 2006, the Cyberco bankruptcy trustee
 sought recovery of over $70.0 million he alleged was transferred to the Bank. The Cyberco bankruptcy trustee also alleged prefe
rential transfers were made to the Bank in the amount of approximately $1.2 million. The Bank moved to dismiss the complaint and all bu
t the preference claims were dismissed on Janu
ary 29, 2008. The Bankruptcy 
Court ordered the case to be
 tried in July 2012, and 
entered an order governing all pretrial conduct. The Bank filed a motion for summary judgment on the basis that the Cyberco tru
stee sought recovery of the same alleged transfers as the Teleservices trustee in a separate case described below. The Bankruptcy Co
urt granted the motion in principal part and the parties stipulated to a full dismissal which was entered on June 19, 2012.  
The Teleservices bankruptcy trustee filed a separate adversary proceeding against the Bank on January 19, 2007, seeking to avoi
d and recover alleged transfers that occurred in two ways: (1) checks made payable to the Bank for application to Cyberco's 

indebtedness to the Bank, and (2) deposits into Cyberco's bank accounts with the Bank. A trial was held as to only the Bank™s 
defenses.  Subsequently, the trustee filed a summary judgment motion on her affirmative case, alleging the fraudulent transfers
 to the Bank totaled approximately $73.0 million and seeking judgment in that amount (which includes the $1.2 million alleged to be 

preferential transfers by the Cyberco bankruptcy trustee). On March 17, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Opinion determinin
g that the alleged transfers made to the Bank during the period from April 30, 2004 through November 2004 were not received in go
od 
faith and that the Bank failed to show a lack of knowledge of the avoidability of the alleged transfers made from September 200
3 through April 30, 2004.  The trustee then filed an amended motion for summary judgment in her affirmative case and a hearing wa
s held on July 1, 2011.   
On March 30, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Opinion on the Teleservices trustee™s motion determining the Bank was the 
initial transferee of the checks made payable to it and was a subsequent transferee of all deposits into Cyberco™s accounts.  T
he Bankruptcy Court ruled Cyberco™s deposits were themselves transfers to the Bank under the Bankruptcy Code, and the Bank was 
liable for both the checks and the deposits, totaling approximately $ 73.0 million. The Bankruptcy Court ruled the Bank may be 
entitled to a credit of approximately $ 4.0 million for the Cyberco trustee™s recoveries in preference actions filed against th
ird parties 
that received payments from Cyberco within 90 days preceding Cyberco™s bankruptcy.  Lastly, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the
 Teleservices trustee was entitled to an award of prejudgment interest at a rate to be determined.  A trial was held on these re
maining 
issues on April 30, 2012, and the Court issued a bench opinion on July 23, 2012. In that opinion, the Court denied the Bank the
 $ 4.0 
million credit, but ruled approximately $ 0.9 million in deposits we
re either double-counted or were outside the timeframe in w
hich the Teleservices trustee could recover. Therefore, the Bankruptcy Court™s recommended award was reduced by $ 0.9 million. Furth
er, the Bankruptcy Court ruled the interest rate specified in the federal statute governing post-judgment interest, which is based 
on U.S. Treasury bill rates, would be the rate of interest used to determine prejudgment interest. The Bankruptcy Court™s March 2011 an
d March 2012 opinions, as well as its July 23, 2012 bench opinion, were not reduced to final judgment by the Bankruptcy Court.  
Rather, the Bankruptcy Court delivered its report and recommendation to the District Court for the Western District of Michigan
, recommending that the District Court enter a final judgment against the Bank in the principal amount of $ 71.8 million, plus in
terest through July 27, 2012, in the amount of $ 8.8 million. The parties filed their respective objections and responses to the Bankr
uptcy Court™s report and recommendation. Oral argument on the parties™ objections and responses to the report and recommendation was 

held by the District Court on September 22, 2014.  Each party then submitted a rebuttal brief to the District Court on October 
6, 2014. 
The District Court is conducting a 
de novo
 review of the fact findings and legal conclusions in the Bankruptcy Court™s report and 
recommendation and has not issued a ruling to date.  
    186 
During the pendency of the adversary proceedings commenced by the Cyberco and Teleservices trustees, the Bank moved to 
substantively consolidate the two bankruptcy estates, principally on the ground that Teleservices was the alter ego and a mere 
instrumentality of Cyberco at all times. On July 2, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Opinion and Order denying the Bank's 

motion for substantive consolidation of the two bankruptcy estates.  The Bank appealed that decision to the Bankruptcy Appellat
e Panel (BAP) for the Sixth Circuit, which ruled that the order denying substantive consolidation would not be a final order unti
l the 
Bankruptcy Court issued its opinion on the Bank™s defenses in the Teleservices adversary proceeding, and dismissed the appeal. 
The 
Bank appealed the BAP™s decision to the Sixth Circuit. When the Bankruptcy Court issued its March 17, 2011, opinion in the 
Teleservices adversary proceeding, the Bank again appealed the order denying substantive consolidation to the BAP, which appeal
 was held in abeyance pending decision by the Sixth Circuit on th
e appeal of the BAP™s 2010 orde
r. On August 30, 2013, the Sixth
 Circuit affirmed the BAP™s 2010 decision dismissing the original appeal. The Bank filed a status report with the BAP on the sec
ond 
appeal and the trustees then moved to dismiss the second appeal on the ground that the Bankruptcy Court™s orders denying substa
ntive consolidation were still not final orders. The BAP granted the trustees™ motion in an Order dated December 23, 2013.  
 The Bank is a defendant in an action filed on January 17, 2012 against MERSCORP, Inc. and numerous other financial 
institutions that participate in the mortgage electronic registration system (MERS). The putative class action was filed on beh
alf of all 
88 counties in Ohio. The plaintiffs allege that the recording of mortgages and assignments thereof is mandatory under Ohio law 
and seek a declaratory judgment that the defendants are required to record every mortgage and assignment on real property located i
n Ohio 
and pay the attendant statutory recording fees. The complaint also seeks damages, attorney™s fees and costs. Huntington filed a
 motion 
to dismiss the complaint, which has been fully briefed, but no ruling has been issued by the Geauga County, Ohio Court of Commo
n Pleas. Similar litigation has been initiated against MERSCORP, Inc. and other financial institutions in other jurisdictions thr
oughout 
the country, however, the Bank has not been 
named a defendant in those other cases.   
 The Bank is also a defendant in a putative class action filed on October 15, 2013. The plaintiffs filed the action in West Virg
inia state court on behalf of themselves and other West Virginia mortgage loan borrowers who allege they were charged late fees in 
violation of West Virginia law and the loan documents. Plaintiffs seek statutory civil penalties, compensatory damages and atto
rney™s 
fees. The Bank removed the case to federal court, answered the complaint, and, on January 17, 2014, filed a motion for judgment
 on the pleadings, asserting that West Virginia law is preempted by federal law and therefore does not apply to the Bank. Following
 further briefing by the parties, the Court denied the Bank™s motion for judgment on the pleadings on September 26, 2014. On Oct
ober 
7, 2014, the Bank filed a motion to certify the District Court™s decision for interlocutory review by the Fourth Circuit Court 
of Appeals. The plaintiffs have opposed the Bank™s motion. No ruling has yet been issued by the Court. 
 Commitments Under Operating Lease Obligations  
 At December 31, 2014, Huntington and its subsidiaries were obligated under noncancelable leases for land, buildings, and 
equipment. Many of these leases contain renewal options and certain leases provide options to purchase the leased property duri
ng or 
at the expiration of the lease period at specified prices. Some leases contain escalation clauses calling for rentals to be adj
usted for increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses or proportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other pri
ce indices.   The future minimum rental payments required under operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in 
excess of one year as of December 31, 2014, were as follows: $50.9 million in 2015, $47.7 million in 2016, $44.4 million in 201
7, 
$41.2 million in 2018, $37.9 million in 2019, and $237.1 million thereafter.  At December 31, 2014, total minimum lease payment
s have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $8.4 million due in the future under noncancelable subleases.  At December
 31, 2014, the future minimum sublease rental payments that Huntington expects to receive were as follows: $4.0 million in 2015,
 $2.0 million in 2016, $1.0 million in 2017, $0.6 mil
lion in 2018, $0.3 million in
 2019, and $0.5 million ther
eafter.  The rental expense for all operating leases was $57.2 million, $55.3 million, and $54.7 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Huntington had
 no 
material obligations under capital leases. 
 21.  OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS 
 Huntington and its bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank (the Bank), are subject to various regulatory capital 
requirements administered by federal and state banking agencies. These requirements involve qualitative judgments and quantitat
ive measures of assets, liabilities, capital amounts, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting
 practices. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a mater
ial adverse effect on Huntington™s and the Bank™s financial statements. Applicable capital adequacy guidelines require minimum rati
os of 4.00% for Tier 1 risk-based Capital, 8.00% for total risk-based Capital, and 4.00% for Tier 1 leverage capital. To be considere
d well-capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the ratios must be at least 6.00%, 10.00%, and 5.00%, 

respectively.   
  187 
As of December 31, 2014, Huntington and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements and had regulatory capital ratios in 
excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions.  The period-end capital amounts and capital ratios of Hunti
ngton and 
the Bank are as follows: 

   Tier 1 risk-based capital (1) Total risk-based capital (1)  Tier 1 leverage capital (1) 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
 2014 
  2013    2014 
  2013    2014 
  2013  
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated                   
Amount $ 6,265,900  $ 6,099,629  $7,388,336 $7,239,035  $ 6,265,900 $6,099,629 
Ratio  11.50 %  12.28%  13
.56% 14.57%   9.74% 10.67%
The Huntington National Bank                   
Amount $ 6,136,190  $ 5,682,067  $6,956,242 $6,520,190  $ 6,136,190 $5,682,067 
Ratio  11.28 %  11.45%  12
.79% 13.14%   9.56% 9.97%
                      
(1) In accordance with applicable regulatory reporting guidance, we are not required to retrospectively update historical filin
gs for 
newly adopted accounting principles.  Therefore, regulatory capital data has not been updated for the adoption of ASU 2014-01. 
 Tier 1 risk-based capital consists of total equity plus qualifying capital securities and minority interest, excluding unrealiz
ed gains 
and losses accumulated in OCI, and non-qualifying intangible and servicing assets. Total risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 
1 risk-
based capital and qualifying subordinated notes and allowable allowances for credit losses (limited to 1.25% of total risk-weig
hted assets). Tier 1 leverage capital is equal to Tier 1 capital. Both Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital ratios are derive
d by dividing 
the respective capital amounts by net risk-weighted assets, which are calculated as prescribed by regulatory agencies. The Tier
 1 
leverage capital ratio is calculated by dividing the Tier 1 capital amount by average total assets for the fourth quarter of 20
14 and 
2013, less non-qualifying intangibles and other adjustments.  
 Huntington has the ability to provide additional capital to the Bank to maintain the Bank™s risk-based capital ratios at levels
 at which would be considered well-capitalized. 
 On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve voted to adopt final capital rules implementing Basel III requirements for U.S. Banking 
organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory capital framework and will implement in the United States the
 Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank A
ct. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizat
ions. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the final rule includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital 
(Tier 1 Common) to risk-weighted assets and a Tier 1 Common capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply
 to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and inc
ludes a 
minimum leverage ratio of 4% for all banking organizations.   These new minimum capital ratios were effective for us on January
 1, 
2015, and will be fully phased-in on January 1, 2019.   
 Huntington and its subsidiaries are also subject to various regulatory requirements that impose restrictions on cash, debt, and
 dividends. The Bank is required to maintain cash reserves based on the level of certain of its deposits. This reserve requireme
nt may 
be met by holding cash in banking offices or on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank. During 2014 and 2013, the average balances
 of 
these deposits were $0.2 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively.  

 Under current Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank is limited as to the amount and type of loans it may make to the parent 
company and nonbank subsidiaries. At December 31, 2014, the Bank could lend $695.6 million to a single affiliate, subject to th
e qualifying collateral requirements defined in the regulations.  
 Dividends from the Bank are one of the major sources of funds for the Company. These funds aid the Company in the payment of 
dividends to shareholders, expenses, and other obligations. Payment of dividends to the parent company is subject to various le
gal and 
regulatory limitations. During 20
14, the Bank paid dividends of $224 million to 
the holding company.   
Also, there are statutor
y and 
regulatory limitations on the ability of national banks to pay dividends or make other capital distributions. The amount availa
ble for dividend payments to the parent company by Huntington Nati
onal Bank without prior regulatory approval was approximately $339 
million at December 31, 2014. 
    188 
22.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  The parent company financial statements, which include transactions with subsidiaries, are as follows: 
   Balance Sheets 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 
Assets 
   
Cash and cash equivalents  $ 662,768$966,065
Due from The Huntington National Bank  276,851246,841
Due from non-bank subsidiaries  51,12957,747
Investment in The Huntington N
ational Bank  6,073,4085,537,582
Investment in non-bank subsidiaries  509,114587,388
Accrued interest receivable and other assets  279,366286,036
Total assets $ 7,852,636$7,681,659
Liabilities and shareholders' equity    
Long-term borrowings $ 1,046,105$1,034,266
Dividends payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities  478,361557,240
Total liabilities 
 1,524,4661,591,506
Shareholders' equity (1)  6,328,1706,090,153
Total liabilities and shareholders' e
quity $ 7,852,
636$7,681,659
(1) See Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders™ Equity.    
 Statements of Income Year Ended December 31, 

(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 
Income 
      
 Dividends from          
  The Huntington National Bank $244,000 $ ---$---
  Non-bank subsidiaries  27,773  55,473 36,450
 Interest from       
  The Huntington National Bank  3,906  6,598 38,617
  Non-bank subsidiaries  2,613  3,129 5,420
 Other 
 2,994  2,148 1,409
Total income  281,286  67,348 81,896
Expense 
         
 Personnel costs  53,359  52,846 42,745
 Interest on borrowings  17,031  20,739 28,926
 Other 
 52,662  36,728 35,415
Total expense  123,052  110,313 107,086
Income (loss) before income taxes an
d equity in undistributed net income of 
subsidiaries  158,234  (42,965) (25,190)
Provision (benefit) for income tax
es  (62,897) (22,298) (12,565)
Income (loss) before equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries  221,131  (20,667) (12,625)
Increase (decrease) in undistributed net income (loss) of:          

 The Huntington National Bank  414,049  692,392 653,615
 Non-bank subsidiaries 
 (2,788) (30,443) (9,700)
Net income $632,392 $ 641,282$631,290
Other comprehensive income (loss) (1)  (8,283) (63,192) 22,946
Comprehensive income $624,109 $ 578,090$654,236
(1) See Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for other comprehensive income (loss) detail. 
 189 
    
    
Statements of Cash Flows Year Ended December 31,   
(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2012 
Operating activities     
 Net income $632,392 $ 641,282$631,290
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash     
  provided by operating activities:     
   Equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries (411,261) (718,144)(688,149)
   Depreciation and amortization 548  513265
   Other, net 26,685  15,96560,446
Net cash (used for) provided by operating activities 248,364  (60,384)3,852
Investing activities     
 Repayments from subsidiaries 9,250  285,792591,923
 Advances to subsidiaries
 (32,350) (249
,050)(36,126)
 Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash received (13,452) ------
Net cash (used for) provided by investing activities (36,552) 36,742555,797
Financing activities     
 Proceeds from issuance of long-term borrowings ---  400,000---

 Payment of borrowings ---  (50,000)(236,885)
 Dividends paid on stoc
k (198,789) (182,4
76)(169,335)
 Net proceeds from issuance of common stock 2,597  ------
 Repurchases of common stock (334,429) (124,995)(148,881)
 Other, net 
15,512  25,707(1,031)
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities (515,109) 68,236(556,132)
Change in cash and cash equivalents (303,297) 44,5943,517
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 966,065  921,471917,954
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $662,768 $ 966,065$921,471
Supplemental disclosure:     
 Interest paid $21,321 $ 20,739$28,926
 23.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
  BANK OF AMERICA BRANCH ACQUISITION 

 On September 12, 2014, Huntington completed its acquisition and conversion of 24 Bank of America branches, furthering our 
presence in Michigan.  Under the terms of the agreement, 
Huntington acquired approximately $745.2 million of deposits.  The 
deposits were recorded at fair value.  The fair values of deposits were estimated by discounting cash flows using interest rate
s currently being offered on deposits with similar maturities (Level 3). As part of the acquisition, Huntington recorded $17.1 mi
llion of 
goodwill.   
 Pro forma results have not been disclosed, as those amounts are not significant to the audited consolidated financial statement
s.  CAMCO FINANCIAL 
 On March 1, 2014, Huntington completed its acquisition of Camco Financial in a stock and cash transaction valued at $109.5 
million. Camco Financial operated 22 banking offices and served communities in Southeast Ohio. The acquisition provides 
Huntington the opportunity to enhance our presence in several areas within our existing footprint and to expand into a few new 
markets.   
 Under the terms of the merger agreement, Camco Financial shareholders received 0.7264 shares of Huntington common stock, on 
a tax-free basis, or a taxable cash payment of $6.00 for each share of Camco Financial common stock. The aggregate purchase pri
ce was $109.5 million, including $17.8 milli
on of cash and $91.7 million of common stock 
and options to purchase common stock.  Th
e value of the 8.7 million shares issued in 
connection with the merger was determined based on the closing price of Huntington™s 
common stock on February 28, 2014.   
  190 
Under the agreement, Huntington acquired approximately $559
.4 million of loans and $557.4 million of deposits.  Assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at fair value.  The fair values for loans were estimated using discounted cash f
low analyses using interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms (Level 3).  This value was reduced by an est
imate of 
probable losses and the credit risk associated with the loans.  The fair values of deposits were estimated by discounting cash 
flows using interest rates currently being offered on deposits with similar maturities (Level 3). As part of the acquisition, Hunting
ton 
recorded $64.2 million of goodwill, all of which is nondeductible for tax purposes. 
 Pro forma results have not been disclosed, as those amounts are not significant to the audited consolidated financial statement
s.   
 24.  SEGMENT REPORTING 
  Our business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how we monitor results and 
assess performance.  During the 2014 first quarter, we reorganized our business segments to drive our ongoing growth and levera
ge 
the knowledge of our highly experienced team.  We now have five major business segments: Retail and Business Banking, 

Commercial Banking, Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate (AFCRE), Regional Banking and The Huntington Private 
Client Group (RBHPCG), and Home Lending.  The Treasury / Other function includes our technology and operations, other 
unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.  All periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the current 
period 
classification.   Retail and Business Banking: The Retail and Business Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to 
consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, 

certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business loans. Other financial services available to consumer and small bus
iness 
customers include investments, insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange hedging, and treasury management. 
Huntington serves customers primarily thro
ugh our network of branches in
 Ohio, Michigan, Pe
nnsylvania, Indiana
, West Virginia, 
and 
Kentucky. In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, 
telephone banking, and ATMs. 
Huntington has established a ﬁFair Playﬂ banking philosophy and built a reputation for meeting the banking needs of consumers 
in a manner which makes them feel supported and appreciated. Huntington believes customers are recognizing this and other effor
ts as key differentiators and it is earning us more customers, deeper relationships and the J.D. Power retail service excellence awar
d for 
2013 and 2014. 
Business Banking is a dynamic and growing part of our business and we are committed to being the bank of choice for small 
businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as companies with revenues under $20 million and consists of approximate
ly 
160,000 businesses.   Huntington continues to develop products and services that are designed specifically to meet the needs of
 small 
business. Huntington continues to look for ways to help companies find solutions to their financing needs and is the number one
 SBA 
lender in the country.  We have also won the J.D. Power award for small business service excellence in 2012 and 2014.   

 Commercial Banking
: Through a relationship banking model, this segment provides a wide array of products and services to the 
middle market, large corporate, and government public sector customers located primarily within our geographic footprint.  The 

segment is divided into seven business units:  middle market, large corporate, specialty banking, asset finance, capital market
s, treasury management, and insurance.  During the 2014 third quarter, we moved our insurance brokerage business from Treasury / 
Other to Commercial Banking to align with a change in management responsibilities.  During the 2014 fourth quarter, we moved th
e Asset Based Lending group back into the commercial division, and combined management with equipment finance and public capital 
to form the Asset Finance division. 
 Middle Market Banking primarily focuses on providing banking solutions to companies with annual revenues of $20 million to 
$250 million. Through a relationship management approach, various products, capabilities and solutions are seamlessly orchestra
ted in 
a client centric way. 

 Corporate Banking works with larger, often more complex companies with revenues greater than $250 million.  These entities, 
many of which are publically traded, require a different and customized approach to their banking needs.  

 Specialty Banking offers tailored products and services to select industries that have a foothold in the Midwest.  Each banking
 team is comprised of industry experts with a dynamic understanding of the market and industry.  Many of these industries are 
experiencing tremendous change, which creates opportunities for Huntington to leverage our expertise and help clients navigate,
 adapt 
and succeed.   

 Asset Finance division is a combination of our Equipment Finance, Public Capital, Asset Based Lending, and Lender Finance 
divisions that focus on providing financing solutions against these respective asset classes. 

  191 
Capital Markets has two distinct product capabilities: corporate risk management services and institutional sales, trading & 
underwriting. The Capital Markets Group offers a full suite of risk management tools including commodities, foreign exchange an
d interest rate hedging services. The Institutional Sales, Trading & Underwriting team provides access to capital and investment 

solutions for both municipal and corporate institutions. 
 Treasury Management teams help businesses manage their working capital programs and reduce expenses.  Our liquidity 
solutions help customers save and invest wisely, while our payables and receivables capabilities help them manage purchases and
 the 
receipt of payments for good and services.  All of this is provided while helping customers take a sophisticated approach to ma
naging their overhead, inventory, equipment and labor.   

 Insurance brokerage business specializes in commercial property and casualty, employee benefits, personal lines, life and 
disability and specialty lines of insurance. We also provide brokerage and agency services for residential and commercial title
 insurance and excess and surplus product lines of insurance. As an agent and broker we do not assume underwriting risks; instea
d we 
provide our customers with quality, noninvestment insurance contracts. 

 Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
: This segment provides lending and other banking products and services to 
customers outside of our traditional retail and commercial banking segments. Our products and services include providing financ
ing 
for the purchase of vehicles by customers at franchised  automotive dealerships, financing the acquisition of new and used vehi
cle inventory of franchised automotive dealerships, and financing for land, buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or 
constructed by real estate developers, automobile dealerships, or other customers with real estate project financing needs. Pro
ducts and 
services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners. Huntington creates well-de
fined 
relationship plans which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained. 
 The Automotive Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles through these 
franchised dealerships. Huntington has provided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest si
nce 
the early 1950s. This consistency in the market and our focus on working with strong dealerships, has allowed us to expand into
 selected markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships while building a strong reputation.  
 The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured 
by commercial properties.  Most of these customers are located within our footprint. 
 Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group:  
The
 RBHPCG business segment was created as the result of an 
organizational and management realignment th
at occurred in January 2014.  Regional Banki
ng and The Huntington Private Client 
Group is well positioned competitively as we have closely aligned with our eleven regional banking markets.  A fundamental poin
t of differentiation is our commitment to be actively engaged within our local markets - building connections with community and 
business leaders and offering a uniquely personal experience delivered by colleagues working within those markets. 
 The Huntington Private Client Group is organized into units consisting of The Huntington Private Bank, The Huntington Trust, 
The Huntington Investment Company, Huntington Community Development, Huntington Asset Advisors, and Huntington Asset 
Services.  Our private banking, trust, investment and community development functions focus their efforts in our Midwest footpr
int 
and Florida; while our proprietary funds and ETFs, fund administration, custody and settlements functions target a national cli
ent base.   The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options) and
 banking services.   
 The Huntington Trust also serves high net-worth customers and delivers wealth management and legacy planning through 
investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, trust services and trust operations.  This group also provides 
retirement plan services and corporate tr
ust to businesses and municipalities. 
 The Huntington Investment Company, a dually registered broker-dealer and registered investment adviser, employs 
representatives who work with our Retail and Private Bank to provide investment solutions for our customers.  This team offers 
a wide 
range of products and services, including brokerage, annuities, advisory and other investment products.  
 Huntington Community Development focuses on improving the quality of life for our communities and the residents of low-to 
moderate-income neighborhoods by developing and delivering innovative products and services to support affordable housing and 
neighborhood stabilization.   Huntington Asset Advisors provides investment management services solely advising the Huntington Funds, our proprietary 
family of mutual funds and Huntington Strategy Shares, our Exchange Trade Funds. 
  192 
Huntington Asset Services has a national clientele and offers administrative and operational support to fund complexes, includi
ng 
fund accounting, transfer agency, administration, custody, and distribution services.  This group also includes National Settle
ments 
which works with law firms and the court system to provide custody and settlement distribution services. 
 Home Lending
: Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our 
primary banking markets. Consumer and mort
gage lending products are primarily dist
ributed through the Retail and Business Banki
ng segment, as well as through commissioned loan originators.  Home lending earns interest on loans held in the warehouse and port
folio, 
earns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage
 loans.  
Home Lending supports the origination and servicing of mortgage loans across all segments.   
 Listed below is certain financial information reconciled to Huntington™s December 31, 2014, December 31, 2013, and December 31,
 2012, reported results by business segment: 
    Retail &          
Income Statements  Business  Commercial   Home  Treasury /Huntington 
(dollar amounts in
 thousands)  
Banking  Banking AFCRE RBHPCG  Lending  Other Consolidated
2014              
Net interest income $912,992 306,434$379,363$101,839$58,015 $78,498$1,837,141
Provision for credit losses  75,529  
31,521 (52,843) 4,893 21,889  --- 80,989
Noninterest income  409,746  209,238 26,628 173,550 69,899  90,118 979,179
Noninterest expense  982,288  249,300 15
6,715 236,634 136,374  121,035 1,882,346
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes  92,722  82,198 105,742 11,852 (10,622) (61,299) 220,593
Net income (loss) $172,199 $152,653$1
96,377$22,010$(19,727)$108,880$632,392
2013              
Net interest income $902,526 $281,461$366,508$105,862$51,839 $(3,588)$1,704,608
Provision for credit losses  137,97
8  27,464 (82,269) (5,376) 12,249  (1) 90,045
Noninterest income  398,065  200,573 46
,819 186,430 106,006  74,303 1,012,196
Noninterest expense  964,193  254,629 15
6,469 236,895 141,489  4,328 1,758,003
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes  69,447  69,979 118,694 21,271 1,437  (53,354) 227,474
Net income $128,973 $129,962$220,433$39,502$2,670 $119,742$641,282
2012              
Net interest income $941,844 $294,333$369,376$104,329$54,980 $(54,338)$1,710,524
Provision for credit losses  135,102  4,602 (16,557) 6,044 18,198  (1) 147,388
Noninterest income  380,820  197,191 91
,314 181,650 165,189  90,157 1,106,321
Noninterest expense  973,691  248,157 16
0,434 253,901 132,302  67,391 1,835,876
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes  74,855  83,568 110,885 9,112 24,384  (100,513) 202,291
Net income $139,016 $ 155,197$205,928$16,922$45,285 $68,942$631,290
                
  Assets at Deposits at 

 December 31, December 31, 

(dollar amounts in thousands) 
2014 2013 2014 2013 
Retail & Business Banking 
$15,146,857$14,440,869$ 29,350,255$28,293,993
Commercial Banking 
 15,043,477 12,410,339 11,184,566 10,187,891
AFCRE  16,027,910 14,081,112 1,377,921 1,170,518
RBHPCG  3,871,020 3,736,790 6,727,892 6,094,135
Home Lending 
 3,949,247 3,742,527 326,841 329,511
Treasury / Other 
 12,259,499 11,055,537 2,764,676 1,430,670
Total $66,298,010$59,467,174$ 51,732,151$47,506,718
    193 
25.  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
   The following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013: 
   2014  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
Fourth Third Second First  
Interest income $507,625$501,060$ 495,322$472,455 
Interest expense 34,37334,725 35,27434,949 
Net interest income 473,252466,335 460,048437,506 
Provision for credit losses 2,49424,480 29,38524,630 
Noninterest income 233,278247,349 250,067248,485 
Noninterest expense 483,271480,318 458,636460,121 
Income before income taxes 220,765208,886 222,094201,240 
Provision for income taxes 57,15153,870 57,47552,097 
Net income  163,614155,016 164,619149,143 
Dividends on preferred shares 7,9637,964 7,9637,964 
Net income applicable to common shares $155,651$147,052$ 156,656$141,179 
Net income per common share -- Basic $0.19$0.18$ 0.19$0.17 
Net income per common share -- Diluted 0.190.18 0.190.17 
     2013  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) 
Fourth Third Second First  
Interest income $469,824$462,912$ 462,582$465,319 
Interest expense 39,17538,060 37,64541,149 
Net interest income 430,649424,852 424,937424,170 
Provision for credit losses 24,33111,400 24,72229,592 
Noninterest income 249,892253,767 251,919256,618 
Noninterest expense 446,009423,336 445,865442,793 
Income before income taxes 210,201243,883 206,269208,403 
Provision for income taxes 52,02965,047 55,26955,129 
Net income 158,172178,836 151,000153,274 
Dividends on preferred shares 7,9657,967 7,9677,970 
Net income applicable to common shares $150,207$170,869$ 143,033$145,304 
Net income per common share -- Basic $0.18$0.21$ 0.17$0.17 
Net income per common share -- Diluted 0.180.20 0.170.17 
 Item 9: Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the caption Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm in our 2015 Proxy Statement, which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 Item 9A: Controls and Procedures 
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 Huntington maintains disclosure 
controls and procedures designed to ensure that the information required to be disclosed in the
 reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are recorded, processed, summarized, an
d reported within the time periods specified in the Commission™s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, wit
hout 
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports th
at it files or submits under the Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer™s management, including its principal executive and prin
cipal 
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclo
sure. Huntington™s Management, with the participation of its Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the 
effectiveness of Huntington™s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) unde
r the 
Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon such evaluation, Huntington™s Chief Executive Offi
cer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the en
d of such period, Huntington™s disclosure controls and procedures 
were 
effective.  
 194 
 Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 Information required by this item is set forth in Report of Management and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting 
Firm which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) an
d 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2014, to which this report relates, that have materiall
y affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. 
 Item 9B: Other Information 
   Not applicable.
  PART III 
 We refer in Part III of this report to relevant sections of ou
r 2015 Proxy Statement for the 2015 annual meeting of shareholder
s, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days of the close of our 2014 fiscal year. Portions of o
ur 2015 
Proxy Statement, including the sections we refer to in this report, are incorporated by reference into this report. 
 Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the captions Election of Directors, Corporate Governance, Our Executive 
Officers, Board Meetings and Committee Information, Report of the Audit Committee, and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership 

Reporting Compliance of our 2015 Proxy Statement, which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 Item 11: Executive Compensation 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the captions Compensation of Executive Officers of our 2015 Proxy 
Statement, which is incorporated by reference into this item.   
 Item 12:  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the captions Compensation of Executive Officers of our 2015 Proxy 
Statement, which is incorporated by reference into this item.  
 Item 13:  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  Information required by this item is set forth under the captions Indebtedness of Management and Certain other Transactions of 
our 2015 Proxy Statement, which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 Item 14:  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the caption Proposal to Ratify the Appointment of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm of our 2015 Proxy Statement which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
    195 
PART IV 
 Item 15:   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
 (a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 
 (1) The report of independent registered public accounting firm and consolidated financial statements appearing in Item 8. 
 (2)
 Huntington is not filing separate financial statement schedules, because of the absence of conditions under which they are 
required or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.   
 (3)
 The exhibits required by this item are listed in the Exhibit Index of this Form 10-K.  The management contracts and 
compensation plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K are listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 

10.27 in the Exhibit Index.  
 (b)  The exhibits to this Form 10-K
 begin on page 197 of this report. 
 (c)  See Item 15(a)(2) above. 
 196 
Signatures 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
 report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigne
d, thereunto duly authorized, on the 13th day of February, 2015. 
 HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED 
(Registrant)   By:  /s/ Stephen D. Steinour     By:  /s/ Howell D. McCullough III   
   Stephen D. Steinour             Howell D. McCullough III 
 Chairman, President, Chief Executive
        
 Chief Financial Officer
   Officer, and Director (Principal Executive         (Principal Financial Officer) 
 Officer)              
         By:  /s/ David S. Anderson    
                David S. Anderson 
       
      
 Executive Vice President, Controller
                 (Principal Accounting Officer) 

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
 on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 13th day of February, 2015. 

 Don M. Casto III  * 
Jonathan A. Levy  *    
Don M. Casto III Jonathan A. Levy 
Director Director   Ann B. Crane  * 
Eddie R. Munson  *    
Ann B. Crane Eddie R. Munson 
Director Director   Steven G. Elliott  * Richard W. Neu  *    
Steven G. Elliott Richard W. Neu 
Director Director   Michael J. Endres  * 
David L. Porteous  *    
Michael J. Endres David L. Porteous 
Director Director   
John B. Gerlach, Jr.  * 
Kathleen H. Ransier  *    
John B. Gerlach, Jr. Kathleen H. Ransier 

Director Director 
  Peter J. Kight  * 
 Peter J. Kight  

Director    */s/ Richard A. Cheap    
 Richard A. Cheap  
Attorney-in-fact for each of the persons indicated  
    197 
Exhibit Index 
This report incorporates by reference the documents listed below that we have previously filed with the SEC. The SEC allows us 
to incorporate by reference information in this document. The information incorporated by reference is considered to be a part 
of this 
document, except for any information that is superseded by 
information that is included directly in this document. 
 This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 
20549. The SEC also maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information about issuers
, like 
us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is 
http://www.sec.gov
. The reports and other information filed by us 
with the SEC are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site is 
http://www.huntington.com
. Except as specifically 
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You 
also should be able to inspect reports, proxy statements, and other information about us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Marke
t at 
33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York. 
  Exhibit 
Number 
  
Document Description 
 Report or Registration 

Statement 
SEC File or 
Registration 
Number 
 Exhibit 
Reference 
3.1 Articles of Restatement of Charter. Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 

December 31, 1993. 
000-02525 3(i) 
3.2 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated May 31, 2007 
000-02525 3.1 
3.3 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated May 7, 2008 000-02525 3.1 
3.4 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 27, 2010 
001-34073 3.1 
3.5 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of April 22, 2008. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 22, 2008 
000-02525 3.1 
3.6 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of April 22. 2008. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 22, 2008 
000-02525 3.2 
3.7 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of November 12, 2008. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 12, 2008 
001-34073 3.1 
3.8 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of December 31, 2006. 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2006 
000-02525 3.4 
3.9 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of December 28, 2011 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated December 28, 2011 
001-34073 3.1 
3.10 Bylaws of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, as 
amended and restated, as of July 16, 2014. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 17, 2014. 
001-34073 3.1 
4.1 Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders -- 
reference is made to Articles Fifth, Eighth, and Tenth 

of Articles of Restatement of Charter, as amended and 
supplemented. Instruments defining the rights of 
holders of long-term debt will be furnished to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 
   
10.1 * Form of Executive Agreement for certain executive 
officers. 
   
10.2 * Management Incentive Plan for Covered Officers as 
amended and restated effective for plan years 
beginning on or after January 1, 2011. 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2011 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders 
001-34073 A 
10.3 * Huntington Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, 
amended and restated, effective December 31, 2013. 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2013. 
001-34073 10.3 
10.4 * Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Directors Post-Effective Amendment 
No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed 
on January 28, 1991. 
33-10546 4(a) 
10.5 * Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Directors 
Registration Statement on 
Form S-8 filed on July 19, 

1991. 
33-41774 4(a) 
10.6 * First Amendment to Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust 
for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Directors 
Quarterly Report 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 
2001 
000-02525 10(q) 
10.7 * Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended 
and restated on January 1, 2012. 
Annual Report of Form 10-K 
for the year ended December 
31, 2012 
001-34073 10.8 
10.8 * The Huntington Supplemental Stock Purchase and 
Tax Savings Plan and Trust, amended and restated, 
effective January 1, 2014 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2013. 
001-34073 10.8 
10.9 * Form of Employment Agreement between Stephen 
D. Steinour and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
effective December 1, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.1 
 198 
 10.10 * Form of Executive Agreement between Stephen D. 
Steinour and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
effective December 1, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.2 
10.11 * Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice with three year 
vesting Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.1 
10.12 * Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice with six month 
vesting Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.2 
10.13 * Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Agreement Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.3 
10.14 * Director Deferred Stock Award Notice Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.4 
10.15 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2007 Stock 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2007 Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders 
000-02525 G 
10.16 * First Amendment to the 2007 Stock and Long-Term 
Incentive Plan Quarterly report on Form 10-
Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2007 
000-02525 10.7 
10.17 * Second Amendment to the 2007 Stock and Long-
Term Incentive Plan 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2010 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders 
001-34073 A 
10.18 * 2009 Stock Option Grant Notice to Stephen D. 
Steinour. Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.19 * Form of Consolidated 2012 Stock Grant Agreement 
for Executive Officers Pursuant to Huntington™s 2012 
Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. 
001-34073 10.2 
10.20 *Form of 2014 Restricted Stock Unit Grant 
Agreement for Executive Officers 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q dated July 30, 2014 
001-34073 10.1 
10.21 *Form of 2014 Stock Option Grant Agreement for 
Executive Officers Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q dated July 30, 2014 
001-34073 10.2 
10.22 *Form of 2014 Performance Stock Unit Grant 
Agreement for Executive Officers 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q dated July 30, 2014 
001-34073 10.3 
10.23 *Form of 2014 Restricted Stock Unit Grant 
Agreement for Executive Officers Version II 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q dated July 30, 2014 
001-34073 10.4 
10.24 *Form of 2014 Stock Option Grant Agreement for 
Executive Officers Version II Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q dated July 30, 2014 
001-34073 10.5 
10.25 *Form of 2014 Performance Stock Unit Grant 
Agreement for Executive Officers Version II 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q dated July 30, 2014 
001-34073 10.6 
12.1 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 
    
12.2 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred 
Dividends. 
    
14.1 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics dated January 
14, 2003 and revised on January 15, 2013 and 
Financial Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer 
and Senior Financial Officers, adopted January 18, 
2003 and revised on October 15, 2014, are available 
on our website at https://www.huntington.com/us/corp_governance.htm 
    
21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
    
23.1 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
    
24.1 Power of Attorney 
    
31.1 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification Œ Chief Executive 
Officer.     
31.2 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification Œ Chief Financial 
Officer.     
32.1 Section 1350 Certification Œ Chief Executive Officer. 
    
32.2 Section 1350 Certification Œ Chief Financial Officer. 
    
   199 
101 The following material from Huntington™s Form 10-K 
Report for the year ended December 31, 2014, 

formatted in XBRL: (1) Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
(2) Consolidated Statements of Income, (3), 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, 

(4) Consolidated Statements of Changes in 
Shareholders™ Equity, (5) Consolidated Statements of 
Cash Flows, and (6) the Notes to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.   
    
* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan 
or arrangement. 
    
 BOARDOFDIRECTORS
DonM.CastoIII
(1)(4)(5)(7)Principal/ChiefExecutiveOfficer,
CASTO
JoinedBoard:1985
Ann(“Tanny”)B.Crane
(1)(2)PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
CraneGroupCompany

JoinedBoard:2010
StevenG.Elliott
(4)(6)(7)RetiredSeniorViceChairman,
BNYMellon

JoinedBoard:2011
MichaelJ.Endres
(4)(7)Partner,StonehengePartnersLLC

JoinedBoard:2003
JohnB.Gerlach,Jr.
(3)(5)Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
LancasterColonyCorporation

JoinedBoard:1999
PeterJ.Kight
(3)(7)SeniorAdvisor,
ComvestPartners

JoinedBoard:2012
JonathanA.Levy
(4)(6)ManagingPartner,
RedstoneInvestments

JoinedBoard:2007
EddieR.Munson
(1)RetiredManagingPartner,
KPMGLLP,DetroitOffice

JoinedBoard:2014
RichardW.Neu
(1)(2)Chairman,MCGCapitalCorporation

JoinedBoard:2010
DavidL.Porteous
(3)(4)(5)(6)Attorney,McCurdy,Wotila&Porteous,P.C.;

LeadDirector,

HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

JoinedBoard:2003
KathleenH.Ransier
(2)(3)RetiredPartner,
Vorys,Sater,SeymourandPeaseLLP

JoinedBoard:2003
StephenD.Steinour
(4)Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

andTheHuntingtonNationalBank

JoinedBoard:2009
COMMITTEES(1)Audit(2)CommunityDevelopment
(3)Compensation(4)Executive(5)NominatingandCorporateGovernance
(6)RiskOversight
(7)TechnologyCONTACTANDOTHERINFORMATION
SHAREHOLDERCONTACTS
Shareholdersrequestinginformationaboutshare
balances,changeofnameoraddress,lostcertificates,

orothershareholderaccountmattersshouldcontact

theregistrarandtransferagent:
ComputershareInvestorServices
Attn:ShareholderServices

P.O.Box30170

CollegeStation,TX77842-3170

web.queries@computershare.com
(800)725-0674
DIRECTSTOCKPURCHASEANDDIVIDEND
REINVESTMENTPLAN
ComputershareInvestmentPlan(CIP)isadirect
stockpurchaseanddividendreinvestmentplanfor

investorsholdingorwhowishtobecomeholdersof

commonstockofHuntington.TheCIPisofferedand

administeredbyComputershareTrustCompany,

N.A.(Computershare),andnotbyHuntington.Both

registeredshareholdersandnewinvestorsareableto

purchaseHuntingtoncommonsharesthroughthe

CIP.Computershareistheregistrarandtransferagent

forHuntingtoncommonstock.Call(800)725-0674

forinformationtoenrollintheCIP.
DIRECTDEPOSITOFDIVIDENDS
Automaticdirectdepositofquarterlydividendsis
offeredtoourshareholders,atnocharge,and

providessecureandtimelyaccesstotheirfunds.For

furtherinformation,pleasecall(800)725-0674.
SHAREHOLDERINFORMATION
CommonStock:

ThecommonstockofHuntingtonBancshares
IncorporatedistradedontheNASDAQStockMarket

underthesymbol“HBAN.”Thestockislistedas

“HuntgBcshr”or“HuntBanc”inmostnewspapers.

AsofDecember31,2014,Huntingtonhad28,454

shareholdersofrecord.
AnnualMeeting:
The2015AnnualMeetingofShareholdershasbeen
scheduledfor2:00p.m.EDT,Thursday,April23,

2015,atHuntington’sEastonBusinessService

Center,7EastonOval,Columbus,Ohio43219.
InformationRequests:
CopiesofHuntington’sAnnualReport;Forms10-K,
10-Q,and8-K;FinancialCodeofEthics;andquarterly

earningsreleasesmaybeobtained,freeofcharge,by

calling(888)480-3164orbyvisitingHuntington’s

InvestorRelationswebsiteathuntington-ir.com.
ANALYSTANDINVESTORCONTACTS
Analystsandinvestorsseekingfinancialinformation
aboutHuntingtonshouldcontact:
InvestorRelations
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

HuntingtonCenter,HC0935

41SouthHighStreet

Columbus,OH43287

huntington.investor.relations@huntington.com
(614)480-5676
CREDITRATINGS
(1)TheHuntingtonNationalBank
SeniorUnsecuredNotesSubordinatedNotesOutlook
Fitch(2)A-BBB+Stable
Moody’s(3)A3Baa1Stable
S&P(4)BBB+BBBPositive
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated
SeniorUnsecuredNotesSubordinatedNotesOutlook
Fitch(2)A-BBB+Stable
Moody’s(3)Baa1Baa2Stable
S&P(4)BBBBBBPositive
(1)AsofDecember31,2014
(2)FitchRatings,NewYork,NewYork
(3)Moody’sInvestorsService,NewYork,NewYork
(4)Standard&Poor’sCorporation,NewYork,NewYork
CUSTOMERCONTACTS
CorporateHeadquarters
(614)480-8300
MortgageDirect
(800)562-6871
CustomerServiceCenter
(800)480-BANK(2265)
TheHuntingtonTrust
(800)544-8347
BusinessDirect
(800)480-2001
InsuranceServices
(888)576-7900
AutoLoan
(800)445-8460
huntington.com(877)932-2265
TheHuntington
InvestmentCompany
(800)322-4600
RetailShareholderRelations
(800)576-5007
Huntington Bancshares IncorporatedHuntington Center41 South High Street
Columbus, Ohio 43287
(614) 480-8300
huntington.comMember FDIC.        ® and Huntington® are federally registered service marks of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.
Huntington Welcome.
TM is a service mark of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.© 2015 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.03015AR