HUNTINGTON          2013 ANNUAL REPORT2013 ANNUAL REPORT
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporatedisa$59billionregionalbankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinColumbus,
Ohio.TheHuntingtonNationalBank,foundedin1866,anditsaffiliatesprovidefull-servicecommercial,small

business,andconsumerbankingservices;mortgagebankingservices;treasurymanagementandforeign

exchangeservices;equipmentleasing;wealthandinvestmentmanagementservices;trustservices;brokerage

services;customizedinsurancebrokerageandserviceprograms;andotherfinancialproductsandservices.The

principalmarketsfortheseservicesareHuntington’ssix-stateretailbankingfranchise:Ohio,Michigan,

Pennsylvania,Indiana,WestVirginia,andKentucky.Theprimarydistributionchannelsincludeabanking

networkofmorethan700traditionalbranchesandconveniencebrancheslocatedingrocerystoresandretirement

centers,andthroughanarrayofalternativedistributionchannelsincludinginternetandmobilebanking,

telephonebanking,andmorethan1,400ATMs.Throughautomotivedealershiprelationshipswithinitssix-state

retailbankingfranchiseareaandselectedotherMidwestandNewEnglandstates,Huntingtonalsoprovides

commercialbankingservicestotheautomotivedealersandretailautomobilefinancingfordealercustomers.
CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALHIGHLIGHTS
(Inmillions,exceptpershareamounts)
20132012ChangeAmountChangePercentNETINCOME(LOSS)
$638.7
$641.0$(2.3)(0)%
PERCOMMONSHAREAMOUNTS
Netincome(loss)percommonshare–diluted
.....................................$0.72
$0.71$0.011%
Cashdividenddeclaredpercommonshare
........................................0.190.160.0319
Tangiblebookvaluepercommonshare
(1).........................................6.275.780.498
PERFORMANCERATIOS

Returnonaveragetotalassets
..................................................1.13%1.15%(0.02)%
Returnonaveragetangiblecommonshareholders’equity
............................12.713.5(0.8)
Netinterestmargin
(2).........................................................3.363.41(0.05)
Efficiencyratio
(3)............................................................62.963.4(0.5)
CAPITALRATIOS

Tier1risk-basedcapitalratio
(1).................................................12.28%12.02%0.26%
Totalrisk-basedcapitalratio
(1)..................................................14.5714.500.07
Tangibleequity/tangibleassetsratio
(1)(4)(8)
........................................9.499.460.03
Tangiblecommonequity/tangibleassetratio
(1)(5)(8)
.................................8.838.760.07
CREDITQUALITYMEASURES

Netcharge-offs(NCOs)
.......................................................$188.7
$342.5$(153.8)(45)%
NCOsasa%ofaverageloansandleases
.........................................0.45%0.85%(0.40)%
Non-accrualloans(NALs)
(1)...................................................$322.1
$407.6$(85.5)(21)%
NALratio
(1)(6)
..............................................................0.75%1.00%(0.25)%
Non-performingassets(NPAs)
(1)................................................$352.2
$445.8$(93.6)(21)%
NPAratio
(1)(7)
..............................................................0.82%1.09%(0.27)%
Allowanceforcreditlosses(ACL)
(1).............................................$710.8
$809.7$(98.9)(12)%
ACLasa%oftotalloansandleases
(1)...........................................1.65%1.99%(0.34)%
ACLasa%ofNALs
(1).......................................................22119922.0
BALANCESHEET–DECEMBER31,

Totalloansandleases
........................................................$43,120.5$40,728.4$2,392.16%
Totalassets
.................................................................59,476.356,153.23,323.16
Totaldeposits
...............................................................47,506.746,252.71,254.03
Totalshareholders’equity
.....................................................6,099.35,790.2309.15
(1)AtDecember31.
(2)Onafully-taxableequivalent(FTE)basisassuminga35%taxrate.
(3)NoninterestexpenselessamortizationofintangiblesandgoodwillimpairmentdividedbythesumofFTEnetinterestincomeand
noninterestincomeexcludingsecuritieslosses.
(4)Tangibleequity(totalequitylessgoodwillandotherintangibleassets)dividedbytangibleassets(totalassetslessgoodwillandother

intangibleassets).Otherintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxandcalculatedassuminga35%taxrate.
(5)Tangiblecommonequity(totalcommonequitylessgoodwillandotherintangibleassets)dividedbytangibleassets(totalassetsless

goodwillandotherintangibleassets).Otherintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxandcalculatedassuminga35%taxrate.
(6)NALsdividedbytotalloansandleases.
(7)NPAsdividedbythesumoftotalloansandleases,impairedloansheld-for-sale,andnetotherrealestate.
(8)Tangibleequity,tangiblecommonequity,andtangibleassetsarenon-GAAPfinancialmeasures.Additionally,anyratiosutilizingthese

financialmeasuresarealsonon-GAAP.Thesefinancialmeasureshavebeenincludedastheyareconsideredtobecriticalmetricswith

whichtoanalyzeandevaluatefinancialconditionandcapitalstrength.Othercompaniesmaycalculatethesefinancialmeasures

differently.TOFELLOWOWNERSANDFRIENDS:
Iampleasedtoreport2013wasayearofsolidperformanceasthedynamiceffortsofourapproximately
11,000colleaguesallowedtheCompanytoperformatahighleveldespitethechallengingoperating
environment.Theireffortsresultedinareturnonaverageassets(ROA)of1.13%.Lastyearwasthesecond

consecutiveyearthattheROAwaswithinourtargetedrangeof1.10%-1.35%andplacedHuntingtoninthetop

thirdofROAsforthelargest100banksintheUnitedStates.
Forthelastseveralyears,wehavebeenfocusedonexecutingourstrategicplan,whichalongwithour
buildingastrongriskandcreditculture,positionsHuntingtonforconsistentlong-termprofitability,forthethird

yearinarowwithareturnontangiblecommonequityof13%.Deliveringthesesteadyreturnshasallowedthe

Companytocontinuetoexecuteonitscapitalpriorities:(1)Growthecorefranchise.Weincreasedboth

consumerandcommercialrelationshipsbyatleast6%andacceleratedloangrowth.(2)Supportthedividend.We

increasedthedividendby19%whilestayingbelowtheregulators’targeteddividendpayoutratioof30%.(3)All

otheropportunisticuses.Werepurchasedover16millionshares,announcedtheacquisitionofCamcoFinancial,

andredeemed$50millionofveryhighcostpreferredsecurities.Ourcapitallevelsremainstrong,andaswelook

forward,disciplinedcapitalmanagementremainsatoppriority.
Forthelastseveralyears,Ihavebeenwritingaboutsomeofthespecificsaroundthedifficultoperating
environment:interestratesimpactonnetinterestmargin(NIM),ever-increasingregulation,andatepideconomy

deliveringlimitedgrowth.Noneofthosemateriallychangedin2013;ifanything,theoverallenvironment

becamemoredifficultastheprolongedeffectsofgrowingindustrywidecapitallevelschasinglimitedcustomers

resultedinsomebanksmovingawayfromwhatwewouldconsiderdisciplinedstandards.Thecommitmentof

ourcolleagues,combinedwithourFairPlaybankingphilosophy,allowsustotakethisenvironmentandturnit

intoanadvantage.Customers,whetheritisourmorethan1.3millionconsumercheckinghouseholdsor

160thousandcommercialcheckingrelationships,seeourpassionaboutdoingtherightthing,andtimeandtime

again,theytellusthatiswhytheychoseHuntingtonastheirprimaryfinancialrelationship.
Theeconomyatthestartoftheyearwasconsiderablylessvibrantthanwehadhoped.Consumersand
businesseswereunsureabouthowtheactionsinWashingtonD.C.wouldimpactthem,andthatcausedthemto

pause.Atthatpoint,wewerealreadyresizingandchangingthetimingofourinvestments.Itsoonbecameclear

thatifweweretodotherightthingforourshareholders,additionalactionwouldbeneeded.Someofthemore

noticeableactionswetookincludedrefiningthebranchnetworkafterthreeyearsofnetadditionsandrightsizing

themortgagebusinesstoreflectdecliningvolumes.WemadeinvestmentsaroundContinuousImprovement,

whichhasresultedinhundredsofsmallchangesinprocessimprovementthatwillcontinueaswestrivetoreach

allofourlong-termgoals.
Theimprovementsinourefficiencyratio,creditquality,andcapitallevelsdemonstratedhowHuntington
colleagueshaverisentomeetthechallengesofthecurrentbankingenvironment.Letmeofferarecapof2013

performanceandthenourexpectationsfor2014.
Netincomefor2013was$639million,whichwasrelativelyunchangedfromtheprioryear,andearnings
percommonshareincreasedto$0.72,anincreaseof$0.01fromtheprioryear.Fullytaxableequivalenttotal

revenuedecreased$99million,or3%,from2012;noninterestincomedecreased$100million,or9%;andnet

interestincomeincreased$1million,orlessthan1%,sincetheprioryear.
Thenetinterestincomeincreasereflectedtheimpactof4%loangrowth,a5basispointdecreaseinthefully
taxableequivalentnetinterestmargin(NIM)to3.36%,aswellasa7%reductioninotherearningsassets,the

majorityofwhichwereloansheldforsale.
Theloangrowthreflectedanincreaseintwoareasthathavebeensignificantareasoffocusofourstrategic
plan,CommercialandIndustrial(C&I)andautomobileloans.AverageC&Iloansexperiencedlittlechangein
1existingutilizationratesbutsawacceleratinggrowththroughouttheyearwithinmiddlemarkethealthcare,
equipmentfinance,anddealerfloorplanloans.Also,ouraverageautomobileloansincreased,asoriginations

remainedstrongandtheloanswererelativelymoreattractivethansimilardurationsecurities.Decreasingthesize

ofthesecuritiesportfoliothroughthefirstpartoftheyearwasimportant,asweknewupcomingregulatory

changescouldcauseustomakesubstantialchangestoourportfolio.Asexpected,ourCommercialRealEstate

(CRE)portfoliodeclinedandmorerecentlystabilizednear$5billion,lessthanhalfthesizeoftheportfolioin

2009,asneworiginationswerebalancedagainstinternalconcentrationlimits.
Improvingthedepositbaseremainsafocusfortheyear.In2013,averagenoninterestbearingdeposits
increased$0.7billion,or6%.Averageinterest-bearingliabilitiesdecreased$0.3billionfrom2012aswe

continuetoreduceourdependencyonhighercostcertificatesofdepositsandreducecollateralizeddeposits.
Thedecreaseinnoninterestincomeof$100million,or9%,primarilyreflecteda$64million,or34%,
decreaseinmortgagebankingincomeanda$40million,or69%,decreaseingainonsaleofloans.Aswe

expectedgoingintotheyear,mortgagerevenuedeclinedconsiderably,mainlydrivenbya9%reductionin

volume,lowergainonsalemargin,andahigherpercentageoforiginationsheldonthebalancesheet.The

decreaseingainonsaleofloanswasduetoourdecisiontopauseautoloansecuritizationsin2013,after

completingtwosecuritizationsin2012.Theenvironmentbecamesuchthatitwasmoreattractivetoholdthese

highqualityloansinsteadofsecuritizingtheloansandreinvestingtheproceedsintolongerdurationorlower

yieldingsecurities.Anumberofothersmallerdeclinesinotherincomeandsecuritygainswereoffsetbya$10

millionincreaseinbothservicechargesandelectronicbanking,reflecting8%consumerhouseholdand6%

commercialrelationshipgrowth.Thefactthatwecontinuetogrowcustomerrelationshipsseveraltimesfaster

thanthepopulationgrowthofourregiondemonstratesthatourapproachtobankingtrulyresonateswiththose

thatliveinourcommunities.
Noninterestexpensedecreased$78million,or4%,fromtheprioryear.Whenadjustingforthenet$10
millionofSignificantItemsdiscussedintheattachedSECForm10-K,noninterestexpensedecreased$68

million.Thedecreasewasprimarilyduetolowermarketing,depositandotherinsurance,professionalservices

andotherexpenseasweactivelymanagedthepaceandsizeofinvestment.Otherexpensedeclinedastheresult

oflowermortgagerepurchaseandwarranty,andOREOandforeclosureexpenses.
Weremaindiligentwithrespecttomaintainingouraggregatemoderate-to-lowriskprofile.Wecontinueto
investinourriskandcreditinfrastructure,andforthethirdyearinarow,wereducednonaccrualloansbyatleast

20%,whilefinishingtheyearwithourprovisionforcreditlossesatthelowendofourlong-termexpectedrange.

Netcharge-offsdecreased$154million,or45%,fromtheprioryear.Thiswasanannualized0.45%ofaverage

loansandleasesandcompareswelltoourlong-termexpectedrangeof0.35%to0.55%.
Ourcapitallevelscontinuedtoincreaseinthewakeofthecurrentregulatoryrulesforbanksover$50billion
inassets.Wefocusedmostintentlyontworatios:tangiblecommonequitytotangibleassetsratioandTier1

commonrisk-basedcapitalratio.ByDecember31,2013,theywere8.83%and10.90%,respectively.
ThefulldetailofourfinancialperformancecanbefoundorisoutlinedintheManagementDiscussionand
AnalysissectionfoundlaterintheattachedSECForm10-K.Pleasetaketheopportunitytoreadthis.Itprovides

additionalinsightandcommentaryrelatedtoour2013financialperformance.
Turningto2014expectations,welookforwardtoanotheryearofsolidfinancialperformancebuiltaround
oursuccessfulstrategiesandfocusedexecution.Althoughweagainexpecttofacecontinuedheadwindsfromlow

short-terminterestratesandtheregulatoryenvironment,aswellasagrowingalbeitfragileeconomy,webelieve

ourbusinessmodelwillcontinuetoovercomethesechallengesanddeliversolidperformance.
Netinterestincomeisexpectedtomoderatelyincrease.Weanticipateanincreaseinearningassetsastotal
loansmoderatelygrowandinvestmentsecuritiesremainnearcurrentlevels.However,thosebenefitsare

expectedtobemostlyoffsetbycontinueddownwardpressureonNIM.Whilewearemaintainingadisciplined
2approachtoloanpricing,assetyieldsremainunderpressure,butthecontinuedopportunityofdepositrepricing
remains,albeitclosertocurrentlevels.
TheC&Iportfolioisexpectedtogrowconsistentwiththeanticipatedincreaseincustomeractivity.Our
C&Iloanpipelineremainsrobustwithmuchofthisreflectingthepositiveimpactfromourinvestmentsin

specializedcommercialverticals,automotivedealerrelationships,focusedOCRsalesprocess,andcontinued

supportofmiddlemarketandsmallbusinesslending.Automobileloanoriginationsremainstrong,andwe

currentlydonotanticipateanyautomobilesecuritizationsinthenearfuture.Residentialmortgages,homeequity,

andCREloanbalancesareexpectedtoincreasemodestly.
Noninterestincome,excludingtheimpactofanynetMSRactivity,isexpectedtobeslightlylowerthanrecent
levels,whilenoninterestexpense,excludingthenet$10millionofbenefitfromSignificantItemsweexperiencedin

2013,isexpectedtoremainaroundcurrentlevels.Wearecommittedtodeliveringpositiveoperatingleverageaswe

managetheneedtoinvestwithallowingourpreviousinvestmentsenoughtimetomature.
Generalcredittrends,includingnonperformingassets,areexpectedtoshowcontinuedimprovement.This
year,NCOswereatthemid-pointofourexpectednormalizedrangeof35to55basispoints.Thelevelofprovision

forcreditlosseswasbelowourlong-termexpectation,andwecontinuetoexpectmoderatequarterlyvolatility.
Wearecommittedtodeliveringlong-termvaluetoourshareholders.AtHuntington,webelievethat“doing
therightthing”forourshareholders,colleagues,customers,andcommunitiesisthepathtodevelopingarobust

franchisethatcanproducethestablereturnsneededtocreatelong-termvalue.TheBoardhasbeeninstrumental

indevelopingthisbalance,aswellascontinuingtochallengehowwemaintainitinthisenvironment.Ithank

themfortheirtremendousdedicationandcounsel.
InadditiontothepersonalprideIhaveforwhattheHuntingtonteamhasaccomplishedoverthelastseveral
yearsforourshareholders,Iamespeciallyproudofourcolleaguesfortheirdeepcommitmenttoour

communitiesandtheirownpersonalwellness.Pelotonia,theannualbiketourthatraisesfundsfortheJames

CancerHospitalandSoloveResearchInstitute,continuestobearallyingpointforHuntington’scolleaguesand

ourcommunities.Sincetheinauguraleventin2009,wehaveraised$9milliontowardscuringcancer,andin

2013,morethan1,700ofourapproximately11,000colleaguesrodeinorvolunteeredfortheevent.
Weenter2014astrongercompany.Theinvestmentswehavemadecontinuetogainmomentum.Thiswill
beanotherchallengingyearastheeconomyappearstobeimproving,butgrowthisbelowlong-termtrends.

Additionally,weexpecttheFederalReserveBoardtokeepshort-terminterestrateslowforsometime.Weare

confidentinourstrategiesandresolvetocontinuedeliveringstrongfinancialresults.Wethankyou—our

shareholders,customers,andcolleagues—foryourcontinuedsupport.
StephenD.Steinour

Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer

March3,2014
3COMMONSTOCKANDDIVIDENDINFORMATION
2014DIVIDENDPAYABLEDATES
QUARTERPAYABLEDATE
1stApril1,2014
2ndJuly1,2014*
3rdOctober1,2014*
4thJanuary2,2015*
*SubjecttoactionbyBoardofDirectors
2013CASHDIVIDENDDECLAREDDATA
QUARTERRECORDDATEPAYABLEDATE
PERCOMMON
SHAREAMOUNT
1stMarch18,2013April1,2013
$0.042ndJune17,2013July1,2013
0.053rdSeptember17,2013October1,2013
0.054thDecember19,2013January2,2014
0.05COMMONSTOCKPRICE
201320122011201020092008High$9.73$7.25$7.70$7.40$8.00$14.87
Low6.485.494.463.651.004.37
Close9.656.395.496.873.657.66
20-YEARDIVIDENDHISTORY
CASHDIVIDENDSDECLARED(1)STOCKDIVIDENDS/SPLITSDISTRIBUTIONDATEOFSTOCK
DIVIDEND/SPLIT1994$0.43
5/4StockSplit07/29/94
19950.485%StockDividend07/31/95

19960.5210%StockDividend07/31/96

19970.5710%StockDividend07/31/97

19980.6310%StockDividend07/31/98

19990.6910%StockDividend07/30/99

20000.7610%StockDividend07/31/00

20010.72——

20020.64——

20030.67——
CASHDIVIDENDSDECLARED(1)STOCKDIVIDENDS/SPLITSDISTRIBUTIONDATEOFSTOCK
DIVIDEND/SPLIT2004$0.75
——20050.85
——20061.00
——20071.06
——20080.66
——20090.04
——20100.04
——20110.10
——20120.16
——20130.19
——(1)Restatedforstockdividendsandstocksplitsasapplicable.
FORWARD-LOOKINGSTATEMENTDISCLOSURE
Thisreport,includingthelettertoshareholders,containscertainforward-lookingstatements,includingcertain
plans,expectations,goals,projections,andstatements,whicharesubjecttonumerousassumptions,risks,and

uncertainties.Statementsthatdonotdescribehistoricalorcurrentfacts,includingstatementsaboutbeliefsand

expectations,areforward-lookingstatements.Theforward-lookingstatementsareintendedtobesubjecttothe

safeharborprovidedbySection27AoftheSecuritiesActof1933,Section21EoftheSecuritiesExchangeAct

of1934,andthePrivateSecuritiesLitigationReformActof1995.Actualresultscoulddiffermateriallyfrom

thosecontainedorimpliedbysuchstatementsforavarietyoffactors.PleaserefertoItem1A“RiskFactors”and

the“AdditionalDisclosure”sectionsinHuntington’sForm10-KfortheyearendingDecember31,2013,for

additionalinformation.Allforward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandarebasedon

informationavailableatthattime.Weassumenoobligationtoupdateforward-lookingstatements.Asforward-

lookingstatementsinvolvesignificantrisksanduncertainties,cautionshouldbeexercisedagainstplacingundue

relianceonsuchstatements.
1  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EX
CHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
 FORM 10-K   (Mark One) 
[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 
 or 
    [
   
] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
 15(d) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934 
 Commission File Number 
1-34073
  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Exact name of registrant 
as specified in its charter) 
Maryland 31-0724920 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
 organization)(I.R.S. Empl
oyer Identification No.)
 41 S. High Street, Columbus, Ohio 43287 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(614) 480-8300 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   
 Title of class         Name of exchange on which registered 
8.50% Series A non-voting, perpetual convertible preferred stock     NASDAQ 
 Common Stock - Par Value $0.01 per Share        NASDAQ 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
Title of class 
Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
 Depositary Shares (each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred 
Stock)  
   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known season
ed issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Exchange Ac
t.  [X] Yes   [   ] No 
  Indicate by check mark if the regi
strant is not required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  [   ] Ye
s   [X] No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
 (1) has filed all reports required to be
 filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Sec
urities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
 months (or for such shorter period that 
the registrant was required to file such r
eports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
 for the past 90 days.   [X] Yes   [   ] No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registra
nt has submitted electronically and posted 
on its corporate Web site, if any, every
 Interactive Data File required to be submitte
d and posted pursuant to 
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§
232.405 of this
 chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registra
nt was required to submit and post such files).   [X] Yes   [ 
  ] No 
  Indicate by check mark if disclo
sure of delinquent filers pursua
nt to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and 
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in de
finitive proxy or information statements incorporated by referenc
e in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendmen
t to this Form 10-K.   [ X ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or 
a smaller 
reporting company. See definition of ﬁlarge accelerated filerﬂ, ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ, and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12
b-2 of 
the Exchange Act. (Check one): 

  Large accelerated filer [X]       Accelerated filer [   ] 
 2   Non-accelerated filer [   ]  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  Smaller reporting company [   ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registra
nt is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act) [   ]Yes   [X]No 
  The aggregate market value of voting and no
n-voting common equity held 
by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2013
, determined by using a per share closing pric
e of $7.87, as quoted by NASDAQ on that date, was $6,352,754,308.  As of January 31
, 2014, there were 831,214,839 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 outstanding. 
 Documents Incorporated By Reference 
   Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain 
information from the registrant's 
definitive Proxy Statement for 
the 2014 Annual Shareholders' Meeting. 
3  HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
INDEX 
Part I.     Item 1. 
Business 
7  Item 1A. 
Risk Factors 
16  Item 1B. 
Unresolved Staff Comments 
21  Item 2. 
Properties 21  Item 3. 
Legal Proceedings 
22  Item 4.   
Mine Safety Disclosures 
22Part II.   Item 5. 
Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related Shar
eholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities 22  Item 6.   
Selected Financial Data 
24  Item 7. 
Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Fi
nancial Condition and Re
sults of Operations 
25    Introduction 25    Executive Overview 
26    Discussion of Results of Operations 
30    Risk Management and Capital: 
    Credit Risk 40    Market Risk 56    Liquidity Risk 
58    Operational Risk 64    Compliance Risk 
65    Capital 66    Business Segment Discussion 
68    Additional Disclosures 87  Item 7A. 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclo
sures About Market Risk 92  Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
92  Item 9. 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
190
  Item 9A. 
Controls and Procedures 
190
  Item 9B. 
Other Information 
190
Part III.   Item 10. 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
190
  Item 11. 
Executive Compensation 
190
  Item 12. 
Security Ownership of Certain Be
neficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters 
191
  Item 13.  
Certain Relationships and Related Tran
sactions, and Director Independence 
191
  Item 14. 
Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
191
Part IV.
   Item 15.  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
191
 Signatures
 192
4  Glossary of Acronyms and Terms 
 The following listing provides a comprehensive reference of common acronyms and terms used throughout the document: 
 ABL   Asset Based Lending 
ACL 
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
AFCRE   Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
AFS 
  Available-for-Sale 
ALCO 
  Asset-Liability Management Committee 
ALLL 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
ARM   Adjustable Rate Mortgage ASC   Accounting Standards Codification 
ASU 
  Accounting Standards Update 
ATM 
  Automated Teller Machine 
AULC 
  Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments 
AVM 
  Automated Valuation Methodology 
Basel III   Refers to the final rule issued by the FRB and OCC and published in the Federal Register on 
October 11, 2013 
BHC   Bank Holding Companies 
C&I 
  Commercial and Industrial 
CapPR   Federal Reserve Board's Capital Plan Review 
CCAR   Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
CDO   Collateralized Debt Obligations 
CDs   Certificate of Deposit CFPB   Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
CMO   Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 
CRE   Commercial Real Estate 
Dodd-Frank Act   Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
EPS 
  Earnings Per Share 
ERISA 
  Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
EVE 
  Economic Value of Equity 
Fannie Mae   (see FNMA) 
FASB 
  Financial Accounting Standards Board FDIC 
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA 
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 
FHA 
  Federal Housing Administration 
FHFA 
  Federal Housing Finance Agency FHLB 
  Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC 
  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICA 
  Federal Insurance Contributions Act 
FICO 
  Fair Isaac Corporation 
FNMA 
  Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB   Federal Reserve Bank 
Freddie Mac 
  (see FHLMC) 
FTE 
  Fully-Taxable Equivalent FTP 
  Funds Transfer Pricing GAAP 
  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America 
HAMP 
  Home Affordable Modification Program 
5  HARP 
  Home Affordable Refinance Program 
HTM 
  Held-to-Maturity 
IRC   Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended 
IRS   Internal Revenue Service 
ISE 
  Interest Sensitive Earnings 
LCR   Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
LIBOR 
  London Interbank Offered Rate 
LGD 
  Loss-Given-Default LTV 
  Loan to Value 
MD&A 
  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
MSA 
  Metropolitan Statistical Area 
MSR 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
NALs 
  Nonaccrual Loans 
NAV 
  Net Asset Value 
NCO   Net Charge-off NIM 
  Net interest margin 
NCUA   National Credit Union Administration 
NPAs 
  Nonperforming Assets 
NPR   Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
N.R. 
  Not relevant. Denominator of calculation is a gain in the current period compared with a loss in 
the prior period, or vice-versa NSF / OD 
  Nonsufficient Funds and Overdraf
t OCC   Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
OCI   Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
OCR   Optimal Customer Relationship   
OLEM 
  Other Loans Especially Mentioned 
OREO 
  Other Real Estate Owned 
OTTI 
  Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PD   Probability-Of-Default 
Plan   Huntington Bancshares Retirement Plan 
Problem Loans 
  Includes nonaccrual loans and leases (Table 13), troubled debt restructured loans (Table 15), and 
accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more (Table 14) 
REIT   Real Estate Investment Trust 
Reg E   Regulation E, of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act ROC   Risk Oversight Committee 
SAD 
  Special Assets Division 
SBA   Small Business Administration 
SEC 
  Securities and Exchange Commission 
SERP 
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 
Sky Financial 
  Sky Financial Group, Inc. 
SRIP 
  Supplemental Retirement Income Plan 
TARP 
  Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TARP Capital 
  Series B Preferred Stock, repurchased in 2010 
TCE 
  Tangible Common Equity 
TDR 
  Troubled Debt Restructured loan 
TLGP 
  Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 
U.S. Treasury 
  U.S. Department of the Treasury 
UCS   Uniform Classification System 
6  UPB   Unpaid Principal Balance 
USDA 
  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
VA 
  U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs 
VIE 
  Variable Interest Entity 
WGH 
  Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending 
7  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
PART I 
When we refer to ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁour,ﬂ and ﬁusﬂ in this report, we 
mean Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and our consolidated 
subsidiaries, unless the context indicates that we refer only to th
e parent company, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.  When 
we refer to the ﬁBankﬂ in this report, we 
mean our only bank subsidiary, The Huntin
gton National Bank, and its subsidiaries. 
 Item 1: Business  
We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding compan
y organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in 
Columbus, Ohio.  We have 11,964 average fu
ll-time equivalent employees.  Through th
e Bank, we have 148 years of serving the 
financial needs of our customers.  We provide full-service comme
rcial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage bank
ing 
services, automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment ma
nagement, trust services, brokerage services, insurance program
s, and other financial products and services.  The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2013, the
 Bank 
had 16 wealth management offices and 695 branches as follows: 
Ł 403 branches in Ohio  Ł 45 branches in Indiana 
Ł 155 branches in Michigan  Ł 30 branches in West Virginia 
Ł 51 branches in Pennsylvania 
  Ł 11 branches in Kentucky 
Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in 
various other states.  International banking services are 
available through the headqu
arters office in Columbus, Ohio, a limited purpose 
office located in the Cayman Islands, and anothe
r located in Hong Kong.  Our foreign ba
nking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant.   
 Our business segments ar
e based on our internally-aligned se
gment leadership structu
re, which is how we 
monitor results and 
assess performance.  For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional 
service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue 
and earnings growth.  Our business model emphasizes the delive
ry of 
a complete set of banking products and serv
ices offered by larger banks, but distingu
ished by local delivery and customer servi
ce.   
 A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to op
erate in cooperation to provid
e products and services to our 
customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships 
using our OCR sales and service process.  The objectives of O
CR are to: 
 1. Provide a consultative sales appro
ach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer. 
2. Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers. 
3. Target prospects who may want to ha
ve multiple products and services as part
 of their relationship with us. 
Following is a description of our four busin
ess segments and Treasury / Other function: 
 Retail and Business Banking Œ This segment provides a wide array of fi
nancial products and services to consumer and 
small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, 
certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business lo
ans and leases.  Other financial services available to 
consumer and small business customers include investments, in
surance services, interest rate risk protection products, 
foreign exchange hedging, and treasury management services
.  We serve customers primarily through our network of 
traditional branches in Ohio, Michigan, 
Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, an
d Kentucky.  We also have branches 
located in grocery stores in Ohio and Michigan.  In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access 

Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking, and ATMs.   
We established a ﬁFair Playﬂ banking 
philosophy and built a reputation for meeting the 
banking needs of consumers 
in a manner which makes them feel sup
ported and appreciated.  We believe customers are recognizing this and other 
efforts as key differentiators and it is earning 
us more customers and deeper relationships.  
Business Banking is a dynamic and grow
ing part of our business and we are 
committed to being the bank of choice 
for small businesses in our markets. Business Banking is define
d as companies with revenu
es up to $25 million and 
consists of approximately 163,000 businesses.  We contin
ue to develop products and services that are designed 
specifically to meet the needs of small business.  We continue to lo
ok for ways to help compan
ies find solutions to their 
capital needs.   
8   Regional and Commercial Banking
 Œ This segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle 
market and large corporate customers located primarily 
within our eleven regional 
commercial banking markets.  
Products and services are delivered through a relationship banking model and include commercial lending, as well as 
depository and liquidity management pr
oducts.  Dedicated teams collaborate w
ith our relationship bankers to deliver 
complex and customized treasury management solutions, 
equipment leasing, international services, capital markets 
services such as interest rate risk prot
ection products, foreign exchange hedging
 and sales, trading of securities, and 
employee benefit programs (insuran
ce, 401(k)).  The Commercial Banking team specializes in serving a number of 
industry segments such as 
not-for-profit organizations, health-care entities, and large 
publicly-traded companies.   
 Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
 Œ This segment provides lending and other banking products and 
services to customers outside of our normal retail and comme
rcial banking segments.  Our products and services include 
financing for the purchase of automobiles by customers at 
automotive dealerships, financ
ing the acquisition of new and 
used vehicle inventory of automotive d
ealerships, and financing for land, build
ings, and other commercial real estate 
owned or constructed by real estate developers, automobile
 dealerships, or other customers with real estate project 
financing needs.  Products and services are delivered th
rough highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and 
product partners.  Huntington creates 
well-defined relationship plans which iden
tify needs where solutions are developed 
and customer commitments are obtained.   
The Automotive Finance team se
rvices automobile dealerships, its owne
rs, and consumers buying automobiles 
through these dealerships. Huntington ha
s provided new and used automobile fi
nancing and dealer 
services throughout 
the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in the 
market and our focus on working with strong dealerships, has 
allowed us to expand into selected markets
 outside of the Midwest and to activel
y deepen relationships while building a 
strong reputation.  
The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that 
are secured by commercial properties.  Most of our customers are located within our footprint. 
 Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending
 Œ This segment consists of our wealth management, 
government banking, and home lending businesses. In wealth 
management, Huntington provides financial services to 
high net worth clients in our primary 
banking markets and Florida. Huntington 
provides these services through a unified 
sales team, which consists of private bankers, trust officers, 
and investment advisors. Aligned with the eleven regional 
commercial banking markets, this coordinated service model de
livers products and services directly and through the 
other segment product partners.  A fundamental point of diff
erentiation is our commitment to
 be in the market, working 
closely with clients and their other advisors to identify need
s, offer solutions and provide ongoing advice in an optimal 
client experience. The Government Finance Group provides financial product
s and services to government and other public sector 
entities in our primary banking markets. A locally based team of 
relationship managers works with clients to meet their 
trust, lending, and treasury management needs.  Closel
y aligned, our Community Development group serves an 
important role as it focuses on delivering on our commitment to the communities Huntington serves. 
Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in 
our primary banking markets. Consumer a
nd mortgage lending products are primar
ily distributed through the Retail and 
Business Banking segment, as well as th
rough commissioned loan originators.  
The segment also includes the related businesses of 
investment management, inve
stment servicing, custody, 
corporate trust, and retirement plan services. Huntington 
Asset Advisors provides investment management services 
through a variety of internal and external channels, including advising the Huntington Funds
, our proprietary family of 
mutual funds and Huntington Strategy Shares, our actively-
managed exchange-traded funds.  Huntington Asset Services 
offers administrative and operational support to fund complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, 

administration, and distributio
n services.  Our retirement plan services business offers fully bundled and third party 
distribution of a variety of qualified and non-qualified plan solutions. 
Treasury / Other function includes our in
surance brokerage business, which specializes in commercial property and casualty, 
employee benefits, pers
onal lines, life and disability and specialty lines of
 insurance.  We also prov
ide brokerage and agency 
services for residential and commercial title in
surance and excess and surplus product lines of insurance.  As an agent and broker we do
 not 
assume underwriting risks; instead we provide our customers with
 quality, noninvestment insurance contracts.  The Treasury / Ot
her function also includes technology and operations, other 
unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. 
  9  The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A.  We recently announced a reorganization among our executive 
leadership team, which will b
ecome effective during the 2014 first quarter.  
As a result, management is
 currently evaluating th
e business segment structure which will impact how we mo
nitor future results and assess performance.   
Competition 
We compete with other banks and financial services companies such
 as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust 
companies, as well as mortgage banking co
mpanies, automobile and equipment financi
ng companies (including captive automobile 
finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment
 advisors, and brokerage firms, 
both within and outside of our
 primary market areas.  Internet companies are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borro
wers, 
depositors, and other customers.   
We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of va
lue and service by building cust
omer relationships as a resul
t of addressing our customers™ entire suite of banking needs, dem
onstrating expertise, and providin
g convenience to our customers
.  We 
also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets. 
We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combinatio
n of value and service and by pr
oviding convenience through a 
banking network of branches and ATMs within
 our markets and our website at www.hunti
ngton.com.  We have also instituted 
customer friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace
® account feature, which gives customer
s an additional business day to cover 
overdrafts to their consumer account without being charged overdraft fees.  
The table below shows our comp
etitive ranking and market share ba
sed on deposits of FDIC-insure
d institutions as of June 30, 
2013, in the top 10 metropolitan statisti
cal areas (MSA) in which we compete: 
 MSA Rank 
Deposits (in 
millions) Market Share 
Columbus, OH 1 $14,436  28% 
Detroit, MI 7 4,478 5 

Cleveland, OH 4 4,261 8 

Indianapolis, IN 4 2,859 8 

Pittsburgh, PA 8 2,512 3 

Cincinnati, OH 4 2,109 3 

Youngstown, OH 1 2,082 23 

Toledo, OH 2 2,045 22 

Grand Rapids, MI 3 1,855 11 

Canton, OH 2 1,494 25 
 Source: FDIC.gov
, based on June 30, 2013 survey. 
Many of our nonfinancial institution competito
rs have fewer regulatory constraints, 
broader geographic service areas, greater 
capital, and, in some cases, lower cost 
structures.  In addition, competition for quality
 customers has intensified as a result
 of changes 
in regulation, advances in technology and product delivery systems, consolida
tion among financial service providers, bank failu
res, and the conversion of certain former invest
ment banks to bank holding companies. 
Regulatory Matters  
We are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Federal Reserve,
 the OCC, the CFPB, and other federal and state regulators. 
Because we are a public company, we are subject to regulation by the SEC.  The SEC has established five categories of issuers f
or 
the purpose of filing periodic and annual reports.  Under these regulations, we are considered to be a large accelerated filer 
and, as such, must comply with SEC accelerated reporting requirements.  
10 
 We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial 
holding company with the Federal Reserve.  We are subject to 
examination and supervision by the Federal Rese
rve pursuant to the Bank Ho
lding Company Act. We are 
required to file reports an
d other information regarding our 
business operations and the business operations of our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve. 
The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating syst
em that emphasizes risk management, introduces a framework 
for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a framework for assessing and rating the potential impact of non-depos
itory entities of a holding company on
 its subsidiary depository ins
titution(s).  The ratings assigned to us, like those assigned to 
other 
financial institutions, are confidential and may not be disclosed, except to the extent required by law. 
The Federal Reserve utilizes an updated fr
amework for the consolidated supervision of 
large financial institutions, including b
ank 
holding companies with consolidated
 assets of $50 billion or more.  The objectiv
es of the framework are to enhance the resilien
ce of a 
firm, lower the probability of its
 failure, and reduce the impact on the financial 
system in the event 
of an institution™s failure. With regard to resiliency, each firm is
 expected to ensure that the co
nsolidated organization and its core business lines can surviv
e under a 
broad range of internal or external stre
sses.  This requires financial resilience 
by maintaining sufficient capital and liquidi
ty, and operational resilience by maintaining effective
 corporate governance, risk management, 
and recovery planning. With respect to 
lowering the probability of failure, each firm is expected to ensure the sustainability of its critical operations and banking 
offices under 
a broad range of internal or external st
resses.  This requires, among other things, 
effective resolution planning that addresse
s the 
complexity and the interconnectivity 
of the firm™s operations.   
The Bank, which is chartered by the OCC, is a national bank 
and our only bank subsidiary.  It
 is subject to examination and 
supervision by the OCC and also by the CFP
B, which was established by the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010.  Our nonbank subsidiaries are
 also subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve or, in the case of nonbank subs
idiaries of the Bank, by the 
OCC.  All subsidiaries are subject to examination and 
supervision by the CFPB to the extent they offer any consumer financial product
s or services.  Our subsidiaries are subject to examination by other federal and state agencies, including, in the case of certain s
ecurities and investment management activities, regulation by the 
SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.   
The Bank is subject to affiliate transaction restrictions unde
r federal law, which limit certain tr
ansactions generally involvi
ng the 
transfer of funds by a bank or its subsidiaries to its parent corporation or any nonbank subsidiary of its parent corporation, 
whether in 
the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset 
purchases, or otherwise undertak
ing certain obligations on behal
f of such 
affiliates.  See also the Volcker Rule discussion belo
w for additional affiliate transaction restrictions. 
Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have signific
ant impacts throughout the fi
nancial services industry.   
The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in 2010, is 
complex and broad in scope and several of its
 provisions are still being implemented.  
The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, which has extensive regul
atory and enforcement powers over consumer financial products
 and services, and the Financial 
Stability Oversight Council, which has oversight authority for m
onitoring and regulating system
ic risk.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act altered the auth
ority and duties of the federal bank
ing and securities regulatory agencies, implemented certain corporate governance re
quirements for all public companies includi
ng financial institutions with regard to 
executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders, and certain whistleblower provisions, and restricted certain proprietary 
trading 
and hedge fund and private 
equity activities of banks and their affiliates.  The Do
dd-Frank Act also requir
ed the issuance of n
umerous 
implementing regulations, many of which have 
not yet been issued.  The regulations will continue to take effect over several mo
re years, continuing to make it difficult to anticipate the overall impact to us, our customers, or th
e financial industry in general.   
In mid-January 2013, the CFPB issued eight final regulations governing mainly consum
er mortgage lending. The first of these 
rules was issued on January 10, 
2013, and included the ability to repay and qualif
ied mortgage rule.  This rule imposes additio
nal requirements on lenders, including rules designed to require lenders to ensure borrowe
rs™ ability to repay their mortgage and t
ook 
effect January 10, 2014.  The same day, the CFPB also finalized a 
rule on escrow accounts for high
er priced mortgage loans and 
a rule 
expanding the scope of the high-cost mortgage provision in the Trut
h in Lending Act.  On January 17, 2013, the CFPB issued its 
final 
rules implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that relate to mo
rtgage servicing, which  took effect on January 10, 2014. 
 On 
January 18, 2013, the CFPB issued a final 
appraisal rule under the Equal Credit Opport
unity Act and six agencies including the 
CFPB, 
FRB, OCC, FDIC, NCUA, and FHFA issued an interagency rule on ap
praisals for higher-priced mortgage loans.  On November 20, 
2013, the CFPB issued its final rule on in
tegrated mortgage disclosures 
under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Sett
lement 
Procedures Act, for which compliance is required by August 1, 201
5.  We are evaluating these integrated mortgage disclosure rul
es to 
determine their impact on the Bank and its affiliates.   
During the 2013 first quarter, the CFPB 
provided guidance on fair lending pra
ctices to indirect automobile lenders with 
recommendations to ensure compliance with fair lending laws. 
  11 
 Recently, banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used a general consumer protection statute to address unethical or 
otherwise bad business practices that may not necessarily fall dir
ectly under the purview of a specific banking or consumer fin
ance 
law.  Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, there was little formal guida
nce to provide insight to the 
parameters for compliance with th
e ﬁunfair or deceptive acts or practicesﬂ (UDAP) law.  However, 
the UDAP provisions have been expanded under the Dodd-Frank Act 
to apply to ﬁunfair, deceptive or abusiv
e acts or practicesﬂ, which has been dele
gated to the CFPB for supervision.   
 Large bank holding companies and national banks are required to
 submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve and OCC, 
respectively and conduct stress tests. 
 The Federal Reserve published final amendmen
ts to Regulation Y to require large bank
 holding companies to submit capital plans 
to the Federal Reserve on an an
nual basis and to require such 
bank holding companies to obtain
 approval from the Federal Reserv
e under certain circumstances before making a capital distribution.  Th
is rule applies to us and all 
other bank holding companies
 with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets.   
 A large bank holding company™s capital plan must include an as
sessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over at leas
t the next nine quarters, a description of all planned capital acti
ons over the planning horizon, 
a detailed description of the e
ntity™s process for assessing capital adequacy, the entity™s capital policy, 
and a discussion of any exp
ected changes to the banking ho
lding 
company™s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the firm™s capital adequacy or liquidity.  The planning ho
rizon for 
the most recent capital planning and stress testing cycle encompasses the 2013 fourth quarter through the 2015 fourth quarter a
s was submitted in our capital plan in January 2014
.  Rules to implement the Basel III cap
ital reforms in the United States were fina
lized in 
July 2013, and will be phased-in beginning in 2015 for us under the standardized approach.  As such, the most recent CCAR cycle
, which began October 1, 2013, overlaps with the implementation of 
the Basel III capital reforms base
d on the required nine quart
er projection horizon.  The interim final rules clarify that banking 
organizations with $50 billion 
or more in total consolidated 
assets, including us, must incorporate the revised capital framework into th
e capital planning projections and into the stress tests re
quired 
under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The rule also clarifies that for the 
upcoming cycle, capital adequacy at large banking organizations
, including us, would continue to be assessed against a minimum 5 
percent tier 1 common ratio as calculated by the Federal Reserv
e.    
Capital plans for 2014 were require
d to be submitted by January 6, 2014.  The Fe
deral Reserve will either object to a capital p
lan, in whole or in part, or provide a notice of non-objection no later than March 31, 2014, for plans submitted by the January 6, 2
014 
submission date.  If the Federal Reserve objects to a capital plan
, the bank holding company may not make any capital distribut
ions 
other than those with respect to which the Federal Reserve has 
indicated its non-objection. While we can give no assurances as 
to the 
outcome or specific interactions with the regu
lators, based on the Capital Plan we submitted on January 5, 2014, we believe we 
have a 
strong capital position and that our capital adequacy process is robust.   
 
In addition to the CCAR submission, sectio
n 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires th
at national banks, like The Huntington 
National Bank, conduct annual stress tests for submission in Janu
ary 2014.  The results of the 
stress tests will provide the OC
C with forward-looking information that will be used in bank supervision and will assist the ag
ency in assessing a company™s risk prof
ile and 
capital adequacy.  We submitted our stress test 
results to the OCC on January 6, 2014.   
 The regulatory capital rules indicate that common stockholders™ equity should be 
the dominant element with
in Tier 1 capital and
 that banking organizations should avoid overre
liance on non-common equity elements.  Un
der the Dodd-Frank Act, the ratio of Tie
r 1 
common equity to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capita
l and an indication of the quality of capital.   
 Final rules have been issued to
 implement the Volcker Rule. 
 On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the 
Volcker Rule contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, gene
rally to become effective on Ju
ly 21, 2015.  The Volcker Rule 
prohibits an insured depository institution 
and its affiliates (referred to as ﬁbanking
 entitiesﬂ) from: (i) engaging in ﬁpropr
ietary tradingﬂ and (ii) investing in or sponso
ring certain types of funds 
(ﬁcovered fundsﬂ) subject to certain limited exceptions.  T
hese prohibitions impact the ability of U.
S. banking entities to provide investment ma
nagement products and services that are compet
itive with nonbanking firms generally and with 
non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The rule also effectively prohibit
s short-term trading strategies by any U.S. banking entity if thos
e strategies involve instruments
 other than those specifically 
permitted 
for trading.   
 The final Volcker Rule regulations
 do provide certain exemptions allowing bank
ing entities to continue underwriting, market-
making and hedging activities and trad
ing certain government obligations, as well as
 various exemptions 
and exclusions from the
 definition of ﬁcovered fundsﬂ.  The level of required compliance 
activity depends on the size of 
the banking entity and the ext
ent of its 
trading.  CEOs of larger banking entities, including Huntington
, will have to attest annually in writing that their organizatio
n has in 
place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify compliance with the Volcker Rule regulations.  Banking
 12 
 entities with significant permitted trading operations will have 
to report certain quantitative information, beginning between 
June 30, 2014 and December 31, 2016
, depending on the size of the banking 
entity™s trading assets and liabilities.   
 On January 14, 2014, the five federal agencies approved an interim final rule to 
permit banking entities to retain interests in
 certain collateralized debt obligations
 backed primarily by trust preferred secu
rities from the investme
nt prohibitions of the 
Volcker 
Rule.  Under the interim final rule, the agencies permit the rete
ntion of an interest in or sponsorship of covered funds by ban
king 
entities if certain qualifications are met.  In
 addition, the agencies released a non-exc
lusive list of issuers that meet the r
equirements of 
the interim final rule.  At December 31, 
2013, we had investments in ten different 
pools of trust preferred securities.  Eight 
of our pools are included in the list of non-exclusive issuers.  We 
have analyzed the other two pools that were not included on the li
st and believe that we will continue to be able to own these 
investments under the final 
Volcker Rule regulations.   
 The rules effecting debit card interchange
 fees under the Durbin Amendment, which became effective on October 1, 2011, have 
negatively impacted our electronic banking income. 
 The Durbin Amendment, which was section 1075 of the Dodd-Fran
k Act, required the Federal Reserve to establish a cap on the 
rate merchants pay banks for electronic clea
ring of debit transactions (i.e. the inter
change rate).  The Federal Reserve issued
 final 
rules, effective October 1, 2011, for establishing standards, in
cluding a cap, for debit card interchange fees and prohibiting 
network 
exclusivity arrangements and routing restrictions.  The final rul
e established standards for assessing whether debit card inter
change 
fees received by debit card issuers were reasonable and proportional to the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit tran
sactions.  
Under the final rule, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is
 the sum 
of 21 cents per transaction, a 1 cent fraud prevention adjustme
nt, and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transactio
n. As a 
result of implementing this lower debit card interchange fee st
ructure, our electronic ba
nking income was negatively impacted b
y over 
$55 million in 2012 when compared to 2011.   
 On July 31, 2013, the Federal District Court 
in the District of Columbia 
issued a ruling in a lawsuit filed by a merchant group
 challenging the validity of the Federal Reserve™s final rule under the Durbin Amendment.  The Court ruling vacated the provisio
ns of 
the Federal Reserve™s final rule relating to standards for debit car
d interchange fees and the prov
ision dealing with network n
on-
exclusivity, but stayed its action 
until further briefing on issues identified by 
the Court.  Eventuall
y, the District Court™s 
Ruling was appealed to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, where the case is currently pending.  If the Cou
rt of Appeals rules in favor of the merch
ants, the Federal Reserve will likely be required 
to provide even more stringent caps on deb
it interchange fees, which could adversely impact all banks that i
ssue debit cards, including us, and which could result in an ind
ustry-wide retraction of debit card products and replacement with other card products not subject to the Durbin Amendment.  The Feder
al Reserve and a banking trade organization are 
submitting briefs arguing that the Court 
of Appeals should overr
ule the District C
ourt 
and uphold the Federal Reserve™s final rule under the Durbin Amendm
ent.  Oral argument before the Court of Appeals was held on 
January 17, 2014, and an expe
dited ruling is anticipated.   
There are restrictions on ou
r ability to pay dividends. 
Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary 
source of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  
However, there are statutory limits on the am
ount of dividends that the Bank can pay to
 the holding company.
  Regulatory approv
al is required prior to the declaration of any dividends in an amount 
greater than its undivided profits
 or if the total of all divid
ends declared 
in a calendar year would exceed th
e total of its net income for th
e year combined with its retained net income for the two prec
eding 
years, less any required transfers to su
rplus or common stock.  As a result of the 
deficit position of its undivided profits, p
rior to 
December 31, 2013, the Bank could not have declared and paid any cash dividends to the parent company without regulatory 
approval.   
Since the first quarter of 2008, the Bank has made a capital reduction each quarter to enable payment of periodic dividends to 
shareholders outside the Bank™s consolidated group on preferred
 and common stock of its REIT and capital financing subsidiaries
.  We anticipate that those subsidiaries, and the Bank
 will be able to resume normal dividend
 payments during the first half of 20
14.   If, in the opinion of the appli
cable regulatory authority, a bank
 under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is
 about to engage in, an 
unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such pra
ctice. Depending on the financial condition of the Ba
nk, the applicable regulatory authority might deem us to 
be engaged in an unsafe 
or 
unsound practice if the Bank were to pay di
vidends. The Federal Reserve and the OCC ha
ve issued policy statements that provide 
that insured banks and bank holding companies 
should generally only pay dividends out of 
current operating earnings.  Additionally, 
the Federal Reserve may prohibit bank holding companies from maki
ng any capital distributions, including payment of preferred and 
common dividends, if the Federal Reserve objects to the annual capital plan.   
  13 
 We are subject to the current capital requ
irements mandated by the Federal Reserve an
d final capital rules 
to implement Basel I
II 
that were adopted in July 2013.   
 The Federal Reserve sets risk-based capital 
ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for bank
 holding companies. Under the guideline
s and related policies, bank holding companies
 must maintain capital sufficient to meet bo
th a risk-based asset ratio test and a 
leverage 
ratio test on a consolidated basis. The risk
-based ratio is determined
 by allocating assets and sp
ecified off-balance sheet com
mitments 
into four weighted categories, with higher 
weighting assigned to categ
ories perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-ba
sed ratio represents total capital divided by total risk
-weighted assets. The lever
age ratio is core capital divided by total assets adju
sted as 
specified in the guidelines. The 
Bank is subject to substantially 
similar capital requirements.   
 On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve voted
 to adopt final capital rules implementing 
Basel III requirements
 for U.S. Banking 
organizations. The final rules establish an integrated regulatory 
capital framework and will implem
ent in the United States the
 Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank A
ct. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both 
the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizat
ions. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the final rule 
includes a new minimum ratio of common equity tier 1 capital 
(Tier I Common) to risk-weighted assets and a Tier 1 Common capital cons
ervation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply
 to all supervised financial institutions. The ru
le also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 
capital to risk-weighted assets and inc
ludes a 
minimum leverage ratio of 4% fo
r all banking organizations.   These new minimum 
capital ratios will become 
effective for us on January 1, 2015, and will be fully
 phased-in on January 1, 2019.   
 Following are the Basel III regulatory capital levels that we must
 satisfy to avoid limitations on capital distributions and 
discretionary bonus payments during 
the applicable transition period, from 
January 1, 2015 until 
January 1, 2019: 
 
 Basel III Regulatory Capital Levels 
 January 1, January 1, Januar
y 1, January 1, January 1, 
 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Tier 1 Common 
4.5% 5.125% 5.75% 6.375% 7.0% 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
6.0% 6.625% 7.25% 7.875% 8.5% 
Total risk-based capital ratio 
8.0% 8.625% 9.25% 9.875% 10.5% 
 The final rule emphasizes Tier 1 Common capital, the most lo
ss-absorbing form of capital, and implements strict eligibility 
criteria for regulatory capital instruments. The final rule also improves the method
ology for calculating risk-weighted assets 
to 
enhance risk sensitivity. Banks and regulators 
use risk weighting to assign different 
levels of risk to different classes of as
sets.  We have evaluated the impact of the Basel III final rule on ou
r regulatory capital ratios and estimate a reduction of approxima
tely 60 basis points to our Basel I Tier I Co
mmon risk-based capital ratio based on our June
 30, 2013 balance sheet composition.  Th
e estimate is based on management™s current interpretation, expect
ations, and understanding of the final U.S. Basel III rules.  W
e anticipate that our capital ratios, on
 a Basel III basis, will continue to ex
ceed the well capitalized mi
nimum capital requirem
ents.  We 
are evaluating options to mitigate the 
capital impact of the final rule prior to its effective implementation date.   
 Based on our review of the Basel III final rule, it is likely that when Basel III becomes effective, the HPCI Class C preferred
 securities will no longer constitute Tier 1 capital for us or the 
Bank.  As such, we determined
 that a ﬁregulatory capital even
tﬂ had 
occurred, based on an opinion of counsel rendered by a law firm
 experienced in such matters, and the HPCI board of directors 
determined to redeem the outstanding Cla
ss C preferred securities.  HPCI redeemed all $50 million of the Class C preferred secu
rities on December 31, 2013.  The holders of such securities received the redemption price of $25.00 per share.   
 Based on the final Basel III rule, banking
 organizations with more than $15 billion in
 total consolidated assets are required t
o phase-out of additional tier 1 capital any non-qualifying capital in
struments (such as trust preferred securities and cumulativ
e preferred 
shares) issued before Septemb
er 12, 2010.  We will begin the additional tier 
I capital phase-out our trust preferred securities
 in 2015, 
but will be able to include these 
instruments in Tier II capital as a no
n-advanced approaches institution.  
 Generally, under the currently applicable guidelines, a financial 
institution's capital is divided 
into two tiers. Institutions
 that must 
incorporate market risk exposure into their risk-based capital requir
ements may also have a third 
tier of capital in the form o
f restricted short-term subordinated 
debt. These tiers are:   Tier 1 risk-based capital, or core capital, which includes total equity plus qu
alifying capital securities and minority interes
ts, excluding unrealized gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive in
come, and nonqualifying intangible and 
servicing assets.   
  Tier 2 risk-based capital, or suppleme
ntary capital, which includes, among other th
ings, cumulative and limited-life preferred 
stock, mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt
, and the ACL, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.  
14 
   Total risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 
2 risk-based capital.  
 The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators 
require that all intangible assets (net of deferred tax), except 
originated or purchased MSRs, nonmortgage servicing assets, and 
purchased credit card relationships intangible assets, be deduc
ted 
from Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of these items included in capital cannot exceed 100% of its Tier 1 capital.   
 Under the risk-based guidelines to remain
 adequately-capitalized, financial institutions are required to maintain a total risk-
based 
capital ratio of 8%, with 4% being Tier 1 risk-based capital.  Th
e appropriate regulatory authority may set higher capital requ
irements 
when they believe an instituti
on's circumstances warrant.   
 Under the leverage guidelines, financial ins
titutions are required to maintain a Tier
 1 leverage ratio of at least 3%. The mini
mum 
ratio is applicable only to financial in
stitutions that meet certain specified criter
ia, including excellent asset quality, hig
h liquidity, low interest rate risk exposure, and the highest regulatory rating. 
Financial institutions not meeting these criteria are required 
to maintain a 
minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.   
 Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the financial institution to a variety of
 enforcement remedies avai
lable to the federal regulatory authorities. These in
clude limitations on the ability to pay di
vidends, the issuance by the regulator
y authority 
of a directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit 
insurance by the FDIC.  In ad
dition, the financial institution could be subject to the measures described below under Prompt Correc
tive Action as applicable to 
under-capitalized institutions.   
 The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the O
CC, and the FDIC specify that evalua
tions by the banking agencies
 of a bank's capital adequacy will include an
 assessment of the exposu
re to declines in the economic value of a bank's capital d
ue to 
changes in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a join
t policy statement on interest rate risk describing prudent meth
ods for 
monitoring such risk that rely
 principally on internal measur
es of exposure and activ
e oversight of risk management activities 
by 
senior management.   
 FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory 
authorities to take Prompt Corrective Acti
on with respect to depository institutions
 that do not meet minimum capital requir
ements. For these purposes, FDICIA es
tablishes five capital tiers: well-capitalized, 
adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly 
under-capitalized, and critically under-capitalized.   
 Throughout 2013, our regulatory cap
ital ratios and those of the Bank were in excess of the levels established for well-capitali
zed institutions.  An institution is deemed 
to be well-capitalized if it has a total ris
k-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to a regulatory order, ag
reement, or 
directive to meet and maintain a specific 
capital level for any capital measure.   
                             At December 31, 2013
       Well-capitalized
        Excess (dollar amounts in billions)
   minimums   Actual  Capital (1) 
                   Ratios:             Tier 1 leverage ratio 
Consolidated 
 5.00 
%   10.67 
%  $   3.2 
     Bank  5.00 
   9.97 
     2.8 
   Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 6.00 
   12.28 
     3.1 
     Bank  6.00 
   11.45 
     2.7 
   Total risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 10.00 
   14.57 
     2.3 
     Bank  10.00 
   13.14 
     1.6 
              (1) Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage. 
   FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital 
distribution, including pay
ment of a cash dividend 
or 
paying any management fee to its holding company, if the depo
sitory institution would become under-capitalized after such payme
nt.  Under-capitalized institutions are also subject 
to growth limitations and are required by th
e appropriate federal banking agenc
y to 
submit a capital restoration plan. If any depo
sitory institution subsidiary of a holding company is required to submit a capita
l restoration plan, the holding company would 
be required to provide a li
mited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a 
condition of approval of such plan.  

 15 
 Depending upon the severity of the und
er capitalization, the under-capitalized institu
tions may be subject to a number of 
requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell suff
icient voting stock to become 
adequately-capitalized, requirements 
to reduce 
total assets, cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on making any payment of principal or
 interest on their subordinated debt.  Critically 
under-capitalized institutions are subject to 
appointment of a receiver or conservator 
within 90 days of becoming so classified.  
 Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits an
d offering interest rates on deposits high
er than the prevailing rate in its market.
 Since the Bank is well-capitalized, the FDIC
IA 
brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits.  The Bank had $1.6 billion of such brok
ered 
deposits at December 31, 2013.   
As a bank holding company, we must act as a source of financial 
and managerial strength to the Bank and the Bank is subject to 
affiliate transaction restrictions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its 
subsidiary banks and must commit resources to
 support each such subsidiar
y bank. The Federal Reserve 
may require a 
bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary ba
nk. It may charge the bank holdin
g company with engaging in uns
afe 
and unsound practices if the bank 
holding company fails to commit 
resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actio
ns that 
the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the bank holding company™s ability to commit resources
 to such subsidiary bank.  
Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordi
nate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other 
indebtedness of such subsidiary 
bank. In the event of a bank holding company's 
bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy trustee will
 assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain th
e capital of a subsidiary bank. 
Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such
 commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over t
he 
claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including th
e holders of its note obligations.  
Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro-rata assessment of sh
areholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become 
impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve
 a deficiency in such national bank™s cap
ital stock. This statute also provides for
 the enforcement of any such pro-rata assessment of shareholders of su
ch national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by 
sale, to the extent necessary, of the 
capital stock owned by any assesse
d shareholder failing to pay th
e assessment.  As the sole shareholder 
of the Bank, we are subject to such provisions.  
Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an in
sured depository institution for administrative 
expenses and the claims of holders o
f deposit liabilities of such an in
stitution are accorded priority over the claims of general 
unsecured creditors of such an inst
itution, including the holders of the institution'
s note obligations, in the event of liquidation or other resolution of such institutio
n. Claims of a 
receiver for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insure
r of such 
holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or othe
r resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of the Bank.  
As a financial holding company, we are 
subject to additional laws and regulations.  In order to maintain its status as a financ
ial holding company, a bank holding compan
y's depository subsidiaries must all be bo
th well-capitalized and well-managed, and must meet th
eir Community Reinvestment Act obligations.  
 Financial holding company powers relate 
to financial activities that are specified 
in the Bank Holding Company Act or 
determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be fina
ncial in nature, incidental to
 an 
activity that is financial in nature, or 
complementary to a financial activity, provided 
that the complementary activity does n
ot pose a 
safety and soundness risk.  In addition, we
 are required by the Bank Holding Compan
y Act to obtain Federal Reserve approval pri
or 
to acquiring, directly or indirec
tly, ownership or control of voting shares of 
any bank, if, after such acquisition, we would o
wn or 
control more than 5% of its voting stock.  Furthermore, the Do
dd-Frank Act added a new provision to the Bank Holding Company 
Act, which requires bank holding companies
 with total consolidated assets equal to 
or greater than $50 billion to obtain prior 
approval 
from the Federal Reserve to acquire a no
ndepository company having total conso
lidated assets of $10 billion or more.
  We also must comply with anti-money launder
ing and customer privacy regulations, as 
well as corporate governance, accounting, 
and reporting requirements.
 The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related
 regulations require insured depository institutions, broker-dealers, and certain ot
her financial institutions to have po
licies, procedures, and controls to detect, preven
t, and report money laundering and terrorist
 financing.  
Federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank ho
lding company acquisition and bank
 merger applications, to take 
into 
account the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.   
16 
 Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions, are required to: 
 provide notice to our customers rega
rding privacy policies and practices,  
 inform our customers regarding the co
nditions under which their nonpublic pe
rsonal information may be disclosed to 
nonaffiliated third parties, and  
 give our customers an optio
n to prevent certain disclo
sure of such information to
 nonaffiliated third parties.  
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate 
governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us.  In 
addition to a requirement that chief exec
utive officers and chief financial officers cer
tify financial statements in writing, t
he statute imposed requirements affecting, among other matters, the com
position and activities of audit committees, disclosures relating t
o corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reportin
g.  Available Information 
 
This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 
20549.  You can obtain information on the operation of the Public 
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC
 also maintains an Internet web site that cont
ains reports, proxy statements, and othe
r information about issuers, like us, who 
file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is 
http://www.sec.gov
. The reports and other informa
tion filed by us with the SEC 
are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site is 
http://www.huntington.com
. Except as specifically incorporated by 
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on th
ose web sites is not part of this report. You also should be a
ble to inspect reports, proxy statements, and ot
her information about us at the offices of 
the NASDAQ National Market at 33 Whitehall 
Street, New York, New York.
  Item 1A: Risk Factors  Risk Governance 
 We use a multi-faceted approach to risk governance.  It begins with the board of directors defining our risk appetite in aggreg
ate as moderate-to-low.  This does not preclude engagement in se
lect higher risk activities.  Rather, the definition is intended to
 represent 
an average of where we want our overall risk to be managed.   
 Two board committees primarily 
oversee implementation of this desired risk
 profile: The Audit Comm
ittee and the Risk 
Oversight Committee.   
  The Audit Committee is principa
lly involved with overseeing the integrity 
of financial statements, providing oversight of 
the internal audit department, and selectin
g our external auditors.  
Our chief auditor reports directly to the Audit 
Committee Chair.   
 The Risk Oversight Committee supervises our risk manage
ment processes which primarily cover credit, market, 
liquidity, operational, compliance, legal, strategic, and reputational risks.  It also approves the charters of executive risk 
management committees, sets risk limits on 
certain risk measures (e.g., economic valu
e of equity), receives results of the 
risk self-assessment process, and routinely engages manageme
nt in review of key risks.  Our credit review executive 
reports directly to the Risk
 Oversight Committee.   
 Both committees are comprised of independe
nt directors and routinely hold executive se
ssions with our key officers engaged in 
accounting and risk management.  On a periodic basis, the two committees meet in joint session to cover matters relevant to bot
h such 
as the construct and appropriateness of the ACL, which is reviewed quarterly.  All directors have access to information provide
d to 
each committee and all scheduled meetings are open to all directors.   
 Further, through its Compensation Committee, the board of directors 
seeks to ensure its system of rewards is risk-sensitive and
 aligns the interests of management, creditors, and shareholders
.  We utilize a variety of compensation-related tools to induce 
appropriate behavior, including common stock ownership thresholds
 for the chief executive officer and certain members of senior
 management, a requirement to hold until retirement a portion of net shares received upon exercise of stock options or release o
f restricted stock awards (50% for executive officers and 25% for 
other award recipients), equity 
deferrals, recoupment provision
s, and 
the right to terminate compensation plans at any time.   
   17 
 Management has introduced a number of steps to help ensure an aggregate moderate-to-l
ow risk appetite is maintained.  Foremost 
is a quarterly self-assessment process, in which each business segmen
t produces an analysis of its risks and the strength of it
s risk controls.  The segment analyses are combined with assessments by
 our risk management organization of major risk sectors (e.g., 
credit, market, operational, reputational, compliance, etc.) to produce an overall enterprise risk assessment.  Outcomes of the
 process 
include a determination of the quality of the 
overall control process, the direction of
 risk, and our position compared to the 
defined risk 
appetite. 
 Management also utilizes a wide series of metrics (key risk indi
cators) to monitor risk positi
ons throughout the Company.  In 
general, a range for each metric is established which allows the 
company, in aggregate, to maintain
 its moderate-to-low risk pr
ofile.  Deviations from the range will 
indicate if the risk being measured is movi
ng, which may then necessitate corrective action.   
 We also have four other executive level committees to manage 
risk: ALCO, Credit Policy and Strategy, Risk Management, and 
Capital Management.  Each committee focuses on specific categories of risk and is supported by a series of subcommittees that a
re tactical in nature.  We believe this structure helps ensure appropriate elevation of issues and overall communication of strate
gies.   
 Huntington utilizes three levels of defense 
with regard to risk management: (1
) business segments, (2) corporate risk 
management, and (3) internal aud
it and credit review.  To induce greater ownershi
p of risk within its business segments, segmen
t risk officers have been embedded to identify and monitor risk, elevate and remediate issues, establish controls, perform self-testin
g, and 
oversee the quarterly self-assessment process.  Segment risk officers report directly to the related segment manager with a dot
ted line to the Chief Risk Officer.  Corporate Risk Management estab
lishes policies, sets operating limits, reviews new or modified 
products/processes, ensures consistency and quality assurance within the segments, an
d produces the enterprise risk assessment.
  The Chief Risk Officer has significant input in
to the design and outcome of
 incentive compensation plans as
 they apply to risk.  In
ternal 
Audit and Credit Review provide additi
onal assurance that risk-related func
tions are operating as intended.   
 Risk Overview 
 We, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of risk
s that may adversely affect our financial condition or resul
ts of 
operations, many of which are outside of our direct control, though efforts are made 
to manage those risks while optimizing ret
urns. 
Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which is the risk of 
loss due to loan and lease cu
stomers or other counterparties
 not being 
able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2
) market risk, which is the risk
 of loss due to changes in 
the market 
value of assets and liabilities due to change
s in market interest rates, foreign exchange
 rates, equity prices, and credit spre
ads, (3) 
liquidity risk, which is (a) the risk of 
loss due to the possibility that funds may not
 be available to satisfy current or futu
re commitments based on external macro market issues, investor and 
customer perception of financial strength, and events unrelated
 to 
us such as war, terrorism, or financial institution market spec
ific issues, and (b) the risk of 
loss based on our ability to satisfy current or future funding commitments due to the mi
x and maturity structure of our balance sheet, amount of on-hand cash and unencumber
ed securities and the availability of contingent sources of funding, (4) operational and legal risk, which is the risk of loss due
 to human 
error, inadequate or failed internal systems 
and controls, violations of
, or noncompliance with, la
ws, rules, regulations, pres
cribed 
practices, or ethical standards, and external influences such as
 market conditions, fraudulent 
activities, disasters, and security risks, and (5) compliance risk, which exposes us to
 money penalties, enforcement actions or ot
her sanctions as a result of nonconforma
nce with laws, rules, and regulations that ap
ply to the financial services industry. 
 We also expend considerable effort to contain risk wh
ich emanates from execution of our business strategies and work 
relentlessly to protect the Company™s reputation.  Strategic risk and reputational risk do not eas
ily lend themselves to tradit
ional methods of measurement.  Rather, we closely monitor them through processes such as new product / initiative reviews, frequent 

financial performance reviews, employee and client surveys, mon
itoring market intelligence, pe
riodic discussions between 
management and our board, and other such efforts. 
 In addition to the other information included or
 incorporated by reference into this re
port, readers should carefully consider 
that the following important factors, among others
, could negatively impact our business, future results of operations, and future c
ash 
flows materially.  
   18 
 Credit Risks:  1. Our ACL level may prove to be inappropriate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures which could 
materially adversely affect our net income and capital. 
 Our business depends on the creditworthines
s of our customers.  Our ACL of $710.8
 million at December 31, 2013, represented 
Management™s estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan an
d lease portfolio as well as our unfunded loan commitments and 
letters of credit.  We periodically review our ACL for appropriateness.  In doing so, we consider economic conditions and trend
s, collateral values, and credit quality indicators, such as past charge-off experience, lev
els of past due loans, and NPAs.  Ther
e is no 
certainty that our ACL will be appropriate over time to cover lo
sses in the portfolio because
 of unanticipated adverse changes 
in the 
economy, market conditions, or events adve
rsely affecting specific customers, industr
ies, or markets.  If the credit quality of
 our 
customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market,
 industry, or group of custom
ers changes materially, or if 
the ACL is 
not appropriate, our net income and capital could be materially 
adversely affected which, in turn, could have a material advers
e effect 
on our financial condition an
d results of operations. 
 In addition, bank regulators periodically review
 our ACL and may require us to increas
e our provision for 
loan and lease losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or
 loan charge-offs as required by these 
regulatory authorities could have a material
 adverse effect on our financial co
ndition and results of operations.  
 2. Weakness in economic conditions could ma
terially adversely affect our business. 
 Our performance could be negatively affected 
to the extent there is deterioration in 
business and economic conditions which hav
e direct or indirect material adverse impacts on us, our customers, an
d our counterparties.  These co
nditions could result in one
 or more 
of the following: 
  A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; 
 A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand
 for savings and investment products offered by us; and 
 An increase in the number of customers and counterparties 
who become delinquent, file fo
r protection under bankruptcy 
laws, or default on their loans or other obligations to us.  
 An increase in the number of delinquencies, ba
nkruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of NPAs, NCOs, provision f
or 
credit losses, and valuation adjustments on 
loans held for sale. The markets we serve 
are dependent on industrial and manufactu
ring 
businesses and thus are particularly 
vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions affecting these sectors.  
 Market Risks: 
 1. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income, reduce transactional income, and negatively impact 
the value of our loans, securities, and other assets.  This could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial 
condition, results of operations, and capital. 
 Our results of operations depend substantially on net interes
t income, which is the difference between interest earned on 
interest earning assets (such as investme
nts and loans) and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities (such as deposits and
 borrowings). Interest rates are highly sens
itive to many factors, including govern
mental monetary policies and domestic and 
international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply
, and 
other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates. 
 If our interest earning assets mature or reprice faster than 
interest bearing liabilities in a declining 
interest rate environment, net interest income could be materially adversely impacted.  Like
wise, if interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than in
terest earning assets in a rising interest rate environment,
 net interest 
income could be adversely impacted. 
 Changes in interest rates can affect the value of loans, secu
rities, assets under management, and other assets, including 
mortgage and nonmortgage servicing rights. 
 An increase in interest rates that adve
rsely affects the ability of borrowers to pa
y the 
principal or interest on loans and leases may lead to an increase in NPAs and a reduction of income recognized, which could hav
e a 
material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any 

accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income.  However, we continue to incur interest expense as a c
ost of 
funding NALs without any corresponding inter
est income.  In addition, tr
ansactional income, including trust income, brokerage 
income, and gain on sales of loans can vary significantly from 
period-to-period based on a number of factors, including the int
erest 
rate environment. 
   19 
 Rising interest rates reduce the value of our fixed-rate debt s
ecurities and cash flow hedging 
derivatives portfolio.  Any 
unrealized loss from these portfolios impacts OCI, shareholders™ equ
ity, and the Tangible Common Equ
ity ratio.  Any realized lo
ss from these portfolios imp
acts regulatory capital ratios,
 notably Tier I and To
tal risk-based capital ratios.  In a rising inter
est rate environment, pension and other post-retirement obligations somewhat mitigate negative OCI impacts
 from securities and financial
 instruments. 
 Certain investment securities, notably mortga
ge-backed securities, are very sensitive to rising and falling rates.  Generally, 
when rates rise, prepayments of principal
 and interest will decrease and the duration 
of mortgage-backed securities will increa
se.  Conversely, when rates fall, prepayments of
 principal and interest will increase an
d the duration of mortgage-backed securities
 will decrease.  In either case, interest rates have a significant impa
ct on the value of mortgage-back
ed securities investments.  
  Liquidity Risks:  1. If we lose access to ca
pital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, 
creditors, and borrowers, or have the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. 
 
Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basi
s at a reasonable cost.  The Bank
 uses its liquidity to extend
 credit and to repay liabilities as th
ey become due or as demanded by customers. 
 The board of directors establishes liquidity p
olicies and limits and Management establishes 
operating guidelines for liquidity.   
 Wholesale funding sources include securitization, federal funds pu
rchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-
core deposits, and medium- and long-term debt.  The Bank is also a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, which 

provides members access to funding through advances collateralized with mortgage-related assets.  We maintain a portfolio of hi
ghly-
rated, marketable securities that is av
ailable as a source of liquidity.   
 Capital markets disruptions can directly impact the liquidity of the Bank and Corporation.  The inability to access capital 
markets funding sources as needed could 
adversely impact our financial condition, re
sults of operations, cash flows, and level 
of 
regulatory-qualifying capital.  We may, from ti
me-to-time, consider using our existin
g liquidity position to opportunistically retire outstanding securities in privately nego
tiated or open market transactions.   
 2. Due to the losses that the Bank incurred in 2008 and 2009, prior to December 31, 2013, the Bank and its subsidiaries 
could not declare and pay dividends to the holding company, any subsidiary of the holding company outside the Bank's 
consolidated group, or any security holder outside the Bank
™s consolidated group, without regulatory approval.  Also, the 
Bank may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its undivided profits.  
 Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary source of funds for the payment of dividends to our 
shareholders. Under applicable st
atutes and regulations, a national bank may not 
declare and pay dividends in any year greater 
than its undivided profits or in excess of an amount equal to the sum of the 
total of the net income of the 
bank for that year and the r
etained net 
income of the bank for the preceding two years, minus the sum of any transfers required by the OCC and any transfers required t
o be 
made to a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock, unless the OCC approves the declaration and payment of dividends in e
xcess 
of such amount.  The Bank™s undivided profits were in a deficit position until December 2013.  We anticipate that the Bank will
 declare dividends to the holding compan
y during the first half of 2014.   
 Operational and Legal Risks: 
 1. The resolution of significant pending lit
igation, if unfavorable, could have a mat
erial adverse effect on our results of 
operations for a particular period.
   We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and 
regulatory proceedings again
st financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability again
st us could have material a
dverse 
financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, wh
ich in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.  It 
is possible that the ultimate resolution of 
these matters, if unfavorable, may be material 
to the results of operations for a particular re
porting period.   
 Note 22 of the Notes to Conso
lidated Financial Statements updates the status of 
litigation concerning Cyberco Holdings, Inc.  
Although the bank maintains litigation reserve
s related to this case, the ultimate resolu
tion of the matter, if unfavorable, ma
y be 
material to our results of operations 
for a particular reporting period.   
  20 
  2. We face significant operational risks which could lead to expensive litigation and loss of confidence by our customers, 
regulators, and capital markets. 
 We are exposed to many types of operational 
risks, including cyber-attack risk, the ri
sk of fraud or theft by employees or 
outsiders, unauthorized transactions by empl
oyees or outsiders, or operational errors by
 employees, including clerical or recor
d-keeping errors or those resulting 
from faulty or disabled comput
er or telecommunications systems.  These operational risks coul
d lead to expensive litigation and loss of confidence by our 
customers, regulators, and the capital markets. 
 Moreover, negative public opinion can result from our actual or 
alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending 
practices, corporate governance, and acquisitions and from acti
ons taken by government regulators and community organizations i
n response to those activities.  Negative public 
opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and can
 also 
expose us to litigation and regulatory action.   
 Relative to acquisitions, we cannot predict if, or when, we will be 
able to identify and attract 
acquisition candidates or make
 acquisitions on favorable terms.  We incur risks and challenges as
sociated with the integration of 
acquired institutions in a t
imely and 
efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving 

anticipated operating efficiencies. 
 Huntington is under continuous threat of loss due to cyber-attacks especially as we c
ontinue to expand customer capabilities to
 utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business.  The most significant cyberŒattack risks that we face are e-fr
aud, denial 
of service, and loss of sensitive customer data.  Loss from e-fr
aud occurs when cybercriminal
s breach and extract funds directl
y from 
customer or our accounts.  Loss can occur as a result of negative customer experience in the event of a successful denial of se
rvice attack that disrupts availability of our on-line banking services.  The attempts to breach sensitive customer data, such as acc
ount 
numbers and social security numbers, could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us if successful.
  Our risk 
and exposure to these matters remains height
ened because of the evolving nature and co
mplexity of these threats from cybercrimi
nals and hackers, our plans to continue to pr
ovide internet banking and mob
ile banking channels, and our 
plans to develop additional
 remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. 
 3. Failure to maintain effective intern
al controls over financial reporting in
 the future could impair our ability to 
accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely 
affecting our business and stock price. 
 Effective internal controls over financial 
reporting are necessary to provide reliable 
financial reports and prevent fraud. As 
a financial holding company, we are subject to regulation that focuses
 on effective internal controls and procedures.  Such contr
ols and 
procedures are modified, supplemented, an
d changed from time-to-time as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external 
events and developments.  Any failure to maintain, in the futu
re, an effective internal control 
environment could impact our ab
ility to report our financial results on an accurate an
d timely basis, which could result in re
gulatory actions, loss of investor confid
ence, and 
adversely impact our business and stock price. 
 Compliance Risks: 
 1. Bank regulators and other regulations, including Basel III capital standards and CCAR, may require higher capital 
levels, impacting our ability to pay common stock dividends or repurchase our common stock.  
 On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve voted
 to adopt final Basel III capital rules for 
U.S. Banking organi
zations.  The final ru
les establish an integrated regulato
ry capital framework and will implement in the 
United States the Basel III regulatory capital r
eforms 
from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain chan
ges required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Under the final rule, 
minimum requirements will increase for both
 the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations.  As a Standardiz
ed Approach institution, the Basel III minimum capital requirements will 
become effective for us on Ja
nuary 1, 2015, and will be f
ully 
phased-in on January 1, 2019.   
 The Federal Reserve has issued guidelines fo
r evaluating proposals by certain bank hold
ing companies, including us, to undertak
e capital actions, such as increasing dividend payments or repurchasi
ng or redeeming stock.  This process is known as CCAR.  CCAR
 includes a quantitative examin
ation component in which 
BHC-specific data is run through models
 developed by the Federal Reserve
 with the intention of estimating cap
ital levels in a hypothetical severely adverse 
economic scenario.  Ca
pital plans for 2014 w
ere 
required to be submitted by January 6, 2014.  The Federal Rese
rve will either object to a capital plan, in whole or in part, or
 provide a 
notice of non-objection no later than March 31
, 2014, for plans submitted by
 the January 6, 2014 submission date.  We submitted
 our 
capital plan to the Federal Rese
rve on Janua
ry 5, 2014.   
 21 
 The Federal Reserve and OCC are expected to undertake these capital plan reviews on a regular basis in the future. There can be
 no assurance that the Federal Reserve or 
OCC will respond favorably to
 our capital plan as part of their future capital plan re
views, 
and the Federal Reserve, OCC, or other regulatory capital requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capit
al, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases. Although 
not currently anticipated, our re
gulators may require us to ra
ise additional capital in the future. Is
suing additional common stock may 
dilute existing stockholders.   
 2. If our regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions that could result in a material adverse impact 
on our ability to compete for new business, constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs or pay dividends, and increase th
e cost of our services. 

 We are subject to the supervision and regula
tion of various state and Federal regulat
ors, including the OCC, Federal Reserve, 
FDIC, SEC, CFPB, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and vari
ous state regulatory agencies.  As such, we are subject to a 
wide variety of laws and regulations, many of which are discussed in th
e Regulatory Matters section.  As part of their supervisory p
rocess, 
which includes periodic examinations and co
ntinuous monitoring, the regul
ators have the authority to
 impose restrictions or conditions on our activities and the manner in which we ma
nage the organization.  Such actions co
uld negatively impact us in a variety of 
ways, 
including monetary fines, impacting our ability to pay dividends, 
precluding mergers or acquisitio
ns, limiting our ability to o
ffer 
certain products or services, or imposing additional capital requirements.   

 With the development of the CFPB, our consumer products an
d services are subject to increas
ing regulatory oversight and 
scrutiny with respect to compliance under consumer laws and regulations.  We may face a greater number or wider scope of 

investigations, enforcement actions and litigati
on in the future related to consumer 
practices, thereby increasing costs associ
ated with responding to or defending such actions. 
 In addition, increased regulatory inquiries
 and investigations, as well as any additi
onal 
legislative or regulatory developments affecting our consumer bu
sinesses, and any required changes to our business operations 
resulting from these developments, could result in significan
t loss of revenue, limit the products or services we offer, requir
e us to 
increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional compliance costs on us, cause harm to our 
reputation or otherwise adversely affect our consumer businesses.   

 3. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future that impact the financial industry may materially 
adversely affect us by increasing our costs, adding complexity in doing business, impeding the efficiency of our internal 
business processes, negatively impacting the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, requiring us to increase our 
regulatory capital, limiting our ability to 
pursue business opportunities, and otherwise 
result in a material adverse impact on
 our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price.  
 The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of th
e financial services industry within the United States, establishes
 the CFPB, and requires the bureau and other federal agencies to im
plement many new and significant rules and regulations.  At t
his time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Do
dd-Frank Act, or the resulting rules
 and regulations in their entire
ty, will impact our business.  Compliance with these 
new laws and regulations will result in addi
tional costs, which could be significan
t, and 
may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations
.  In addition, if we do not appropriately comply with curre
nt or 
future legislation and regulations that apply to our consumer operations, we may be su
bject to fines, penalties or judgments, o
r material regulatory restrictions on our bu
sinesses, which could adversely affect operations and, in turn, financial results.   
  Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments 
 None.  Item 2: Properties 
 Our headquarters, as well as the Bank™s, are located in the Hun
tington Center, a thirty-seven-story office building located in 
Columbus, Ohio. Of the build
ing™s total office space available, we lease approximately 28%. The lease term expires in 2030, wit
h six five-year renewal options for up to 30 year
s but with no purchase option. The Bank ha
s an indirect minority equity interest of 
18.4% 
in the building.  
  22 
  Our other major properties consist of the following:
                   Description
 Location Own Lease 
  13 story office building, located adjacent to the Huntington Center
 Columbus, Ohio 
     12 story office building, located adjacent to the Huntington Center
 Columbus, Ohio 
     3 story office building  - the Crosswoods building
 Columbus, Ohio 
     A portion of 200 Public Square Building
 Cleveland, Ohio 
     12 story office building
 Youngstown, Ohio 
     10 story office building
 Warren, Ohio 
     10 story office building 
 Toledo, Ohio 
     A portion of the Grant Building
 Pittsburgh, PA      18 story office building
 Charleston, West Virginia 
     3 story office building
 Holland, Michigan 
     2 building office complex 
 Troy, Michigan 
     Data processing and operations center (Easton)
 Columbus, Ohio 
     Data processing and operations center (Northland)
 Columbus, Ohio 
     Data processing and operations center (Parma) 
 Cleveland, Ohio 
     8 story office building
 Indianapolis, Indiana 
    Item 3: Legal Proceedings 
 Information required by this item is set forth in Note 22 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and incorporated 
into this Item by reference.
  
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
  Not applicable.  PART II 
 Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities  The common stock of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is
 traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol 
ﬁHBANﬂ. The stock is listed as ﬁHuntgBcshrﬂ or ﬁHuntBancﬂ in
 most newspapers. As of January 31, 2014, we had 22,248 
shareholders of record. 
 Information regarding the high and low sa
le prices of our common stock and cash di
vidends declared on such shares, as 
required by this item, is set forth in Table 46 entitled Selected
 Quarterly Income Statement Data and incorporated into this It
em by 
reference.  Information regarding restrictions
 on dividends, as required by this Item
, is set forth in Item 1 Business-Regulatory Matters 
and in Note 23 of the Notes to
 Consolidated Financial Statements and incorpo
rated into this Item by reference. 
 The following graph shows the changes, over the five-year period, 
in the value of $100 invested 
in (i) shares of Huntington™s 
Common Stock; (ii) the Standard & Poor™s
 500 Stock Index (the ﬁS&P 500 Indexﬂ) 
and (iii) Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank Index 
(the ﬁKBW Bank Indexﬂ), for the period December 31, 2008, 
through December 31, 2013. The KBW Bank Index is a market 
capitalization-weighted bank stock index publis
hed by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The index is composed of the largest banking 
companies and includes all money center banks and regional banks, including Huntington.  An investment of $100 on December 31, 
2008, and the reinvestment of all dividend
s are assumed.  The plotted po
ints represent the closing price on the last trading day of the 
fiscal year indicated.
   23 
   The following table provid
es information regarding Huntingt
on™s purchases of its Common Stock during the three-month 
period ended December 31, 2013: 
 Period Total Number 
of Shares 
Purchased Average 
Price Paid Per ShareTotal Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of 
Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares (or 
Approximate Dollar Value) that 
May Yet Be Purchased Under the 
Plans or Programs (2) October 1, 2013 to October 31, 2013
   - - 11,969,724 
$135,845,179 
November 1, 2013 to November 30, 2013 
  - - 11,969,724 
135,845,179 
December 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 
  - - 11,969,724 
135,845,179 
Total   - - 11,969,724 
$135,845,179 
(1) The reported shares were repurchased pursuant to Huntington'
s publicly announced stock repurchase authorization, which beca
me 
effective April 1, 2013. 
(2) The number shown represents, as of the end of each period, the maximum number of shares (approximate dollar value) of 
Common Stock that may yet be purchased unde
r publicly announced stock repurchase auth
orizations. The shares may be purchased, 
from time-to-time, depending on market conditions. 
 On March 14, 2013, Huntington Bancshares
 Incorporated announced that the Federal 
Reserve did not object to Huntington's 
proposed capital actions included in Huntington's capital plan submitted to the Federal 
Reserve in January 
2013. These actions included the potential repurchase of up to $227 million of co
mmon stock and a continuation of Huntington's current common divid
end 
through the first quarter of 2014. Huntington's Board of 
Directors authorized a share repurcha
se program consistent with Huntin
gton™s capital plan.  During the 2013 fourth quarter, Huntington did not repurchase any shares. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 
Huntington purchased 16.7 million common shares at a weighted average price of $7.46 per share.  For the year ended December 31
, 2012, Huntington purchased 23.3 million common shares
 at a weighted average 
price of $6.36 per share. 
24 
 Item 6: Selected Financial Data 
 Table 1 - Selected Financial Data(1)
                                    Year Ended December 31,
  (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
   2013  2012  2011  2010  2009    Interest income $  1,860,637 
 $  1,930,263 
  $  1,970,226 
$  2,145,392 
$  2,238,142 
    Interest expense 
   156,029 
    219,739 
     341,056 
   526,587 
   813,855 
    Net interest income 
   1,704,608 
    1,710,524 
     1,629,170 
   1,618,805 
   1,424,287 
    Provision for credit losses 
   90,045 
    147,388 
     174,059 
   634,547 
   2,074,671 
  Net interest income after provision for credit losses 
   1,614,563 
     1,563,136 
     1,455,111 
   984,258 
   (650,384)  Noninterest income 
   997,995 
    1,097,857 
     980,623 
   1,041,858 
   1,005,644 
  Noninterest expense: 
                 Goodwill impairment 
   ---    ---     ---   ---   2,606,944 
    Other noninterest expense 
   1,758,003 
    1,835,876 
     1,728,500 
   1,673,805 
   1,426,499 
  Total noninterest expense 
   1,758,003 
    1,835,876 
     1,728,500 
   1,673,805 
   4,033,443 
  Income (loss) before income taxes 
   854,555 
    825,117 
     707,234 
   352,311 
   (3,678,183)
  Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
   215,814 
    184,095 
     164,621 
   39,964 
   (584,004)  Net income (loss) 
$  638,741 
  $  641,022 
  $  542,613 
$  312,347 
$  (3,094,179)
  Dividends on preferred shares 
   31,869 
    31,989 
     30,813 
   172,032 
   174,756 
  Net income (loss) applicable to common shares 
$  606,872 
  $  609,033 
  $  511,800 
$  140,315 
$  (3,268,935)
  Net income (loss) per common share - basic 
$  0.73 
 $  0.71 
  $  0.59 
$  0.19 
$  (6.14)  Net income (loss) per common share - diluted 
   0.72 
    0.71 
     0.59 
   0.19 
   (6.14)  Cash dividends declared per common share 
   0.19 
    0.16 
     0.10 
   0.04 
   0.04 
  Balance sheet highlights 
                    Total assets (period end)
 $  59,476,344 
 $  56,153,185 
  $  54,450,652 
$  53,819,642 
$  51,554,665 
  Total long-term debt (period end)
(2)    2,458,272 
    1,364,834 
     3,097,857 
   3,813,827 
   3,802,670 
  Total shareholders' equity (period end) 
   6,099,323 
    5,790,211 
     5,418,100 
   4,980,542 
   5,336,002 
  Average long-term debt
(2)    2,372,765 
    2,273,140 
     3,275,913 
   3,953,177 
   5,558,001 
  Average shareholders' equity 
   5,914,914 
    5,671,455 
     5,237,541 
   5,482,502 
   5,787,401 
  Average total assets 
   56,299,313 
    55,673,599 
     53,750,054 
   52,574,231 
   52,440,268 
  Key ratios and statistics 
                            Margin analysis - as a % of average earnings assets 
                               Interest income(3)    3.66 
 % 3.85 
  % 4.09 
%  4.55 
% 4.88 
%  Interest expense 
   0.30 
    0.44 
     0.71 
   1.11 
   1.77 
  Net interest margin
(3)    3.36 
  % 3.41 
  % 3.38 
%  3.44 
% 3.11 
%Return on average total assets 
   1.13 
% 1.15 
% 1.01 
%  0.59 
% (5.90)%Return on average common shareholders' equity 
   11.0 
 11.5 
  10.5 
   3.7 
   (80.8)  Return on average tangible common shareholders' 
equity(4), (8)    12.7 
 13.5 
     12.7 
   5.6 
   (22.4)  Efficiency ratio
(5)
    62.9 
 63.4 
     63.7 
   60.4 
   55.4 
  Dividend payout ratio 
   26.0 
 22.5 
  16.9 
   21.1 
  N.R.   Average shareholders' equity to average assets 
   10.51 
 10.19 
     9.74 
   10.43 
   11.04 
  Effective tax rate (benefit) 
   25.3 
 22.3 
     23.3 
   11.3 
   (15.9)  Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio (period end)
(8)    10.90 
 10.48 
  10.00 
   9.29 
   6.76 
  Tangible common equity to tangible assets (period 
end) (6), (8)    8.83 
    8.76 
     8.30 
   7.56 
   5.92 
  Tangible equity to tangible assets (period end)
(7), (8)    9.49 
    9.46 
     9.02 
   8.24 
   9.24 
  Tier 1 leverage ratio (period end) 
   10.67 
    10.36 
     10.28 
   9.41 
   10.09 
  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (period end) 
   12.28 
    12.02 
     12.11 
   11.55 
   12.15 
  Total risk-based capital ratio (period end) 
   14.57 
    14.50 
     14.77 
   14.46 
   14.55 
  Other data                             Full-time equivalent employees (average) 
   11,964 
    11,494 
     11,398 
   11,038 
   10,384 
  Domestic banking offices (period end) 
   711     705      668    620    611   N.R. - Not relevant, as denomin
ator of calculation is a loss in pr
ior period compared with 
income in current period.
    25 
 (1)  Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to the Significant Items for additional discussio
n regarding these key factors. 
(2)  Includes FHLB advances, subordinated notes, and other long-term debt.  At December 31, 2013, FHLB advances excludes $1.8 
billion of advances that are short-term in nature. 
(3)  On an FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(4)  Net income (loss) less expense excludi
ng amortization of intangibles for the period
 divided by average tangible shareholders'
 equity. Average tangible shareholders' equity equals average total shareholders' equity less average intangible assets and good
will.  Expense for amortization of intangibles an
d average intangible assets are net of 
deferred tax liability, and calculated assumin
g a 35% tax rate. (5)  Noninterest expense less amortization of 
intangibles divided by the sum of FTE net 
interest income and noninterest income 
excluding securities gains. (6)  Tangible common equity (total common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided 
by tangible assets (total asse
ts less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible 
assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax
 rate. 
(7)  Tangible equity (total equity less goodwill and other intangi
ble assets) divided by tangible 
assets (total assets less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net 
of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(8)  Tier 1 common equity, tangible equity, tangible common equity, and tangible asse
ts are non-GAAP financial measures.  
Additionally, any ratios utilizing these financial measures are also non-GAAP.  These 
financial measures ha
ve been included as 
they are considered to be critical metrics with which to an
alyze and evaluate financial cond
ition and capital strength.  Other 
companies may calculate these financial measures differently. 
  
Item 7:  Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
 INTRODUCTION  We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding compan
y organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in 
Columbus, Ohio.  Through the Bank, we have 148 years of servicin
g the financial needs of our cust
omers.  Through our subsidiari
es, we provide full-service commercial and cons
umer banking services, mortgage banking se
rvices, automobile financing, equipment 
leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage servi
ces, insurance service programs, and other financial products an
d services.  Our 695 branches are located in Oh
io, Michigan, Pennsylv
ania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. Selected financi
al services and other activities are also conducted in various othe
r states.  International bankin
g services are available through the 
headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio and a limited purpose office
 located in the Cayman Islands and another limited purpose of
fice located in Hong Kong.  Our 
foreign banking activities, in 
total or with any individual country, are not significant. 
 The following MD&A provides information we believe necessary fo
r understanding our financial condition, changes in financial 
condition, results of operations, an
d cash flows.  The MD&A should be read in 
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and other informa
tion contained in this report. 
 Our discussion is divided into key segments:   
  Executive Overview
 Œ Provides a summary of our current financial 
performance, and business overview, including our 
thoughts on the impact of the economy, legislative and regulatory initiatives, and recent industry developments.  This section 
also provides our outlook rega
rding our 2014 expectations.  
 Discussion of Results of Operations
 - Reviews financial performance from a consolidated perspective.  It also includes a 
Significant Items section that summarizes key 
issues helpful for understanding perfor
mance trends. Key consolidated average 
balance sheet and income statement trends are also discussed in this section.    
 Risk Management and Capital 
- Discusses credit, market, liquidity, operational risks, and compliance including how these 
are managed, as well as performance trends. It also includes a 
discussion of liquidity policies,
 how we obtain funding, and 
related performance. In addition, there is a discussion 
of guarantees and / or commitments made for items such as standby 
letters of credit and commitments to sell loans,
 and a discussion that reviews the ad
equacy of capital, including regulatory 
capital requirements.  Business Segment Discussion
 - Provides an overview of financial performance for each of our major business segments and 
provides additional discussion of trends unde
rlying consolidated financial performance. 
 Results for the Fourth Quarter 
- Provides a discussion of results for the 2013
 fourth quarter compared with the 2012 fourth 
quarter. 
 Additional Disclosures 
- Provides comments on important matters including forward-looking statements, critical accounting 
policies and use of significant estimates, recent accounting pronouncements and developments, and acquisitions.   
26 
 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
 2013 Financial Performance Review 
 In 2013, we reported net income of $638.7 million, or $0.72 per 
common share, relatively unchanged from the prior year.  This 
resulted in a 1.13% return on average assets and a 12.7% return on 
average tangible common equity.  In addition, we grew our ba
se of consumer and business customers while our efficiency ratio decrea
sed to 62.9% in 2013 from 63.4% 
in 2012.  Results from our 
strategic business investments and OCR 
sales approach continued in 2013.  
(Also, see Significant Items Influencing Financial 
Performance Comparisons within the Discussion of Results of Operations.)
   
 Fully-taxable equivalent net interest inco
me was $1.7 billion in 2013, an increase of 
$1.0 million, or less than 1%, compared w
ith 2012.  This reflected the impact of 4% loan growth, offset by a 5 basis point decline in the net interest margin to 3.36%, as w
ell as a 7% reduction in other earning assets, the majority of which were loans held for sale.  The loan growth reflected an increase in
 average 
C&I loans due to continued growth within the middle market he
althcare vertical, equipment finance, and dealer floorplan loans. 
 Also, our average automobile loans increased, as the growth in originatio
ns remained strong and we kept 
these loans on our balance sh
eet instead of selling them through securitizations.  As expected, our CRE portfolio declined, reflecting continued runoff as accep
table returns for new originations were balanced against internal concentration limits and increased competition for projects sponsor
ed by 
high quality developers.  Average loan
s held-for-sale decreased, reflecting the impact 
of automobile securitizations completed 
in 2012 
and no such securitizations in 2013.   
 Noninterest income was $1.0 billion in 2
013, a 9% decrease compared with 2012.  Mortgage banking income was down $64.2 
million due to a reduction in volume, lower gain on sale margin,
 and a higher percentage of originations held on the balance sh
eet.  In 
addition, gains on sale of loans were down $40.0 million due to 
no auto securitizations in 2013
. Service charges increased $9.6
 million 
in 2013 despite a decrease of
 approximately $28 million due to a change that we made in February 2013 on posting order for our 
consumer transaction accounts.   
 Noninterest expense was $1.8 billion in 2013, a 4% decrease co
mpared with 2012.  The decrease was primarily due to lower 
marketing, deposit and other insurance, professional services and other expense as we actively managed the pace and size of 

investment.  Other expense declined due to 
lower mortgage repurchase and warranty, and OREO and foreclosure expenses.  This was
 partially offset by franchise repositioning 
expense related significant items included 
in net occupancy ($12.1 million), personnel costs 
($6.7 million), equipment ($2.4 million), outside data processi
ng and other services ($1.4 mil
lion), and other expense ($1.0 mi
llion).  
The increase in personnel costs primarily related to the increase in the number of average full-time equivalent employees was p
artially offset by a significant item of $33.9 milli
on from the pension curtailment gain.   
 Most credit quality related metrics 
in 2013 reflected continued im
provement.  NALs declined $85.
6 million, or 21%, from 2012 to
 $322.1 million, or 0.75% of total loans and 
leases.  NPAs declined $93.6 million, or 21%, compared to a year-ago to $352.2 mill
ion, or 0.82% of total loans and leases, OREO, and other NPAs.  The decreases primarily reflected meaningful improvement in both CRE
 and C&I NALs.  The provision for 
credit losses decreased $57.3 million, or 39%, fro
m 2012 due to the c
ontinued decline in class
ified, criticized, and nonaccrual loans and included the implementation of enhancements to our ALLL model.  NCOs decreased $153.8 
million, or 45%, from the prior year to $18
8.7 million.  NCOs were an annualized 0.45% of average loans and leases in the curre
nt 
year compared to 0.85% in 2012.  Within 
the consumer portfolio, NCOs related to Ch
apter 7 bankruptcy loans amounted to $22.8 
million in 2013 and $34.6 million in 2012.  The ACL as a percentage of total loans and leases decreased to 1.65% from 1.99% a y
ear 
ago, while the ACL as a percentage of period-end total NALs increased to 221% from 199%. 
 The tangible common equity to ta
ngible assets ratio at December 
31, 2013, was 8.83%, up 7 basis 
points from a year ago.  Our 
Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio at year end was 10.90%, up from 10.48% at the end of 2012.  The regulatory Tier 1 risk-b
ased 
capital ratio at December 31, 2013, was 12.28%, up from 12.02% at December 31, 2012.  The increase in the regulatory Tier 1 ris
k-based capital ratio reflected the increase in retained earnings, par
tially offset by the redemption 
of $50 million of qualifyin
g REIT 
preferred securities in the 2013
 fourth quarter, and growth in risk-weighted a
ssets.  All capital ratios were impacted by the r
epurchase 
of 17 million common shares over the last four quarters, none of 
which were repurchased during the 2013 fourth quarter.  We hav
e the 
ability to repurchase up to $136 million additional shares of common 
stock through the first quarter 
of 2014.  We intend to con
tinue 
disciplined repurchase activ
ity consistent with our annual capital plan, our capital return ob
jectives, and market conditions. 
     27 
 Business Overview 
 General 
 Our general business objectives ar
e: (1) grow net interest income and fee income, (2) increase cross-sell and share-of-wallet 
across all business segments, (3) improve efficiency ratio, (4) contin
ue to strengthen risk mana
gement, including sustained 
improvements in credit metrics,
 and (5) maintain strong capital and liquidity positions.   
 In 2013, we grew our base of consumer and business customers,
 while achieving pos
itive operating leverage.  Our performance in 
the second half of 2013 demonstrates st
rong business momentum, positioning us well 
for 2014.  Highlights of our financial stren
gth in 
2013 include a strong balance shee
t, ongoing deposit growth and quality loan grow
th in commercial and auto lending.  Our deposi
t and lending growth is the result of focused execution and key strate
gic investments made over the la
st four years.  We have don
e all of 
this while decreasing expenses by 4 percent, year over year, as the result of disciplined expense management.   
 We continue to face strong competition from other banks and financial service firms in our markets.  To address these challenge
s, the cornerstone of our strategy has been to
 invest in the franchise in order to grow our market share and share-of-wallet.  In 
this regard, our OCR methodology continued to deliver success in 2013.  Consumer checking account households grew by 96 thousand 

households, or 8%, over the last year.  Commercial relationships 
grew at a rate of 6% and have increased by 9 thousand commerci
al customers since 2012.  Our ﬁFair Playﬂ philo
sophy, combined with continued OCR success, positively impacted re
sults in 2013.   
 Economy 
 The environment in 20
13 was different than we 
thought it would be when we started the year, as the economic, interest rate, and
 political environments were more challenging.  Currently, we are seeing 
good momentum going into 2014, as customers seem to hav
e a slightly better mindset as the political environment seems to be 
less of an issue and the genera
l economic outlook is more po
sitive as 
evidenced by the following:   
  Although slower than the national growth 
rate of 1.74%, aggregate employment growth in our footprint states remained 
positive at 0.89% over the 12 month pe
riod ended October 2013.   
 According to the Philadelphia FRB Coincident Economic Activ
ity Index, Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio outperformed the 
nation in the economic recovery to date 
and prospects for growth over the next
 six months appear positive.   
 Industrial vacancy rates have shown declin
ing trends in our large footprint MSAs.   
 Consistent with long-term trends, housing 
prices have been rising broadly across ou
r footprint over 2013 and have tended to 
be more stable than the national average.   
 Legislative and Regulatory 
 A comprehensive discussion of legislativ
e and regulatory matters affecting us can be found in the Regulatory Matters section 
included in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.   
 2014 Expectations 
 Net interest income is expected to moderately increase.  We an
ticipate an increase in earning assets as total loans moderately 
grow and investment securities remain near
 current levels.  However, those benefits 
to net interest income are expected to be m
ostly 
offset by continued downward pressure on NIM.  While we 
are maintaining a disciplin
ed approach to loan pricing, asset yields re
main 
under pressure but the continued opportunity of deposit 
repricing remains, albeit closer to current levels.  
 The C&I portfolio is expected 
to grow consistent with the anticipated increase in customer activity.  Our C&I loan pipeline 
remains robust with much of this ref
lecting the positive impact from our investment
s in specialized commercial verticals, autom
otive dealer relationships, focused OCR sales process, and continued 
support of middle market and sma
ll business lending.  Automobile
 loan originations remain strong, and we 
currently do not anticipate any 
automobile securitizations in the near future.  Residen
tial mortgages, home equity, and CRE loan balances are expected to increase modestly.   
 
We anticipate the increase in total loans will modestly outpace growth in total deposits.  This 
reflects our continued focus on
 the 
overall cost of funds, th
rough the issuance of 
long-term debt, as well as the continued 
shift towards low- and no-cost demand d
eposits and money market deposit accounts. 
 Noninterest income, excluding the impact of 
any net MSR activity, is expected to be slig
htly lower than recent levels, due to t
he anticipated decline in mortgage banking revenues and the contin
ued refinement of products unde
r our Fair Play philosophy.   
  28 
 Noninterest expense, excluding the net $10 million of benefit fr
om Significant Items we experien
ced in 2013, is expected to 
remain around current levels.  We 
are committed to delivering 
positive operating lev
erage for the 2
014 full year.  
 NPAs are expected to show continued improvement.  This y
ear, NCOs represented the mid-point of our expected normalized 
range of 35 to 55 basis points.  The leve
l of provision for credit losses was below 
our long-term expectation, and we continue 
to 
expect moderate quarterly volatility. 
 
The effective tax rate for 2014
 is expected to be in the range of 25% to 28
%, primarily reflecting the impacts of tax-exempt 
income, tax-advantaged investments, and general business credits. 
29 
 Table 2 - Selected Annual Income Statements (1)
                             Year Ended December 31, 
         Change from 2012 
      Change from 2011 
   (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share 
amounts)   2013    Amount Percent
  2012     Amount Percent 
  2011    Interest income $  1,860,637
$ (69,626) (4)%$ 1,930,263
$  (39,963) (2)% $ 1,970,226 
  Interest expense 
   156,029 (63,710) (29)  219,739   (121,317) (36)   341,056 
  Net interest income 
   1,704,608
 (5,916) ---  1,710,524
   81,354 
 5    1,629,170 
  Provision for credit losses 
   90,045 (57,343) (39)  147,388   (26,671) (15)   174,059 
Net interest income after provision fo
r                credit losses 
   1,614,563
 51,427 3   1,563,136
   108,025 
 7    1,455,111 
  Service charges on deposit accounts  
   271,802 9,623 4   262,179   18,672 
 8    243,507 
  Mortgage banking income 
   126,855 (64,237) (34)  191,092   107,684 
 129    83,408 
  Trust services  
   123,007 1,110 1   121,897   2,515 
 2    119,382 
  Electronic banking 
   92,591 10,301 13   82,290   (29,407) (26)   111,697 
  Insurance income 
   69,264 (2,055) (3)  71,319   1,849 
 3    69,470 
  Brokerage income 
   69,189 (3,037) (4)  72,226   (8,141) (10)   80,367 
  Bank owned life insurance income 
   56,419 377 1   56,042   (6,294) (10)   62,336 
  Capital markets fees 
   45,220 (2,940) (6)  48,160   11,620 
 32    36,540 
  Gain on sale of loans 
   18,171 (40,011) (69)  58,182   26,238 
 82    31,944 
  Securities gains (losses) 
   418 (4,351) (91)  4,769   8,450 
N.R.    (3,681)  Other income  
   125,059 (4,642) (4)  129,701   (15,952) (11)   145,653 
Total noninterest income 
   997,995 (99,862) (9)  1,097,857
   117,234 
 12    980,623 
  Personnel costs 
   1,001,637
 13,444 1   988,193   95,659 
 11    892,534 
  Outside data processing and other 
services 
   199,547 9,292 5   190,255   1,081 
 1    189,174 
  Net occupancy 
   125,344 14,184 13   111,160   2,031 
 2    109,129 
  Equipment    106,793 3,846 4   102,947   10,403 
 11    92,544 
  Marketing 
   51,185 (13,078) (20)  64,263   (1,297) (2)   65,560 
  Deposit and other insurance expense 
   50,161 (18,169) (27)  68,330   (9,362) (12)   77,692 
  Amortization of intangibles 
   41,364 (5,185) (11)  46,549   (6,769) (13)   53,318 
  Professional services 
   40,587 (25,171) (38)  65,758   (2,858) (4)   68,616 
  Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
   --- 798N.R   (798)   8,899 
 (92)   (9,697)  Other expense 
   141,385 (57,834) (29)  199,219   9,589 
 5    189,630 
Total noninterest expense 
   1,758,003
 (77,873) (4)  1,835,876
   107,376 
 6    1,728,500 
Income before income taxes 
   854,555 29,438 4   825,117   117,883 
 17    707,234 
Provision for income taxes 
   215,814 31,719 17   184,095   19,474 
 12    164,621 
Net income 
$  638,741$ (2,281) ---%$ 641,022$  98,409 
 18 % $ 542,613 
Dividends on preferred shares 
   31,869  (120) ---  31,989   1,176 
 4     30,813 
Net income applicable to common shares 
$  606,872$ (2,161) ---%$ 609,033$  97,233 
 19 % $ 511,800 
Average common shares - basic 
   834,205 (23,757) (3)%  857,962   (5,729) (1)%   863,691 
Average common shares - diluted
(2)    843,974 (19,428) (2)  863,402   (4,222) ---    867,624 
Per common share: 
              Net income - basic 
$  0.73$ 0.02 3 %$ 0.71$  0.12 
 20 % $ 0.59 
Net income - diluted 
   0.72 0.01 1   0.71   0.12 
 20     0.59 
Cash dividends declared 
   0.19 0.03 19   0.16   0.06 
 60     0.10 
Revenue - FTE                  Net interest income 
$  1,704,608
$ (5,916) ---%$ 1,710,524
$  81,354 
 5 % $ 1,629,170 
  FTE adjustment 
   27,340 6,934 34   20,406   5,490 
 37     14,916 
Net interest income
(3)    1,731,948
 1,018 ---  1,730,930
   86,844 
 5     1,644,086 
Noninterest income 
   997,995 (99,862) (9)  1,097,857
   117,234 
 12     980,623 
Total revenue
(3) $  2,729,943
$ (98,844) (3)%$ 2,828,787
$  204,078 
 8 % $ 2,624,709 
N.R. - Not relevant, as denomin
ator of calculation is a loss in pr
ior period compared with 
income in current period.
    30 
 (1)  Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to ﬁSignificant Itemsﬂ. 
(2)  Net income excluding expense for amortization of intangible
s for the period divided by aver
age tangible common shareholders™ 
equity. Average tangible common shareholders™ equity equals average total common shareholders™ equity less average intangible 
assets and goodwill. Expense for amortization of intangibles and average intangible assets are net of deferred tax liability, a
nd calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 (3)  On a fully-taxable equivalent (FTE) basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 
 DISCUSSION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  This section provides a review of financ
ial performance from a consolidated perspective. It also includes a Significant Items 
section that summarizes key issues important for a complete understand
ing of performance trends. Key consolidated balance sheet
 and income statement trends are discussed. All earnings per share data
 is reported on a diluted basis. For additional insight on fi
nancial 
performance, please read this section in conjunction with the Business Segment Discussion. 
 Significant Items  Definition of Significant Items  From time-to-time, revenue, expenses, or 
taxes, are impacted by items judged by us
 to be outside of ordinary banking activities
 and / or by items that, while they may be 
associated with ordinary banking activities, ar
e so unusually large that their outsiz
ed impact 
is believed by us at that time to be infrequent or short-term 
in nature. We refer to such items 
as Significant Items. Most ofte
n, these 
Significant Items result from factors origin
ating outside the company; e.g., regulatory 
actions / assessments, windfall gains, 
changes in 
accounting principles, one-time tax assessments / refunds, litigation actions, etc.  In other cases they may result from our de
cisions associated with significant corporate actions 
out of the ordinary course of business;
 e.g., merger / restructuring charges, 
recapitalization actions, goodwill impairment, etc.   
 Even though certain revenu
e and expense items are naturally subject to more 
volatility than others due to changes in market and
 economic environment conditions, as a gene
ral rule volatility alone does not define a Si
gnificant Item. For example, changes in
 the 
provision for credit losses, gains / losses from investment activities, ass
et valuation writedowns, etc., reflect ordinary bank
ing 
activities and are, therefore, typically exclude
d from consideration as a Significant Item. 
 
We believe the disclosure of Significant Items provides a better unde
rstanding of our performance and trends to ascertain which
 of such items, if any, to include
 or exclude from an analysis of 
our performance; i.e., within th
e context of determining how t
hat performance differed from expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust estimates of future performance accordingly. To th
is end, we adopted a practice of listing Significant Items in our externa
l disclosure documents; e.g., earnings press releases, investo
r presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K. 
 
Significant Items for any particular period 
are not intended to be a complete list of 
items that may materially impact current 
or 
future period performance.  
  Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance Comparisons 
 Earnings comparisons among the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 were impacted by a number of 
Significant Items summarized below. 
 1. Pension Curtailment Gain.  During the 2013 third quarter, a $33.9 million pension curtailment gain was recorded in personnel 
costs.  This resulted in a positive impact of $0.03 per co
mmon share for 2013. 
 2. Franchise Repositioning Related Expense.
  During 2013, $23.5 million of franchi
se repositioning related expense was 
recorded.  This resulted in a negative impact of $0.02 per common share for 2013. 
 3. State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment.
   During 2012, a valuation allowance of $21.3 million (net of tax) 
was released for the portion of the deferred tax asset and state net operating loss carryforwards expected to be realized.  Thi
s resulted in a positive impact of $0.02 per 
common share for 2012.  Additional informati
on can be found in the Provision for 
Income Taxes section within this MD&A.
    31 
  4. Bargain Purchase Gain.
  During 2012, an $11.2 million 
bargain purchase gain associated with the FDIC-assisted Fidelity 
Bank acquisition was recorded in noninterest income.  This resulted in
 a positive impact of $0.01
 per common share for 2012. 
 5. Litigation Reserve.
  $23.5 million and $17.0 million of additions to litigati
on reserves were record
ed as other noninterest 
expense in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  This resulted in a negative impact of $0.02 per common share in 2012 and $0.01 per 
common share in 2011.  
 6. Visa.  Prior to the Visa
® IPO occurring in March 2008, Visa
® was owned by its member banks, which included the Bank.  As 
a result of this ownership, we received Class B shares of Visa
® stock at the time of the Visa
® IPO.  In 2009, we sold these Visa
® stock shares, resulting in a $31.4 million pretax gain ($.04 per common share). 
 This amount was recorded to noninterest 
income.  In 2011, a $6.4 million deriva
tive loss due to an increase 
in the liability associated with
 the sale of these shares was 
recorded to noninterest income. 
 7. Early Extinguishment of Debt.  
The positive impact relating to the early extinguish
ment of debt on our reported results was 
$9.7 million ($0.01 per common share) in 2011.
    The following table reflects the earnings impact of the above-mentioned Significant Items for periods affected by this Results 
of 
Operations discussion: 

  Table 3 - Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparison (1)
                                                 2013   2012    2011   (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share 
amounts) After-tax EPS After-tax EPS 
  After-tax  EPS 
 Net income  - GAAP 
$ 638,741 
        $ 641,022        $ 542,613         Earnings per share, after-tax
          0.72 
           0.71 
           0.59 
                                          Significant items - favorable (unfavorable) 
impact:   Earnings (2)   EPS (3)(4)   Earnings (2)   EPS 
(3)(4)     Earnings (2)   EPS 
(3)(4)  Pension curtailment gain 
$ 33,926 
  $ 0.03 
  $ ---  $ ---  $ --- $ --- Franchise repositioning related expense 
   (23,461)    (0.02)    ---     ---     ---     ---  State deferred tax asset valuation allowance 
adjustment
(4)  ---   ---    21,251   0.02 
   ---   ---  Bargain purchase gain 
 ---   ---   11,217   0.01 
   ---   ---  Litigation reserves addition 
 ---   ---   (23,500)   (0.02)   (17,028)   (0.01)   Visa®-related derivative loss 
   ---     ---    ---     ---     (6,385)     ---   Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
   ---     ---    ---     ---     9,697     0.01 
       (1)See Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance discussion.
               (2)Pretax unless otherwise noted.
               (3)Based upon the annual average outstanding diluted common shares.
                 (4)After-tax.                  Net Interest Income / Average Balance Sheet 
 Our primary source of revenue is net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from earning assets 
(primarily loans, securities, and direct financing leases), and in
terest expense of funding sources 
(primarily interest-bearing
 deposits 
and borrowings). Earning asset ba
lances and related funding 
sources, as well as changes in 
the levels of interest rates, impact
 net interest income. The difference between the average yield on earning assets and the average rate paid for interest-bearing liab
ilities is the net interest spread. Noninterest-bearing sources of funds, su
ch as demand deposits and shareholders™ equity, also support e
arning 
assets. The impact of the noninterest-bearing sources of funds, often 
referred to as ﬁfreeﬂ funds,
 is captured in the net inter
est margin, 
which is calculated as net interest 
income divided by average earning assets.  Bo
th the net interest margin and net interest sp
read are presented on a fully-taxable equi
valent basis, which means that tax
-free interest income has been adjusted to a pretax equivale
nt 
income, assuming a 35% tax rate.  
 The following table shows changes in fully-
taxable equivalent interest income, interest 
expense, and net interest income due to
 volume and rate variances for major categories of 
earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities: 
32 
   Table 4 - Change in Net Interest Income Due to Changes in Average Volume and Interest Rates
(1)
                   2013   2012        Increase (Decrease) From
  Increase (Decrease) From 
      Previous Year Due To
  Previous Year Due To 
 Fully-taxable equivalent basis
(2)        Yield/             Yield/      (dollar amounts in millions)
   Volume   Rate    Total   Volume     Rate    Total 
   Loans and direct financing leases
 $ 66.1 
$  (108.7)$  (42.6)$  58.6 
$  (105.6)$  (47.0)   Investment securities
    (3.7)   2.0 
   (1.7)  1.9 
 (2.1)   (0.2)   Other earning assets
    (16.8)   (1.7)   (18.5)  24.2 
 (11.5)   12.7 
 Total interest income from earning assets 
   45.6 
   (108.4)   (62.8)  84.7 
 (119.2)   (34.5)   Deposits    1.0 
   (46.9)   (45.9)  (3.0) (94.8)   (97.8)   Short-term borrowings
    (0.7)   (0.6)   (1.3)  (1.2) (0.3)   (1.5)   Federal Home Loan Bank advances
    0.8 
   (0.5)   0.3  0.8 
 (0.8)   ---   Subordinated notes and other long-term debt,
                   including capital securities
    (8.3)   (8.6)   (16.9)  (32.0)   10.0 
   (22.0) Total interest expense of interest-bearing liabilities 
   (7.2)   (56.6)   (63.8)  (35.4) (85.9)   (121.3) Net interest income 
$ 52.8 
$  (51.8)$  1.0$  120.1 
$  (33.3)$  86.8 
(1)The change in interest rates due to both rate and volume has been allocated between the factors in proportion to the relationsh
ip of the 
absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.
 (2)Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
              33 
 Table 5 - Consolidated Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Margin Analysis
                       Average Balances
 Fully-taxable equivalent basis (1) 
    Change from 2012
        Change from 2011
     (dollar amounts in millions)
   2013   Amount Percent 
   2012      Amount Percent 
  2011   Assets 
                         Interest-bearing deposits in banks 
$  70$ (25) (26)%   $ 95   $  (38) (29)%   $ 133 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under 
                    resale agreement 
   ---   --- ---      ---     (5) (100)     5 Loans held for sale    521   (566) (52)      1,087 
     799  277      288 Available-for-sale and other securities: 
                    Taxable 
   6,383   (1,515) (19)      7,898 
     (473) (6)     8,371   Tax-exempt 
   563   136  32       427      (1) ---     428 Total available-for-sale and other securities 
   6,946   (1,379) (17)      8,325 
     (474) (5)     8,799 Trading account securities 
   80   13  19       67      (40) (37)     107 Held-to-maturity securities - taxable 
   2,155   1,230 
 133       925      550  147      375 Total securities 
   9,181   (136) (1)      9,317 
     36  ---     9,281   Loans and leases: (3) 
                                 Commercial: 
                                   Commercial and industrial 
   17,174   1,230 
 8       15,944 
     2,347 
 17      13,597       Commercial real estate: 
                          Construction 
   580   (2) ---      582      (10) (2)     592         Commercial 
   4,449   (749) (14)      5,198 
     (415) (7)     5,613       Commercial real estate 
   5,029   (751) (13)      5,780 
     (425) (7)     6,205     Total commercial 
   22,203   479  2       21,724 
     1,922 
 10      19,802     Consumer:                              Automobile loans and leases 
   5,679   1,153 
 25       4,526 
     (1,351) (23)     5,877       Home equity    8,310   (5) ---      8,315 
     375  5      7,940       Residential mortgage    5,198   8  ---      5,190 
     473  10      4,717       Other consumer 
   436   (19) (4)      455      (76) (14)     531     Total consumer 
   19,623   1,137 
 6       18,486 
     (579) (3)     19,065   Total loans and leases 
   41,826   1,616 
 4       40,210 
     1,343 
 3      38,867   Allowance for loan and lease losses 
   (725)   151  (17)      (876)     233  (21)     (1,109) Net loans and leases 
   41,101   1,767 
 4       39,334 
     1,576 
 4      37,758   Total earning assets 
   51,598   889  2       50,709 
     2,135 
 4      48,574 Cash and due from banks 
   908   (182) (17)      1,090 
     (346) (24)     1,436 Intangible assets    557   (43) (7)      600      (45) (7)     645 All other assets 
   3,961   (190) (5)      4,151 
     (53) (1)     4,204 Total assets 
$  56,299 $ 625  1 %   $ 55,674 
  $  1,924 
 4 %   $ 53,750 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 
                              Deposits:                                   Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing 
$  12,871$ 671  6 %   $ 12,200 
  $  3,547 
 41 %   $ 8,653     Demand deposits - interest-bearing 
   5,855   44  1       5,811 
     294  5      5,517     Total demand deposits 
   18,726   715  4       18,011 
     3,841 
 27      14,170     Money market deposits 
   15,675   1,774 
 13       13,901 
     579  4      13,322     Savings and other domestic deposits 
   5,029   96  2       4,933 
     198  4      4,735     Core certificates of deposit 
   4,549   (1,672) (27)      6,221 
     (1,481) (19)     7,702   Total core deposits 
   43,979   913  2       43,066 
     3,137 
 8      39,929   Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more 
   306   (20) (6)      326      (139) (30)     465   Brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs 
   1,606   16  1       1,590 
     168  12      1,422   Deposits in foreign offices 
   346   (26) (7)      372      (17) (4)     389 Total deposits    46,237   883  2       45,354 
     3,149 
 7      42,205 Short-term borrowings 
   700   (610) (47)      1,310 
     (745) (36)     2,055 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
   711   413  139       298      187  168      111 Subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
   1,662   (314) (16)      1,976 
     (1,189) (38)      3,165   Total interest-bearing liabilities 
   36,439   (299) (1)      36,738 
     (2,145) (6)     38,883 All other liabilities 
   1,074   9  1       1,065 
     89  9       976 Shareholders' equity 
   5,915   244  4       5,671 
     433  8       5,238 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 
$  56,299 $ 625  1 %   $ 55,674 
  $  1,924 
 4 %   $ 53,750 Continued 
                                       34 
  Table 6 - Consolidated Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Margin Analysis (Continued)
                                         Interest Income / Expense
   Average Rate (2) 
  Fully-taxable equivalent basis (1) 
                              (dollar amounts in millions)
  2013   2012   2011      2013  2012 2011    Assets 
                              Interest-bearing deposits in banks 
$ 0.1$  0.2$  0.1 
 0.15 
%   0.21 
%   0.11 
%    Federal funds sold and securities purchased under 
                   resale agreement
   ---  ------  --- 0.29 
   0.09 
    Loans held for sale    18.9   36.8 12.3 
 3.63 
 3.38 
   4.27 
    Available-for-sale and other securities: 
            Taxable
    148.6   184.3 208.0 
 2.33 
 2.33 
   2.48 
      Tax-exempt
    25.7   17.7 18.3 
 4.56 
 4.14 
   4.28 
    Total available-for-sale and other securities 
   174.2   202.0 226.3 
 2.51 
 2.43 
   2.57 
    Trading account securities 
   0.4   0.9 1.5 
 0.44 
 1.27 
   1.37 
    Held-to-maturity securities - taxable 
   50.2   24.1 11.2 
 2.33 
 2.60 
   2.99 
    Total securities 
   224.8 226.9 239.0 
 2.45 
 2.43 
   2.57 
      Loans and leases: (3)
                      Commercial:
                        Commercial and industrial
    643.7   639.5 585.6 
 3.75 
 4.01 
   4.31 
          Commercial real estate:
                   Construction    23.4   22.9 23.0 
 4.04 
 3.93 
   3.88 
            Commercial    182.6   208.6 222.7 
 4.11 
 4.01 
   3.97 
          Commercial real estate
    206.1   231.5 245.7 
 4.10 
 4.00 
   3.96 
        Total commercial
    849.8   871.0 831.3 
 3.83 
 4.01 
   4.20 
        Consumer:                  Automobile loans and leases
    221.5   214.1 293.2 
 3.90 
 4.73 
   4.99 
          Home equity    345.4   355.9 355.0 
 4.16 
 4.28 
   4.47 
          Residential mortgage    199.6   212.7 213.6 
 3.84 
 4.10 
   4.53 
          Other consumer    27.9   33.3 40.6 
 6.41 
 7.31 
   7.63 
        Total consumer    794.4   815.9 902.4 
 4.05 
 4.41 
   4.73 
      Total loans and leases
    1,644.2
   1,686.8
 1,733.7 
 3.93 
 4.19 
   4.46 
      Total earning assets
 $ 1,888.0
$  1,950.7
$  1,985.1 
 3.66 
%   3.85 
%   4.09 
%      Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
                    Deposits:                       Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing
 $ ---$  ---$  --- ---%   ---%   ---%        Demand deposits - interest-bearing
   2.5   3.6 5.1 
 0.04 
 0.06 
   0.09 
        Total demand deposits
    2.5   3.6 5.1 
 0.01 
 0.02 
   0.04 
        Money market deposits
    38.8   40.2 54.3 
 0.25 
 0.29 
   0.41 
        Savings and other domestic deposits
    13.3   18.9 32.7 
 0.26 
 0.38 
   0.69 
        Core certificates of deposit
    50.5   85.0 150.0 
 1.11 
 1.37 
   1.95 
      Total core deposits
    105.2   147.7 242.2 
 0.34 
 0.48 
   0.77 
      Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more
    1.4   2.1 4.5 
 0.47 
 0.66 
   0.97 
      Brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs
    9.1   11.7 12.5 
 0.57 
 0.74 
   0.88 
      Deposits in foreign offices
    0.5   0.7 0.9 
 0.15 
 0.18 
   0.23 
    Total deposits    116.2   162.2 260.1 
 0.35 
 0.49 
   0.78 
    Short-term borrowings 
   0.7   2.0 3.5 
 0.10 
 0.16 
   0.17 
    Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
   1.1   0.8 0.8 
 0.15 
 0.28 
   0.74 
    Subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
   38.0   54.7 76.7 
 2.29 
 2.77 
   2.42 
      Total interest-bearing liabilities
    156.0   219.7 341.1 
 0.43 
 0.60 
   0.88 
      Net interest income
 $ 1,731.9
 $  1,730.9
$  1,644.1 
        Net interest rate sprea
d           3.23 
 3.25 
   3.21 
      Impact of noninterest-bearing funds on margin
           0.13 
 0.16 
   0.18 
   Net interest margin 
          3.36 
%   3.41 
%   3.38 
%   (1)FTE yields are calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
       (2)Loan and lease and deposit average rates include impact of applicable derivatives, non-deferrable fees, and amortized fees. 
       (3)For purposes of this analysis, nonaccrual loans are 
reflected in the average balances of loans. 
          35 
 2013 vs. 2012 
  Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income for 2013 increased $1
.0 million, or less than 1%, from 2012.  This reflected the 
impact of 4% loan growth, a 5 basis point decrease in the NIM to
 3.36%, as well as a 7% reduction in other earnings assets, the
 majority of which were loans held fo
r sale.  The primary items impacti
ng the decrease in the NIM were: 
  19 basis point negative impact from the mix and yield of earn
ing assets primarily reflecting a decrease in consumer loan 
yields. 
  3 basis point decrease in the benefit to the margin of non-inter
est bearing funds, reflecting lower interest rates on total int
erest bearing liabilities from the prior year.  
 
Partially offset by:   14 basis point positive impact 
from the mix and yield of deposits reflecting 
the strategic focus on
 changing the funding 
sources from higher rate time deposits to no-cost 
demand deposits and low-cost money market deposits. 
  3 basis point positive impact from noncore funding primarily reflecting lower debt costs.  
 Average earning assets increased $0.9 billion, or 2%, from the prior year, driven by: 
  $1.2 billion, or 8%, increase in average C&I 
loans and leases.  This reflected the co
ntinued growth within the middle market 
healthcare vertical, equipment finance, and dealer floorplan. 
  $1.2 billion, or 25%, increase in 
average on balance sheet automob
ile loans, as the growth 
in originations, while below 
industry levels, remained strong and our investments in the 
Northeast and upper Midwest continued to grow as planned.  
 Partially offset by:   $0.8 billion, or 13%, decrease in 
average CRE loans, as acceptab
le returns for new originations were balanced against 
internal concentration limits and increased competition for projects sponsore
d by high quality developers.  
  $0.6 billion, or 52%, decrease in loans held-for-sale reflecting th
e impact of automobile loan securitizations completed in 
2012. 
 While there was minimal impact on the full-year
 average balance sheet, $1.9 billion of n
et investment securities were purchased
 during the 2013 fourth quarter.  Our inve
stment securities portfolio is evaluated under established asset/liability management 
objectives. Additionally, $0.6 billion of direct 
purchase municipal instruments were recla
ssified on December 31, 2013 from C&I
 loans to available-for-sale securities.  Average noninterest bearing deposits increased $0.7 billion, or 6%, 
while average interest-bearing liabilities decreased $0.3 
billion, or 1%, from 2012, primarily reflecting: 
  $1.7 billion, or 27%, decrease in average core certificates of deposit due to the strategic focus on changing the funding 

sources to no-cost demand deposits and low-cost money market deposits. 
  $0.6 billion, or 47%, decrease in short-term borrowings due 
to a focused effort to reduce collateralized deposits. 
 Partially offset by:   $1.8 billion, or 13%, increase in money market 
deposits reflecting the strategic focus 
on customer growth and increased share 
of wallet among both consumer and commercial customers. 
 While there was minimal impact on the full-year average balance sh
eet, average subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
reflect the issuance of $0.5 billion and $0.8
 billion of long-term debt in the 2013 
fourth quarter and the 
2013 third quarter, 
respectively.  
  36 
  2012 vs. 2011 
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income for 2012 increase
d $86.8 million, or 5%, from 2011.  This reflected the favorable 
impact of a $2.1 billion, or 4%, in
crease in average earning assets, partially offs
et by a 3 basis point decline in the net int
erest margin. 
 The increase in average earning assets reflected: 
  $1.9 billion, or 10%, incr
ease in average commer
cial loans and leases.   $0.8 billion, or 277% increase in average loans held for sale. 
 
Partially offset by: 
  $0.6 billion, or 3% decrease in average co
nsumer loans including a $1.4 billion,
 or 23%, decrease in 
automobile loans, 
reflecting $2.5 billion of automobile 
loans sold throughout the year. 
          
The 3 basis point increase in the FTE net interest margin reflected: 
  The positive impact of a 29 basis poi
nt decline in total deposit costs. 
 Partially offset by: 
  24 basis point declines in the yield on earnings assets an
d a 2 basis point decrease relate
d to non-deposit funding and 
other items. 
 The $3.1 billion, or 8%, increase 
in average total core deposits 
from the prior year reflected: 
  $3.8 billion, or 27%, increase 
in total demand deposits.  
  $0.6 billion, or 4%, increase in money market deposits. 
 
Partially offset by: 
  $1.5 billion, or 19%, decrease in 
core certificates of deposits.  
 Provision for Credit Losses 
(This section should be read in conjunction with the Credit Risk section.)
  The provision for credit losses is the expense necessary to maintain the ALLL and the AULC at levels appropriate to absorb our 
estimate of inherent credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio and the portfolio of unfunded 
loan commitments and letters-o
f-credit. 
 The provision for credit losses in
 2013 was $90.0 million, down
 $57.3 million, or 39%, from 
2012, reflecting a $153.8 million, 
or 
45%, decrease in NCOs.  The provision for credit losses in
 2013 was $98.6 million less than
 total NCOs.  In addition, as a resu
lt of a 
review of the existing consumer portfolios, 2013 also includes $22
.8 million of Chapter 7 bankruptcy-related losses that were n
ot 
identified in the 2012 third quarter implem
entation of the OCC™s regulatory guidance. 
(see Credit Quality discussion)  37 
 Noninterest Income 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Items 4 and 6.) 
 The following table reflects noninterest income for the past three years:
  Table 7 - Noninterest Income 
                                      Twelve Months Ended December 31,
          Change from 2012
      Change from 2011 
   (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 Amount Percent 
 2012  Amount 
Percent 
 2011    Service charges on deposit accounts  
$ 271,802 
$  9,623 
  4%  $ 262,179 
$   18,672 
   8 %  $ 243,507 
  Mortgage banking income 
   126,855 
  (64,237)  (34)     191,092 
   107,684 
   129      83,408 
  Trust services  
   123,007 
  1,110 
  1     121,897 
   2,515 
   2      119,382 
  Electronic banking 
   92,591 
  10,301 
  13     82,290 
   (29,407)   (26)     111,697 
  Insurance income 
   69,264 
  (2,055)  (3)     71,319 
   1,849 
   3      69,470 
  Brokerage income 
   69,189 
  (3,037)  (4)     72,226 
   (8,141)   (10)     80,367 
  Bank owned life insurance income 
   56,419 
  377   1     56,042 
   (6,294)   (10)     62,336 
  Capital markets fees 
   45,220 
  (2,940)  (6)   48,160 
   11,620 
   32      36,540 
  Gain on sale of loans 
   18,171 
  (40,011)  (69)     58,182 
   26,238 
   82      31,944 
  Securities gains (losses) 
   418   (4,351)  (91)   4,769 
   8,450 
  N.R.      (3,681)  Other income  
   125,059 
  (4,642)  (4)     129,701 
   (15,952)   (11)     145,653 
Total noninterest income 
$ 997,995 
$  (99,862)  (9)%  $  1,097,857 
$   117,234 
   12 %  $ 980,623 
N.R. - Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a loss in prior period compared with income in current period. 
 2013 vs. 2012 
  Noninterest income decreased $99.9 million, or 9%, from the prior year, primarily reflecting: 
  $64.2 million, or 34%, decrease in
 mortgage banking income primarily driven by
 9% reduction in volume
, lower gain on sale 
margin, and a higher percentage of originations held on the balance sheet. 
  $40.0 million, or 69%, decrease in gain on sale of loans as no auto 
loan securitizations occurred in
 2013 compar
ed to $2.3 
billion of auto loan 
securitizations in 2012. 
  $4.6 million, or 4%, decrease in other income as the prior year
 included an $11.2 million bargain purchase gain associated 
with the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank acquisition partially offset
 by an increase in fees a
ssociated with commercial loan activity.     $4.4 million, or 91%, decrease in securities gains as the prior
 year had certain securities designated as available-for-sale th
at were sold and the proceeds from those sales were 
reinvested into the held
-to-maturity portfolio.  
  Partially offset by: 
  $10.3 million, or 13%, increase in 
electronic banking income due to con
tinued consumer ho
usehold growth. 
  $9.6 million, or 4%, increase in service charges on deposit accounts reflecting 8% consumer household and 6% commercial 
relationship growth and changing customer usage patterns.  Th
is more than offset the approximately $28.0 million negative 
impact of the February 2013 implementation of a ne
w posting order for consumer transaction accounts. 
  2012 vs. 2011 
 Noninterest income increased $117.2 million, or
 12%, from the prior year, primarily reflecting: 
  $107.7 million, or 129%, increase in mortgage banking inco
me.  This primarily reflected a $78.6 million increase in 
origination and secondary mark
eting income. Additionally, we 
recorded a $14.3 million net 
trading gain related to MSR 
hedging in 2012 compared to a net trading loss related to MSR hedging of $11.9 million in 2011. 
  $26.2 million, or 82%, increase 
in gain on sale of loans. 
38 
   $18.7 million, or 8%, increase in service charges on 
deposits, due to continue
d strong customer growth. 
  $11.6 million, or 32%, increase in capital mar
ket fees primarily reflecting strong cust
omer demand for derivatives and other 
risk management products. 
  Partially offset by: 
  $29.4 million, or 26%, decrease in electronic
 banking income related to implementing the lower debit card interchange fee 
structure mandated in the Durbin Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act. 
  $16.0 million, or 11%, decrease 
in other income, primarily related to a decrea
se in automobile oper
ating lease income and 
partially offset by the bargain purchase ga
in from the Fidelity Bank acquisition.  
 Noninterest Expense 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significa
nt Items 1, 2, 5, and 7.) 
 The following table reflects noninterest expense for the past three years: 
 Table 8 - Noninterest Expense
                                         Twelve Months Ended December 31, 
         Change from 2012
     Change from 2011 
    (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013    Amount 
 Percent 
 2012  Amount 
Percent 
 2011    Personnel costs  
$ 1,001,637 
 $  13,444  1 %  $  988,193 
$   95,659 
   11%  $  892,534 
  Outside data processing and other 
services     199,547 
   9,292  5       190,255 
   1,081 
   1      189,174 
  Net occupancy  
   125,344 
   14,184  13       111,160 
   2,031 
   2      109,129 
  Equipment     106,793 
   3,846  4       102,947 
   10,403 
   11      92,544 
  Marketing  
   51,185 
   (13,078)  (20)      64,263 
   (1,297)   (2)      65,560 
  Deposit and other insurance expense  
   50,161 
   (18,169)  (27)      68,330 
   (9,362)   (12)      77,692 
  Amortization of intangibles  
   41,364 
   (5,185)  (11)      46,549 
   (6,769)   (13)      53,318 
  Professional services  
   40,587 
   (25,171)  (38)      65,758 
   (2,858)   (4)      68,616 
  Gain on early extinguishment of debt  
   ---   798  (100)      (798)   8,899 
   (92)      (9,697)  Other expense  
   141,385 
   (57,834)  (29)      199,219 
   9,589 
   5      189,630 
Total noninterest expense 
$  1,758,003 
 $  (77,873)  (4)%  $  1,835,876 
$  107,376 
   6%  $  1,728,500 
Number of employees (average full-time 
equivalent) 
   11,964 
   470  4 %     11,494 
   96    1%     11,398 
 2013 vs. 2012
  Noninterest expense decreased
 $77.9 million, or 4%, from 2012, and primarily reflected: 
  $57.8 million, or 29%, decline in other e
xpense, reflecting a reduction in litigati
on expense, mortgage
 repurchases and warranty expense, OREO and foreclosure costs,
 and reduction in operating lease expense. 
  $25.2 million, or 38%, decrease in professional services, refle
cting a decrease in outside co
nsultant expenses and legal 
services, primarily collections. 
  $18.2 million, or 27%, decrease in deposit and other insurance expense due to lower insurance premiums. 

  $13.1 million, or 20%, decrease in marketing, primarily reflecting lower levels of advertis
ing, and reduced promotional 
offers. 

  $5.2 million, or 11%, decrease due to the continue
d amortization of core deposit intangibles.  
  39 
   Partially offset by: 
  $14.2 million, or 13%, increase in net occupancy expense, refl
ecting $12.1 million of franchise
 repositioning expense related 
to branch consolidation and facilities optimization. 
  $13.4 million, or 1%, increase in perso
nnel costs, primarily reflecting the $38.8 
million increase in salaries due to a 4% 
increase in the number of average full-time equivalent employees as employee count increased mainly in technology and 
consumer areas and $6.7 million of franchi
se repositioning expense related to branch consolidation and severance expenses.  
This was partially offset by the $33.9 million one-time, no
n-cash gain related to the pension curtailment. 
  $9.3 million, or 5%, increase in outside data processing as we
 continue to invest in tec
hnology supporting our products, 
services, and our Continuous Improvement initiatives. 
  $3.9 million, or 4%, increase in equipment, including $2.4 
million of branch consolidation and facilities optimization related 
expenses. 
 2012 vs. 2011
 Noninterest expense increased $107.4 million, or 6%, from
 2011 and primarily reflected: 
 $95.7 million, or 11%, increase in personn
el costs, primarily reflecting an increas
e in bonuses, commissions, and full-time 
equivalent employees, as well as increased salaries and benefits. 
  $10.4 million, or 11%, increase in equi
pment, primarily reflecting the impact 
of depreciation from our in-store branch 
expansions and other technology investments. 
  $9.3 million, or 5%, increase in other expense primarily refl
ecting higher litigation reserves, 
increased sponsorships and 
public relations expense, and an increase in the provision for mortgage representations and warranties. 
  Partially offset by: 
  $9.4 million, or 12%, decline in deposit and other insurance expense. 
 Provision for Income Taxes 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Item 3, and Note 17 
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Stateme
nts.) 
  2013 versus 2012 
 The provision for income taxes was $215.8 million for 2013 compar
ed with a provision for income taxes of $184.1 million in 2012
. Both years included the benefits from tax-e
xempt income, tax-advantaged investments,
 and general business credits.  In 2013, a 
$6.0 
million reduction in the 2013 provision for 
state income taxes, net of federal, was re
corded for the portion of state deferred 
tax assets and state net operating loss carryforwards that are more likely than not to be realized, compared to a $21.3 million reduction 
in 2012.  
At December 31, 2013, we had a net federal and state deferred tax asset of $137.6 million. Based on both positive and negative 

evidence and our level of forecas
ted future taxable income, we determined no impa
irment existed to the net federal and state de
ferred tax asset at December 31, 2013. For regulatory capital purposes, there was no disallowed net deferred tax asset at December 31,
 2013 
and December 31, 2012.  
 
We file income tax returns with
 the IRS and various state, city, and foreign juri
sdictions. Federal income tax audits have been
 completed for tax years through 2009. In the first quarter of 20
13, the IRS began an examination of our 2010 and 2011 consolida
ted federal income tax returns.  We have appealed certain proposed ad
justments resulting from the IR
S examination of our 2006, 2007
, 2008, 2009, and 2010 tax returns. We believe the tax positions taken related to such 
proposed adjustments are correct and suppo
rted by applicable statutes, regulations, and judici
al authority, and intend to vi
gorously defend them.  It is possible the ultimate re
solution of the 
proposed adjustments, if unfavorable, may be
 material to the results of operations 
in the period it occurs. Nevertheless, altho
ugh no 
assurances can be given, we believe the re
solution of these examinations will not, indivi
dually or in the aggregate, have a mat
erial 
adverse impact on our consolidated financial position. Various st
ate and other jurisdictions remain open to examination, includ
ing 
Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylva
nia, West Virginia and Illinois.   
  40 
  On September 13, 2013, the IRS released final tangible property
 regulations under 
Sections 162(a) and 263(a) of the IRC and 
proposed regulations under Section 168 of the IRC. These regulati
ons generally apply to taxable y
ears beginning on or after Jan
uary 1, 2014 and will affect all taxpayers that acquire, produce, or impr
ove tangible property.  Based up
on preliminary analysis, we do
 not 
expect that the adoption of these regulations will have a materi
al impact on the Company™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 2012 versus 2011 
 The provision for income taxes was $184.1 million for 2012 compar
ed with a provision of $164.6 
million in 2011. Both years 
included the benefits from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged inve
stments, and general business credits.  In 2012, a $21.3 milli
on reduction in the 2012 pr
ovision for state income taxes, net of federal, wa
s recorded for the portion of state deferred tax asse
ts and state net operating loss carryforwards that are more likely than not to be realized. 
 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL 
 A comprehensive discussion of risk management and capital matte
rs affecting us can be found in the Risk Governance section 
included in Item 1A and the Regulatory Matte
rs section of Item 1of this Form 10-K. 
 Some of the more significant processes used to manage and cont
rol credit, market, liquidity, operational, and compliance risks 
are 
described in the following paragraphs. 
 Credit Risk  
 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a counterparty is no
t able to meet the agreed upon
 terms of the financial obligati
on. The 
majority of our credit risk is associated with lending activities, as the acceptance and management of credit risk is central t
o profitable 
lending.  We also have credit risk associated
 with our AFS and HTM 
securities portfolio 
(see Note 4 and Note 5 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements)
.  We engage with other financial counterpartie
s for a variety of purposes including investing, 
asset and liability management, mortgage banking, and trading 
activities.  While there is credit risk associated with derivativ
e activity, we believe this exposure is minimal.   
 We continue to focus on the id
entification, monitoring, and managing of our cred
it risk.  In addition to
 the traditional credit
 risk 
mitigation strategies of credit policies an
d processes, market risk management activ
ities, and portfolio diversification, we us
e additional quantitative measurement capabilities
 utilizing external data sources, enhanced
 use of modeling technology, and inte
rnal 
stress testing processes.  Our portfolio 
management resources demonstrate our commitm
ent to maintaining an aggregate moderate-t
o-low risk profile.  In our efforts to conti
nue to identify risk mitigation techniques, we
 have focused on product design feature
s, origination policies, and treatment strategies
 for delinquent or stressed borrowers.  
 The maximum level of credit exposure to individual credit borrowers is limited by policy guidelines based on the perceived risk
 of each borrower or related group of borrowers.  All authority to grant commitments is delegated through the independent credit
 administration function and is closely monito
red and regularly updated.  Concentration ri
sk is managed through limits on loan t
ype, geography, industry, and loan quality factors
.  We focus predominantly on
 extending credit to retail and commercial customers w
ith 
existing or expandable relationships within
 our primary banking markets
, although we will consider
 lending opportunities outsid
e our primary markets if we believe the associated risks are acceptable and aligned with strategic initiatives.  Although we offer a 
broad set 
of products, we continue to develop new len
ding products and opportunities.  Each of 
these new products and opportunities goes 
through a rigorous development 
and approval process prior to implementation to
 ensure our overall obje
ctive of maintaining an 
aggregate moderate-to-low risk portfolio profile.  
 
The checks and balances in the credit process and the independ
ence of the credit administration 
and risk management functions 
are designed to appropriately assess and sanction the level of
 credit risk being accepted, fa
cilitate the early recognition of credit 
problems when they occur, and to provide fo
r effective problem asset management and reso
lution.  For example, we do not extend 
additional credit to delinquent borrowers 
except in certain circumstances that subs
tantially improve our overall repayment or c
ollateral coverage position.  To that end, we continue to ex
pand resources in our risk management areas.   
 Although credit quality improved significan
tly in 2013, there remained a degree of economic stress that continued to negatively
 impact us and the financial services industry
 as a whole. We continued to experience 
higher than historical levels of delinquen
cies and 
NCOs in our residential secured Consumer loan portfolios.  Th
e performance metrics associated with the residential mortgage, an
d home equity portfolios continued to be the 
most significantly impacted portfolios as real estate prices remain lower than pre-2
008 
levels, and the unemploym
ent rate remains high.  
  41 
  Loan and Lease Credit Exposure Mix 
 At December 31, 2013, our loans and leases totaled $43.1 billion, representing a $2.4 billion, or 6%, increase compared to $40.
7 billion at December 31, 2012.  The majority 
of the portfolio growth occurred in the 
Automobile portfolio, with C&I and Resident
ial showing modest growth.  Hunti
ngton remained committed to the high quality or
igination strategy in the 
automobile portfolio.  Th
e CRE portfolio declined as a result of continued runoff as acceptable returns for new originations were balanced against interna
l concentration limits and increased competition for projects sponsored by high quality developers. 
 Total commercial loans were $22.4 billion at December 31, 2013, and represented 52% of our total loan and lease credit 
exposure.  Our commercial loan portfolio is diversified along 
product type, customer size, and 
geography within our footprint, 
and is 
comprised of the following (
see Commercial Credit discussion)
:    C&I
 Œ C&I loans and leases are made to commercial customers for 
use in normal business operati
ons to finance working capital 
needs, equipment purchases, or other projects.  The majority of 
these borrowers are customers doing business within our geograp
hic 
regions.  C&I loans and leases are generally underwritten individu
ally and secured with the assets of the company and/or the pe
rsonal 
guarantee of the business owners.  The finan
cing of owner occupied facilities is considered
 a C&I loan even though there is imp
roved 
real estate as collateral.  This treatment is a result of the cr
edit decision process, which focuses on cash flow from operatio
ns of the 
business to repay the debt.  The operation, sale, rental, or refinancing of the real estate is not considered the primary repay
ment source 
for these types of loans.  As we have expanded our C&I portfolio, we have developed a series of ﬁverticalsﬂ to ensure that new 
products or lending types are embedded within a structured, cen
tralized Commercial Lending area with designated experienced cre
dit 
officers.  
CRE Œ CRE loans consist of loans to developers and REITs s
upporting income-producing or 
for-sale commercial real estate properties.  We mitigate our risk on these loans by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount and underwriting th
e loan 
with projected cash flow in excess of the debt service requirement.  These loans are made to finance properties such as apartme
nt 
buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping cen
ters, and are repaid through cash flows related to the opera
tion, sale, 
or refinance of the property.   
 Construction CRE 
 Œ Construction CRE loans are loans to developers, companies, or individuals used for the construction of a 
commercial or residential property 
for which repayment will be generated by the s
ale or permanent financing of the property.  O
ur 
construction CRE portfolio primarily consis
ts of retail, multi family, office, and warehouse project types.  Generally, these l
oans are 
for construction projects that have been pr
esold or preleased, or have secured perman
ent financing, as well as loans to real es
tate companies with significant equity invested in each project.  These loans are underwritten and managed by a specialized real est
ate lending group that actively monitors the construction phase and manages the loan disbursements according to the predetermined 

construction schedule.   
 Total consumer loans and leases were $20.7 billion at December 31, 
2013, and represented 48% of 
our total loan and lease credit exposure.  The consumer portfo
lio is comprised primarily of automobile, home 
equity loans and lines-of-credit, and residential 
mortgages 
(see Consumer Credit discussion)
.    
 Automobile Œ Automobile loans are primarily co
mprised of loans made through automotive dealerships and include exposure in 
selected states outside of our primary bank
ing markets.  The exposure outside of our 
primary banking markets represents 19% of 
the 
total exposure, with no indi
vidual state representing more than 5%.   Appl
ications are underwritten
 utilizing an automated 
underwriting system that applies consistent 
policies and processes across the portfolio.   
 Home equity
 Œ Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and 
lines-of-credit.  This type of lending, which is secured 
by a first-lien or junior-lien on the borrower
™s residence, allows customers to borrow against th
e equity in their home or refi
nance 
existing mortgage debt.  Products include 
closed-end loans which are generally fixed-
rate with principal and interest payments,
 and variable-rate, interest-only lines-of-credit which do not require 
payment of principal during th
e 10-year revolving period.  Th
e home 
equity line of credit product converts to
 a 20 year amortizing structure at the end of the revolving period.  Applications are 
underwritten centrally in conjunction with an automated underwr
iting system.  The home equity underwriting criteria is based on
 minimum credit scores, debt-to-income ratios, an
d LTV ratios, with current collateral valuations.  
  Residential mortgage
 Œ Residential mortgage loans represent loans to consum
ers for the purchase or refinance of a residence.  
These loans are generally financed over a 15-year to 30-year term, and in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance thei
r primary residence.  Applications are under
written centrally using consistent credit policies
 and processes.  All residential mo
rtgage 
loan decisions utilize a full ap
praisal for collateral valuation.  Huntington has 
not originated residential mortgages that all
ow negative 
amortization or allow the borrower multiple payment options. 
 42 
 Other consumer loans/leases
 Œ Primarily consists of consumer loans not secured by real estate, including personal unsecured 
loans.  We introduced a consumer credit 
card product during 2013, utilizing a centralized underwriting system and focusing on 
existing Huntington customers. 
 The table below provides the composition of our total loan and lease portfolio: 
 Table 9 - Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition
             At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 2013  2012  2011   2010   2009  Commercial:
(1)                       Commercial and industrial
 $ 17,594 
 41 % $ 16,971 
 42 % $ 14,699 
 38 % $  13,063 
 34 %  $  12,888 
 35 %   Commercial real estate: 
                       Construction 
   557  1     648  2      580  1      650  2      1,469 
 4       Commercial 
   4,293 
 10     4,751 
 12      5,246 
 13      6,001 
 16      6,220 
 17     Total commercial real estate 
   4,850 
 11     5,399 
 14      5,826 
 14      6,651 
 18      7,689 
 21   Total commercial 
   22,444 
 52     22,370 
 56      20,525 
 52      19,714 
 52      20,577 
 56   Consumer:                      Automobile
(2)    6,639 
 15     4,634 
 11      4,458 
 11      5,614 
 15      3,390 
 9     Home equity    8,336 
 19     8,335 
 20      8,215 
 21      7,713 
 20      7,563 
 21     Residential mortgage    5,321 
 12     4,970 
 12      5,228 
 13      4,500 
 12      4,510 
 12     Other consumer 
   380  2     419  1      498  3      566  1      751  2   Total consumer 
   20,676 
 48     18,358 
 44      18,399 
 48      18,393 
 48      16,214 
 44   Total loans and leases 
$  43,120 
 100 % $  40,728 
 100 % $  38,924 
 100 % $  38,107 
 100 %  $  36,791 
 100 %   (1) As defined by regulatory guidance, there were no commercial loans outstanding that would be considered a concentration of lendi
ng to a 
particular industry or group of industries. 
  (2) 2011 included a decrease of $1.3 billion resulting from the transfer of automobile loans to loans held for a sale reflecting an
 automobile 
securitization transaction completed in 2012.  2010 included an increase of $0.5 billion resulting from the adoption of a new a
ccounting 
standard to consolidate a previously off-balance sheet automobile loan securitization transaction. 
 As shown in the table above, our loan portfolio is diversified 
by consumer and commercial credit. We manage the credit exposure
 via a corporate level credit concentration policy.  The policy designates specific loan types, collateral types, and loan struc
tures to be 
formally tracked and assigned limits as a percentage of capital.  C&I lending by segment, specific limits for CRE primary proje
ct types, loans secured by residential real estate, shared nationa
l credit exposure, unsecured lending, and designated high risk l
oan 
definitions represent examples of specifica
lly tracked components of our concentration 
management process.  Our concentration 
management process is approved by our board level Risk Oversight Committee an
d is one of the strategie
s utilized to ensure a hi
gh 
quality, well diversified portfolio that is 
consistent with our overall ob
jective of maintaining an ag
gregate moderate-to-low r
isk profile. 
 The table below provides our total 
loan and lease port
folio segregated by the primary type
 of collateral securing the loan or l
ease:  Table 10 - Total Loan and Lease 
Portfolio by Collateral Type          At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 2013  2012  2011  2010  2009  Secured loans: 
                                         Real estate - commercial 
$  8,622 
 20 % $  9,128 
 22 % $  9,557 
 25 % $  10,389 
 27 %  $  11,286 
 31 %   Real estate - consumer 
 13,657 
 32    13,305 
 33    13,444 
 35    12,214 
 32    12,176 
 33     Vehicles 
 8,989 
 21    6,659 
 16    6,021 
 15    7,134 
 19    4,600 
 13     Receivables/Inventory 
 5,534 
 13    5,178 
 13    4,450 
 11    3,763 
 10    3,582 
 10     Machinery/Equipment 
 2,738 
 6    2,749 
 7    1,994 
 5    1,766 
 5    1,772 
 5     Securities/Deposits 
   786  2     826  2      800  2      734  2      1,145 
 3     Other    1,016 
 2     1,090 
 3      1,018 
 3      990  2      1,124 
 2   Total secured loans and leases 
 41,342 
 96    38,935 
 96    37,284 
 96    36,990 
 97    35,685 
 97   Unsecured loans and leases 
   1,778 
 4     1,793 
 4      1,640 
 4      1,117 
 3      1,106 
 3   Total loans and leases 
$ 43,120 
 100 % $ 40,728 
 100 % $ 38,924 
 100 % $ 38,107 
 100 %  $ 36,791 
 100 % 43 
 Commercial Credit 
 The primary factors considered in commercial credit approvals are the financial strength of the borrower, assessment of the 
borrower™s management capabilities, cash flow
s from operations, industry sector trends, type and sufficiency of collateral, typ
e of exposure, transaction structure, and the general economic outlook
.  While these are the primary factors considered, there are a
 number 
of other factors that may be considered in the decision proce
ss.  We utilize a centralized preview and senior loan approval com
mittee, led by our chief credit officer.  The risk rating 
(see next paragraph) 
and complexity of the credit determines the threshold for approval 
of the senior loan committee with a minimum credit exposure of $10.0 million.   For 
loans not requiring senior loan committee 
approval, with the exception of small busines
s loans, credit officers who understand each local region and are experienced in t
he industries and loan structures of the reques
ted credit exposure are involved in all lo
an decisions and have the primary credit 
authority.  
For small business loans, we utilize a centr
alized loan approval process for standard produ
cts and structures.  In this central
ized decision environment, certain individuals who understand each lo
cal region may make credit-extension decisions to preserve our 
commitment to the communities we operate in.  In additi
on to disciplined and consistent judgmental factors, a sophisticated cre
dit 
scoring process is used as a primary evaluation tool in the deter
mination of approving a loan w
ithin the centralized loan appro
val process.  
  In commercial lending, on-going credit management is dependent on
 the type and nature of the lo
an. We monitor all significant 
exposures on an on-going basis.  All commercial credit extensions are assigned internal risk ratings reflecting the borrower™s 
PD and 
LGD. This two-dimensional rating methodology
 provides granularity in the portfolio ma
nagement process. The PD is rated and 
applied at the borrower level. The 
LGD is rated and applied based on the specif
ic type of credit extension
 and the quality and lien position associated with the underlying collateral.  The interna
l risk ratings are assessed at origination and updated at each 
periodic 
monitoring event. There is also extensive macro portfolio manageme
nt analysis on an on-going basi
s.  We continually review and 
adjust our risk-rating criteria based on actual experience, which prov
ides us with the current ri
sk level in the portfolio and 
is the basis 
for determining an appropriate allowance for credit losses (ACL) 
amount for the commercial portfo
lio.  A centralized portfolio 
management team monitors and 
reports on the performance of 
the entire commercial portfolio, incl
uding small business loans, to 
provide consistent oversight.   
 In addition to the initial credit an
alysis conducted during the approval process, 
our Credit Review group performs testing to 
provide an independent review and assessment of the quality and / or
 risk of new loan originations.  This group is part of our 
Risk Management area, and conducts portfolio reviews on a risk-based cycle to evaluate individual loans, validate risk ratings, as w
ell as test the consistency of credit processes.   
 
Our standardized loan grading system c
onsiders many components that directly co
rrelate to loan quality
 and likelihood of repayment, one of which is guaran
tor support.  On an annual basis, or more frequently if warranted, we consider, among other th
ings, 
the guarantor™s reputation and creditworthiness, along with various
 key financial metrics such as liquidity and net worth, assu
ming 
such information is available.  Our assessment of the guarantor™s 
credit strength, or lack thereo
f, is reflected in our risk ra
tings for such loans, which is directly tied
 to, and an integral component of
, our ACL methodology.  When a 
loan goes to impaired status,
 viable guarantor support is considered in the determination of a credit loss.   

 If our assessment of the guarantor™s credit st
rength yields an inherent capacity to pe
rform, we will seek repayment from the 
guarantor as part of the collection process and have done so successfully.  However, we do not formally track the repayment suc
cess 
from guarantors. 
 Substantially all loans categorized as Classified 
(see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements)
 are managed by our 
Special Assets Department (SAD).  The SAD group is a specializ
ed group of credit professionals that handle the day-to-day 
management of workouts, commercial recoveries, and problem loan sales.  Its responsib
ilities include developing and implementin
g action plans, assessing risk ratings, and determining the appr
opriateness of the allowance, the accrual status, and the ultimat
e collectability of the Classified loan portfolio.   
 C&I PORTFOLIO  The C&I portfolio is comprised 
of loans to businesses where the source of repaym
ent is associated with the on-going operations 
of the business.  Generally, the loans are secured with the financing of the borrower™s assets, such as equipment, accounts rec
eivable, 
and/or inventory.  In many cases, the 
loans are secured by real estate, although the operation, sale, or refinancing of the rea
l estate is not a primary source of repayment for the loan.  For loans secured by real estate, appropriate appraisals are obtained at origi
nation and 
updated on an as needed basis in compliance with regulatory requirements.  
   44 
 There were no commercial loan segmen
ts considered an industry or
 geographic concentration of le
nding.  Currently, higher-risk 
segments of the C&I portfolio include loans to borrowers suppo
rting the home building industry
, contractors, and leveraged lend
ing.  We manage the risks inherent in this po
rtfolio through origination 
policies, a defined loan concentration policy with establish
ed limits, on-going loan level reviews and portfolio level reviews, recourse requirements, and continuous po
rtfolio risk management activi
ties.  Our origination policies for this portfolio include loan product-type specific policies such as LTV and debt service coverage r
atios, as applicable.   
 The C&I portfolio continues to ha
ve strong origination activity as evidenced by the 
growth over the past 
12 months.  The credit
 quality of the portfolio continues to improve
 as we maintain focus on high quality ori
ginations.  Problem loans have trended 
downward, reflecting a combination of proactive ri
sk identification and effective workout strategies implemented by the SAD.  W
e continue to maintain a proactive ap
proach to identifying bo
rrowers that may be facing financia
l difficulty in order to maximize
 the potential solutions. 
 CRE PORTFOLIO  We manage the risks inherent in this portfolio specific to CRE lending, focusing on the quality of the developer and the specif
ics associated with each project.  Generally, we:  (1) limit our loans to 80% of the appraised value of the commercial real estate 
at origination, (2) require net operating cash flows to be 125% of re
quired interest and principal payments, and (3) if the commer
cial real estate is nonowner occupied, 
require that at least 50% of the space 
of the project be preleased. 
 We actively monitor both geog
raphic 
and project-type concentrations and performance metrics of all CRE loan
 types, with a focus on loan
s identified as higher risk 
based on the risk rating methodology.  Both macro-level and loan-level stress-test scenarios based on existing and forecast market co
nditions are part of the on-going portfolio mana
gement process for the CRE portfolio. 
 Dedicated real estate professionals originated 
the majority of the portfolio, with th
e remainder obtained 
from prior bank 
acquisitions.  Appraisals are obtained from 
approved vendors, and are reviewed by an
 internal appraisal review group comprised 
of 
certified appraisers to ensure the quality of the valuation used in
 the underwriting process.  Th
e portfolio is diversified by 
project type 
and loan size, and this diversification represents a significant por
tion of the credit risk management strategies employed for 
this 
portfolio.  Subsequent to the origination of the loan, the Credit 
Review group performs testing to
 provide an independent revie
w and 
assessment of the quality of the underwriting a
nd/or risk of new loan originations.   
 Appraisal values are obtained in conjunction with all originations and renewa
ls, and on an as needed 
basis, in compliance with 
regulatory requirements.  We continue to perform on-going port
folio level reviews within the CRE
 portfolio.  These reviews gene
rate 
action plans based on occupancy levels or sales volume associated
 with the projects being reviewed.  Property values are update
d using appraisals on a regular basis to ensu
re appropriate decisions regarding the on-g
oing management of the portfolio reflect 
the 
changing market conditions.  This
 highly individualized process re
quires working closely with a
ll of our borrowers, as well as 
an in-
depth knowledge of CRE project lending and the market environment.  
 Consumer Credit  Consumer credit approvals are based on, among other factors, the 
financial strength and payment hi
story of the borrower, type o
f exposure, and the transaction st
ructure.  Consumer credit decisions are generally made in a centralized environment utilizing d
ecision models.   Importantly, certain individuals wh
o understand each local region have the 
authority to make credit extension decisio
ns to 
preserve our focus on the local communities 
we operate in.  Each credit extension is 
assigned a specific PD and LGD. The PD is 
generally based on the borrower™s most recent credit bureau score
 (FICO), which we update quarterly, while the LGD is related t
o the 
type of collateral and the LTV ratio associated with the credit extension.   
 In consumer lending, credit risk is managed from a segment (i.e
., loan type, collateral position, geography, etc.) and vintage 
performance analysis. All portfolio segments
 are continuously monitored for changes in
 delinquency trends and other asset quali
ty indicators.   We make extensive use of portfolio assessment models
 to continuously monitor the quality of the portfolio, which 
may 
result in changes to future origination strategies.  The on-going analysis and review 
process results in a determination of an 
appropriate ALLL amount for our consumer loan portfolio.  The independent risk ma
nagement group has a consumer process review 
component to ensure the effectiveness and effi
ciency of the consumer
 credit processes.   
 
Collection action is initiated as needed through a centrally managed collection and recovery function. The collection group 
employs a series of collection methodologies designed to maintain
 a high level of effectiveness while maximizing efficiency. In
 addition to the consumer loan portfo
lio, the collection group is responsible for 
collection activity on all sold and securitize
d consumer 
loans and leases.  Collection practices include a single contact point 
for the majority of the residential real estate secured 
portfolios.    
 45 
 During a 2013 review of our consumer portfolios, we identified additional loans a
ssociated with borrowers who had filed Chapter
 7 bankruptcy and had not reaffirmed their debt, thus meeting the 
definition of collateral dependen
t per OCC regulatory guidance
.  These loans were not identified in the 2012 third quarter implementation of the O
CC™s regulatory guidance.  The bankruptcy cour
t™s discharge of the borrower™s debt is considered a concession when
 the discharged debt is not reaffirmed, and as such, the loan i
s placed 
on nonaccrual status, and written down to collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.  As a result of the review of our e
xisting 
consumer portfolios, additional NCOs of $22.8 million were recorded
 in 2013.  The majority of 
the NCO impact was in the home 
equity portfolio and relates to junior-lie
n loans that meet the regulatory guidance. 
 AUTOMOBILE PORTFOLIO 
 Our strategy in the automobile portfolio continued to focus on high qua
lity borrowers as measured by
 both FICO 
and internal custom scores, combined with appropriate LTVs, terms, and 
profitability.  Our strategy and 
operational capabilities allow us to
 appropriately manage the origination quality acr
oss the entire portfolio, including our 
newer markets.  Alth
ough increased orig
ination volume and entering new markets can be associated with increased 
risk levels, we believe our disc
iplined strategy and operation
al processes significantly 
mitigate these risks. 
 We have continued to consistently execute our value proposition and take 
advantage of available market opportunities.  
Importantly, we have maintained our high credit quality standard while expanding the po
rtfolio.  We have developed and implemen
ted 
a successful loan securitization strategy to ensure we remain within our established portfolio concentration limits. 

 
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE SECURED PORTFOLIOS 
 The properties securing our residential mort
gage and home equity portfolios are primari
ly located within our geographic footpri
nt. 
While home prices have clearly rebounded from the 2009-2010 levels, th
ey remain below the peak, cau
sing the performance in thes
e portfolios to remain weaker than historical
 levels.  The residential-secu
red portfolio originations con
tinue to be of high qual
ity, with 
the majority of the negative credit impact 
coming from loans originated in
 2006 and earlier.  We continue to evaluate all of ou
r policies and processes associated with managing these portfolios.  Ou
r portfolio management strategi
es associated with our Home
 Savers group are consolidated in one location under common manage
ment.  This structure allows us to focus on effectively helpin
g our customers with appropriate solutions for their specific circumstances. 
 Table 11 - Selected Home Equity and Residential Mortgage Portfolio Data
      (dollar amounts in millions)
                   Home Equity Residential Mortgage   Secured by first-lien 
Secured by junior-lien 
    12/31/1312/31/12 12/31/1312/31/12 12/31/1312/31/12 Ending balance 
$4,842 $4,380  $3,494 $3,955  $5,321 $4,970  Portfolio weighted average LTV ratio
(1) 71%71%81%81% 74% 76%Portfolio weighted average FICO score
(2) 758 755 741 741  743  738                 Home Equity Residential Mortgage (3) 
  Secured by first-lien
 Secured by junior-lien 
    Year Ended December 31,
   2013 2012  2013 2012  2013 2012  Originations 
$1,745 $1,665  $529 $559  $1,625 $1,019  Origination weighted average LTV ratio
(1) 69%72%81%80% 79% 84%Origination weighted average FICO score
(2) 771 771 756 756  757  754 (1) The LTV ratios for home equity loans and home equity lines-of-credit are cumulative and reflect the balance of any senior l
oans.  LTV ratios 
reflect collateral values at the time of loan origination. 
(2) Portfolio weighted average FICO scores reflect currently updated customer credit scores whereas origination weighted averag
e FICO scores 
reflect the customer credit scores at the time of loan origination. 
(3) Represents only owned-portfolio originations. 
   46 
 Home Equity Portfolio 
 Our home equity portfolio (loans 
and lines-of-credit) consists of both first-lien and junior
-lien mortgage loans with underwrit
ing 
criteria based on minimum credit scores, debt-to-income ratios, an
d LTV ratios.  We offer closed-end home equity loans which ar
e generally fixed-rate with principal and interest payments, and 
variable-rate interest-only hom
e equity lines-of-credit which do
 not 
require payment of principal during the 10-year revolving peri
od of the line-of-credit.  Ap
plications are underwritten centrall
y in 
conjunction with an automated underwriting system.    
 Given the low interest rate environment over the past several 
years, many borrowers have utilized the line-of-credit home equit
y product as the primary source of financing their home versus re
sidential mortgages.  The proportion of the home equity portfoli
o secured by a first-lien has increased significantly over the past
 three years, positively impacting the portfolio™s risk profil
e.  At 
December 31, 2013, $4.8 billion or 58% of our total home equity portfolio was secured by first-lien mortgages compared to 52% i
n the prior year.  The first-lien position, combined with continue
d high average FICO scores, si
gnificantly reduces the credit ri
sk 
associated with these loans.   
 
We focus on high quality borrowers primaril
y located within our footprint
.  Further, we actively manage the extension of credit
 and the amount of credit extended through
 a combination of criteria including fina
ncial position, debt-to-income policies, and 
LTV policy limits.   The combination of 
high quality borrowers as measured by financ
ial condition and FICO score, as well as the 
concentration of first-lien position loans, provides a high de
gree of confidence regarding the 
performance of the 2009-2013 
originations. Because we focus on developing complete relationships with our customers, many of our home equity borrowers utili
ze other products and services.  
Also, the majority of ou
r home equity line-of-cre
dit borrowers consistently pay in excess of the required 
minimum payment each month. 

 We believe we have underwritten cr
edit conservatively within this
 portfolio.  However, home pr
ice volatility has decreased the 
value of the collateral for this po
rtfolio and has caused a portion of the portfolio to have an LTV greater than 100%.  These h
igher 
LTV ratios are directly correlated with borrower payment p
atterns and are a fo
cus of our Home Saver group.   
 Real estate market values at the time of origination directly a
ffect the amount of credit extended and, in the event of default
, subsequent changes in these values impact the severity of lo
sses.  We obtain a property valuati
on for every loan or line-of-cre
dit as part of the origination process, and the va
luation is reviewed by a real estate prof
essional in conjunction with the credit und
erwriting process.  The type of property valuation 
obtained is based on credit parameters, and a majority of these valuations are based o
n complete walkthrough apprais
als.  We believe an AVM estimate with a signed prope
rty inspection is an appropriate valuation sour
ce for a portion of our home equity lending activities.  This va
luation policy, along with our other credit policies, are re-evalu
ated on an 
on-going basis with the intent of ensuring
 complete independence in the requesting an
d reviewing of real estate valuations asso
ciated with loan decisions.  We update
 values as appropriate, and in compliance with applicable regul
ations, particularly for loans id
entified as higher risk.  Loans are identified as 
higher risk based on performance indicators 
and the updated values are utilized to fac
ilitate our portfolio management processes, as well as 
our workout and loss mitigation functions.   
 We continue to make origination policy ad
justments based on our assessment of an appropriate risk profile and industry actions
.  In addition to origination policy adjustments, we take actions, as necessary, to manage the risk profile of this portfolio.  We
 believe our Credit Risk Management systems allow 
for effective portfolio analysis and segmentation to iden
tify the highest 
risk exposures in the portfolio.  Our disclosures regardin
g lien position and FICO distribution are ex
amples of segmentation analysis.    
 Although the collateral value asse
ssment is an important component of the overa
ll credit risk analysis, there are very few 
instances of available equity in junior-lien
 default situations.  Further, effective 
in 2012, any junior-lien loan associated w
ith a nonaccruing first-lien loan is also placed on nonaccrual status. 
 Within the home equity line-of-credit portfo
lio, the standard product is a 10-year inte
rest-only draw period with a 20-year ful
ly amortizing term at the end of the draw period.  Prior to 2007, th
e standard product was a 10-year 
draw period with a balloon pa
yment, 
while subsequent originations convert to a 20-year amortizing loan st
ructure.   After the 10-year dr
aw period, the borrower mus
t reapply to extend the existing structure or begin repaying the debt in a traditional term structure.   
 
The principal and interest paymen
t associated with the term structur
e will be higher than the in
terest-only payment, resulting 
in 
ﬁmaturityﬂ risk.  Our maturity risk can be segregated into two dis
tinct segments:  (1) home equity lines-of-credit underwritten
 with a balloon payment at maturity and (2) home equity lines-of-credit with an 
automatic conversion to a 
20-year amortizing loan.  We 
manage this risk based on both the actu
al maturity date of the line-of-credit structure and at the end of the 10-year draw peri
od.  This 
maturity risk is embedded in the portfolio which we address with
 proactive contact strategies be
ginning one year prior to matur
ity.  In certain circumstances, our Home Saver group is
 able to provide payment and structure relief to borrowers experiencing significa
nt 
financial hardship associated with the payment adjustment.    

 47 
 The table below summarizes our home equity
 line-of-credit portfolio by maturity date: 
 Table 12 - Maturity Schedule of Home Equity Line-of-Credit Portfolio
                   December 31, 2013 
                         More than 
    (dollar amounts in millions)
 1 Year or Less
   1 to 2 years 
 2 to 3 years 
 3 to 4 years 
  4 years 
 Total   Secured by first-lien 
$ 52 
  $ 29 
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  2,383 
 $  2,464 
  Secured by junior-lien 
  229 
    216 
   130 
   112 
     2,301 
    2,988 
Total home equity line-of-credit 
$ 281 
  $ 245 
 $130 
 $112 
  $  4,684 
 $  5,452 
 The amounts in the above table maturing in four years or less prima
rily consist of balloon payment structures and represent the
 most significant maturity risk. 
 The amounts maturing in more than four year
s primarily consist of exposure with a 20-year 
amortization period after the 10-year draw period. 
 Historically, less than 30% of our home equity lines-of-credit that are one year or less from maturity actually reach the matur
ity date, and we anticipate this perc
entage will decline in future peri
ods as our proactive approach to 
managing maturity risk cont
inues to 
evolve. 

 Residential Mortgages Portfolio
  We focus on higher quality borrowers and underwrite all applications
 centrally.  We do not originate residential mortgages that
 allow negative amortization or allow the borrower multiple payment 
options.  We have incorporated regulatory requirements and 
guidance into our underwriting process, and 
will continue to evaluate the impact of th
e QM requirements impact on the industry.
    
 All residential mortgages are originated based on a completed fu
ll appraisal during the credit underwriting process.  We update
 values on a regular basis in complian
ce with applicable regulations to facilitate our portfolio management, as well as our work
out and 
loss mitigation functions. 

 Generally, our practice is to sell a significant portion of our fi
xed-rate originations in the secondary market.  As such, at 
December 31, 2013, 46% of our total residential mortgage portfolio were ARMs.  These ARMs primarily consist of a fixed-rate of 

interest for the first 3 to 5 years, and then adjust annually.   At December 31, 2013, ARM loans that were expected to have rat
es reset through 2016 totaled $1.5 billi
on.  These loans scheduled to re
set are primarily associated with
 loans originated subsequent to 2007, and as such, are not subject to the most significant declines in
 underlying property value. Give
n the quality of our borrowers,
 the 
relatively low current interest rates, and the 
results of our continued analysis (includi
ng possible impacts of changes in inte
rest rates), we believe that we have a relatively limited ex
posure to ARM reset risk.  
Nonetheless, we have taken actions to mitigate our ri
sk 
exposure.  We initiate borrower contact at least six months prior to the interest rate resetting and have been successful in co
nverting many ARMs to fixed-rate loans through this process.  Given 
the relatively low current interest rates, many fixed-rate products 
currently offer a better interest rate to our ARM borrowers.  We 
are subject to repurchase risk associated with residential mor
tgage 
loans sold in the secondary market.  An appropriate level of reserve for representations and warranties related to residential 
mortgage 
loans sold has been established to address this repurchase risk
 inherent in the portfolio (see Operational Risk discussion). 
 Several government programs continued to impact the residential mortgage portfolio, including va
rious refinance programs such 
as HAMP and HARP, which positively affected th
e availability of credit for the industry.  Du
ring the year ended December 31, 20
13, 
we closed $600 million in HARP residential mortgages and $6.0 
million in HAMP residential mortgages.  The HARP residential 
mortgage loans are considered current and ar
e either part of our residential mortgage 
portfolio or serviced for others.  The HA
MP refinancings are associated with residential mortgages that are serviced for others.   
 Credit Quality  (This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
 We believe the most meaningful way to a
ssess overall credit quality performance is
 through an analysis of credit quality 
performance ratios.  This approach forms the basis of most of 
the discussion in the sections immediately following: NPAs and NA
Ls, 
TDRs, ACL, and NCOs.  In addition, we utilize delinquency rates
, risk distribution and migrati
on patterns, and product segmenta
tion 
in the analysis of our 
credit quality performance.    48 
 Our overall credit quality performance returned to normalized, pre-recession levels.  NALs declined 21% to $322.1 million, 
compared to December 31, 2012, as both the C&I and CRE portfolio segments showed declines.  NCOs decreased 45% compared to 
the prior year, as a result of significant declines in the C&I and 
CRE portfolios combined with 
significant recovery activity, 
and net reductions in the Residential and Home Equity
 portfolios.  The Home Equity portfolio 
in particular was significantly impacted b
y the 
implementation of Chapter 7 bankruptcy regulatory accounting guida
nce, with an additional imp
act in 2013.  Commercial classifie
d loans declined, reflecting the continued impr
ovement across the portfolio.  The ACL to
 total loans ratio de
clined to 1.65%, but our 
coverage ratios as demonstrated by the 
ACL to NAL ratio of 221% remained strong. 
 
NPAs, NALs, and TDRs 
 (This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)  
 
NPAs and NALs 
 
NPAs consist of (1) NALs, which represent loans and leases no lo
nger accruing interest, (2) impaired loans held for sale, (3) 
OREO properties, and (4) other NPAs.  Any loan in our portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies descri
bed 
below when collection of principal or interest is 
in doubt.  Also, wh
en a borrower with discharged
 non-reaffirmed debt in a Cha
pter 7 
bankruptcy is identified and the loan is determined to be collateral dependent, the consumer loan is placed on nonaccrual statu
s.  C&I and CRE loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 90-days past due, or when repayment of principal and interest is in doubt.
 With the exception of residential mortgage 
loans guaranteed by government organizati
ons which continue to accrue interest, 
residential mortgage loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  First-lien home equity loans are placed on no
naccrual 
status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due
 or when the related first-lien loan has been identified as nonaccrual.  Automobile and other consumer loans are generally charged-off w
hen the loan is 120-days past due.   
 When loans are placed on nonaccrual, accrued interest income is reversed with current year accruals charged to earnings and pri
or 
year amounts generally charged-off as a credit loss.  When, in our judgment, the borrower™s ability to make required interest a
nd 
principal payments has resumed 
and collectability is no longer in doubt, the loan or lease is returned to accrual status. 
   49 
 The table reflects period-end NALs and NPAs detail for each of the last five years: 
 Table 13 - Nonaccrual Loans and Leases and Nonperforming Assets 
       At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013  2012  2011  2010  2009  Nonaccrual loans and leases: 
                               Commercial and industrial 
$ 56,615  $ 90,705 
  $ 201,846  $   346,720 
  $  578,414    Commercial real estate 
   73,417    127,128 
     229,889     363,692 
     935,812    Automobile 
   6,303    7,823 
     ---    ---     ---   Residential mortgages    119,532    122,452 
     68,658     45,010 
     362,630    Home equity    66,189    59,525 
     40,687     22,526 
     40,122  Total nonaccrual loans and leases
(1)    322,056    407,633 
     541,080     777,948 
     1,916,978
    Other real estate owned, net 
                                 Residential    23,447    21,378 
     20,330     31,649 
     71,427      Commercial 
   4,217    6,719 
     18,094     35,155 
     68,717  Total other real estate, net 
   27,664    28,097 
     38,424     66,804 
     140,144  Impaired loans held for sale
(2)    ---    ---      ---     ---     969  Other nonperforming assets
(3)    2,440    10,045 
     10,772     ---      ---  Total nonperforming assets 
$ 352,160  $ 445,775 
  $ 590,276  $   844,752 
  $  2,058,091
  Nonaccrual loans as a % of total loans and leases 
   0.75%   1.00 
%    1.39%     2.04 
%    5.21% Nonperforming assets ratio(4)    0.82    1.09 
     1.51     2.21 
     5.57  Allowance for loan and lease losses as % of: 
                               Nonaccrual loans and leases 
   201%   189 %    178%     161 %    77%   Nonperforming assets    184    173      163     148      72  Allowance for credit losses as % of: 
                               Nonaccrual loans and leases 
   221%   199 %    187%     166 %    80%   Nonperforming assets    202    182      172     153      74  (1) December 31, 2013 and 2012, includes $75.5 and $60.1 million, respectively, of Chapter 7 bankruptcy NALs.
 (2) Represents impaired loans obtained from the Sky Financial acquisition.  Held for sale loans are carried at the lower of cost or
 fair value less costs 
to sell.
 (3) Other nonperforming assets includes certain impaired investment securities.
(4) This ratio is calculated as nonperforming assets divided by the sum of loans and leases, impaired loans held for sale, net othe
r real estate owned, 
and other nonperforming assets.
  The $93.6 million, or 21%, decline in NPAs compared with December 31, 2012, primarily reflected: 

  $53.7 million, or 42%, decline in CRE NALs, reflecting both 
NCO and problem credit resolutions, including borrower 
payments and payoffs partially resulting from successful workout strategies implemented by our commercial loan workout 

group. 
 $34.1 million, or 38%, decline in C&I NALs, reflecting both NCO 
and problem credit resolutions, including payoffs partially 
resulting from successful workout strategies implemented by our commercial loan workout group.  The decline was 

associated with loans throughout our footprint, with
 no specific industry concentration.   
 $7.6 million, or 76%, decrease in other NPAs, reflecting the 
redemption by the issuer of a non-performing security. 
Partially offset by:  $6.7 million, or 11%, increase in home equity NALs, a functi
on of the economic stresses still impacting a portion of our 
borrowers in the Home
 Equity portfolio. 50 
 Of the $130.0 million of CRE and C&I-related NALs at December 31, 2013, $50.3 million, or 39%, represented loans that were 
less than 30 days past due, demonstrating our contin
ued commitment to proactive credit risk management. 
As discussed previously, residential mortgages are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of 
residential mortgages guaranteed by government organizations which continue to accrue interest.  First-lien home equity loans a
re placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier
 of 120-
days past due or when the related first-lien 
loan has been identified as nonaccrual. 
 The following table reflects period-end accruing loans and leases 90 days or more past due for each of the last five years: 
 Table 14 - Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases
           At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013  2012  2011  2010  2009  Accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more 
                             Commercial and industrial
(1) $ 14,562 
  $  26,648  $  ---   $   ---   $  ---     Commercial real estate
(1)    39,142 
    56,660     ---      ---      ---     Automobile 
   5,055 
    4,418     6,265 
     7,721 
     10,586 
    Residential mortgage (excluding loans guaranteed 
                                 by the U.S. government) 
   2,469 
    2,718     45,198 
     53,983 
     78,915 
    Home equity    13,983 
    18,200     20,198 
     23,497 
     53,343 
    Other loans and leases 
   998     1,672     1,988 
     2,456 
     2,814 
  Total, excl. loans guaranteed by the U.S. government 
   76,209 
    110,316     73,649 
     87,657 
     145,658 
  Add: loans guaranteed by the U.S. government 
   87,985 
    90,816     96,703 
     98,288 
     101,616 
  Total accruing loans and leases past due 90 days 
                               or more, including loans guaranteed by the U.S. 
                               government $ 164,194 
  $  201,132  $  170,352 
  $   185,945 
  $  247,274 
  Ratios:                              Excluding loans guaranteed by the U.S. government, 
                               as a percent of total loans and leases 
   0.18 
%   0.27%    0.19 
%     0.23 
%    0.40 
% Guaranteed by the U.S. government, as a percent of 
                               total loans and leases 
   0.20 
    0.22     0.25 
     0.26 
     0.28 
  Including loans guaranteed by the U.S. government,  
                               as a percent of total loans and leases 
   0.38 
    0.49     0.44 
     0.49 
     0.68 
  (1) 2013 and 2012 amounts represent accruing purchased impaired loans related to the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank acquisition.  Unde
r the applicable accounting guidance (ASC 310-30), the loans were recorded 
at fair value upon acquisition and remain in accruing stat
us.
  TDR Loans 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
 TDRs are modified loans in which a concession is provided 
to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  TDRs can be 
classified as either accrual or nonaccrual loans.  Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from
 NALs, as it is probable that all contractual principal and interest
 due under the restructured terms will be collected.  TDRs p
rimarily 
reflect our loss mitigation efforts to proactively work with 
borrowers having difficulty making their payments. 
   51 
 The table below presents our accruing and nonaccruing TDRs at period-end for each of the past five years: 
 Table 15 - Accruing and Nonaccruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
      December 31,
    (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Troubled debt restructured loans - accruing: 
              Commercial and industrial $ 83,857 
$ 76,586 
$ 54,007 
$ 70,136 
$ 59,215 
    Commercial real estate  204,668  208,901  249,968  152,496  97,834 
    Automobile 
 30,781 
 35,784 
 36,573 
 29,764 
 24,704 
    Home equity 
 188,266  110,581  52,224 
 37,257 
 25,357 
    Residential mortgage 
 305,059  290,011  309,678  328,411  229,470     Other consumer 
 1,041 
 2,544 
 6,108 
 9,565 
 2,810 
  Total troubled debt restructured loans - 
accruing 
 813,672  724,407  708,558  627,629  439,390 Troubled debt restructured loans - nonaccruing: 
              Commercial and industrial  7,291 
 19,268 
 48,553 
 15,275 
 37,849 
    Commercial real estate  23,981 
 32,548 
 21,968 
 18,187 
 70,609 
    Automobile 
 6,303 
 7,823 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
    Home equity 
 20,715 
 6,951 
 369 
 --- 
 --- 
    Residential mortgage 
 82,879 
 84,515 
 26,089 
 5,789 
 4,988 
    Other consumer 
 --- 
 113 
 113 
 --- 
 --- 
  Total troubled debt restructured loans - 
nonaccruing 
 141,169  151,218  97,092 
 39,251 
 113,446 Total troubled debt restructured loans 
$ 954,841 $ 875,625 $ 805,650 $ 666,880 $ 552,836  Our strategy is to structure commercial TDRs in a manner that avoids new concessions subsequent to the initial TDR terms. 
However, there are times when subsequent modifications are required, 
such as when the modified loan
 matures.  Often the loans a
re performing in accordance with the TDR terms, and a new note is originated with similar modified terms.  These loans are subject
ed to 
the normal underwriting standards and processe
s for other similar credit ex
tensions, both new and exis
ting.  If the loan is not
 performing in accordance with the existing TDR terms, typically an individualized approach to repayment is established.  In 
accordance with ASC 310-20-35, the refinanced note is evaluated to determine if it is considered a new loan or a continuation o
f the 
prior loan.  A new loan is considered 
for removal from the TDR designation.  A con
tinuation of the prior note requires the 
continuation of the TDR designation, and becau
se the refinanced note constitutes a new or
 amended debt instrument, it is includ
ed in 
our TDR activity table (below) as a new TDR and a restructured TDR removal during the period.  
 The types of concessions granted are consistent with those 
granted on new TDRs and include interest rate reductions, 
amortization or maturity date changes beyond what the collatera
l supports, and principal forgiven
ess based on the borrower™s sp
ecific needs at a point in time. Our policy does not 
limit the number of times a loan may be m
odified.  A loan may be modified multipl
e times if it is considered to be in the 
best interest of both the borrower and us. 
 
Loans are not automatically considered to be accruing TDRs upon the granting of a new concession.  If the loan is in accruing 
status and no loss is expected based on th
e modified terms, the modified TDR remains in accruing status.  For loans that are on
 nonaccrual status before the modification, coll
ection of both principal and interest must
 not be in doubt, 
and the borrower mus
t be able 
to exhibit sufficient cash flows for a six-month period of time to
 service the debt in order to 
return to accruing status. This
 six-month 
period could extend before or after the restructure date. 
 
TDRs in the home equity and residential mortgage portfolio will co
ntinue to increase for a time as we continue to appropriately
 manage the portfolio.  Any granted change in terms or conditi
ons that are not readily available in the market for that borrower
, requires the designation as a TDR. 

   52 
 The following table reflects TDR activity for each of the past three years: 
 Table 16 - Troubled Debt Restructured Loan Activity
              (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 2012  2011  TDRs, beginning of period 
$ 875,625$ 805,650 
$ 666,880  New TDRs(1)  611,556  597,425 
   583,439  Payments 
   (191,367)  (191,035)   (138,467)  Charge-offs 
   (29,897)  (81,115)   (37,341)  Sales    (11,164)  (13,787)   (54,715)  Refinanced to non-TDR 
   ---  ---    (40,091)  Transfer to OREO 
   (8,242)  (21,709)   (5,016)  Restructured TDRs - accruing
(2)  (211,131)  (153,583)   (154,945)  Restructured TDRs - nonaccruing
(2)  (26,772)  (63,080)   (47,659)  Other    (53,767)  (3,141)   33,565TDRs, end of period 
$ 954,841$ 875,625 
$ 805,650(1) 2013 includes a $46,031 thousand reduction of home equity TDRs incorrectly reflected as new TDRs in the 2013 first 
quarter. 2013 and 2012 includes $78.4 million and $79.5 million, respectively, of Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans. 
(2) Represents existing TDRs that were reunderwritten with new terms providing a concession.  A corresponding amount is 
included in the New TDRs amount above. 
 ACL 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
  Our total credit reserve is comprised of two components, both of 
which in our judgment are appropriate to absorb credit losses 
inherent in our loan and lease portfolio: 
the ALLL and the AULC.  Combined, these re
serves comprise the total ACL.  Our Credit 
Administration group is responsible for deve
loping the methodology assumptions and 
estimates used in the calculation, as well a
s determining the appropriateness of the ACL.  The ALLL represents th
e estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the r
eported 
date.  Additions to the ALLL result from recording provision expense for loan losses or increased risk levels resulting from lo
an risk-
rating downgrades, while reductions reflect 
charge-offs (net of recoveries), decreased 
risk levels resulting from loan risk-rat
ing 
upgrades, or the sale of loans.  The AULC is determined by applyi
ng the transaction reserve proces
s to the unfunded portion of 
the loan exposures multiplied by an applicable funding expectation.  
 
A provision for credit losses is recorded to
 adjust the ACL to the level we have 
determined to be appropriate to absorb credit 
losses inherent in our loan and lease port
folio.  The provision for cr
edit losses in 2013 was $90.0 
million, compared with 
$147.4 million in 2012.  

 We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of the ACL by perf
orming on-going evaluations of 
the loan and lease portfolio, 
including such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific 
borrowers, the level of delinquent loans,
 the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or
 other 
documented support.  We evaluate 
the impact of changes in interest rates and 
overall economic conditions 
on the ability of borrowers 
to meet their financial obligations when qua
ntifying our exposure to credit losses an
d assessing the approp
riateness of our ACL
 at each reporting date.  In addition to general economic conditions and the other factors described above, we also consider the im
pact of collateral value trends and portfolio diversification. 
 
In 2013, we implemented an enhanced co
mmercial risk rating system and ACL calculation process.  In addition, we enhanced 
some of our qualitative assessments, specifically
 around the impact of th
e prevailing economic conditions
.  These enhancements 
had an immaterial impact on the overall credit reserve and the overall declin
e in the ACL was primarily due to an improvement in 
underlying credit quality across the port
folio.  The portfolio level changes 
are more fully described below. 
 
Our ACL evaluation process includes the on-going assessment of credit quality metrics, and a comparison of certain ACL 
benchmarks to current performance.  While the total ACL balance 
has declined in recent quarters, all of the relevant benchmarks
 remain strong. 
   53 
 The following table reflects activity in the ALLL and AULC for each of the last five years: 
 Table 17 - Summary of Allowance for Credit Losses and Related Statistics
            Year Ended December 31,
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013    2012    2011    2010    2009   Allowance for loan and lease losses, beginning of year  
$ 769,075 
$  964,828 
$  1,249,008 
$  1,482,479
$  900,227 
Loan and lease charge-offs 
           Commercial: 
             Commercial and industrial 
   (45,904)  (101,475)   (134,385)   (316,771)   (525,262)    Commercial real estate: 
               Construction 
   (9,585)  (12,131)   (42,012)   (116,428)   (196,148)      Commercial 
   (59,927)  (105,920)   (140,747)   (187,567)   (500,534)    Commercial real estate 
   (69,512)  (118,051)   (182,759)   (303,995)   (696,682)  Total commercial 
   (115,416)  (219,526)   (317,144)   (620,766)   (1,221,944)
  Consumer:              Automobile 
   (23,912)  (26,070)   (33,593)   (46,308)   (76,141)    Home equity    (98,184)  (124,286)   (109,427)   (140,831)   (110,400)    Residential mortgage    (34,236)  (52,228)   (65,069)   (163,427)   (111,899)    Other consumer 
   (34,568)  (33,090)   (32,520)   (32,575)   (40,993)  Total consumer 
   (190,900)  (235,674)   (240,609)   (383,141)   (339,433)Total charge-offs 
   (306,316)  (455,200)   (557,753)   (1,003,907)
   (1,561,377)
Recoveries of loan and lease charge-offs 
           Commercial: 
             Commercial and industrial 
   29,514 
  37,227 
   44,686 
   61,839   37,656 
    Commercial real estate: 
               Construction 
   3,227 
  4,090 
   10,488 
   7,420   3,442 
      Commercial 
   41,431 
  35,532 
   24,170 
   21,013   10,509 
    Total commercial real estate 
   44,658 
  39,622 
   34,658 
   28,433   13,951 
  Total commercial 
   74,172 
  76,849 
   79,344 
   90,272   51,607 
  Consumer:              Automobile 
   13,375 
  16,628 
   18,526 
   19,736   19,809 
    Home equity    15,921 
  7,907 
   7,630 
   1,458   4,224 
    Residential mortgage    7,074 
  4,305 
   8,388 
   10,532   1,697 
    Other consumer 
   7,108 
  7,049 
   6,776 
   7,435   7,453 
  Total consumer 
   43,478 
  35,889 
   41,320 
   39,161   33,183 
Total recoveries 
   117,650 
  112,738 
   120,664 
   129,433   84,790 
Net loan and lease charge-offs 
   (188,666)   (342,462)   (437,089)   (874,474)   (1,476,587)
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   67,797 
  155,193 
   167,730 
   641,299   2,069,931 
Allowance for assets sold and securitized or transferred to 
loans held for sale 
   (336)  (8,484)   (14,821)   (296)   (11,092)Allowance for loan and lease losses, end of year 
   647,870 
   769,075 
   964,828 
   1,249,008
   1,482,479 
Allowance for unfunded loan commitments, beginning of 
year 
   40,651 
  48,456 
   42,127 
   48,879   44,139 
(Reduction in) Provision for unfunded loan commitments 
and letters of credit losses 
   22,248 
  (7,805)   6,329 
   (6,752)   4,740 
Allowance for unfunded loan commitments, end of year 
   62,899 
  40,651 
   48,456 
   42,127   48,879 
Allowance for credit losses, end of year 
$ 710,769 
$  809,726 
$  1,013,284 
$  1,291,135
$  1,531,358 
  54 
 The table below reflects the allocation of
 our ACL among our various loan categories during each of the past five years: 
 Table 18 - Allocation of Allowances for Credit Losses (1)
     At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013  2012  2011    2010    2009  Commercial: 
                                          Commercial and industrial 
$  265,801 
41 %  $ 241,051 
42 % $ 275,36738 % $ 340,614 
34 % $ 492,20535 %   Commercial real estate 
   162,557 
11      285,369 
14      388,70614      588,251 
18      751,87521   Total commercial 
   428,358 
52      526,420 
56      664,07352      928,865 
52      1,244,080
56   Consumer:                                           Automobile 
   31,053 
15      34,979 
11      38,28211      49,488 
15      57,9519     Home equity    111,131 
19      118,764 
20      143,87321      150,630 
20      102,03921     Residential mortgage    39,577 
12      61,658 
12      87,19413      93,289 
12      55,90312     Other loans    37,751 
2      27,254 
1      31,4063      26,736 
1      22,5062   Total consumer 
   219,512 
48      242,655 
44      300,75548      320,143 
48      238,39944   Total allowance for loan and lease 
losses    647,870 
100 %     769,075 
100 %    964,828100 %    1,249,008 
100 %    1,482,479
100 % Allowance for unfunded loan 
commitments 
   62,899 
       40,651 
       48,456       42,127 
       48,879    Total allowance for credit losses 
$  710,769 
    $ 809,726 
    $ 1,013,284
    $ 1,291,135 
    $ 1,531,358
    Total allowance for loan and leases losses as % of: 
      Total loans and leases 
    1.50 %     1.89 %     2.48 %     3.28 %     4.03 %  Nonaccrual loans and leases 
    201       189       178       161       77     Nonperforming assets     184       173       163       148       72   Total allowance for credit losses as % of: 
    Total loans and leases 
    1.65 %     1.99 %     2.60 %     3.39 %     4.16 %  Nonaccrual loans and leases 
    221       199       187       166       80     Nonperforming assets     202       182       172       153       74   (1) Percentages represent the percentage of each loan and lease category to total loans and leases. 
 The C&I ACL increased $24.8 million compared with December 31, 
2012, primarily due to the enha
ncements to the risk rating 
system and assumptions regarding the unfunded portion of loan commitments.  The CRE ACL decreased $122.8 million compared 
with December 31, 2012, due to the impact of incorporating the current collateral value in the calculation of the expected loss
 in addition to a property type analysis.  This provides a more sp
ecific assessment of the potential Lo
ss Given Default.  The curre
nt 
portfolio management practices focus on increasing borrower equity in the projects, and recent underwriting includes meaningful
ly lower LTV.  The December 31, 2013, CRE ACL covers NALs by more than two times and represents 13 quarters of the average 4 
quarter charge-off level.  The decrease associated with the auto po
rtfolio is based on the con
tinued positive performance metri
cs and the high quality origination strategy.  The home equity ALLL increased slightly as the junior-lien lien component remains the r
iskiest 
portion of the portfolio.  The residential 
mortgage portfolio ALLL declined, consisten
t with the improvin
g credit quality metri
cs.  The 
ALLL for the other consumer portfolio is consistent with expect
ations given the increasing level of overdraft exposure.  The re
duction 
in the ACL, compared with December 31, 2012, is pr
imarily a function of the declin
e in the CRE portfolio.  
 Compared with December 31, 2012, the AULC increased $22.2 million, primarily reflecting the impact of an enhanced 
assessment of the unfunded commercial exposure.   
 The ACL to total loans declined to 1.65% at December 31, 2013, compared to 1.99% at December 31, 2012.  We believe the 
decline in the ratio is appropriate given the 
continued improvement in th
e risk profile of our loan portfolio.  Further, we bel
ieve that 
early identification of loans with changes in
 credit metrics and aggressive action plans 
for these loans, comb
ined with origina
ting high 
quality new loans will contribute to continued improvement in our key cr
edit quality metrics.   
   55 
 We have significant exposure to loans secure
d by residential real estate and continue to
 be an active lender in our communities
.  The impact of the downturn in real estate values over the past seve
ral years has had a significant 
impact on some of our borrow
ers as 
evidenced by the higher delinquencies and NCOs
 since late 2007.  Recently, real estate 
values have begun to slowly rise from th
eir 2007 levels in our 
primary markets.   
   
Given the combination of these noted pos
itive and negative factors, we believe that our ACL is appropriate and its coverage lev
el is reflective of the quality of 
our portfolio and the current operating environment.  
  NCOs 
 Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-off prior to the po
licies described below if a loss confirming event has occurred.  Lo
ss confirming events include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy (unsecured), continued delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an
 asset 
valuation indicating a collateral deficiency and 
that asset is the sole source of repaymen
t.  Additionally, discharged, collate
ral dependent non-reaffirmed debt in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings
 will result in a charge-off to 
estimated collateral value, less a
nticipated 
selling costs at the time of the modification.
  C&I and CRE loans are either charged-off or written down to ne
t realizable value at 90-days past due.  Automobile loans and 
other consumer loans are charged-off at 120-days past due.   
First-lien and junior-lien home equity loans are charged-off to th
e estimated fair value of the collateral, le
ss anticipated selling costs, at 150-days past
 due and 120-days pa
st due, respectivel
y.   Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estimated fa
ir value of the collateral, less an
ticipated selling costs, at 150-day
s past due. 
 The following table reflects NCO detail for each of the last five years: 
 Table 19 - Net Loan and Lease Charge-offs
                                Year Ended December 31,
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
 Net charge-offs by loan and lease type 
             Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
$ 16,390 
$  64,248 
$  89,699 
$  254,932 
$  487,606 
      Commercial real estate: 
                 Construction 
   6,358 
  8,041 
   31,524 
   109,008 
   192,706 
        Commercial 
   18,496 
  70,388 
   116,577 
   166,554 
   490,025 
      Total commercial real estate 
   24,854 
  78,429 
   148,101 
   275,562 
   682,731 
    Total commercial 
   41,244 
  142,677 
   237,800 
   530,494 
   1,170,337 
    Consumer:                Automobile 
   10,537 
  9,442 
   15,067 
   26,572 
   56,332 
      Home equity    82,263 
  116,379 
   101,797 
   139,373 
   106,176 
      Residential mortgage    27,162 
  47,923 
   56,681 
   152,895 
   110,202 
      Other consumer 
   27,460 
  26,041 
   25,744 
   25,140 
   33,540 
    Total consumer 
   147,422 
  199,785 
   199,289 
   343,980 
   306,250 
  Total net charge-offs 
$ 188,666 
$  342,462 
$  437,089 
$  874,474 
$  1,476,587 
  Net charge-offs ratio: (1) 
             Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
   0.10 
% 0.40 
% 0.66 
%  2.05 
% 3.71 
%    Commercial real estate: 
                 Construction 
   1.10 
  1.38 
   5.33 
   9.95 
   10.37 
        Commercial 
   0.42 
  1.35 
   2.08 
   2.72 
   6.71 
      Commercial real estate 
   0.49 
  1.36 
   2.39 
   3.81 
   7.46 
    Total commercial 
   0.19 
  0.66 
   1.20 
   2.70 
   5.25 
    Consumer:                Automobile 
   0.19 
  0.21 
   0.26 
   0.54 
   1.59 
      Home equity    0.99 
  1.40 
   1.28 
   1.84 
   1.40 
      Residential mortgage    0.52 
  0.92 
   1.20 
   3.42 
   2.43 
      Other consumer 
   6.30 
  5.72 
   4.85 
   3.80 
   4.65 
    Total consumer 
   0.75 
  1.08 
   1.05 
   1.95 
   1.87 
  Net charge-offs as a % of average loans 
   0.45 
% 0.85 
% 1.12 
%  2.35 
% 3.82 
%   56 
 In assessing NCO trends, it is helpful to understand the process of how commercial loans are treated as they deteriorate over t
ime.  
The ALLL established is consistent with the level of risk associated 
with the original underwriting. 
 As a part of our normal p
ortfolio 
management process for commercial 
loans, the loan is periodically reviewed and the ALLL is
 increased or decreased based on the 
updated risk rating.  In certain cases, the standard ALLL is determined to not be appropriate, and a specific reserve is establ
ished based on the projected cash flow or collateral value of the 
specific loan.  Charge-offs, if necessary, are generally recognized
 in a 
period after the specific ALLL was established.  If the previously established ALLL exceeds that necessary to satisfactorily re
solve the 
problem loan, a reduction in the overall level of the ALLL could be recognized.  Consumer loans are treated in much the same ma
nner 
as commercial loans, with increasing reserve factors applied based on the risk characteristics of the loan, although specific r
eserves are 
not identified for consumer loans.  In summary, if loan quality deteriorates, the typical credit sequence would be periods of r
eserve 
building, followed by periods of higher NCOs as the previously es
tablished ALLL is utilized.  Additionally, an increase in the 
ALLL 
either precedes or is in conjunction with increases in NALs.   
When a loan is classified as NAL, it is evaluated for specific A
LLL or 
charge-off.  As a result, an increase in NALs does not necessarily result in an increase in the ALLL or an expectation of highe
r future NCOs.  
 Our overall NCOs are returning to pre-recession levels, however, we
 anticipate NCO levels for both the residential mortgage and
 home equity portfolios will remain
 at elevated levels in the near future.  The home 
equity portfolio will co
ntinue to be impact
ed by borrowers that are seeking to refinance, but are in a negative equity position because of the junior-lien loan.  Right-sizing a
nd debt 
forgiveness associated with these situations are becoming more frequent as borrowers realize the impact to their credit is mino
r, and 
that a default on a junior-lien 
loan is not likely to cause borrowers to lose their home. 
 
All residential mortgage loans greater than
 150-days past due are char
ged-down to the estimated value of the collateral, less 
anticipated selling costs.  The remaining balance is in delinqu
ent status until a modification ca
n be completed, or the loan go
es 
through the foreclosure process.
  For the home equity portfolio, virtually all of
 the defaults represent full charge-offs, as t
here is no 
remaining equity, creating a lower delinquency rate but a higher NCO impact. 
 2013 versus 2012 
 C&I NCOs decreased $47.9 million, or 74%, primarily reflecting cred
it quality improvement in the u
nderlying portfolio, as well 
as our on-going proactive credit management 
practices.  Also, 2013 included significant 
recoveries from prior year charge-offs.
  
CRE NCOs decreased $53.6 million, or 68%, reflecting both a reduction in loss events and significant recoveries during 2013.  
This performance is consistent with our ex
pectations for the portfolio, as some degree 
of quarterly volatility is expected give
n the low 
absolute levels of NCOs in the 
portfolio.  There was no concentration 
in either geography or project type. 
 
Automobile NCOs increased $1.1 million, or 12%
.  The relatively low levels of NCOs re
flected the continued high credit quality 
of originations and a strong resale marke
t for used vehicles. The slight increasing trend was expected given the absolute low l
evels achieved in 2012. 
 
Home equity NCOs decreased $34.1 million, or 29%, primarily reflecting improved delinquency rates and fewer significant dollar 
size losses compared to the prior year.  The impact from the Ch
apter 7 bankruptcy treatment decision inflated the 2012 results,
 with an 
additional lesser impact in 2013.  Absent th
e Chapter 7 bankruptcy impact,
 the improvement would have 
been 15% year over year. 
   Residential mortgage NCOs declined $20.8 million, or 43%, and 
reflected improvement in the overall housing market compared 
to the prior year. 
 Market Risk 
 Market risk represents the risk 
of loss due to changes in market values of ass
ets and liabilities.  We incur market risk in the
 normal course of business through exposures 
to market interest rates, foreign exchange
 rates, equity prices, and credit spreads
.  We 
have identified two primary so
urces of market risk:  interest rate risk and price risk. 
 Interest Rate Risk 
 OVERVIEW 
 Huntington actively manages interest rate ri
sk, as changes in market interest rates 
can have a significant impact on reported 
earnings.  The interest rate risk process is designed to compar
e income simulations in market scenarios designed to alter the d
irection, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes, as well as the sl
ope of the yield curve.  These 
scenarios are designed to illust
rate the embedded optionality in the balance sheet from, among other things, faster or slower mortgage prepayments and changes in deposi
t mix. 

 57 
 INCOME SIMULATION AND ECONOMIC VALUE ANALYSIS 
 Interest rate risk measurement is calculated and reported to th
e ALCO monthly and ROC at least quarterly.  The information 
reported includes period-end results and identifies any policy limits exceeded, along with an assessment of the policy limit br
each and 
the action plan and timeline 
for resolution, mitigation, or as
sumption of the risk.   
 Huntington uses two approaches to mode
l interest rate risk: Interest Sensitive Ear
nings at Risk (ISE analysis) and Economic 
Value of Equity (EVE analysis).  Under ISE analysis, net intere
st income is modeled utilizing various assumptions for assets, 
liabilities, and derivative positions under various interest rate s
cenarios over a one-year time horizon.  Market implied forwa
rd rates 
and various likely and extreme interest rate scenarios are used for ISE analysis.  These likely and extreme scenarios include r
apid and 
gradual interest rate ramps, rate shocks, and yield curve twists.  EVE analysis measures the market value of assets minus the m
arket value of liabilities and the change in 
this value as rates change.   
   Table 20 - Interest Sensitive Earnings at Risk
                            Net Interest Income at Risk (%) 
 Basis point change scenario 
  -25     +100  +200 Board policy limits 
  ---    
    -2.0 %  -4.0 % December 31, 2013
     -0.4 %    0.2 %  0.0 %      The ISE results included in the table above reflect the analysis used monthly by management.  It
 models gradual -25, +100 and 
+200 basis point parallel shifts in
 market interest rates over the next one-year
 period, beyond the interest rate change implie
d by the 
forward yield curve.  Due to 
the current low level of short-term interest rates, the analysis reflects a declining interest rat
e scenario of 
25 basis points, the point 
at which many assets and liabilities reach zero percent.   
 
Huntington is within Board policy limits for the +100 and +200 basis po
int scenarios.   There is 
no policy limit for the -25 ba
sis point scenario.  The ISE analysis reported at December 31, 2013, shows that Huntington™s earnings are not significantly sensitive to 

changes in interest rates.  Due to
 an increase in the amount of fixed rate assets
, consisting primarily of indirect auto loans 
and fixed 
rate securities, the amount of asset sensitivity declined through the year.  The scenarios above also include the impact of mar
ket rate changes on the duration of fixed-rate mortgage-related assets, 
which extend as rates rise an
d reduce asset sensitivity. As inte
rest rates rise, the net earnings from our interest rate swaps declines faster
 under the +200 than +100 basis 
point scenario resulting in 
lower asset 
sensitivity as shown above. 
 Table 21 - Economic Value of Equity at Risk
                      Economic Value of Equity at Risk (%) 
 Basis point change scenario 
 -25     +100  +200 Board policy limits 
  ---   -5.0 % -12.0 % December 31, 2013
  0.6 %    -3.9 %  -9.3 %   The EVE results included in the table above reflect the analysis 
used monthly by management.  
It models immediate -25, +100 
and +200 basis point parallel shifts in mark
et interest rates.  Due to the current low level of short-term interest rates, the 
analysis reflects a declining interest rate scenario of 25 basis points, 
the point at which many assets and liabilities reach zero perce
nt.   
 Huntington is within Board policy limits fo
r the +100 and +200 basis po
int scenarios.   There is 
no policy limit for the -25 ba
sis point scenario.  The EVE at risk reported at December 31, 2013, shows that as interest rates increase (decrease) immediately, t
he economic value of equity position will decrease (increase).  When interest rates rise, fixed rate assets generally lose economi
c value; the longer the duration, the greater the value lost. 
 The opposite is true when interest rates fall.   
 Compared to recent periods, the EVE results for December 31, 2013, reflect the impact of additional  mortgage-backed securities
, which were added to increase the amount of highly liquid a
ssets in our investment portfolio, and higher market rates. 
 MSR  (This section should be read in conjunction with Note 6 
of the Notes to the Consolid
ated Financial Statements.) 
 At December 31, 2013 we had a total of $162.3 million of capitalized MSRs representing the right to service $15.2 billion in 
mortgage loans.
  Of this $162.3 million, $34.2 million
 was recorded using the fair value method and $128.1 million was recorded 
using the amortization method. 
58 
 MSR fair values are very sensitive to movements in interest ra
tes as expected future net servicing income depends on the 
projected outstanding principal balances of
 the underlying loans, which can be greatly
 reduced by prepayments. Prepayments usua
lly increase when mortgage interest rates decline and decrease when mort
gage interest rates rise.  We have employed strategies to r
educe 
the risk of MSR fair value changes or impair
ment.  In addition, we engage a third party
 to provide valuation tools and assistance with 
our strategies with the objective to decrease the volatility from MSR fair value change
s.  However, volatile changes in interes
t rates can diminish the effectiveness of these hedges.  We typically report MSR fair value adjustments net of hedge-related trading ac
tivity 
in the mortgage banking income category of noninterest income.  
Changes in fair value between reporting dates are recorded as a
n increase or a decrease in mortgage banking income.   
 MSRs recorded using the amortization method generally relate to lo
ans originated with historica
lly low interest rates, resultin
g in 
a lower probability of prepayments and, ultimately, impairment.  MSR assets are included in accrued income and other assets in 
the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Price Risk  Price risk represents the risk of loss arisin
g from adverse movements in the prices of 
financial instruments that are carried a
t fair value and are subject to fair value accountin
g.  We have price risk from trading s
ecurities, securities owned by our broker-dea
ler subsidiaries, foreign exchange positions, equity
 investments, investments in securities 
backed by mortgage loans, and marketabl
e equity securities held by our insurance subsidiaries.  We have established loss limits on the trading portfolio, on the amount 
of foreign 
exchange exposure that can be maintained, and on the amount of marketable equity securities that can be held by the insurance 
subsidiaries.     Liquidity Risk 
 Liquidity risk is the risk of loss due to
 the possibility that funds may not be av
ailable to satisfy current or future commitme
nts resulting from external macro market issues, investor and customer
 perception of financial strength, and events unrelated to us
, such as 
war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues.  In 
addition, the mix and maturity 
structure of Huntington™s b
alance 
sheet, the amount of on-hand cash and unencumbered securities, and the availability of contingent sources of funding can have a
n impact on Huntington™s ability to 
satisfy current or future fundin
g commitments. We manage liquid
ity risk at both the Bank and 
the 
parent company. 
 The overall objective of liquidity risk manage
ment is to ensure that we can obtain 
cost-effective funding to meet current and 
future obligations, and can maintain sufficient levels of on-ha
nd liquidity, under both normal 
business-as-usual and unanticipa
ted stressed circumstances.  The ALCO was appointed by the ROC to
 oversee liquidity risk management and the establishment of 
liquidity risk policies and limits. Contingency funding plans are in place, which measure forecasted sources and uses of funds 
under 
various scenarios in order to prepare for unexpected liquidity shor
tages.  Liquidity risk is reviewed monthly for the Bank and 
the parent company, as well as its subsidiaries.   In addition, liq
uidity working groups meet regular
ly to identify and monitor liq
uidity 
positions, provide policy guidance, review fu
nding strategies, and oversee the adherenc
e to, and maintenance of, the contingenc
y funding plans.    

 Available-for-sale and other securities portfolio 
(This section should be read in conjunction with the Critical Accounting Policies 
and Use of Significant Estimates discussion, 
and 
Note 4 of the Notes to Conso
lidated Financial Statements.)
  Our investment securities portfolio is evaluated under es
tablished asset/liability management objectives. Changing market 
conditions could affect the profitability 
of the portfolio, as well as the level of interest rate risk exposure. 
  Our available-for-sale and other securities portfo
lio is comprised of various financial inst
ruments.  At December 31, 2013, our
 available-for-sale and other securities portfolio
 totaled $7.3 billion, a decrease of $0.3 
billion from 2012.  The duration of 
the portfolio increased by 1.3 years to 4.2 years.  
   59 
 The composition and maturity of
 the portfolio is presented 
on the following two tables: 
 Table 22 - Available-for-sale and other se
curities Portfolio Summary at Fair Value
          At December 31, 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
      2013 
2012 
2011 
U.S. Government backed agencies
   $  3,937,713 $  4,676,607 $ 5,253,640 Other 
   3,371,040  2,889,568  2,824,374 Total available-for-sale
 and other securities
     $  7,308,753 $  7,566,175 $ 8,078,014 Duration in years (1) 
      4.2 
2.9 
3.1 
(1) The average duration assumes a ma
rket driven prepayment rate on 
securities subject to prepayment.
   Table 23 - Available-for-sale and other secu
rities Portfolio Composition and Maturity
      At December 31, 2013 
      Amortized
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
  CostFair Value  Yield (1)    U.S. Treasury: 
      Under 1 year 
$  50,793 
$  51,086 
 1.01 
%   1-5 years 
   507  516  1.94 
    6-10 years 
   --- --- ---     Over 10 years 
   1  2  ---     Total U.S. Treasury
    51,301 
 51,604 
 1.02 
    Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities 
      Under 1 year 
   16,548 
 16,607 
 1.93 
    1-5 years 
   164,794 
 166,946 
 1.97 
    6-10 years 
   440,116 
 443,456 
 2.51 
    Over 10 years 
   2,940,986 
 2,939,212 
 2.38 
    Total Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities 
   3,562,444 
 3,566,221 
 2.38 
    Other agencies: 
      Under 1 year 
   2,833 
 2,880 
 3.15 
    1-5 years 
   291,726 
 297,510 
 1.56 
    6-10 years 
   19,318 
 19,498 
 2.23 
    Over 10 years 
   --- --- ---     Total other Federal agencies    313,877 
 319,888 
 1.62 
  Total U.S. Government backed agencies
    3,927,622 
 3,937,713 
 2.30 
  Municipal securities: 
      Under 1 year 
   191,788 
 190,762 
 2.18 
    1-5 years 
   206,719 
 211,916 
 3.11 
    6-10 years 
   556,873 
 554,772 
 2.84 
    Over 10 years 
   184,883 
 188,542 
 3.82 
  Total municipal securities
    1,140,263 
 1,145,992 
 2.94 
  Private label CMO: 
      Under 1 year 
   --- --- ---     1-5 years 
   --- --- ---     6-10 years 
   1,997 
 2,089 
 5.98 
    Over 10 years 
   49,241 
 47,015 
 2.45 
  Total private label CMO
    51,238 
 49,104 
 2.59 
  Asset-backed securities: 
      Under 1 year 
   --- --- ---     1-5 years 
   434,825 
 438,156 
 1.90 
    6-10 years 
   260,354 
 260,880 
 1.96 
    Over 10 years 
   477,105 
 392,004 
 2.04 
  Total asset-backed securities    1,172,284 
 1,091,040 
 1.97 
  Covered bonds:       Under 1 year 
   --- --- ---     1-5 years 
   280,595 
 285,874 
 1.75 
    6-10 years 
   --- --- ---     Over 10 years 
   --- --- ---   Total covered bonds    280,595 
 285,874 
 1.75 
  60 
 Corporate debt: 
      Under 1 year 
   903  916  3.49 
    1-5 years 
   283,079 
 292,989 
 3.42 
    6-10 years 
   161,398 
 152,608 
 2.79 
    Over 10 years 
   10,113 
 10,727 
 4.85 
  Total corporate debt
    455,493 
 457,240 
 3.23 
  Other:       Under 1 year 
   500  500  1.43 
    1-5 years 
   3,399 
 3,327 
 2.42 
    6-10 years 
   --- ---NA     Over 10 years 
   --- ---NA     Nonmarketable equity securities (2) 
   320,991 
 320,992 
 4.97 
    Marketable equity securities (3) 
   16,522 
 16,971 
NA   Total other    341,412 
 341,790 
 4.70 
  Total available-for-sale and other securities
 $  7,368,907 
$  7,308,753 
 2.51 
% (1) Weighted average yields were calculated 
using amortized cost on a fully-taxable equivalent basis, assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(2) Consists of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holding carried at par. 
(3) Consists of certain mutual fund and equity security holdings. 
 Investment securities portfolio 
 The expected weighted av
erage maturities of our AFS and HTM portfolios ar
e significantly shorter than their contractual 
maturities as reflected in Note 4 and Note 5 of the Notes to Cons
olidated Financial Statements. Particularly regarding the MBS 
and 
ABS, prepayments of principal and interes
t that historically occur in advance of sche
duled maturities will shorten the expected
 life of 
these portfolios.  The expected weighted average maturities, which take into account expected prepayments of principal and inte
rest 
under existing interest rate conditions, are shown in the following table: 
 Table 24 - Expected life of investment securities
                    December 31, 2013
      Available-for-Sale & Other 
  Held-to-Maturity 
     Securities   Securities      Amortized 
  Fair    Amortized  
   Fair  (dollar amounts in thousands)
   Cost   Value 
  Cost    Value 
Under 1 year 
$ 588,909  $ 585,794  $ --- 
  $ --- 
1 - 5 years
   3,480,761    3,538,852    327,407     326,775 6 - 10 years
   2,591,270    2,543,659    3,509,260     3,434,122 Over 10 years
   370,454    302,486    --- 
    --- 
Other securities
   337,513    337,962    --- 
    --- 
Total 
$ 7,368,907  $ 7,308,753  $ 3,836,667   $ 3,760,897  Bank Liquidity and Sources of Liquidity 
 Our primary sources of funding for the Bank are retail and commercial core deposits.  As of December 31, 2013, these core 
deposits funded 76% of total assets (105% of total loans).  At December 31, 2013, total core deposits represented 95% of total 
deposits, relatively unchanged from prior year-end. 
 Core deposits are comprised of interest-bearing and noninter
est-bearing demand deposits, mone
y market deposits, savings and 
other domestic deposits, consumer certificates
 of deposit both over and under $250,000
, and nonconsumer certificates of deposit
 less than $250,000.  Noncore deposits consist of brokered money ma
rket deposits and certificates of 
deposit, foreign time deposits, 
and other domestic deposits of $250,000 or more
 comprised primarily of public fund certifi
cates of deposit more than $250,000.   
 
Core deposits may increase our need for liquidity as certificates
 of deposit mature or are with
drawn before maturity and as 
nonmaturity deposits, such as checking and 
savings account balances, are withdrawn. 
Noninterest-bearing demand deposits increas
ed $1.1 billion from the prior year, but inclu
de certain large commercial deposits that may be more short-term in nature. 
 Demand deposit overdrafts that have been re
classified as loan balances were $19.3 
million and $17.2 million at December 31, 
2013 and 2012, respectively.  
 61 
 The following tables reflect contractual maturities of other domes
tic time deposits of $250,000 or more and brokered deposits a
nd 
negotiable CDs as well as other domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more and brokered deposits and negotiable CDs at December
 31, 2013. 
 Table 25 - Maturity Schedule of time deposits, brokered deposits, and negotiable CDs
    December 31, 2013
    3 Months 
3 Months 6 Months 12 Months (dollar amounts in millions)
 or Less to 6 Months 
to 12 Monthsor More TotalOther domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more and brokered deposits and 
negotiable CDs $ 248 $ 1,345 
$  68 $  193$  1,854 
  Other domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more and brokered deposits and 
negotiable CDs $ 263 $ 1,358 
$  91 $  216$  1,928 
 The following table reflects deposit compos
ition detail for each of the last five years: 
 Table 26 - Deposit Composition
                                  At December 31, 
 (dollar amounts in millions)
   2013    2012   2011    2010   2009  By Type
                         Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing 
$13,650  29 %  $ 12,600  27 % $ 11,158  26% $  7,217  17 % $ 6,907  17%     Demand deposits - interest-bearing 
  5,880  12      6,218  13     5,722  13    5,469  13     5,890  15      Money market deposits 
  17,213  36      14,691  32     13,117  30    13,410  32     9,485  23      Savings and other domestic deposits 
  4,871  10      5,002  11     4,698  11    4,643  11     4,652  11      Core certificates of deposit 
  3,723  8      5,516  12     6,513  15    8,525  20     10,453  26    Total core deposits 
  45,337  95      44,027  95     41,208  95    39,264  93     37,387  92    Other domestic deposits of $250,000 
                                             or more   274  1      354  1     390  1    675  2     652  2    Brokered deposits and negotiable CDs 
  1,580  3      1,594  3     1,321  3    1,532  4     2,098  5    Deposits in foreign offices 
  316  1      278  1     361  1    383  1     357  1  Total deposits $47,507 100 %  $ 46,253  100 % $ 43,280  100% $  41,854  100 % $ 40,494  100% Total core deposits: 
                                  Commercial 
$19,982  44 %  $ 18,358  42 % $ 16,366  40% $  12,476  32 % $ 11,368  30%   Personal   25,355  56      25,669  58     24,842  60    26,788  68     26,019  70  Total core deposits
 $45,337 100 %  $ 44,027  100 % $ 41,208  100% $  39,264  100 % $ 37,387  100%  The following table reflects short-term borrowings detail for each of the last five years:  
 Table 27 - Federal Funds Purchased and Repurchase Agreements
                                                                                                  (dollar amounts in millions) 
 2013     2012      2011        2010     2009   Balance at period-end   Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$549 $576 $1,434 $1,966 $851   Other short-term borrowings  4 14 7 75 25                Weighted average interest rate at period-end
   Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  0.06 
%  0.15 
%    0.17 
%      0.19 
%    0.21 
%  Other short-term borrowings   2.59 
    1.98 
      2.74 
       0.53 
      1.17 
                             Maximum amount outstanding at month-end during the period
  Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$787 $1,590 $2,431 $2,084 $1,095   Other short-term borrowings  19 26 86 108 54 62 
                Average amount outstanding during the period
   Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$692 $1,293 $2,009 $1,375 $903   Other short-term borrowings  8 17 46 70 30                Weighted average interest rate during the period
   Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  0.08 
%  0.14 
%    0.16 
%      0.19 
%    0.21 
%  Other short-term borrowings   1.79 
    1.36 
      0.59 
       0.43 
      1.47 
   To the extent we are unable to obtain sufficient liquidity throug
h core deposits, we may meet our liquidity needs through sourc
es of wholesale funding or asset securitization or sale.  Sources of wholesale funding 
include other domestic time deposits of $25
0,000 or 
more, brokered deposits and negotiable CDs, deposits in forei
gn offices, short-term bor
rowings, FHLB advances, other long-term 
debt, and subordinated notes.  At December 31, 2013, total wholesale funding was $7.0 billion, an increase from $5.2 billion at
 December 31, 2012.  The increase from prior year primarily relates to an increase in other long-term debt and FHLB borrowings, 
partially offset by a decrease in subordinated notes and short-
term borrowings.  The amounts incl
uded in wholesale funding at 
December 31, 2013, had a weighted average maturity of 2.95 years.  
 
 In August 2013, the Bank issued $350.0 million of senior notes at 99.865% of face value. The senior bank note issuances mature
 on August 2, 2016 and have a fixed coupon rate of 1.35%. The senior note issuance may be redeem
ed one month prior to the maturi
ty 
date at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
 In November 2013, the Bank issued $500.0 million of senior notes at 99.979% of face value. The senior bank note issuances 
mature on November 20, 2016 and have a fi
xed coupon rate of 1.30%. The senior note is
suance may be redeemed one month prior to 
the maturity date at 100% of princi
pal plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
 We can also obtain funding through other meth
ods including: (1) purchasing federal funds, (2) selling securities under repurcha
se agreements, (3) selling or maturity of investment securities, 
(4) selling or secur
itization of loans, (5) selling of national m
arket certificates of deposit, (6) the relatively shorte
r-term structure of our commercial loans
 (see table below)
 and automobile loans, and (7) 
issuing of common and preferred stock.   
 
The Bank also has access to the Federal Reserve's discount window.  These borrowings are secured by commercial loans and 
home equity lines-of-credit.  The Bank is also a member of the FHLB, and as such, has access to advances from this facility.  T
hese 
advances are generally secured by reside
ntial mortgages, other mortgage-related lo
ans, and available-for-sale securities.    
 At December 31, 2013, we believe the Bank had sufficient liquidity to meet its cash flow obligations for the foreseeable future
.   
  Table 28 - Maturity Schedule of Commercial Loans
            December 31, 2013
     One Year 
One to After    Percent 
of   (dollar amounts in millions)
 or Less Five Years 
Five Years 
Total  total     Commercial and industrial 
$ 4,640 
$  9,689$  3,265 
$  17,594 
 78 %   Commercial real estate - construction 
   193  318 46  557  3   Commercial real estate - commercial 
   1,305 
 2,558 430  4,293 
 19 Total $ 6,138 
$  12,565$  3,741 
$  22,444 
 100 %       Variable-interest rates 
$ 5,582 
$  10,057$  2,429 
$  18,068 
 81 %   Fixed-interest rates 
   556  2,508 1,312 
 4,376 
 19 Total $ 6,138 
$  12,565$  3,741 
$  22,444 
 100 % Percent of total 
   27 %  56%  17 %   100 %    At December 31, 2013, AFS securities, with a fair value of $2.6 billion, were pledged to secure public and trust deposits, inte
rest rate swap agreements, U.S. Treasury demand notes, and s
ecurities sold under repu
rchase agreements.   
   63 
 Parent Company Liquidity  
 The parent company™s funding requirements consist primarily of divi
dends to shareholders, debt service, income taxes, operating
 expenses, funding of nonbank subsidiaries, repu
rchases of our stock, and acquisitions.  
The parent company 
obtains funding to m
eet obligations from interest received from the Bank, interest and dividends received from direct subsidiaries, net taxes collected
 from 
subsidiaries included in the federal consol
idated tax return, fees for 
services provided to subsidiaries, an
d the issuance of d
ebt securities.  At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the parent company had $1.0 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively, in cash and 
cash equivalents.  
 
Based on the current quarterly dividend of $0.05 per common 
share, cash demands required for common stock dividends are 
estimated to be approximately $41.5 million 
per quarter.  Based on the current dividend
, cash demands required for Series A Pre
ferred 
Stock are estimated to be approximately $7.7 million per quarter.  
Cash demands required for Series B Preferred Stock are expec
ted to 
be approximately $0.3 million per quarter. The Preferred A and B di
vidends are payable on April 15
, 2014, to shareholders of re
cord 
on April 1, 2014. 
 Based on a regulatory dividend limitation, the 
Bank could not have declared and paid 
a dividend to the parent company until 
December 31, 2013, without regulatory approval due to the deficit position of its undivided profits.  We anticipate that the Ba
nk will declare dividends to the holding co
mpany during the first half of 2014.  To help 
meet any additional liquidity needs, we have a
n open-
ended, automatic shelf registration statemen
t filed and effective with the SEC, which permits us to issue an unspecified amount
 of debt 
or equity securities.   
With the exception of the items discussed above, the parent compan
y does not have any significant cash demands.  It is our poli
cy to keep operating cash on hand at the parent compan
y to satisfy cash demands for the next 18 months. 
 
In August 2013, the parent co
mpany issued $400.0 million of senior notes at 99
.8% of face value. The senior note issuances 
mature on August 2, 2018 and have a fixed coupon rate of 2.60%.  The senior note issuances may be redeemed one month prior to t
he 
maturity date at 100% of principal 
plus accrued and unpaid interest.   
 
On October 24, 2013, the OCC, U.S. Treasury, FRB, and the FDIC, 
issued an NPR regarding th
e implementation of a quantitative 
liquidity requirement consistent with the LCR standard esta
blished by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The 
requirements are designed to promote the short term resilience of the liquidity ri
sk profile of banks, to 
which it applies.  Co
mments on 
the requirement could be submitted until 
January 31, 2014.  If implemented as proposed, 
the requirement will likely cause some 
banks, including us, to purchase additional amounts of unencumbered, high quality liquid assets, which can easily be converted 
into 
cash.    
 
Considering the factors discussed above, and other analyses th
at we have performed, we believe the parent company has 
sufficient liquidity to meet its cash fl
ow obligations for the 
foreseeable future. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 In the normal course of business, we enter into various off-balance sheet arrangements. These arrangements include financial 
guarantees contained in standby letters-of-credit issued by the Bank an
d commitments by the Bank to sell mortgage loans.  
  Standby letters-of-credit are conditional commitments issu
ed to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These
 guarantees are primarily issued to support 
public and private borrowing arrangements, 
including commercial paper, bond financin
g, 
and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature within
 two years and are expected to 
expire without being drawn upo
n. Standby letters-of-credit are included in the determination of the amount of risk-based capital that the parent company and the
 Bank are required to hold.   
 
Through our credit process, we monitor the credit risks 
of outstanding standby letters-of-credit.
  When it is probable that a 
standby letter-of-credit will be drawn and not re
paid in full, a loss is recognized in 
the provision for credit losses.  At Dec
ember 31, 
2013, we had $439.8 million of 
standby letters-of-credit outstanding, of which 84% 
were collateralized.  Included in this $439.
8 million are letters-of-credit issued 
by the Bank that support securities that were i
ssued by our customers 
and remarketed by Th
e Huntington Investment Company, 
our broker-dealer subsidiary.   
 We enter into forward contracts relating to the mortgage banking 
business to hedge the exposures we have from commitments to 
extend new residential mortgage loans to our customers and from our mortgage loans held for sale. At December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, we had commitments to sell residential real estate loans of $452.6 million and $849.8 million, respectively.
  These contracts mature in less than one year.  
64 
 We do not believe that off-balance sheet arrangements will have 
a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.    
 Table 29 - Contractual Obligations (1)
                            December 31, 2013 
    One Year
1 to 3 
3 to 5 
More than
     (dollar amounts in millions)
 or Less Years 
Years 
5 Years 
  Total
Deposits without a stated maturity
 $ 40,839 
$   --- 
$   --- 
$   --- 
  $  40,839
Certificates of deposit and other time deposits 
   4,674 
   1,643 
   228 
   123 
     6,668
FHLB advances 
   1,800 
   --- 
   1    7      1,808
Short-term borrowings 
   552 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
     552Other long-term debt 
   --- 
   850 
   435 
   65      1,350
Subordinated notes 
   125 
   108 
   231 
   637 
     1,101
Operating lease obligations    49    90    77    189 
     405Purchase commitments 
   114 
   131 
   43    5      293(1) 
Amounts do not include associ
ated interest payments.  
                       Operational Risk  
 As with all companies, we are subject to operational risk.   Oper
ational risk is the risk of loss 
due to human error; inadequate or failed internal systems and controls; viol
ations of, or noncompliance with, laws, 
rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or 
ethical 
standards; and external influences
 such as market conditions, frau
dulent activities, disasters, and security risks.  We continu
ously 
strive to strengthen our system of internal controls to ensure
 compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, and to improve the
 oversight of our operational risk.  For example, we actively and continuously monitor cybe
r-attacks such as attempts related to
 eFraud 
and loss of sensitive customer data.  We ev
aluate internal systems, processes and co
ntrols to mitigate loss from cyber-attacks 
and, to 
date, have not experienced any material losses. 
 To mitigate operational risks, we have established a senior 
management Operational Risk Committee and a senior management 
Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Committee.  The responsibilities of these committees, among other duties, include establishin
g and maintaining management information system
s to monitor material risks and to identi
fy potential concerns, risks, or trends t
hat may have a significant impact and ensuring that recommendations are developed to address the identified issues.  Both of these 

committees report any significant findings and recommendati
ons to the Risk Management
 Committee.  Additionally, potential 
concerns may be escalated to our ROC, as appropriate.  

 The goal of this framework is to implement effective operational risk techniques and strategies, minimize operational and fraud
 losses, and enhance our overall performance. 
 Representation and Warranty Reserve 
 We primarily conduct our mortgage loan sale and securitization 
activity with FNMA and FHLMC.  In
 connection with these and 
other securitization transactions, we make certain representa
tions and warranties that the loans meet certain criteria, such as
 collateral type and underwriting standards.  We may be
 required to repurchase individual loans an
d / or indemnify these organizations agai
nst losses due to a loan not meeting
 the established criteria.  As part of the consumer portfolio review that was initiated during 
the 2013 
third quarter (see Consumer Credit section for de
scription), we continue to evaluate re
presentation and warranty exposure of lo
ans 
sold with servicing retained associated w
ith borrowers who filed bankruptcy.  We have a reserve for such losses and exposure, w
hich is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities.  The reserves are estimated
 based on historical and expected repurchase 
activity, average loss rates, and current economic trends.  The level of mo
rtgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, 
investor demand strategies and other extern
al conditions containing a level
 of uncertainty and risk that may change over the li
fe of the 
underlying loans.  We currently do not have sufficient informati
on to estimate the range of reasonably possible loss related to
 representation and warranty exposure. 
   65 
 The tables below reflect activity in the 
representations and warranties reserve: 
 Table 30 - Summary of Reserve for Representations and Warranties on Mortgage Loans 
Serviced for Others             Year Ended December 31,
         (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 2012  2011    2010  2009  Reserve for representations and warranties, beginning of year  
$ 28,588 
$  23,218 
$   20,171 
 5,916 
$   5,270 
Assumed reserve for representations and warranties 
   ---  --- --- 7,000 
   ---Reserve charges 
   (12,513)  (10,628) (8,711) (9,012)   (2,516)Provision for representations and warranties 
   5,952 
  15,998 
 11,758 
 16,267 
   3,162 
Reserve for representations and warranties, end of year 
$ 22,027 
$  28,588 
$  23,218 
$  20,171 
$  5,916 
  Table 31 - Mortgage Loan Repurchase Statistics
               Year Ended December 31,
   (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 2012  2011    2010    Number of loans sold 
   22,240 
    26,345 
     22,146 
     28,744 
 Amount of loans sold (UPB) 
$ 3,255,732 
  $  4,105,243 
  $   3,170,903 
  $  4,309,247 
 Number of loans repurchased (1) 
   159     219      128      399  Amount of loans repurchased (UPB) (1) 
$ 18,102 
  $  29,123 
  $   19,442 
  $  61,754 
 Number of claims received 
   780     666      445      472  Successful dispute rate (2) 
   46 %   46 %    50 %     31 %  Number of make whole payments (3) 
   167     167      72      95  Amount of make whole payments (3) 
$ 11,445 
  $  9,432 
  $   5,553 
  $  7,679 
(1)Loans repurchased are loans that fail to meet the purchaser's terms.
   (2)Successful disputes are a percent of close out requests. 
  (3)Make whole payments are payments to
 reimburse for losses on foreclosed properties. 
   Compliance Risk  
 Financial institutions are subject to several laws, rules, and regul
ations at both the federal and 
state levels.  These broad-b
ased 
mandates include, but are not 
limited to, expectations relating to 
anti-money laundering, lending limits, client privacy, fair 
lending, 
and community reinvestment.  Additionally, the volume and complex
ity of recent regulatory changes have increased our overall 
compliance risk.  As such, we utilize various re
sources to help ensure expectations ar
e met, including a team of compliance exp
erts 
dedicated to ensuring our conformance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.  Our colleagues receive training for se
veral broad-based laws and regulations including, but not limited to, an
ti-money laundering and custom
er privacy.  Additionally, coll
eagues 
engaged in lending activities receive training for laws and regulations related to flood disaster protection, equal credit oppo
rtunity, fair 
lending, and / or other courses related to the extension of credit.
  We set a high standard of expectation for adherence to com
pliance management and seek to contin
uously enhance our performance. 
   66 
 Capital 
(This section should be read in conjunction
 with the Regulatory Matters section included 
in Part 1, Item 1 
and Note 14 of the N
otes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements.)   
 The following table presents risk-weighted assets and other financial data necessary to calcul
ate certain financial ratios, inc
luding 
the Tier 1 common equity ratio, which we use to measure capital adequacy: 
 Table 32 - Consolidated Capital Adequacy                           December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions)
   2013 2012  2011  2010  2009  Consolidated capital calculations: 
            Common shareholders' equity 
  $ 5,713 
  $ 5,404 
  $ 5,032 
  $ 4,618 
  $ 3,648 
    Preferred shareholders' equity 
   386    386    386    363    1,688 
  Total shareholders' equity 
   6,099 
   5,790 
   5,418 
   4,981 
   5,336 
    Goodwill    (444)   (444)   (444)   (444)   (444)    Other intangible assets 
   (93)   (132)   (175)   (229)   (289)    Other intangible asset deferred tax liability
(1)    33    46    61    80    101   Total tangible equity
(2)    5,595 
   5,260 
   4,860 
   4,388 
   4,704 
    Preferred shareholders' equity 
   (386)   (386)   (386)   (363)   (1,688)  Total tangible common equity
(2)   $ 5,209 
  $ 4,874 
  $ 4,474 
  $ 4,025 
  $ 3,016 
    Total assets 
  $ 59,476 
  $ 56,153 
  $ 54,451 
  $ 53,820 
  $ 51,555 
  Goodwill    (444)   (444)   (444)   (444)   (444)  Other intangible assets 
   (93)   (132)   (175)   (229)   (289)  Other intangible asset deferred tax liability
(1)    33    46    61    80    101 Total tangible assets
(2)   $ 58,972 
  $ 55,623 
  $ 53,893 
  $ 53,227 
  $ 50,923 
                  Tier 1 capital 
  $ 6,100 
  $ 5,741 
  $ 5,557 
  $ 5,022 
  $ 5,201 
    Preferred shareholders' equity 
   (386)   (386)   (386)   (363)   (1,688)    Trust-preferred securities 
   (299)   (299)   (532)   (570)   (570)    REIT-preferred stock 
   ---    (50)   (50)   (50)   (50)  Tier 1 common equity
(2)   $ 5,415 
  $ 5,006 
  $ 4,589 
  $ 4,039 
  $ 2,893 
  Risk-weighted assets (RWA) 
  $ 49,690 
  $ 47,773 
  $ 45,891 
  $ 43,471 
  $ 42,816 
  Tier 1 common equity / RWA ratio
(2)    10.90 
% 10.48 
%  10.00 
%  9.29 
%  6.76 
% Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(2)    9.49 
   9.46 
   9.02 
   8.24 
   9.24 
  Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(2)    8.83 
   8.76 
   8.30 
   7.56 
   5.92 
  Tangible common equity / RWA ratio
(2)    10.48 
   10.20 
   9.75 
   9.26 
   7.04 
  (1)Intangible assets are net of deferred tax liability and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(2)Tangible equity, Tier 1 common equity, tangible common equity, and tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures.  
Additionally, any ratios utilizing these financial measures are also non-GAAP.  These financial measures have been included as 
they 
are considered to be critical metrics with which to analyze and evaluate financial condition and capital strength.  Other compa
nies may calculate these financial measures differently. 
 Our Tier 1 common equity risk-based ra
tio improved 42 basis points to 10.90% at December 31, 2013, compared with 10.48% at 
December 31, 2012.  This increase primarily reflected the increase in retained earnings, partially offset by the repurchase of 
16.7 
million common shares and the impacts related to increased risk-weighted assets.    
   67 
 The following table presents certain
 regulatory capital data at both the consolidated 
and Bank levels for the past five years: 
  Table 33 -  Regulatory Capital Data
                                        At December 31, 
  (dollar amounts in millions)
     2013 2012  2011  2010  2009                            Total risk-weighted assets 
Consolidated 
$ 49,690 
$ 47,773 
$ 45,891 
$ 43,471 
$ 42,816 
      Bank  49,609 
  47,676 
 45,651 
 43,281 
 43,149 
  Tier 1 risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
 6,100 
  5,741 
 5,557 
 5,022 
 5,201 
      Bank  5,682 
  5,003 
 4,245 
 3,683 
 2,873 
  Tier 2 risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
 1,139 
  1,187 
 1,221 
 1,263 
 1,030 
      Bank  838   1,091 
 1,508 
 1,866 
 1,907 
  Total risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
 7,239 
  6,928 
 6,778 
 6,285 
 6,231 
      Bank  6,520 
  6,094 
 5,753 
 5,549 
 4,780 
  Tier 1 leverage ratio 
Consolidated 
   10.67 
%  10.36 
%  10.28 
%  9.41 
%   10.09 
%     Bank    9.97 
   9.05 
   7.89 
   6.97 
   5.59 
  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
   12.28 
   12.02 
   12.11 
   11.55 
   12.15 
      Bank    11.45 
   10.49 
   9.30 
   8.51 
   6.66 
  Total risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
   14.57 
   14.50 
   14.77 
   14.46 
   14.55 
      Bank    13.14 
   12.78 
   12.60 
   12.82 
   11.08 
    The increase in our consolidated Tier 1 risk-based capital ratios compared with December 31, 2012, primarily reflected an 
increase in retained earnings, partially offset by the repurchase 
of 16.7 million common shares and the impacts related to the 
payments 
of dividends. 
 Shareholders™ Equity 
 We generate shareholders™ equity primarily through earnings, net 
of dividends. Other potential so
urces of shareholders™ equity 
include issuances of common and preferred stock.  Our objective is
 to maintain capital at an amount commensurate with our risk 
profile and risk tolerance objectives, to meet both regulatory and 
market expectations, and to prov
ide the flexibility needed f
or future 
growth and business opportunities.  Shareholders™ equity totaled $6.1 billion at December 31, 2013, representing a $0.3 billion
, or 5%, 
increase compared with December 31, 2012, primar
ily due to an increase in retained earnings.   
 Dividends 
  We consider disciplined capital management as a key objective, 
with dividends representing one 
component.  Our strong capital 
ratios and expectations for continued earnings growth positions 
us to continue to actively explore additional capital managemen
t opportunities.  
 On January 16, 2014, our board of director
s declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0
.05 per common share, payable on April 1, 
2014.  Also, cash dividends of $0.05, $0.0
5, $0.05 and $0.04 per common share were de
clared on October 17, 2013, July 18, 2013,
 April 17, 2013 and January 17, 201
3, respectively.   Our 2013
 capital plan to the FRB included 
the continuation of our current 
common dividend through the 2014 first quarter.  
 
On January 16, 2014, our board of directors also declared a 
quarterly cash dividend on our 
8.50% Series A Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Convertible Preferred St
ock of $21.25 per share.  The dividend is paya
ble on April 1, 2014.  Cash dividends of $21.25
 per 
share were also declared on October 17, 2013, July 18, 2013, April 17, 2013 and January 17, 2013   
 
On January 16, 2014, our board of directors also declared a 
quarterly cash dividend on our Floating Rate Series B Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of $7.35 per share.  The di
vidend is payable on April 1, 2014.  Also, cash dividends of $7
.36, 
$7.42, $7.44 and $7.51 per share were declared on October 17, 2013, July 18, 2013, April 17, 2013 and January 17, 2013, 

respectively.   
   68 
 Share Repurchases 
  From time to time the board of directors authorizes the Comp
any to repurchase shares of our common stock.  Although we 
announce when the board of directors author
izes share repurchases, we do not give any public notice before we repurchase our sh
ares.  
Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market repurchases, including block transactions, accelerated or delayed block 
transactions, forward transactions, and si
milar transactions.  Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share 
repurchases, including our cap
ital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisi
tions, market conditions (including the trading price
 of our stock), and regulatory and lega
l considerations, including the FRB™s resp
onse to 
our capital plan.  
 
Our board of directors has authorized a sh
are repurchase program consistent with our
 capital plan of the potential repurchase o
f up to $227.0 million of common stock.  During 2013, we repurchased 16.7 million common shares at a weighted average share price
 of $7.46.  Huntington has the 
ability to repurchase up to $136 million of additio
nal shares of common stock through the first q
uarter of 2014. We intend to continue di
sciplined repurchase activity consistent with
 our annual capital plan, our capital return objecti
ves, and 
market conditions.  
 BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION 
 Overview 
 We have four major business segments: Retail and Business Ba
nking; Regional and Commercia
l Banking; Automobile Finance 
and Commercial Real Estate; and Wealth Advisors, Government Financ
e, and Home Lending.  A Treasury / Other function also 
includes our insurance business and other unallocated assets, liab
ilities, revenue, and expenses.  While this section reviews f
inancial 
performance from a business segment perspectiv
e, it should be read in conjunction with 
the Discussion of Results of Operations,
 Note 
25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and other 
sections for a full understanding of our consolidated financial
 performance.  
 
Business segment results are determined based upon our manage
ment reporting system, which assigns balance sheet and income 
statement items to each of the business segments.  The process 
is designed around our organiza
tional and management structure a
nd, accordingly, the results derived are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by other financial instituti
ons.    Revenue Sharing 
 Revenue is recorded in the business segment responsible for the 
related product or service.  Fee 
sharing is recorded to allocat
e portions of such revenue to other busine
ss segments involved in sellin
g to, or providing service to, cu
stomers.  Results of ope
rations 
for the business segments reflect these fee sharing allocations. 
 Expense Allocation 
 The management accounting process that 
develops the business segment repor
ting utilizes various estimates and allocation 
methodologies to measure the performance of 
the business segments.  Expenses are allo
cated to business segments using a two-pha
se approach.  The first phase consists of m
easuring and assigning unit costs (activity-b
ased costs) to activities related to produ
ct origination and servicing.  These 
activity-based costs are then extended, based on volumes, with
 the resulting amount allocated
 to business segments that own the related products.  The second ph
ase consists of the allocation of overhead costs to all four bus
iness 
segments from Treasury / Other.  We u
tilize a full-allocation methodology, where all Tr
easury / Other expenses, except those re
lated to our insurance business, reported Significant Items (except for the goodwill impairment), and a small amount of other residua
l unallocated expenses, are allocated to the four business segments.   
 Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP) 
 We use an active and centralized FTP methodology to attribute approp
riate income to the business 
segments. The intent of the 
FTP methodology is to transfer interest rate risk from the busi
ness segments by providing matc
hed duration funding of assets an
d liabilities. The result is to centralize the financial impact, manage
ment, and reporting of interest rate risk in the Treasury 
/ Other 
function where it can be centrally monitored and managed. The Tr
easury / Other function charges (credits) an internal cost of f
unds 
for assets held in (or pays for funding provided by) each busine
ss segment. The FTP rate is based on prevailing market interest
 rates 
for comparable duration assets (or liabilities).  
   69 
 Net Income by Business Segment 
  The segregation of net income by busine
ss segment for the past three years is 
presented in the following table: 
  Table 34 - Net Income by Business Segment
                   Year ended December 31,
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013  2012  2011   Retail and Business Banking 
$  67,895$  89,183 
$  175,395 Regional and Commercial Banking 
   117,720 129,112 
 109,846 AFCRE    202,901 201,203 
 186,151 WGH 
   64,748 93,534 
 25,883 Treasury / Other 
   185,477 127,990 
 45,338 Net income  
$  638,741$  641,022 
$  542,613                 Treasury / Other 
 The Treasury / Other function includes reve
nue and expense related to our insurance business, and assets, liabilities, and equi
ty not directly assigned or allocated to one of 
the four business segments.  Other assets 
include investment securities and bank o
wned life insurance.  The financial impact associated with our 
FTP methodology, as described above, is also included.  
 Net interest income includes the impact of administering our investment securities portfolios and the net impact of derivatives
 used to hedge interest rate sensitivity. Noni
nterest income includes insu
rance income, miscellaneous 
fee income not allocated t
o other 
business segments, such as bank owned life insurance income a
nd any investment security and trading asset gains or losses. 
Noninterest expense includes any insurance-related expenses, as well as certain corporate administrative, merger, and other 
miscellaneous expenses not allocated to other business segments. 
The provision for income taxes for the business segments is 
calculated at a statutory 35% tax rate, though our overall effective tax 
rate is lower. As a result, Treasury / Other reflects 
a credit for 
income taxes representing the difference between the lower actual effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate used to allocat
e income 
taxes to the business segments. 
 
The $57.5 million, or 45%, year over year increase in net in
come for Treasury/Other was primarily the result of the FTP process
 described above. The FTP process produced incr
eased net income for Treasury/Other as the sustained low market interest rate 
environment, combined with a sh
ift in funding mix to include additional wholesale 
sources, resulted in lower FTP credits paid t
o the 
business segments. 
 Optimal Customer Relationship (OCR) 
 Our OCR initiative is a cross-business segment strategy designed 
to increase overall customer 
profitability and retention by 
deepening product and service penetration to consumer and commercia
l customers.  We believe this can be accomplished by taking 
our broad array of services and products and delivering them thr
ough a rigorous and disciplined sales management process that i
s consistent across all business segments and re
gions.  It is also supported by robust 
sales and cross-referral technology.   
 OCR was introduced in late 2009.  Through 
2010, much of the effort was spent on defi
ning processes, sales training, and systems
 development to fully capture and measure OCR performance metrics.  In 2011, we introduc
ed OCR-related metrics for commercial 
relationships, which complements the previously disclosed consumer O
CR-related metrics.  In 2013, we continue to experience str
ong 
consumer household and commercial relationship growth. 
 CONSUMER OCR PERFORMANCE 
 For consumer OCR performance there are three key performance metrics: (1) the number of checking account households, (2) the 
number of product penetration per consumer checking household, and (3) the revenue generated from the consumer households of al
l business segments.  
 The growth in consumer checking account number of households
 is a result of both new sales of checking accounts and improved 
retention of existing checking account households.  The overall objective is to grow the number of households, along with an in
crease 
in product penetration. 
 70 
 We use the checking account since it typically represents the prim
ary banking relationship product.
 We count additional service
s by type, not number of services. For example,
 a household that has one checking account and one mortgage, we count as having tw
o services. A household with four checking acco
unts, we count as having one service. 
The household relationship utilizing four or
 more 
services is viewed to be more profitable and loyal. The over
all objective, therefore, is to decrease the percentage of 1-3 serv
ices per 
consumer checking account household, while increasing the percentage of those with 4 or more services. Since we have made 
significant strides toward having 
the vast majority of our customers with 4+ serv
ices, during the 2013 second quarter, we chang
ed our 
measurement to 6+ services. We are holding ourselves to a higher performance standard.  
 The following table presents consumer checking account household OCR metrics: 
 Table 35 - Consumer Checking Household OCR Cross-sell Report
                             Year ended December 31
           2013     2012    Number of households    1,324,971 
  1,228,812 
     Product Penetration by Number of Services 
         1 Service    3.0 
%   3.1 
%      2-3 Services    19.2 
  18.6 
      4-5 Services    30.2 
  31.1 
      6+ Services 
   47.6 
  47.2 
      Total revenue 
(in millions)
 $  948.1 
$   983.4 
      Our emphasis on cross-sell, coupled with cu
stomers increasingly being attracted by the 
benefits offered through our ﬁFair Playﬂ
 banking philosophy with programs 
such as 24-Hour Grace® on overdrafts and Aster
isk-Free CheckingŽ, are having a positive effect
.  The percent of consumer households with 6+ services at the end 
of 2013 was 47.6%, up from 47.2% at
 the end of last year.  For 2
013, 
consumer checking account househ
olds grew 8%.  Total consumer checking account 
household revenue in 2013 was $948.1 million, 
down $35.3 million, or 4%, from 2012. Household revenue was nega
tively impacted by the February 2013 implementation of a new 
posting order for consumer transactions. 
 COMMERCIAL OCR PERFORMANCE 
 For commercial OCR performan
ce, there are three key performance metrics: (1) th
e number of commercial 
relationships, (2) the 
number of services penetration per commercial relationship, an
d (3) the revenue generated.  Commercial relationships include 
relationships from all business segments.   
 The growth in the number of co
mmercial relationships is a result of both new sale
s of checking accounts and improved retention 
of existing commercial accounts.  The overall objective is to grow the number of relationships, alon
g with an increase in produ
ct service distribution. 
 The commercial relationship is defined as a business banking or commercial banking customer with a checking account 
relationship.  We use this metric because we believe that the checking account anchors a business relationship and creates the 
opportunity to increase our cro
ss-sell.  Multiple sales of the same type of service are counted as one service, the same as con
sumer. 
 
  71 
 The following table presents commercial relationship OCR metrics: 
 Table 36 - Commercial Relationship OCR Cross-sell Report
                              Year ended December 31,
    2013  2012  2011  Commercial Relationships 
   159,716 
  151,083 
   138,357 
  Product Penetration by Number of Services
        1 Service    21.1 
%   24.6 
%    28.4 
%  2-3 Services    41.4 
  40.4 
   40.2 
  4+ Services
    37.5 
  35.0 
   31.4 
  Total revenue 
(in millions)
 $  738.5 
$   724.4 
$   675.2 
    By focusing on targeted relationships we are able to achieve higher product service penetr
ation among our commercial 
relationships, and leverage these relations
hips to generate a deeper share of w
allet. The percent of co
mmercial relationships utilizing 4 
or more services at the end of 2013 was 37.5%, up from 35
.0% from the prior year. For 2013, commercial relationships grew 6%. 
Total commercial relationship revenue in 2013 was $738.5 million, up $14.1 million, or 2%, from 2012.   
72 
 Retail and Business Banking  Table 37 - Key Performance Indicators for Retail and Business Banking
                                              Change from 2012 
   (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
 2013  2012  Amount
 Percent 
  2011    Net interest income 
$ 813,871 
 $ 870,146
  $ (56,275)
   (6)
%  $ 932,385 
Provision for credit losses  137,898 
   136,061
   1,837 
   1      120,018 
Noninterest income 
 392,797 
   385,498
   7,299 
   2      405,265 
Noninterest expense  964,316 
   982,378
   (18,062)
   (2)
     947,794 
Provision for income taxes 
 36,559 
   48,022
   (11,463)
   (24)
     94,443 
Net income  
$ 67,895 
  $ 89,183
  $ (21,288)
   (24)
%   $ 175,395 
Number of employees (average full-time equivalent)
  5,220 
   5,084
   136    3 %    4,971 
Total average assets
 (in millions)
 $ 14,408 
  $ 14,307
  $ 101    1    $ 13,453 
Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
  12,699 
   12,697
   2    ---
     12,041 
Total average deposits 
(in millions)
  28,323 
   28,070
   253    1      28,507 
Net interest margin 
 2.89 
%  3.11
%  (0.22)
%  (7)
     3.26 
% NCOs $ 125,468 
  $ 158,577
  $ (33,109)
   (21)
    $ 170,199 
NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
 0.99 
%  1.25
%  (0.26)
%  (21)
     1.41 
% Return on average common equity 
 4.7 
   6.3
   (1.6)
   (25)
     12.4 
       2013 vs. 2012 
 Retail and Business Banking reported net income of $67.9 million in 2013.  This was a decrease of $21.3 million, or 24%, 
compared to the year-ago period.  The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The decrease in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  22 basis point decrease in net interest ma
rgin, primarily due to a 24 basis point 
decline in deposit spreads resulting from 
declining rates and reduced FTP rates. 

 Partially offset by:   $0.3 billion, or 1%, increase in to
tal average deposit balances.  
   6 basis points increase in loan 
spreads, primarily due to a reduction 
in FTP rates assigned to loans. 
 The increase in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $1.1 billion, or 15%, increase 
in money market deposits. 
  $0.7 billion, or 7%, increase in total demand deposits. 
 Partially offset by:   $1.6 billion, or 27%, decrease in core certificate
 of deposits, primarily due to the con
tinued focus on product mix in reducing
 the overall cost of deposits. 
 The increase in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $1.8 million, or 1%, increase, primarily due to growth of the new consumer credit card balances. 
 The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 73 
  $12.3 million, or 6%, increase in deposit service charge income, primarily due to strong household and account growth, 
offsetting a $27.5 million reduction in servi
ce charge revenue that resulted from our ch
ange in check pos
ting order early in 
2013. 

  $10.3 million, or 13%, increase in electronic
 banking income, primarily due to strong consumer ho
usehold growth combined 
with increased consumer debit card activity. 
 Partially offset by:   $10.0 million, or 17%, decrease in fee share re
venue, primarily related to mortgage banking. 
  $0.9 million, or 6%, decrease in gain on sale of loans. 
 The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $15.0 million, or 7%, decrease in personnel expenses in th
e branch network, primarily due to 
franchise repositioning expense initiatives. In 2013, we 
continued initiatives to improve 
teller efficiency and install new deposit automation ATM™s. 
  $11.9 million, or 20%, reduction in marketin
g expense, primarily due to lower level
s of advertising and reduced promotional 
offers. 
  $4.2 million, or 13%, reduction in amortization of intangibles. 

  $4.0 million, or 51%, reduction in 
professional services, primarily
 due to a decrease in outside consultant expenses and legal 
services related to collections. 
Partially offset by: 
  $21.1 million, or 5%, increase in 
other expenses, primarily due to 
an increase in allocated overhead. 
 2012 vs. 2011 
 Retail and Business Banking reported net income of $89.2 million in 2012, compared with a net income of $175.4 million in 
2011.  The $86.2 million decrease included 
a $62.2 million, or 7%, decrease in net in
terest income, a $34.6 
million, or 4%, inc
rease in 
noninterest expense, a $19.8 million, or 5%
, decrease in noninterest income, and a $16.0 million, or 13%, decrease in the provi
sion for 
credit losses, partially offset by a $46.4 million, 
or 49%, decrease in the provision for income taxes. 
74 
 Regional and Commercial Banking 
 Table 38 - Key Performance Indicators for Regional and Commercial Banking
                     Change from 2012 
        (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
   2013   2012   Amount
 Percent 
  2011    Net interest income
 $  276,480
 $  273,869 
  $  2,611 
   1 %   $   244,392 
  Provision for credit losses    16,982
   10,689 
   6,293 
   59        11,013 
  Noninterest income
    140,639
   138,454 
   2,185 
   2        127,315 
  Noninterest expense    219,029
   203,000 
   16,029 
   8        191,701 
  Provision for income taxes
    63,388
   69,522 
   (6,134)
   (9)
       59,147 
  Net income
 $  117,720
  $ 129,112 
  $  (11,392)
   (9)
%   $   109,846 
  Number of employees (average full-time 
equivalent)   668  630     38    6 %     592   Total average assets
 (in millions)
 $  12,008
  $  10,961 
  $  1,047 
   10     $   9,283 
  Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
    11,185
   10,076 
    1,109 
   11        8,326 
  Total average deposits 
(in millions)
    5,871
   5,324 
    547    10        3,882 
  Net interest margin
    2.59
%  2.80 
%   (0.21)
%  (8)
       2.95 
% NCOs $  (2,927)
  $ 35,217 
  $  (38,144)
   (108)
    $   39,568 
  NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
   (0.03)
%  0.35 
%   (0.38)
%  (109)
       0.48 
% Return on average common equity 
   10.6
   14.8 
    (4.2)
   (28)
       15.1 
   2013 vs. 2012  
 Regional and Commercial Banking reported net income of $117.7 mi
llion in 2013.  This was a decrease of $11.4 million, or 9%, 
compared to the year-ago period.  The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $1.1 billion, or 11%, increase in 
total average loans and leases.   $0.5 billion, or 10%, increase 
in average total deposits.  Partially offset by:   21 basis point decrease in the net interes
t margin, primarily due to compressed de
posit spreads resulting from declining rates 
and reduced FTP rates.   
 The increase in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $0.4 billion, or 18%, increase in the equipmen
t finance portfolio average balance, prim
arily due to our focus on developing 
vertical strategies in business aircraft, rail industry,
 lender finance, municipal, and syndications. 
  $0.4 billion, or 39%, increase in 
the healthcare portfolio av
erage balance, primarily due to a 
strategic focus on the banking 
needs of the healthcare industry, specifically targeting alternate site real estate, seniors™ real estate, medical technology, 
community hospitals, metro hospitals
, and health care services.  
  $0.3 billion, or 7%, in the middle market po
rtfolio average balance, primarily in ou
r major metro markets overcoming a $0.1 
billion, or 4%, reduction in the funded 
balances of lines of credit due to a re
duction in the average utilization rate. 
 The increase in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $0.5 billion, or 10%, increase in core deposits, primarily due to a $0.3 billion, or 14%, increase in money market account 
deposits and a $0.2 billion, or 8%, increase in noninteres
t-bearing demand deposits.  
Regional and Commercial Banking 
initiated a strategic focus to gain a deep
er share of wallet with certain key relationships. This focus was specifically target
ed 
to liquidity solutions for these customers and resulted in significant deposit growth. Middle market accounts, such as not-for-
75 
 profit universities and healthcare, contri
buted $0.4 billion of the ba
lance growth, while large corporate accounts contributed 
$0.1 billion.   
 The increase in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
  Provision expense increased, as a result of our enhanced commercial risk rating system that increases the granularity of the 
risk ratings resulting in an increase in 
the portfolio risk rating pr
ofile. However, there was a 
net reduction in loss given 
default rates within the C&I portfolio due to the incorporation of current collateral values in the risk determination process.
  Partially offset by:   A continued improvement in the credit quality of the portfolio, as evidenced by a 38 basis point reduction in NCOs and a $23 
million, or 59% decline in non-performing assets. 
 The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $6.3 million, or 25%, increase in commitment and other loan
 fees, primarily due to increased syndications activity. 
  $1.1 million, or 100%, increase in the sale of Hu
ntington Investment Company related products.   
 Partially offset by:   $4.1 million, or 10%, decrease in deposit service charge income
 and other Treasury Management related revenue, primarily 
due to the impact of earnings credits by our customers. 
  $1.8 million, or 4%, decrease in capital markets related income attr
ibuted to a $3.3 million, or 15%, decrease in sales of 
customer interest rate protection products, partially offset by a $1.0 million, or 9% increa
se in foreign exchange revenue.   
 The increase in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $7.2 million, or 31%, increase in allocated overhead. 
  $6.5 million, or 6%, increase in personnel costs, primarily due 
to our strategic investments in
 our core footprint markets, 
vertical strategies, and product capabilities. 
  $2.7 million, or 31%, increase in outside data processing and ot
her services, primarily due to Treasury Management products 
and services, such as the new Commercial 
Card product implemen
ted in 2013.   
  $1.1 million, or 35%, increase in equipment expense, primarily
 due to the increased deployment of Treasury Management 
remote deposit capture units, as well as investments in a Tr
easury Management payables project, commodities system, and 
syndications system. 
  Partially offset by:   $2.4 million, or 22%, decrease in credit administration relate
d expenses, reflecting the continued improvement in the 
commercial loan portfolio, as ev
idenced by a 41% reduction in the average b
alance of the SAD portfolio compared to the 
year ago period. 

 2012 vs. 2011 
 
Regional and Commercial Banking reported net income of $129.1 
million in 2012, compared with a net income of $109.8 million 
in 2011.  The $19.3 million increase included a $29.5 million, or 12
%, increase in net interest income, a $11.1 million, or 9%,
 increase 
in noninterest income, and a $0.3 milli
on, or 3%, decrease in the provision for cred
it losses, partially offset by a $11.3 mill
ion, or 6%, 
increase in noninterest expense. 
76 
 Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
 Table 39 - Key Performance Indicators for Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
                        Change from 2012 
      (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
 2013  2012  Amount
 Percent 
  2011  Net interest income 
$ 356,488 
  $ 356,442 
  $ 46    ---
%   $ 364,449 
  Provision for credit losses  (71,312)
   (22,962)
   (48,350)
   211      (8,939)
  Noninterest income 
 34,099 
   84,619 
   (50,520)
   (60)
     77,623 
  Noninterest expense  149,744 
   154,480 
   (4,736)
   (3)
     164,626 
  Provision for income taxes 
 109,254 
   108,340 
   914    1      100,234 
  Net income  
$ 202,901 
  $ 201,203 
  $ 1,698 
   1 %   $ 186,151 
  Number of employees (average full-time 
equivalent)  270    271    (1)
   ---
%    278   Total average assets 
(in millions)
 $ 12,654 
  $ 12,424 
  $ 230    2     $ 13,025 
  Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
  12,062 
   11,380 
   682    6      12,985 
  Total average deposits
 (in millions)
  992    889    103    12      786   Net interest margin 
 2.81 
%   2.84 
%   (0.03)
%   (1)
     2.74 
%  NCOs $ 31,970 
  $ 80,244 
  $ (48,274)
   (60)
    $ 153,715 
  NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
 0.27 
%   0.71 
%   (0.44)
%   (62)
     1.18 
%  Return on average common equity 
 38.2 
   33.9 
   4.3 
   13      27.3 
   2013 vs. 2012 
 AFCRE reported net income of $202.9 million in
 2013.  This was an increase of $1.7 m
illion, or 1%, compared to the year-ago 
period. The increase in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 

 The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $0.7 billion, or 6%, increase in average loans and leases.  
 Partially offset by:   $0.6 billion, or 78%, decrease in averag
e loans held for sale related to au
tomobile loan securitization activities.  
  3 basis point decrease in the net interest margin. 
  The increase in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected:  
  A $1.2 billion, or 25%, increase in
 automobile loans.  Indirect 
automobile loan originations to
taled $4.2 billion, up 5% from 
2012. 
  $0.2 billion, or 8%, increase in automobile 
floor plan and other commercial loans. 
 Partially offset by:   $0.6 billion, or 14%, decrease in
 commercial real estate loans. 
 The decrease in the reduction in allowance for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
  A $48.3 million, or 60% decrease in net charge-offs, primar
ily due to a net overall improvement in the real estate 
market.  The market improvement is
 reflected in both the number 
of defaults and the LGD rate
s, which are driven primarily 
by real estate recovery rates.   
   77 
 The decrease in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $42.4 million, or 100%, decrease in gains on sales of loans, 
primarily due to the securitization and sale totaling $2.5 billion
 of indirect auto loans du
ring 2012, with no similar transactions occurring in 2013. 
  $8.2 million, or 80%, decrease in operating l
ease income, primarily due to the continued runoff of that portfolio as we exited 
that business at the end of 2008.  
 The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $6.3 million, or 81%, decrease in operating lease expense, pri
marily due to the continued runoff of that portfolio. 
  2012 vs. 2011 
 AFCRE reported net income of $201.2 million in 2012, compared with a net income of $186.2 million in 2011. The $15.1 million 
increase included a $10.1 million, or 6%, decrease in noninterest expense, a $14.0 million, or 157%, decrease in the provision 
for 
credit losses, partially offset by 
a $8.0 million, or 2%, decr
ease in net interest income. 
78 
 Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending    
  Table 40 - Key Performance Indicators for Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending
                               Change from 2012
          (dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
   2013   2012   Amount
 Percent 
  2011   Net interest income 
$  172,033 
  $  192,681 
  $  (20,648)
   (11)
%   $   199,536
   Provision for credit losses 
   6,477 
    23,600 
    (17,123)
   (73)
       51,967
   Noninterest income 
   299,588 
    351,057 
    (51,469)
   (15)
       248,764
   Noninterest expense     365,531 
    376,239 
    (10,708)
   (3)
       356,513
   Provision for income taxes 
   34,865 
    50,365 
    (15,500)
   (31)
       13,937
   Net income 
$  64,748 
  $  93,534 
  $  (28,786)
   (31)
%   $   25,883
   Number of employees (average full-time equivalent) 
   2,161 
   2,110 
    51   2 %      2,090
   Total average assets 
(in millions)
 $  7,516 
  $  7,610 
  $  (94)
   (1)
    $   6,778
   Total average loans/leases 
(in millions)
    5,860 
   5,994 
    (134)
   (2)
       5,437
   Total average deposits (in millions) 
   9,714 
   9,711 
    3   ---
       8,134
   Net interest margin 
   1.75 
%   1.87 
%   (0.12)
%  (6)
       2.16
%  NCOs $  27,415 
  $  43,038 
  $  (15,623)
   (36)
    $   57,485
   NCOs as a % of average loans and leases 
   0.47 
%   0.72 
%   (0.25)
%  (35)
       1.06
%  Return on average common equity 
   9.0 
   12.8 
    (3.8)
   (30)
       3.8
   Mortgage banking origination volume (in millions) 
$  4,418 
  $  4,833 
  $  (415)
   (9)
    $  3,921
             Noninterest income shared with other business 
segments
(1) 
   39,357 
   46,744 
    (7,387)
   (16)
       42,761
   Total assets under management 
(in billions) - eop
    16.7 
   15.9 
    0.8
   5        14.6
   Total trust assets (in billions) - eop
    80.9 
   73.9 
    7.0
   9        59.3
                   eop - End of Period.
                             (1)Amount is not included in noninterest income reported above. 
                       2013 vs. 2012 
 WGH reported net income of $64.7 million in
 2013.  This was a decrease of $28.8 millio
n, or 31%, when compared to the year-
ago period. The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors described below. 
 The decrease in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  12 basis point decrease in the net interes
t margin, primarily due to compressed de
posit spreads resulting from declining rates 
and reduced FTP rates. 
  $0.1 billion, or 2%, decrease in
 average loans and leases. 
 The decrease in provision for credit losses reflected:  

  $20.3 million, or 8%, d
ecrease in delinquencies. 
  $15.4 million, or 10%, decrease in classified assets. 
  $15.6 million, or 36%, decline in NCOs. 
 The decrease in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $58.8 million, or 37%, decrease in mortgage banking income pri
marily due to lower production 
volumes, a higher percentage 
of mortgages retained on the balance sheet, and narrower spread on production.   
   79 
 Partially offset by:   $6.7 million, or 74%, increase in other income, primarily due to a gain on sale of certain Low Income Housing Tax Credit 
investments. 

  $1.2 million, or 14%, increase in service charges on deposit accounts, primarily due to increased fees related to several high 

check volume commercial accounts. 
 The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
  $4.7 million, or 5%, decrease in other expenses, primar
ily due to lower mortgage repurchase expense. 
  $3.9 million, or 11%, decrease in outside data processing and other 
services expense, as we continue to invest in technology 
supporting our products, services, an
d continuous impr
ovement initiatives.  
 Partially offset by:   $1.9 million, or 1%, increase in personnel costs. 
  2012 vs. 2011 
 WGH reported net income of $93.5 million 
in 2012, compared with a 
net income of $25.9 milli
on in 2011.  The $67.6 million 
increase included a $102.3 million, or 41%, increase in noninterest inco
me, a $28.4 million, or 55%, decrease in the provision 
for 
credit losses partially offset by a $19.7 mi
llion, or 6% increase in noninterest expe
nse and a $6.9 million, or 3%, decrease in
 net interest income. 
 RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER  
 Earnings Discussion 
 In the 2013 fourth quarter, we reported net income of $157.8 
million, a decrease of $9.5 million, or 6%, from the 2012 fourth 
quarter, as a $51.0 million, or 17%, decrea
se in noninterest income to
tal revenue more than offset 
a $24.6 million, or 5%, decr
ease in 
noninterest expense and $15.1 million, or 38%, 
decrease in the provision for credit losses. 
 Table 41 - Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparison
(dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts)
                                     Impact
(1) Three Months Ended:
 Amount EPS
(2)   December 31, 2013 - GAAP net income
 $ 157.8 
 $ 0.18 
     Franchise repositioning related expense (3) 
  (6.7)    (0.01) 
                      December 31, 2012 - GAAP net income 
$  167.3 
  $ 0.19 
                                      (1) Favorable (unfavorable) impact on GAAP earnings; pretax unless otherwise noted.
 (2) After-tax.  EPS is reflected on a fully diluted basis.
             (3) Pretax
              Net Interest Income / Average Balance Sheet  FTE net interest income of $4
38.8 million was relatively uncha
nged from the year-ago quarter, re
flecting a $2.3 billion, or 5%,
 increase in average earnings assets offset by a 17 basis point decrease in NIM.   
   80 
 The following table presents the 
$2.7 billion, or 7%, increase in
 average total loans and leases: 
 Table 42 - Average Loans/Leases - 2013 Fourth Quarter vs. 2012 Fourth 
Quarter
                                                 Fourth Quarter  Change (dollar amounts in millions)
 2013  2012   Amount 
Percent 
Average Loans/Leases 
                      Commercial and industrial 
$  17,671 
$   16,507 
  $  1,164 
 7 %     Commercial real estate 
   4,904 
   5,473 
     (569) (10)    Total commercial 
   22,575 
   21,980 
     595  3       Automobile 
   6,502 
   4,486 
     2,016 
 45       Home equity    8,346 
   8,345 
     1  ---      Residential mortgage    5,331 
   5,155 
     176  3       Other consumer 
   385    431      (46) (11)    Total consumer 
   20,564 
   18,417 
     2,147 
 12   Total loans/leases 
$  43,139 
$   40,397 
  $  2,742 
 7 %  The increase in average total loans and leases reflected:
  $1.2 billion, or 7%, increase in average C&I 
loans and leases.  This reflected the co
ntinued growth within the middle market 
healthcare vertical, equipment finance, and dealer floorplan. 
  $2.0 billion, or 45%, increase in 
average on balance sheet automob
ile loans, as the growth 
in originations, while below 
industry levels, remained strong and our investments in the 
Northeast and upper Midwest continued to grow as planned.  
 Partially offset by:   $0.6 billion, or 10%, decrease in 
average CRE loans, as acceptab
le returns for new originations were balanced against 
internal concentration limits and increased competition for projects sponsore
d by high quality developers.  
 The following table details the $7.0
 million, or less than 1%, in
crease in average total deposits:  Table 43 - Average Deposits - 2013 Fourth Quarter vs. 2012 Fourth Quarter
                                                  Fourth Quarter  Change (dollar amounts in millions)
 2013  2012   Amount 
Percent  
Average Deposits 
                     Demand deposits: noninterest-bearing 
$  13,337 
$  13,121 
  $  216  2 %    Demand deposits: interest-bearing 
   5,755 
  5,843 
     (88) (2)    Total demand deposits 
   19,092 
  18,964 
     128  1       Money market deposits 
   16,827 
  14,749 
     2,078 
 14       Savings and other domestic deposits 
   4,912 
  4,960 
     (48) (1)      Core certificates of deposit 
   3,916 
  5,637 
     (1,721) (31)    Total core deposits 
   44,747 
  44,310 
     437  1     Other deposits    2,027 
  2,457 
     (430) (18)  Total deposits $  46,774 
$  46,767 
  $  7  --- % The increase in average total deposits from the year-ago quarter reflected:  
 Average core certificates of deposit declined primarily due to th
e strategic focus on changing th
e funding sources to no-cost 
demand deposits and low-cost money market deposits.  This strategy
, along with a strategic focus on customer growth and increas
ed share of wallet among both consumer and commercial customers resulted an increase in money market deposits. 
 81 
 Provision for Credit Losses 
 The provision for credit losses in 
the 2013 fourth quarter was $24.3 million, dow
n $15.1 million, or 38%, from the year-ago 
quarter, reflecting a reduction of the ACL as 
a result of the improvement in the underl
ying credit quality of the loan portfoli
o.  The 2013 fourth quarter provision 
for credit losses was $22.1 million less than to
tal NCOs, reflecting the resolution of problem lo
ans for which reserves had been previously established.  
 Noninterest Income 
 Table 44 - Noninterest Income - 2013 Fourth Quarter vs. 2012 Fourth Quarter
                           Fourth Quarter Change (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013  2012    Amount  Percent 
  Service charges on deposit accounts  
$ 69,992 
  $  68,083 
  $  1,909 
3 %   Mortgage banking income 
   24,327 
  61,711 
    (37,384)(61)    Trust services  
   30,711 
  31,388 
    (677)(2)    Electronic banking 
   24,251 
  21,011 
    3,240 
15     Insurance income 
   15,556 
  17,268 
    (1,712)(10)    Brokerage income 
   15,116 
  17,415 
    (2,299)(13)    Bank owned life insurance income 
   13,816 
  13,767 
    49  ---    Capital markets fees 
   12,332 
  12,918 
    (586)(5)    Gain on sale of loans 
   7,144 
  20,690 
    (13,546)(65)    Securities gains (losses) 
   1,239 
  863     376 44     Other income  
   32,144 
  32,537 
    (393)(1)  Total noninterest income  
$ 246,628 
$  297,651 
  $  (51,023)(17)%                Noninterest income decreased $51.0 million, or 17%, from the 
year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting a $37.4 million, or 61%, decrease in mortgage banking income and a $17 million au
tomobile loan securitization gain
 in the year-ago quarter.
    Noninterest Expense 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Item 2.) 
 Table 45 - Noninterest Expense - 2013 Fourth Quarter vs. 2012 Fourth Quarter
         Fourth Quarter Change (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013   2012    Amount  Percent 
  Personnel costs 
$ 249,554 
$   253,952 
  $  (4,398)(2)%    Outside data processing and other services 
   51,071 
  48,699 
    2,372 
5     Net occupancy 
   31,983 
  29,008 
    2,975 
10     Equipment    28,775 
  26,580 
    2,195 
8     Marketing 
   13,704 
  16,456 
    (2,752)(17)    Deposit and other insurance expense 
   10,056 
  16,327 
    (6,271)(38)    Amortization of intangibles 
   10,320 
   11,647 
    (1,327)(11)    Professional services 
   11,567 
  22,514 
    (10,947)(49)    Other expense 
   38,979 
  45,445 
    (6,466)(14)  Total noninterest expense $ 446,009 
$   470,628 
  $  (24,619)(5)%    Number of employees (average full-time 
equivalent) 
   11,765 
  11,789 
     (24)- %   Noninterest expense decreased $24.6 milli
on, or 5%, reflecting the Company™s continue
d disciplined expense management.  The 
2013 fourth quarter also included
 $6.7 million of franchise repo
sitioning expense related to the 
consolidation of 22 branches, 
severance, and facilities optimization.  
  82 
 Provision for Income Taxes 
 The provision for income taxes in the 2013 fourth quarter was $4
9.1 million and $54.3 million in the 2012 fourth quarter. The 
effective tax rate in the 2013 fourth quarter was 23.7% compared to 24.5% in the 2012 fourth quarter. At December 31, 2013 and 
2012 we had a net deferred tax asset of $137.6 million and $203.9 million, respectively.  
 Credit Quality  Credit quality performance in the 2
013 fourth quarter reflected con
tinued improvement in the over
all loan portfolio relating to
 NCO activity, as well as in key credit quality 
metrics, including a 21% decline in NPAs.  
 
NCOs 
 Total NCOs for the 2013 fourth qu
arter were $46.4 million, or an annualized 0.43% 
of average total loans and leases.  NCOs in 
the year-ago quarter were $70
.1 million, or an annualized 0.69%. These declines reflected improvement in the overall credit qua
lity of the portfolio.     

 NALs 
 Total NALs were $322.1 million at December 31, 2013, and represented 0.75% of total loans and leases.  This was down $85.6 
million, or 21%, from $407.6 million, or 1.00%, 
of total loans and leases at the end of 
the year ago period.  This decrease pri
marily 
reflected substantial improvement in
 the C&I and CRE portfolio, partially offset by 
an increase in consumer NALs resulting from
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy consumer loans. 
 ACL 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 
 ACL as a percent of total loans and leases at December 31, 2013, was 1.65%, down from 1.99% at December 31, 2012.  We 
believe the decline in the ratio is appropr
iate given the continued improvement in the ri
sk profile of our lo
an portfolio.  Fur
ther, we 
believe that early identification of loans with changes in credit metrics and aggressive action plans for these loans, combined
 with originating high quality new loans will 
contribute to continued improvement in our key credit quality metrics.   
  83 
 Table 46 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)     2013  (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 Fourth  Third  Second  
First    Interest income $ 469,824 
  $ 462,912 
  $ 462,582 
  $ 465,319 
    Interest expense 
   39,175 
    38,060 
    37,645 
     41,149 
  Net interest income
    430,649 
    424,852 
    424,937 
     424,170 
  Provision for credit losses    24,331 
    11,400 
    24,722 
     29,592 
  Net interest income after provision for credit losses
    406,318 
     413,452 
     400,215 
     394,578 
  Total noninterest income 
    246,628 
     250,503 
     248,655 
     252,209 
  Total noninterest expense
    446,009 
     423,336 
     445,865 
     442,793 
  Income before income taxes
    206,937 
    240,619 
    203,005 
     203,994 
  Provision for income taxes
    49,114 
    62,132 
    52,354 
     52,214 
  Net income
 $ 157,823 
  $ 178,487 
  $ 150,651 
  $ 151,780 
  Dividends on preferred shares
    7,965 
    7,967 
    7,967 
     7,970 
  Net income applicable to common shares
 $ 149,858 
  $ 170,520 
  $ 142,684 
  $ 143,810 
  Common shares outstanding                   Average - basic 
   830,590 
    830,398 
    834,730 
     841,103 
    Average - diluted
(2)  842,324 
    841,025 
    843,840 
     848,708 
    Ending 
   830,963 
    830,145 
    829,675 
     838,758 
    Book value per common share 
$ 6.88 
  $ 6.72 
  $ 6.51 
  $ 6.53 
    Tangible book value per common share
(3)  6.27 
     6.10 
     5.88 
     5.91 
    Per common share                   Net income - basic 
$ 0.18 
  $  0.21 
  $  0.17 
  $  0.17 
    Net income - diluted 
   0.18 
    0.20 
    0.17 
     0.17 
    Cash dividends declared 
   0.05 
    0.05 
    0.05 
     0.04 
  Common stock price, per share
                   High(4) $ 9.73 
  $  8.78 
  $  7.96 
  $  7.55 
    Low(4)  8.04 
    7.90 
    6.82 
     6.48 
    Close    9.65 
    8.26 
    7.87 
     7.37 
    Average closing price 
   8.98 
   8.45 
   7.46 
   7.07 
  Return on average total assets
    1.09 
%  1.27 
%  1.08 
%   1.10 
% Return on average common shareholders' equity
    10.5 
   12.3 
   10.4 
   10.7 
  Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity
(5)    12.1 
   14.1 
   12.0 
   12.4 
  Efficiency ratio
(6)
    63.7 
   60.6 
   64.0 
   63.3 
  Effective tax rate
    23.7 
   25.8 
   25.8 
   25.6 
  Margin analysis-as a % of average earning assets
(7)                   Interest income(7)  3.58 
%    3.64 
%    3.68 
%     3.75 
%   Interest expense 
   0.30 
     0.30 
     0.30 
     0.33 
    Net interest margin 
(7)  3.28 
%    3.34 
%    3.38 
%     3.42 
% Revenue - FTE                   Net interest income  
$ 430,649 
  $ 424,852 
  $ 424,937 
  $ 424,170 
    FTE adjustment 
   8,196 
    6,634 
    6,587 
     5,923 
  Net interest income
(7)    438,845 
    431,486 
    431,524 
     430,093 
  Noninterest income
    246,628 
    250,503 
    248,655 
     252,209 
  Total revenue 
(7) $ 685,473 
  $ 681,989 
  $ 680,179 
  $ 682,302 
  Continued 
                          84 
 Table 46 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement, Capital, and Other Data - Continued
(1)          Capital adequacy
   2013    December 31, September 30, 
June 30, March 31, 
                    Total risk-weighted assets 
(in millions)
 $ 49,690 
  $ 48,687 
  $ 48,080 
  $   47,937 
  Tier 1 leverage ratio
    10.67 
%    10.85 
%    10.64 
%     10.57 
% Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
    12.28 
     12.36 
     12.24 
     12.16 
  Total risk-based capital ratio
    14.57 
     14.67 
     14.57 
     14.55 
  Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio
    10.90 
     10.85 
     10.71 
     10.62 
  Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(8)    8.83 
     9.02 
     8.78 
     8.92 
  Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(9)    9.49 
     9.71 
     9.47 
     9.62 
  Tangible common equity / risk-weighted assets ratio
    10.48 
     10.40 
     10.15 
     10.34 
    85 
 Table 47 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)     2012  (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 Fourth  Third  Second  First    Interest income $ 478,995 
  $ 483,787 
  $ 487,544 
  $ 479,937 
    Interest expense 
   44,940 
     53,489 
     58,582 
     62,728 
  Net interest income 
   434,055 
     430,298 
     428,962 
     417,209 
  Provision for credit losses 
   39,458 
     37,004 
     36,520 
     34,406 
  Net interest income after provision for credit losses 
   394,597 
     393,294 
     392,442 
     382,803 
  Total noninterest income  
   297,651 
     261,067 
     253,819 
     285,320 
  Total noninterest expense 
   470,628 
     458,303 
     444,269 
     462,676 
  Income before income taxes 
   221,620 
     196,058 
     201,992 
     205,447 
  Provision for income taxes 
   54,341 
     28,291 
     49,286 
     52,177 
  Net income 
$ 167,279 
  $ 167,767 
  $ 152,706 
  $ 153,270 
  Dividends on preferred shares 
   7,973 
     7,983 
     7,984 
     8,049 
  Net income applicable to common shares 
$ 159,306 
  $ 159,784 
  $ 144,722 
  $ 145,221 
  Common shares outstanding 
                  Average - basic 
   847,220 
     857,871 
     862,261 
     864,499 
    Average - diluted
(2)  853,306 
     863,588 
     867,551 
     869,164 
    Ending 
   842,813 
     855,485 
     858,401 
     864,675 
    Book value per share 
$ 6.41 
  $ 6.34 
  $ 6.13 
  $ 5.97 
    Tangible book value per share
(3)  5.78 
     5.71 
     5.49 
     5.33 
          Per common share 
                  Net income - basic 
$ 0.19 
  $  0.19 
  $  0.17 
  $  0.17 
    Net income  - diluted 
   0.19 
     0.19 
     0.17 
     0.17 
    Cash dividends declared 
   0.04 
     0.04 
     0.04 
     0.04 
  Common stock price, per share 
                  High(4) $ 7.20 
  $  7.20 
  $  6.77 
  $  6.58 
    Low(4)  5.90 
     6.16 
     5.84 
     5.49 
    Close    6.39 
     6.90 
     6.40 
     6.45 
    Average closing price 
   6.42 
   6.56 
   6.37 
   5.97 
  Return on average total assets 
   1.19 
%  1.19 
%  1.10 
%   1.13 
% Return on average common shareholders' equity 
   11.6 
   11.9 
   11.1 
   11.4 
  Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity
(5)    13.5 
   13.9 
   13.1 
   13.5 
  Efficiency ratio
(6)
    62.3 
   64.5 
   62.8 
   63.8 
  Effective tax rate (benefit) 
   24.5 
   14.4 
   24.4 
   25.4 
  Margin analysis-as a % of average earning assets
(7)                   Interest income(7)  3.80 
%    3.79 
%    3.89 
%     3.91 
%   Interest expense 
   0.35 
     0.41 
     0.47 
     0.51 
    Net interest margin 
(7)  3.45 
%    3.38 
%    3.42 
%     3.40 
% Revenue - FTE                   Net interest income  
$ 434,055 
  $ 430,298 
  $ 428,962 
  $ 417,209 
    FTE adjustment 
   5,470 
     5,254 
     5,747 
     3,935 
  Net interest income
(7)    439,525 
     435,552 
     434,709 
     421,144 
  Noninterest income 
   297,651 
     261,067 
     253,819 
     285,320 
  Total revenue 
(7) $ 737,176 
  $ 696,619 
  $ 688,528 
  $ 706,464 
    Continued 
                          86 
  Table 47 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement, Capital, and Other Data - Continued 
(1)  Capital adequacy
 2012     December 31,
 September 30, 
June 30, March 31, 
          Total risk-weighted assets 
(in millions)
 $  47,773 
  $  48,147 
  $  47,890 
  $  46,716 
   Tier 1 leverage ratio 
   10.36 
%    10.29 
%    10.34 
%     10.55 
%  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
   12.02 
     11.88 
     11.93 
     12.22 
   Total risk-based capital ratio 
   14.50 
     14.36 
     14.42 
     14.76 
   Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio 
   10.48 
     10.28 
     10.08 
     10.15 
   Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(8)    8.76 
     8.74 
     8.41 
     8.33 
   Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(9)    9.46 
     9.43 
     9.10 
     9.03 
   Tangible common equity / risk-weighted assets ratio 
   10.20 
     10.14 
     9.85 
     9.86 
           (1)Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to the Significant Items section for additional 
discussion regarding these items.
   (2)For all quarterly periods presented above, the impact of the convertible preferred stock issued in April of 2008 was excluded f
rom the diluted share calculation because the result would have been higher than basic earnings per common share (anti-dilutive) fo
r the 
periods.   (3)Deferred tax liability related to other intangible assets is calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
  (4)High and low stock prices are intra-day quotes obtained from NASDAQ. 
  (5)Net income excluding expense for amortization of intangibles for the period divided by average tangible shareholders' equity.  
Average tangible shareholders' equity equals average total stockholders' equity less average intangible assets and goodwill.  E
xpense for amortization of intangibles and average intangible assets 
are net of deferred tax liability, and calculated assuming a 35% 
tax rate.
  (6)Noninterest expense less amortization of intangibles divided by the sum of FTE net interest income and noninterest income 
excluding securities (losses) gains.   (7)Presented on a FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
  (8)Tangible common equity (total common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets
 less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax
 rate. 
  (9)Tangible equity (total equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets less goodwill
 and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
  87 
 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 
 Forward-Looking Statements 
  This report, including MD&A, contains
 certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, 
projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assump
tions, risks, and uncertainties. 
 Statements that do not descr
ibe 
historical or current facts,
 including statements about beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looki
ng 
statements may be identified by
 words such as expect,
 anticipate, believe, intend, estimate
, plan, target, goal, or similar exp
ressions, or 
future or conditional verbs such as will,
 may, might, should, would, could, or simi
lar variations. The forward-looking statemen
ts are intended to be subject to the safe harbor 
provided by Section 27A of the Securitie
s Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, and the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
 While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors whi
ch 
could cause actual results to differ material
ly from those contained or implied in th
e forward-looking statements:  (1) worseni
ng of 
credit quality performance due to a number of
 factors such as the underlying value 
of collateral that could prove less valuable
 than 
otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows may be worse than ex
pected; (2) changes in general economic, political, or industry 
conditions; uncertainty in U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board; 
volatility 
and disruptions in global capital 
and credit markets; (3) movements 
in interest rates; (4) compet
itive pressures on product pri
cing and 
services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any new products or servic
es implementing our ﬁFair Playﬂ banking philosophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the accuracy of our 
assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption 
of vital infrastructure; (8) the fi
nal outcome of significant litigation; (9) the na
ture, extent, timing, and results of gov
ernmental actions, examinations, reviews, 
reforms, 
regulations, and interpretations, including those related to the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act and 
the 
Basel III regulatory capital reforms, as well as those involv
ing the OCC, Federal Reserve, FDIC, and CFPB; and (10) the outcome
 of 
judicial and regulatory d
ecisions regarding practices in the residential mort
gage industry, including among other things the pr
ocesses 
followed for foreclosing residential mortgages.      
 
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they
 are made and are based on information available at that time. We 
assume no obligation to update fo
rward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forw
ard-
looking statements were made or to reflect the occurrence of un
anticipated events except as requi
red by federal securities laws
.  As 
forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, caution should be exercised against placing undue relia
nce on such statements. 

 Non-Regulatory Capital Ratios  
 In addition to capital ratios defined by bankin
g regulators, the Company considers various
 other measures when evaluating capit
al utilization and adequacy, including:  
    Ł   Tangible common equity to tangible assets,  
    Ł   Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted 
assets using Basel I and Basel III definitions, and 
    Ł   Tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets using Basel I definition.  
 These non-regulatory capital ratio
s are viewed by management as useful additio
nal methods of reflectin
g the level of capital 
available to withstand unexpected market co
nditions. Additionally, presentation of thes
e ratios allows reader
s to compare the 
Company™s capitalization to other financial services companies. 
These ratios differ from capital ratios defined by banking regu
lators principally in that the numerato
r excludes preferred securities, the nature and ex
tent of which varies among different financia
l services companies. These ratios are not defined in Generally Accepted Ac
counting Principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) or federal banking regulations. As
 a result, these non-regulatory capital ratios 
disclosed by the Company are consid
ered non-GAAP financial measures. 
 Because there are no standardized definitions for these non-regulatory capital ratios, the Company™s calculation methods may 
differ from those used by other financial services companies. Also, there may be limits in the usefulness of these measures to 
investors. As a result, the Company encourages readers to consider the consolidated financial statements and other financial 
information contained in this Form 10-K in
 their entirety, and not to rely on any 
single financial measure. Basel III Tier 1 co
mmon 
capital ratio estimates are based on management™s current in
terpretation, expectations, and understanding of the final U.S. Bas
el III rules adopted by the Federal Reserve Board and released on July 2, 2013.   

  88 
 Risk Factors 
 More information on risk is set forth under the heading Risk Fact
ors included in Item 1A and incorporated by reference into thi
s MD&A.  Additional information regarding risk factors can also be 
found in the Risk Management and Capital discussion, as well a
s the Regulatory Matters section included in Item 1 and incorporated by reference into the MD&A. 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Significant Estimates 
 Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accorda
nce with GAAP. The preparation 
of financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP requires us to establish accounting policies and make estimates that af
fect amounts reported in our 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 1 of 
the Notes to Consolidated Fi
nancial Statements, which is incorporated by reference
 into 
this MD&A, describes the significant accounting policies we
 use in our Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 An accounting estimate requires assumptions and judgments about uncertain matters that could have a material effect on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates are made under facts and circumstances at a point in time, and changes in those fa
cts and circumstances could produce results substantially different from 
those estimates.  The most significant accounting policies
 and 
estimates and their related application are discussed below.  
 Allowance for Credit Losses
   Our ACL of $0.7 billion at December 31, 2013, represents our es
timate of probable credit losses inhe
rent in our loan and lease 
portfolio and our unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit.
  We regularly review our ACL 
for appropriateness by performi
ng on-going evaluations of the loan
 and lease portfolio.  In doing so, we consider factors such as the differing economic risk ass
ociated with each loan category, the financial conditio
n of specific borrowers, the level of de
linquent loans, th
e value of any collate
ral and, 
where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or other documented support.  We also evaluate the impact of changes in inter
est rates and overall economic conditions on th
e ability of borrowers to meet their fina
ncial obligations when 
quantifying our expo
sure to 
credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL at each reporting date.  There is no certainty that our ACL will be 
appropriate over time to cover losses in the 
portfolio because of unanticipated advers
e changes in the eco
nomy, market conditio
ns, or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries, or mar
kets.  If the credit quality of our customer base materially d
eteriorates, the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers ch
anges materially, or if the ACL is not appropriate, our net inc
ome and 
capital could be materially adversely affected which, in turn, co
uld have a material adverse effect on our financial condition 
and 
results of operations. 
 In addition, bank regulators periodically review
 our ACL and may require us to increase
 our provision for lo
an and lease losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or
 loan charge-offs as required by these re
gulatory authorities could have a material
 adverse effect on our financial co
ndition and results of operations.  
 Goodwill Impairment  Goodwill is an intangible asset representin
g the difference between the purchase price
 of an asset and its fair market value an
d is created when a company pays a premium to acquire another co
mpany.  We test goodwill for impairment annually, as of October 1, 
using a two-step process that begins with an estimation of the fair value of each reporting unit.  Goodwill impairment exists w
hen a 
reporting unit™s carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.  Goodwill is also tested for impairment on an inter
im basis, 
using the same two-step process as the annual testing, if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that wou
ld 
more likely than not reduce the fair value of 
the reporting unit below its carrying amount.  
Significant judgment is applied when go
odwill is assessed for impairment. This ju
dgment includes developing cash flow 
projections, selecting appropriate discount 
rates, identifying relevant market compar
ables, incorporating general economic and 
market 
conditions, and selecting an appropriate control premium. The selection and weigh
ting of the various fair value techniques may 
result in a higher or lower fair value. Judgment is applied in deter
mining the weightings that are mo
st representative of fair value. 
 The first step (Step 1) of impairment testing requires comparin
g the fair value of each reportin
g unit with goodwill to its car
rying value to identify potential impairment. For our annual impairme
nt testing conducted during 2013, 
we identified four reporting u
nits with goodwill: Retail and Business Banking, Regional and Commercia
l Banking, Wealth Advisors, Gove
rnment Finance, and Home 
Lending (WGH), and Insurance.  Auto Finance and Commercial Re
al Estate was not subject to impairment testing as it had no 
goodwill associated with th
e unit.  In addition, alth
ough Insurance is included within Tr
easury/Other for business segment repo
rting, it 
was evaluated as a separate reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing because it had its own separately allocated goodwill
 resulting from prior acquisitions and met the reporting unit criteria.   
  89 
 For all four reporting units 
identified in the ab
ove paragraph, we utilized both income an
d market approaches to determine the 
fair 
value for each reporting unit. The income approach was based on discounted cash flows derived from assumptions of balance sheet
 and income statement activity.  An internal forecast was developed by considering several long-term key business drivers such a
s anticipated loan and deposit 
growth, net interest margins, and efficiency ratios.
 Long-term growth rates were estimated to assi
st in 
determining the terminal values.  The discount rates were estimated based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model, which considered 
the 
risk-free interest rate (20-year Tr
easury Bonds), market-risk premium, equity-risk premium, and a company-specific risk factor.
 The 
company-specific risk factor was used to address the uncertainty
 of growth estimates and earnings
 projections of Management. Fo
r the 
market approach, revenue, earnings and 
market capitalization multiples of comparable p
ublic companies were selected and applied
 to each reporting unit™s applicable metrics such as book and tangible book values. The results of the income and market approaches
 are 
combined to arrive at the final calculation of fair value.
  All four of the reporting units tested passed Step 1. 
 The second step (Step 2) of impairment testing is necessary only if the reporting unit does not pass Step 1.  Step 2 compares t
he implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the goodwill for the reporting unit.  The implied
 fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as goodwill th
at is recognized in a business combination. Significant judgme
nt 
and estimates are involved in estimating 
the fair value of the assets and liabilities of
 the reporting unit.  As none of the re
porting units failed Step 1, Step 2 was not applicable during
 2013 testing. 
Due to potential economic 
uncertainties, it is possible that our estimates and as
sumptions may adversely change in the future. 
If 
our market capitalization decreases, we may be re
quired to record goodwill impairment losse
s in future periods, whether in conn
ection with our next annual impairment testin
g or prior to that time, if any change
s constitute a triggering event. 
 Valuation of Financial Instruments 
 Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result 
in a higher degree of financial statement volatility.  Assets me
asured at 
fair value include mortgage loans held for sale, available
-for-sale and trading securities, 
certain securitized automobile loan
s, 
derivatives,  and certain securitization trust notes payable.  At December 31, 2013, approximately $7.6 billion of our assets a
nd $0.1 
billion of our liabilities were record
ed at fair value.  In addition to the above 
mentioned on-going fair value measurements, f
air value 
is also the unit of measure for record
ing business combinations and other no
n-recurring financial assets and liabilities.
    At the end of each quarter, we assess the valuation hierarchy for each asset or liability measured at fair value.  As necessary
, assets or liabilities may be transferred within fair value hierarchy levels due to changes in
 availability of observable market
 inputs to 
measure fair value at the measurement date.   
 Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is 
determined, using either internally developed or independent th
ird party valuation models, based on inputs that are either dire
ctly observable or derived from market data. Th
ese inputs include, but are not limited 
to, interest rate yield
 curves, option volati
lities, or option adjusted spreads. Where neither quoted market prices
 nor observable market data are available, fair value is determined 
using 
valuation models that feature one or more significant unobservabl
e inputs based on management™s expectation that market partici
pants 
would use in determining the fair value of the asset or liability. 
The determination of appropri
ate unobservable inputs require
s exercise 
of management judgment. A significant por
tion of our assets and liabilities that are repo
rted at fair value are measured based 
on 
quoted market prices and observabl
e market or independent inputs. 
 The following is a description of the si
gnificant estimates used in the valu
ation of financial assets and liabilities 
for which quoted market prices and observable market parameters are not available. 

 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed securities 
 Our Alt-A, private label CMO and pooled-trust
-preferred securities portfolios are classif
ied as Level 3 and as such use signifi
cant 
estimates to determine the fair value of 
these securities which results in greater 
subjectivity. The Alt-
A and private label CM
O securities portfolios are subjected to a mont
hly review of the projected cash flows, 
while the cash flows of our pooled-trust-p
referred 
securities portfolio are reviewed quarterl
y. These reviews are supported
 with analysis from indepe
ndent third parties, and are 
used as a 
basis for impairment analysis.  
 Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label C
MO securities are collateralized by first-lien re
sidential mortgage loans. The securit
ies valuation methodology incorporates
 values obtained from 
a third party pricing specialist using 
a discounted cash flow approach 
and a 
proprietary pricing model and includes assumptions management believes market participan
ts would use to value the securities un
der current market conditions.  The model uses in
puts such as estimated prep
ayment speeds, losses, recoveries, default rates that a
re 
implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the struc
ture or similar structures, ho
use price depreciation / apprecia
tion rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates 
that are implied by market prices for similar securities with si
milar collateral structures.  90 
 Pooled-trust-preferred securities are CDOs backed by a pool of 
debt securities issued by financial institutions. The collateral
 generally consists of trust-pref
erred securities and subordinated de
bt securities issued by banks,
 bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies. A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within t
his portfolio. We engage a third party pricing specialist with direct
 industry experience in pooled-trust-preferred securities valu
ations to provide assistance in estimating the fair value and expected cash flows for each security in this portfolio.  The PD of each is
suer and 
the market discount rate are the most signi
ficant inputs in determining fair value. 
 Management evaluates the PD assumptions 
provided by the third party pricing specialist by comparing the current PD to the assumptions used the previous quarter, actual
 defaults and deferrals in the current period, and trend data on certain fi
nancial ratios of the issuers. Huntington also evaluates the a
ssumptions 
related to discount rates.   Relying on cash flows is necessa
ry because there was a lack of observable transactions in the mark
et and many of the original sponsors or dealers for these securities are no longer able to provide a fair
 value that is compliant with
 ASC 820. 
 Derivatives used for hedging purposes
   Derivatives designated as qualified hedges are tested for hedge 
effectiveness on a quarterly basis. Assessments are made at the
 inception of the hedge and on a recurring basis to determine whet
her the derivative used in the hedging transaction has been an
d is 
expected to continue to be highly effectiv
e in offsetting changes in fair values or
 cash flows of the hedged item. A statistica
l regression analysis is performed to measure the effectiveness. 
   If, based on the assessment, a derivative is not expected to be a highly effective hedge or it has ceased to be a highly effec
tive hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued as
 of the quarter the hedge is not highly effective. As the statistical regression anal
ysis requires the use of estimates regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows which are sensitive to significant changes i
n future 
periods based on changes in market rates, we consider this a critical accounting estimate.  
 Loans held for sale
   Huntington has elected to apply the fair valu
e option to certain residential mortgage 
loans that are classified as held for sale at 
origination.  The fair value is estimated based 
on security prices for similar product types. 
 Certain consumer and commercial loans are classified as held for sale and are accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or f
air value. The determination of fair value for these consumer loan
s is based on security prices for similar product types or discou
nted expected cash flows, which takes into cons
ideration factors such as futu
re interest rates, prepayme
nt speeds, default and loss 
curves, 
and market discount rates. The determination of fair value 
for commercial loans takes into account factors such as the location
 and appraised value of the related collateral, as well as the estimated cash flows from realization of the collateral. 
 Mortgage Servicing Rights 
        Retained rights to service mortgage loans are recognized as a separate and distinct asset at the time the loans are sold
.   Mortgage 
servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) are initially recorded at fair value at 
the time the related loans are so
ld and subsequently re-measu
red at each reporting date under either the fair value or amortization method.  Any increase or decrease in fair value of MSRs account
ed for under the fair value method, as well as any amortization and/or im
pairment of MSRs recorded under the amortization method, is 
reflected in earnings in the period that the changes occur. MSRs are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value wil
l fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environ
ment. Fair value is determined based upon
 the application of an income approach
 valuation model. The valuation m
odel, maintained by an independent third party,
 incorporates assumptions in estimating future c
ash flows. These assumptions include time decay, payoffs, and changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. The reasonableness of th
ese 
pricing models is validated on a minimum of a quarterly basis by 
at least one independent external service broker valuation. Be
cause 
the fair values of MSRs are significantly impacted by the use of estimates, the use of different assumption estimates can resul
t in 
different estimated fair values of those MSRs. 
  Pension Valuation  Pension plan assets consist of mutual 
funds, corporate bonds, US gove
rnment bonds, our common st
ock, and other investment 
assets.  Investments are accounted for at cost on the trade date and are reported at fair value.  Mutual funds are valued at qu
oted Net 
Asset Value.  Our common stock is traded on a national securities 
exchange and is valued at the 
last reported sales price.   
 The discount rate and expected re
turn on plan assets used to determine the 
benefit obligation and pension expense are both 
significant assumptions.  Actual resu
lts may be materially different.  
(See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements).
    91 
 Contingent Liabilities 
 We are parties to various claims, litigation, and legal proc
eedings resulting from ordinary 
business activities relating to our
 current and/or former operations.  We estimate and provide for po
tential losses that may arise ou
t of litigation and regulatory
 proceedings to the extent that such losses 
are probable and can be reas
onably estimated. Significant 
judgment is required in ma
king 
these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be more 
or less than the current esti
mate. Our total estimated liabili
ty in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses af
ter considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in simil
ar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
 legal counsel.  Litigation 
exposure represents a key 
area of judgment and is subj
ect to uncertainty and certain factor
s outside of our control.  
 Income Taxes  
 The calculation of our provision for income taxes is complex an
d requires the use of estimates and judgments. We have two 
accruals for income taxes: (1) our income tax payable represents the estimated net amount currently due to the federal, state, 
and local 
taxing jurisdictions, net of any reserve for potential audit issues and any tax refunds, and the net receivable balance is repo
rted as a component of accrued income and other assets in our consolidated balance sheet; (2) our deferred federal and state income tax a
nd 
related valuation accounts, reported as a component of accrued 
income and other assets, represents the estimated impact of temp
orary differences between how we recognize our assets and liabilities
 under GAAP, and how such assets and liabilities are recognized 
under federal and state tax law.   
 In the ordinary course of business, we operate in various taxi
ng jurisdictions and are subject to income and non-income taxes. 
The 
effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of 
the relevant current tax laws. 
We believe the aggregate liabilities related to taxes are appropriately reflected in the consolidated financial statements. We review the appropriate tax treatment of all tran
sactions taking into consideration statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidan
ce in the context of our tax positions. In addition, we rel
y on various 
tax opinions, recent tax audits, and historical experience.  

 From time-to-time, we engage in business transactions that 
may affect our tax liabilities. Where appropriate, we have obtained 
opinions of outside experts and have assessed the relative merits 
and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of business transa
ctions taking into account statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the cont
ext of the tax position. However, changes to our es
timates of 
accrued taxes can occur due to changes in tax rates, implementation of new business strategies, resolution of issues with taxin
g authorities regarding previously taken tax 
positions, and newly enacted statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance.
 Such chan
ges 
could affect the amount of our accrued taxes and could be material to our financial position and / or results of operations. 
(See Note 17 
of the Notes to Consolidat
ed Financial Statements.)
  Deferred Tax Assets  
 At December 31, 2013, we had a net federal deferred tax asset of $97.9 million and a net state deferred tax asset of $39.7 mill
ion. 
A valuation allowance is provided when it is more-likely-than-no
t that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be reali
zed. All available evidence, both positive and negative, was considered to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, 
impairment should be recognized. Our forecast process includes 
judgmental and quantitative elements
 that may be subject to 
significant change. If our forecast of taxable income within the 
carryforward periods available u
nder applicable law is not suf
ficient to 
cover the amount of net deferred tax assets, such assets may be impaired. Based on our analysis of both positive and negative e
vidence 
and our ability to offset the net deferred tax assets against our forecasted future taxable income, there was no impairment of 
the net 
deferred tax assets at December 31, 2013, for regulatory capital purposes. 
 92 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Developments 
 Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2013 and the expected 
impact of accounting pronouncements
 recently issued but not yet required to be adopted.  To 
the extent the adoption of new 
accounting standards materially affect financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity, the impacts are discussed in t
he applicable section of this MD&A and the No
tes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
 Information required by this item is set 
forth under the heading of ﬁMarket Riskﬂ in
 Item 7 (MD&A), which is incorporated 
by reference into this item. 
 Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Information required by this item is set 
forth in the Report of Independent Register
ed Public Accounting Firm, Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Notes, and Selected Quarterly Income Stateme
nts, which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 REPO The Mand reStatemrespeavailatrainibroa
dcommpubli
ccontr
oto, ancommrelatininter
nthe ce REPO Manainclu
dtransapermiUnit
eDecemof th
ebelievThe Cinde
p    Steph   David Febru ORT OF MA
NManagement o
fepresentations 
ments have beects, they refle
cable informationg of qualifie
dd program of i
nmittee of the b
oc accounting 
fiols and financ
ind meet confid
emittee. This comng to the fina
nnal auditors, anertification of tORT OF MA
Nagement is res
pding accounti
nactions are proit the preparat
ied States. Hun
tmber 31, 2013
e Treadway C
oves that, as of 
DCompany™s int
ependent registe
rhen D. Steinou
rd S. Anderson 
uary 14, 2014
 NAGEMEN
Tf Huntington 
Bcontained in t
hen prepared in 
ct the substanc
eon. Manageme
nd personnel, ap
nternal audits. Toard of directo
rirm, Deloitte 
&ial reporting 
mentially with, thmmittee™s pur
pncial and opera
tnd the audit co
mthose reports b
yNAGEMEN
Tponsible for es
tng and other in
tperly authoriz
eion of the Con
stington™s Man
a. In making th
iommission (C
ODecember 31, 
ernal control ored public accor Œ Chairman, 
PŒ Executive 
VT  Bancshares Inc
ohe Consolidat
econformity w
ie of transactio
nnt maintains a 
propriate segr
eThe costs of t
hrs met regularl
y& Touche LLP
,matters. The indhe audit com
mpose is to desigting condition 
mmittee of the y the chief ex
eT™S ASSESS
Mtablishing and 
ternal control 
sed, (2) the ass
esolidated Finanagement assess
is assessment, 
OSO) in 
Interna2013, the Co
mver financial r
eounting firm, 
aPresident, and 
Vice President aorporated (Hu
ned Financial St
aith accounting 
ns that should 
bsystem of inte
regation of res
phe controls are 
by with Manage, to review the 
dependent regi
smittee to discusgn and maintai
nof Huntington 
board of dire
cecutive officer 
ENT OF INT
maintaining a
dsystems that, i
nets are properl
yncial Statemen
ted the effecti
vManagement 
ual ControlŠ
Inmpany™s intern
aeporting as of Das stated in the
i Chief Executiv and Interim C
h93 
ntington or th
eatements and 
oprinciples gen
ebe included ba
rnal accountin
gonsibilities, c
obalanced agai
nement, Huntin
gsco
pe of the a
ustered public a
cs appropriate 
mn disclosure c
ois properly re
pctors in connec
tand the chief 
fERNAL CO
Ndequate intern
an the opinion 
oy safeguarded, 
ts in conformi
teness of the C
oused the criteritegrated Fra
mal control over 
December 31,
ir report appea
rve Officer  hief Financial 
Oe Company) is 
other sections oerally accepte
dased on inform
eg controls, wh
ommunication 
nst the expecte
gton™s internal 
udits and to di
sccounting fir
mmatters. Also, 
Hontrols and pro
ported to its chtion with the 
pfinancial offic
eNTROL OVERal control over 
of Managemen
tand (3) transa
cty with accounompany™s inte
ria set forth by 
tmewo
rk (1992).
financial repo
r2013 has bee
nring on the ne
xOfficer responsible fo
rof this report. 
Td in the Unite
ded judgments, 
ich includes t
hof written polid benefits. Du
rauditors, and 
tscuss the eval
um and the inter
nHuntington m
acedures to ensuhief executive 
opreparation an
der. 
R FINANCI
Afinancial repo
rt, provide reas
octions are pro
pnting principle
srnal control o
vthe Committe
e  Based on tha
rting is effectivn audited by D
ext page. 
r the financial 
The Consolida
td States. In all 
mestimates, and 
he careful sele
ccies and proce
ring 2013, the 
the independe
nuation of inter
nnal auditors ha
vaintains a discl
oure that mater
iofficer, chief f
id filing of peri
oAL REPORTI
Nrting for the C
onable assura
nperly recorded 
as generally acc
ever financial re
pe of Sponsorin
gat assessment, 
Mve based on th
oeloitte & Touchinformation 
ted Financial 
material currently ction and 
edures, and a 
audit 
nt regis
tered 
nal accounting ve free access 
osure review 
ial informatio
ninancial office
rodic reports an
dNG ompany, 
nce that (1) 
and reported t
oepted in the 
porting as of 
g OrganizationManagement 
ose criteria. 
he LLP, an 
n r, d o s  REPO To thHuntColuWe hﬁComissuerespointernContfinanWe cStateeffecundeevaluproceopiniA co
princcom
pof finaccepprocetrans
as neand tand dunaustatemBecaimpr

on a 
to futthe dIn ouDeceComWe hStaterepor  
ColuFebruORT OF IN
Dhe Board of 
Dtington Banc
sumbus, Ohio 
have audited tmpanyﬂ) as o
fed by the Co
monsible for manal control ovtrol over Financial reportingconducted oures).  Those stactive internal cerstanding of iuating the desedures as we ion. 
mpany™s inte
cipal executivpany™s board nancial reportpted account
iedures that (1actions and decessary to p
ethat receipts adirectors of thuthorized acquments. 
ause of the inhoper managemtimely basis. 
ture periods 
adegree of comur opinion, th
eember 31, 201mmittee of Sp
ohave also audies), the consolrt dated Febr
uumbus, Ohio 
uary 14, 201
4DEPENDENT 
Directors and shares Incorpothe internal cof December 3
mmittee of Sp
aintaining effver financial 
rncial Reporting based on our audit in accoandards requircontrol over finternal cont
rsign and oper
aconsidered nernal control 
ove and princi
pof directors, 
mting and the 
png principles
) pertain to thdispositions ofermit prepara
tand expendituhe company; 
auisition, use, oherent limitatiment override Also, projecare subject to mpliance with e Company 
m13, based on 
tonsoring Org
aited, in accor
dlidated financuary 14, 201
44 REGISTER
EShareholders orated ontrol over fi
n1, 2013, bas
eonsoring Or
gfective internareporting, incng.  Our resp
ur audit.   
ordance with re that we plafinancial reporol over finan
cating effectivecessary in t
hover financial pal financial omanagement,preparation of. A company
he maintenan
f the assets oftion of financiures of the co
mand (3) provi
dor dispositio
nions of inter
ne of controls, 
ctions of any 
ethe risk that tthe policies omaintained, inthe criteria estanizations of dance with t
hcial statement4 expressed anED PUBLIC Aof nancial reported on criteria ganizations ofal control ov
eluded in the 
aonsibility is 
tthe standardsan and perfor
morting was macial reportingeness of interhe circumstanreporting is aofficers, or per, and other pef financial sta
t™s internal conce of records f the companyial statementsmpany are be
de reasonablen of the comp
anal control ov
ematerial missevaluation of the controls mor procedures
n all material 
rtablished in Ithe Treadwayhe standards ots as of and fon unqualified 94 
ACCOUNTIN
Gting of Huntinestablished i
nf the Treadwaer financial repaccompanyin
gto express an s of the Publi
cm the audit toaintained in alg, assessing thrnal control bces.  We belia process des
irsons performersonnel to protements for exntrol over finthat, in reas
oy; (2) provid
es in accordancing made on
le assurance reany™s assets 
ter financial restatements d
uthe effectivenmay become i
may deterio
rrespects, effe
cInternal Contry Commissio
nof the Public 
Cor the year en
dopinion on t
hG FIRM ngton Bancs
hn Internal Co
ay Commissi
oporting and fg Report of 
Mopinion on t
hc Company 
Ao obtain reasoll material re
she risk that a 
mased on the a
eve that our aigned by, or 
uming similar 
fovide reasonaxternal purp
onancial reportionable detail, e reasonable ace with generly in accorda
negarding pre
vthat could ha
veporting, incl
uue to error or 
ness of the ininadequate berate.  ctive internalrol ŠIntegra
n. Company Ac
cded Decemb
ehose financialhares IncorpontrolŠIntegron.  The Compfor its assessmManagement™
she Company™
sAccounting Ovonable assuranspects.  Our amaterial weakassessed risk, 
audit providesunder the supfunctions, andable assurancoses in according includes taccurately a
nassurance thatrally accepte
dnce with authovention or timve a material 
uding the po
sfraud may n
onternal controlecause of cha
nl control over ted Framewocounting Oveer 31, 2013 ofl statements. orated and su
brated Framewpany™s mana
gment of the effs Assessments internal conversight Boarnce about wheaudit includedkness exists, 
tand performis a reasonablepervision of, t
hd effected by 
e regarding thdance with genthose policiesnd fairly reflet transactionsd accounting porizations of 
mely detection 
effect on the ssibility of c
oot be preventel over financinges in condifinancial repork (1992) issuersight Board f the Compa
nbsidiaries (thework (1992) gement is 
ffectiveness oft of Internal ntrol over rd (United ether d obtaining a
ntesting and ng such othe
re basis for ouhe company™
sthe he reliability 
nerally 
s and ct the s are recorde
dprinciples, management of financial ollusion or ed or detectedial reporting tions, or that 
orting as of ued by 
the (United ny and our 
e f n r r s d d  REPO To thHuntColu We h(the ﬁincom2013an op 
We cStatefinanthe a
and sbelie In ouHuntoperaaccou 
We hStatein IntTreadintern  
 
 
 
ColuFebruORT OF IN
Dhe Board of 
Dtington Banc
sumbus, Ohio 
have audited tﬁCompanyﬂ) 
me, changes i3.  These finanpinion on the
sconducted oures).  Those stancial statemenmounts and 
dsignificant estve that our auur opinion, su
tington Banc
sations and theunting princi
phave also audies), the Comp
ternal Contr
odway Comm
inal control ovumbus, Ohio 
uary 14, 2014 
DEPENDENT 
Directors and shares Incorpothe accompa
nas of Decembin shareholderncial statemense financial str audits in accandards requirnts are free o
fdisclosures in 
timates made 
udits provide ch consolidatshares Incorpoeir cash flowsples generallyited, in accor
dany™s intern
aolŠIntegratedission and ourver financial 
rREGISTER
EShareholders orated nying consoli
dber 31, 2013 ars™ equity, an
nts are the re
statements bascordance withre that we plafmaterial misthe financial by manage
ma reasonable ted financial sorated and sus for each of ty accepted in dance with t
hl control ove
rd Frameworkr report datedreporting. 
ED PUBLIC Aof dated balanceand 2012, andd cash flows sponsibility o
sed on our au
dh the standardan and perfor
mstatement.  
Astatements.  
Ament, as well 
abasis for our statements preubsidiaries as the three year
the United S
the standards or financial repk (1992) issued February 1495 
ACCOUNTIN
Ge sheets of H
ud the related cfor each of thf the Compa
ndits. ds of the Publ
m the audit toAn audit inclu
dAn audit alsoas evaluating 
opinion. esent fairly, inof December 

s in the periotates of Amerof the Public 
Cporting as of 
Dd by the Co
m, 2014 expre
sG FIRM untington Ba
nconsolidated 
he three year
sny™s manage
mic Company 
Ao obtain reasodes examini
no includes assthe overall fi
nn all materia
l31, 2013 an
dd ended Dec
erica. 
Company Ac
cDecember 31
mmittee of Sp
ossed an unquancshares Incostatements ofs in the periodment.  Our resAccounting Oonable assuranng, on a test baessing the accnancial stateml respects, th
ed 2012, and t
hember 31, 20
1counting Ove, 2013, basedonsoring Or
galified opinio
nrporated and f income, co
md ended Decemsponsibility i
sOversight Boance about wheasis, evidencecounting prinment presentae financial poshe results of t13, in confor
mersight Board d on the criterganizations ofn on the Comsubsidiaries mprehensive 
mber 31, s to express ard (United ether the e supporting 
nciples used ation.  We 
sition of their mity with 
(United ria establishe
df the mpany's 
d 96 
  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated              Consolidated Balance Sheets                     December 31, 
   (dollar amounts in thousands, except number of shares)
 2013  2012  Assets  Cash and due from banks 
$  1,001,132 
$  1,262,806 
 Interest-bearing deposits in banks 
 57,043 
 70,921 
 Trading account securities 
 35,573 
 91,205 
 Loans held for sale  326,212 
 764,309 
   (includes $278,928
 and $452,949 respectively, measured at fair value)
(1) Available-for-sale and other securities
  7,308,753 
 7,566,175 
 Held-to-maturity securities 
 3,836,667 
 1,743,876 
 Loans and leases (includes $52,286 and $142,762 respectively, measured at fair value):
(2)      Commercial and industrial loans and leases
  17,594,276 
 16,970,689 
     Commercial real estate loans
  4,850,094 
 5,399,240 
     Automobile loans and leases
  6,638,713 
 4,633,820 
     Home equity loans
  8,336,318 
 8,335,342 
     Residential mortgage loans
  5,321,088 
 4,969,672 
     Other consumer loans
  380,011 
 419,662 
   Loans and leases
  43,120,500 
 40,728,425 
   Allowance for loan and lease losses
  (647,870) (769,075) Net loans and leases 
 42,472,630 
 39,959,350 
 Bank owned life insurance 
 1,647,170 
 1,596,056 
 Premises and equipment 
 634,657 
 617,257 
 Goodwill  444,268 
 444,268 
 Other intangible assets 
 93,193 
 132,157 
 Accrued income and other assets 
  1,619,046 
   1,904,805 
 Total assets $  59,476,344 
$  56,153,185 
 Liabilities and shareholders' equity  Liabilities
    Deposits in domestic offices
      Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing
 $  13,650,468 
$  12,599,636 
     Interest-bearing
  33,540,545 
 33,375,016 
   Deposits in foreign offices
  315,705 
 278,031 
 Deposits  47,506,718 
 46,252,683 
 Short-term borrowings 
 552,143 
 589,814 
 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 1,808,293 
 1,008,959 
 Other long-term debt  
 1,349,119 
 158,784 
 Subordinated notes 
 1,100,860 
 1,197,091 
 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
  1,059,888 
   1,155,643 
 Total liabilities  53,377,021 
 50,362,974 
 Shareholders' equity  Preferred stock - authorized 6,617,808 shares; 
      Series A, 8.50% fixed rate, non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred
        stock, par value of $0.01, and liquidation value per share of $1,000 
  362,507 
   362,507 
   Series B, floating rate, non-voting, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, par value 
          of $0.01, and liquidation value per share of $1,000 
   23,785 
   23,785 
 Common stock   8,322 
   8,441 
 Capital surplus 
  7,398,515 
   7,475,149 
 Less treasury shares, at cost 
  (9,643)   (10,921) Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
  (214,009)   (150,817) Retained (deficit) earnings 
  (1,470,154)
   (1,917,933)
 Total shareholders' equity
  6,099,323 
 5,790,211 
 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
 $  59,476,344 
$  56,153,185 
 Common shares authorized (par value of $0.01)
  1,500,000,000 
 1,500,000,000 
 Common shares issued 
 832,217,098 
 844,105,349 
 Common shares outstanding 
 830,963,427 
 842,812,709 
 Treasury shares outstanding 
 1,253,671 
 1,292,640 
 Preferred shares issued 
 1,967,071 
 1,967,071 
 Preferred shares outstanding 
 398,007 
 398,007 
(1)
Amounts represent loans for which Huntington has elected the fair value option. See Note 19.
    (2)
Amounts represent certain assets of a consolidated VIE for which Huntington has elected the fair value option.  See Note 21.
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
           97 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated            Consolidated Statements of Income
               Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 2013 2012  2011  Interest and fee income: 
          Loans and leases
 $  1,629,939
$  1,675,295 
$   1,727,784 
Available-for-sale and other securities 
       Taxable 
   148,557  184,340 
   207,984 
  Tax-exempt  
   12,678  8,999 
   9,785 
Held-to-maturity securities 
   50,214  24,088 
   11,213 
Other    19,249  37,541 
   13,460 
Total interest income 
   1,860,637
   1,930,263 
   1,970,226 
Interest expense 
            Deposits    116,241  162,167 
   260,052 
  Short-term borrowings 
   700  2,048 
   3,500 
  Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
   1,077  819    824   Subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
   38,011  54,705 
   76,680 
Total interest expense 
   156,029   219,739 
   341,056 
Net interest income 
   1,704,608
   1,710,524 
   1,629,170 
Provision for credit losses 
   90,045  147,388 
   174,059 
Net interest income after provision for credit losses 
   1,614,563
   1,563,136 
   1,455,111 
Service charges on deposit accounts  
   271,802  262,179 
   243,507 
Mortgage banking income 
   126,855  191,092 
   83,408 
Trust services 
   123,007  121,897 
   119,382 
Electronic banking 
   92,591  82,290 
   111,697 
Insurance income 
   69,264  71,319 
   69,470 
Brokerage income 
   69,189  72,226 
   80,367 
Bank owned life insurance income 
   56,419  56,042 
   62,336 
Capital markets fees 
   45,220  48,160 
   36,540 
Gain on sale of loans 
   18,171  58,182 
   31,944 
Net gains on sales of securities 
   2,220  6,388 
   3,682 
Impairment losses recognized in earnings on available-for-sale securities (a) 
   (1,802)  (1,619)   (7,363)Other income 
   125,059  129,701 
   145,653 
Total noninterest income  
   997,995   1,097,857 
   980,623 
Personnel costs 
   1,001,637
  988,193 
   892,534 
Outside data processing and other services 
   199,547  190,255 
   189,174 
Net occupancy 
   125,344  111,160 
   109,129 
Equipment    106,793  102,947 
   92,544 
Marketing 
   51,185  64,263 
   65,560 
Deposit and other insurance expense 
   50,161  68,330 
   77,692 
Amortization of intangibles 
   41,364  46,549 
   53,318 
Professional services 
   40,587  65,758 
   68,616 
Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
   ---  (798)   (9,697)Other expense 
   141,385  199,219 
   189,630 
Total noninterest expense 
   1,758,003
   1,835,876 
   1,728,500 
Income before income taxes 
   854,555   825,117 
   707,234 
Provision for income taxes 
   215,814  184,095 
   164,621 
Net income 
   638,741   641,022 
   542,613 
Dividends on preferred shares 
   31,869   31,989 
   30,813 
Net income applicable to common shares 
$   606,872$   609,033 
$   511,800 
Average common shares - basic 
   834,205  857,962 
   863,691 
Average common shares - diluted 
   843,974  863,402 
   867,624 
Per common share: 
          Net income - basic 
$  0.73$ 0.71 
$  0.59 
Net income - diluted 
   0.72  0.71 
   0.59 
Cash dividends declared 
   0.19  0.16 
   0.10 
(a) The following OTTI losses are included in securities losses for the periods presented: 
          Total OTTI losses  
$   (1,870)$  (1,886)$   (8,791)Noncredit-related portion of loss recognized in OCI 
   68  267    1,428 
Net impairment credit losses recognized in earnings 
$   (1,802)$  (1,619)$   (7,363)See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
            98 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
                                       Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013    2012     2011            Net income
 $  638,741 
 $  641,022 
 $  542,613 
 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
               Unrealized gains on available-for-sale and other securities: 
                Non-credit-related impairment recoveries (losses)
                   on debt securities not expected to be sold 
  153    12,490 
   7,499 
     Unrealized net gains (losses) 
on available-for-sale and other
                   securities arising during the 
period, net of reclassification                   for net realized gains 
  (77,593)   55,305 
   64,921 
   Total unrealized gains on
 available-for-sale and other securities
   (77,440)   67,795 
   72,420 
   Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedging derivatives
   (65,928)   6,186 
   5,188 
   Change in accumulated unrealized losses for pension and
                 other post-retirement obligations
   80,176 
   (51,035)   (53,875) Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
   (63,192)   22,946 
   23,733 
 Comprehensive income
 $  575,549 
 $  663,968 
 $  566,346 
       See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
            99 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                                  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                                                                            Preferred Stock 
               Accumulated 
              Series A 
  Series B  
               Other 
Retained 
    (all amounts in thousands,
       Floating Rate 
 Common Stock 
 Capital 
 Treasury Stock 
Comprehensive 
Earnings 
    except for per share amounts)
   Shares 
  Amount 
  Shares
  Amount 
 Shares 
  Amount
 Surplus 
 Shares 
 Amount 
  Loss 
  (Deficit) 
  Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2013
                                              Balance, beginning of year 
  363 
$ 362,507 
  35 $ 23,785
 844,105
$ 8,441 
$ 7,475,149 
 (1,292)
$(10,921)
$  (150,817)
$ (1,917,933)
$ 5,790,211
Net income 
                                      638,741 
  638,741
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
                                  (63,192)
      (63,192)
Repurchases of common stock 
                 (16,708)
  (167) (124,828)
                (124,995)
Cash dividends declared: 
                                              Common ($0.19 per share) 
                                      (158,194)
  (158,194)
  Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share) 
                                    (30,813)
  (30,813)
  Preferred Series B ($33.14 per share) 
                                      (1,055)
  (1,055)
Recognition of the fair value of 
                                              share-based compensation 
                        37,007 
                37,007
Other share-based compensation activity 
                 4,820
  48  12,812 
            (873)  11,987
Other 
                        (1,625)
 (39) 1,278 
      (27)  (374)Balance, end of year  
  363 
$ 362,507 
  35 $ 23,785
 832,217
$ 8,322 
$7,398,515 
 (1,331)
$ (9,643)
$ (214,009)
$ (1,470,154)
$ 6,099,323
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                           100 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                                  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                                                                            Preferred Stock 
               Accumulated 
              Series A 
  Series B  
               Other 
Retained 
    (all amounts in thousands,
       Floating Rate 
 Common Stock 
 Capital 
 Treasury Stock 
Comprehensive 
Earnings 
    except for per share amounts)
   Shares 
  Amount 
  Shares
  Amount 
 Shares 
 Amount
 Surplus 
 Shares 
 Amount 
  Loss 
  (Deficit) 
  Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2012
                                              Balance, beginning of year 
  363 
$ 362,507 
  35 $ 23,785 
 865,585 
$ 8,656 
$ 7,596,809
 (1,178)
$(10,255)
$  (173,763)
$ (2,389,639)
$ 5,418,100
Net income 
                                      641,022 
  641,022
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
                                  22,946 
      22,946
Repurchase of common stock 
                 (23,328)
 (233)  (148,648)
                 (148,881)
Cash dividends declared: 
                                              Common ($0.16 per share) 
                                      (136,887)
  (136,887)
  Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share) 
                                      (30,813)
  (30,813)
  Preferred Series B ($33.14 per share) 
                                      (1,176)
  (1,176)
Recognition of the fair value of 
                                              share-based compensation 
                        27,873
                27,873
Other share-based compensation activity 
                 1,848 
 18   (795)            (348)  (1,125)
Other 
                        (90) (114) (666)      (92)  (848)Balance, end of year  
  363 
$ 362,507 
  35 $ 23,785 
 844,105 
$8,441 
$ 7,475,149
 (1,292)
$ (10,921)
$ (150,817)
$ (1,917,933)
$ 5,790,211
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                           101 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                                  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                                                                             Preferred Stock 
                 Accumulated 
              Series A 
 Series B 
                 Other 
Retained 
    (all amounts in thousands, 
       Floating Rate 
 Common Stock 
 Capital 
 Treasury Stock 
Comprehensive 
Earnings 
    except for per share amounts)
   Shares 
  Amount 
  Shares 
  Amount
 Shares 
 Amount 
 Surplus 
 Shares
  Amount 
  Loss 
  (Deficit) 
  Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
                                               Balance, beginning of year 
  363 
$ 362,507 
   ---$  --- 864,195 
$ 8,642 
$ 7,630,093
 (876)$ (8,771)
$ (197,496)
$ (2,814,433)
$ 4,980,542
Net income 
                                       542,613 
  542,613
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
                                   23,733 
      23,733
Issuance of preferred stock 
          35   23,785 
        (1,759)
                 22,026
Repurchase of warrants convertible to 
                                               common stock 
                        (49,100)
                 (49,100)
Cash dividends declared: 
                                               Common ($0.10 per share) 
                                       (86,448)
  (86,448)
  Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share) 
                                       (30,813)
  (30,813)
Recognition of the fair value of 
                                               share-based compensation 
                        19,666
                 19,666
Other share-based compensation activity 
               1,390 
 14   (1,605)
             (343)  (1,934)
Other 
                        (486) (302)  (1,484)
      (215)  (2,185)
Balance, end of year  
  363 
$ 362,507 
  35 $ 23,785 
 865,585 
$8,656 
$ 7,596,809
 (1,178)
$ (10,255)
$ (173,763)
$ (2,389,639)
$ 5,418,100
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                        102 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                        Year Ended December 31, 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013
    2012
   2011
  Operating activities                Net income
 $ 638,741   $ 641,022 $  542,613 $  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
                    Provision for credit losses 
   90,045 
     147,388    174,059      Depreciation and amortization 
   281,545      274,572    282,105      Share-based compensation expense 
   37,007 
     27,873
    19,666 
     Change in deferred income taxes 
   97,440 
     153,123    159,193      Originations of loans held for sale 
   (2,845,275)
     (3,814,572)
    (2,414,172)
     Principal payments on and proceeds from loans held for sale 
   3,017,430      3,731,465    2,820,797      Gain on sale of loans held for sale 
   (44,787)
     (60,251)
    (15,870)
     Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
   --- 
     (798)
    (9,697)
     Bargain purchase gain 
   --- 
     (11,217)
    --- 
     Net gains on sales of securities 
   (2,220)
     (6,388)
    (3,682)
     Impairment losses recognized in earnings on available-for-sale securities 
   1,802 
     1,619
    7,363 
     Net Change in: 
                         Trading account securities 
   55,632 
     (45,306)
    139,505           Accrued income and other assets 
   21,623 
     455,411    (62,230)
          Accrued expense and other liabilities 
   (335,738)
     (491,811)
    (44,863)
 Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
  1,013,245      1,002,130   1,594,787  Investing activities
                Decrease (increase) in interest-bearing deposits in banks 
  146,584      70,980
    50,093 
   Net cash received in acquisitions 
  --- 
     40,258
    --- 
   Proceeds from: 
                   Maturities and calls of available-for-sale and other securities 
  1,414,114      1,776,594    2,489,049      Maturities of held-to-maturity securities 
  278,136      113,576    31,163 
     Sales of available-for-sale and other securities 
  410,106      957,930    3,205,884    Purchases of available-for-sale and other securities 
  (1,416,795)
     (2,384,824)
    (4,283,866)
   Purchases of held-to-maturity securities 
  (2,081,373)
     (941,119)
    (204,082)
   Net proceeds from sales of loans 
  459,006      3,092,643    1,640,237    Net loan and lease activity, excluding sales 
  (3,386,753)
     (3,287,000)
    (4,148,424)
   Proceeds from sale of operating lease assets 
  10,227 
     30,322
    62,744 
   Purchases of premises and equipment 
  (102,208)
     (129,641)
    (143,763)
   Proceeds from sales of other real estate 
  40,448 
     56,762
    55,817 
   Purchases of loans and leases 
  (16,170)
     (484,157)
    (59,885)
   Other, net 
  4,345 
     4,698
    327 
 Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
  (4,240,333)
     (1,082,978)
   (1,304,706)
 Financing activities
                Increase (decrease) in deposits 
  1,258,038      2,262,213    1,420,944    Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 
  55,279 
     (939,979)
    (580,335)
   Maturity/redemption of subordinated notes 
  (50,000)
     (305,010)
    (5,000)
   Proceeds from Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
  4,400,000      2,515,000    550,000    Maturity/redemption of Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
  (3,600,721)
     (1,914,281)
    (359,732)
   Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
  1,250,000      ---
    --- 
   Maturity/redemption of long-term debt 
  (52,086)
     (1,070,804)
    (902,652)
   Repurchase of Warrant to the Treasury 
  --- 
     ---
    (49,100)
   Dividends paid on preferred stock 
  (31,869)
     (31,719)
    (30,813)
   Dividends paid on common stock 
  (150,608)
     (137,616)
    (61,591)
   Repurchase of common stock 
  (124,995)
     (148,881)
    --- 
   Cost to issue preferred stock 
  --- 
     ---
    (1,759)
   Other, net 
  12,376 
     (1,237)
    (1,963)
 Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
  2,965,414      227,686   (22,001)
 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  (261,674)
     146,838   268,080  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
  1,262,806      1,115,968   847,888  Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
 $ 1,001,132   $  1,262,806 $ 1,115,968 $  103 
 Supplemental disclosures:
                 Interest paid 
$ 155,832   $ 231,897
 $357,212 
   Income taxes paid (refunded) 
  109,432      6,389
    80,065 
$  Non-cash activities: 
                 Loans transferred to available-for-sale securities 
  600,435      ---
   --- 
    Loans transferred to portfolio from held-for-sale 
  307,303      ---
   --- 
    Transfer of securities to held
-to-maturity from available-for-sale
   292,164      278,748   469,070      Loans transferred to held-for-sale from portfolio
   53,360 
     306,261   1,268,132      Dividends accrued, paid in subsequent quarter
   47,898 
     47,312
   40,771 
     Trust Preferred Securities exchange 
  --- 
     ---
   35,500 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
              104 
 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
        
Nature of Operations Š 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporate
d (Huntington or the Company) is 
a multi-state diversified regional 
bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Co
lumbus, Ohio. Through its subsidiaries, 
including its bank subsidiary, The Huntington
 National Bank (the Bank), Huntington is
 engaged in providing full-service commerc
ial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking se
rvices, automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment 
management, trust services, brokerage services, customized in
surance programs, and other financial products and services. 
Huntington™s banking offices are 
located in Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana,
 West Virginia, and Kentucky.  Select financi
al services and other activities are also conducted in various othe
r states.  International bankin
g services are available through the 
headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio and a limited purpose o
ffice located in the Cayman Islands and another in Hong Kong. 
        
Basis of Presentation Š 
The Consolidated Financial Statement
s include the accounts of Huntington and its majority-owned 
subsidiaries and are presented in
 accordance with GAAP. All inte
rcompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in 
consolidation. Companies in
 which Huntington holds mo
re than a 50% voting equ
ity interest, or 
a controlling fina
ncial interest, or are 
a VIE in which Huntington has the power 
to direct the activities of an 
entity that most significantly
 impact the entity™s econo
mic 
performance and  has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE which could potentially be si
gnificant 
to the VIE are consolid
ated. VIEs are legal entities with 
insubstantial equity, whose equity investors lack the ability to make
 decisions 
about the entity™s activities, or whose equity investors do not have the right to receive the residual returns of the entity if
 they occur. 
VIEs in which Huntington does not hold 
the power to direct the activities of the en
tity that most significantly impact the enti
ty™s economic performance or  does not have an obligation  to absorb 
losses or the right to
 receive benefits fro
m the VIE  which cou
ld 
potentially be significant to the VIE are not
 consolidated. For consolid
ated entities where Huntington
 holds less than a 100% i
nterest, 
Huntington recognizes noncontrolling interest (included in shareholders™ equity) for the equity held by others and noncontrolli
ng 
profit or loss (included in noninterest 
expense) for the portion of the entity™s ear
nings attributable to other™s interests. In
vestments in 
companies that are not consolidated are accounted for using the equity method when Huntington ha
s the ability to exert signific
ant 
influence. Those investments in nonmarketable securities fo
r which Huntington does not have 
the ability to exert significant in
fluence 
are generally accounted for using the cost method.  Investments in private investment partnerships that are accounted for under
 the 
equity method or the cost method are included in accrued income and other assets and Huntington™s proportional interest in the 
equity 
investments™ earnings are included in other noninterest income. Investment interests accounted for under the cost and equity me
thods 
are periodically evaluated for impairment.  

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
 requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that 
significantly affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Huntington utilizes processes that involve the 
use of significant estimates and the judgments of 
Management in determining the amount of its
 allowance for credit losses, income taxe
s deferred tax assets, and contingent liabilities, as well as fair va
lue measurements of investment securities, derivatives, good
will, pension assets and liabilities, mortgage servicing rights, and loan
s held for sale. As with any estimate, actual results could 
differ from 
those estimates.  
 Certain prior period amounts have be
en reclassified to conform to the current year™s presentation. 
 
       
Resale and Repurchase Agreements Š 
Securities purchased under agreements to rese
ll and securities sold under agreements to 
repurchase are treated as collateralized finan
cing transactions and are recorded at the 
amounts at which th
e securities were ac
quired or 
sold plus accrued interest. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third party is continually monit
ored and 
additional collateral is obtained or reques
ted to be returned to Huntington 
in accordance with
 the agreement.  Securities Š 
Securities purchased with the intention 
of recognizing short-term prof
its or which are actively bought and sold are 
classified as trading account securities and reported at fair value. The unrealized ga
ins or losses on trading account securiti
es are 
recorded in other noninterest income, except for gains and losses on trading account securities used to hedge the fair value of
 MSRs, 
which are included in mortgage 
banking income.  Debt securities purchased in wh
ich Huntington has the 
positive intent and ability to hold to its maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securi
ties. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost.
  All other 
debt and equity securities are classified
 as available-for-sale and other securities.
 Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale and 
other securities are reported as a separate component of accumulated OCI in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Sharehold
ers™ 
Equity. Credit-related declines in the valu
e of debt and marketable equity securities
 that are considered other-than-temporary 
are 
recorded in noninterest income. 
   105 
 Huntington evaluates its investment secur
ities portfolio on a quarterly basis for indicators of OTTI.  Huntington assesses whet
her 
OTTI has occurred when the fair value of a debt security is less than the amortized cost basis at the balance sheet date.  Mana
gement 
reviews the amount of unrealized
 loss, the length of time the security has been
 in an unrealized loss position, the credit rati
ng history, market trends of similar security classes, time remaining to matu
rity, and the source of both interest and principal payments t
o identify 
securities which could potentially be impaired.  OTTI is considered
 to have occurred (1) if Huntington intends to sell the secu
rity; (2) if it is more likely than not Huntington
 will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis;
 or (3) the 
present value of expected cash flows are not sufficient to recove
r all contractually required principal and interest payments. 
 For 
securities that Huntington does no
t expect to sell, or it is not more likely than 
not to be required to sell, the OTTI is separ
ated into 
credit and noncredit components.  A discounted cash flow analysis, which includes evaluating the timing of the expected cash fl
ows, 
is completed for all debt securities subject to credit impairment.  The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to th
e difference between the debt security™s cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the sec
urity™s effective yield.  The credit-related OTTI, represented by the expected loss in principal, is recognized in noninterest income. 
 The 
remaining difference between the security™s 
fair value and the present value of future expected cash flows is due to factors th
at are not 
credit-related and, therefore, are recognized in OCI.  Huntington believes that it w
ill fully collect the carrying value of sec
urities on which noncredit-related OTTI has been reco
gnized in OCI.  Noncredit-related OTTI results from other factors, including increase
d liquidity spreads and extension of the secur
ity. For securities which Huntington does e
xpect to sell, or if it is more likely t
han not 
Huntington will be required to sell the s
ecurity before recovery of its amortized cost 
basis, all OTTI is recognized in earning
s. Presentation of OTTI is made in the Consolidated Statements of
 Income on a gross basis with a reduction for the amount of OTTI 
recognized in OCI. Once an OTTI is recorded, when future cash flows can be reasonably estimated, future cash flows are re-alloc
ated 
between interest and principal cash flows to
 provide for a level-yield on the security.  
 Securities transactions are recognized on the trade date (the da
te the order to buy or sell is 
executed). The carrying value pl
us any 
related OCI balance of sold securities is used
 to compute realized gains and losses. In
terest and dividends on securities, incl
uding 
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the effective interest method over the period to maturity, are includ
ed in 
interest income. 

 Nonmarketable equity securities include stock acquired for regul
atory purposes, such as Federa
l Home Loan Bank stock and 
Federal Reserve Bank stock. These securities are accounted for at
 cost, evaluated for impairment, and inclu
ded in available-for
-sale and other securities. 
 
       
Loans and Leases Š 
Loans and direct financing leases for which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable 
future, or until maturity or payoff, are classi
fied in the Consolidated B
alance Sheets as loans and leases. Except for loans wh
ich are 
subject to fair value requirements, loans and leases are carried
 at the principal amount outstanding, net of unamortized deferr
ed loan 
origination fees and costs and net of unear
ned income. Direct financing leases are reported at the aggregate of lease payments 
receivable and estimated residual values, net of unearned and deferred income. Interest income is accrued as earned using the i
nterest method based on unpaid principal balances. Huntington defers the fees it receives from the origination of loans and leases, as 
well as the direct costs of those activities.  Huntington also acquires lo
ans at a premium and at a discount to their contractual value
s.  Huntington amortizes loan discounts, premiums, and net loan ori
gination fees and costs on a le
vel-yield basis over the estimate
d lives of the related loans.   
 Troubled debt restructurings are loans for which the original contr
actual terms have been modified to provide a concession to a
 borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Lo
an modifications are considered TDRs wh
en the concessions provided are not avai
lable 
to the borrower through either normal channels or other sources
. However, not all loan modifi
cations are TDRs. Modifications resulting in troubled debt restructurings ma
y include changes to one or more terms of
 the loan, including 
but not limited to, a
 change 
in interest rate, an extension 
of the amortization period, a reduction in payment amount, and partial forg
iveness or deferment 
of principal or accrued interest.   

 Residual values on leased equipment are evaluated quarterly for 
impairment. Impairment of the residual values of direct financi
ng 
leases determined to be other than temporary is recognized by writin
g the leases down to fair value with a charge to other noni
nterest 
expense. Residual value losses arise if the expected fair valu
e at the end of the lease term is le
ss than the residual value re
corded at the 
lease origination, net of estimated amounts reim
bursable by the lessee.  Future declines
 in the expected residual value of the 
leased equipment would result in expected losses of the leased equipment. 

 For leased equipment, the residual component of a direct financing lease represents the estimated fair value of the leased 
equipment at the end of the lease term.  Huntington uses industry data, historical experience, and independent appraisals to es
tablish 
these residual value estimates.  Additional information regardin
g product life cycle, product upgrades, as well as insight into
 competing products are obtained through relationships with industry contacts and are factored into residual value estimates whe
re applicable.   

   106 
        Loans Held for Sale Š 
Loans and loan commitments 
in which Huntington does not have 
the intent and ability 
to hold for the 
foreseeable future are classified as loans held for sale. Loans held for sale (excluding loans originated or acquired with the 
intent to 
sell, which are carried at fair value) are carried at the lower of
 cost or fair value less cost to
 sell.  The fair value option
 is generally 
elected for mortgage loans held for sale to facilitate hedging of th
e loans. Fair value is deter
mined based on collateral value
 and prevailing market prices for loans with similar characteristics.   
Nonmortgage loans held for sale 
are measured on an aggregate
 asset basis.       

       
Allowance for Credit Losses Š 
Huntington maintains two reserves, both of wh
ich reflect Management™s judgment regarding the 
appropriate level necessary to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio: the ALLL and the AULC.  Combined,
 these 
reserves comprise the total ACL.  The de
termination of the ACL requires significant
 estimates, including the timing and amounts
 of expected future cash flows on impaired 
loans and leases, considerati
on of current economic conditions, and historical loss expe
rience 
pertaining to pools of homogeneo
us loans and leases, all of whic
h may be susceptible to change. 
 The appropriateness of the ACL is based on Management™s current judgments about the 
credit quality of the loan portfolio.  Thes
e judgments consider on-going evaluations of the loan and lease portfolio, including such factors as the differing economic risks
 associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific borrowers, the level of delinquent loans, the value of 
any 
collateral and, where applicable, the existenc
e of any guarantees or other documented support. Further, Management evaluates th
e impact of changes in interest rates and 
overall economic conditions on the ability 
of borrowers to meet their financial obligat
ions when quantifying our exposure to credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL at each reporting date. In addition to g
eneral 
economic conditions and the other factors de
scribed above, additional factors also cons
idered include: the impact of increasing
 or decreasing residential real estate values; the diversification of CRE 
loans; the development of new or expanded Commercial busi
ness 
segments such as healthcare, ABL, and en
ergy, and the overall condition of the manufac
turing industry.  Also, the ACL assessmen
t includes the on-going assessment of credit quality metrics, and a comparison of ce
rtain ACL benchmarks to current performance. 
 Management™s determinations regarding the appropriateness of 
the ACL are reviewed and approved by the Company™s board of 
directors. 
 The ALLL consists of two components: (1) the transaction re
serve, which includes a loan level allocation, specific reserves 
related to loans considered to be impaired
, and loans involved 
in troubled debt restructurings, and (2) the general reserve.   
The 
transaction reserve component includes both (1) an estimate of 
loss based on pools of commercial and consumer loans and leases 
with 
similar characteristics and (2) an estimate of loss based on an impa
irment review of each impaired C&I and CRE loan greater tha
n $1.0 million. For the C&I and CRE portfolios, the estimate of loss 
based on pools of loans and leases with similar characterist
ics is made by applying a PD factor an
d a LGD factor to each individual 
loan based on a regularly updated loan grade, using a standard
ized loan grading system.  The PD factor and an LGD factor are determined for each loan grade using statistical models based on hist
orical 
performance data. The PD factor considers on
-going reviews of the financial performan
ce of the specific borrower, including cas
h flow, debt-service coverage ratio, earnings power, debt level, and equity 
position, in conjunction with an assessment of the bo
rrower™s 
industry and future prospects. 
 The LGD factor considers analysis of the type
 of collateral and the relative LTV ratio.  These 
reserve factors are developed based on credit migration models that track
 historical movements of loans between loan ratings over time 
and a combination of long-term average loss experience of our own port
folio and external in
dustry data using a 24-month emergence per
iod.   
 In the case of more homogeneous portfolios, 
such as automobile loans, home equity lo
ans, and residential mortgage loans, the 
determination of the transaction reserve also incorporates PD and LG
D factors.  The estimate of loss is based on pools of loans
 and 
leases with similar characteristics.  The PD factor considers current credit scores unless the account is delinquent, in which 
case a 
higher PD factor is used.  The credit score provides a basis fo
r understanding the borrower™s pa
st and current payment performa
nce, and this information is used to estimate
 expected losses over the 12-month emergence period.  The performance of first-lien loa
ns ahead of our junior-lien loans is available to use as part of our updated score process.  The LGD factor considers analysis of 
the type of collateral and the relative LTV ratio.  Credit scores, models, anal
yses, and other factors used to determine both the PD and
 LGD 
factors are updated frequently to capture the recent behavioral characteristics of the subject portfolios, as well as any chang
es in loss 
mitigation or credit origination strategies, 
and adjustments to the reserve factors ar
e made as required.  Models utilized in t
he ALLL 
estimation process are subject to the Company™s model validation policies.   
  The general reserve consists of the economic reserve and risk
-profile reserve components.  The economic reserve component 
considers the impact of ch
anging market and economic conditions
 on portfolio performance.  The 
risk-profile component considers
 items unique to our structure, policies, processes, and portfolio composition, as well as qualitativ
e measurements and assessme
nts of the loan portfolios inclu
ding, but not limited to, management quality, concen
trations, portfolio com
position, industry comparis
ons, and 
internal review functions.  

 During the year, we made enhancements to our commercial risk rati
ng system used for assessing cred
it risk when determining our 
ACL.  The enhancements provide greater granularity in overall co
rporate risk ratings and incorporate a broader set of financial
 metrics 
in the determination of the PD and LGD.  The PD and LGD factors
 combine to represent the tran
saction reserve component for a 
given credit exposure. 

 107 
 The estimate for the AULC is determined using the same procedures and methodologies as used for the ALLL.  The loss factors 
used in the AULC are the same as the lo
ss factors used in the ALLL while also considering a historical utilization of unused 
commitments.  The AULC is recorded in accrued expenses 
and other liabilities in the Cons
olidated Balance Sheets.  
        Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans Š 
Loans are considered past due when the cont
ractual amounts due with 
respect to principal 
and interest are not received within 30 days of the contractual due date.  

 Any loan in any portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies described below when collection of principal
 or interest is in doubt. When a borrower with de
bt is discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptc
y and not reaffirmed 
by the borrower, the
 loan is 
determined to be collateral dependent and placed on nonaccrual status, unless there is a co-borrower.   
 All classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios (except for purchased credit-impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status at 9
0-days past due.  First-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loa
ns are 
placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due or when the related first-lien loan has been identified as nona
ccrual.  
Automobile and other consumer loans are generally charged-off when
 the loan is 120-days past due.  Residential mortgage loans a
re placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of residential mortgages guaranteed by government agencies
 which continue to accrue interest at the rate guaranteed by the government agency.  We are reimbursed from the government agenc
y for reasonable expenses incurred in servicing loans.  The FHA 
reimburses us for 66% of expenses, and the VA reimburses us at a 
maximum percentage of guarantee which is established for each individual loan.  We have not experienced either material losses 
in excess of guarantee caps or significant delays or re
jected claims from the r
elated government entity.  For all classes within all loan portfolios, when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, any accrued interest income is reversed with 
current year accruals charged to interest income, 
and prior year amounts charged-off as a credit loss.
  For all classes within all loan portfolios, cash receipts received on NALs are applied against principal until the loan or leas
e has been collected in full, after which time any additional cash receipts are recognized as interest income. However, for secured n
on-
reaffirmed debt in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, payments are applied to principal and interest when the borrower has demonstrated a 
capacity to continue payment of the debt a
nd collection of the debt is reas
onably assured.  For unsecured non-re
affirmed debt i
n a Chapter 7 bankruptcy wher
e the carrying value has been fully charged-off, payments are recorded as loan recoveries. 
  Regarding all classes within the C&I and CR
E portfolios, the determinati
on of a borrower's ability to make the required princip
al 
and interest payments is based on an examination of the bo
rrower's current financial statements, industry, management capabilit
ies, and other qualitative measures. For all classes 
within the consumer loan portfolio, 
the determination of a borrower's ability t
o make the 
required principal and interest payments is 
based on multiple factors, including number of
 days past due and, in some instances
, an evaluation of the borrower's financial condition. When, in Manage
ment's judgment, the borrower's ability to make required princ
ipal 
and interest payments resumes and collectability is no longer in doubt, the loan is returned to accrual status. For these loans
 that have 
been returned to accrual status, cash receipts are applied according to the contractual terms of the loan.
  
       Charge-off of Uncollectible Loans Š 
Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-o
ff prior to the policies described below if a 
loss confirming event has occurred.  Loss confirming events include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy (unsecured), continued 

delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an asset valuation indicating a collateral deficiency and that asset is the sole source
 of repayment. Additionally, discharged, collateral dependent non-reaffi
rmed debt in Chapter 7 bank
ruptcy filings will result in a 
charge-
off to estimated collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.   
  
C&I and CRE loans are either charged-off or written down to ne
t realizable value at 90-days past due.  Automobile loans and 
other consumer loans are charged-off at 120-days past due.
   First-lien and junior-lien home eq
uity loans are ch
arged-off to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling co
sts, at 150-days past due and 
120-days past due, respectively.  Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estima
ted fair value of the collateral at 150-days past due. 
 
       Impaired Loans Š 
For all classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios, all lo
ans with an outstanding 
balance of $1.0 million or 
greater are evaluated on a quarterly basis for impairment.  Ge
nerally, consumer loans within any class are not individually eva
luated 
on a regular basis for impairment.  All TDRs, regardless of the outstanding balance amount, are also considered to be impaired.
  Loans 
acquired with evidence of deterioration in credit quality sin
ce origination for which it is probable at acquisition that all co
ntractually 
required payments will not be collected 
are also considered to be impaired. 
 Once a loan has been identified for an assessment of impairment, the loan is considered impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not b
e collected.  This determination requires sign
ificant judgment and use of estimates, and the eventual outcome may differ signific
antly 
from those estimates.  
   108 
 When a loan in any class has been determined to be impaired, 
the amount of the impairment is measured using the present value 
of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, the observable mar
ket price of 
the loan, or the fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, if
 the loan is collateral de
pendent.  When the p
resent value of 
expected future cash flows is used, the effective interest rate is
 the original contractual interest rate of the loan adjusted 
for any 
premium or discount.  When the contractual 
interest rate is variable, 
the effective interest rate of 
the loan changes over time
.  A specific reserve is established as a component of the ALLL when a loan has been determined to be impaired.  Subsequent to the i
nitial measurement of impairment, if there is a significant change to the impaired loan's expected future cash flows, or if actual cas
h flows are significantly different from the cash flows previously estimated, Huntington recalculates the impairment and appropriately 
adjusts 
the specific reserve. Similarly, if Huntington measures impairment
 based on the observable mark
et price of an impaired loan or 
the 
fair value of the collateral of an impaired collateral dependen
t loan, Huntington will adjust the specific reserve. 
 When a loan within any class is impaired, the accrual of interest income is discontinued unless the receipt of principal and in
terest is no longer in doubt.  Interest income on TDRs is accrued when all principal and interest is expected to be collected under th
e post-modification terms.  Cash receipts received on nonaccruing impaired loans within any class are generally applied entirely again
st principal until the loan has been
 collected in full, after which 
time any additional cash receipts
 are recognized as interest i
ncome.  
Cash receipts received on accruing impaired loans within any class are applied in the same manner as accruing loans that are no
t considered impaired.
         Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans
 Š Purchased loans with evidence of deteri
oration in credit quality since origination for 
which it is probable at acquisition that we 
will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are considered to be 
credit 
impaired. Purchased credit-impaired loans ar
e initially recorded at fair va
lue, which is estimated by
 discounting the cash flow
s expected to be collected at the acquisition date. Because the estimate of expected cash flows reflects an estimate of future cr
edit losses 
expected to be incurred over the life of th
e loans, an allowance for credit losses is 
not recorded at the acquisition date. The
 excess of 
cash flows expected at acquisition 
over the estimated fair value, referred to as
 the accretable yield, is
 recognized in interes
t income 
over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, on a leve
l-yield basis. The difference between the contractually require
d payments 
at acquisition and the cash flows expected to
 be collected at acquisition is referred to
 as the nonaccretable difference. A sub
sequent 
decrease in the estimate of cash flows expected to be received on purchased credit-impaired loans generally results in the reco
gnition 
of an allowance for credit losses. Subsequent increases in cash flows result in reversal of any nonaccretable difference (or al
lowance 
for loan and lease losses to the ex
tent any has been recorded) with
 a positive impact on interest 
income subseque
ntly recognized.  The 
measurement of cash flows involves assumptions and judgments for interest rates, prepayments, default rates, loss severity, and
 collateral values.  All of these factors are 
inherently subjective and sign
ificant changes in the cash flow estimates over the 
life of the 
loan can result. 

        Transfers of Financial Assets and Securitizations
 Š Transfers of financial assets in which we have surrendered control over 
the transferred assets are accounted for as sales. In assessing whethe
r control has been surrendered,
 we consider whether the t
ransferee 
would be a consolidated affiliate, the existence and extent of any continuing involvement in the tr
ansferred financial assets, 
and the 
impact of all arrangements or agreements made contemporaneously with, or in contemplation of, the transfer, even if they were n
ot 
entered into at the time of tran
sfer. Control is generally considered to have been surrendered when (i) the transferred assets 
have been 
legally isolated from us or any of our consolidated affiliates, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, (ii) the transferee (
or, if the 
transferee is an entity whose sole purpose is to engage in s
ecuritization or asset-backed financing that is constrained from pl
edging or 
exchanging the assets it receives, each third-party holder of its beneficial interests) has the right to pledge or exchange the
 assets (or beneficial interests) it received without any constraints that provide more than a trivial benefit to us, and (iii) neither we 
nor our 
consolidated affiliates and agents have (a) both the right an
d obligation under any agreement to 
repurchase or redeem the trans
ferred 
assets before their maturity, (b) the un
ilateral ability to cause the holder to return
 specific financial assets that also prov
ides us with a 
more-than-trivial benefit (other than through a cleanup call) or (c) 
an agreement that permits the transferee to require us to 
repurchase 
the transferred assets at a price so favorable that it is
 probable that it will require us to repurchase them.  
 If the sale criteria are met, the transferred financial assets are 
removed from our balance sheet and a gain or loss on sale is
 recognized. If the sale criteria are not met, the transfer is recorded as a secured borrowing in which the assets remain on our
 balance 
sheet and the proceeds from 
the transaction are recognized as a liability. For th
e majority of financial asset transfers, it is
 clear whether 
or not we have surrendered control. For other transfers, such as 
in connection with complex transactions or where we have conti
nuing 
involvement, we generally ob
tain a legal opinion as to 
whether the transfer results in a true sale by law.  
 We have historically securitized certain automobile receivables. Gains and losses on the loans and leases sold and servicing ri
ghts 
associated with loan and lease sales are determined when the related
 loans or leases are sold to either a securitization trust 
or third party.  For loan or lease sales with servicing retained, a servicing asset is
 recorded at fair value 
for the right to service t
he loans sold. 
 Derivative Financial Instruments Š 
A variety of derivative financial instruments, pr
incipally interest rate swaps, caps, floors, 
and collars, are used in asset and liab
ility management activities to protect against 
the risk of adverse price or interest rat
e movements. 
These instruments provide flexibility in adju
sting Huntington™s sensitivity to changes 
in interest rates with
out exposure to loss of principal and higher funding requirements.  
109 
 Huntington also uses derivatives, principal
ly loan sale commitments, in hedging its 
mortgage loan interest rate lock commitment
s and its mortgage loans held for sale.  Mo
rtgage loan sale commitments 
and the related interest rate
 lock commitments are carrie
d at fair value on the Consolidated Bala
nce Sheets with changes in fair value reflected 
in mortgage banking income.  Huntington also
 uses 
certain derivative financial instruments to 
offset changes in value of its MSRs.  Thes
e derivatives consist primarily of forwar
d interest rate agreements and forward mortgage contracts.  The derivative in
struments used are not designated
 as hedges.  Accordingly, su
ch derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes in
 fair value reflected in mortgage banking income.   
 Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in accrued 
income and other assets or accrued expens
es and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value.  On the date a der
ivative contract is entered into, we designate it as either: 
 Ł a qualifying hedge of the fair value of 
a recognized asset or liability 
or of an unrecognized firm 
commitment (fair value    
       
   hedge); 
 Ł a qualifying hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset liability or forecas
ted     transaction (cash flow hedge); or 
 Ł a trading instrument or a non-qualifying (economic) hedge. 
 Changes in the fair value of a derivative th
at has been designated and qualifies as a 
fair value hedge, along with the changes 
in the 
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable 
to the hedged risk, are recorded
 in current period earnings. C
hanges in the 
fair value of a derivative that has been designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, to the extent effective as a hedge, are
 recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, and reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedg
ed item affects earnings. Ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship is reflected in current period earnings. Changes in the fair
 value of derivatives held for trading purposes or which do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are reported in current period earnings.  
 
       For those derivatives to which hedge accounting is ap
plied, Huntington formally documents the hedging relationship and t
he risk 
management objective and str
ategy for undertaking the he
dge. This documentation identifies th
e hedging instrument, the hedged i
tem 
or transaction, the nature of the risk 
being hedged, and, unless the hedge meets all of the criteria to assume there is no inef
fectiveness, 
the method that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument and how ineffectiveness will be measured. Th
e methods utilized to assess retrospective hedge effectiveness, as well as the frequency of testing, vary based on the type of it
em being 
hedged and the designated hedge period. For specifically designated 
fair value hedges of certain fixed-rate debt, Huntington ut
ilizes the short-cut method when
 certain criteria are met. For other fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt, including certificates of d
eposit,   Huntington utilizes the regression method to evaluate hedge eff
ectiveness on a quarterly basis. For fair value hedges of portfo
lio loans, the regression method is used to evaluate effectiveness on a daily
 basis. For cash flow hedges, the regression method is applie
d on a 
quarterly basis.  
 Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when: 

 Ł the derivative is no longer effective or
 expected to be effective in offsetting change
s in the fair value or cash flows of a 
hedged 
item (including firm commitments or forecasted transactions); 
 Ł the derivative expires or is sold, terminated
, or exercised; 
 Ł it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur; 
 Ł the hedged firm commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or 
 Ł the designation of the derivative as
 a hedging instrument is removed. 
 When hedge accounting is 
discontinued because it is determined
 that the derivative no longer 
qualifies as an effective fair val
ue 
or cash flow hedge, the derivative will continue to 
be carried on the balance sheet at fair value.  
 In the case of a discontinued fair value hedge of a recognized a
sset or liability, as long as th
e hedged item continues to exis
t on 
the balance sheet, the hedged item 
will no longer be adjusted for 
changes in fair value. The ba
sis adjustment that had previous
ly been 
recorded to the hedged item during the period from the hedge desi
gnation date to the hedge discontinuation date is recognized a
s an 
adjustment to the yield of 
the hedged item over the remaining life of the hedged item. 
   110 
 In the case of a discontinued cash flow hedge of a recognized ass
et or liability, as long as the hedged item continues to exist
 on the balance sheet, the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the hedging 
derivative will no longer be recorded to o
ther 
comprehensive income. The 
balance applicable to the discontinue
d hedging relationship will be rec
ognized in earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item as an adjustment to yield. 
If the discontinued hedged item was a forecasted transaction that 
is not 
expected to occur, any amounts recorded on the balance sheet re
lated to the hedged item, incl
uding any amounts recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to current period earnings. 
 In the case of either a fair value hedge or 
a cash flow hedge, if the previously hedg
ed item is sold or extinguished, the basis
 adjustment to the underlying asset or liab
ility or any remaining unamortized other co
mprehensive income balance will be reclass
ified 
to current period earnings. 

 In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, 
the derivative will be carried at fair value on the consolid
ated balance sheets, with changes in its fair valu
e recognized in current peri
od earnings unless re-desig
nated as a qualifying hedge
.  Like other financial instruments, derivatives
 contain an element of credit risk, which is the possibility that Huntington will 
incur a loss because the counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations. Notional values of interest rate swaps and other off-b
alance 
sheet financial instruments significantly exceed
 the credit risk associated with these instruments and represent contractual ba
lances on 
which calculations of amounts to be exchanged are based. Credit ex
posure is limited to the sum of the aggregate fair value of p
ositions that have become favorable to Huntington, including any accrued interest receivable due from counterparties. Potential credit l
osses 
are mitigated through careful evaluation of counterparty credit standing, selection of counterpar
ties from a limited group of h
igh 
quality institutions, collateral agreements, and other contract provisions.  Huntington 
considers the value of collateral held 
and collateral provided in determining the 
net carrying value of derivatives. 
 Huntington offsets the fair value amounts re
cognized for derivative instruments and th
e fair value for the right to reclaim cas
h collateral or the obligation to return
 cash collateral arising from derivative instrum
ent(s) recognized at fair value executed 
with the 
same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. 
 Repossessed Collateral Š 
Repossessed collateral, also referred to as other real 
estate owned (OREO), is comprised principally 
of commercial and residential real estate properties obtained in par
tial or total satisfaction of loan obligations, and is carr
ied at the 
lower of cost or fair value. Collateral obtained in satisfaction of
 a loan is record
ed at the estimated 
fair value less anticip
ated selling costs based upon the property™s appraised 
value at the date of foreclosure, with any 
difference between the fair value of the p
roperty 
and the carrying value of the loan recorded as a charge-off. Subseq
uent declines in value are re
ported as adjustments to the ca
rrying 
amount and are recorded in noninterest expense. Gains or losses resulting from the sale of collateral are recognized in noninte
rest expense at the date of sale. 
 Collateral Š We pledge assets as collateral as required for various tran
sactions including security repurchase agreements, public 
deposits, loan notes, derivative financial instruments, short-ter
m borrowings and long-term borrowings. Assets that have been p
ledged 
as collateral, including those that can be sold or repledged by the secured party, continue to be reported on our Consolidated 
Balance Sheets.  We also accept collateral, primarily as part of various transactions including derivative and security resale agreements. Colla
teral accepted by us, including collateral that we can sell or repledge, is excluded from our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 The market value of collateral we have accepted or pledged is regularly monitored and additional collateral is obtained or 
provided as necessary to ensure appropriate 
collateral coverage in these transactions. 
          
Premises and Equipment Š
 Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. 
Depreciation is computed principally by the 
straight-line method over the estimated us
eful lives of the related assets. Buildin
gs and 
building improvements are depreciated over an average of 30 to 40 years and 10 to 30 years, respectively. Land improvements and
 furniture and fixtures are depreciated over an average of 5 to 
20 years, while equipment is depreciated over a range of 3 to 10
 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the asset™s useful life or the lease term, including any renewal period
s for which renewal is reasonably assured. Maintenance and repairs are 
charged to expense as incurred, while improvements that extend
 the useful life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life. Premises and equipment is evaluated for
 impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicat
e that the carrying amount of th
e asset may not be recoverable.
  Mortgage Servicing Rights Š
 Huntington recognizes the rights 
to service mortgage loans as sepa
rate assets, which are included 
in accrued income and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets when purchased, or when servicing is contractually separa
ted from the underlying mortgage loans by sale or secur
itization of the loans with se
rvicing rights retained.   
   111 
 For loan sales with servicing r
etained, a servicing asset is recorded at fair value for the right to se
rvice the loans sold. To determine the fair value of a MSR, Huntin
gton uses an option adjusted spread cash 
flow analysis incorporating market implied 
forward interest rates to estimate the future direction of mortgage
 and market interest rates.  The forward rates utilized are 
derived 
from the current yield curve for U.S. dollar interest rate swaps an
d are consistent with pricing of capital markets instruments
.  The 
current and projected mortgage interest rate influences the prepayment rate and, therefore, the timing and magnitude of the cas
h flows associated with the MSR.  Expected mortgage loan prepayment 
assumptions are derived from a third party model.  Management 
believes these prepayment assumptions are consistent with assump
tions used by other market participants valuing similar MSRs. 
Servicing revenues on mortgage loans are included in mortgage banking income. 
 At the time of initial capitalization, MSRs may be grouped into 
servicing classes based on the av
ailability of market inputs us
ed in determining fair value and the method used
 for managing the risks of the servicing assets.  MSR assets are recorded using the f
air value method or the amortization method.  Th
e election of the fair value or amortization method is made at the time each servic
ing 
class is established.   All newly created MSRs since 2009 were re
corded using the amortization method.  Any change in the fair 
value 
of MSRs carried under the fair value method, as well as amorti
zation and impairment of MSRs under the amortization method, duri
ng the period is recorded in mortgage banking income, which is refl
ected in the Consolidated Statem
ents of Income. Huntington hedg
es 
the value of certain MSRs using derivative in
struments and trading securities. Changes in
 fair value of these derivatives and t
rading 
account securities are reported as a component of mortgage banking income. 
         
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Š Under the acquisition method of accounting,
 the net assets of entities acquired by 
Huntington are recorded at their estimated
 fair value at the date of acquisition. Th
e excess cost of the acquisition over the f
air value of 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Other intangible assets are amortized either on an accelerated or straight-line ba
sis over 
their estimated useful lives.  Goodwill is evaluated
 for impairment on an annual basis at October 1
st of each year or whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Other intangible assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that th
e carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. 
  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
 Š We recognize the funded status of the postretirement benefit plans on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Net po
stretirement benefit cost charged to current ea
rnings related to these plans is based on va
rious actuarial assumptions regarding expected future experience.  
 Certain employees are participants in vari
ous defined contribution and other non-qua
lified supplemental retirement plans. Our 
contributions to these plans are charged to current earnings.  

 In addition, we maintain a 401(k) plan covering substantially all 
employees. Employer contributions to the plan, which are 
charged to current earnings, are 
based on employee contributions. 
          
Share-Based Compensation
 Š We use the fair value based method of accounting for awards of HBAN stock granted to 
employees under various stock op
tion and restricted share plans.
 Stock compensation costs are 
recognized prospectively for all 
new 
awards granted under these plans. Compensation expense relating to
 share options is calculated using a methodology that is base
d on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Schol
es option pricing model and is charged to expense over the requisite service perio
d (e.g. 
vesting period).   Compensation expense relati
ng to restricted stock awards is based upon the fair value of the awards on the d
ate of grant and is charged to earnings over the requisite 
service period (e.g., vesting period) of the award.
  Stock Repurchases Š 
Acquisitions of Huntington stock are recorded at cost. The re-issuance of shares is recorded at weighted-
average cost. 
 
         
Income Taxes Š 
Income taxes are accounted 
for under the asset and liability method. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are recognized for the fu
ture book and tax consequences attributable 
to temporary differences between the financial
 statement carrying amounts of existing a
ssets and liabilities and their 
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabiliti
es are determined using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recove
red or 
settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change
 in tax rates is recognized 
in income at the time of enac
tment of 
such change in tax rates. Any interest or penalties due for paym
ent of income taxes are included in the provision for income ta
xes. To 
the extent that we do not 
consider it more likely than not that a deferred 
tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance i
s recorded. All positive and negative ev
idence is reviewed when 
determining how much of a valuation allo
wance is recognized on a quarterly 
basis. In determining the requirements fo
r a valuation allowance, sources of possibl
e taxable income are evaluated including fu
ture 
reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future ta
xable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and 
carryforwards, taxable income in appropriat
e carryback years, and tax-planning strate
gies. Huntington applies a more likely tha
n not 
recognition threshold for all tax uncertainties.  
 Bank Owned Life Insurance Š 
Huntington™s bank owned life insurance policies are recorded at their cash surrender value. 
Huntington recognizes tax-exempt income from the periodic increases in the cash surrender value of these policies and from deat
h benefits.  A portion of the cash surrender va
lue is supported by holdings in separate 
accounts.  Book valu
e protection for the 
separate 
accounts is provided by the insurance carriers and a highly rated major bank.
  112 
 Fair Value Measurements Š 
The Company records or discloses 
certain of its assets and liabilities at fair value.  Fair value is 
defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the princi
pal or most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability 
in an orderly transaction between market 
participants on the measurement date.  
Fair 
value measurements are classified within one of three levels in 
a valuation hierarchy based upon the transparency of inputs to 
the 
valuation of an asset or liability as of the measuremen
t date.  The three levels are defined as follows: 
 Level 1 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
 Level 2 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices
 for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs 
that are observable for the asset or liab
ility, either directly or indirectly, for su
bstantially the full term of the financial
 instrument. 
 Level 3 Œ inputs to the valuation methodol
ogy are unobservable and significan
t to the fair value measurement. 
 A financial instrument™s categorization within th
e valuation hierarchy is based upon the lo
west level of input that is signific
ant to the fair value measurement. 
 Segment Results  Š  
Accounting policies for the business segments are the 
same as those used in the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to activities specifically attributable to each business segment. However, the 
preparation of business segment results re
quires Management to establish methodolog
ies to allocate funding co
sts and benefits, 
expenses, and other financial elements to each business segmen
t. Changes are made in these methodologies as appropriate.  
 Statement of Cash Flows Š 
Cash and cash equivalents are defined as ca
sh and due from banks which includes amounts on 
deposit with the Federal Reserve and federal funds so
ld and securities purchased under resale agreements. 
 Transactions with Related Parties Š 
 In the normal course of business, we may enter into transactions with various related 
parties. These transactions occur at prevailing market rates and terms
 and include funding arrangem
ents, transfers of financial
 assets, administrative and operational support
, and other miscellaneous services. 
 2.  ACCOUNTING 
STANDARDS UPDATE   ASU 2011-04 Š Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and 
Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.  
The ASU amends Topic 820 to add both
 additional clarifications to existing 
fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and changes to existing principles and disclosure guidance.  Clarifications 
were 
made to the relevancy of the highest and best use valuation concep
t, measurement of an instrument classified in an entity™s 
shareholders™ equity and disclosure of quantitative information ab
out the unobservable inputs for 
level 3 fair value measuremen
ts.  Changes to existing principles and disclosures included measureme
nt of financial instruments ma
naged within a portfolio, the 
application of premiums and discounts in fair value measurement,
 and additional disclosures related to fair value measurements.
 The 
updated guidance was effective for our quarterly and annual financial statements for 2012 (See Note 19).  The amendments did no
t have a material impact on Huntington™s
 Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ASU 2011-05 Š Other Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Presentation of Comprehensive Income.  
The ASU amends Topic 
220 to require an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of othe
r comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement 
of comprehensive income or in
 two separate but consecutive statements.  An entity is also required to present on the 
face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for ite
ms that are 
reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the 
components of other comprehensive income are presented.  The ame
ndments do not change items that must be reported in other 
comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive inco
me must be reclassified to net income, only the format for 
presentation.  Other than the deferral of 
the requirements related to reclassifications, the updated guidance was effective for
 our 
quarterly and annual financial statements for 2012.  Also see ASU 2013-02.   

 
ASU 2011-10 Š Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360): Derecognition of In-Substance Real Estate.   
The ASU amends 
Topic 360 to clarify that when a reporting entity ceases to have a controlling financial interest (as described in ASC 810 

ﬁConsolidationﬂ) in a subsidiary that is in-substance real estate as
 a result of default on the su
bsidiary™s nonrecourse debt, 
the 
reporting entity should apply 
the guidance in Subtopic 360-20 to determine whether it should derecognize the in-substance real 
estate. The amendments were effective for our financial statements beginning 
in the third quarter 
of 2012.  The amen
dments did not have
 a material impact on Huntington™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   113 
 ASU 2011-11 Š Balance Sheet (Top
ic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.   
The ASU amends Topic 210 by 
requiring additional improved information to
 be disclosed regarding financial instrume
nts and derivative instruments that are o
ffset in 
accordance with the conditions under ASC 210-20-45 or ASC 810-10-45 or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or 
similar agreement.  The amendments were effective for annual an
d interim reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 201
3. The disclosures required by the amendments should be applied 
retrospectively for all compara
tive periods presented.  The 
amendments did not have a materi
al impact on Huntington™s Cons
olidated Financial Statements. 
 
ASU 2013-01Š Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Cl
arifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
.   The 
ASU amends Update 2011-11 to clarify that the scope applies to deriva
tives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and 
securities borrowing and lending transactions that are either 
offset in accordance with Secti
on 210-20-45 or Se
ction 815-10-45 or 
subject to master netting or similar arrangements.  Other types 
of financial assets and liabilities subject to master netting o
r similar 
arrangements are not subject to the disclosure
 requirements in Update 2011-11.   The amendments were effective for fiscal years
 beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and in
terim periods within those annual periods. 
  The amendments did not have a materia
l impact on Huntington™s Conso
lidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2013-02Š Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of
 Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive Income.
   The ASU requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other 
comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net
 income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the resp
ective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is requi
red under U.S. GAAP to be recl
assified to net income in it
s entirety in the same reporting period.  The amendments were effective pr
ospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2
012.   
The amendments did not have a material impact on 
Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2013-11Š Income Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an
 Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss 
Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or 
a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists.
   The ASU requires that an unrecognized tax benefit, or 
a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit,
 be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a
 net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit ca
rryforward.  However, if a net operating loss carryforward, 
a similar 
tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the ap
plicable jurisdiction to settle any 
additional income taxes that woul
d result from the disallowance of a tax position 
or the tax law of the 
applicable jurisdiction does not 
require the entity to use, and 
the entity does not intend to use, the deferred 
tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax
 benefit 
should be presented in the financial stateme
nts as a liability and should not be combin
ed with deferred tax assets.  The amendm
ents were effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those 
years, beginning after December 15, 2013.  The amendments are
 not expected to have a material impact on Hun
tington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2014-01Š Investments (Topic 323): Accounting 
for Investments in Affordable Housing Projects.
    
The ASU revises the necessary criteria that need to be met in order for an entity to account for investments in affordable hous
ing 
projects net of the provision for income
 taxes.  It also changes the method of 
recognition from an effective amortization appro
ach to a 
proportional amortization approach.  Additional 
disclosures were also set forth in this update. The amendments are effective fo
r annual periods, and interim reporting periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2014.  The amendments a
re required to be applied retrospectively to 
all periods presented.  Early adoption is pe
rmitted.  Management is currently evaluat
ing the 
impact of the guidance on Huntington
™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ASU 2014-04Š Receivables (Topic 310): Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans 
upon Foreclosure.
   The ASU clarifies that an in substance repossession or foreclosure occurs upon either the creditor obtaining legal 
title to the residential real estate property 
or the borrower conveying all interest in the residential real estate property to
 the creditor to 
satisfy that loan through completion of a deed in lieu of
 foreclosure or through a similar legal agreement. The amendments are 
effective for annual periods, and interim reporting periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2014.  Th
e amendments may be adopted using either a modified retrospective transition method or a prospective transition method. Early 
adoption is permitted.  Management does not believe the amendmen
ts will have a material impact 
on Huntington™s Consolidated 
Financial Statements.  
 3.  LOANS AND LEASES AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
  Loans and leases for which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future, or until maturity or payof
f, are 
classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as loans and leases.  Except for loans which are accounted for at fair value, loa
ns and 
leases are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of una
mortized deferred loan origination fees and costs and net of 
unearned 
income.  At December 31, 2013 and 2012, 
the aggregate amount of these net unamortized deferred loan origination fees and net 
unearned income was $192.9 million 
and $174.5 million, respectively.   
   114 
 Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition 
 The table below summarizes the Company™s primary portfolios.  Fo
r ACL purposes, these portfolio
s are further disaggregated 
into classes which are also summarized in the table below. 
 Portfolio
 Class Commercial and industrial Owner occupied 
  Purchased credit-impaired 
  Other commercial and industrial 
Commercial real estate Retail properties 
  Multi family   Office   Industrial and warehouse 
  Purchased credit-impaired 
  Other commercial real estate 
Automobile 
NA (1) 
Home equity 
Secured by first-lien 
  Secured by junior-lien 
Residential mortgage 
Residential mortgage 
  Purchased credit-impaired 
Other consumer 
Other consumer 
  Purchased credit-impaired 
(1)  Not applicable.  The autom
obile loan portfolio is not furt
her segregated into classes. 
 Effective December 31, 2013 approximately $600.4 million of dir
ect purchase municipal instrument
s were reclassified from C&I 
loans to available-for-sale securities.  Direct Financing Leases 
 Huntington™s loan and lease portfolio includes lease financing receivables consisting of direct financing leases on equipment, 
which are included in C&I loans.  Lease financing receivables at December 31, 2012 also included a minimal amount of  automobil
e leases, which were included in Consumer loans.  Net investme
nts in lease financing receivables by category at December 31, 2013
 and 2012 were as follows: 
       At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
     2013 
  2012  
Commercial and industrial:        Lease payments receivable 
$ 1,426,928 $ 1,477,296    Estimated residual value of leased assets 
     409,184   332,369 Gross investment in commercial lease financing receivables 
     1,836,112   1,809,665 Net deferred origination costs 
     3,105 
  2,805 
Unearned income 
     (165,052)
  (142,904)
Total net investment in commercial lease financing receivables 
  $  1,674,165 $ 1,669,566 Consumer: 
         Total net investment in consumer lease financing receivables 
  $  --- 
$ 615 
 The future lease rental payments due from customers on direct 
financing leases at December 31, 2013, totaled $1.4 billion and 
were as follows: $0.6 billion in 2014, $0.3 billion in 2015, $0.2 billion in 2016, $0.1 billion in 2017, $0.1 billion in 2018, 
and $0.1 thereafter. 
   115 
 Fidelity Bank acquisition 
 On March 30, 2012, Huntington acquired the loans of Fidelity
 Bank located in Dearborn, Michigan from the FDIC. Under the 
agreement, loans were transferred to Huntington and recorded at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance, A
SC 
805.  The fair values for the loans were estimated using discounted cash flow analyses using in
terest rates currently being off
ered for 
loans with similar terms (Level 3), and reflected an estimate of probable losses and the credit risk associated with the loans.
  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 
 The fair values for purchased credit-impair
ed loans were estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, including interest rate
s currently being offered for loans 
with similar terms (Level 3) and prepayment assumptions.  This value was reduced by an estima
te of probable losses and the credit ri
sk associated with
 the loans.  The following table presents a rollforward of the accretable yield for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
          (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
  2012 
 Balance at January 1, 
$  23,251 
 $ --- 
Impact of acquisition on March 30, 2012 
   --- 
  27,586 
Adjustments resulting from cha
nges in purchase price allocation 
   --- 
  3,625 
Accretion    (15,931)
  (7,960)
Reclassification from nonaccretable difference
     20,675 
  --- 
Balance at December 31, 
 $  27,995 
 $ 23,251 
 The allowance for loan losses recorded on the purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was  $2.4 
million and none, respectively. The 
following table reflects the ending and unpaid
 balances of all contractually required payme
nts and carrying amounts of the acquired loans at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012: 
    December 31, 2013
  December 31, 2012
(in thousands)
 Ending Balance  Unpaid 
Balance   Ending Balance  Unpaid 
Balance Commercial and industrial $ 35,526 
 $ 50,798 
$  54,472 
 $ 80,294 
Commercial real estate   82,073 
  154,869    126,923   226,093 Residential mortgage 
  2,498 
  3,681 
   2,243 
  4,104 
Other consumer 
  129 
  219 
   140 
  245 
Total $ 120,226  $ 209,567 $  183,778  $ 310,736  Loan Purchases and Sales 
The following table summarizes significant portfolio loan purchase and sale activity for the years ended December 31, 2013, and
 2012.  The table below excludes mortgage loans originated for sale.  
     Commercial 
Commercial 
  Home 
Residential  Other 
    and Industrial
 Real Estate Automobile
Equity Mortgage 
 Consumer
Total (dollar amounts in thousands)
                          Portfolio loans purchased during the:
                Year ended December 31, 2013 
$  109,723 $  --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
$  --- 
 $ 109,723   Year ended December 31, 2012 
 568,467  378,122  --- 
 13,025 
 62,324 
 85   1,022,023 Portfolio loans sold or
 transferred to loans held for sale during the:
                Year ended December 31, 2013 
 225,930  4,767 
  --- 
  --- 
 205,334    --- 
  436,031   Year ended December 31, 2012 
 238,121  74,703 
  2,783,748  --- 
  389,603    --- 
 3,486,175 In 2012, $2.3 billion automobile loans were 
securitized with the resulting residual so
ld. In 2013, Huntingt
on did not securitiz
e any automobile loans. Th
e securitizations were treated as a sale. 
 
  116 
 NALs and Past Due Loans 
 The following table presents NALs by loan class for th
e years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (1): 
      December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013  
  2012 
 Commercial and industrial:          Owner occupied 
$ 38,321
$ 53,009 
  Other commercial and industrial 
   18,294
  37,696 
Total commercial and industrial 
$ 56,615
$ 90,705 
Commercial real estate:          Retail properties 
$ 27,328
$ 31,791 
  Multi family    9,289
  19,765 
  Office    18,995
  30,341 
  Industrial and warehouse 
   6,310
  6,841 
  Other commercial real estate 
   11,495
  38,390 
Total commercial real estate 
$ 73,417
$ 127,128 Automobile 
$ 6,303
$ 7,823 
Home equity: 
         Secured by first-lien 
$ 36,288
$ 27,091 
  Secured by junior-lien 
   29,901
  32,434 
Total home equity 
$ 66,189
$ 59,525 
Residential mortgage 
$ 119,532$ 122,452 Other consumer 
$ ---
$ --- 
Total nonaccrual loans 
$ 322,056$ 407,633 (1)
 December 31, 2013 and 2012, amounts included $75.5 million and $60.1 million related to Chapter 7 bankruptcy
loans. 
The amount of interest that would have been recorded under 
the original terms for total NAL 
loans was $23.4 million, $40.4 
million, and $38.4 million for 2013, 2012, an
d  2011, respectively. The total amount of 
interest recorded to interest income fo
r these 
loans was $5.0 million, $4.8 million, and $5.1 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 
 The following table presents an 
aging analysis of loans and leases for the years 
ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (1):   
 December 31, 2013
                           90 or more 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Past Due     Total Loans  days past due
    30-59 days
 60-89 days 
90 or more days
Total  Current 
and Leases 
 and accruing  Commercial and industrial:                               Owner occupied 
$  5,935 
$  1,879 
$ 25,658 
$ 33,472 
 $ 4,314,400 $  4,347,872  $ ---
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   241 
   433 
  14,562 
  15,236 
   20,290 
   35,526 
   14,562
(2)  
  Other commercial and 
industrial    10,342 
   3,075 
  11,210 
  24,627 
   13,186,251 
   13,210,878 
   ---
  Total commercial and industrial
 $  16,518 
$  5,387 
$ 51,430 
$ 73,335 
 $ 17,520,941 
$  17,594,276 
 $ 14,562
  Commercial real estate:                               Retail properties 
$  19,372 
$  1,228 
$ 5,252 
$ 25,852 
 $ 1,237,717 $  1,263,569  $ ---
    Multi family    2,425 
   943 
  6,726 
  10,094 
   1,015,497    1,025,591    ---
    Office    1,635 
   545 
  12,700 
  14,880 
   927,413    942,293    ---
    Industrial and warehouse 
   465 
   3,714 
  4,395 
  8,574 
   464,319    472,893    ---
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   1,311 
   --- 
  39,142 
  40,453 
   41,620 
   82,073 
   39,142
(2)  
  Other commercial real estate 
 5,922 
   1,134 
  7,192 
  14,248 
   1,049,427    1,063,675    ---
  Total commercial real estate
 $  31,130 
$  7,564 
$ 75,407 
$ 114,101 $ 4,735,993 $  4,850,094  $ 39,142
  117 
 Automobile
 $  45,174 
$  8,863 
$ 5,140 
$ 59,177 
 $ 6,579,536 $  6,638,713  $ 5,055
  Home equity:
                               Secured by first-lien 
$  20,551 
$  8,746 
$ 28,472 
$ 57,769 
 $ 4,784,375 $  4,842,144  $ 6,338
    Secured by junior-lien 
   28,965 
   13,071 
  31,392 
  73,428 
   3,420,746    3,494,174    7,645
  Total home equity
 $  49,516 
$  21,817 
$ 59,864 
$ 131,197  $ 8,205,121 $  8,336,318  $ 13,983
  Residential mortgage
                               Residential mortgage 
$  101,584 $  41,784 
$ 158,956 $ 302,324  $ 5,016,266 $  5,318,590  $ 90,115
(3)  
  Purchased credit-impaired 
   194 
   --- 
  339 
  533 
   1,965 
   2,498 
   339(2)  
Total residential mortgage
 $  101,778 $  41,784 
$ 159,295 $ 302,857  $ 5,018,231 $  5,321,088  $ 90,454
  Other consumer
                               Other consumer 
$  6,465 
$  1,276 
$ 998 
$ 8,739 
 $ 371,143 $  379,882  $ 998    Purchased credit-impaired 
   69    --- 
  --- 
  69    60    129 
   ---
(2)  
Total other consumer
 $  6,534 
$  1,276 
$ 998 
$ 8,808 
 $ 371,203 $  380,011  $ 998  Total loans and leases $  250,650 $  86,691 
$ 352,134 $ 689,475  $ 42,431,025 
$  43,120,500 
 $ 164,194                                  December 31, 2012 
                           90 or more 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Past Due     Total Loans  days past due
    30-59 days 
60-89 days 
90 or more 
days 
Total  Current 
and Leases 
 and accruing  Commercial and industrial:                               Owner occupied 
$  11,409 
$  6,302 
$ 31,997 
$ 49,708 
 $ 4,236,211 $  4,285,919  $ ---
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   986 
   3,533 
  26,648 
  31,167 
   23,305 
   54,472 
   26,648
(2)  
  Other commercial and 
industrial    20,273 
   4,211 
  14,786 
  39,270 
   12,591,028 
   12,630,298 
   ---
  Total commercial and industrial 
$  32,668 
$  14,046 
$ 73,431 
$ 120,145  $ 16,850,544 
$  16,970,689 
 $ 26,648
  Commercial real estate:                               Retail properties 
$  3,459 
$  4,203 
$ 9,677 
$ 17,339 
 $ 1,413,520 $  1,430,859  $ ---
    Multi family    7,961 
   1,314 
  12,062 
  21,337 
   963,063    984,400    ---
    Office    1,054 
   2,415 
  23,335 
  26,804 
   909,310    936,114    ---
    Industrial and warehouse 
   6,597 
   118 
  5,433 
  12,148 
   584,754    596,902    ---
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   556 
   1,751 
  56,660 
  58,967 
   67,956 
   126,923    56,660
(2)  
  Other commercial real estate 
 2,725 
   2,192 
  25,463 
  30,380 
   1,293,662    1,324,042    ---
  Total commercial real estate 
$  22,352 
$  11,993 
$ 132,630 $ 166,975 $ 5,232,265 $  5,399,240  $ 56,660
  Automobile 
$  36,267 
$  7,803 
$ 4,438 
$ 48,508 
 $ 4,585,312 $  4,633,820  $ 4,418
  Home equity: 
                              Secured by first-lien 
$  26,288 
$  9,992 
$ 28,322 
$ 64,602 
 $ 4,315,985 $  4,380,587  $ 5,202
    Secured by junior-lien 
   34,365 
   16,553 
  35,150 
  86,068 
   3,868,687    3,954,755    12,998
  Total home equity 
   60,653 
$  26,545 
$ 63,472 
$ 150,670  $ 8,184,672 $  8,335,342  $ 18,200
  Residential mortgage 
                              Residential mortgage 
   118,582 $  44,747 
$ 164,035 $ 327,364  $ 4,640,065 $  4,967,429  $ 92,925
(4)  
  Purchased credit-impaired 
   58    --- 
  609 
  667 
   1,576 
   2,243 
   609(2)  
Total residential mortgage 
$  118,640 $  44,747 
$ 164,644 $ 328,031  $ 4,641,641 $  4,969,672  $ 93,534
  Other consumer 
                              Other consumer 
   7,431 
$  2,117 
$ 1,672 
$ 11,220 
 $ 408,302 $  419,522  $ 1,672
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   --- 
   76   --- 
  76    64    140 
   ---
(2)  
Total other consumer 
$  7,431 
$  2,193 
$ 1,672 
$ 11,296 
 $ 408,366 $  419,662  $ 1,672
  Total loans and leases 
$  278,011 $  107,327 $ 440,287 $ 825,625  $ 39,902,800 
$  40,728,425 
 $ 201,132    118 
 (1) 
NALs are included in this aging analysis based on the loan's past due status. 
  (2) 
All amounts represent accruing purchased credit-impaired loans related to the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank acquisition.  Under t
he applicable accounting guidance (ASC-31
0-30), the loans were record
ed at fair value upon acquisition and remain in accruing 
status.   (3) 
Includes $87,985 thousand guarant
eed by the U.S. government. 
  (4) 
Includes $90,816 thousand guarant
eed by the U.S. government. 
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
 The ACL is increased through recoveries and the provision for credit losses that is charged to earnings, based on Management™s 
quarterly evaluation, and is reduced by NC
Os and the ACL associated with securitized or sold loans.  There were no material cha
nges 
in assumptions or estimation techniques compared with prior period
s that impacted the determinati
on of the current period™s ALL
L and AULC.   
 During a 2013 review of our consumer po
rtfolios, we identified add
itional loans associated with bo
rrowers who had filed Chapter
 7 bankruptcy and had not reaffirmed their debt, thus meeting the 
definition of collateral dependen
t per OCC regulatory guidance
.  These loans were not identified in the 2012 third quarter implementation of the O
CC™s regulatory guidance.  The bankruptcy cour
t™s discharge of the borrower™s debt is considered a concession when
 the discharged debt is not reaffirmed, and as such, the loan i
s placed 
on nonaccrual status, and written down to collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.  As a result of the review of our e
xisting 
consumer portfolios, additional NCOs of $22.8 million were recorded
 in 2013.  The majority of 
the NCO impact was in the home 
equity portfolio and relates to junior-lie
n loans that meet the regulatory guidance. 
The following table presents ALLL and AULC activity by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 
2011: 
       Commercial
Commercial
  Home 
Residential Other 
     and Industrial
Real Estate Automobile
Equity Mortgage 
Consumer
Total (dollar amounts in thousands)
                        Year ended December 31, 2013: 
                         ALLL balance, beginning of period 
$  241,051 $ 285,369 $ 34,979 
$ 118,764$ 61,658 
$  27,254 
$ 769,075    Loan charge-offs 
   (45,904)
  (69,512)
  (23,912)
  (98,184)
  (34,236)
   (34,568)
  (306,316)
    Recoveries of loans previously 
charged-off 
   29,514 
  44,658 
  13,375 
  15,921
  7,074 
   7,108 
  117,650    Provision for loan and lease losses 
   41,140 
  (97,958)
  6,611 
  74,630
  5,417 
   37,957 
  67,797
    Allowance for loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for sale 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  ---
  (336)
   --- 
  (336)
  ALLL balance, end of period 
$  265,801 $ 162,557 $ 31,053 
$ 111,131$ 39,577 
$  37,751 
$ 647,870  AULC balance, beginning of period 
$  33,868 
$ 4,740 
$ --- 
$ 1,356
$ 3 $  684 
$ 40,651
    Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters of credit 
   15,728 
  5,151 
  --- 
  407  6    956 
  22,248
  AULC balance, end of period 
$  49,596 
$ 9,891 
$ --- 
$ 1,763
$ 9 $  1,640 
$ 62,899
  ACL balance, end of period 
$  315,397 $ 172,448 $ 31,053 
$ 112,894$ 39,586 
$  39,391 
$ 710,769   119 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
                        Year ended December 31, 2012: 
                         ALLL balance, beginning of period 
$  275,367 $ 388,706 $ 38,282 
$ 143,873$ 87,194 
$  31,406 
$ 964,828    Loan charge-offs 
   (101,475)
  (118,051)
  (26,070)
  (124,286)
  (52,228)
   (33,090)
  (455,200)
    Recoveries of loans previously 
charged-off 
   37,227 
  39,622 
  16,628 
  7,907
  4,305 
   7,049 
  112,738    Provision for loan and lease losses 
   29,932 
  (24,908)
  12,964 
  91,270
  24,046 
   21,889 
  155,193    Allowance for loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for sale 
   --- 
  --- 
  (6,825)
  ---
  (1,659)
   --- 
  (8,484)
  ALLL balance, end of period 
$  241,051 $ 285,369 $ 34,979 
$ 118,764$ 61,658 
$  27,254 
$ 769,075  AULC balance, beginning of period 
$  39,658 
$ 5,852 
$ --- 
$ 2,134
$ 1 $  811 
$ 48,456
    Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters of credit 
   (5,790)
  (1,112)
  --- 
  (778)
  2    (127)
  (7,805)
  AULC balance, end of period 
$  33,868 
$ 4,740 
$ --- 
$ 1,356
$ 3 $  684 
$ 40,651
  ACL balance, end of period 
$  274,919 $ 290,109 $ 34,979 
$ 120,120$ 61,661 
$  27,938 
$ 809,726 (dollar amounts in thousands)
                        Year Ended December 31, 2011: 
                         ALLL balance, beginning of period 
$  340,614 $  588,251 $  49,488 
$  150,630$  93,289 
$  26,736 
$  1,249,008     Loan charge-offs 
 (134,385)
 (182,759)
 (33,593)
 (109,427)
 (65,069)
 (32,520)
 (557,753)
    Recoveries of loans previously 
charged-off 
   44,686 
  34,658 
  18,526 
  7,630
  8,388 
   6,776 
  120,664     Provision for loan and lease losses 
   24,452 
  (51,444)
  17,042 
  95,040
  52,226 
   30,414 
  167,730     Allowance for loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for sale 
   --- 
  --- 
  (13,181)
  ---
  (1,640)
   --- 
  (14,821)
  ALLL balance, end of period 
$  275,367 $ 388,706 $ 38,282 
$ 143,873$ 87,194 
$  31,406 
$ 964,828   AULC balance, beginning of period 
$  32,726 
$ 6,158 
$ --- 
$ 2,348
$ 1 $  894 
$ 42,127 
    Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters-of-credit    6,932 
  (306)
  --- 
  (214)
  --- 
   (83)
  6,329 
  AULC balance, end of period 
   39,658 
  5,852 
  --- 
  2,134
  1    811 
  48,456 
  ACL balance, end of period 
$  315,025 $ 394,558 $ 38,282 
$ 146,007$ 87,195 
$  32,217 
$ 1,013,284 Credit Quality Indicators  To facilitate the monitoring of credit quality for C&I and CRE loans, and for pur
poses of determining an appropriate ACL level 
for these loans, Huntington utilizes the following categor
ies of credit grades:   
 Pass -   Higher quality loans th
at do not fit any of the other 
categories described below. 
   OLEM -   The credit risk may be relatively minor yet represent a risk given certain specific circumstances.  If the 
potential weaknesses are not monitored or mitigated
, the loan may weaken or the collateral may be 
inadequate to protect Huntington™s position in the future.  For these reasons, Huntington considers the loans 

to be potential problem loans. 
   
Substandard -   Inadequately protected 
loans by the borrower™s ab
ility to repay, equity, and/or the collateral pledged to 
secure the loan.  These loans have identified weaknesses that could hinder normal repayment or collection 
of the debt.  It is likely Huntingt
on will sustain some loss 
if any identified weaknesses are not mitigated. 
   Doubtful  -  Loans that have all of the weaknesses inherent
 in those loans classified as Substandard, with the added 
elements of the full collection of the loan is improba
ble and that the possibility of loss is high. 
 The categories above, which are derived 
from standard regulatory rating definitions
, are assigned upon initial approval of the loan 
or lease and subsequently updated as appropriate. 
120 
 Commercial loans categorized as OLEM, Substandard, or Doubtful are considered
 Criticized loans.  Commercial loans 
categorized as Substandard or Doubtful are also considered Cl
assified loans.  For all classes within all consumer loan po
rtfolios, each loan is assigned a specific PD factor that is partially based on the 
borrower™s most recent credit bureau score (FICO), which we update quarterly.  A FICO credit bureau score is a credit score 
developed by Fair Isaac Corporation based on data provided by the credit bureaus.  The FICO credit bureau score is widely accep
ted as the standard measure of consumer credit risk used by lenders, regulators, rating agencies, and consumers.  The higher the FI
CO 
credit bureau score, the higher likelihood of repayment 
and therefore, an indicator of higher credit quality. 
 Huntington assesses the risk in
 the loan portfolio by
 utilizing numerous risk characteristics
.  The classifications described a
bove, 
and also presented in the table below, represent one of those ch
aracteristics that are closely m
onitored in the overall credit 
risk management processes.  The table below also shows an increase in
 FICO scores less than 650 for the automobile portfolio.  This 
increase is proportional to growth in the 
portfolio and does not reflect a deterior
ation in asset quality for the portfolio, as
 other risk 
characteristics mitigate any increased level of risk associated with the FICO score distribution.   
 
The following table presents each loan and lease class by credit quality indicator for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 
2012: 
     December 31, 2013 
  Credit Risk Profile by UCS classification
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Pass OLEM 
SubstandardDoubtful 
Total Commercial and industrial:                       Owner occupied 
$ 4,052,579 $ 130,645 $ 155,994 $ 8,654 
$ 4,347,872   Purchased impaired 
 5,015 
 661 
 27,693 
 2,157 
 35,526 
  Other commercial and industrial 
   12,630,512 
   211,860    364,343    4,163 
   13,210,878 
Total commercial and industrial
 $ 16,688,106 
$ 343,166 $ 548,030 $ 14,974 
$ 17,594,276 
Commercial real estate:                       Retail properties 
$ 1,153,747 $ 16,003 
$ 93,819 
$ --- 
$ 1,263,569   Multi family    972,526    16,540 
   36,411 
   114 
   1,025,591   Office    847,411    4,866 
   87,722 
   2,294 
   942,293   Industrial and warehouse 
   431,057    14,138 
   27,698 
   --- 
   472,893   Purchased impaired 
   13,127 
   3,586 
   62,577 
   2,783 
   82,073 
  Other commercial real estate 
   977,987    16,270 
   68,653 
   765 
   1,063,675 Total commercial real estate
 $ 4,395,855 $ 71,403 
$ 376,880 $ 5,956 
$ 4,850,094     Credit Risk Profile by FICO score (1) 
    750+ 
650-749 
<650 
Other (2) 
Total Automobile 
$ 2,987,323 $ 2,517,756 $ 945,604 $ 188,030 $ 6,638,713 Home equity:
                       Secured by first-lien 
$ 3,018,784 $ 1,412,445 $ 299,681 $ 111,234 $ 4,842,144   Secured by junior-lien 
   1,811,102    1,213,024    413,695    56,353 
   3,494,174 Total home equity
 $ 4,829,886 $ 2,625,469 $ 713,376 $ 167,587 $ 8,336,318 Residential mortgage:
                       Residential mortgage 
$ 2,837,590 $ 1,710,183 $ 699,541 $ 71,276 
$ 5,318,590   Purchased impaired 
   588 
   989 
   921 
   --- 
   2,498 
Total residential mortgage
 $ 2,838,178 $ 1,711,172 $ 700,462 $ 71,276 
$ 5,321,088 Other consumer
                       Other consumer 
$ 161,858 $ 157,675 $ 45,370 
$ 14,979 
$ 379,882   Purchased impaired 
   --- 
   60    69    --- 
   129 
Total other consumer loans
 $ 161,858 $ 157,735 $ 45,439 
$ 14,979 
$ 380,011   121 
     December 31, 2012 
  Credit Risk Profile by UCS classification
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Pass OLEM 
SubstandardDoubtful 
Total Commercial and industrial:                       Owner occupied 
$ 3,970,597 $ 108,731 $ 205,822 $ 769 
$ 4,285,919   Purchased impaired 
 1,663 
 6,555 
 46,254 
 --- 
 54,472 
  Other commercial and industrial 
   12,146,017 
   145,111    337,805    1,365 
   12,630,298 
Total commercial and industrial 
$ 16,118,277 
$ 260,397 $ 589,881 $ 2,134 
$ 16,970,689 
Commercial real estate:                       Retail properties 
$ 1,184,987 $ 63,976 
$ 181,896 $ --- 
$ 1,430,859   Multi family    902,616    24,098 
   57,548 
   138 
   984,400   Office    826,533    26,488 
   83,093 
   --- 
   936,114   Industrial and warehouse 
   540,484    15,132 
   41,286 
   --- 
   596,902   Purchased impaired 
   10,052 
   18,085 
   98,786 
   --- 
   126,923   Other commercial real estate 
   1,177,213    43,454 
   103,262    113 
   1,324,042 Total commercial real estate 
$ 4,641,885 $ 191,233 $ 565,871 $ 251 
$ 5,399,240     Credit Risk Profile by FICO score (1) 
    750+ 
650-749 
<650 
Other (2) 
Total Automobile 
$ 2,233,439 $ 1,900,824 $ 682,518 $ 117,039 $ 4,933,820(3) 
Home equity: 
                      Secured by first-lien 
 2,618,888  1,345,621  357,019  59,059 
 4,380,587   Secured by junior-lien 
   2,046,143    1,375,636    491,226    41,750 
   3,954,755 Total home equity 
$ 4,665,031 $ 2,721,257 $ 848,245 $ 100,809 $ 8,335,342 Residential mortgage: 
                      Residential mortgage 
 2,561,210  1,673,485  711,750  20,984 
 4,967,429   Purchased impaired 
   373 
   1,303 
   567 
   --- 
   2,243 
Total residential mortgage 
 2,561,583 $ 1,674,788 $ 712,317 $ 20,984 
$ 4,969,672 Other consumer 
                      Other consumer 
 169,792  167,389  59,815 
 22,526 
 419,522   Purchased impaired 
   --- 
   93    47    --- 
   140 
Total other consumer loans 
 169,792 $ 167,482 $ 59,862 
$ 22,526 
$ 419,662 (1) 
Reflects currently updated customer credit scores. 
(2) 
Reflects deferred fees and costs, loans in
 process, loans to legal entities, etc. 
(3) 
Includes $0.3 billion of loans ref
lected as loans held for sale. 
  122 
 Impaired Loans 
A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that not all amounts due 
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will be collected.  The following tables present the balance of the AL
LL 
attributable to loans by portfolio segment 
individually and collectively evaluated for impairment a
nd the related loan and leas
e balance 
for the years ended December 31, 2013, and 2012 (1):  
       Commercial 
Commercial
    Residential Other 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 and Industrial
 Real Estate Automobile 
Home Equity
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Total ALLL at December 31, 2013:
                 Portion of ALLL balance: 
                  Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans 
$ 2,404 
$ ---
$ ---
$ ---
$ 36 $ --- 
$ 2,440
    Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 6,129 
 34,935
 682 8,003
 10,555 
 136 
 60,440
    Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 257,268  127,622 30,371
 103,128 28,986 
 37,615 
 584,990  Total ALLL balance 
$ 265,801 $ 162,557$ 31,053
$ 111,131$ 39,577 
$ 37,751 
$ 647,870Loans and Leases at December 31, 2013:
               Portion of loan and lease 
ending balance: 
                  Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans 
$ 35,526 
$ 82,073
$ ---
$ ---
$ 2,498 
$ 129 
$ 120,226    Individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 108,316  268,362 37,084
 208,981 387,937  1,041 
 1,011,721    Collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 17,450,434 
 4,499,659 6,601,629 8,127,337 4,930,653  378,841  41,988,553
  Total loans evaluated for 
impairment 
$ 17,594,276 
$ 4,850,094$ 6,638,713$ 8,336,318$ 5,321,088 $ 380,011 $ 43,120,500
  Portion of ending balance: 
                  With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances 
$ 126,626 $ 187,836$ 37,084
$ 208,981$ 390,435 $ 1,041 
$ 952,003    With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances 
   17,216 
   162,599  ---
  ---
  --- 
   129 
  179,944  Total $ 143,842 $ 350,435$ 37,084
$ 208,981$ 390,435 $ 1,170 
$ 1,131,947  Average balance of impaired 
loans 
$ 166,173 $ 365,053$ 39,861
$ 162,170$ 379,815 $ 2,248 
$ 1,115,320  ALLL on impaired loans 
 8,533 
 34,935
 682 8,003
 10,591 
 136 
 62,880
                                 123 
 ALLL at December 31, 2012:
                         (dollar amounts in thousands)
                           Portion of ending balance: 
                            Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 
impairment 
   11,694 
   31,133
  1,446
  4,783
  14,176 
   213 
  63,445
    Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
   229,357    254,236  33,533
  113,981  47,482 
   27,041 
  705,630  Total ALLL balance 
$  241,051 $  285,369$ 34,979
$ 118,764$ 61,658 
$  27,254 
$ 769,075Loans and Leases at December 31, 2012: 
                    (dollar amounts in thousands)
                           Portion of ending balance: 
                            Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans 
$  54,472 
$  126,923$ ---
$ ---
$ 2,243 
$  140 
$ 183,778    Individually evaluated for 
impairment 
   119,535    298,891  43,607
  117,532  374,526    2,657 
  956,748    Collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
   16,796,682 
   4,973,426  4,590,213  8,217,810  4,592,903    416,865   39,587,899
  Total loans evaluated for 
impairment 
$  16,970,689 
$  5,399,240$ 4,633,820$ 8,335,342$ 4,969,672 $  419,662 $ 40,728,425
 Portion of ending balance:
                          With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances 
$  86,644 
$  193,413$ 43,607
$ 117,532$ 374,526 $  2,657 
$ 818,379  With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances 
   87,363 
   232,401  ---
  ---
  2,243 
   140 
  322,147 Total$  174,007 $  425,814$ 43,607
$ 117,532$ 376,769 $  2,797 
$ 1,140,526 Average balance of impaired 
loans$  179,692 $  474,362$ 39,139
$ 79,523
$ 348,727 $  4,448 
$ 1,125,891 ALLL on impaired loans
   11,694 
   31,133
  1,446
  4,783
  14,176 
   213 
  63,445
  124 
 The following tables presen
t by class the ending, unpaid principal balance, 
and the related ALLL, along with the average balanc
e and interest income recognized only for loans and leases individua
lly evaluated for impairment and purchased credit-impaired lo
ans for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (1), (2): 
                    Year Ended
   December 31, 2013
December 31, 2013
           Unpaid         Interest 
      Ending 
Principal 
Related  Average 
Income 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 Balance Balance (5)Allowance Balance Recognized With no related allowance recorded:
                        Commercial and industrial:                Owner occupied 
$ 5,332 
$  5,373 
$ --- 
$  4,473 
$  172 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
 --- 
    Other commercial and 
industrial    11,884 
   15,031 
   --- 
    13,117 
   640 
  Total commercial and industrial 
$ 17,216 
$  20,404 
$ --- 
 $  17,590 
$  812 
                             Commercial real estate:                          Retail properties 
$ 55,773 
$  64,780 
$ --- 
$  46,764 
$  2,450 
    Multi family    --- 
   --- 
   --- 
    3,627 
   220 
    Office    9,069 
   13,721 
   --- 
    12,151 
   1,161 
    Industrial and warehouse 
   9,682 
   10,803 
   --- 
    10,586 
   595 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   82,073 
   154,869    --- 
    104,513    10,875 
    Other commercial real estate 
   6,002 
   6,924 
   --- 
    7,954 
   434 
  Total commercial real estate 
$ 162,599 $  251,097 $ --- 
 $  185,595 $  15,735 
                             Automobile 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$  --- 
  Home equity: 
                         Secured by first-lien 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
    Secured by junior-lien 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
    --- 
   --- 
  Total home equity 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
  Residential mortgage: 
                         Residential mortgage 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
    --- 
   --- 
  Total residential mortgage 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
  Other consumer: 
                         Other consumer 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   129 
   219 
   --- 
    137 
   17   Total other consumer 
$ 129 
$ 219 
$ --- 
 $ 137 
$ 17                              125 
 With an allowance recorded:
                        Commercial and industrial: (3)                          Owner occupied 
$ 40,271 
$  52,810 
$ 3,421 
 $  41,469 
$  1,390 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
 35,526 
   50,798 
   2,404 
    47,442 
   4,708 
    Other commercial and 
industrial    50,829 
   64,497 
   2,708 
    59,672 
   3,242 
  Total commercial and industrial 
$ 126,626 $  168,105 $ 8,533 
 $  148,583 $  9,340 
                             Commercial real estate: (4)                          Retail properties 
$ 72,339 
$  93,395 
$ 5,984 
 $  64,414 
$  1,936 
    Multi family    13,484 
   15,408 
   1,944 
    14,922 
   651 
    Office    50,307 
   54,921 
   9,927 
    48,113 
   1,808 
    Industrial and warehouse 
   9,162 
   10,561 
   808 
    15,322 
   541 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
    --- 
   --- 
    Other commercial real estate 
   42,544 
   50,960 
   16,272 
    36,687 
   1,547 
  Total commercial real estate 
$ 187,836 $  225,245 $ 34,935 
 $  179,458 $  6,483 
                   Automobile 
$ 37,084 
$  38,758 
$ 682 
 $ 39,861 
$ 2,955 
  Home equity: 
                         Secured by first-lien 
$ 110,024 $ 116,846 $ 2,396 
 $ 96,184 
$ 4,116 
    Secured by junior-lien 
   98,957 
   143,967    5,607 
    65,986 
   3,379 
  Total home equity 
$ 208,981 $ 260,813 $ 8,003 
 $ 162,170 $ 7,495 
  Residential mortgage: (6) 
                         Residential mortgage 
$ 387,937 $ 427,924 $ 10,555 
 $ 377,530 $ 11,752 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   2,498 
   3,681 
   36     2,285 
   331 
  Total residential mortgage 
$ 390,435 $ 431,605 $ 10,591 
 $ 379,815 $ 12,083 
  Other consumer: 
                         Other consumer 
$ 1,041 
$ 1,041 
$ 136 
 $ 2,111 
$ 116 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
    --- 
   --- 
  Total other consumer 
$ 1,041 
$ 1,041 
$ 136 
 $ 2,111 
$ 116 
   126 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
              Year Ended 
    December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2012 
            Unpaid         Interest 
        Ending 
Principal 
Related  Average 
Income 
        Balance Balance (5)Allowance Balance Recognized   With no related allowance recorded:
                          Commercial and Industrial: 
                 Owner occupied 
$ 1,050 
$  1,091 
$ --- 
$  4,246 
$  77       Purchased credit-impaired 
 54,472 
 80,294 
 --- 
 57,602 
 2,359 
      Other commercial and 
industrial    31,841 
   54,520 
   --- 
    11,922 
   555 
    Total commercial and industrial 
$ 87,363 
$  135,905 $ --- 
 $  73,770 
$  2,991 
                                 Commercial real estate:                            Retail properties 
$ 54,216 
$  56,569 
$ --- 
$  51,939 
$  2,758 
      Multi family    5,719 
   5,862 
   --- 
    5,631 
   353 
      Office    20,051 
   24,843 
   --- 
    6,734 
   405 
      Industrial and warehouse 
   15,013 
   17,476 
   --- 
    9,877 
   501 
      Purchased credit-impaired 
   126,923    226,093    --- 
    141,278    5,497 
      Other commercial real estate 
   10,479 
   10,728 
   --- 
    15,125 
   501 
    Total commercial real estate 
$ 232,401 $  341,571 $ --- 
 $  230,584 $  10,015 
                                 Automobile 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$  --- 
    Home equity: 
                           Secured by first-lien 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
      Secured by junior-lien 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
    --- 
   --- 
    Total home equity 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
    Residential mortgage: 
                           Residential mortgage 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
      Purchased credit-impaired 
   2,243 
   4,104 
   --- 
    3,521 
   97     Total residential mortgage 
$ 2,243 
$ 4,104 
$ --- 
 $ 3,521 
$ 97     Other consumer: 
                           Other consumer 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$ --- 
 $ --- 
$ --- 
      Purchased credit-impaired 
   140 
   245 
   --- 
    622 
   6     Total other consumer 
$ 140 
$ 245 
$ --- 
 $ 622 
$ 6                                  127 
 With an allowance recorded:
                          Commercial and Industrial: (3) 
                           Owner occupied 
$ 46,266 
$  56,925 
$ 5,730 
 $  40,029 
$  1,327 
      Other commercial and 
industrial    40,378 
   52,996 
   5,964 
    65,893 
   2,304 
    Total commercial and industrial 
$ 86,644 
$  109,921 $ 11,694 
 $  105,922 $  3,631 
                                 Commercial real estate: (4)                            Retail properties 
$ 65,004 
$  73,000 
$ 8,144 
 $  107,842 $  4,730 
      Multi family    17,410 
   18,531 
   2,662 
    27,953 
   1,371 
      Office    40,375 
   45,164 
   9,214 
    18,751 
   379 
      Industrial and warehouse 
   22,450 
   25,374 
   1,092 
    24,454 
   717 
      Other commercial real estate 
   48,174 
   63,148 
   10,021 
    64,778 
   2,413 
    Total commercial real estate 
$ 193,413 $  225,217 $ 31,133 
 $  243,778 $  9,610 
                       Automobile 
$ 43,607 
$  44,790 
$ 1,446 
 $ 39,139 
$ 3,382 
    Home equity loans and lines-of-
credit:                            Secured by first-lien 
$ 76,258 
$ 80,831 
$ 1,329 
 $ 54,898 
$ 2,651 
      Secured by junior-lien 
   41,274 
   63,390 
   3,454 
    24,625 
   1,382 
    Total home equity 
$ 117,532 $ 144,221 $ 4,783 
 $ 79,523 
$ 4,033 
    Residential mortgage: 
                           Residential mortgage 
$ 374,526 $ 413,583 $ 14,176 
 $ 345,206 $ 11,420 
    Total residential mortgage 
$ 374,526 $ 413,583 $ 14,176 
 $ 345,206 $ 11,420 
    Other consumer: 
                           Other consumer 
$ 2,657 
$ 2,657 
$ 213 
 $ 3,826 
$ 126 
    Total other consumer 
$ 2,657 
$ 2,657 
$ 213 
 $ 3,826 
$ 126 
  (1) 
These tables do not include loans fully charged-off. 
  (2) 
All automobile, home equity, residential mortgage
, and other consumer impaired loans included in 
these tables are considered impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
  (3) 
At December 31, 2013, $43,805 thousand of the $126,626 thousand C&I loans with an allowance 
recorded were considered impaired due to their status as a TDR.  At December 31, 2012, $44,265 
thousand of the $86,644 thousand C&I loans with an allowance recorded
 were considered impaired due 
to their status as a TDR. 
  (4) 
At December 31, 2013, $24,805 thousand of the $187,836 thousand CRE loans with an allowance 
recorded were considered impaired due to their status as a TDR.  At December 31, 2012, $31,605 
thousand of the $193,413 thousand CRE loans with 
an allowance recorded were considered impaired 
due to their status as a TDR. 
  (5) 
The differences between the ending balance and 
unpaid principal balance amounts represent partial 
charge-offs. 
  (6) 
At December 31, 2013, $49,225 thousand of the $390,435 thousand residential mortgage loans with an 
allowance recorded were guaranteed by the U.S. government.  At December 31, 2012, $28,695 
thousand of the $374,526 thousa
nd residential mortgage loans with an allowance recorded were 
guaranteed by the U.S. government. 
  TDR Loans 
 TDRs are modified loans where a concessi
on was provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  Loan modifications 
are considered TDRs when the concessions provided are not av
ailable to the borrower through either normal channels or other 
sources. However, not all loan modifications are TDRs.   
 The amount of interest that would have been recorded under
 the original terms for total accruing TDR loans was $43.9 million, 
$41.2 million, and $37.7 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  The total amount of interest recorded to interest inc
ome for 
these loans was $35.7 million, $32.2 million, and $28.2 million for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 

  128 
 TDR Concession Types 
 The Company™s standards relating to loan 
modifications consider, among other factors
, minimum verified income requirements, 
cash flow analysis, and collateral valuations. 
 Each potential loan modification is review
ed individually and the terms of the 
loan are 
modified to meet a borrower™s specific circumstances at a point in time.  All commercial TDRs are reviewed and approved by our 

SAD. The types of concessions pr
ovided to borrowers include: 
  Interest rate reduction:  A reduction of the stated interest rate 
to a nonmarket rate for the remaining original life of the de
bt. 
  Amortization or maturity date change beyond what the collateral supports, including any of the following: 
 (1)
 Lengthens the amortization period of the amortized principal
 beyond market terms.  This concession reduces the 
minimum monthly payment and increases the amount of the balloon payment at the end of the term of the loan.  
Principal is generally not forgiven. 
(2)
 Reduces the amount of loan principal to be amortized an
d increases the amount of the balloon payment at the end 
of the term of the loan.  This concession also reduces 
the minimum monthly payment.  Principal is generally not 
forgiven. 
(3)
 Extends the maturity date or dates of the debt beyond
 what the collateral supports.  
This concession generally 
applies to loans without a balloon paym
ent at the end of the term of the loan. 
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy:  A bankruptcy court™s discharge of a bo
rrower™s debt is considered a concession when the borrower 
does not reaffirm the discharged debt. 

  Other:  A concession that is not categori
zed as one of the concessions described above.  These concessions include, but are 
not limited to:  principal forgiveness, collateral concessions, 
covenant concessions, and reduction of accrued interest. 
Principal forgiveness may result from any TDR modification of
 any concession type.  However, the aggregate amount of 
principal forgiven as a result of loans modified as TDRs during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, was not 
significant. 
 Following is a description of TDRs by the different loan types: 
 Commercial loan TDRs
 Œ Commercial accruing TDRs often result from loans receiving a concession with terms that are not 
considered a market transaction to Huntington.  The TDR remains in accruing status as
 long as the customer is less than 90-days
 past due on payments per the restructured loan terms and no loss is expected.   
 Commercial nonaccrual TDRs result from either: (1) an accruing commercial TDR being placed on nonaccrual status, or (2) a 
workout where an existing commercial NAL is restructured and a concession was given.  At times, these workou
ts restructure the 
NAL so that two or more new notes are created.  The primary note is underwritten based upon our normal underwriting standards 

and is sized so projected cash flows are sufficient to repay cont
ractual principal and interest.  The terms on the secondary no
te(s) 
vary by situation, and may include notes th
at defer principal and interest payments 
until after the primary note is repaid.  Cr
eating two or more notes often allows the borrower to continue 
a project or weather a temporary economic downturn and allows 
Huntington to right-size a loan based upon the current expectations for a borrower™s or project™s performance.   
 
Our strategy involving TDR borrowers includ
es working with these borrowers to allow them to refinance elsewhere, as well 
as allow them time to improve their financial position and remain our customer through refinancing their notes according to 

market terms and conditions in the future.  A subsequent refina
ncing or modification of a loan ma
y occur when either the loan 
matures according to the terms of the TDR-modif
ied agreement or the borrower requests a change to the loan agreements.  At that
 time, the loan is evaluated to determine if it is creditworthy. 
 It is subjected to the normal
 underwriting standards and proce
sses 
for other similar credit extensions, both new and existing.  The re
financed note is evaluated to determine if it is considered 
a new loan or a continuation of the prior loan.  A 
new loan is considered for removal of 
the TDR designation, whereas a continuation 
of 
the prior note requires a continuation of the 
TDR designation.  In order for a TDR designation to be removed, the borrower must
 no longer be experiencing financial difficulties and the terms 
of the refinanced loan must 
not represent a concession.  
   129 
 Residential Mortgage loan TDRs
 Œ Residential mortgage TDRs represent loan m
odifications associated with traditional first-lien 
mortgage loans in which a concession has been provided to the 
borrower.  The primary concessions given to residential mortgage 
borrowers are amortization or maturity da
te changes and interest rate reductions.  Residential mortgages identified as TDRs 
involve borrowers unable to refinance thei
r mortgages through the Company™s normal 
mortgage origination channels or through 
other independent sources.  Some, but not a
ll, of the loans may be delinquent.   
 Automobile, Home Equity, and
 Other Consumer loan TDRs
 Œ The Company may make similar interest rate, term, and 
principal concessions as with residential mortgage loan TDRs.   
 TDR Impact on Credit Quality 
 Huntington™s ALLL is largely determined by updated risk rati
ngs assigned to commercial loans, updated borrower credit scores 
on consumer loans, and borrower delinquenc
y history in both the commercial and consumer
 portfolios.  These updated risk ratings
 and credit scores consider the default history of the borrower, incl
uding payment redefaults.  As such, the provision for credit lo
sses is 
impacted primarily by changes in borrower payment performance rather than the TDR classification.  TDRs can be classified as ei
ther 
accrual or nonaccrual loans.  Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from NALs as it is 
probable that all contractual principal and interest 
due under the restructured terms will be collected.   
 Our TDRs may include multiple concessions and the disclosure classifications are presented based on the primary concession 
provided to the borrower.  The majority of
 our concessions for the C&I and CRE portfolio
s are the extension of
 the maturity dat
e coupled with an increase in the interest 
rate.  In these instances, the primary conc
ession is the maturity date extension.  
 TDR concessions may also result in the reduction of the ALLL with
in the C&I and CRE portfolios.  This reduction is derived 
from payments and the resulting 
application of the reserve calculati
on within the ALLL.  The tr
ansaction reserve for non-TDR C&
I and CRE loans is calculated based 
upon several estimated probability
 factors, such as PD and LGD,
 both of which were previously
 discussed.  Upon the occurrence of a TDR in our C&I and CRE port
folios, the reserve is measured based on discounted expected ca
sh 
flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling costs, of the modified loan in accordance with ASC 310-10.  The resulting T
DR ALLL calculation often results in a lower ALLL amount because (1) the discounted expected cash flows or collateral value, less 

anticipated selling costs, indicate a lower es
timated loss, (2) if the modification includes a rate increase, the discounting o
f the cash 
flows on the modified loan, using the pre
-modification interest rate, exceeds the ca
rrying value of the loan, or (3) payments m
ay occur 
as part of the modification.  The ALLL for C&I and CRE loans may increase as a result of the modification, as the discounted ca
sh 
flow analysis may indicate additional reserves are required. 
 TDR concessions on consumer loans may increase the ALLL.  Th
e concessions made to these borrowers often include interest 
rate reductions, and therefore, the TDR ALLL calculation results in 
a greater ALLL compared with the non-TDR calculation as the
 reserve is measured based on the estimat
ion of the discounted expected
 cash flows or collateral 
value, less anticipated selling costs, on 
the modified loan in accordance with ASC 310-10.  The resulting TDR ALLL calculation often results in a higher ALLL amount 
because (1) the discounted expected cash flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling costs, indicate a higher estimated loss or, 
(2) due to the rate decrease, the discounting of the cash flow
s on the modified loan, using th
e pre-modification interest rate,
 indicates a 
reduction in the expected cash flows or collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.  In certain instances, the ALLL may d
ecrease as 
a result of payments made in 
connection with the modification. 
 Commercial loan TDRs
 Œ  In instances where the bank 
substantiates that it will collect its outsta
nding balance in full, the note is 
considered for return to accrual status upon the borrower sustaini
ng sufficient cash flows for a si
x-month period of time.  Thi
s six-
month period could extend before or after 
the restructure date.  If a charge-off was taken as part of the restructuring, any in
terest or principal payments received on that note are applied to first reduce the bank™s outstanding book balance and then to recoveries
 of 
charged-off principal, unpaid intere
st, and/or fee expenses while th
e TDR is in nonaccrual status. 
 Residential Mortgage, Automobile, Home 
Equity, and Other Consumer loan TDRs
 Œ Modified loans identified as TDRs are 
aggregated into pools fo
r analysis.  Cash flows and weight
ed average interest rates are used to calculate impairment at the poo
led-loan level.  Once the loans are aggregated
 into the pool, they continue to be classified
 as TDRs until contractually repaid or charg
ed-off.   
 Residential mortgage loans not guaranteed by a U.S. government
 agency such as the FHA, VA, and the USDA, including TDR 
loans, are reported as accrual or nonaccrual based upon delinquency status.  Nonaccrual TDRs are those that are greater than 15
0-days 
contractually past due.  Loans guaranteed 
by U.S. government organizations continue 
to accrue interest upon delinquency.   
  130 
 The following table presents by class and by the reason for the 
modification the number of 
contracts, post-modification 
outstanding balance, and the financial effects of the modi
fication for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
     New Troubled Debt Restructurings During The Year Ended
(1)    December 31, 2013
 December 31, 2012 
      Post-modification
                Outstanding 
     Post-modification
      Number of 
Ending 
Financial effects
 Number of
Outstanding 
Financial effects
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 Contracts Balance of modification
(2) ContractsBalance of modification
(2)C&I - Owner occupied:
(3) 
                        Interest rate reduction
  22 $ 6,601 
$ (466)
 28 $ 10,501 
$ 145 
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 64    15,662 
   (12)
 95    23,337 
   660 
  Other 
 16    7,367 
   337 
 16    4,923 
   1,089 
Total C&I - Owner occupied 
 102 
$ 29,630 
$ (141)
 139 
$ 38,761 
$ 1,894 
C&I - Other commercial and 
industrial:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  26 $ 75,447 
$ (1,040)
 27 $ 7,436 
$ (2)
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 120 
   53,340 
   1,295 
 141 
   76,814 
   (3,037)
  Other 
 35    18,290 
   (1,163)
 32    37,202 
   1,265 
Total C&I - Other commercial 
and industrial  181 
$ 147,077 $ (908)
 200 
$ 121,452 $ (1,774)
CRE - Retail properties:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  4 $ 1,116 
$ (8)
 9 $ 6,883 
$ 957 
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 21    27,550 
   4,159 
 15    4,472 
   (25)
  Other 
 12    19,842 
   (558)
 3    1,680 
   (1)
Total CRE - Retail properties 
 37 $ 48,508 
$ 3,593 
 27 $ 13,035 
$ 931 
CRE - Multi family:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  10 $ 4,444 
$ 7  11 $ 1,288 
$ (27)
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 16    2,345 
   415 
 32    3,554 
   (1)
  Other 
 5    8,085 
   (2)
 7    7,961 
   668 
Total CRE - Multi family 
 31 $ 14,874 
$ 420 
 50 $ 12,803 
$ 640 
CRE - Office:(3)
                         Interest rate reduction
  7 $ 6,504 
$ 1,656 
 4 $ 4,155 
$ (236)
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 16    12,388 
   91  12    40,152 
   4,199 
  Other 
 6    7,044 
   655 
 6    1,637 
   276 
Total CRE - Office  29 $ 25,936 
$ 2,402 
 22 $ 45,944 
$ 4,239 
CRE - Industrial and 
warehouse:(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  1 $ 2,682 
$ (476)
 3 $ 7,470 
$ (296)
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 9    4,069 
   (185)
 16    34,613 
   (3,857)
  Other 
 1    5,867 
   --- 
 1    1,047 
   (30)
Total CRE - Industrial and 
Warehouse 
 11 $ 12,618 
$ (661)
 20 $ 43,130 
$ (4,183)
  131 
 CRE - Other commercial real 
estate:(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  19 $ 10,996 
$ 96  10 $ 2,944 
$ (288)
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 21    17,851 
   4,923 
 48    80,672 
   4,090 
  Other 
 13    9,735 
   (101)
 6    10,030 
   (2,024)
Total CRE - Other commercial 
real estate  53 $ 38,582 
$ 4,918 
 64 $ 93,646 
$ 1,778 
Automobile:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  14 $ 106 
$ --- 
 40 $ 368 
$ 4   Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 1,659 
   9,420 
   (76)
 1,910 
   13,186 
   (103)
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 1,313 
   7,748 
   301 
 2,104 
   12,423 
   1,866 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
Total Automobile 
 2,986 
$ 17,274 
$ 225 
 4,054 
$ 25,977 
$ 1,767 
Residential mortgage:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  65 $ 11,662 
$ 3  25 $ 8,795 
$ (40)
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 442 
   58,344 
   384 
 482 
   65,336 
   1,394 
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 458 
   39,813 
   1,345 
 583 
   45,193 
   4,854 
  Other 
 17    1,837 
   39  15    1,836 
   81 Total Residential mortgage 
 982 
$ 111,656 $ 1,771 
 1,105 
$ 121,160 $ 6,289 
First-lien home equity:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  134 
$ 12,244 
$ 1,149 
 222 
$ 28,381 
$ 4,424 
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 279 
   19,280 
   (1,084)
 130 
   10,468 
   (49)
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 257 
   14,987 
   748 
 188 
   8,317 
   4,244 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
Total First-lien home equity 
 670 
$ 46,511 
$ 813 
 540 
$ 47,166 
$ 8,619 
Junior-lien home equity:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  25 $ 1,179 
$ 190 
 60 $ 3,023 
$ 494 
  Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 1,491 
   55,389 
   (5,431)
 390 
   15,040 
   (432)
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 1,564 
   15,303 
   33,623 
 1,241 
   13,347 
   18,564 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
 7    288 
   --- 
Total Junior-lien home equity 
 3,080 
$ 71,871 
$ 28,382 
 1,698 
$ 31,698 
$ 18,626 
Other consumer:
(3)                         Interest rate reduction
  5 $ 306 
$ 48  14 $ 305 
$ 32   Amortization or maturity date 
change 
 11    117 
   5  27    2,150 
   (111)
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 36    565 
   29  14    198 
   --- 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
 --- 
   --- 
   --- 
Total Other consumer 
 52 $ 988 
$ 82  55 $ 2,653 
$ (79)
Total new troubled debt 
restructurings
  8,214 
$ 565,525 $ 40,896 
 7,974 
$ 597,425 $ 38,747 
(1) 
TDRs may include multiple concessions and 
the disclosure classifications are based on the primary concession provided to the 
borrower. 
(2) 
Amounts represent the financial impact via provision (recovery) 
for loan and lease losses as a result of the modification. 
(3) 
Post-modification balances approximate pre
-modification balances.  The aggregate am
ount of charge-offs as a result of a 
restructuring are not significant. 
132 
 The following table presents TDRs that have redefaulted 
within one year of modification during the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
     Troubled Debt Restructurings That Have Redefaulted
     Within One Year of Modification During The Year Ended
    December 31, 2013
(1)December 31, 2012
(1) (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Number of
 Ending 
Number of 
Ending 
  Contracts Balance Contracts 
Balance C&I - Owner occupied:
               Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 4$ 1,390 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 10    1,144 
 13   2,380 
  Other 
 7    1,221 
 ---
   --- 
Total C&I - Owner occupied 
 17 $ 2,365 
 17$ 3,770 
C&I - Other commercial and industrial:
              Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 3$ 401 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 17    476 
 14   609 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 3   387 
Total C&I - Other commercial and industrial 
 17 $ 476 
 20$ 1,397 
CRE - Retail Properties:
              Interest rate reduction 
 1 $ 302 
 ---
$ --- 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 4    993 
 3   372 
  Other 
 1    186 
 ---
   --- 
Total CRE - Retail properties 
 6 $ 1,481 
 3$ 372 
CRE - Multi family:
              Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 2$ 1,236 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 2    225 
 2   343 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 ---
   --- 
Total CRE - Multi family 
 2 $ 225 
 4$ 1,579 
CRE - Office:              Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 ---
$ --- 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 2    1,131 
 ---
   --- 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 ---
   --- 
Total CRE - Office  2 $ 1,131 
 ---
$ --- 
CRE - Industrial and Warehouse:
              Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 ---
$ --- 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 1    361 
 1   413 
  Other 
 1    726 
 ---
   --- 
Total CRE - Industrial and Warehouse 
 2 $ 1,087 
 1$ 413 
CRE - Other commercial real estate:
              Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 1$ 898 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 4    774 
 4   646 
  Other 
 1    5  ---
   --- 
Total CRE - Other commercial real estate 
 5 $ 779 
 5$ 1,544 
Automobile:
              Interest rate reduction 
 1 $ 112 
 4$ --- 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 37    380 
 132   69   Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 137 
   617 
 34   149 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 ---
   --- 
Total Automobile 
 175 
$ 1,109 
 170$ 218 
133 
 Residential mortgage:
              Interest rate reduction 
 4 $ 424 
 2$ 61   Amortization or maturity date change 
 78    11,263 
 100   13,574 
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 71    6,647 
 30   4,085 
  Other 
 2    418 
 7   804 
Total Residential mortgage 
 155 
$ 18,752 
 139$ 18,524 
First-lien home equity:
              Interest rate reduction 
 1 $ 87  11$ 932 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 6    629 
 5   503 
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 16    1,235 
 2   124 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 ---
   --- 
Total First-lien home equity 
 23 $ 1,951 
 18$ 1,559 
Junior-lien home equity:
              Interest rate reduction 
 1 $ --- 
 2$ 112 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 9    478 
 3   99   Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 40    718 
 7   30   Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 ---
   --- 
Total Junior-lien home equity 
 50 $ 1,196 
 12$ 241 
Other consumer:
              Interest rate reduction 
 --- 
$ --- 
 1$ --- 
  Amortization or maturity date change 
 --- 
   --- 
 3   --- 
  Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
 3    96  ---
   --- 
  Other 
 --- 
   --- 
 ---
   --- 
Total Other consumer 
 3 $ 96  4$ --- 
Total troubled debt restructurings with 
subsequent redefault
  457 
$ 30,648 
 393$ 29,617 
(1) 
Subsequent redefault is defined as a payment redefault 
within 12 months of the restructuring date.  Payment 
redefault is defined as 90-days past 
due for any loan in any po
rtfolio or class.  Any lo
an in any portfolio may 
be considered to be in payment redefault prior to 
the guidelines noted above when collection of principal or 
interest is in doubt. Pledged Loans and Leases 
The Bank has access to the Federal Reserve™s discount window and advances from the FHLB Œ Cincinnati.  At December 31, 
2013, these borrowings and advances are secured by $19.8 billion of loans. 
 4.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES
  Contractual maturities of available-for-sale and other s
ecurities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were: 
      2013 
    2012  
     Amortized 
  Fair      Amortized 
  Fair  (dollar amounts in thousands)
   Cost
   Value 
    Cost   Value 
Under 1 year 
$ 263,366  $ 262,752   $  60,054 
 $ 60,651 
1 - 5 years 
  1,665,644   1,697,234      1,961,217    2,005,022 6 - 10 years 
  1,440,056   1,433,303      1,170,807    1,208,054 Over 10 years 
  3,662,328   3,577,502      3,989,977    3,967,196 Other securities: 
                  Nonmarketable equity securities 
  320,991   320,991      308,075    308,075   Marketable equity securities 
  16,522 
  16,971 
     16,877 
   17,177 
Total available-for-sale
 and other securities
 $ 7,368,907  $ 7,308,753   $  7,507,007  $ 7,566,175    134 
 Other securities at December 31, 2013 and 2012 include nonmarketable equity securities of $165.6 million of stock issued by the
 FHLB of Cincinnati, none and $3.5 million, respectively, of stock 
issued by the FHLB of Indianapolis, and $155.4 million and $1
39.0 
million, of Federal Reserve Bank stock, 
respectively. Nonmarketable equity securities 
are recorded at amortized cost.   Other 
securities also include marketable equity securities. 
 The following tables provide amortized cost
, fair value, and gross unrea
lized gains and losses recogni
zed in OCI by investment 
category at December 31, 2013 and 2012: 
          Unrealized
         Amortized 
  Gross 
    Gross 
  Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  Cost
   Gains 
    Losses 
  Value 
December 31, 2013 
      
              U.S. Treasury
 $ 51,301 
 $ 303 
  $  --- 
 $ 51,604 
Federal agencies: 
                   Mortgage-backed securities   3,562,444    42,319 
     (38,542)
   3,566,221   Other agencies 
  313,877    6,105 
     (94)
   319,888 Total U.S. government backed securities 
  3,927,622    48,727 
     (38,636)
   3,937,713 Municipal securities (1)   1,140,263    18,825 
     (13,096)
   1,145,992 Private-label CMO 
  51,238 
   1,188 
     (3,322)
   49,104 
Asset-backed securities  
  1,172,284    6,771 
     (88,015)
   1,091,040 Covered bonds 
  280,595    5,279 
     --- 
   285,874 Corporate debt 
  455,493    11,241 
     (9,494)
   457,240 Other securities 
  341,412    511 
     (133)
   341,790 Total available-for-sale
 and other securities
 $ 7,368,907  $ 92,542 
  $  (152,696)
 $ 7,308,753           Unrealized
         Amortized 
  Gross 
    Gross 
  Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  Cost
   Gains 
    Losses 
  Value 
December 31, 2012 
      
              U.S. Treasury
 $ 51,620 
 $ 691 
  $  --- 
 $ 52,311 
Federal agencies: 
                   Mortgage-backed securities  4,149,964    114,984      (278)
   4,264,670   Other agencies 
 348,846    10,781 
     (1)
   359,626 Total U.S. government backed securities 
  4,550,430    126,456      (279)
   4,676,607 Municipal securities   489,080    13,927 
     (2,007)
   501,000 Private-label CMO 
  75,557 
   1,087 
     (5,076)
   71,568 
Asset-backed securities (2)   1,126,315    16,287 
     (113,519)
   1,029,083 Covered bonds 
  282,080    8,545 
     --- 
   290,625 Corporate debt 
  654,693    15,301 
     (1,852)
   668,142 Other securities 
  328,852    333 
     (35)
   329,150 Total available-for-sale and other securities 
$ 7,507,007  $ 181,936   $  (122,768)
 $ 7,566,175 (1) Effective December 31, 2013 approximately 
$600.4 million of dir
ect purchase municipal instrumen
ts were reclassified from C&
I loans to available-for-sale securities. (2) Amounts at December 31, 2012 include securities backed by automobile loans with a fair value of $3 million which meet the 
eligibility requirements for the Term Asset-B
acked Securities Loan Facility, admini
stered by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
   135 
 The following tables provide detail on invest
ment securities with unrealized losses ag
gregated by investment category and the 
length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous loss position, at December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
       Less than 12 Months
 Over 12 Months    Total
      Fair 
  Unrealized 
  Fair 
  Unrealized 
    Fair  Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
   Value   Losses 
  Value 
  Losses 
    Value  Losses 
December 31, 2013 
               
              U.S. Treasury 
$  --- 
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  --- 
 $ --- 
Federal Agencies: 
                            Mortgage-backed securities    1,628,454    (37,174)
   12,682 
   (1,368)
     1,641,136    (38,542)
  Other agencies 
   2,069 
   (94)
   --- 
   --- 
     2,069 
   (94)
Total U.S. Government backed securities 
   1,630,523    (37,268)
   12,682 
   (1,368)
     1,643,205    (38,636)
Municipal securities    551,114    (12,395)
   7,531 
   (701)
     558,645    (13,096)
Private label CMO 
   --- 
   --- 
   22,639 
   (3,322)
     22,639 
   (3,322)
Asset-backed securities    391,665    (9,720)
   107,419    (78,295)
     499,084    (88,015)
Corporate debt 
   146,308    (7,729)
   26,155 
   (1,765)
     172,463    (9,494)
Other securities 
   3,078 
   (72)
   2,530 
   (61)
     5,608 
   (133)
Total temporarily impaired securities
 $  2,722,688  $ (67,184)
 $ 178,956  $ (85,512)
  $  2,901,644  $ (152,696)
       Less than 12 Months
 Over 12 Months    Total
      Fair 
  Unrealized 
  Fair 
  Unrealized 
    Fair  Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
   Value   Losses 
  Value 
  Losses 
    Value  Losses 
December 31, 2012 
               
              U.S. Treasury 
$  --- 
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  --- 
 $ --- 
Federal Agencies 
                            Mortgage-backed securities    44,836 
   (278)
   --- 
   --- 
     44,836 
   (278)
  Other agencies 
   801 
   (1)
   --- 
   --- 
     801 
   (1)
Total U.S. Government backed securities 
   45,637 
   (279)
   --- 
   --- 
     45,637 
   (279)
Municipal securities    51,316 
   (2,007)
   --- 
   --- 
     51,316 
   (2,007)
Private label CMO 
   22,793 
   --- 
   34,617 
   (5,076)
     57,410 
   (5,076)
Asset-backed securities    28,089 
   (73)
   108,660    (113,446)
     136,749    (113,519)
Corporate debt 
   138,792    (1,472)
   119,620    (380)
     258,412    (1,852)
Other securities 
   --- 
   --- 
   1,630 
   (35)
     1,630 
   (35)
Total temporarily impaired securities 
$  286,627  $ (3,831)
 $ 264,527  $ (118,937)
  $  551,154  $ (122,768)
 At December 31, 2013, the carrying value of investment securities pledged to secure public and trust deposits, trading account 
liabilities, U.S. Treasury demand notes, and security repurchase agreements totaled $2.6 billion. There were no securities of a
 single 
issuer, which are not governmental or government-sponsored, that exceeded 10% of shareholders™ equity at December 31, 2013.  
 The following table is a summary of realized securities gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011:
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
     2012  
  2011  
  Gross gains on sales of securities 
$ 2,932 
  $  8,612
 $ 18,641 
  Gross (losses) on sales of securities 
  (712)
     (2,224)
   (14,959)
Net gain (loss) on sales of securities
 $ 2,220 
  $  6,388
 $ 3,682 
 Collateralized Debt Obligations and 
Private-Label CMO Securities  Our highest risk segments of our investme
nt portfolio are the CDO and 2003-2006 vintag
e private-label CMO portfolios.  Of the 
$49.1 million of the private-label CMO securities reported at fair value at December 31, 2013, approximately $20.4 million are 
rated 
below investment grade.  The CDOs are in th
e asset-backed securities portfolio.  These segments are in run-off, and we have not
 purchased these types of securities since 
2008.  The performance of 
the underlying securities in each of these segments reflect
s the deterioration of CDO issuers and 200
3 to 2006 non-agency mortgages.  Each of these 
securities in these two segments is subjecte
d to a rigorous review of its projected cash flows.  These reviews ar
e supported with analysis from independent third parties. 
 136 
 The following table presents th
e credit ratings for our CDO and private label CMO securities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: 
 Credit Ratings of Selected Investment Securities
            (dollar amounts in thousands)
     Average Credit Rating of Fair Value Amount (1)  
    Amortized
                          Cost   Fair Value
  AAA 
  AA +/-   A +/-   BBB +/-  <BBB-   Private-label CMO securities 
$ 51,238 
$  49,104 
$  16,964$  --- $  --- $  11,785 
$  20,355  Collateralized debt obligations 
 161,730 
 84,136 
 --- ---  17,855 
 ---  66,281Total at December 31, 2013 
$ 212,968 
$  133,240 
$  16,964$  --- $  17,855 
$  11,785 
$  86,636Total at December 31, 2012
 $ 299,029 
$  181,606 
$  22,793$  25,742 
$  35,763 
$  3,801 
$  93,507(1)  Credit ratings reflect the lowest current rating assigned by a nationally recognized credit rating agency. 
 Negative changes to the above credit ratings would generally result in an increase of our risk-weighted assets, and a reduction
 to 
our regulatory capital ratios. 
 The fair values of the private label CMO and CDO assets ha
ve been impacted by various 
market conditions.  The unrealized 
losses were primarily the result of wider 
liquidity spreads on asset-
backed securities and incr
eased market volatility on non-a
gency 
mortgage and asset-backed securities th
at are collateralized by certain mortgage loan
s.  In addition, the 
expected average live
s of the 
asset-backed securities backed by trust-preferred securities have been extended, due to changes in the expectations of when the
 underlying securities would be repaid.  The contractual terms and / or cash flo
ws of the investments do not
 permit the issuer t
o settle the securities at a price less than the amor
tized cost. Huntington does not intend to 
sell, nor does it believe it will be requ
ired to sell 
these securities until the fair value is recove
red, which may be maturity and; therefore,
 does not consider them to be other-th
an-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2013. 

 The following table summarizes
 the relevant characteristics of our CDO securities
 portfolio, which are included in asset-backed
 securities, at December 31, 2013 and 2012.  Each security is pa
rt of a pool of issuers and supports a more senior tranche of se
curities except for the I-Pre TSL II, and MM Comm III securities which are the most senior class.  
 Collateralized Debt Obligation Securities Data
                    (dollar amounts in thousands)
        Actual                                Deferrals 
  Expected                            and   Defaults                          # of Issuers Defaults   as a % of 
                       Lowest 
Currently as a % of 
  Remaining            Amortized 
Fair 
Unrealized
Credit Performing/ 
Original 
  Performing
 Excess  Deal Name Par Value 
Cost 
Value Loss (2) Rating (3)Remaining (4)Collateral 
  Collateral
Subordination (5)
Alesco II (1)
 $ 41,646 $ 29,629 $ 12,756 $(16,873)C   
29/33  10 % 9 % ---%ICONS 
  20,000   20,000   15,208  (4,792)BB  21/22  3    14    52  I-Pre TSL II 
  20,059   20,009   17,855  (2,154)A  21/23  5    10    78  MM Comm III   5,669   5,417   4,007  (1,410)BB  5/9  5    9    33  Pre TSL IX  
  5,000   3,955   1,955  (2,000)C  29/43  20    13    4  Pre TSL XI (1) 
  25,000   21,098   8,130  (12,968)C  41/60  28    15    ---  Pre TSL XIII (1) 
  28,045   21,274   10,996  (10,278)C  43/61  29    23    4  Reg Diversified (1) 
  25,500   6,908   589  (6,319)D  23/42  40    12    ---  Soloso (1)   12,500   2,440   138  (2,302)C  36/63  32    23    ---  Tropic III 
  31,000   31,000   12,502  (18,498)CCC  25/40  26    14    38  Total at December 31, 2013
 $ 214,419 $ 161,730 $ 84,136 $(77,594)               Total at December 31, 2012 
$ 266,863 $ 195,760 $ 84,296 $(111,464)                (1)  Security was determined to have OTTI.  As such, the book value is net of recorded credit impairment. 
(2)  The majority of securities have been in a continuous loss position for 12 months or longer. 
(3)  For purposes of comparability, the lowest credit rating expressed is equivalent to Fitch ratings even where the lowest rating i
s based on another 
nationally recognized credit rating agency. 
(4)  Includes both banks and/or insurance companies. 
(5)  Excess subordination percentage represents the additional defaults in excess of both current and projected defaults that the CD
O can absorb before 
the bond experiences credit impairment.  Excess subordinated percentage is calculated by (a) determining what percentage of def
aults a deal can 
experience before the bond has credit impairment, and (b) subtracting from this default breakage percentage both total current 
and expected future 
default percentages. 
 137 
 Security Impairment 
        Huntington evaluated OTTI on 
the debt security types listed below.   
 Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label 
CMO securities are collateralized by first-lien
 residential mortgage loans.  The 
securities are valued by a third party pricing specialist using a 
discounted cash flow approach 
and proprietary pricing model. 
 The 
model uses inputs such as estimated prepayment speeds, losses
, recoveries, default rates that are implied by the underlying 
performance of collateral in the structure or similar structures,
 discount rates that are implied by market prices for similar 
securities, collateral structure types, and house price depreciation / ap
preciation rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts.  
 Collateralized Debt Obligations are CDOs backed
 by a pool of debt securities issued 
by financial institutions.  The collateral 
generally consists of trust-pref
erred securities and subordinated de
bt securities issued by bank
s, bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies.  A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within 
this 
portfolio.  A third party pricing specialist with
 direct industry experience in pooled
-trust-preferred security evaluations is 
engaged to 
provide assistance estimating the fair value and expected cash flows on this portfolio. The full cash flow analysis is complete
d by 
evaluating the relevant credit and structural aspects of each pooled-trust-preferred security in the portfolio, including colla
teral performance projections for each piece of collateral in the security and terms of the security™s structure. The credit review i
ncludes an 
analysis of profitability, credit quality, operating efficiency, lev
erage, and liquidity using available financial and regulato
ry 
information for each underlying collateral issuer. The analysis also includes a review of historical industry default data, cur
rent/near term operating conditions, and the impact of 
macroeconomic and regulatory changes.  Using
 the results of our analysis, we estim
ate appropriate default and recovery probabilities for each piece of collateral then estimate the expected cash flows for each secu
rity. The cumulative probability of default range
s from a low of 1% to 100%.   
 
Many collateral issuers have the option of deferring interest payments 
on their debt for up to five
 years.  For issuers who are
 deferring interest, assumptions are made regarding the issuers ab
ility to resume interest payments and make the required princi
pal 
payment at maturity; the cumulative probability 
of default for these issuers currently 
ranges from 1% to 100%, and a 10% recove
ry 
assumption.  The fair value of each security is obtained by discounting the expected cash flows at a market discount rate, rang
ing from 
LIBOR plus 3.5% to LIBOR plus 15.3% as of December 31, 2013.  The market discount rate is determined by reference to yields 
observed in the market for similarly rated collateralized debt
 obligations, specifically high-y
ield collateralized loan obligat
ions.  The 
relatively high market discount rate is re
flective of the uncertainty of the cash fl
ows and illiquid nature of these securities
.  The large 
differential between the fair value and amortized cost of some of
 the securities reflects the hi
gh market discount rate and the
 expectation that the majority of the cash flows will not be received 
until near the final maturity of the security (the final m
aturities range from 2032 to 2035). 
 
On December 10, 2013, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, the CFTC and the SEC issued final rules to implement the 
Volcker Rule contained in section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, gene
rally to become effective on Ju
ly 21, 2015.  The Volcker Rule 
prohibits an insured depository institution 
and its affiliates (referred to as ﬁbanking
 entitiesﬂ) from: (i) engaging in ﬁpropr
ietary tradingﬂ and (ii) investing in or sponso
ring certain types of funds 
(ﬁcovered fundsﬂ) subject to certain limited exceptions.  T
hese prohibitions impact the ability of U.
S. banking entities to provide investment ma
nagement products and services that are compet
itive with nonbanking firms generally and with 
non-U.S. banking organizations in overseas markets. The rule also effectively prohibit
s short-term trading strategies by any U.S. banking entity if thos
e strategies involve instruments 
other than those specifically 
permitted 
for trading. 
 On January 14, 2014, the five federal agen
cies approved an interim final rule to 
permit banking entities to retain interests in
 certain collateralized debt obligations 
backed primarily by trust preferred secu
rities from the investment prohibitions of sect
ion 619 of 
the Volcker Rule.  Under the interim fina
l rule, the agencies permit th
e retention of an interest in
 or sponsorship of covered 
funds by banking entities if certain qualifications are met.  In addition, th
e agencies released a non-exclusive list of issuers that me
et the requirements of the interim final rule.  At December 31, 2013
, we had investments in ten different pools of trust preferred 
securities.  Eight of our pools are included 
in the list of non-exclusive issuers.  We
 have analyzed the ICONS and I-Pre TSL II
 pools that were not included on the list and believe that it is more likely
 than not that we will be ab
le to hold these securities to
 recovery under the final Volcker Rule regulations. 
   138 
 For the periods ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the following table summarizes by security type, the total OTTI losses 
recognized in the Consolidated Statemen
ts of Income for securities evaluated for impairment as described above: 
      Year ended December 31, 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
    2012 
  2011 
 Available-for-sale and other securities: 
                Alt-A Mortgage-backed 
$ --- 
  $  --- 
 $ (361)
   Collateralized Debt Obligations   (1,466)
     --- 
   (3,798)
   Private label CMO 
  (336)
     (1,614)
   (2,550)
   Total debt securities 
  (1,802)
     (1,614)
   (6,709)
   Equity securities   --- 
     (5)
   (654)
 Total available-for-sale and other securities
 $ (1,802)
  $  (1,619)
 $ (7,363)
  The following table rolls 
forward the OTTI recognized in earnings on debt 
securities held by Huntington for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012 as follows: 
     Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013  
  2012  
Balance, beginning of year
 $  49,433 
 $ 56,764 
  Reductions from sales 
  (20,366)
   (8,945)
  Credit losses not pre
viously recognized   --- 
   --- 
  Additional credit losses 
  1,802 
   1,614 
Balance, end of year
 $  30,869 
 $ 49,433 
 As of December 31, 2013, Management has evaluated all other investment securities with unrealized losses and all nonmarketable 
securities for impairment and concluded 
no additional OTTI is required.   
 5.  HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES
  These are debt securities that Huntington
 has the intent and ab
ility to hold until maturity. The 
debt securities are carried at
 amortized cost and adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the interest method.  
 During 2013 and 2012, Huntington transferred $292.2 million and $278.7 million, respectively of federal agencies, mortgage-
backed securities and other agency secu
rities from the available-for-sale securities portfo
lio to the held-to-maturity securiti
es portfolio. 
At the time of the transfer, $0
.0 million and $0.1 million, 
respectively of unrealized net gains were recognized in OCI.  The a
mounts 
in OCI will be recognized in earnings over the remaining life 
of the securities as an offset to 
the adjustment of yield in a ma
nner consistent with the amortization of the prem
ium on the same transferred securities, resu
lting in an immaterial impact on net in
come. 
 Additionally, during 2013 and 20
12, Huntington purchased additio
nal federal agencies, mortgage-b
acked securities and municipal 
securities, which were classified directly 
into the held-to-maturity portfolio. 
 Listed below are the contractual maturities (under 1 year, 1-5 year
s, 6-10 years, and over 10 years) of held-to-maturity securi
ties at December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
 139 
        December 31, 2013
     December 31, 2012 
       Amortized 
Fair     Amortized 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 Cost 
Value 
    Cos
t Fair Value   Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities: 
             Under 1 year 
$ ---
$ ---
  $  ---
$ ---
    1-5 years 
  ---
 ---
     ---
 ---
    6-10 years 
  24,901 
 22,549 
     24,901 
 24,739 
    Over 10 years 
  3,574,156  3,506,018      1,624,483  1,672,702   Total Federal agencies: mort
gage-backed securities  3,599,057  3,528,567     1,649,384 
1,697,441 
  Other agencies: 
         Under 1 year 
  ---
 ---
     ---
 ---
    1-5 years 
  ---
 ---
     ---
 ---
    6-10 years 
  38,588 
 39,075 
     15,108 
 15,338 
    Over 10 years 
  189,999  185,097      69,399 
 71,341 
  Total other agencies 
  228,587  224,172     84,507 86,679 Total U.S. Government backed agencies 
  3,827,644  3,752,739      1,733,891  1,784,120 Municipal securities: 
       Under 1 year 
  ---
 ---
     ---
 ---
  1-5 years 
  ---
 ---
     ---
 ---
  6-10 years 
 ---
 ---
     ---
 ---
  Over 10 years 
  9,023 
 8,159 
     9,985 
 9,985 
Total municipal securities 
  9,023 
 8,159 
     9,985 
 9,985 
Total held-to-maturity securities 
$3,836,667 
$3,760,898 
  $1,743,876 
$1,794,105 
 The following table prov
ides amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value by investment category at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012: 
          Unrealized
         Amortized 
  Gross 
    Gross 
  Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  Cost
   Gains 
    Losses 
  Value 
December 31, 2013 
      
              Federal Agencies:
                    Mortgage-backed securities $ 3,599,057  $ 5,573 
  $  (76,063)
 $ 3,528,567   Other agencies 
  228,587    776 
     (5,191)
   224,172 Total U.S. Government 
                   backed securities   3,827,644    6,349 
     (81,254)
   3,752,739 Municipal securities   9,023 
   --- 
     (864)
   8,159 
Total held-to-maturity securities 
$ 3,836,667  $ 6,349 
  $  (82,118)
 $ 3,760,898                    Unrealized
         Amortized 
  Gross 
    Gross 
  Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  Cost
   Gains 
    Losses 
  Value 
December 31, 2012 
      
              Federal Agencies:
                    Mortgage-backed securities $ 1,649,384  $ 48,219 
  $  (162)
 $ 1,697,441   Other agencies 
  84,507 
   2,172 
     --- 
   86,679 
Total U.S. Government 
                   backed securities   1,733,891    50,391 
     (162)
   1,784,120 Municipal securities   9,985 
   --- 
     --- 
   9,985 
Total held-to-maturity securities 
$ 1,743,876  $ 50,391 
  $  (162)
 $ 1,794,105    140 
 The following tables provide detail on HTM s
ecurities with unrealized losses aggregated
 by investment category and the length o
f time the individual securities have 
been in a continuous loss positio
n, at December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
       Less than 12 Months
 Over 12 Months    Total
      Fair 
  Unrealized 
  Fair 
  Unrealized 
    Fair  Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
   Value   Losses 
  Value 
  Losses 
    Value  Losses 
December 31, 2013 
               
              Federal Agencies: 
                             Mortgage-backed securities 
$  2,849,198  $ (73,711)
 $ 22,548 
 $ (2,352)
  $  2,871,746  $ (76,063)
  Other agencies 
   144,417    (5,191)
   --- 
   --- 
     144,417    (5,191)
Total U.S. Government backed securities 
   2,993,615    (78,902)
   22,548 
   (2,352)
     3,016,163    (81,254)
Municipal securities    8,159 
   (864)
   --- 
   --- 
     8,159 
   (864)
Total temporarily impaired securities
 $  3,001,774  $ (79,766)
 $ 22,548 
 $ (2,352)
  $  3,024,322  $ (82,118)
      Less than 12 Months
 Over 12 Months    Total
      Fair 
  Unrealized 
  Fair 
  Unrealized 
    Fair  Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
   Value   Losses 
  Value 
  Losses 
    Value  Losses 
December 31, 2012 
               
              Federal Agencies: 
                            Mortgage-backed securities $  24,739 
 $ (162)
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  24,739 
 $ (162)
Total U.S. Government backed securities 
   24,739 
   (162)
   --- 
   --- 
     24,739 
   (162)
Total temporarily impaired securities
 $  24,739 
 $ (162)
 $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  24,739 
 $ (162)
 Security Impairment 
 Huntington evaluates the held-to-maturity 
securities portfolio on a quarterly basis for 
impairment.  Impairment would exist whe
n the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis at the balance sheet 
date.  Under 
these circumstances, any impairment would be recognized in earnings. As of December 31, 2013, Management has evaluated held-to-
maturity securities with unrealized losses for 
impairment and concluded no OTTI is required. 
 6.  LOAN SALES AND SECURITIZATIONS 
  Residential Mortgage Portfolio 
 The following table summarizes
 activity relating to residential mortgage loans so
ld with servicing retained for the years ended
 December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
      Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
     2011 
 Residential mortgage loans so
ld with servicing retained 
$ 3,221,239 $ 3,954,762   $  3,078,475 Pretax gains  (1) 
  102,935   128,408      77,591 
(1)
 Recorded in mortgage banking income. 
  141 
 The following tables summarize the changes in MSRs recorded usin
g either the fair value method 
or the amortization method for 
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: 
 Fair Value Method
         (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 Fair value, beginning of year 
$  35,202 
 $ 65,001 
Change in fair value during the period due to: 
     Time decay (1) 
   (2,648)
 (2,881)
  Payoffs (2) 
   (11,851)
 (14,389)
  Changes in valuation in
puts or assumptions (3) 
   13,533 
 (12,529)
Fair value, end of year 
$  34,236 
 $ 35,202 
Weighted-average life (years) 
   4.2 
  3.2 
(1) 
Represents decrease in value due to passage of time, including th
e impact from both regularly scheduled loan principal payments
 and partial loan paydowns. 
(2) 
Represents decrease in value associated with loans that paid off during the period. 
(3) 
Represents change in value 
resulting primarily from market-dr
iven changes in interest ra
tes and prepayment speeds. 
            Amortization Method
         (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 Carrying value, beginning of year 
$  85,545 
 $ 72,434 
New servicing assets create
d    34,743 
 36,123 
Impairment recovery (charge) 
   22,023 
 (4,374)
Amortization and other 
   (14,247)
 (18,638)
Carrying value, end of year 
$  128,064  $ 85,545 
Fair value, end of year 
$  143,304  $ 85,612 
Weighted-average life (years) 
   6.8 
  3.3 
 MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily obse
rvable prices.  While sales of MSRs occur, the precise terms and 
conditions are typically not readily available
.  Therefore, the fair value of MSRs is estimated using a discounted future cash 
flow model.  The model considers portfolio characteristics, contractu
ally specified servicing fees and assumptions related to prepay
ments, 
delinquency rates, late charges, other anc
illary revenues, costs to service, and othe
r economic factors.  Changes in the assump
tions used may have a significant impact on the valuation of MSRs. 
 MSR values are very sensitive to movements in interest rates as 
expected future net servicing income depends on the projected 
outstanding principal balances of the underly
ing loans, which can be greatly impacted by
 the level of prepayments.  Huntington 
hedges the value of certain MSRs against changes in value attributable to changes in interest rates using a combination of deri
vative instruments and trading securities.   

 For MSRs under the fair value method, a summary of key assumpti
ons and the sensitivity of the MSR value to changes in these 
assumptions at December 31, 2013, and 2012 follows: 
     December 31, 2013 
 December 31, 2012 
          Decline in fair value due 
to 
         Decline in fair value due 
to 
          10% 
  20% 
         10% 
  20% 
          adverse 
  adverse 
         adverse 
  adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Actual 
  change 
  change 
 Actual 
    change 
  change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
    11.90 
%  $ (1,935)
 $ (3,816)
 19.52 
%   $  (2,608)
 $ (5,051)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates 
   1,069 
bps   (1,376)
   (2,753)
 1,288 
bps 
     (1,290)
   (2,580)
   142 
 For MSRs under the amortization method, a summary of key assump
tions and the sensitivity of 
the MSR value to changes in 
these assumptions at December 31, 2013 and 2012 follows:  
     December 31, 2013 
 December 31, 2012 
          Decline in fair value due 
to 
         Decline in fair value due 
to 
          10% 
  20% 
         10% 
  20% 
          adverse 
  adverse 
         adverse 
  adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Actual 
  change 
  change 
 Actual 
    change 
  change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
    6.70 
%  $ (6,813)
 $ (12,977)
 15.45 
%   $  (4,936)
 $ (9,451)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates 
   940 
bps   (6,027)
   (12,054)
 940 
bps 
     (3,060)
   (6,119)
 Total servicing fees included in mortgage banking income amounted to $43.8 million, $46.2 million, and $49.1 million in 2013, 
2012, and 2011, respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans servi
ced for third parties was $15.2 
billion, 
$15.6 billion, and $15.9 billion at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  
 Automobile Portfolio The following table summarizes 
activity relating to automobile loans sold and/or 
securitized with serv
icing retained for the ye
ars ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 (1)
   2012 
     2011 
 Automobile loans sold with servicing retained 
$ --- 
$ 169,324   $  --- 
Automobile loans securitized with servicing retained 
  --- 
  2,300,018      1,020,146 Pretax gains (2) 
  --- 
  42,251 
     15,454 
(1)
 Huntington did not sell or securitize any automobile loans in 2013. 
(2) 
Recorded in non
interest income 
 Huntington has retained servicing responsibilities on sold automobile loans and receives annual servicing fees and other ancill
ary fees on the outstanding loan balances.  
Automobile loan servicing righ
ts are accounted for using 
the amortization method.  A se
rvicing 
asset is established at fair value at the time of the sale using a di
scounted future cash flow m
odel.  The model considers assu
mptions 
related to actual servicing income, adequate 
compensation for servicing, 
and other ancillary fees. The 
servicing asset is then amortized 
against servicing income.  Impair
ment, if any, is recognized when carrying value exceeds the fair value as determined by calcul
ating the present value of expected net future cash flows.  The primary risk characteristic for measuring servicing assets is payoff 
rates of the underlying loan pools.  Valuation calcul
ations rely on the predicted payoff assumptio
n and, if actual payoff is quicker tha
n expected, then future value would be impaired.  
  Changes in the carrying value of 
automobile loan servicing 
rights for the years ended December
 31, 2013 and 2012, and the fair 
value at the end of each period were as follows: 
              (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 Carrying value, beginning of year 
$  35,606 
  $ 13,377 
New servicing assets create
d    --- 
 38,043 
Impairment charge 
   --- 
 (75)
Amortization and other 
   (17,934)
 (15,739)
Carrying value, end of year 
$  17,672 
  $ 35,606 
Fair value, end of year 
$  18,193 
  $ 36,470 
Weighted-average life (years) 
   3.6 
   4.3 
   143 
 A summary of key assumptions and the sensitiv
ity of the automobile loan 
servicing rights value to changes in these assumptions 
at December 31, 2013 and 2012 follows: 
     December 31, 2013 
 December 31, 2012 
          Decline in fair value due 
to 
         Decline in fair value due 
to 
          10% 
  20% 
         10% 
  20% 
          adverse 
  adverse 
         adverse 
  adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Actual 
  change 
  change 
 Actual 
    change 
  change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
    14.65 
%  $ (584)
 $ (1,183)
 13.80 
%   $  (880)
 $ (1,771)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates 
   500 
bps   (7)
   (15)
 500 
bps 
     (18)
   (36)
 Servicing income, net of amortization of capitalized servicing 
assets, amounted to $10.3 million, $8.7 million, and $2.0 millio
n for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of automobile loans serviced
 for 
third parties was $1.6 billion, $2.5 billion, and $0.9 billion at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 
 Small Business Association (SBA) Portfolio 
 The following table summarizes activity relating to SBA loans sold with servicing retained for the years ended December 31, 
2013, 2012, and 2011: 
      Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
     2011 
 SBA loans sold with servicing retained 
$ 178,874 $ 209,540   $  234,803 Pretax gains resulting from above loan sales  (1) 
  19,556 
  22,916 
     21,488 
(1)
 Recorded in non
interest income 
 Huntington has retained servicing responsibilities on sold SBA loans and receives annual servicing fees on the outstanding loan
 balances.  SBA loan servicing rights are accounted for using the amortization method.  A servicing asset is established at fair
 value at 
the time of the sale using a discounted future cash flow model.
 The servicing asset is then am
ortized against servicing income.
  Impairment, if any, is recognized when carrying value exceeds the fair value as determined by calculating the present value of 
expected net future cash flows. 

 The following tables summarize the changes in the carrying value of the servicing asset for the years ended December 31, 2013 
and 2012: 

              (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 Carrying value, beginning of year 
$  15,147 
  $ 12,022 
New servicing assets create
d    6,105 
 6,947 
Amortization and other 
   (4,387)
 (3,822)
Carrying value, end of year 
$  16,865 
  $ 15,147 
Fair value, end of year 
$  16,865 
$ 15,147 
Weighted-average life (years) 
   3.5 
   3.5 
   144 
 A summary of key assumptions and the sensitivity of the SBA loan servicing rights value to changes in these assumptions at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012 follows: 
     December 31, 2013 
 December 31, 2012 
          Decline in fair value due 
to 
         Decline in fair value due 
to 
          10% 
  20% 
         10% 
  20% 
          adverse 
  adverse 
         adverse 
  adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Actual 
  change 
  change 
 Actual 
    change 
  change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
    5.90 
%  $ (221)
 $ (438)
 6.40 
%   $  (201)
 $ (398)
Discount rate    1,500 
bps   (446)
   (873)
 1,500 
bps 
     (374)
   (731)
 Servicing income, net of amortization of capitalized servicing 
assets, amounted to $6.3 million, $5.7 million, and $4.9 million
 in 
2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of SBA loans serviced for third parties was $885.4 million, $
758.3 
million and $555.5 million at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 7.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  
 Business segments are based on segment leadership structure, which reflects how segment performance is monitored and 
assessed.  No segments were significantly changed and 
no reallocation of goodwill occurred in 
either 2013 or 2012. 
 A rollforward of goodwill by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, is presented in the table below: 
      Retail &  Regional &                    Business  
Commercial          Treasury/
 Huntington  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 Banking
 Banking 
AFCRE  WGH 
    Other 
 Consolidated 
Balance, January 1, 2012 
$  286,824  $ 16,169 
 $ --- 
 $ 98,951 
  $  42,324 
 $ 444,268   Adjustments / Reallocation of goodwill 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
     --- 
   --- 
Balance, December 31, 2012 
   286,824    16,169 
   --- 
   98,951 
     42,324 
   444,268   Adjustments / Reallocation of goodwill 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  --- 
     --- 
  --- 
Balance, December 31, 2013 $  286,824  $ 16,169 
 $ --- 
 $ 98,951 
  $  42,324 
 $ 444,268  Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1st each year or whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carry
ing value may not be recoverable.  No 
impairment was recorded
 in 2013, 2012 or 
2011.    At December 31, 2013 and 2012, Huntington™s other intangible assets consisted of the following:  
        Gross       Net        Carrying
   Accumulated
  Carrying 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
  Amount
  Amortization
  Value 
         December 31, 2013
              Core deposit intangible
 $ 380,249 $  (335,552)
 $ 44,697 
   Customer relationship 
   106,974    (58,675)
   48,299 
   Other
   25,164 
   (24,967)
   197 
 Total other intangible assets
 $ 512,387 $  (419,194)
 $ 93,193 
 December 31, 2012
               Core deposit intangible
 $ 380,249 $  (302,003)
 $ 78,246 
   Customer relationship 
   104,574    (50,925)
   53,649 
   Other
   25,164 
   (24,902)
   262 
 Total other intangible assets 
$ 509,987 $  (377,830)
 $ 132,157          145 
 The estimated amortization expense of other intangibl
e assets for the next five years is as follows:
      Amortization
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  Expense 
       2014 
  $ 36,711 
2015 
    20,550 
2016 
    7,336 
2017 
    6,854 
2018 
    5,983 
 8.  PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
  Premises and equipment were comprised of the following in December 31, 2013 and 2012:  
     At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
  Land and land improvements 
$  129,543 $ 127,280 Buildings    356,555   393,674 Leasehold improvements 
   227,764   177,395 Equipment 
   669,482   690,561Total premises and equipment 
   1,383,344   1,388,910Less accumulated depreciation and amortization 
   (748,687)
  (771,653)
Net premises and equipment
 $  634,657 $ 617,257       Depreciation and amortization charged to expense and rental income credited to net occupancy expense for the three years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 were:  
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012 
   2011  
Total depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment 
$ 78,601 
  $  76,170 
 $ 70,413 
Rental income credited to occupancy expense 
  12,542 
     11,519 
   10,878 
 9.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 
  Short-term borrowings at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were comprised of the following:  
     At December 31,  
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
  2012 
 Federal funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
$  548,605   $ 575,899   Other borrowings 
   3,538 
   13,915 
  Total short-term borrowings
 $  552,143   $ 589,814    Other borrowings consist of borrowings from the Treasury and other notes payable. 
   146 
 For each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, weighted average interest rate at year-end, the maximum 
balance for the year, the average balance for the year, and weighted average interest rate for the year by category of short-te
rm 
borrowings was as follows: 
          (dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
    2012
   2011 
  Weighted average interest rate at year-end 
                 Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
  0.06 
%    0.15
%  0.17 
%  Other short-term borrowings 
  2.59 
     1.98
    2.74 
  Maximum amount outstanding at month-end during the year
                  Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
$787,127 
$ 1,590,082
$2,430,992 
  Other short-term borrowings 
 19,497 26,07186,262 Average amount outstanding during the year
                   Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
$692,481 
$ 1,293,348
$2,009,039 
  Other short-term borrowings 
 7,815 
16,98346,245 Weighted average interest rate during the year
                   Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
  0.08 
%    0.14
%  0.16 
%  Other short-term borrowings 
  1.79 
     1.36
    0.59 
   10.  FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES 
  Huntington™s advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank had weighted average interest rates of 0.12% and 0.18% at December 
31, 2013 and 2012, resp
ectively. These advances, which predominantly had va
riable interest rates, were collateralized by qualif
ying 
real estate loans. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, Huntington
™s maximum borrowing capacity 
was $4.8 billion and $4.0 billion,
 respectively.  The advances outstanding at December 31, 2013 of $1.8 billion mature as follows: $1.8 billion in 2014; and less 
than 
$0.1 billion in 2018 and thereafter.  
 11.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT 
 Huntington™s other long-term debt consisted of the following:  
       At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 2.60% Huntington Bancshares Incorporated senior note due 2018 
$   397,306  $  --- 
1.30% Huntington National Bank senior note due 2016 
   497,317    --- 
1.35% Huntington National Bank senior note due 2016 
   349,858    --- 
4.95% Huntington National Bank
 medium-term notes due 2018 
   39,497 
   41,557 
0.88% Securitization trust 
notes payable due 2018(2) 
 --- 
   2,086 
2.52% Class B preferred securities 
of subsidiary, no maturity (1) 
 65,000 
   65,000 
7.88% Class C preferred securities of subsidiary, no maturity 
 --- 
   50,000 
Other 
 141 
   141 
Total other long-term debt
 $  1,349,119  $  158,784 (1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2013, based on one month LIBOR + 2.35 or 2.52%. 
(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2012, based on one month LIBOR + 0.67 or 0.88%. 
 Amounts above are net of unamortized discount
s and adjustments related to hedging with
 derivative financial instruments. The 
derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used 
to hedge the fair values of cer
tain fixed-rate debt by conver
ting the 
debt to a variable rate. See Note 20 for more 
information regarding such financial instruments. 
 In August 2013, the parent company issued $400.0 million of senior notes at 99.80% of face value. The senior note issuances 
mature on August 2, 2018 and have a fixed coupon rate of 2.60%. In August 2013, the Bank issued $350.0 million of senior notes 
at 99.865% of face value.  The senior bank no
te issuances mature on August 2, 2016 and ha
ve a fixed coupon rate of 1.35%. Both sen
ior note issuances may be redeemed one month prior to their maturity
 date at 100% of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
 In November 2013, the Bank issued $500.0 million of senior notes at 99.979% of face value. The senior bank note issuances 
mature on November 20, 2016 and have a fi
xed coupon rate of 1.30%. The senior note is
suance may be redeemed one month prior to 
the maturity date at 100% of princi
pal plus accrued and unpaid interest. 
147 
 In 2010, approximately $92.1 million of municipal securities, $86.0 million in Huntingt
on Preferred Capital, Inc. (Real Estate 
Investment Trust) Class E Preferred Stock and cash of $6.1 milli
on were transferred to Tower Hill Securities, Inc., an unconsol
idated 
entity, in exchange for 
$184.1 million of Common and Preferred Stock of Tower 
Hill Securities, Inc. The municipal securities an
d the REIT Shares will be used to satisfy $65.0 million of mandatorily
 redeemable securities issued by Tower Hill Securities, Inc. an
d are 
not available to satisfy the general debts a
nd obligations of Huntington 
or any consolidated affiliates
. The transfer did not m
eet the sale requirement of ASC 860 and therefore ha
s been reflected as a secure
d financing on the Consolidated Financial Statements of
 Huntington. 
 On July 2, 2013, the Federal Reserve Boar
d voted to adopt final capital 
rules to implement Basel III requirements for U.S. 
Banking organizations. The final rules estab
lish an integrated re
gulatory capital framework
 that will implement, in the United 
States, the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Do
dd-Frank Act.  Based on our review of the final rules and an opinio
n of outside counsel, dated Novemb
er 6, 2013, we have determine
d that there is a significant risk that our Hun
tington Preferred Capital, Inc. 7.88% Clas
s C preferred securities will no longer 
constitute Tier 1 capital for the Bank for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or
 policies of the OCC, when Basel III becomes effe
ctive for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and its affiliates.  As a 
result, a regulatory capital event has occurred. On November 7
, 2013, the board of directors approved the redemption 
of Class C preferred securities and on December 31, 2013 (the Redemption Date), 
Huntington Preferred Capital, Inc. redeem
ed all of the Class C Preferred Securities 
at the redemption price of $25.00 per share
.  
Other long-term debt maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 
       Other long-term
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 debt maturities
   2014 
  $ 141 
   2015 
     --- 
   2016 
     850,000    2017 
     --- 
   2018 
     435,000    and thereafte
r     65,000 
  These maturities are based upon the par values of the long-term debt. 
 The terms of the other long-term debt ob
ligations contain various restrictive covena
nts including limitations on the acquisitio
n of 
additional debt in excess of specified levels, dividend payments, and the disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2013,
 Huntington was in compliance with all such covenants. 

   148 
 12.  SUBORDINATED NOTES 
  At December 31, Huntington™s subordinated notes consisted of the following:   
    At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
   2012 
 Parent company:
       6.21% subordinated notes due 2013 
$  --- 
 $ 49,892 
7.00% subordinated notes due 2020 
  323,856    350,656 0.94% junior subordinated debentures due 2027 (1) 
  111,816    111,816 0.87% junior subordinated debentures due 2028 (2) 
  54,593 
   54,593 
1.65% junior subordinated debentures due 2036 (3) 
  72,165 
   72,165 
1.65% junior subordinated debentures due 2036 (3) 
  74,320 
   74,320 
The Huntington National Bank:
       5.00% subordinated notes due 2014  
  125,109    130,186 5.59% subordinated notes due 2016 
  108,038    110,321 6.67% subordinated notes due 2018  
  143,749    150,219 5.45% subordinated notes due 2019 
  87,214 
   92,923 
Total subordinated notes
 $  1,100,860  $ 1,197,091 (1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2013, based on three month LIBOR + 0.70%. 
(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2013, based on three month LIBOR + 0.625%. 
(3) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2013, based on three month LIBOR + 1.40%. 
 Amounts above are net of unamortized discount
s and adjustments related to hedging with
 derivative financial instruments. The 
derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used 
to match the funding rates on cer
tain assets to hedge the int
erest rate values of certain fixed-rate debt by conve
rting the debt to a variable rate. See Note
 20 for more information regarding such fi
nancial instruments.  All principal is due upon maturity
 of the note as described in the table above. 
 During 2012, Huntington retired $230.3 million of junior subord
inated debentures, which resulted in net pre-tax gains of $0.8 
million. These transactions have been recorded as gains on ea
rly extinguishment of debt, a reduc
tion of noninterest expense, in
 the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   149 
 13.  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 The components of Huntington™s OCI in the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, were as follows: 
    2013     Tax (expense) 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Pretax
     Benefit   After-tax 
Noncredit-related impairment recoveries (losses)
 on debt securities not expected to be sold
 $ 235   $ (82) $ 153 Unrealized holding gains (losses)
 on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the period
   (125,919)     44,191 
   (81,728)Less: Reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included in net income
   6,211 
     (2,174)   4,037 
Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities 
   (119,473)     41,935 
   (77,538)Unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-sale equity securities arising during the period
 151     (53)  98 Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losses (gains) included in net income
   ---      ---   --- Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities 
   151      (53)   98 Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives us
ed in cash flow hedging relationships arising 
during the period
   (86,240)     30,184 
   (56,056)Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losse
s (gains) losses included in net income
   (15,188)     5,316 
   (9,872)Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships   (101,428)     35,500 
   (65,928)Re-measurement obligation
   136,452 
     (47,758)   88,694 
Defined benefit pension items
   (13,106)     4,588 
   (8,518)Net change in pension and post-retirement obligations
   123,346 
     (43,170)   80,176 
Total other comprehensive (loss) income 
 $ (97,404)  $  34,212 
 $ (63,192)   2012     Tax (expense) 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Pretax
     Benefit   After-tax 
Noncredi
t-related impairment recoveries (losses) on debt securities not expected to be sold
 $19,215   $(6,725) $12,490 Unrealized holding gains (losses)
 on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the period
 90,318   (32,137) 58,181 Less: Reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included in net income
  (4,769)    1,669   (3,100)Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities 
  104,764     (37,193)  67,571 Net change in unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale equity securities 
  344     (120)  224 Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives us
ed in cash flow hedging relationships arising 
during the period
   (5,476)     1,907 
   (3,569)Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losse
s (gains) losses included in net income
   14,992 
     (5,237)   9,755 
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships   9,516 
     (3,330)   6,186 
Net actuarial gains (losses) arising during the yea
r   (105,527)     36,934 
   (68,593)Amortization of net actuarial loss and 
prior service cost included in income
   27,013 
     (9,455)   17,558 
Net change in pension and post-retirement obligations
   (78,514)     27,479 
   (51,035)Total other comprehensive income (loss) 
 $36,110   $ (13,164) $22,946   150 
    2011     Tax (expense) 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Pretax
     Benefit   After-tax 
Noncredi
t-related impairment recoveries (losses) on debt securities not expected to be sold
 $11,537 $(4,038) $7,499 Unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the period
 95,586   (33,455) 62,131 Less: Reclassification adjustment for net gains (losses) included in net income
  3,681     (1,288)  2,393 Net change in unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-sale debt securities 
  110,804     (38,781)  72,023 Net change in unrealized holding (losses) ga
ins on available-for-sale equity securities 
  612     (215)  397 Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives us
ed in cash flow hedging relationships arising 
during the period
   4,875 
     (1,703)   3,172 
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losse
s (gains) losses included in net income
   3,107 
     (1,091)   2,016 
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships   7,982 
     (2,794)   5,188 
Net actuarial gains (losses) arising during the yea
r   (104,146)     36,451 
   (67,695)Amortization of net actuarial loss and 
prior service cost included in income
   21,261 
     (7,441)   13,820 
Net change in pension and post-retirement obligations
   (82,885)     29,010 
   (53,875)Total other comprehensive (loss) income
 $36,513   $ (12,780) $23,733  Activity in accumulated OCI for the three years ended December 31, were as follows: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Unrealized 
gains and 
(losses) on 
debt securities (1)   Unrealized 
gains and 
(losses) on 
equity securities   Unrealized 
gains and (losses) on cash flow 
hedging derivatives 
    Unrealized 
gains (losses) for pension and other post-retirement 
obligations   Total
Balance, January 1, 2011
 $ (101,290)
 $ (427)
 $ 35,710 
  $  (131,489)
$ (197,496)
Period change 
  72,023 
   397 
   5,188 
     (53,875)
   23,733 
Balance, December 31, 2011
   (29,267)
   (30)
   40,898 
     (185,364)
   (173,763)
Period change
   67,571 
  224 
   6,186 
     (51,035)
   22,946 
Balance, December 31, 2012
   38,304 
   194 
   47,084 
     (236,399)
   (150,817)
Other comprehensive income before reclassifications
  (81,575)
   98    (56,056)
     88,694 
   (48,839)
Amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI to earnings
  4,037 
   --- 
   (9,872)
     (8,518)
   (14,353)
Period change 
  (77,538)
  98    (65,928)
     80,176 
   (63,192)
Balance, December 31, 2013
 $ (39,234)
 $ 292 
 $ (18,844)
  $  (156,223)
 $ (214,009)
(1) Amount at December 31, 2012 includes $0.2 million of net unrealized gains on securities transferred from the available-for-
sale securities portfolio to the held-to-matur
ity securities portfolio. The net unrealized ga
ins will be recognized in earnings over
 the remaining life of the security using the effective interest method.
    151 
 The following table presents the reclassification adjustments out 
of accumulated OCI included in net income and the impacted 
line items as listed on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2013:  
 Reclassifications out of accumulated OCI
    Amounts 
Location of net gain (loss) 
Accumulated OCI components 
reclassed from 
accumulated OCI 
reclassified from accumulated OCI into earnings 
         (dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
   Gains (losses) on debt securities: 
       Amortization of unrealized gains (losses)
 $ 482 
Interest income - held-to-maturity securities - 
taxable 
  Realized gain (loss) on sale of securities 
  (4,891)
Noninterest income - net gains (losses) on sale of 
securities   OTTI recorded 
  (1,802)
Noninterest income - net gains (losses) on sale of 
securities       (6,211)
Total before tax 
      2,174 
Tax (expense) benefit 
    $ (4,037)
Net of tax          Gains (losses) on cash fl
ow hedging relationships: 
    Interest rate contracts 
$ 14,979 
Interest and fee income - loans and leases 
  Interest rate contracts 
  209 
Interest and fee income - investment securities 
  Interest rate contracts 
  --- 
Noninterest expense - other expense 
      15,188 
Total before tax 
      (5,316)
Tax (expense) benefit 
    $ 9,872 
Net of tax          Amortization of defined benefit pension and post-retirement items: 
   Actuarial gains (losses) $ (22,293)
Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
  Prior service costs 
  3,454 
Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
  Other 
  (919)
Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
  Curtailment 
  32,864 
Noninterest expense - personnel costs 
      13,106 
Total before tax 
      (4,588)
Tax (expense) benefit 
    $ 8,518 
Net of tax   14.  SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY 
 Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
In 2008, Huntington issued 56
9,000 shares of 8.50% Series A 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual 
Convertible Preferred Stock (Series A 
Preferred Stock) with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per shar
e.  Each share of the Series A Preferred Stock is non-voting a
nd may 
be converted at any time, at the option of 
the holder, into 83.668 shares of common stock of Huntington, which represents an 
approximate initial conversion price of $11.95 per share of common stock. Since April 15, 2013, at the option of Huntington, th
e Series A Preferred Stock is subject to ma
ndatory conversion into Huntington's comm
on stock at the prevailing conversion rate, i
f the 
closing price of Huntington's common stock exceeds 130% of the conversion price for 20 trading days during any 30 consecutive 
trading day period.  
In 2011, Huntington issued $35.5 million par value Floating Ra
te Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a 
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the Series B Preferred Stock) and, in certain cases, an additional amount of cash 
consideration, in exchange for $35.5 millio
n of (1) Huntington Capital I Floating Rate 
Capital Securities, (2) Huntington Capit
al II Floating Rate Capital Securities, (3) Sky 
Financial Capital Trust III Floating Rate Capital Securities and (4) Sky Financial Ca
pital Trust IV Floating Rate Capital Securities.  
152 
 As part of the exchange offer, Huntington issued depositary sh
ares. Each depositary share represents a 1/40th ownership interes
t in a share of the Series B Preferred Stock. Each holder of a depo
sitary share will be entitled, in
 proportion to the applicable
 fraction of 
a share of Series B Preferred Stock and all the related rights an
d preferences. Huntington will pay dividends on the Series B P
referred 
Stock at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus a spre
ad of 2.70%.  The preferred stock was recorded at the par amount
 of 
$35.5 million, with the difference between par amount of the shares and their fair value of $23.8 million recorded as a discoun
t.  Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Capital and Warrant to Repurchase Common Stock 
 In 2008, Huntington received $1.4 billion of equity capital by issuing to the Treasury 1.4 million shares of TARP Capital and a
 ten-year warrant to purchase up to 23.6 million shares of Hun
tington™s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at an exercise 
price of $8.90 per share.  As approved by the 
Federal Reserve Board, the Trea
sury, and our other banking 
regulators, on December 22, 
2010, Huntington repurchased all 1.4 milli
on shares of our TARP Cap
ital held by the Treasury totali
ng $1.4 billion. Huntington 
used the net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and subordinate
d debt, as well as other funds, to redeem the TARP Capital.
 On 
January 19, 2011, Huntington repurc
hased the warrant origin
ally issued to the Treasury for a purchase price of $49.1 million. 
 Share Repurchase Program 
 On March 14, 2013, Huntington announced that the Federal Re
serve did not object to Huntington's proposed capital actions 
included in Huntington's capital plan submi
tted to the Federal Reserve in January 2013. These actions included an increase in t
he quarterly dividend per common share to $0.05,
 starting in the second quarter of 2013 an
d potential repurchase of up to $227 mil
lion of 
common stock through the first quarter of 20
14. Huntington's board of directors authorized a share repurchase program consisten
t with Huntington™s capital plan. This program replaced the previously authorized share repurchase program authorized by Huntington™s 
board of directors in 2012.  During 2013, Huntington repurchased 
a total of 16.7 million shares of common stock, at a weighted 
average share price of $7.46. During 2012, Huntington repurchase
d a total of 23.3 million shares of common stock, at a weighted
 average share price of $6.36.  
 Huntington has the ability to repurchase up
 to $136 million of additional shares of 
common stock through th
e first quarter of 2014. We intend to continue di
sciplined repurchase activity consistent with
 our annual capital plan, our capital return objecti
ves, and 
market conditions.   

 15.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  Basic earnings per share is the amount of earnings (adjusted for di
vidends declared on preferred st
ock) available to each share
 of common stock outstanding during the reportin
g period. Diluted earnings per share is the amount of earnings available to each sh
are of 
common stock outstanding during 
the reporting period adjusted to include the effect of po
tentially dilutive common shares.  
Potentially dilutive common shares in
clude incremental shares issued
 for stock options, restricted stock units and awards, dist
ributions 
from deferred compensation plans, and the conversion of the Co
mpany™s convertible 
preferred stock (See Note 14).  Potentially 
dilutive common shares are excluded from the computation of dilute
d earnings per share in periods in which the effect would be 
antidilutive.  For diluted earnings per share, net inco
me available to common shares can be affected by the conversion of the 
Company™s convertible prefe
rred stock.  Where the effect of this conversion 
would be dilutive, net income available to common 
shareholders is adjusted by the associated preferred dividends an
d deemed dividend. The calculation of basic and diluted earnin
gs per 
share for each of the three years ended December 31 was as follows: 
 153 
      Year ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
  2013 
    2012  
  2011  
Basic earnings per common share: 
            Net income
 $ 638,741   $  641,022  $ 542,613 Preferred stock dividends, deemed dividends and accretion of discount 
  (31,869)
     (31,989)
   (30,813)
  Net income available to common shareholders 
$ 606,872   $  609,033  $ 511,800 Average common shares issued and outstanding 
  834,205      857,962    863,691 Basic earnings per common share
 $ 0.73 
  $  0.71 
 $ 0.59 
Diluted earnings per common share
            Net income available to common shareholders 
$ 606,872   $  609,033  $ 511,800 Effect of assumed preferred stock conversion 
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
  Net income applicable to d
iluted earnings per share 
$ 606,872   $  609,033  $ 511,800 Average common shares issued and outstanding 
  834,205      857,962    863,691 Dilutive potential common shares: 
               Stock options and restricted stock units and awards 
  8,418 
     4,202 
   2,916 
  Shares held in deferred compensation plans 
  1,351 
     1,238 
   1,017 
  Conversion of preferred stock 
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
Dilutive potential common shares: 
  9,769 
     5,440 
   3,933 
  Total diluted average common shares issued and outstanding 
  843,974      863,402    867,624 Diluted earnings per common share
 $ 0.72 
  $  0.71 
 $ 0.59 
 Approximately 6.6 million, 24.4  million, and 23.6 million options 
to purchase shares of common 
stock outstanding at the end of
 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would
 be 
antidilutive.  16.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Huntington sponsors nonqualified and incen
tive share based compensation plans. These plans provide for the granting of stock 
options and other share-based awards to o
fficers, directors, and other employees. Co
mpensation costs are included in personnel 
costs 
on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Stock options are gran
ted at the closing market price on the date of the grant. Optio
ns granted typically vest ratably over three ye
ars or when other conditions are met.  Stock options, which represented a portion o
f our 
grant values, have no intrinsic value un
til the stock price increases.  Options granted
 prior to May 2004 have a term of ten ye
ars. All options granted after May 2004 have a term of seven years.  
 In 2012, shareholders approved the Huntington Bancshares In
corporated 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) which 
authorized 51 million shares
 for future grants. The Plan is the only active plan
 under which Huntington is currently granting share based options and awards.  At December 31, 2013, 24.4 million shares from the Plan were available for future grants.  Huntingto
n issues shares to fulfill stock 
option exercises and restricted stock unit and aw
ard vesting from available authorized common sh
ares. At 
December 31, 2013, the Company believes there are adequate authorized common shares to satisfy anticipated stock option exercis
es 
and restricted stock unit and award vesting in 2014. 

 Huntington uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to valu
e options in determining our share-based compensation expense. 
Forfeitures are estimated at the date of 
grant based on historical rates, and update
d as necessary, and reduce the compensation
 expense 
recognized. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant. The expected 
dividend 
yield is based on the dividend rate and stock price at the date 
of the grant.  Expected volatility is based on the estimated vo
latility of 
Huntington™s stock over th
e expected term of the option. 
   154 
 The following table illu
strates the weighted average assump
tions used in the option-pricing m
odel for options granted in the th
ree years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
      2013 
   2012  
     2011  
 Assumptions
                      Risk-free interest rate 
 0.79 
%  1.10 
%     1.95 
%  Expected dividend yield 
 2.83 
2.38 
      2.63 
  Expected volatility of Huntington's common stock 
 35.0 
34.9 
      30.0 
  Expected option term (years) 
 5.5 
    6.0 
      6.0 
  Weighted-average grant date fair value per share
$1.71 
   $1.78 
    $1.40 
   The following table illustrates total share-based compensation expense and related tax benefit for the three years ended Decemb
er 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012 
       2011 
   Share-based compensation expense 
$ 37,007 
    $ 27,873 
    $ 19,666 
  Tax benefit 
  12,472 
  9,298 
       6,708 
   Huntington™s stock option activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2013, was as follows: 
              Weighted-           Weighted-    Average
           Average
    Remaining
  Aggregate       Exercise    Contractual
  Intrinsic
(amounts in thousands, except years and per share amounts)
   Options   Price    Life (Years)  ValueOutstanding at January 1, 2013
  26,768 
$ 8.87 
    Granted 
  3,299 
   7.07 
      Exercised 
  (2,498)
   5.77 
      Forfeited/expired 
  (4,269)
   16.17 
      Outstanding at December 31, 2013
 23,300 
$ 7.61 
     4.2 
$ 71,702 
Expected to vest at December 31, 2013 (1) 
 8,893 
$ 6.55 
     5.3 
$ 27,606 
Exercisable at December 31, 2013 
 13,536 
$ 8.37 
     3.4 
$ 41,570 
(1) The number of options expected to vest includes an estimate of 871 shares expected to be forfeited.
  The aggregate intrinsic value represents the amount by which the fair value of underlying stock exceeds the ﬁin-the-moneyﬂ 
option exercise price. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 
and 2011, cash received for the exercises of stock options 
was 
$14.4 million, $2.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively.  The ta
x benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exerci
ses totaled 
$1.8 million, $0.3 million and $0.1 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  
 The weighted-average grant date fair value of nonvested shares granted for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 
were $7.12, $6.69, and $6.24, respectively.  The total fair value of awards vested during the years ended December 31, 2013, 20
12, 
and 2011, was $13.7 million, $9.1 million, and $11.2 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, the total unrecognized 

compensation cost related to
 nonvested awards was $54.8 million with a weight
ed-average expense recognition period of 2.4 years
.    155 
 The following table presents additional information regarding options outstanding as of December 31, 2013: 
 (amounts in thousands, except years and per share amounts)
 Options Outstanding
     Exercisable Options 
       Weighted-                   Average
Weighted-        Weighted-       Remaining
Average
        Average
Range of 
 Contractual
Exercise    ExerciseExercise Prices 
 Shares 
Life (Years)Price    Shares 
Price$0 to $5.63 
  2,221 
   2.6 
$ 4.60 
     1,896 
 $ 4.53 
$5.64 to $6.02 
  8,623 
   4.4 
 6.02 
     5,681 
  6.02 
$6.03 to $15.95 
  10,265 
   5.1 
 6.82 
     3,768 
  6.71 
$15.96 to $24.56 
  2,191 
   0.8 
 20.64 
     2,191 
 20.64 
Total
  23,300 
   4.2 
$ 7.61 
     13,536 
 $ 8.37 
  Huntington also grants restricted
 stock, restricted stock units, performance shar
e awards and other stock-based awards.  Restri
cted stock units and awards are issued at no cost to the recipient, 
and can be settled only in shar
es at the end of the vesting peri
od.  Restricted stock awards provide the holder 
with full voting rights and cash dividends 
during the vesting period.  Restricted st
ock units 
do not provide the holder with voting right
s or cash dividends during the vesting peri
od, but do accrue a dividend equivalent t
hat is paid upon vesting, and are subject to certain service restrictions. 
 Performance share aw
ards are payable contingent upon Hunti
ngton 
achieving certain predefined performance objectives over the three-year measurement period.  The fair value of these awards is 
the 
closing market price of Huntington™s
 common stock on the grant date. 
 The following table summarizes 
the status of Huntington's re
stricted stock units and performance share awards as of December 
31, 2013, and activity for the y
ear ended December 31, 2013: 
       Weighted-    Weighted-      Average
    Average
  Restricted  Grant Date
Performance
  Grant Date
  Stock  Fair ValueShare
  Fair Value(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 Units  Per Share
Awards
  Per Share
Nonvested at January 1, 2013 
 8,484 
$ 6.40 
   694 
$ 6.77 
Granted 
 6,878 
   7.13 
   1,125 
   7.06 
Vested  (2,472)
   6.35 
   --- 
   --- 
Forfeited  (826)
   6.72 
   (173)
   6.91 
Nonvested at December 31, 2013
  12,064 
$ 6.80 
   1,646 
$ 6.95 
156 
 17.  INCOME TAXES 
  The Company and its subsidiaries file income 
tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdic
tion and various state, city, and foreign 
jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits ha
ve been completed through 2009.  In th
e first quarter of 2013, the IRS began an 
examination of our 2010 and 2011 consolidated federal income
 tax returns. The Company has appealed certain proposed 
adjustments resulting from the IRS examination of the 2006, 2007, 
2008, 2009, and 2010 tax returns. Management believes the 
tax positions taken related to such proposed adjustments were 
correct and supported by applic
able statutes, regulations, and 
judicial authority, and intend to vigorously de
fend them. It is possible the ultimate re
solution of the proposed adjustments, i
f unfavorable, may be material to the results
 of operations in the period it occurs. Howe
ver, although no assurance can be given,
 Management believes the resolution of these examinations will 
not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse 
impact on our consolidated financial position. Various state a
nd other jurisdictions remain 
open to examination, including 
Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Pennsylva
nia, West Virginia and Illinois.   
 Huntington accounts for uncertainties in income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. At December 31, 2013, 
Huntington had gross unrecognized tax benefits
 of $0.7 million in income
 tax liability related to 
tax positions. Due to the complexities of some of these uncertainties
, the ultimate resolution may result in a 
payment that is materially different from 
the current estimate of the tax liabilities.  
Huntington does not anticipate the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits to
 significantly change within the next 12 months.   
 The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits: 
         (dollar amounts in thousands)
         2013 
  2012  
        Unrecognized tax benefits
 at beginning of year 
     $  6,246 
$ 11,896 
  Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior years 
        (5,048)
  (5,650)
  Settlements with taxing authorities 
        (494)
  --- 
Unrecognized tax benefits at end of year 
     $  704 
 $ 6,246 
 Any interest and penalties on income tax asse
ssments or income tax refu
nds are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of 
Income as a component of provision for income taxes. Huntington recognized, $0.2 million of interest benefit, $0.1 million of i
nterest 
benefit, and $0.1 million of interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total interes
t accrued was $0.1 million and $2.2 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. All of the gross unrecognized tax benefi
ts would impact the Company™s eff
ective tax rate if recognized. 
 The following is a summa
ry of the provision (benefit)
 for income taxes:  
      Year Ended  December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012 
   2011  
Current tax provision (benefit) 
               Federal  
$ 114,096   $  24,006 
 $ 10,468 
  State     4,278 
     6,966 
   (5,040)
Total current tax provision (benefit) 
  118,374      30,972 
   5,428 
Deferred tax provision (benefit) 
               Federal  
  104,099      186,396    158,709   State     (6,659)
     (33,273)
   484 
Total deferred tax provision (benefit) 
  97,440 
     153,123    159,193 Provision for income taxes 
$ 215,814   $  184,095  $ 164,621    157 
 The following is a reconcilement 
of provision for income taxes:  
      Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
    2012  
  2011  
Provision for income taxes computed at the statutory rate 
$ 299,094 $  288,791 $ 247,532 Increases (decreases): 
             Tax-exempt income 
  (34,378)
   (15,752)
   (9,695)
  Tax-exempt bank owned life insurance income 
  (19,747)
   (19,151)
   (21,169)
  Dividends 
  --- 
   --- 
   (17,744)
  General business credits 
  (39,868)
   (49,654)
   (31,269)
  State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment, net 
  (6,020)
   (21,251)
   --- 
  Capital loss   (961)
   (18,659)
   (7,000)
  Affordable housing investment amortization 
  10,162 
   13,621 
   5,983 
  State income taxes, net 
  4,472 
   4,152 
   (2,962)
  Other 
  3,060 
   1,998 
   945 
Provision for income taxes  
$ 215,814 $  184,095 $ 164,621         The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, were as follows: 
          At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
 2012  
Deferred tax assets:          Allowances for credit losses 
$  244,684  $ 282,175   Net operating and other loss carryforwar
d    153,826   117,435   Fair value adjustments 
   115,874   84,740 
  Tax credit carryforward 
   50,137 
  97,797 
  Accrued expense/prepaid 
   39,636 
  39,813 
  Market discount    20,671 
  --- 
  Partnership investments 
   20,550 
  7,148 
  Purchase accounting adjustments 
   14,096 
  8,383 
  Other 
   10,437 
  17,883 
Total deferred tax assets 
   669,911   655,374 Deferred tax liabilities: 
         Lease financing 
   146,814   122,395   Loan origination costs 
   82,345 
  61,189 
  Mortgage servicing rights 
   48,007 
  30,686 
  Operating assets    46,524 
  35,655 
  Purchase accounting adjustments 
   39,578 
  50,704 
  Securities adjustments 
   33,719 
  30,713 
  Pension and other employee benefits 
   12,608 
  33,898 
  Other 
   11,313 
  21,447 
Total deferred tax liabilities 
   420,908   386,687 Net deferred tax asset before valuation allowance 
   249,003   268,687 Valuation allowance    (111,435)
  (64,812)
Net deferred tax asse
t $  137,568  $ 203,875  At December 31, 2013, Huntington™s net deferred tax asset related to loss and other carryforwards was $203.9 million. This was 
comprised of federal net operating loss carryforwards of $5.4 million, which will begi
n expiring in 2023, $52.1 million of stat
e net operating loss carryforward, which will begin 
expiring in 2015, an alter
native minimum tax credit ca
rryforward of $50.1 million
, which may be carried forward indefinitel
y, and a capital loss carryforward 
of $96.3 million, which will expire in 2015. A valua
tion 
allowance of $96.3 million has been established for the capital loss ca
rryforward because Ma
nagement believes that it is more l
ikely 
than not that the realization of th
is asset will not occur.  
   158 
 In prior periods, Huntington established a full valuation allowance against state deferred tax assets and state net operating l
oss 
carryforwards based on the uncertainty of forecasted state taxable income expected in applicable jurisdictions in order to util
ize the state deferred tax asset and net 
operating loss carryforwards.  Based on current 
analysis of both positive and negative evidenc
e and 
projected forecasted state taxable income, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that a portion of the state def
erred tax asset and state net operating loss carryforwards will be realized. As a result of this analysis, the valuation allowance was re
duced to 
$15.1 million at December 31, 2013, compared to $64.8 million at December 31, 2012, for the portion of the deferred tax asset a
nd 
state net operating loss carryforwards the Company expects to realize.   
 18.  BENEFIT PLANS  
 Huntington sponsors the Plan, a 
non-contributory defined benef
it pension plan covering substa
ntially all employees hired or 
rehired prior to January 1, 2010
.  The Plan, which was modified
 during the current year and 
no longer accrues service benefits 
to participants, provides benefits based upon length of service an
d compensation levels. The funding policy of Huntington is to 
contribute an annual amount that is at least equal to the mini
mum funding requirements but not 
more than the amount deductible 
under the Internal Revenue Code.  There were 
no required minimum contributions during 2013. 
 During the 2013 third qu
arter, the board of directo
rs approved, and management communicated, a curtailment of the Company™s 
pension plan effective December 31, 2013.  As a result of the accounting treatment for the unamortized prior service pension co
st and 
the change in the projected benefit obligation, a one-time, non-
cash, pre-tax gain of approximat
ely $33.9 million was recognize
d in the 
2013 third quarter. The net ga
in includes a gain of $34.6 mi
llion associated with the Plan and a loss of $0.7 million associate
d with the 
SRIP plan.   
 In addition, Huntington has an unfunded defined benefit post
-retirement plan that provides cer
tain healthcare and life insuranc
e benefits to retired employees who have attained the age of 55 and have at least 10 years of ves
ting service under this plan.  F
or any 
employee retiring on or after January 1, 1993,
 post-retirement healthcare benefits are 
based upon the employee™s number of mont
hs of 
service and are limited to the actual cost of coverage.  Life insurance benefits are a percentage of the employee™s base salary
 at the time of retirement, with a maximum of $50,0
00 of coverage.  The employer paid portio
n of the post-retirement health and life 
insurance plan was eliminated for employees retiring on and after March 1, 2010.  Elig
ible employees retiring on and after Marc
h 1, 2010, who elect retiree medical coverage, will pay 
the full cost of this coverage.  Hun
tington will not provide any employer pa
id life insurance to employees retiring on and after March 1, 2010.  Elig
ible employees will be able to 
convert or port their existing 
life insurance at their own expense under the same te
rms that are available to all terminated employees.  
 The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at December 31, 2013 and 
2012, and the net periodic benefit cost for the years then ended: 
       Pension   Post-Retirement 
      Benefits   Benefits 
      2013
  2012
    2013
  2012
 Weighted-average assumptions used 
to determine benefit obligations
                       Discount rate  
4.89 
%3.83 
%   4.27 
%3.28
%  Rate of compensation increase 
N.A.
  4.50 
    N/AN/A  Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost 
                     Discount rate (1) 
4.15 
 4.57 
    3.28 
 4.34
   Expected return on plan assets 
7.63 
  8.00 
    N/A  N/A    Rate of compensation increase 
4.50 
  4.50 
    N/A  N/A  N/A - Not Applicable                     (1) The 2013 expense was remeasured as of July 1, 2013. The discount rate was 3.83% from January 1, 2013 to July 1, 2013, and w
aschanged to 4.47% for the period from July 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013. 
                       The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is an assumption reflecting the average rate of earnings expected on the f
unds 
invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits includ
ed in the projected benefit obligation. The expected long-term rate of return 
is established at the beginning of the plan
 year based upon historical returns and pro
jected returns on the underlying mix of i
nvested 
assets.     159 
 The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balan
ces of the benefit obligation of th
e Plan and the post-retirement 
benefit plan with the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31: 
       Pension 
    Post-Retirement 
      Benefits 
    Benefits 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
  2012
     2013 
  2012
 Projected benefit obligation at 
beginning of measurement year 
$ 783,778$ 656,339   $  27,787 
$ 32,851 
Changes due to: 
                 Service cost 
  25,122
  24,869 
     --- 
  --- 
  Interest cost 
  30,112
  29,215 
     862 
  1,350 
  Benefits paid   (14,886)
  (13,719)
     (3,170)
  (3,850)
  Settlements 
  (19,363)
  (10,444)
     --- 
   --- 
  Plan amendments 
  (13,559)
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
  Plan curtailments 
  (7,875)
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
  Medicare subsidies 
  ---
   --- 
     564 
  740 
  Actuarial assumptions and gains and losses 
  (98,330)
  97,518 
     (374)
  (3,304)
Total changes 
  (98,779)
  127,439      (2,118)
  (5,064)
Projected benefit obligation at end of measurement year  
$ 684,999$ 783,778   $  25,669 
$ 27,787 
 Benefits paid for post-retirement are net of
 retiree contributions collected by Hunti
ngton.  The actual contributions received 
in 
2013 by Huntington for the retiree 
medical program were $2.9 million. 
 The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of
 the fair value of Plan assets at the December 31, 2013 and 
2012 measurement dates: 
       Pension 
      Benefits 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013  
  2012 
 Fair value of plan assets at 
beginning of measurement year 
$  633,617 $ 538,970 Changes due to: 
         Actual return on plan assets 
   49,652 
  43,810 
  Employer contributions 
   --- 
  75,000 
  Settlements 
   (19,363)
  (10,444)
  Benefits paid    (14,886)
  (13,719)
Total changes 
   15,403 
  94,647 
Fair value of plan assets at end of measurement year 
$  649,020 $ 633,617  Huntington™s accumulated benefit obligation under the Plan was 
$685.0 million and $775.2 milli
on at December 31, 2013 and 
2012. As of December 31, 2013, the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Huntington™s plan assets by $36.0 
million and the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Huntington™s plan assets by $36.0 million.  
 The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs recognized in the three years ended December 31, 2013: 
     Pension Benefits
  Post-Retirement Benefits
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
   2011 
    2013  
    2012 
   2011 
 Service cost 
$  25,122 
$ 24,869 
$ 21,650 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$ --- 
Interest cost 
   30,112 
  29,215 
  30,073 
 862 
   1,350 
  1,618 
Expected return on plan assets 
   (47,716)
  (45,730)
  (43,290)
 --- 
   --- 
  --- 
Amortization of transition asset 
   --- 
  (4)
  (5)
 --- 
   --- 
  --- 
Amortization of prior service cost 
   (2,883)
  (5,767)
  (5,767)
 (1,353)
   (1,353)
  (1,354)
Amortization of loss 
   23,044 
  26,956 
  23,494 
 (600)
   (332)
  (423)
Curtailment 
   (34,613)
  --- 
  --- 
 --- 
   --- 
  --- 
Settlements 
   8,116 
  5,405 
  5,483 
 --- 
   --- 
  --- 
Benefit costs $  1,182 
$ 34,944 
$ 31,638 
$ (1,091)
$  (335)
$ (159)
 160 
 Included in benefit costs are $1.7 million, $1
.1 million, and $0.8 million of plan expens
es that were recognized in the three y
ears ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011. It is Huntington™s policy to recognize settlement gains and losses as incurred.  Assum
ing 
no cash contributions are made to the Plan
 during 2014, Management expects net peri
odic pension benefit, excluding any expense 
of 
settlements, to approximate $5.9 million for 2014.  The postr
etirement medical and life subsidy was eliminated for anyone that 
retires on or after March 1, 2010. As 
such, there were no in
cremental net periodic post-retirement be
nefits costs associated with this 
plan. 
 The estimated transition obligation, prior 
service credit, and net actuarial loss for th
e plans that will be amortized from OCI
 into 
net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is zer
o, $1.3 million, and a $6.3 million benefit, respectively.  
 At December 31, 2013 and 2012, The Huntington National Bank, as trustee, held all Plan assets. The Plan assets consisted of 
investments in a variety of c
orporate and government fixed income investments, 
Huntington mutual funds 
and Huntington common 
stock as follows:  
      Fair Value  (dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
        2012  
    Cash $ --- 
 --- 
%   $  22  ---
% Cash equivalents: 
                Huntington funds - money market
   803 
 --- 
       6,012 
 1   Fixed income: 
                Huntington funds - fixed income funds
   74,048 
 11        84,688 
 13     Corporate obligations
   180,757  28        149,241  24     U.S. Government Obligations
   51,932 
 8        36,595 
 6     U.S. Government Agencies
   6,146 
 1        7,511 
 1   Equities:                 Huntington funds
   289,379  45        312,479  49     Exchange Traded Funds
   24,705 
 4        --- 
 ---
     Huntington common stock
   20,324 
 3        37,069 
 6     Limited Partnerships
   926 
 --- 
       --- 
 ---
   Fair value of plan assets 
$ 649,020  100 
%   $  633,617  100%   Investments of the Plan are accounted for at cost on the trade date and are reported at fair value.  All of the Plan™s investme
nts at December 31, 2013, are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, except for corporate obligations, U.S. government
 obligations, and U.S. government agencies, 
which are classified as Level 2.  In general, investments of the Plan are exposed to
 various 
risks, such as interest rate risk, credit 
risk, and overall market volatility.  Due to th
e level of risk associated with certai
n investments, it 
is reasonably possible changes in the values
 of investments will occur in the near ter
m and such changes could materially affec
t the 
amounts reported in the Plan assets. 
 The investment objective of the Plan is to maximize the return on 
Plan assets over a long time period, while meeting the Plan 
obligations.  At December 31, 2013, Plan assets were invested 52% in equity investments, and 48% in bonds, with an average dura
tion 
of 11.8 years on bond investme
nts.  The estimated life of benefit obligations 
was 11 years. Although it may fluctuate with mark
et conditions, Management has targeted a long-ter
m allocation of Plan assets of 20% to 50% 
in equity investments and 80% to 50% in
 bond investments.  The allocation of Plan assets between equity investments and fixed 
income investments will change from time 
to 
time with the allocation to fixed income invest
ments increasing as the funding level increases. 
  The following table shows the number of shares and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by the Plan: 
    December 31, 
     (dollar amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
 2013 
  2012  
     Shares in Huntington common stock
(1)  2,095,304  5,764,986     Dividends received on shar
es of Huntington stock 
$ 992$ 1,085
                   (1)The Plan has acquired and held Huntington common stock in compliance at all times with Section 407 of 
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1978.
      161 
 At December 31, 2013, the following table shows when benefit payments were expected to be paid: 
           Post-
      Pension  Retirement(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Benefits Benefits 
  2014  
$  44,924 
 $ 2,919 
  2015  
   43,610 
   2,680 
  2016  
   41,308 
   2,437 
  2017  
   40,736 
 2,228 
  2018  
   40,216 
 2,029 
  2019 through 2022 
   196,628  8,470 
 Although not required, Huntington may choose to make a cash cont
ribution to the Plan up to the 
maximum deductible limit in the 
2013 plan year.  An
ticipated contributions for 2014 
to the post-retirement benef
it plan are $2.9 million. 
 The assumed healthcare cost trend rate has an effect on the 
amounts reported. A one percentage point increase would increase th
e accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by $150.9 thousand and would decrease interest costs by $5.7 thousand. A one 
percentage point decrease would decrease service costs by $111.3 
thousand and would increase inter
est costs by $5.4 thousand.  
 The 2014 and 2013 healthcare cost trend rate was projected to be 
7.5% for pre-65 aged participants and 7.8% for post-65 aged 
participants.  These rates are assumed to decrease gradually until they reach 4.5% for both pre-65 aged participants and post-6
5 aged 
participants in the year 2028 
and remain at that level thereaft
er. Huntington updated the immediate healthcare cost trend rate 
assumption based on current market data an
d Huntington™s claims experience. This trend rate is expected to decline over time to
 a trend level consistent with medical inflatio
n and long-term economic assumptions.  
 Huntington also sponsors other 
retirement plans, the most significant being the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and the 
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan. These plans are nonqualified 
plans that provide certain current and former officers and 
directors of Huntington and its subsidiaries with defined pensio
n benefits in excess of limits im
posed by federal tax law. At D
ecember 
31, 2013 and 2012, Huntington
 has an accrued pension liability of $29.2 million 
and $35.4 million, re
spectively, associated wit
h these 
plans. Pension expense for the plans was $4
.2 million, $2.5 million, and $1.8 million 
in 2013, 2012, and 20
11, respectively. Du
ring the 2013 third quarter, the board 
of directors approved, and management commun
icated, a curtailment of the Company™s SRIP plan 
effective December 31, 2013.   
 The following table presents the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013 and 2012 for all 
of Huntington defined benefit plans: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
$  90,842 
$ 213,335  The following tables present the amounts recognized in OCI as of December 31, 2013,  2012, and 2011, and the changes in 
accumulated OCI for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
     2012  
 2011  
Net actuarial loss 
$ (166,078)
  $  (262,187)
 $ (215,628)
Prior service cost 
  9,855 
     25,788 
   30,261 
Transition liability 
  --- 
     --- 
   3 Defined benefit pension plans 
$ (156,223)
  $  (236,399)
 $ (185,364)
   162 
      2013  
       Tax (expense) 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
  Pretax     Benefit   After-taxBalance, beginning of year
 $ (363,691)
  $  127,292  $ (236,399)
Net actuarial (loss) gain:
                Amounts arising during the year 
  118,666      (41,532)
   77,134 
  Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  29,194 
     (10,218)
   18,976 
Prior service cost:
                Amounts arising during the year 
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
  Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  (24,514)
     8,580 
   (15,934)
Transition obligation:                Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
Balance, end of year
 $ (240,345)
  $  84,122 
 $ (156,223)
               2012 
        Tax (expense) 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
  Pretax     Benefit   After-taxBalance, beginning of year 
$ (285,177)
  $  99,813 
 $ (185,364)
Net actuarial (loss) gain: 
               Amounts arising during the year 
  (105,527)
     36,934 
   (68,593)
  Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  33,880 
     (11,858)
   22,022 
Prior service cost:                Amounts arising during the year 
  --- 
     --- 
   --- 
  Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  (6,865)
     2,403 
   (4,462)
Transition obligation: 
               Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  (2)
     --- 
   (2)
Balance, end of year 
$ (363,691)
  $  127,292  $ (236,399)
               2011  
       Tax (expense) 
  (dollar amounts in thousands)
  Pretax     Benefit   After-taxBalance, beginning of year 
$ (202,292)
  $  70,803 
 $ (131,489)
Net actuarial (loss) gain: 
               Amounts arising during the year 
  (104,146)
     36,451 
   (67,695)
  Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  28,077 
     (9,827)
   18,250 
Prior service cost:                Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  (6,811)
     2,384 
   (4,427)
Transition obligation: 
               Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
  (5)
     2    (3)
Balance, end of year 
$ (285,177)
  $  99,813 
 $ (185,364)
                          Huntington has a defined contribution plan th
at is available to eligible
 employees. Starting January 1, 2013, Huntington matche
d participant contributions, up to the first 4% of base pay contributed to the Plan.   
   163 
 The following table shows the costs of providing 
the defined contribution plan as of December 31: 
   December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
  2012  
  2011  
 Defined contribution plan 
$ 18,238
$  16,926
  $   14,980
 The following table shows the number of shares, market value, and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by 
the defined contribution plan as of December 31: 
   December 31, 
   (dollar amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
 2013 
  2012  
    Shares in Huntington common stock 
  13,624,429
  14,892,094
    Market value of Huntington common stock 
$ 131,476$  95,160
    Dividends received on shares of Huntington stock 
  2,567
  2,414
     19.  FAIR VALUES OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
  Following is a description of the valua
tion methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general 
classification of such instruments purs
uant to the valuation hierarchy.  
 Mortgage loans held for sale 
Huntington elected to apply the fair value op
tion for mortgage loans origi
nated with the intent to 
sell which are included in l
oans 
held for sale.  Mortgage loans held for sale are classified as Level 2 and are estimated using security prices for similar prod
uct types. 
 Available-for-sale securities and trading account securities 
Securities accounted for at fair value include both the available-for-sale and trading portfolios.  Huntington uses prices obta
ined 
from third party pricing services and recent trades to determine the fair value of securities.  AFS and trading securities are 
classified as 
Level 1 using quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets
 for identical securities that Hu
ntington has the ability to a
ccess at the measurement date. 1% of the positions in these portfolios ar
e Level 1, and consist of U.S. Treasury securities and money ma
rket mutual funds.  When quoted market prices are not available, fair values are classified as Level 2 using quoted prices for simil
ar assets in active markets, quoted prices 
of identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable 
for the asset, 
either directly or indirectly, for substantia
lly the full term of the financial instrume
nt. 88% of the positions in these portf
olios are Level 
2, and consist of U.S. Government and agency debt securities, agency mortgage backed securities, asset-backed securities, munic
ipal securities and other securities.  For both Level 1 and Level 2 securities, management uses various methods and techniques to 
corroborate prices obtained from the pricing service, including re
ference to dealer or other ma
rket quotes, and by reviewing va
luations 
of comparable instruments.  If relevant market prices are lim
ited or unavailable, valuations may require significant management
 judgment or estimation to determine fair value, in which case the fair values are classified as Level 3. 11% of our positions a
re Level 
3, and consist of non-agency ALT-A asset-backed securities, 
private-label CMO securities, pool
ed-trust-preferred CDO securities and 
municipal securities.  A significant change 
in the unobservable inputs 
for these securities may result in a significant change in the 
ending fair value measurement of these securities. 
 The Alt-A, private label CMO and CDO secu
rities portfolios are classified as Level 3 
and as such use significant estimates to 
determine the fair value of these securities which results 
in greater subjectivity. The Alt-A 
and private label CMO securities 
portfolios 
are subjected to a monthly review of the projected cash flows, wh
ile the cash flows of the pooled
-trust-preferred securities portfolio 
are reviewed quarterly. These reviews are supported with analysis from independent third parties, and are used as a basis for 
impairment analysis.  
 Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label C
MO securities are collateralized by first-lien re
sidential mortgage loans. The securit
ies valuation methodology incorporates
 values obtained from 
a third party pricing specialist using 
a discounted cash flow approach 
and a 
proprietary pricing model and includes assump
tions management believes market participants would use to value the securities un
der current market conditions. The model uses inpu
ts such as estimated prep
ayment speeds, losses, rec
overies, default rates that ar
e implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the struc
ture or similar structures, ho
use price depreciation / apprecia
tion rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates 
that are implied by market prices for similar securities with si
milar collateral structures.  164 
 CDOs are backed by a pool of debt secu
rities issued by financial institutions. The 
collateral generally consists of CDO securit
ies and subordinated debt
 securities issued by ba
nks, bank holding companies
, and insurance co
mpanies. A full cash flow analysis is
 used 
to estimate fair values and assess impairment
 for each security within 
this portfolio. We engage a 
third party pricing speciali
st with direct industry experience in pooled-trust-pre
ferred securities valuations to provide assistance in estimating the fair value a
nd expected 
cash flows for each security in this portfolio.  The PD of each issuer and the market discount rate are the most significant in
puts in 
determining fair value.  Management evaluates the PD assumptions
 provided by the third party pri
cing specialist by comparing th
e current PD to the assumptions used the previous quarter, actual 
defaults and deferrals in the current period, and trend data on
 certain financial ratios of the issuers. Hu
ntington also evaluates the assumptions related to
 discount rates.   Relying on cash flows i
s necessary 
because there was a lack of observable transactions in the market and many of the original sponsors or dealers for these securi
ties are no longer able to provide a fair valu
e that is compliant with ASC 820. 
 Huntington utilizes the same processes to de
termine the fair value of investment secu
rities classified as held-to-maturity for 
impairment evaluation purposes. 
 Automobile loans 
Effective January 1, 2010, Hun
tington consolidated an automobile loan secur
itization that previously had been accounted for as 
an off-balance sheet transaction. As a result, Huntington elected to account for these automobile loan receivables at fair valu
e per guidance supplied in ASC 825.  The automobile loan receivables are classified as Level 3. The key assumptions used to determine
 the fair value of the automobile loan receivables included projections of expected losses and prepayment of the underlying loans in
 the portfolio and a market assumption of interest rate spreads. Cert
ain interest rates are available from similarly traded securiti
es while other interest rates are developed internally based on simil
ar asset-backed security transactions in the market. 
  MSRs  MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices.  Accordingly, the fair value of these assets is classifie
d as 
Level 3. Huntington determines the fair value of MSRs using an in
come approach model based upon our month-end interest rate cur
ve and prepayment assumptions.  The model, wh
ich is operated and maintained by a third party, utilizes
 assumptions to estimate fut
ure net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of time decay, payoffs, and changes in valuation inputs and assumptions.  
Servicing brokers and other sources of info
rmation (e.g. discussion with other mortga
ge servicers and industry surveys) are use
d to 
obtain information on market practice and assu
mptions.  On at least a quarterly basis, 
third party marks are obtained from at l
east one 
service broker.  Huntington reviews the va
luation assumptions against this market data for reasonableness and adjusts the assum
ptions if deemed appropriate.  Any recommended change in assumptions and 
/ or inputs are presented for review to the Mortgage Price Ri
sk 
Subcommittee for final approval.   

 Derivatives 
Derivatives classified as Level 1 consist of exchange traded options and forward commitments to deliver mortgage-backed 
securities which are valued using quoted prices.  Asset and liability conversion swaps and options, and interest rate caps are 
classified 
as Level 2. These derivative positions are valued using a discounted cash flow method that incorporates current market interest
 rates.  Derivatives classified as Level 3 consist primarily of interest rate lock agreements related to mort
gage loan commitments.  The
 determination of fair value includes assu
mptions related to the likelihood that a commit
ment will ultimately result in a closed
 loan, 
which is a significant unobservable assump
tion.  A significant increase or decrease in the external market price would result i
n a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. 
   165 
 Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are summarized below: 
 Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Netting     Balance at
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Level 1   Level 2    Level 3  Adjustments (1) 
  December 31, 2013
Assets                       Mortgage loans held for sale 
$  --- 
 $ 278,928  $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  278,928 Trading account securities:
                         Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
     --- 
  Federal agencies: Other agencies 
   --- 
   834 
   --- 
   --- 
     834 
  Municipal securities    --- 
   2,180 
   --- 
   --- 
     2,180 
  Other securities 
   32,081 
   478 
   --- 
   --- 
     32,559 
       32,081 
   3,492 
   --- 
   --- 
     35,573 
Available-for-sale and other securities:
                         U.S. Treasury securities 
   51,604 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
     51,604 
  Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed (2) 
   --- 
   3,566,221    --- 
   --- 
     3,566,221   Federal agencies: Other agencies 
   --- 
   319,888    --- 
   --- 
     319,888   Municipal securities    --- 
   491,455    654,537    --- 
     1,145,992   Private-label CMO 
   --- 
   16,964 
   32,140 
   --- 
     49,104 
  Asset-backed securities    --- 
   983,621    107,419    --- 
     1,091,040   Covered bonds 
   --- 
   285,874    --- 
   --- 
     285,874   Corporate debt 
   --- 
   457,240    --- 
   --- 
     457,240   Other securities 
   16,971 
   3,828 
   --- 
   --- 
     20,799 
       68,575 
   6,125,091    794,096    --- 
     6,987,762 Automobile loans
    --- 
   --- 
   52,286 
   --- 
     52,286 
MSRs    --- 
   --- 
   34,236 
   --- 
     34,236 
Derivative assets 
    36,774 
   219,045    3,066 
   (58,856)
     200,029 Liabilities                       Derivative liabilities
    22,787 
   124,123    676 
   (18,312)
     129,274 Short-term borrowings
    --- 
   1,089 
   --- 
   --- 
     1,089 
                          Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Netting     Balance at (dollar amounts in thousands)
   Level 1   Level 2    Level 3  Adjustments (1) 
  December 31, 2012
Assets                       Mortgage loans held for sale 
$  --- 
 $ 452,949  $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  452,949 Trading account securities: 
                        Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
     --- 
  Municipal securities    --- 
   15,218 
   --- 
   --- 
     15,218 
  Other securities 
   75,729 
   258 
   --- 
   --- 
     75,987 
       75,729 
   15,476 
   --- 
   --- 
     91,205 
Available-for-sale and other securities: 
                        U.S. Treasury securities 
   52,311 
   --- 
   --- 
   --- 
     52,311 
  Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed (2) 
   --- 
   4,264,670    --- 
   --- 
     4,264,670   Federal agencies: Other agencies (3) 
   --- 
   359,626    --- 
   --- 
     359,626   Municipal securities    --- 
   439,772    61,228 
   --- 
     501,000   Private-label CMO 
   --- 
   22,793 
   48,775 
   --- 
     71,568 
  Asset-backed securities    --- 
   919,046    110,037    --- 
     1,029,083   Covered bonds 
   --- 
   290,625    --- 
   --- 
     290,625   Corporate debt 
   --- 
   668,142    --- 
   --- 
     668,142   Other securities 
   17,177 
   3,898 
   --- 
   --- 
     21,075 
       69,488 
   6,968,572    220,040    --- 
     7,258,100   166 
 Automobile loans 
   --- 
   --- 
   142,762    --- 
     142,762 MSRs    --- 
   --- 
   35,202 
   --- 
     35,202 
Derivative assets  
   6,368 
   465,517    13,180 
   (99,368)
     385,697 Liabilities                       Derivative liabilities 
   6,813 
   228,312    478 
   (83,415)
     152,188 (1) Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and
 negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
 (2) During 2013 and 2012, Huntington transferred $292.2 million and $278.2 million, respectively of federal agencies: mortgage-
backed 
securities from the available-for-sale securities portfolio to
 the held-to-maturity securities 
portfolio.  These securities are valued at 
amortized cost and no long
er classified within the fair valu
e hierarchy.  All securities were previously classified as Level 2 
in the fair 
value hierarchy. 
 
(3) During 2012, Huntington tr
ansferred $0.5 million of federal agencies: ot
her agencies securities 
from the available-for-sale securities portfolio to the held-to-maturity securitie
s portfolio.  These securities are valued at 
amortized cost and no longer classified
 within the fair 
value hierarchy.  All securities were previously classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
 The tables below present a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 for 
financial instruments measured on a recurring
 basis and classified as Level 3. The classification of an item as Level 3 is base
d on the 
significance of the unobse
rvable inputs to the overall fair value measuremen
t. However, Level 3 measurements may also include 
observable components of value that can be 
validated externally. Accordingly, the gains 
and losses in the table below include c
hanges in 
fair value due in part to observable factor
s that are part of the valuation methodology: 
         Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
        Year ended December 31, 2013 
             Available-for-sale securities                         Asset-               Derivative 
 Municipal 
 Private-   backed 
 Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)
     MSRs  instruments
 securities  label CMO 
  securities  loans 
Balance, beginning of year
   $  35,202 
$ 12,702 
$ 61,228 
$ 48,775 
$  110,037 $ 142,762 Total gains / losses: 
                        Included in earnings 
     (966)
  (5,944)
  2,129 
  (180)
   (2,244)
  (358)
  Included in OCI 
     --- 
  --- 
  9,075 
  1,703 
   35,139 
  --- 
Other (1) 
     --- 
  --- 
  600,435   --- 
   --- 
  --- 
Sales      --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  (10,254)
   (16,711)
  --- 
Repayments 
     --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  --- 
   --- 
  (90,118)
Settlements 
     --- 
  (4,368)
  (18,330)
  (7,904)
   (18,802)
  --- 
Balance, end of year
   $  34,236 
$ 2,390 
$ 654,537 $ 32,140 
$  107,419 $ 52,286 
                          Change in unrealized gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings (or changes in net 
assets) for assets held at end of the reporting 
date   $  (966)
$ (5,944)
$ 9,075 
$ 1,703 
$  35,139 
$ (358)
  167 
         Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
        Year ended December 31, 2012 
             Available-for-sale securities                        Asset-               Derivative 
 Municipal 
 Private 
  backed 
 Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)
     MSRs  instruments
 securities  label CMO 
  securities  loans 
Balance, beginning of year
   $  65,001 
$ (169)
$ 95,092 
$ 72,364 
$  121,698 $ 296,250 Total gains / losses: 
                        Included in earnings 
     (29,799)
  10,617 
  --- 
  (796)
   (59)
  (1,230)
  Included in OCI 
     --- 
  --- 
  (1,637)
  8,245 
   23,138 
  --- 
Sales      --- 
  --- 
  (3,040)
  (15,183)
   (20,852)
  --- 
Repayments 
     --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  --- 
   --- 
  (152,258)
Settlements 
     --- 
  2,254 
  (29,187)
  (15,855)
   (13,888)
  --- 
Balance, end of year
   $  35,202 
$ 12,702 
$ 61,228 
$ 48,775 
$  110,037 $ 142,762                         Change in unrealized gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings (or changes in net 
assets) for assets held at end of the reporting 
date   $  (29,799)
$ 5,818 
$ (1,637)
$ 8,245 
$  23,138 
$ (1,230)
            Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
        Year ended December 31, 2011 
             Available-for-sale securities                        Asset-               Derivative 
 Municipal 
 Private 
  backed 
 Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)
     MSRs  instruments
 securities  label CMO 
  securities  loans 
Balance, beginning of year
   $  125,679 $ 966 
$ 149,806 $ 121,925 $  162,684 $ 522,717 Total gains / losses: 
                        Included in earnings 
     (60,678)
  211 
  --- 
  (1,673)
   (3,065)
  (6,577)
  Included in OCI 
     --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  349 
   2,070 
  --- 
Purchases 
     --- 
  --- 
  1,760 
  --- 
   --- 
  --- 
Sales      --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  (20,958)
   --- 
  --- 
Repayments 
     --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  --- 
   --- 
  (219,890)
Settlements 
     --- 
  (1,346)
  (56,474)
  (27,279)
   (39,991)
  --- 
Balance, end of year
   $  65,001 
$ (169)
$ 95,092 
$ 72,364 
$  121,698 $ 296,250                           Change in unrealized gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings (or changes in net 
assets) for assets held at end of the reporting 
date   $  (60,678)
$ (1,135)
$ --- 
$ (1,494)
$  595 
$ (6,577)
  (1) Effective December 31, 2013 approximatel
y $600.4 million of direct pu
rchase municipal instruments were reclassified from C&
I loans to available-for-sale securities.  
   168 
 The tables below summarize the classification of gains and losses due 
to changes in fair value, re
corded in earnings for Level 
3 assets and liabilities for the years ende
d December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
       Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
      Year ended December 31, 2013 
           Available-for-sale securities                       Asset-             Derivative 
 Municipal 
 Private 
  backed 
 Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   MSRs  instruments
 securities  label CMO 
  securities  loans 
Classification of gains and losses in earnings: 
                Mortgage banking income (loss) 
$  (966)
$ (5,944)
$ --- 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$ --- 
Securities gains (losses) 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  (336)
   (1,466)
  --- 
Interest and fee income 
   --- 
  --- 
  2,129 
  156 
   (778)
  (3,569)
Noninterest income 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  --- 
   --- 
  3,211 
Total
 $  (966)
$ (5,944)
$ 2,129 
$ (180)
$  (2,244)
$ (358)
      Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
      Year ended December 31, 2012 
           Available-for-sale securities                      Asset-             Derivative 
 Municipal 
 Private 
  backed 
 Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   MSRs  instruments
 securities  label CMO 
  securities  loans 
Classification of gains and losses in earnings: 
                Mortgage banking income (loss) 
$  (29,799)
$ 10,617 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$ --- 
Securities gains (losses) 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  (1,614)
   --- 
  --- 
Interest and fee income 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  818 
   (59)
  (6,950)
Noninterest income 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  --- 
   --- 
  5,720 
Total
 $  (29,799)
$ 10,617 
$ --- 
$ (796)
$  (59)
$ (1,230)
      Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
      Year ended December 31, 2011 
           Available-for-sale securities                      Asset-             Derivative 
 Municipal 
 Private 
  backed 
 Automobile
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   MSRs  instruments
 securities  label CMO 
  securities  loans 
Classification of gains and losses in earnings: 
                Mortgage banking income (loss) 
$  (60,678)
$ 6,635 
$ --- 
$ --- 
$  --- 
$ --- 
Securities gains (losses) 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  (2,551)
   (4,159)
  --- 
Interest and fee income 
   --- 
  --- 
  --- 
  878 
   1,094 
  (11,645)
Noninterest income 
   --- 
  (6,424)
  --- 
  --- 
   --- 
  5,068 
Total
 $  (60,678)
$ 211 
$ --- 
$ (1,673)
$  (3,065)
$ (6,577)
   169 
 Assets and liabilities under the fair value option  
  The following table presents the fair va
lue and aggregate principal balance of certai
n assets and liabilities under the fair v
alue option: 
      December 31, 2013 
  December 31, 2012 
     Fair valueAggregate Fair valueAggregate     carrying unpaid
 carrying unpaid
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   amoun
tprincipal
Difference 
  amoun
tprincipal
Difference 
Assets                          Mortgage loans held for sale 
$  278,928   $ 276,945 $ 1,983 
$ 452,949   $  438,254  $ 14,695 
  Automobile loans 
  52,286 
    50,800 
  1,486 
  142,762      140,916    1,846 
 The following tables present the net gains (losses) from fair value changes, including
 net gains (losses) associated with instr
ument 
specific credit risk for the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 
2012 and 2011: 
     Net gains (losses) from fair value changes
     Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012 
       2011 
  Assets                   Mortgage loans held for sale 
$ (12,711)
    $ 4,284 
    $ 13,842 
    Automobile loans 
  (360)
  (1,231)
     (6,577)
Liabilities        Securitization trust notes payable
   --- 
  (2,023)
     (7,731)
     Gains (losses) included in fair value changes
    associated with instrument specific credit risk
     Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012 
       2011 
  Assets                   Automobile loans 
$ 2,207 
    $ 2,749 
    $ 6,610 
   Assets and Liabilities measured at 
fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
 Certain assets and liabilities may be required to be measured at f
air value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to th
eir initial recognition.  These assets an
d liabilities are not measured at fair value on 
an ongoing basis; however, they are subjec
t to fair 
value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of impairment.  For the year ended December 31, 2013
, assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were as follows:   
         Fair Value Measurements Using
               Quoted Prices  Significant 
  Significant 
   Total  
         In Active 
  Other 
  Other 
   Gains/(Losses)
         Markets for 
  Observable 
  Unobservable 
   For the 
     Fair Value at
   Identical Assets
 Inputs
Inputs
   Year Ended
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 December 31,
  (Level 1)   (Level 2)  (Level 3) December 31, 
 2013  
                     Impaired loans 
$  114,256  $ --- 
 $ --- 
 $ 114,256   $ (39,228)
 Other real estate owned 
 27,664 
   --- 
   --- 
   27,664 
  $ 4,302 
  Periodically, Huntington record
s nonrecurring adjustments of collateral-depend
ent loans measured for impairment when 
establishing the ACL. Such amounts are generally based on the fair
 value of the underlying colla
teral supporting the loan.  App
raisals 
are generally obtained to support the fair
 value of the collateral and incorporate meas
ures such as recent sales prices for comparable properties and cost of construction.  In cases where the carrying 
value exceeds the fair value of the collateral less cost to s
ell, an 
impairment charge is recognized.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, Huntington identified $114.3 million of impaired loa
ns for which the fair value is recorded based upon collateral v
alue. For the year ended December 
31, 2013, nonrecurring fair value losses 
of $39.2 million were recorded within the provision for credit losses. 
170 
 Other real estate owned properties are included in accrued income and other assets and valued based on appraisals and third par
ty price opinions, less estimated selling costs.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, Huntington recorded $27.7 million of OR
EO 
assets at fair value and recognized gains of $4.3
 million, recorded within noninterest expense. 
 Significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis 
 The table below presents qu
antitative information about the significant unobserv
able inputs for assets and liabilities measured
 at fair 
value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2013: 
 Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
 (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Fair Value at
   Valuation  Significant 
  Range 
  December 31, 2013
   Technique 
 Unobservable Input 
  (Weighted Average) 
MSRs $  34,236 
  Discounted cash flo
w Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
  7% - 32% (12%)
         Spread over forward interest rate 
swap rates  -158 - 4,216 (1,069)
           Derivative assets 
   3,066 
  Consensus Pricing
 Net market price
  -5.25% - 13.53% (1.3%)
Derivative liabilities 
   676 
   Estimated Pull thru %
  50% -  89% (78%)
           Municipal securities    654,537   Discounted cash flo
w Discount rate  1.6% - 4.5% (2.4%)
           Private-label CMO 
   32,140 
  Discounted cash flo
w Discount rate  2.9% - 8.3% (6.3%)
         Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
  12.0% - 31.6% (18.0%)
         Probability of default
  0.1% - 4.0% (0.7%)
         Loss Severity  8.0% - 64.0% (38.2%) 
           Asset-backed securities    107,419   Discounted cash flo
w Discount rate  3.7% - 15.5% (8.1%)
         Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
  5.7% - 5.7% (5.7%)
         Cumulative prepayment rate
  0.0% - 100% (16.6%)
         Constant default
  1.4% - 4.0% (2.8%)
         Cumulative defaul
t  0.5% - 100% (18.2%)
         Loss given default
  20% - 100% (93.7%) 
         Cure given deferral
  0.0% - 75% (35.8%) 
         Loss severity
  49.0% - 69.0% (63.5%) 
           Automobile loans 
   52,286 
  Discounted cash flo
w Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
  79.2%
         Discount rate  0.3% - 5.0% (1.5%)
           Impaired loans 
   114,256   Appraisal value NA 
  NA 
           Other real estate owned 
   27,664 
  Appraisal value NA 
  NA 
            The following provides a general 
description of the impact of a change in an u
nobservable input on the 
fair value measurement 
and the interrelationship between
 unobservable inputs, 
where relevant/significant.  Interrelationships may also exist between 
observable and unobservable inputs.  Such relationships have not been included in the discussion below. 
 
A significant change in the unobservable in
puts may result in a significant change in the ending fair value measurement of Leve
l 3 instruments.  In general, prepayment ra
tes increase when market interest rates decline and decrease when market interest rate
s rise and higher prepayment rates gene
rally result in lower fair values for MSR a
ssets, Private-label CMO securities, Asset-backed 
securities, and auto
mobile loans.   
   171 
 Credit loss estimates, such as probability of de
fault, constant default, cumulative defau
lt, loss given default, cure given def
erral, 
and loss severity, are driven 
by the ability of the borrowers to
 pay their loans and the valu
e of the underlying collateral and
 are 
impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, typically incr
easing when economic conditions 
worsen and decreasing when 
conditions improve.  An increas
e in the estimated prepayment r
ate typically results in a decrease in estimated credit losses an
d vice versa.  Higher credit loss estimates generally result in lower fa
ir values.  Credit spreads gene
rally increase when liquidity risks and 
market volatility increase and decreas
e when liquidity conditions an
d market volatility improve.   
 Discount rates and spread over forward inter
est rate swap rates typically increase when 
market interest rates increase and/or c
redit 
and liquidity risks increase and decrease wh
en market interest rates declin
e and/or credit and liquidity
 conditions improve.  H
igher 
discount rates and credit spreads generally 
result in lower fair market values.   
 Net market price and pull through percentages generally increase when market interest rates increase and decline when market 
interest rates decline.  Higher net mark
et price and pull through percentages gene
rally result in higher fair values. 
 Fair values of financial instruments  
 The following table provides the 
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of Huntington™s financial instruments that are carr
ied either at fair value or cost at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012: 
      December 31, 2013
   December 31, 2012
      Carrying 
  Fair 
   Carrying   Fair (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Amount
  Value 
   Amount
  Value 
Financial Assets:
                  Cash and short-term assets 
$ 1,058,175  $ 1,058,175   $  1,333,727 $ 1,333,727   Trading account securities 
  35,573 
   35,573 
 91,205
   91,205 
  Loans held for sale 
  326,212    326,212  764,309   773,013   Available-for-sale and other securities 
  7,308,753    7,308,753  7,566,175   7,566,175   Held-to-maturity securities 
  3,836,667    3,760,898  1,743,876   1,794,105   Net loans and direct financing leases 
  42,472,630 
   40,976,014 
 39,959,350
   38,401,965 
  Derivatives 
  200,029    200,029  385,697   385,697 Financial Liabilities:
                  Deposits    47,506,718 
   48,132,550 
 46,252,683
   46,330,715 
  Short-term borrowings  
  552,143    543,552  589,814   584,671   Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
  1,808,293    1,808,558  1,008,959   1,008,959   Other long term debt 
  1,349,119    1,342,890  158,784   156,719   Subordinated notes 
  1,100,860    1,073,116  1,197,091   1,183,827   Derivatives 
  129,274    129,274  152,188   152,188  The following table presents the level in the 
fair value hierarchy for the estimated fair
 values of only Huntington™s financial
 instruments that are not already on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012: 

 Estimated Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Balance at
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Level 1   Level 2    Level 3     December 31, 2013
Financial Assets 
                  Loans held for sale 
$ ---  $ ---  $ ---   $   ---   Held-to-maturity securities 
  ---    3,760,898 
    ---      3,760,898 
  Net loans and direct financing leases 
  ---    ---     40,976,014 
     40,976,014 
Financial liabilities
                     Deposits 
  ---     42,279,542 
     5,853,008 
     48,132,550 
  Short-term borrowings 
  ---     ---      543,552 
     543,552 
  Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
  ---     ---      1,808,558 
     1,808,558 
  Other long-term debt 
  ---     ---      1,342,890 
     1,342,890 
  Subordinated notes 
  ---     ---      1,073,116 
     1,073,116 
                       172 
 Estimated Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Balance at (dollar amounts in thousands)
   Level 1   Level 2    Level 3     December 31, 2012
Financial Assets
                   Loans held for sale 
$ ---   $ ---   $ 316,007 
  $   316,007 
  Held-to-maturity securities 
  ---     1,794,105 
     ---      1,794,105 
  Net loans and direct financing leases 
  ---     ---      38,259,203 
     38,259,203 
Financial liabilities
                      Deposits 
  ---     39,136,127 
     7,194,588 
     46,330,715 
  Short-term borrowings 
  ---     ---      584,671 
     584,671 
  Other long-term debt 
  ---     2,124 
     154,595 
     156,719 
  Subordinated notes 
  ---     ---      1,183,827 
     1,183,827 
 The short-term nature of certain assets and liabilities result in 
their carrying value approximating fair value. These include 
trading 
account securities, customers™ acceptance liabilities, short-term borrowings, bank acceptances outstanding, FHLB advances, and 
cash 
and short-term assets, which include cash and due from banks, inte
rest-bearing deposits in banks, and federal funds sold and se
curities purchased under resale agreements. Loan comm
itments and letters of credit generally have
 short-term, variable-rate features and
 contain clauses that limit Huntington™s exposure to changes in customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, whi
ch are immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of fair value. Not all the financial instruments lis
ted in the 
table above are subject to the disclosure provisions of ASC Topic 820. 
 Certain assets, the most significant being operating lease assets, 
bank owned life insurance, and premises and equipment, do no
t meet the definition of a financial instrument and are excluded fr
om this disclosure. Similarly, mortgage and nonmortgage servic
ing 
rights, deposit base, and other customer re
lationship intangibles are not considered 
financial instruments and are not included
 above. 
Accordingly, this fair value information is 
not intended to, and does not,
 represent Huntington™s unde
rlying value. Many of the
 assets 
and liabilities subject to the disclos
ure requirements are not actively traded, requir
ing fair values to be estimated by Manage
ment. 
These estimations necessarily involve the 
use of judgment about a wide
 variety of factors, including but not limited to, releva
ncy of 
market prices of comparable instruments, expected future
 cash flows, and approp
riate discount rates.  
 The following methods and assumptions were us
ed by Huntington to estimate the fair va
lue of the remaining classes of financial 
instruments: 
 
Held-to-maturity securities 
Fair values are determined by using mode
ls that are based on security-specific de
tails, as well as relevan
t industry and econom
ic factors. The most significant of these inputs are quoted market pri
ces, and interest rate spreads on relevant benchmark securit
ies.  
Loans and Direct Financing Leases 
Variable-rate loans that reprice frequently are based on carrying amounts, as adjusted for estimated credit losses. The fair va
lues for 
other loans and leases are estimated using discounted cash flow anal
yses and employ interest rate
s currently being offered for 
loans 
and leases with similar terms. The rates take 
into account the position of th
e yield curve, as well as an adjustment for prepay
ment risk, 
operating costs, and profit. This value is also reduced by an
 estimate of expected losses and the credit risk associated in the
 loan and 
lease portfolio. The valuation of 
the loan portfolio reflected discounts that Huntin
gton believed are cons
istent with transacti
ons occurring in the market place.  

 Deposits 
Demand deposits, savings accounts, and money market deposits are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand. The fai
r values of fixed-rate time deposits are es
timated by discounting cash flows using intere
st rates currently being offered on cert
ificates with similar maturities.  
 
Debt 
Fixed-rate, long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices, 
which are inclusive of Huntington™s credit risk. In the absence 
of quoted market prices, discounted cash flows using market rates for similar debt with the same maturities are used in the determ
ination of fair value. 
   173 
 20.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in accrued 
income and other assets or accrued 
expenses and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value. 
 Derivatives used in Asset and Liability Management Activities  
 Huntington engages in balance sheet hedging activity, principa
lly for asset liability managemen
t purposes, to convert fixed 
rate assets or liabilities into floating rate or vice versa. Ba
lance sheet hedging activity is arra
nged to receive hedge accoun
ting 
treatment and is classified as either fair value or cash flow he
dges. Fair value hedges are purc
hased to convert deposits and 
subordinated and other long-term debt from 
fixed-rate obligations to floating rate. Ca
sh flow hedges are used to convert floati
ng rate loans made to customers into fixed rate loans. 
 The following table presents the gross no
tional values of derivatives used in Huntington™s asset and liability management 
activities at December 31, 2013, identified by th
e underlying interest rate-sensitive instruments:       Fair Value    Cash Flow 
    (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Hedges
    Hedges 
  Total 
Instruments associated with:
                Loans 
$ --- 
  $  8,548,000  $ 8,548,000   Deposits 
  96,300 
     --- 
   96,300 
  Subordinated notes 
  598,000      --- 
   598,000   Other long-term debt 
  1,285,000      --- 
   1,285,000 Total notional value at December 31, 2013
 $ 1,979,300   $  8,548,000  $ 10,527,300 
 The following table presents additional inform
ation about the interest rate swaps and cap
s used in Huntington™s asset and liabi
lity management activities at De
cember 31, 2013: 
         Average
      Weighted-Average 
     Notional 
 Maturity  Fair   Rate (dollar amounts in thousands )
   Value  (years)   Value 
  Receive Pay Asset conversion swaps 
                      Receive fixed - generic 
$ 8,548,000  2.8  
 $ (31,446)
   0.93 
% 0.40 
%Liability conversion swaps 
                      Receive fixed - generic 
  1,979,300  3.7  
   56,123 
   2.14 
   0.27 
  Total swap portfolio
 $ 10,527,300 
 3.0  
 $ 24,677 
   1.16 
% 0.37 
% These derivative financial instruments were 
entered into for the purpose of managing th
e interest rate risk of assets and liabi
lities. Consequently, net amounts receivable or paya
ble on contracts hedging either interest
 earning assets or interest bearing liabili
ties were accrued as an adjustment to either interest income or interest expense. The net amounts resulted in an increase to net interest
 income 
of $95.4 million, $107.5 m
illion, and $113.9 million for the years ended December
 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.   
 In connection with the sale of
 Huntington's Class B Visa
 shares, Huntington entered into a sw
ap agreement with the purchaser of 
the shares.  The swap agreement adjusts 
for dilution in the co
nversion ratio of Class B 
shares resulting from the Visa
 litigation.  At 
December 31, 2013, the fair value of the swap liability of $0.4 million is an estimate of the exposure liability based upon Hun
tington™s 
assessment of the potential Visa
 litigation losses. 
 The following table presents the fair values at December 31, 2013 and 2012 of Huntington™s derivatives that are designated and 
not designated as hedging instruments. Amounts in the table below 
are presented gross without the impact of any net collateral 
arrangements: 
 174 
 Asset derivatives included in accrued income and other assets
      December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
  2012 
 Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments 
$  49,998  
 $ 169,222  
Interest rate contracts not designated as hedging instruments  
   169,047  
   296,295  
Foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
   28,499  
   5,605  
Commodity contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
   4,278  
   ---  
Total contracts
 $  251,822  
 $ 471,122             Liability derivatives included in accrued expenses and other liabilities
       December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
  2012 
 Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments 
$  25,321  
 $ ---  
Interest rate contracts not designated as hedging instruments  
   99,247  
   228,757  
Foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
   18,909  
   4,655  
Commodity contracts not designated as hedging instruments 
   3,838  
   ---  
Total contracts
 $  147,315  
 $ 233,412  The changes in fair value of the fair value hedges are, to the ex
tent that the hedging relationship is effective, recorded thro
ugh 
earnings and offset against changes in
 the fair value of the hedged item. 
 The following table presents the change in fair value for deriva
tives designated as fair value hedges as well as the offsetting
 change in fair value on the hedged item: 
      Year ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
     2012  
  2011  
Interest rate contracts
               Change in fair value of interest
 rate swaps hedging deposits (1) 
$ (4,006)
  $  (2,526)
 $ 801 
  Change in fair value of hedged deposits (1) 
  4,003 
     2,601 
   (1,050)
  Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging subordinated notes (2) 
  (44,699)
     1,432 
   45,480 
  Change in fair value of hedged subordinated notes (2) 
  44,699 
     (1,432)
   (45,480)
  Change in fair value of interest rate
 swaps hedging other long-term debt (2) 
  (5,716)
     114 
   2,493 
  Change in fair value of hedged other long-term debt (2) 
  6,843 
     (114)
   (2,493)
(1) Effective portion of the hedgi
ng relationship is recognized in Interest expense - deposits 
in the Consolid
ated Statements o
f Income.  Any resulting 
ineffective portion of the hedging r
elationship is recognized in nonint
erest income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income.  
                 (2) Effective portion of the hedging relationship is recognized 
in Interest expense - subordinated notes and other-long-term de
bt in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income.  Any resulting ineffective po
rtion of the hedging relationship 
is recognized in noninterest 
income 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
 To the extent these derivatives are effect
ive in offsetting the variability of the hedg
ed cash flows, changes in the derivative
s™ fair value will not be included in current earnings but are reported as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statements of Shareho
lders™ 
Equity. These changes in fair va
lue will be included in earnings of future peri
ods when earnings are als
o affected by the chang
es in the 
hedged cash flows. To the extent these derivatives are not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in 

noninterest income.  
   175 
 The following table presents the gains and (losses) recognized in OCI and the location in the Consolidated Statements of Income
 of gains and (losses) reclassified from OCI into earnings
 for derivatives designated as effective cash flow hedges: 
 Derivatives in cash 
flow hedging 
relationships   Amount of gain or (loss) 
recognized in OCI on 
derivatives (effective portion)
 Location of gain or (loss) 
reclassified from accumulated 
OCI into earnings (effective 
portion) 
  Amount of (gain) or loss 
reclassified from accumulated 
OCI into earnings (effective 
portion) (pre-tax) 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013 
     2012  
   2011  
     2013  
    2012  
  2011  
Interest rate contracts
                                   Loans 
$ (56,056)
 $ (2,866)  $ 2,469 
 Interest and fee income - loans and 
leases $ (14,979)
  $ 14,849  $3,080
  Investment securities 
  ---
   (703)
    703 
 Interest and fee income - 
investment securities 
 (209)
    ---
  ---
  Subordinated notes 
  ---
   ---
    ---
 Interest expense - subordinated 
notes and other long-term debt 
 ---
    143 
  27Total
 $ (56,056)
 $ (3,569)  $ 3,172 
   $ (15,188)
  $ 14,992  $3,107
 Reclassified gains and losses on swaps r
elated to loans and investment securities 
and swaps related to subordinated debt are 
recorded within interest income and interest expense, respectively. During the next twel
ve months, Huntington expects to reclas
sify to 
earnings $26.4 million after-tax, of unrealized gains 
on cash flow hedging derivatives currently in OCI. 
 The following table presents the gains and (losses) recognized 
in noninterest income for the ineffective portion of interest ra
te contracts for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the years ending December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
       December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012  
  2011  
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships
               Interest rate contracts
                 Loans 
$  878 
  $  (179)
 $ 98  Derivatives used in trading activities 
 Various derivative financial instruments are offered to enable cu
stomers to meet their financin
g and investing objectives and f
or 
their risk management purposes. Derivativ
e financial instruments used in trading 
activities consisted predominantly of interest
 rate swaps, but also included interest rate caps, floors, and futures, as well 
as foreign exchan
ge options and commodity contracts. 
Interest 
rate options grant the option holder the right to buy or sell an
 underlying financial instrument
 for a predetermined price before the 
contract expires. Interest rate futures are commitments to either
 purchase or sell a financial instrument at a future date for 
a specified 
price or yield and may be settled in cash or through delivery of 
the underlying financial instrumen
t. Interest rate caps and fl
oors are 
option-based contracts that entitle the buyer to receive cash payments based on the difference between a designated reference r
ate and 
a strike price, applied to a notional amount. Written options, prima
rily caps, expose Huntington 
to market risk but not credit 
risk. Purchased options contain both credit and mar
ket risk.  The interest rate risk of these 
customer derivatives is mitigated by entering into 
similar derivatives having offsetting term
s with other counterparties. The credit risk to these customers is evaluated and incl
uded in the calculation of fair value. 
 The net fair values of these derivative financial instruments, for which the gross amounts are included in accrued income and 
other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities at December 31, 2013 and 2012, were $80.5 million and $63.4 million, 
respectively. The total notional values of de
rivative financial instruments used by Hun
tington on behalf of customers, includin
g offsetting derivatives, were $14.3 billion and $12.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Huntington™s credit r
isks 
from interest rate swaps used for trading purposes were $160.
4 million and $296.1 million at the same dates, respectively. 
 Financial assets and liabilities that are offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets  
 
Huntington records derivatives at fair value as further describe
d in Note 19. Huntington record
s these derivatives net of any 
master netting arrangement in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
Collateral agreements are regularly entered into as part of th
e underlying derivative agreements with
 Huntington™s counterparties to m
itigate counterparty credit risk.  
   176 
 All derivatives are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.  Derivative balances are presented on a net basis
 taking into consideration the effects of leg
ally enforceable master ne
tting agreements.  Cash collater
al exchanged with counter
parties is also netted against the applicable derivative fair values.  Huntington enters into derivative 
transactions with two primary 
groups: 
broker-dealers and banks, and Huntington™s customers.  Different methods are utilized for managing counterparty credit exposure
 and 
credit risk for each of these groups.  
 Huntington enters into transactions with broker-dealers and 
banks for various risk management purposes.  These types of 
transactions generally are high dollar volume. Huntington enters into bilateral collateral and master netting agreements with t
hese counterparties, and routinely exchange cash 
and high quality securities collateral with 
these counterparties.   Huntington ente
rs into 
transactions with customers to meet their financing, investing, 
payment and risk management needs.  These types of transactions
 generally are low dollar volume. Huntington generally enters in
to master netting agreements with customer counterparties, howev
er collateral is generally not exchanged with customer counterparties. 
 At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, aggregate credit risk associated with these derivatives, net of collateral that has
 been pledged by the counterparty, was $15.2
 million and $17.4 million, respectively. The credit risk associated with interest r
ate swaps is calculated after considering master netting agreements with broker-dealers and banks.  

 At December 31, 2013, Huntington pledged $113.7 million of investment securities and cash collateral to counterparties, while 
other counterparties pledged $9
8.2 million of investment securities and cash co
llateral to Huntington to satisfy collateral net
ting 
agreements.  In the event of 
credit downgrades, Huntington would not be
 required to provide additional collateral. 
 The following tables present the gross amounts of these assets and liabilities with any offsets to arrive at the net amounts re
cognized in 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:
  Offsetting of Financial Assets and Derivative Assets
                              Gross amounts not offset in 
the consolidated balance 
sheets 
   (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Gross amounts 
of recognized 
assets  Gross amounts 
offset in the consolidated 
balance sheets Net amounts o
f assets presented in 
the consolidated 
balance sheets Financial instruments 
  cash collateral received 
 Net amount
Offsetting of Financial Assets and Derivative Assets 
             December 31, 2013 
Derivatives 
$  300,903 $ (111,458)
$ 189,445 $ (35,205)
$  (360)
$ 153,880 December 31, 2012
 Derivatives 
   473,374   (101,620)
  371,754   (62,409)
   (755)
  308,590                        Offsetting of Financial Liabilities and Derivative Liabilities
                            Gross amounts not offset in 
the consolidated balance 
sheets 
   (dollar amounts in thousands)
 Gross amounts 
of recognized 
liabilities  Gross amounts 
offset in the consolidated 
balance sheets Net amounts o
f assets presented in 
the consolidated 
balance sheets Financial instruments 
  cash collateral received 
 Net amount
Offsetting of Financial Liabilities and Derivative Liabilities 
            December 31, 2013 
Derivatives 
$  196,397$ (76,539)
$ 119,858$ (86,204)
$  290 
$ 33,944 
December 31, 2012 
Derivatives 
   235,664  (85,667)
  149,997  (97,233)
   (455)
  52,309 
   177 
 Derivatives used in mortgage banking activities 
 Huntington also uses certain derivative fina
ncial instruments to offset changes in va
lue of its residential MSRs.  These deriva
tives 
consist primarily of forward interest rate agreements and forward co
mmitments to deliver mortgage-backed securities.  The deriv
ative 
instruments used are not designated as hedges.  Accordingly, such
 derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes in fair v
alue reflected in mortgage banking income
.  The following table summarizes
 the derivative assets and liabilities used in mortgage banking 
activities: 
       At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
  2012  
Derivative assets: 
         Interest rate lock agreements 
$  3,066 
$ 13,180 
  Forward trades and options 
   3,997 
  763 
Total derivative assets
    7,063 
  13,943 
Derivative liabilities: 
         Interest rate lock agreements 
   (231)
  (33)
  Forward trades and options 
   (40)
  (2,158)
Total derivative liabilities    (271)
  (2,191)
Net derivative asset (liability)
 $  6,792 
$ 11,752 
 The total notional value of these derivative financial instru
ments at December 31, 2013 an
d 2012, was $0.5 billion and $2.3 
billion, respectively.  The total notional amount at December 31, 2013 corresponds to trading assets with a fair value of $0.9 
million 
and trading liabilities with a fair value of 
$1.1 million. Net trading gains (losses)
 related to MSR hedging for the years ende
d December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, were $(25.0) million, $31.3 million, and $42.1 million, respectively.  These amounts are 
included in mortgage banking income in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 21.  VIEs 
 Consolidated VIEs  
 Consolidated VIEs at December 31, 2013 consisted of automobile loan and lease securitization trusts formed in 2009 and 2006.  
Huntington has determined the trusts are VIEs.  Huntington has co
ncluded that it is the primary beneficiary of these trusts bec
ause it 
has the power to direct the activities of th
e entity that most significantly affect 
the entity™s economic performance and it ha
s either the 
obligation to absorb losses of
 the entity that could potentially be significant to
 the VIE or the right to receive benefits fro
m the entity 
that could potentially be sign
ificant to the VIE.   
 The following tables present th
e carrying amount and classification of the cons
olidated trusts™ assets and liabilities that wer
e included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013 and 2012: 
           2009  
  2006  
    Other 
              Automobile
  Automobile 
    Consolidated
              Trust   Trust     Trusts   Total 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
      December 31, 2013 
Assets:                         Cash      $ 8,580 
 $ 79,153 
  $  --- 
 $ 87,733 
  Loans and leases 
       52,286 
   151,171      --- 
   203,457   Allowance for loan and lease losses 
       --- 
   (711)
     --- 
   (711)
  Net loans and leases 
       52,286 
   150,460      --- 
   202,746   Accrued income and other assets 
       235 
   485 
     262 
   982 
Total assets      $ 61,101 
 $ 230,098   $  262 
 $ 291,461 Liabilities:                         Other long-term debt 
     $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  --- 
 $ --- 
  Accrued interest and other liabilities 
       --- 
   --- 
     262 
   262 
Total liabilities      $ --- 
 $ --- 
  $  262 
 $ 262 
  178 
           2009  
  2006  
    Other 
              Automobile
  Automobile 
    Consolidated
              Trust   Trust     Trusts   Total (dollar amounts in thousands)
      December 31, 2012 
Assets:                         Cash      $ 12,577 
 $ 91,113 
  $  --- 
 $ 103,690   Loans and leases 
       142,762    356,162      --- 
   498,924   Allowance for loan and lease losses 
       --- 
   (2,671)
     --- 
   (2,671)
  Net loans and leases 
       142,762    353,491      --- 
   496,253   Accrued income and other assets 
       617 
   1,353 
     288 
   2,258 
Total assets      $ 155,956  $ 445,957   $  288 
 $ 602,201 Liabilities:                         Other long-term debt 
     $ --- 
 $ 2,086 
  $  --- 
 $ 2,086 
  Accrued interest and other liabilities 
       --- 
   1      288 
   289 
Total liabilities 
     $ --- 
 $ 2,087 
  $  288 
 $ 2,375 
 Huntington services the loans and leases and uses the proceeds from principal 
and interest payments to pay the securitized note
s during the amortization period.  All secur
itized notes were repaid prior to December
 21, 2013. Huntington has not provided fina
ncial or other support that was not prev
iously contractually required.  
 Unconsolidated VIEs 
 The following tables provide a su
mmary of assets and liabilities included in Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements, as
 well as the maximum exposure to losses associated with interests 
related to unconsolidated VIEs 
for which Huntington holds an 
interest, but is not the primary beneficiary 
to the VIE at December 31, 2013 and 2012. 
     December 31, 2013 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Total Assets  Total Liabilities
   Maximum Exposure to Loss
 2012-1 Automobile Trust
 $ 5,975 
$ --- 
$  5,975
2012-2 Automobile Trust
   7,396 
  --- 
   7,396
2011 Automobile Trust
   3,040 
  --- 
   3,040
Tower Hill Securities, Inc.
   66,702 
  65,000 
   66,702
Trust Preferred Securities   13,764 
  312,894    ---
Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnerships
   390,639   144,376    390,639Total $ 487,516 $ 522,270 $  473,752                  December 31, 2012 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Total Assets  Total Liabilities   Maximum Exposure to Loss
 2012-1 Automobile Trust 
$ 12,649 
$ --- 
$  12,649
2012-2 Automobile Trust 
  13,616 
  --- 
   13,616
2011 Automobile Trust 
  7,076 
  --- 
   7,076
Tower Hill Securities, Inc. 
  87,075 
  65,000 
   87,075
Trust Preferred Securities   13,764 
  312,894    ---
Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnerships 
  391,878   152,047    391,878Total $ 526,058 $ 529,941 $  512,294  179 
 2012-1 AUTOMOBILE TRUST, 2012-2 AUTOMOBILE TRUST, and 2011 AUTOMOBILE TRUST 
 During the 2012 first and fo
urth quarters, and 2011 third quarter, we tran
sferred automobile loan
s totaling $1.0 billion, $1.3 
billion, and $1.0 billion, resp
ectively to trusts in separate securitization tr
ansactions. The securitizations and the resultin
g sale of all 
underlying securities qualified for sale accountin
g. Huntington has concluded that it is
 not the primary beneficiary of these t
rusts because it has neither the obligation to absorb losses of the entities that could potentially be significant to the VIEs nor th
e right to 
receive benefits from the entities that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. Huntington is not required and does not c
urrently 
intend to provide any additional financial sup
port to the trusts. Investors
 and creditors only have 
recourse to the assets held
 by the 
trusts.  The interest Huntington holds in the VIEs relates to servicing rights which are included within accrued income and oth
er assets 
of Huntington™s Consolidated Ba
lance Sheets.  The maximum exposure to loss is 
equal to the carrying value of the servicing asse
t.  TOWER HILL SECURITIES, INC. 
 In 2010, we transferred approximately $92.1 mill
ion of municipal securities, 
$86.0 million in Huntingt
on Preferred Capital, Inc
. (Real Estate Investment Trust) Class E Preferred Stock and cash of $6.1 million to Tower Hill S
ecurities, Inc. in exchange for 
$184.1 
million of Common and Preferred Stock of Towe
r Hill Securities, Inc. The municipal secur
ities and the REIT Shares will be used 
to satisfy $65.0 million of mandatorily redeemable securities issued by
 Tower Hill Securities, Inc. and are not available to satis
fy the 
general debts and obligations of 
Huntington or any consolidated affiliates. The tran
sfer was recorded as a secured financing.  
Interests 
held by Huntington consist of municipal 
securities within available for sale and other securities and Series B preferred securi
ties within other long term debt of Huntington™
s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The maximum 
exposure to loss is equal to the carrying
 value of the municipal securities.
  TRUST-PREFERRED SECURITIES  Huntington has certain wholly-owned trusts whose assets, liab
ilities, equity, income, and expens
es are not included within 
Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statemen
ts.  These trusts have been formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust-preferred 
securities, from which the proceeds are then invested in Huntington junior subordinated debentures, which are reflected in 

Huntington™s Consolidated Balance Sheet as subordinated notes.  The trust securities are the obligations of the trusts, and as 
such, are not consolidated within Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Stat
ements.  A list of trust-preferred securities outstanding at De
cember 
31, 2013 follows: 
         Principal amount of Investment in 
        subordinated note/
 unconsolidated 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 Rate
 debenture issued to trust (1) 
subsidiary Huntington Capital I 0.94 
% (2) 
  $ 111,816     $  6,186 
 Huntington Capital II 0.87 
% (3) 
     54,593 
      3,093 
 Sky Financial Capital Trust III 
1.65 
% (4) 
     72,165 
      2,165 
 Sky Financial Capital Trust IV 
1.65 
% (4) 
     74,320 
      2,320 
 Total
       $ 312,894     $  13,764 
(1) 
Represents the principal amount of debentures issued to 
each trust, including unamortized original issue discount. 
(2) 
Variable effective rate at December 31, 2013, based on three month LIBOR + 0.70. 
 (3) 
Variable effective rate at December 31, 
2013, based on three month LIBOR + 0.625. 
 (4) 
Variable effective rate at December 31, 2013, based on three month LIBOR + 1.40. 
  Each issue of the junior subordinated debent
ures has an interest rate equal to the 
corresponding trust securities distribution 
rate.  Huntington has the right to de
fer payment of interest on the debentures at any 
time, or from time-to-time for a period not exce
eding 
five years provided that no exte
nsion period may extend beyond th
e stated maturity of the relate
d debentures.  During any such 
extension period, distributions to the trust securities will also be deferred and 
Huntington™s ability to pay dividends on its 
common 
stock will be restricted.  Periodic cash payments and payments 
upon liquidation or redemption w
ith respect to trust securities 
are 
guaranteed by Huntington to the ex
tent of funds held by the trusts.  The guarantee
 ranks subordinate and junior in right of pay
ment to 
all indebtedness of the Company to the same extent as the junior subordinated debt.  The guarantee does not place a limitation 
on the 
amount of additional indebtedness that may be incurred by Huntington. 
   180 
 LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT PARTNERSHIPS 
 Huntington makes certain equity investments in various limite
d partnerships that sponsor a
ffordable housing projects utilizing 
the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) pursuant to Section 42 of 
the Internal Revenue Code.  The purpose of these investments is
 to achieve a satisfactory return on cap
ital, to facilitate the sale of additional affordable housing product 
offerings, and to assist in achieving goals associated with th
e Community Reinvestment Act.  The primary activit
ies of the limited partnerships include the
 identification, development, and 
operation of multi family housing that is leas
ed to qualifying residential tenants.  Generally
, these types of investments are funded through 
a combination of debt and equity.   
Huntington is a limited partner in each Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnership.  A separate unrelated third party is the 
general partner.  Each limited partnership is managed by the ge
neral partner, who exercises full 
and exclusive control over the
 affairs 
of the limited partnership.  The general partner has all the right
s, powers and authority granted 
or permitted to be granted to
 a general 
partner of a limited partnership under the Ohio Revised Uniform 
Limited Partnership Act.  Duties entrusted to the general partn
er of each limited partnership include, but are not limited to: investment in operating companies, company expenditures, investment o
f excess funds, borrowing fu
nds, employment of agents, disposition of fund pr
operty, prepayment and refinancing of liabilities, v
otes and consents, contract authority, disbursem
ent of funds, accounting methods, tax 
elections, bank accounts, insurance, litigation, cash reserve, and use of working capital reserve funds.  Except for limited rights granted to consent to certain transactions, the l
imited 
partner(s) may not participate in the operation, management, or
 control of the limited partnership's business, transact any bus
iness in 
the limited partnership's name or have any 
power to sign documents for or otherwise bi
nd the limited partnership.  In addition,
 the 
general partner may only be removed by the limited partner(s) in 
the event the general partner fails to comply with the terms o
f the 
agreement and/or is neglig
ent in performing its duties. 
Huntington believes the general partner of each limited partnershi
p has the power to direct the 
activities which most significa
ntly 
affect their performance of each partnership, therefore, Huntington
 has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of an
y LIHTC 
partnership.  Huntington uses the equity
 or effective yield method to account for its investments in these entities.  These inv
estments 
are included in accrued income and other assets.  At December 31, 2013 and 2012, Huntington has commitments of $556.9 million 
(net of amortization: $390.6) and 
$532.1 million (net of amortizati
on: $391.9), respectively, of 
which $412.5 million and $380.
0 million, respectively, were funded.  Th
e unfunded portion is included in 
accrued expenses and other liabilities. 
 22.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
 Commitments to extend credit
  In the ordinary course of business, Huntington makes various commitments to exte
nd credit that are not reflected in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The contract amounts of these financial agreements at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 
2012, were as follows:  
         At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
   2012 
 Contract amount represents credit risk
          Commitments to extend credit: 
           Commercial 
$  10,198,327 
$ 9,209,094     Consumer 
   6,544,606   6,189,447     Commercial real estate    765,982   797,605   Standby letters of credit    439,834   514,705  Commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration da
tes, are variable-rate, and cont
ain clauses that permit Huntingt
on 
to terminate or otherwise renegotiate the c
ontracts in the event of a significant de
terioration in the customer™s credit qualit
y. These arrangements normally require the payment of a fee by the cust
omer, the pricing of which is 
based on prevailing market conditio
ns, credit quality, probability of funding, and ot
her relevant factors. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire with
out 
being drawn upon, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash requirements. The interest rate risk arisi
ng from 
these financial instruments is insign
ificant as a result of their predominan
tly short-term, variable-rate nature. 
 Standby letters-of-credit are conditional commitments issued to 
guarantee the performance of a borrower to a third party. These
 guarantees are primarily issued to support 
public and private borrowing arrangements, 
including commercial paper, bond financin
g, 
and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature w
ithin two years. The carrying am
ount of deferred revenue associate
d with these guarantees was $2.1 million and $1.4 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
   181 
 Through the Company™s credit process, Hun
tington monitors the credit 
risks of outstanding standb
y letters-of-credit. When it is
 probable that a standby letter-of-credit will be drawn and not repa
id in full, losses are recognized in the provision for credi
t losses.  At 
December 31, 2013, Huntington had $440 million of standby letters-of-credit outstanding, of which 84% were collateralized.   
Included in this $440 million total are letters
-of-credit issued by the Bank
 that support securities th
at were issued by custom
ers and remarketed by The Huntington Investment Company, the Company™s broker-dealer subsidiary.   
 Huntington uses an internal loan grading 
system to assess an estimate of loss on its
 loan and lease portfo
lio.  The same loan 
grading system is used to help monitor credit risk associated 
with standby letters-of-credit.  Under this risk rating system as
 of December 31, 2013, approximately $96 million of the standby letters-of-credit were rated strong with sufficient asset quality, 

liquidity, and good debt capacity and coverage, approximately $343 million were 
rated average with acceptable asset quality, 
liquidity, and modest debt capacity; and none were rated substa
ndard with negative financial tr
ends, structural weaknesses, ope
rating difficulties, and higher leverage. 
 Commercial letters-of-credit represent short-term, self-liquidatin
g instruments that facilitate custom
er trade transactions and generally have maturities of no longer th
an 90 days. The goods or cargo being trad
ed normally secures 
these instruments. 
 Commitments to sell loans  
 Huntington enters into forward contracts relating to its mortga
ge banking business to hedge the exposures from commitments to 
make new residential mortgage loans with existing customers and from mortgage loans classified as loans held for sale. At Decem
ber 31, 2013 and 2012, Huntingt
on had commitments to sell 
residential real estate loans of $4
52.6 million and $849.8 million, 
respectively. These contracts mature in less than one year. 
 Litigation  The nature of Huntington™s business ordinarily results in a 
certain amount of claims, litigation, investigations, and legal and
 administrative cases and proceedings, all of which are considered in
cidental to the normal conduct of
 business.  When the Compa
ny 
determines it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted
, it vigorously defends itself. Th
e Company will consider settleme
nt of cases when, in Management™s judgment, it 
is in the best interests of both the Company and its
 shareholders to do so. 
 On at least a quarterly basis, Huntington assesses its liabilities 
and contingencies in connection with outstanding legal proce
edings 
utilizing the latest information available
.  For matters where it is probable, the Company will incur a loss 
and the amount can
 be reasonably estimated, Huntington establishes an accrual for the loss.  Once established, the accrual is adjusted as appropriate
 to reflect 
any relevant developments.  For matters where a loss is not prob
able or the amount of the loss cannot be estimated, no accrual 
is established.  In certain cases, exposure to loss exists in excess of the accrual to the extent such loss is reasonably possible, but not prob
able.  Management believes an estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses, in excess of amounts accrued, for current
 legal proceedings is from $0 to approximately $120.0 million at December 31, 2013. For certain other cases, Management cannot 

reasonably estimate the possible loss at th
is time. Any estimate involves significant j
udgment, given the varying stages of the
 proceedings (including the fact
 that many of them are currently in preliminary 
stages), the existence of multiple defendants in
 several 
of the current proceedings whose 
share of liability has yet to be determined, th
e numerous unresolved issues in many of the 
proceedings, and the inherent uncertainty of
 the various potential outcomes of such pr
oceedings. Accordingly, Management™s esti
mate 
will change from time-to-time, and actual losses ma
y be more or less than the current estimate.  
 While the final outcome of legal proceedings is inherently uncertain, based on information currently available, advice of couns
el, and available insurance coverage, Management believes that the 
amount it has already accrued is adequate and any incremental 
liability arising from the Company™s legal proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial 

position as a whole.  However, in the ev
ent of unexpected future develo
pments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of t
hese matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the Company™s 
consolidated financial positio
n in a particular period. 
 The following is a discussion of cer
tain legal matters and events occurring 
through the date of this filing:  
The Bank has been a defendant in th
ree lawsuits, which collectively may be ma
terial, arising from its commercial lending, 
depository, and equipment leasing relationships with Cyberco Ho
ldings, Inc. (Cyberco), based in
 Grand Rapids, Michigan. In 
November 2004, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the IRS raided the Cyberco facilities and Cyberco's operations ceased. A
n equipment leasing fraud was uncovered, wh
ereby Cyberco sought financing from equi
pment lessors and financial institutions, 
including the Bank, allegedly to purchase computer equipment from Teleservices Group, Inc. (Teleservices). Cyberco created 

fraudulent documentation to close the financ
ing transactions while, in fact, no computer equipment was ever purchased or leased
 from 
Teleservices which proved to 
be a shell corporation.   
  182 
 On June 22, 2007, a complaint in
 the United States District Cour
t for the Western District of Michigan (District Court) was fil
ed 
by El Camino Resources, Ltd, ePlus Group, 
Inc., and Bank Midwest, N.A., all of whom 
had financing relationships with Cyberco, 
against the Bank, which alleged that Cyberco defrauded plainti
ffs and converted plaintiffs' property through various means in 
connection with the equipment leasing scheme 
and alleged that the Bank aided and abette
d Cyberco in committing the alleged frau
d and conversion. The complaint furt
her alleged that the Bank's actions entitled one of 
the plaintiffs to recover $1.9 million fr
om the 
Bank as a form of unjust enrichment. In addition, plaintiffs claimed direct damages of approximately $32.0 million and addition
al consequential damages in excess of $20.0 million.
 On July 1, 2010, the Di
strict Court issued an Opin
ion and Order adopting in f
ull a federal magistrate's recommendation for summary judgment in favor of the Bank on all cl
aims except the unjust enrichment claim,
 and 
a partial summary judgment was entered on Ju
ly 1, 2010. On February 6, 2012, the Distri
ct Court dismissed the remaining count f
or 
unjust enrichment following a finding by 
the bankruptcy court that the plaintiff must 
pursue its rights, if any, with respect t
o that count 
in a bankruptcy court.  The plai
ntiffs filed a notice of appeal on March 2, 2012
, appealing the District 
Court™s judgment again
st them 
on the aiding and abetting and conv
ersion claims.  Oral arguments before the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals were held January 2
4, 2013, and the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals af
firmed the District Court™s 
judgment in an opinion issued on April 8, 2013.  The
 plaintiffs then filed a motion for rehearing 
en banc, which the Sixth Circuit denied on
 May 30, 2013.  The period for plaintiff
s to seek 
review in the United States Supreme Court has passed, and the case is completed. 
The Bank has also been involved with the Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceedings of both Cyberco, filed on December 9, 2004, and 
Teleservices, filed on January 21, 2005. The 
Cyberco bankruptcy trustee commenced an 
adversary proceeding against the Bank on 
December 8, 2006, seeking over $70.0 million he alleged was transferred to the Bank. The Bank responded with a motion to dismis
s and all but the preference claims were dismissed on January 29, 2
008. The Cyberco bankruptcy trus
tee alleged preferential trans
fers in 
the amount of approximately $1.2 million. The Bankruptcy Court ordered the case to be tried in July 2012, and entered a pretria
l order 
governing all pretrial conduct.  The Bank
 filed a motion for summary judgment based on
 the Cyberco trustee seeking recovery in 
connection with the same alleged transfers as the Teleservices trus
tee in the case described below.
  The Bankruptcy Court grant
ed the 
motion in principal part and the parties stipulated to a 
full dismissal which was ente
red on June 19, 2012.   
The Teleservices bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary proceeding against the Bank on January 19, 2007, seeking to avoid and 
recover alleged transfers that occurred in two ways: (1) checks ma
de payable to the Bank to be applied to Cyberco's indebtednes
s to the Bank, and (2) deposits into 
Cyberco's bank accounts with the 
Bank. A trial was held as to only the Bank™s defenses.  Subseq
uently, 
the trustee filed a summary judg
ment motion on her affirmative 
case, alleging the fraudulent transfers to the Bank totaled 
approximately $73.0 million and seeking judgment in that amount (which includes the $1.2 million alleged to be preferential tra
nsfers 
by the Cyberco bankruptcy trustee). On March 17, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court issued an
 Opinion determining 
the alleged 
transfers
 made to the Bank were not received in good faith from the time period 
of April 30, 2004, through November 2004, and that the Ba
nk 
had failed to show a lack of knowledge of 
the avoidability of the alleged transfers 
from September 2003, th
rough April 30, 2004
.  The 
trustee then filed an amended motion for summary judgment on he
r affirmative case and a hearing was held on July 1, 2011.   
On March 30, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Opinion on the trustee™s motion determining the Bank was the initial 
transferee of the checks made payable to it and was a subsequent transferee of all deposits into Cyberco™s accounts.  The Bankr
uptcy Court ruled Cyberco™s deposits we
re themselves transfers to the 
Bank under the Bankruptcy Code, and the Bank was liable for bot
h the checks and the deposits, totaling approx
imately $73.0 million.  The Bankruptcy Court
 ruled the Bank may be entitled to a cr
edit of 
approximately $4.0 million for the Cyberco trustee™s recoveries in preference actions filed against third parties that received
 payments 
from Cyberco within 
90 days preceding Cyberco™s bankruptcy.  Lastly, the Ba
nkruptcy Court ruled that 
it will award prejudgment 
interest to the Teleservices trustee at a rate to be determined.  A 
trial was held on these remain
ing issues on April 30, 2012,
 and the 
Court gave a bench opinion on July 23, 2012. In that opinion, the Court denied the Bank the $4.0 million credit, but ruled 
approximately $0.9 million in de
posits were either double-counted or were ou
tside the timeframe in which the Teleservices trust
ee can 
recover. Therefore, the Bankruptcy Court™s recommended award was 
reduced by this $0.9 million. Further, the Bankruptcy Court 
ruled the interest rate specified in the federal statute governi
ng post-judgment interest, which
 is based on treasury bill rate
s, will be the 
rate of interest for determining prejudgment inter
est.  The rulings of the Bankruptcy C
ourt in its March 2011 and March 2012 
opinions, as well as its July 23, 2012, bench opinion, were not 
reduced to judgment by the Bankruptcy Court because it lacked 
jurisdiction to enter a judgment.  Rather, the Bankruptcy Cour
t delivered its report and recommendation to the District Court f
or the Western District of Michigan, recommending a judgment be entered in the principal amount of $71.8 million, plus interest throug
h July 27, 2012, in the amount of $8.8 m
illion.  The District Court is conducting a 
de novo
 review of the fact findings and legal 
conclusions in the Bankruptcy Court™s opinions. 
 In the pending bankruptcy cases of Cyberco and Teleservices, th
e Bank moved to substantively consolidate the two bankruptcy 
estates, principally on the ground that Teleser
vices was the alter ego and a mere instru
mentality of Cyberco at all times. On J
uly 2, 
2010, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Op
inion and Order denying the Bank's motions 
for substantive consolidation of the two 
bankruptcy estates.  The Bank appealed that decision to the Bank
ruptcy Appellate Pane
l (BAP) for the Sixth 
Circuit, which ruled that the order denying substantive cons
olidation would not be a final order until the Ba
nkruptcy Court issued its opinion on the Ban
k™s 
defenses in the Teleservices adversary proceeding, and dismissed 
the appeal. The Bank appealed the BAP™s decision to the Sixth 
Circuit. When the Bankruptcy Court issued its March 17, 2010, opinion in the Teleservices adversary proceeding, the Bank again 
183 
 appealed the order denying substantive conso
lidation to the BAP, which appeal was held 
in abeyance pending decision by the Sixt
h Circuit on the appeal of the BAP™
s 2010 order. On August 30, 2
013, the Sixth Circuit affirmed th
e BAP™s 2010 d
ecision dismissin
g the original appeal. The Bank filed a status report with the BAP 
on the second appeal and the trustees moved to dismiss the sec
ond 
appeal on the ground that the Bank
ruptcy Court™s orders denying 
substantive consolidation were 
still not final orders. The BAP 
granted the trustees™ motion in an Order dated December 23, 2013.  
On January 17, 2012, the Compan
y was named a defendant 
in a putative class action filed on be
half of all 88 counties in Ohio 
against MERSCORP, Inc. and numerous other financial institutions th
at participate in the mortgage electronic registration syste
m (MERS).  The complaint alleges that recording of mortgages and assignments thereof is mandatory under Ohio law and seeks a 
declaratory judgment that the defendants are requ
ired to record every mortgage and assi
gnment on real property located in Ohio 
and pay the attendant statutory recording fees. The complaint also seeks damages, attorneys' fees and 
costs.  Althoug
h Huntington h
as not 
been named as a defendant in the other cases, similar litigation 
has been initiated against MERS
CORP, Inc. and other financial 
institutions in other jurisd
ictions throughout the country.  
Commitments Under Operating Lease Obligations  
 At December 31, 2013, Huntington and its subsidiaries were obligated under noncancelable leases for land, buildings, and 
equipment. Many of these leases contain renewal options and certa
in leases provide options to purc
hase the leased property duri
ng or 
at the expiration of the lease period at 
specified prices. Some leases contain escalatio
n clauses calling for rentals to be adj
usted for increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses or pr
oportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other pri
ce indices.  
 The future minimum rental payments required under operating leas
es that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in 
excess of one year as of December 31, 2013, were as follows: $4
8.9 million in 2014, $47.1 million 
in 2015, $43.1 million in 201
6, 
$40.0 million in 2017, $37.1 million in 2018, and $189.0 million thereafter.  At December 31, 2013, total minimum lease payment
s have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $10.1 million due in the future under noncancelable subleases.  At Decembe
r 31, 2013, the future minimum sublease rental payments that Huntington 
expects to receive were as fo
llows: $4.7 mil
lion in 2014,
 $3.0 
million in 2015, $1.2 million in 2016, $0.5 million in 2017, $0.3 million in 2018, and $0.4 million thereafter.  The rental exp
ense for all operating leases was $55.3 million, $54.7 million, and $53.5 mi
llion for 2013, 2012, and 2011, 
respectively. Huntington had
 no 
material obligations under capital leases. 

 23.  OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS 
 Huntington and its bank subsidiary, The 
Huntington National Bank (the Bank), are subject to various regulatory capital 
requirements administered by federal 
and state banking agencies. These requireme
nts involve qualitative ju
dgments and quantitat
ive measures of assets, liabilities, capital amounts, and certain off-
balance sheet items as calculated
 under regulatory accounting
 practices. Failure to meet minimum capital requiremen
ts can initiate certain actions by regulators th
at, if undertaken, could have a mater
ial adverse effect on Hunti
ngton™s and the Bank™s financial statements. App
licable capital adequacy guideli
nes require minimum rati
os of 4.00% for Tier 1 risk-based Capital, 8.00% for total risk-based Ca
pital, and 4.00% for Tier 1 leverage capital. To be considere
d well-capitalized under the regulatory framework for 
prompt corrective action, the ratios must 
be at least 6.00%, 10.00%, and 5.00%, 
respectively.   
 As of December 31, 2013, Huntington and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements and had regulatory capital ratios in 
excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions.  The period-end capital amounts and capital ratios of Hunti
ngton and 
the Bank are as follows: 
   Tier 1 risk-based capital
 Total risk-based capital   Tier 1 leverage capital 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
     2012 
     2013  
   2012 
       2013  
   2012 
  Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
                                 Amount 
$  6,099,629   $  5,741,410    $ 7,239,035   $ 6,928,339     $  6,099,629   $ 5,741,410   Ratio    12.28 
%    12.02 
%   14.57 
% 14.50 
%      10.67 
% 10.36 
%The Huntington National Bank
                               Amount 
$  5,682,067   $  5,003,247    $ 6,520,190   $ 6,093,620     $  5,682,067   $ 5,003,247   Ratio    11.45 
%    10.49 
%   13.14 
% 12.78 
%      9.97 
% 9.05 
%   184 
 Tier 1 risk-based capital consists of total equity plus qualif
ying capital securities and minority
 interest, excluding unrealiz
ed gains 
and losses accumulated in OCI, and non-qua
lifying intangible and servicing assets. Tota
l risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 1 risk-
based capital and qualifying subordinated notes and allowable allowances for cr
edit losses (limited to 1.25% of total risk-weig
hted assets). Tier 1 leverage capital is equal to Tier 1 capital. Both
 Tier 1 capital and total ris
k-based capital ratios are derive
d by dividing 
the respective capital amounts by net risk-weighted assets, which 
are calculated as prescribed by regulatory agencies. The Tier
 1 leverage capital ratio is calculated by dividing the Tier 1 ca
pital amount by average total assets
 for the fourth quarter of 20
13 and 
2012, less non-qualifying intangibl
es and other adjustments.  
 Huntington has the ability to 
provide additional capital to the Bank to main
tain the Bank™s risk-based capital ratios at levels
 at which would be considered well-capitalized. 
 The FRB requires bank holding co
mpanies with assets over $50.0 billion to subm
it capital plans annually.  Per the FRB™s rule, 
our submission included a comprehensive cap
ital plan supported by an assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a 
given 
planning time period under a range of expected and stress scenar
ios.  We participated in the F
RB™s CapPR process and made our 2
013 
capital plan submission in January 2013.  On March 14, 2013, we announced that the FRB had completed its review of our 2013 
capital plan submission and did no
t object to our proposed capital actions.  The pl
anned actions included 
the potential repurch
ase of up 
to $227 million of common stock and an increase of our common pe
r share dividend from $0.04 to 
$0.05 through th
e 2014 first quarter. 
 Beginning with our Capital Plan submissi
on in January 2014, we are now subject to the FRB™s CCAR process. One of the 
primary additional elements of CCAR are supervisory stress tests 
conducted by the FRB under different hypothetical macro-econom
ic scenarios in addition to the stress tests routinely conducted by
 management.  After completing its review, the FRB may object o
r not 
object to our proposed capital actions, such as plans to pay 
or increase common stock dividends or increase common stock repurc
hase 
programs.  Beginning with our January 2014 submission, we are also subject to the OCC™s Annual Stress Test at the bank-level.  
The 
OCC stipulated that it will consult closely w
ith the FRB to provide commo
n stress scenarios which can be used at both the depos
itory institution and bank holding comp
any levels.  We submitted our 2014 Capital Plan 
to the Federal Reserve and OCC in January 2014
, in accordance with their requirements. 
 Huntington and its subsidiaries are also 
subject to various regulatory requirements that impose restrictions on cash, debt, and
 dividends. The Bank is required to main
tain cash reserves based on the level of ce
rtain of its deposits. This reserve requireme
nt may 
be met by holding cash in banking offices 
or on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank. During 2013 and 2012, the average balances
 of these deposits were $0.3 billion an
d $0.4 billion, respectively.  
 Under current Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank is limited as to the amount and type of loans it may make to the parent 
company and nonbank subsidiaries. At Decembe
r 31, 2013, the Bank could lend $652.0 mil
lion to a single affiliate, subject to th
e qualifying collateral requirements defined in the regulations.  
 Dividends from the Bank are one of the major sources of funds for the Company. Thes
e funds aid the Company in the payment of 
dividends to shareholders, expenses, and other obligations. Payment of dividends to the 
parent company is subject to various le
gal and 
regulatory limitations. Regulatory approval 
is required prior to the declaration of an
y dividends in excess of undivided profits or if the 
total of all dividends declared in a calendar year would exceed the total of
 net income for the current
 year combined with reta
ined net income for the preceding two years, less an
y required transfers to su
rplus or common stock.  As a 
result of the deficit positio
n of its undivided profits, prior to December 31, 2013, 
the Bank could not have declared and paid
 any cash dividends to the parent compa
ny 
without regulatory approval. 

   185 
 24.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  The parent company financial statements, which include transactions with subsidiaries, are as follows: 
 Balance Sheets
   December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   2013 
  2012 
 Assets 
        Cash and cash equivalents  
$  966,065 $ 921,471 Due from The Huntington National Bank (1) 
   246,841   207,414 Due from non-bank subsidiaries 
   57,747 
  78,006 
Investment in The Huntington National Bank 
   5,537,582   4,754,886 Investment in non-bank subsidiaries 
   587,388   774,055 Accrued interest receivable and other assets 
   295,206   131,358 Total assets $  7,690,829 $ 6,867,190 Liabilities and shareholders' equity 
       Long-term borrowings 
$  1,034,266 $ 662,894 Dividends payable, accrued 
expenses, and other liabilities 
   557,240   414,085 Total liabilities 
   1,591,506   1,076,979 Shareholders' equity (2) 
   6,099,323   5,790,211 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 
$  7,690,829 $ 6,867,190 (1) Related to subordinated notes described in Note 12. 
        (2) See Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders™ Equity. 
         Statements of Income
 Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
     2012 
   2011  
Income 
               Dividends from 
                 Non-bank subsidiaries 
$ 55,473 
$  36,450 
$ 68,491
  Interest from 
             The Huntington National Bank 
  6,598 
   38,617 
  80,024
    Non-bank subsidiaries 
  3,129 
   5,420 
  8,741
  Other 
  2,148 
   1,409 
  1,231
Total income 
  67,348 
   81,896 
  158,487Expense 
           Personnel costs 
  52,846 
   42,745 
  37,630
  Interest on borrowings 
  20,739 
   28,926 
  35,295
  Other 
  36,728 
   35,415 
  37,122
Total expense 
  110,313    107,086   110,047Income (loss) before income 
taxes and equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries 
  (42,965)
   (25,190)
  48,440
Provision (benefit) for income taxes   (33,958)
   (30,761)
  (10,707)
Income (loss) before equity in undi
stributed net income
 of subsidiaries 
  (9,007)
   5,571 
   59,147
Increase (decrease) in undistributed net income (loss) of: 
           The Huntington National Bank 
  678,191    645,151   527,418  Non-bank subsidiaries 
  (30,443)
   (9,700)
  (43,952)
Net income 
$ 638,741 $  641,022 $ 542,613Other comprehensive income (loss) (1) 
  (63,192)
   22,946 
  23,733
Comprehensive income 
$ 575,549 $  663,968 $ 566,346          (1) See Consolidated Statements of Comprehensiv
e Income for other comprehensive income detail. 
  186 
                      Statements of Cash Flows
  Year Ended December 31,   
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 2013  
    2012  
  2011  
Operating activities                Net income 
$ 638,741 $  641,022 $ 542,613   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
              provided by operating activities: 
                Equity in undistributed ne
t income of subsidiaries 
  (718,144)
   (688,149)
  (567,566)
      Depreciation and amortization 
  513 
   265 
  566 
      Other, net 
  18,506 
   50,714 
  30,980 
Net cash (used for) provided by operating activities 
  (60,384)
   3,852 
  6,593 
Investing activities 
            Repayments from subsidiaries 
  285,792    591,923   (39,586)
  Advances to subsidiaries 
  (249,050)
   (36,126)
  485,863 Net cash (used for) provided by investing activities 
  36,742 
   555,797   446,277 Financing activities 
            Proceeds from issuance of long-term borrowings 
  400,000    --- 
  --- 
  Payment of borrowings 
  (50,000)
   (236,885)
  (5,100)
  Dividends paid on stock 
  (182,476)
   (169,335)
  (92,404)
  Repurchases of common stock 
  (124,995)
   (148,881)
  --- 
  Redemption of Warrant to the Treasury 
  --- 
   --- 
  (49,100)
  Other, net 
  25,707 
   (1,031)
  (3,479)
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 
  68,236 
   (556,132)
  (150,083)
Change in cash and cash equivalents 
  44,594 
   3,517 
  302,787 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
  921,471    917,954   615,167 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$ 966,065 $  921,471 $ 917,954 Supplemental disclosure: 
               Interest paid 
$ 20,739 
  $  28,926 
 $ 35,295 
 25.  SEGMENT REPORTING 
  We have four major business segments: Retail and Business Ba
nking, Regional and Commercial Banking, Automobile Finance 
and Commercial Real Estate, and Wealth Adviso
rs, Government Finance, and Home Lending
.  A Treasury / Other function includes 
our insurance business and other unallocated
 assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. 
 Segment results are determined based upon the Company™s mana
gement reporting system, which
 assigns balance sheet and 
income statement items to each of the business segments.  The process is designed around the Company™s organizational and 
management structure and, accordingly, the results derived are not
 necessarily comparable with similar information published by
 other 
financial institutions. A description of each segment and table of fi
nancial results as of December 31, 2013, is presented belo
w. 
 Retail and Business Banking: The Retail and Business Banking segment provides a wide array of financial products and services to 
consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, 
certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and 
small business loans and leases. Other fi
nancial services available to consumer an
d small 
business customers include investments, insurance services, intere
st rate risk protection produc
ts, foreign exchange hedging, a
nd 
treasury management services. Huntington serves customers primari
ly through our network of trad
itional branches in Ohio, Michig
an, 
Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Ke
ntucky. Huntington also has branches located
 in grocery stores in Ohio and Michigan
. In 
addition to our extensive branch networ
k, customers can access Huntington through
 online banking, mobile banking, telephone 
banking and ATMs. 

 Huntington established a ﬁFair Playﬂ bank
ing philosophy and built a reputation for meeting
 the banking needs 
of consumers in a 
manner which makes them feel supported and 
appreciated. Huntington believes customers 
are recognizing this and other efforts as
 key 
differentiators and it is earning us more customers and deeper relationships. 

   187 
 Business Banking is a dynamic and growin
g part of our business and we are committed
 to being the bank of choice for small 
businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as companie
s with revenues up to $25 million and consists of approximate
ly 
163,000 businesses.   Huntington continues to develop products and services that are 
designed specifically to meet the needs of
 small 
business. Huntington continues to look for ways to 
help companies find solutions to their capital needs. 
 Regional and Commercial Banking:
 This segment provides a wide array of produ
cts and services to the middle market and large 
corporate customers base located primarily within our eleven regional commercial banking markets.  Products and services are 
delivered through a relationship banking model and include commer
cial lending, as well as depository and liquidity management 
products.  Dedicated teams collaborate with our relationship ba
nkers to deliver complex and customized treasury management 
solutions, equipment leasing, internationa
l services, capital markets serv
ices such as interest rate risk protection products, 
foreign 
exchange hedging and sales, trading of securities, mezzanine investment capabilities, and employee benefit programs (insurance,
 401(k)).  The Commercial Banking team specializes in serving a 
number of industry segments such as not-for-profit organizations
, health-care entities, and large publicly traded companies.   
 Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
: This segment provides lending and other banking products and services to 
customers outside of our normal retail and commercial banking segmen
ts.  Our products and services include financing for the 
purchase of automobiles by customers at automotive dealerships, financing the acquis
ition of new and used vehicle inventory of 
automotive dealerships, and financing for 
land, buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or constructed by real estate
 developers, automobile dealerships, or other customers with real
 estate project financing needs.
  Products and services are del
ivered 
through highly specialized relationship-focu
sed bankers and product partners.  Huntington creates well-defined relationship pla
ns 
which identify needs wh
ere solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained.   
 The Automotive Finance team services automobile dealerships, its owners, an
d consumers buying automobiles through these 
dealerships. Huntington has prov
ided new and used automobile financing and dealer services throughout the Midwest since the ear
ly 1950s. This consistency in the ma
rket and our focus on working with
 strong dealerships, has allowed us to expand into selected 
markets outside of the Midwest and to actively deepen relationships 
while building a strong reputation.  
 The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured 
by commercial properties.  Most of our customer
s are located within our footprint. 
 Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending: 
This segment consists of our wealth management, government 
banking, and home lending businesses. In wealth management, Hun
tington provides financial servi
ces to high net worth clients in
 our 
primary banking markets and Florida. Huntingt
on provides these services through a unifie
d sales team, which consists of private
 bankers, trust officers, and investment advisors. Aligned with th
e eleven regional commercial banking markets, this coordinated
 service model delivers products and service
s directly and through the other segment 
product partners. A fundamental point of 
differentiation is our commitment to be in 
the market, working closely with clients an
d their other advisors to identify needs,
 offer 
solutions and provide ongoing advice 
in an optimal client relationship. 
 The Government Finance Group provides financial products and 
services to government and ot
her public sector entities in our 
primary banking markets. A locally based team
 of relationship managers works with clients to meet their trust, lending, and tre
asury 
management needs. 
 Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary 
banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are 
primarily distributed through 
the Retail and Business Banking 
segment, as well as through commissioned loan
 originators. Closely aligned, our Community Development group serves an important
 role as it focuses on deliver
ing on our commitment to the 
communities Huntington serves. 
 The segment also includes the related businesses of investment 
management, investment servicing
, custody, corporate trust, and 
retirement plan services. Huntington Asset 
Advisors provides investment
 management services throug
h a variety of internal and 
external channels, including advising the Huntington Funds, our 
proprietary family of mutual fund
s and Huntington Strategy Shar
es, our actively-managed exchange-traded funds. Huntington Asset Serv
ices offers administrative and operational support to fund 
complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, administra
tion, and distribution services. Our retirement plan services 
business 
offers fully bundled and third party distribution of a 
variety of qualified and non-
qualified plan solutions. 
 
Treasury / Other function includes our in
surance brokerage business, which specializes in commercial property and casualty, 
employee benefits, personal lines, life and 
disability and specialty lines of insurance.
  Huntington also provides brokerage an
d agency 
services for residential and commercial title ins
urance and excess and surplus product lines
 of insurance.  As
 an agent and bro
ker we 
do not assume underwriting risks; instead
 we provide our customers with quality, noni
nvestment insurance contracts.  The Treasu
ry / Other function also includes technology
 and operations, other unallocated assets
, liabilities, revenue
, and expense.  188 
 Listed below is certain operating basis financial information reco
nciled to Huntington™s 2013, 2012, and 2011 reported results 
by 
business segment: 
      Retail &   Regional &              Income Statements 
  Business   Commercial
       Treasury / 
Huntington  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
   Banking
   Banking 
  AFCRE  WGH 
Other 
Consolidated 
2013  
                      Net interest income
 $813,871 
$276,480 
 $356,488
$172,033 
$85,736 $1,704,608 
Provision for credit losses
   137,898 
  16,982   (71,312)
 6,477 
 ---
  90,045 Noninterest income
   392,797 
  140,639 
  34,099 299,588 
 130,872 
  997,995 
Noninterest expense   964,316 
  219,029 
  149,744
 365,531 
 59,383   1,758,003 
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes   36,559   63,388   109,254
 34,865  (28,252)
  215,814 
Net income
 $67,895 $117,720 
 $202,901
$64,748 $185,477 
$638,741 
2012 
                      Net interest income 
$870,146 
$273,869 
 $356,442
$192,681 
$17,386 $1,710,524 
Provision for credit losses 
  136,061 
  10,689   (22,962)
 23,600  ---
  147,388 
Noninterest income 
  385,498 
  138,454 
  84,619 351,057 
 138,229 
  1,097,857 
Noninterest expense 
   982,378   203,000 
  154,480
 376,239 
 119,779 
  1,835,876 
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes 
  48,022   69,522   108,340
 50,365  (92,154)
  184,095 
Net income  
$89,183 $129,112 
 $201,203
$93,534 $127,990 
$641,022 
2011  
                     Net interest income 
$932,385 
$244,392 
 $364,449
$199,536 
$(111,592)
$1,629,170 
Provision for credit losses 
  120,018 
  11,013   (8,939) 51,967  ---
  174,059 
Noninterest income 
  405,265 
  127,315 
  77,623 248,764 
 121,656 
  980,623 
Noninterest expense,    947,794   191,701 
  164,626
 356,513 
 67,866   1,728,500 
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes 
  94,443   59,147   100,234
 13,937  (103,140)
  164,621 
Net income  
$175,395 
$109,846 
 $186,151
$25,883 $45,338 $542,613 
      Assets at 
    Deposits at 
   December 31, 
    December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
  2013 
  2012 
     2013 
   2012 
 Retail and Business Banking 
$ 14,471,854 
 $ 14,362,630 
  $  28,313,803 
 $ 28,367,264 
Regional and Commercial Banking 
  12,268,717 
  11,540,966 
     6,941,649   5,862,858 AFCRE   14,103,800 
  12,085,128 
     1,163,637   995,035 WGH 
  7,590,271   7,570,256      9,657,174   9,507,785 Treasury / Other 
  11,041,702 
  10,594,205 
     1,430,455   1,519,741 Total $ 59,476,344 
 $ 56,153,185 
  $  47,506,718 
 $ 46,252,683 
  26.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
  On October 10, 2013, Huntington announced the signing of a definitive agreement to
 acquire Camco Financial, the parent 
company of Cambridge Ohio-based Advantage Bank, in a cash and stoc
k transaction valued at approximately $97 million.  As of Jun
e 30, 2013, Camco operated 22 banking offices 
throughout eastern and southern Ohio with 
$0.8 billion in total as
sets and $0.6 bil
lion in 
total deposits.  The transaction 
is expected to be completed in the first half 
of 2014, subject 
to the satisfaction of customar
y closing 
conditions, including regulatory approvals and the approval of the 
shareholders of Camco Financ
ial.  Given the size and structu
re, the 
transaction has a de minimis impact to tangible book value.   
 189 
 On March 30, 2012, Huntington acquired 
the loans, deposits and certain other assets and liabilities of Fidelity Bank located in
 Dearborn, Michigan from the FDIC. Under the agreement, approxima
tely $523.9 million 
of loans, a receivable of $95.9 million fro
m the FDIC, and $152.3 million of other assets (primarily cash and 
due from banks and investment securities) were transferred to 
Huntington.  Assets acquired and liabilities assumed were reco
rded at fair value in accord
ance with ASC 805, ﬁBusiness 
Combinationsﬂ.  The fair values 
for loans were estimated using disc
ounted cash flow analyses usi
ng interest rates currently bei
ng 
offered for loans with similar terms (Level 3).  This value was reduced by an estimate of probable losses and the credit risk a
ssociated 
with the loans.  The fair values of de
posits were estimated by discounting cash fl
ows using interest rates currently being offe
red on 
deposits with similar maturities (Level 
3).  Additionally, approximately $713.4 milli
on of deposits and $45.2 million of other 
borrowings were assumed.  Huntington reco
gnized an $11.2 million bargain purchase gain
 during the 2012, which is included in ot
her noninterest income.  
 27.  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
   The following is a summary 
of the quarterly results of operations, for th
e years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: 
   2013 
 (dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 Fourth 
  Third     Second   First Interest income
 $ 469,824  $ 462,912   $  462,582 $ 465,319 Interest expense
   39,175 
   38,060 
     37,645
   41,149 
Net interest income
   430,649    424,852      424,937   424,170 Provision for credit losses
   24,331 
   11,400 
     24,722
   29,592 
Noninterest income
   246,628    250,503      248,655   252,209 Noninterest expense   446,009    423,336      445,865   442,793 Income before income taxes
   206,937    240,619      203,005   203,994 Provision for income taxes
   49,114 
   62,132 
     52,354
   52,214 
Net income 
   157,823    178,487      150,651   151,780 Dividends on preferred shares
   7,965 
   7,967 
     7,967
   7,970 
Net income applicable to common shares
 $ 149,858  $ 170,520   $  142,684 $ 143,810 Net income per common share -- Basic
 $0.18 
 $0.21 
  $ 0.17
$0.17 
Net income per common share -- Diluted
  0.18 
  0.20 
    0.17
  0.17 
                         2012  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 Fourth 
  Third     Second   First Interest income 
$ 478,995  $ 483,787   $  487,544 $ 479,937 Interest expense 
  44,940 
   53,489 
     58,582
   62,728 
Net interest income 
  434,055    430,298      428,962   417,209 Provision for credit losses 
  39,458 
   37,004 
     36,520
   34,406 
Noninterest income 
  297,651    261,067      253,819   285,320 Noninterest expense 
  470,628    458,303      444,269   462,676 Income before income taxes 
  221,620    196,058      201,992   205,447 Provision for income taxes 
  54,341 
   28,291 
     49,286
   52,177 
Net income 
  167,279    167,767      152,706   153,270 Dividends declared on preferred shares 
  7,973 
   7,983 
     7,984
   8,049 
Net income applicable to common shares 
$ 159,306  $ 159,784   $  144,722 $ 145,221 Net income per common share -- Basic 
$0.19 
 $0.19 
  $ 0.17
 $0.17 
Net income per common share -- Diluted 
 0.19 
  0.19 
    0.17
  0.17 
190 
 Item 9: Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
 None. 
 Item 9A: Controls and Procedures 
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 Huntington maintains disclosure controls 
and procedures designed to ensure that the 
information required to be disclosed in 
the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are recorded, processed, summarized
, and 
reported within the time periods 
specified in the Commission™s ru
les and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, wit
hout 
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports th
at it files or submits under the Act is accumulated an
d communicated to the issuer™s management, 
including its principal executive and prin
cipal 
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as 
appropriate to allow timely deci
sions regarding required disclo
sure. Huntington™s Management, with the particip
ation of its Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the 
effectiveness of Huntington™s disclosure controls and procedures
 (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) unde
r the 
Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this repo
rt. Based upon such evaluation, Huntington™s Chief Executive Offi
cer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end 
of such period, Huntington™s disc
losure controls and procedures 
were 
effective.  
 Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 Information required by this item is set forth in Report of Mana
gement and Report of Independen
t Registered Public Accounting 
Firm which is incorporated by
 reference into this item. 
 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 There have not been any changes in our internal control over fi
nancial reporting (as such term is
 defined in Rules 13a-15(f) an
d 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2013, to which this report relates, that have materiall
y affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. 
 Item 9B: Other Information 
   Not applicable.
  PART III 
 We refer in Part III of this
 report to relevant sections of our 2014 Prox
y Statement for the 2014 annual meeting of shareholder
s, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant 
to Regulation 14A within 120 days of the cl
ose of our 2013 fiscal year. Portions of o
ur 2014 
Proxy Statement, including the sections we refer to in this
 report, are incorporated by reference into this report. 
 Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the captions Election of Directors, Corporate Governance, Our Executive 
Officers, Board Meetings and Committee Information, Report of th
e Audit Committee, and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership 
Reporting Compliance of our 2014 
Proxy Statement, which is incorporated
 by reference into this item. 
 Item 11: Executive Compensation 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the captions Compensation of Executives an
d Director Compensation of our 
2014 Proxy Statement, which
 is incorporated by refe
rence into this item. 
191 
 Item 12:  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  
 The following table sets fort
h information about Huntington common stock aut
horized for issuance under Huntington™s existing 
equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2013. 
            Number of 
          securities    Number of 
   remaining available 
   securities to be 
    for future issuance 
   issued upon   Weighted-average 
under equity 
   exercise of   exercise price of compensation plans 
   outstanding 
  outstanding 
(excluding 
   options, warrants, 
  options, warrants, 
securities reflected    and rights (2) 
  and rights (3) 
in column (a)) (4) 
Plan Category (1) 
 (a)    (b)  
(c)  Equity compensation plans appr
oved by security holders 
  35,907,924 
 $ 4.29 
   24,366,829 
 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
  1,101,357     21.13 
   --- 
 Total   37,009,281 
 $ 4.79 
   24,366,829 
  Item 13:  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  Information required by this item is set forth under the captions In
debtedness of Management and Ce
rtain other Transactions of 
our 2014 Proxy Statement, 
which is incorporated by 
reference into this item. 
 Item 14:  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
 Information required by this item is set forth under the caption 
Proposal to Ratify the Appointment of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm of our 2014 P
roxy Statement which is incorporated by reference into this item. 
 PART IV 
 Item 15:   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
 (a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 
 (1) The report of independent registered pu
blic accounting firm and consolidated fi
nancial statements appearing in Item 8. 
 (2)
 Huntington is not filing separate financial statement schedule
s, because of the ab
sence of conditions und
er which they are 
required or because the requir
ed information is included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.   
 (3)
 The exhibits required by this item are listed in the Exhibit 
Index of this Form 10-K.  The management contracts and 
compensation plans or arrangements 
required to be filed as exhibits to this 
Form 10-K are listed as
 Exhibits 10.1 through 10.27 in the Exhibit Index.  
 (b)  The exhibits to this Form 10-K begin on page 196 of this report. 
 (c)  See Item 15(a)(2) above. 
192 
 Signatures 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
 report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, th
ereunto duly authorized, on th
e 14th day of February, 2014. 
 HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED 
(Registrant)   By:  /s/ Stephen D. Steinour     By:  /s/ David S. Anderson   
   Stephen D. Steinour             David S. Anderson 
 Chairman, President, Chief Executive
            
 Executive Vice President
   Officer, and Director (Principal Executive         Interim Chief Financial Officer 

 Officer)             (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

 Pursuant to the requirements of the Secur
ities Exchange Act of 1934, this report ha
s been signed below by the following persons
 on behalf of the Registrant and 
in the capacities indicated on 
the 14th day of February, 2014. 
 Don M. Casto III  *     Jonathan A. Levy  *    
Don M. Casto III      Jonathan A. Levy 
Director       Director 
 Ann B. Crane  *      Richard W. Neu  *    
Ann B. Crane      Richard W. Neu 
Director       Director 
 
Steven G. Elliott  *     David L. Porteous  *    
Steven G. Elliott      David L. Porteous 

Director       Director 

 Michael J. Endres  *     Kathleen H. Ransier  *    
Michael J. Endres      Kathleen H. Ransier 

Director       Director 
 
John B. Gerlach, Jr.  *      
John B. Gerlach, Jr.      

Director        

 Peter J. Kight  *       
Peter J. Kight       
Director        
 */s/ David S. Anderson    
David S. Anderson 
Attorney-in-fact for each of the persons indicated 
193 
 Exhibit Index 
This report incorporates by re
ference the documents listed belo
w that we have previously file
d with the SEC. The SEC allows us 
to 
incorporate by reference information in this
 document. The information incorporated by reference is considered to be a part of 
this document, except for any information that is superseded by 
information that is included 
directly in this document. 
  This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference 
Room of the SEC at 100 F Stre
et, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. 
The SEC also maintains an Inter
net web site that contains repo
rts, proxy statements
, and other informati
on about issuers, like us, who 
file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is 
http://www.sec.gov
. The reports and other info
rmation filed by us with the 
SEC are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site is 
http://www.huntington.com
. Except as specifically 
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on those web sites is not part of this report. You 
also should be able to insp
ect reports, proxy statements, and other information a
bout us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Marke
t at 
33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York. 
  Exhibit Number 
  Document Description 
 Report or Registration 
Statement 
SEC File or 
Registration Number 
 Exhibit Reference 
2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 20, 
2006 by and among Huntington Bancshares 

Incorporated, Penguin Acquisition, LLC and Sky 
Financial Group, Inc. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated December 22, 2006. 
000-02525 2.1 
2.2 Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between 
Camco Financial Corporation and Huntington 
Bancshares Incorporated, dated as of October 9, 2013. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 

dated October 10, 2013. 
001-34073 2.1 
3.1 Articles of Restatement of Char
ter. Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 1993. 
000-02525 3(i) 
3.2 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated May 31, 2007 
000-02525 3.1 
3.3 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated May 7, 2008 
000-02525 3.1 
3.4 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 27, 2010 
001-34073 3.1 
3.5 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of April 22, 2008. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 22, 2008 
000-02525 3.1 
3.6 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of April 22. 2008. Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 22, 2008 
000-02525 3.2 
3.7 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of November 12, 2008. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 

dated November 12, 2008 
001-34073 3.1 
3.8 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of December 31, 2006. 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2006 
000-02525 3.4 
3.9 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of December 28, 2011 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated December 28, 2011 
001-34073 3.1 
3.10 Bylaws of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, as 
amended and restated, as of July 18, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2012. 
001-34073 3.1 
4.1 Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders -- 
reference is made to Articles Fifth, Eighth, and Tenth 

of Articles of Restatement of Charter, as amended and 

supplemented. Instruments defining the rights of 
holders of long-term debt will be furnished to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 
   
10.1 * Form of Executive Agreement for certain executive 
officers. 
   
10.2 * Management Incentive Plan for Covered Officers as 
amended and restated effective for plan years 
beginning on or after January 1, 2011. 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2011 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders 
001-34073 A 
10.3 * Huntington Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, 
amended and restated, effective December 31, 2013. 
   
10.4 * Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Directors Post-Effective Amendment 
No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed 
on January 28, 1991. 
33-10546 4(a) 
10.5 * Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Directors 
Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on July 19, 

1991. 
33-41774 4(a) 
10.6 * First Amendment to Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust 

for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Directors 
Quarterly Report 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 
2001 
000-02525 10(q) 
10.7 * Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended 
and restated on January 1, 2012. 
Annual Report of Form 10-K 
for the year ended December 
31, 2012 
001-34073 10.8 
10.8 * The Huntington Supplemental Stock Purchase and  
  194 
 Tax Savings Plan and Trust, amended and restated, 
effective January 1, 2014 
10.9 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2001 Stock 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Quarterly Report 10-Q for 

the quarter ended March 31, 

2001 
000-02525 10(r) 
10.10 * First Amendment to the Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated 2001 Stock and Long-Term Incentive 

Plan Quarterly Report 10-Q for 

the quarter ended March 31, 

2002 
000-02525 10(h) 
10.11 * Second Amendment to the Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated 2001 Stock and Long-Term Incentive 

Plan Quarterly Report 10-Q for 

the quarter ended March 31, 

2002 
000-02525 10(i) 
10.12 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2004 Stock 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q for the quarter ended 
June 30, 2004 
000-02525 10(b) 
10.13 * First Amendment to the 2004 Stock and Long-Term 
Incentive Plan Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 
000-02525 10(e) 
10.14 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Employee 
Stock Incentive Plan (incorporating changes made by 

first amendment to Plan) 
Registration Statement on 
Form S-8 filed on December 
13, 2001. 
333-75032 4(a) 
10.15 * Second Amendment to Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated Employee Stock Incentive Plan 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2002 
000-02525 10(s) 
10.16 * Form of Employment Agreement between Stephen 
D. Steinour and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

effective December 1, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.17 * Form of Executive Agreement between Stephen D. 
Steinour and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated effective December 1, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.2 
10.18 Letter Agreement including Securities Purchase 
Agreement Œ Standard Terms, dated November 14, 
2008, between Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 

and the United States Department of the Treasury. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 14, 2008. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.19 * Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice with three year 
vesting Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.1 
10.20 * Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice with six month 
vesting Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.2 
10.21 * Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Agreement Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.3 
10.22 * Director Deferred Stock Award Notice Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.4 
10.23 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2007 Stock 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2007 Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders 
000-02525 G 
10.24 * First Amendment to the 2007 Stock and Long-Term 
Incentive Plan Quarterly report on Form 10-
Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2007 
000-02525 10.7 
10.25 * Second Amendment to the 2007 Stock and Long-
Term Incentive Plan 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2010 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders 
001-34073 A 
10.26 * 2009 Stock Option Grant Notice to Stephen D. 
Steinour. Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.27 * Form of Consolidated 2012 Stock Grant Agreement 
for Executive Officers Pursuant to Huntington™s 2012 
Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
June 30, 2012. 
001-34073 10.2 
12.1 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 
    
12.2 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred 
Dividends. 
    
14.1 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics dated January 
14, 2003 and revised on January 15, 2013 and 
Financial Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, adopted January 18, 
2003 and revised on October 15, 2013, are available 
on our website at 
https://www.huntington.com/us/corp_governance.htm 
    
21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
    
23.1 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
    
24.1 Power of Attorney 
    
195 
 31.1 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification Œ Chief Executive 
Officer. 
    
31.2 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification Œ Chief Financial 
Officer. 

    
32.1 Section 1350 Certification Œ Chief Executive Officer. 
    
32.2 Section 1350 Certification Œ Chief Financial Officer. 
    
101 ** The following material from Huntington™s Form 
10-K Report for the year 
ended December 31, 2013, 
formatted in XBRL: (1) Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
(2) Consolidated Statements of Income, (3), 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, 
(4) Consolidated Statements of Changes in 
Shareholders™ Equity, (5) Consolidated Statements of 

Cash Flows, and (6) the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.   
    
* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan 
or arrangement. 
    
** Furnished, not filed.    
 BOARDOFDIRECTORS
DonM.CastoIII
(1)(4)(5)(7)Principal/ChiefExecutiveOfficer,
CASTO
JoinedBoard:1985
Ann(“Tanny”)B.Crane
(1)(2)PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
CraneGroupCompany

JoinedBoard:2010
StevenG.Elliott
(4)(6)(7)RetiredSeniorViceChairman,
BNYMellon

JoinedBoard:2011
MichaelJ.Endres
(4)(7)Partner,StonehengePartners

JoinedBoard:2003
JohnB.Gerlach,Jr.
(3)(5)Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
LancasterColonyCorporation

JoinedBoard:1999
PeterJ.Kight
(3)(7)SeniorAdvisor,
ComvestPartners

JoinedBoard:2012
JonathanA.Levy
(4)(6)ManagingPartner,

RedstoneInvestments

JoinedBoard:2007
RichardW.Neu
(1)(2)Chairman,MCGCapitalCorporation

JoinedBoard:2010
DavidL.Porteous
(3)(4)(5)(6)Attorney,McCurdy,Wotila&Porteous,PC;

LeadDirector,

HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

JoinedBoard:2003
KathleenH.Ransier
(2)(3)RetiredPartner,
Vorys,Sater,SeymourandPeaseLLP

JoinedBoard:2003
StephenD.Steinour
(4)Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

andTheHuntingtonNationalBank

JoinedBoard:2009
COMMITTEES(1)Audit(2)CommunityDevelopment
(3)Compensation(4)Executive(5)NominatingandCorporateGovernance
(6)RiskOversight
(7)TechnologyCONTACTANDOTHERINFORMATION
SHAREHOLDERCONTACTS
Shareholdersrequestinginformationaboutshare
balances,changeofnameoraddress,lostcertificates,

orothershareholderaccountmattersshouldcontact

theregistrarandtransferagent:
ComputershareInvestorServices
Attn:ShareholderServices

P.O.Box30170

CollegeStation,TX77842-3170

web.queries@computershare.com
(800)725-0674
DIRECTSTOCKPURCHASEANDDIVIDEND
REINVESTMENTPLAN
ComputershareInvestmentPlan(CIP)isadirect
stockpurchaseanddividendreinvestmentplanfor

investorsholdingorwhowishtobecomeholdersof

commonstockofHuntington.TheCIPisofferedand

administeredbyComputershareTrustCompany,

N.A.(Computershare),andnotbyHuntington.Both

registeredshareholdersandnewinvestorsareableto

purchaseHuntingtoncommonsharesthroughthe

CIP.Computershareistheregistrarandtransferagent

forHuntingtoncommonstock.Call(800)725-0674

forinformationtoenrollintheCIP.
DIRECTDEPOSITOFDIVIDENDS
Automaticdirectdepositofquarterlydividendsis
offeredtoourshareholders,atnocharge,and

providessecureandtimelyaccesstotheirfunds.For

furtherinformation,pleasecall(800)725-0674.
SHAREHOLDERINFORMATION
CommonStock:

ThecommonstockofHuntingtonBancshares
IncorporatedistradedontheNASDAQStockMarket

underthesymbol“HBAN.”Thestockislistedas

“HuntgBcshr”or“HuntBanc”inmostnewspapers.

AsofDecember31,2013,Huntingtonhad29,952

shareholdersofrecord.
AnnualMeeting:
The2014AnnualMeetingofShareholdershasbeen
scheduledfor2:00p.m.EDT,Thursday,April17,

2014,atHuntington’sEastonBusinessService

Center,7EastonOval,Columbus,Ohio.
InformationRequests:
CopiesofHuntington’sAnnualReport;Forms10-K,
10-Q,and8-K;FinancialCodeofEthics;andquarterly

earningsreleasesmaybeobtained,freeofcharge,by

calling(888)480-3164orbyvisitingHuntington’s

InvestorRelationswebsiteathuntington-ir.com.
ANALYSTANDINVESTORCONTACTS
Analystsandinvestorsseekingfinancialinformation
aboutHuntingtonshouldcontact:
InvestorRelations
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

HuntingtonCenter,HC0935

41SouthHighStreet

Columbus,OH43287

investor.relations@huntington.com
(614)480-5676
QUARTERLYEARNINGSREPORTING
For2014reportingperiods,Huntingtonanticipates
announcingquarterlyresultsduringthethirdweekof

April,July,andOctober2014,andJanuary2015.
CREDITRATINGS
(1)TheHuntingtonNationalBank
SeniorUnsecuredNotesSubordinatedNotesCommercialPaper/
ShortTermOutlook
Fitch(2)A-BBB+F1Stable
Moody’s(3)A3Baa1P-2Stable
S&P(4)BBB+BBBWRPositive
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated
SeniorUnsecuredNotesSubordinatedNotesCommercialPaper/
ShortTermOutlook
Fitch(2)A-BBB+F1Stable
Moody’s(3)Baa1Baa2WRStable
S&P(4)BBBBBBWRPositive
WR—WithdrawnRating
(1)AsofDecember31,2013
(2)FitchRatings,NewYork,NewYork
(3)Moody’sInvestorsService,NewYork,NewYork
(4)Standard&Poor’sCorporation,NewYork,NewYork
CUSTOMERCONTACTS
CorporateHeadquarters
(614)480-8300
MortgageDirect

(800)562-6871
CustomerServiceCenter

(800)480-BANK(2265)
HuntingtonWealthAdvisors

(800)544-8347
BusinessDirect

(800)480-2001
InsuranceServices

(888)576-7900
AutoLoan&Lease

(800)445-8460
huntington.com
(877)932-2265
TheHuntington

InvestmentCompany
(800)322-4600
03014ARHUNTINGTON          2013 ANNUAL REPORTMember FDIC.  ® and Huntington® are federally registered service marks 
 of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.Huntington Welcome.
TM is a service mark of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.© 2014 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.