2012 ANNUAL REPORT
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporatedisa$56billionregionalbankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinColumbus,
Ohio.TheHuntingtonNationalBank,foundedin1866,providesfull-servicecommercialandconsumerbanking

services,mortgagebankingservices,automobilefinancing,equipmentleasing,investmentmanagement,trust

services,brokerageservices,insuranceserviceprograms,andotherfinancialproductsandservices.Theprincipal

marketsfortheseservicesareHuntington’ssix-statebankingfranchise:Ohio,Michigan,Pennsylvania,Indiana,

WestVirginia,andKentucky.Theprimarydistributionchannelsincludeabankingnetworkofmorethan690

traditionalbranchesandbrancheslocatedingrocerystores.Wealsohaveanarrayofalternativedistribution

channelsincludinginternetandmobilebanking,telephonebanking,andmorethan1,350ATMs.Through

automotivedealershiprelationshipswithinitssix-statebankingfranchiseareaandselectedotherMidwestand

NewEnglandstates,Huntingtonalsoprovidescommercialbankingservicestotheautomotivedealersandretail

automobilefinancingfordealercustomers.
CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALHIGHLIGHTS
(Inmillions,exceptpershareamounts)2012
2011ChangeNETINCOME
$641.0
$542.6$98.418%
PERCOMMONSHAREAMOUNTS
Netincomepercommonshare–diluted
..............................................$0.71
$0.59$0.1220%
Cashdividenddeclaredpercommonshare
............................................0.160.100.0660
Tangiblebookvaluepercommonshare
(1).............................................5.785.180.6012
PERFORMANCERATIOS
Returnonaveragetotalassets
......................................................1.15%1.01%0.14%
Returnonaveragetangiblecommonshareholders’equity
................................13.512.70.80
Netinterestmargin
(2).............................................................3.413.380.03
Efficiencyratio
(3)................................................................63.463.7(0.30)
CAPITALRATIOS
Tier1risk-basedcapitalratio
(1).....................................................12.02%12.11%(0.09)%
Totalrisk-basedcapitalratio
(1).....................................................14.5014.77(0.27)
Tangibleequity/tangibleassetsratio
(1)(4)(8)............................................9.469.020.44
Tangiblecommonequity/tangibleassetratio
(1)(5)(8)......................................8.768.300.46
CREDITQUALITYMEASURES
Netcharge-offs(NCOs)
...........................................................$342.5
$437.1$(94.6)(22)%
NCOsasa%ofaverageloansandleases
.............................................0.85%1.12%(0.27)%
Non-accrualloans(NALs)
(1).......................................................$407.6
$541.1$(133.5)(25)%
NALratio
(1)(6)...................................................................1.00%1.39%(0.39)%
Non-performingassets(NPAs)
(1)...................................................$445.8
$590.3$(144.5)(24)%
NPAratio
(1)(7)...................................................................1.09%1.51%(0.42)%
Allowanceforcreditlosses(ACL)
(1).................................................$809.7
$1,013.3$(203.6)(20)%
ACLasa%oftotalloansandleases
(1)...............................................1.99%2.60%(0.61)%
ACLasa%ofNALs
(1)...........................................................19918712
BALANCESHEET–DECEMBER31,
Totalloansandleases
............................................................$40,728.4$38,923.8$1,804.65%
Totalassets
....................................................................56,153.254,450.71,702.53
Totaldeposits
...................................................................46,252.743,279.62,973.17
Totalshareholders’equity
.........................................................5,790.25,418.1372.17
(1)AtDecember31.
(2)Onafully-taxableequivalent(FTE)basisassuminga35%taxrate.
(3)NoninterestexpenselessamortizationofintangiblesandgoodwillimpairmentdividedbythesumofFTEnetinterestincomeand
noninterestincomeexcludingsecuritieslosses.
(4)Tangibleequity(totalequitylessgoodwillandotherintangibleassets)dividedbytangibleassets(totalassetslessgoodwillandother

intangibleassets).Otherintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxandcalculatedassuminga35%taxrate.
(5)Tangiblecommonequity(totalcommonequitylessgoodwillandotherintangibleassets)dividedbytangibleassets(totalassetsless

goodwillandotherintangibleassets).Otherintangibleassetsarenetofdeferredtaxandcalculatedassuminga35%taxrate.
(6)NALsdividedbytotalloansandleases.
(7)NPAsdividedbythesumoftotalloansandleases,impairedloansheld-for-sale,andnetotherrealestate.
(8)Tangibleequity,tangiblecommonequity,andtangibleassetsarenon-GAAPfinancialmeasures.Additionally,anyratiosutilizingthese

financialmeasuresarealsonon-GAAP.Thesefinancialmeasureshavebeenincludedastheyareconsideredtobecriticalmetricswith

whichtoanalyzeandevaluatefinancialconditionandcapitalstrength.Othercompaniesmaycalculatethesefinancialmeasures

differently.TOFELLOWOWNERSANDFRIENDS:
Iampleasedtoreport2012wasayearofsignificantaccomplishment,andthroughthededicationofour
morethan11,000colleagues,weachievedthreeofthesixlong-termfinancialgoalsthatweestablishedin2010.

WearefocusedonexecutingourstrategicplantopositionHuntingtonforconsistentlong-termprofitablegrowth,

demonstratedthispastyearbythe12%increaseintangiblebookvaluepercommonshareto$5.78.Our“Fair

Play”approachtobanking,coupledwithoureffectiveOptimalCustomerRelationship(OCR)cross-sellprocess,

allowedustomeaningfullygrowthebalancesheet,continuetodramaticallyincreasethenumberofcustomer

relationships,andpositionedussignificantlyclosertoourgoalofbeingTHEBankoftheMidwest.Weremain

diligentwithrespecttomaintainingouraggregatemoderate-to-lowriskprofile.Wecontinuetoinvestinourrisk

infrastructure,andforthethirdyearinarow,wedecreasednonaccrualloansbyatleast25%,whilefinishingthe

yearwithourprovisionforcreditlossesatthelowendofourlong-termexpectedrange.
During2012,wewereabletoreturnmoreofourcapitaltoshareholders.Thefullyeardeclareddividend
increasedby60%to$0.16percommonshare.Dividends,coupledwith$148millioninsharerepurchases,

equatedtotheCompanypayingoutjustunder50%ofitsnetincomeavailabletocommonshares.Thisrepresents

asignificantincreasefromthe12%ofnetincomepaidoutin2011.Ourcapitallevelsremainhealthy,andaswe

lookforward,ourtopcapitalprioritiesaretogrowthecorefranchiseandsupportthedividend.
Thecontinuedimprovementinprofitability,efficiency,credit,andcapitaldemonstratedhowHuntington
colleagueshaverisentothechallengesofthecurrentbankingenvironment.Expectationsforeachmemberofthe

Huntingtonteamremainhigh,astheirexecutionofourlong-termstrategyisparamounttoourfuturesuccess.Let

mebeginbyofferingaprogressreportonseveralkeyareasofourstrategy.Iwillthenprovidearecapof2012

performanceandourexpectationsfor2013.
StrategiesOvercomingEconomicHeadwinds
Thebankingindustryhasbeenseverelyaffectedbyastrugglingeconomicrecovery,theprolongedlowlevel
ofinterestrates,andaregulatoryenvironmentwithunprecedentedchangesandnewrequirements.Ourstrategies

uniquelyprovideopportunitiestocountermanyoftheseindustryheadwindsdirectly.
WecontinuetoseepositivetrendswithinourMidwestmarketsrelativetothebroaderUnitedStates.
Nevertheless,broadbasedcustomersentimentbegantochangeinlate2012,duetoincreasedconcernsregarding

theU.S.economy.Whilesomebusinessesarehesitanttoinvestgiventhecurrentuncertaintyintheeconomy,we

believeourdifferentiatedapproachtobanking,combinedwithinvestinginourfranchisethroughenhanced

convenience,productsandservices,willdrivegrowthandimprovementofourlong-termprofitability.
Thelowinterestrateenvironment,coupledwitharelativelyflatyieldcurveexperiencedforthelastseveral
years,isadirectreflectionoftheuncertaintyandvolatilityofthenationalandglobaleconomy.Italsoput

unrelentingpressureonournetinterestmargin(NIM).WewereabletoexpandourNIMbythreebasispoints

throughourfocusonourrelationship-basedsalesapproach.Thisapproach,coupledwithourdeeplyembedded

riskprocess,resultedinhigherqualityandmoreconsistentrevenue.Anexampleofthiscanbeseenwithinour

commercialloanportfolio,whereloanyieldsdeclinedonlyfivebasispointsfromfourthquarterof2011tofourth

quarter2012,aswemadeaconsciousdecisiontoforegosomegrowthduetohighlycompetitivepricing.Equally

importantareourfundingcosts.The12%growthinconsumerhouseholdsand9%growthincommercial

relationshipsexperiencedin2012startwitheachcustomer’sprimarycheckingaccount.Witheachnew

relationship,weimprovethequalityofourdepositsandtheHuntingtonfranchise.
Nearhistorically-lowinterestratesnegativelyimpactedmanypartsofourbusiness.However,the
investmentswehavemadeoverthelasttwoyearsaddedover$50millionofpre-taxincomeduring2012,and

severalareasexperiencedrecordperformance.Ourmortgagegrouphadarecordyearwhileassistingover60,000
1customerswithnewresidentialmortgagesandconsumerloans.AutomobileFinance,wherewehaveanover50-
yearlegacyanddistinctexpertise,originatedarecord$4billionofautomobileloansandmadegreatprogress

withourexpansionintotheNewEnglandandnorthernMidwestmarkets.Smallbusinessesareacriticalpriority

forus.WewereonceagaintheNo.1SmallBusinessAdministrationlenderacrossoursix-statefootprintand

ranked“HighestinCustomerSatisfactionwithSmallBusinessBanking”accordingtoJ.D.PowerandAssociates.
Our“FairPlay”bankingphilosophyimplementedin2010alignswiththespiritofmanyofthenew
consumerbankingregulations.Otherbankscontinuetoaddfeesandreduceconvenience,whilewebelievethe

pathtolong-termrelationshipswithourcustomersisthroughasuperiorlevelofservicebuiltaroundsimple

productsthatareeasytounderstand.AsshownbybeingnamedoneoftheBestBanksinAmerica2012by

MONEYMagazineandthenearly10%increaseinthepercentageofbothconsumerandcommercialcustomers

with4+productsandservicesoverthepasttwoyears,customersagree.Lookingforward,webelievethesedeep

relationshipswillassistusoverthenextseveralyears,aswenavigateaconsiderableamountofnewregulation

thathasyettobefinalizedandimplemented.WhetheritisthefinalBaselIIIcapitalandliquiditystandards,new

rulessetforthbytheConsumerFinancialProtectionBureau,ormovingfromtheFederalReserveBoardCapital

PlanReview(CapPR)toitsComprehensiveCapitalAnalysisandReview(CCAR),wewillcontinuetoadaptand

driveourfinancialperformanceconsistentwithourlong-termstrategies.
2012PerformanceRecap
Netincomeincreased18%totherecordlevelof$641.0millionandearningspercommonshareincreasedto
$0.71,or20%growthfromtheprioryearandaboveourlong-termgoalof6%-8%.Profitability,asmeasuredby

ourreturnonaverageassets(ROA)andreturnonaveragetangiblecommonequity,increasedto1.15%and

13.5%,respectively.Sinceweestablishedourlong-termgoalsin2010,2012wasthefirstyearthattheROAwas

withinourtargetedrangeof1.10%-1.35%.
Fully-taxableequivalenttotalrevenueincreased$204.1million,or8%,from2011asnoninterestincome
increased$117.2million,or12%,andnetinterestincomeincreased$86.8million,or5%,fromtheprioryear.
Theincreaseinnoninterestincomewasdrivenbya$107.7million,or129%,increaseinmortgagebanking
income,a$26.2million,or82%,increaseingainonsaleofloans,an$18.7million,or8%,increaseinservice

chargesondepositaccounts,an$11.6million,or32%,increaseincapitalmarketfees,andan$11.2million

bargainpurchasegainrelatedtotheacquisitionofFidelityBank.Thesepositiveimpactswereoffsetpartiallyby

a$29.4million,or26%,decreaseinelectronicbankingincome,whichwasnegativelyimpactedbyover$55

millionfromtheDurbinamendment,anda$16.0million,or11%,decreaseinotherincome,reflectinga$16.5

million,or62%,decreaseinautomobileoperatingleaseincome.Wecontinuetomakeprogressinshiftingthe

overallmixoftotalrevenuetowardsourgoalof40%asnoninterestincomewas38.8%oftotalrevenue,upfrom

37.4%in2011.
Netinterestincomeincreased$86.8million,or5%,in2012.Thisreflecteda$2.1billion,or4%,increasein
averageearningassetsanda3basispointincreaseintheNIMto3.41%.TheincreaseintheNIMreflectedthe

positiveimpactofa29basispointdeclineintotaldepositcoststhatwereoffsetpartiallybya24basispoint

declineintheyieldonearningsassetsanda2basispointdecreaserelatedtonon-depositfundingandotheritems.

Averagenoninterestbearingdepositsincreased$3.5billion,or41%,andrepresented27%oftotaldeposits.
The$2.1billion,or4%,increaseinaverageearningassetswasdrivenbythe$1.9billion,or10%,increase
inaveragetotalcommercialloansand$0.8billionincreaseinaverageloansheldforsale.Thosewereoffset

partiallybya$0.6billion,or3%,decreaseinaverageconsumerloansincludinga$1.4billion,or23%,decrease

inautomobileloans,reflecting$2.5billionofautomobileloanssoldthroughouttheyear.
Fortheyear,averagetotalcoredepositsincreased$3.1billion,or8%,reflectinga$3.8billion,or27%,
increaseintotaldemanddepositsanda$0.6billion,or4%,increaseinmoneymarketdeposits.Thesewereoffset
2partiallybythe$1.5billion,or19%,decreaseincorecertificatesofdeposit.Throughourstrategicfocuson
growingconsumerhouseholdsandcommercialrelationshipsbyearningtheirprimarychecking(demanddeposit)

accounts,wecontinuetoimproveouroverallfundingmix.
Noninterestexpenseincreased$107.4million,or6%,in2012.Thisincludeda$95.7million,or11%,
increaseinpersonnelcostsprimarilyreflectingtheadditionof561full-timeequivalentemployees,aswellas

higherincentivebasedcompensationanda$10.4million,or11%,increaseinequipmentprimarilyreflectingthe

implementationofstrategicinitiatives,includingopening37,or6%,netnewbranches.Theseincreaseswere

offsetpartiallybya$9.3million,or12%,decreaseindepositandotherinsuranceexpense.Thefullyear2012

included$14millionofnoninterestexpenserelatedtotheFidelityacquisition,whichclosedonMarch30,2012.

Ourefficiencyratio(noninterestexpenseasapercentageoftotalrevenue)modestlyimprovedto63.4%,but

remainsaboveourlong-termgoalofmid50%’s.Theinvestmentswehavemadeandtheactionswearetaking

provideuswithapathtoanefficiencyratiobelow60%.However,fortheCompanytoreachitslong-termgoal,

wewillneedtoexperienceamorenormalinterestrateenvironment.
Sinceturningthecorneroncreditin2011,ourprovisionforcreditlosseshasbeenatthelowendofour
long-termexpectations.In2012,theprovisionforcreditlossesdecreasedanother$26.7million,or15%,to

$147.4millionreflectinga$94.6million,or22%,decreaseinnetcharge-offs(NCOs)to$342.5million,or

0.85%ofaveragetotalloansandleases.Ofthisyear’sNCOs,$34.6millionrelatedtoregulatoryguidance

requiringconsumerloansdischargedunderChapter7bankruptcytobechargeddowntocollateralvalue.

Approximately90%continuetomakepaymentsasscheduled.Importantly,nonperformingassetsdeclinedby

$144.5million,or25%,to$445.8millionandwereatthelowestlevelsince2006.
Ourtangiblecommonequityratioimproved46basispointsto8.76%,andourTier1commonrisk-based
capitalratioimproved48basispointsto10.48%fromDecember31,2011.Forperspective,thesearethehighest

commonequitybasedcapitalratiosfortheCompanyinthelast20years.TheregulatoryTier1risk-basedcapital

ratioof12.02%atDecember31,2012remainedover$2.9billionabovethe“well-capitalized”regulatory

thresholdsbutwasdownfrom12.11%,atDecember31,2011.Thisdeclinereflectedcapitalactionstaken

throughouttheyear,includingtheredemptionof$230millionoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandtherepurchaseof

23.3millioncommonsharesatanaveragepriceof$6.36pershare.
ThefulldetailofourfinancialperformanceisdiscussedintheManagementDiscussionandAnalysis
sectionfoundlaterintheattachedSECForm10-K.Pleasetaketheopportunitytoreadthis.Itprovidesadditional

insightsanddiscussionrelatedtoour2012financialperformance.
2013Expectations
Aswehavedonesinceearly2010,wewillcontinueexecutingourcorestrategy,growingmarketshareand
increasingthenumberofproductscrosssoldthroughselectiveinvestmentsininitiativestogrowlong-term

profitability.Wewillremaindisciplinedinourgrowthandpricingofloansanddepositsandareencouragedby

thethreebasispointsofnetinterestmarginexpansionduring2012.Wecontinuetoexpectcreditqualityto

improveandnetcharge-offsshouldapproachthehigherendofournormalizedlevelsof35to55basispointsof

totalloansbytheendof2013.Wewillstayfocusedonincreasingcustomercross-sellratiosanddelivering

positiveoperatingleverage.
Overthecourseof2013,netinterestincomeisexpectedtoshowmodestimprovementfromthe2012level.
Weanticipateanincreaseintotalloans,excludingtheimpactofanyfutureloansecuritizations,althoughwe

expectgrowthwillbemoreheavilyweightedtothesecondhalfoftheyear.However,thosebenefitstonet

interestincomefromhigherbalancesareexpectedmostlytobeoffsetbydownwardNIMpressure.NIMisnot

expectedtofallbelowthemid3.30%’sduetocontinueddepositrepricingandmixshiftopportunities,while

maintainingadisciplinedapproachtoloanpricing.
3Excludingpotentialfutureautomobileloansecuritizations,weanticipatetheincreaseintotalloanswill
outpacegrowthintotaldepositsmodestly.Thisreflectsourcontinuedfocusontheoverallcostoffundsaswell

asthecontinuedshifttowardslow-andno-costdemanddepositsandmoneymarketdepositaccounts.
Noninterestincomeoverthecourseoftheyear,excludingtheimpactofanyautomobileloansales,anynet
MSRimpact,andtypicalfirstquarterseasonality,isexpectedtoberelativelystable.Theanticipatedslowdown

inmortgagebankingactivityisexpectedtobeoffsetbycontinuedgrowthinnewcustomers,increased

contributionfromhighercross-sell,andthecontinuedmaturationofourpreviousstrategicinvestments.
Noninterestexpensecontinuedtorunatlevelsaboveourlong-termexpectationsrelativetorevenue.In
responsetochangesinoureconomicoutlook,wehavemoderatedthepaceandsizeofourplannedinvestmentsin

ordertodrivepositiveoperatingleverageagainin2013.
CommitmenttoOurShareholders
Wearecommittedtodeliveringlong-termvaluetoourshareholders.AtHuntington,webelievethat
balancing“doingtherightthing”forourshareholders,colleagues,customers,andcommunitiesisthepathto

developingarobustfranchisethatcanproducethestablereturnsneededtocreatelong-termvalue.Twoexamples

ofthatbalanceare1)howour$4billioncommitmenttosmallbusinesslendingintheMidwesthashelpeddrive

therecoveryofthelocaleconomyandalsoassistedHuntingtoningrowingaveragecommercialandindustrial

loansby16%over2011;and2)howtheinvestmentsinourcolleaguewellnessprogramleadtolowercostof

insuranceandimprovedproductivitythroughlowercolleagueturnoverandhighercolleaguesatisfaction.
TheprudentdeploymentofcapitalisoneofthemostfundamentalundertakingsbytheBoardandexecutive
leadership.AsIdiscussedabove,wetookactionsin2012toincreasetheamountofcapitalreturnedto

shareholders.Aswecontinuetogeneratecapital,wewillbeprudentinitsallocation.First,wewillinvestinour

corestrategy,albeitataslowerpacethanin2012.Second,wewillprovideourshareholdersadividend.Withthe

regulatorstargetingadividendpayoutratioofupto30%,asourincomegrows,thensoshouldourdividend.

Last,wecontinuetoevaluateothercapitalactionsincludingsharerepurchasesandmergersandacquisitions.As

wehaveshownoverthelastseveralyears,wewillcontinuetomaintainahighlevelofdisciplinewhen

consideringmergersandacquisitions.
Lastyear,Iwroteabouthowwetookstepstoalignexecutives’interestswithlong-termshareholders’
interestsbyincreasingcommonstockownershipbyrequiringthat50%ofnetsharesreceivedbysenior

leadershipthroughincentiveplansbehelduntilretirement.Tofurtheraligntheseinterests,in2012,we

implementedperformanceshareunitsas50%ofthelong-termincentiveprogramforkeyseniorexecutives,as

wellasextendedourmarketleadingownershipguidelinesandholduntilretirementrequirementsdeeperwithin

theCompany’smanagementstructure.
IwanttothankDavidLauer,whoisretiringfromtheBoardeffectiveattheannualmeeting,forhis
dedicatedserviceandinvaluablecounseltoHuntington.Davidhasbeenaleaderinmanycriticalareas,serving

notonlyasthechairmanoftheauditcommittee,butalsoastheleadofseveralothersubcommitteesoverhis

tenure.Throughhisreferralsandsupportofourbusinessinitiatives,hehasbeenanextraordinaryfriendand

ambassadorfortheBankacrossthegreaterColumbusarea.Wearegratefulforhisserviceandextendourwarm

wishestohim.
InadditiontothepersonalprideIhaveforwhattheHuntingtonteamhasaccomplishedoverthelastseveral
yearsforourshareholders,Iamespeciallyproudofourcolleaguesfortheirdeepcommitmenttoour

communities.OneexampleisPelotonia,theannualbiketourthatraisesfundsfortheJamesCancerHospitaland

SoloveResearchInstitute,whichcontinuestobearallyingpointforHuntington’scolleagues.Sincetheinaugural

eventin2009,wehaveraisedover$6.1milliontowardscuringcancer,andin2012,morethan1,300ofour

approximately11,000colleaguesrodeinorvolunteeredfortheevent.
4Lookingbackat2012,itwasaverygoodyearaswemadesignificantprogresstowardallofourlong-term
financialtargets.Weenter2013amuchstrongerCompanywithasoundstrategyandgoodmomentumina

numberofkeyareas.Thiswillbeanotherchallengingyeargiventhecontinuedsluggisheconomicgrowthanda

verylowandflatinterestratecurve.However,weremainconfidentinourstrategiesandresolvetocontinue

deliveringstrongfinancialresults.Wethankyou—ourshareholders,customers,andcolleagues—foryour

continuedsupport.
StephenD.Steinour

Chairman,PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer

March4,2013
5CopyrightNoticeandDisclaimer
HuntingtonBankreceivedthehighestnumericalscoreintheproprietaryJ.D.PowerandAssociates2012SmallBusinessBankingSatisfactionStudy(S
M).Study
basedon7,246totalresponses,measuring25financialinstitutionsandmeasuresopinionsofsmallbusinesscustomerswithannualrevenuesfrom$10
0,000to$10
million.ProprietarystudyresultsarebasedonexperiencesandperceptionsofcustomerssurveyedinAugust-September2012.Yourexperiencesmayv
ary.Visit
jdpower.comFromMONEYMagazine,October2012
©2012TimeInc.MONEYisaregisteredtrademarkofTimeInc.andisusedunderlicense.MONEYandTimeInc.are
notaffiliatedwith,anddonotendorseproductsorservicesof,Licensee.
COMMONSTOCKANDDIVIDENDINFORMATION
2013DIVIDENDPAYABLEDATES
QUARTERPAYABLEDATE
1STApril1,2013
2NDJuly1,2013*

3RDOctober1,2013*

4THJanuary2,2014*
*SubjecttoactionbyBoardofDirectors
2012CASHDIVIDENDDECLAREDDATA
QUARTERRECORDDATEPAYABLEDATE
PERCOMMON
SHAREAMOUNT
1STMarch19,2012April2,2012$0.04
2NDJune18,2012July2,20120.04

3RDSeptember17,2012October1,20120.04

4THDecember18,2012January2,20130.04
COMMONSTOCKPRICE
201220112010200920082007
High$7.25$7.70$7.40$8.00$14.87$24.14

Low5.494.463.651.004.3713.50

Close6.395.496.873.657.6614.76
20-YEARDIVIDENDHISTORY
CASHDIVIDENDSDECLARED(1)STOCKDIVIDENDS/SPLITSDISTRIBUTIONDATEOFSTOCK
DIVIDEND/SPLIT19930.3510%StockDividend07/30/93
19940.435/4StockSplit07/29/94

19950.485%StockDividend07/31/95

19960.5210%StockDividend07/31/96

19970.5710%StockDividend07/31/97

19980.6310%StockDividend07/31/98

19990.6910%StockDividend07/30/99

20000.7610%StockDividend07/31/00

20010.72——

20020.64——
CASHDIVIDENDSDECLARED(1)STOCKDIVIDENDS/SPLITSDISTRIBUTIONDATEOFSTOCK
DIVIDEND/SPLIT20030.67——
20040.75——

20050.85——

20061.00——

20071.06——

20080.66——

20090.04——

20100.04——

20110.10——

20120.16——
(1)Restatedforstockdividendsandstocksplitsasapplicable.
FORWARD-LOOKINGSTATEMENTDISCLOSURE
Thisreport,includingthelettertoshareholders,containscertainforward-lookingstatements,includingcertain
plans,expectations,goals,projections,andstatements,whicharesubjecttonumerousassumptions,risks,and

uncertainties.Statementsthatdonotdescribehistoricalorcurrentfacts,includingstatementsaboutbeliefsand

expectations,areforward-lookingstatements.Theforward-lookingstatementsareintendedtobesubjecttothe

safeharborprovidedbySection27AoftheSecuritiesActof1933,Section21EoftheSecuritiesExchangeAct

of1934,andthePrivateSecuritiesLitigationReformActof1995.Actualresultscoulddiffermateriallyfrom

thosecontainedorimpliedbysuchstatementsforavarietyoffactors.PleaserefertoItem1A“RiskFactors”and

the“AdditionalDisclosure”sectionsinHuntington’sForm10-KfortheyearendingDecember31,2012,for

additionalinformation.Allforward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandarebasedon

informationavailableatthattime.Weassumenoobligationtoupdateforward-lookingstatements.Asforward-

lookingstatementsinvolvesignificantrisksanduncertainties,cautionshouldbeexercisedagainstplacingundue

relianceonsuchstatements.
1 
 
UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EX
CHANGE COMMISSION 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
 
FORM 10-K 
 
 (Mark One) 
[
X
] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 
 
or 
 
   [
   
] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or
 15(d) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934 
 
Commission File Number 
1-34073
 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
(Exact name of registrant 
as specified in its charter) 
Maryland 31-0724920 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
 organization)(I.R.S. Empl
oyer Identification No.)
41 S. High Street, Columbus, Ohio 43287 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 
 
      Registrant's telephone number, including area code 
(614) 480-8300 
 
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   
 
Title of class         Name of exchange on which registered 
8.50% Series A non-voting, perpetual convertible preferred stock     NASDAQ 
 
Common Stock - Par Value $0.01 per Share        NASDAQ 
 
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  
Title of class 
Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
 
Depositary Shares (each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Floating Rate Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred 
Stock)  
 
 
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known season
ed issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Exchange Ac
t.  
[X] Yes   [   ] No 
 
 Indicate by check mark if the regi
strant is not required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  [   ] Ye
s   [X] No 
 
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
 (1) has filed all reports required to be
 filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Sec
urities 
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
 months (or for such shorter period that 
the registrant was required to file such r
eports), 
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
 for the past 90 days.   [X] Yes   [   ] No 
 
 Indicate by check mark whether the registra
nt has submitted electronically
 and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
 
Interactive Data File required to be submitte
d and posted pursuant to
 Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§
232.405 of this
 chapter) dur
ing the 
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registra
nt was required to submit and post such files).   [X] Yes   [ 
  ] No 
 
 Indicate by check mark if disclo
sure of delinquent filers pursua
nt to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and 
will 
not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in de
finitive proxy or information statem
ents incorporated by referenc
e in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendmen
t to this Form 10-K.   [ X ] 
 
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or 
a smaller 
reporting company. See definition of ﬁlarge accelerated filerﬂ, ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ, and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12
b-2 of 
the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
 
 Large accelerated filer [X]       Accelerated filer [   ] 
 
2 
 
 Non-accelerated filer [   ]  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  Smaller reporting company [   ] 
 
 Indicate by check mark whether the registra
nt is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act) [   ]Yes   [X]No 
 
 The aggregate market value of voting and no
n-voting common equity held 
by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2012
, 
determined by using a per share closing price 
of $6.40, as quoted by NASDAQ on that date, was $5,349,102,938.  As of January 31
, 
2013, there were 842,005,721 shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 outstanding. 
 
Documents Incorporated By Reference 
 
 
 Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates
 by reference certain information from the 
registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for 
the 
2013 Annual Shareholders' Meeting. 
3 
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED
INDEX 
Part I.
 
 
Item 1. 
Business 
6
 
Item 1A. 
Risk Factors 
15
 
Item 1B. 
Unresolved Staff Comments 
21
 
Item 2. 
Properties 
21
 
Item 3. 
Legal Proceedings 
21
 
Item 4.   
Mine Safety Disclosures 
21
Part II.
 
 
Item 5. 
Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related Shareholde
r Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
22
 
Item 6.   
Selected Financial Data 
24
 
Item 7. 
Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Fi
nancial Condition and Re
sults of Operations 
25
 
 
Introduction 
25
 
 
Executive Overview 
26
 
 
Discussion of Results of Operations 
30
 
 
Risk Management and Capital: 
 
 
Credit Risk 
40
 
 
Market Risk 
57
 
 
Liquidity Risk 
60
 
 
Operational Risk 
67
 
 
Compliance Risk 
68
 
 
Capital 
67
 
 
Business Segment Discussion 
72
 
 
Additional Disclosures 
94
 
Item 7A. 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclo
sures About Market Risk 
98
 
Item 8. 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
98
 
Item 9. 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountan
ts on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
195
 
Item 9A. 
Controls and Procedures 
196
 
Item 9B. 
Other Information 
196
Part III.
 
 
Item 10. 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
196
 
Item 11. 
Executive Compensation 
196
 
Item 12. 
Security Ownership of Certain Be
neficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters 
197
 
Item 13.  
Certain Relationships and Related Tran
sactions, and Director Independence 
197
 
Item 14. 
Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
197
Part IV.
 
 
Item 15.  
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
197
 Signatures
 
198
  
4 
 
Glossary of Acronyms and Terms 
 
The following listing provides a comprehensive reference of common acronyms and terms used throughout the document: 
 
ABL
 
 
Asset Based Lending 
ACL 
 
Allowance for Credit Losses 
AFCRE 
 
Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
ALCO 
 
Asset-Liability Management Committee 
ALLL 
 
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
ARM 
 
Adjustable Rate Mortgage 
ASC 
 
Accounting Standards Codification 
ASU 
 
Accounting Standards Update 
ATM 
 
Automated Teller Machine 
AULC 
 
Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments 
AVM 
 
Automated Valuation Methodology 
BHC 
 
Bank Holding Companies 
C&I 
 
Commercial and Industrial 
CapPR 
 
Federal Reserve Board's Capital Plan Review 
CCAR 
 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
CDO 
 
Collateralized Debt Obligations 
CDs 
 
Certificate of Deposit 
CFPB 
 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection 
CMO 
 
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations 
CRE 
 
Commercial Real Estate 
Dodd-Frank Act 
 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
EPS 
 
Earnings Per Share 
ERISA 
 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
EVE 
 
Economic Value of Equity 
Fannie Mae 
 
(see FNMA) 
FASB 
 
Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIC 
 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FDICIA 
 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 
FHA 
 
Federal Housing Administration 
FHFA 
 
Federal Housing Finance Agency 
FHLB 
 
Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC 
 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICA 
 
Federal Insurance Contributions Act 
FICO 
 
Fair Isaac Corporation 
FNMA 
 
Federal National Mortgage Association 
Franklin 
 
Franklin Credit Management Corporation 
FRB 
 
Federal Reserve Bank 
Freddie Mac 
 
(see FHLMC) 
FTE 
 
Fully-Taxable Equivalent 
FTP 
 
Funds Transfer Pricing 
GAAP 
 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America 
HAMP 
 
Home Affordable Modification Program 
HARP 
 
Home Affordable Refinance Program 
IRS 
 
Internal Revenue Service 
5 
 
ISE 
 
Interest Sensitive Earnings 
LCR 
 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
LIBOR 
 
London Interbank Offered Rate 
LGD 
 
Loss-Given-Default 
LTV 
 
Loan to Value 
MD&A 
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
MSA 
 
Metropolitan Statistical Area 
MSR 
 
Mortgage Servicing Rights 
N
ALs 
 
N
onaccrual Loans 
N
AV 
 
N
et Asset Value 
N
CO 
 
N
et Charge-off 
N
CUA 
 
N
ational Credit Union Administration 
N
PAs 
 
N
onperforming Assets 
N
PR 
 
N
otice of Proposed Rulemaking 
N
.R. 
 
N
ot relevant. Denominato
r
 of calculation is a gain in the current period compared with a loss in 
the prior period, or vice-versa 
N
SF / OD 
 
N
onsufficient Funds and Overdraf
t
 
OCC 
 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
OCI 
 
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
OCR 
 
Optimal Customer Relationship   
OLEM 
 
Other Loans Especially Mentioned 
OREO 
 
Other Real Estate Owned 
OTTI 
 
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PD 
 
Probability-Of-Default 
Plan 
 
Huntington Bancshares Retirement Plan 
Problem Loans 
 
Includes nonaccrual loans and leases (Table 14), troubled debt restructured loans (Table 16), and 
accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more (Table 15) 
REIT 
 
Real Estate Investment Trust 
Reg E 
 
Regulation E, of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act 
ROC 
 
Risk Oversight Committee 
SAD 
 
Special Assets Division 
SBA 
 
Small Business Administration 
SEC 
 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
Sky Financial 
 
Sky Financial Group, Inc. 
TARP 
 
Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TARP Capital 
 
Series B Preferred Stock, repurchased in 2010 
TCE 
 
Tangible Common Equity 
TDR 
 
Troubled Debt Restructured loan 
TLGP 
 
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 
Treasury 
 
U.S. Department of the Treasury 
UCS 
 
Uniform Classification System 
UPB 
 
Unpaid Principal Balance 
USDA 
 
U.S. Department of Agriculture 
VA 
 
U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs 
VIE 
 
Variable Interest Entity 
WGH 
 
Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending 
6 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
PART I 
When we refer to ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁour,ﬂ and ﬁusﬂ in this report, we 
mean Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and our consolidated 
subsidiaries, unless the context indicates that
 we refer only to the parent company, Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.  When 
we 
refer to the ﬁBankﬂ in this report, we 
mean our only bank subsidiary, The Huntin
gton National Bank, and its subsidiaries. 
Item 1: Business  
We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding compan
y organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in 
Columbus, Ohio.  We have 11,806 full-time e
quivalent employees.  Through the Bank, we
 have 147 years of serving the financial 
needs of our customers.  We provide full-service commercial, small 
business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking servic
es, 
automobile financing, equipment leasing, i
nvestment management, trust services, brokera
ge services, insurance programs, and oth
er 
financial products and services.  The Bank, organized in 1866, is our only bank subsidiary. At December 31, 2012, the Bank had 
691 
branches as follows: 
Ł 395 branches in Ohio  Ł 49 branches in Indiana 
Ł 150 branches in Michigan  Ł 30 branches in West Virginia 
Ł 55 branches in Pennsylvania 
  Ł 12 branches in Kentucky 
 
Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in 
various other states.  International banking services are 
available through the headqu
arters office in Columbus, Ohio, a limited purpose 
office located in the Cayman Islands, and anothe
r 
located in Hong Kong.  Our foreign ba
nking activities, in total or with any individual country, are not significant.   
 
Our business segments ar
e based on our internally-aligned se
gment leadership structu
re, which is how we 
monitor results and 
assess performance.  For each of our four business segments, we expect the combination of our business model and exceptional 
service to provide a competitive advantage that supports revenue 
and earnings growth.  Our business model emphasizes the delive
ry of 
a complete set of banking products and serv
ices offered by larger banks, but distingu
ished by local delivery and customer servi
ce.   
 
A key strategic emphasis has been for our business segments to op
erate in cooperation to provid
e products and services to our 
customers and to build stronger and more profitable relationships 
using our OCR sales and service process.  The objectives of O
CR 
are to: 
 
1.Provide a consultative sales appro
ach to provide solutions that are specific to each customer. 
2.Leverage each business segment in terms of its products and expertise to benefit customers. 
3.Target prospects who may want to ha
ve multiple products and services as pa
rt of their relationship with us. 
Following is a description of our four busin
ess segments and Treasury / Other function: 

Retail and Business Banking
 Œ This segment provides a wide array of fi
nancial products and services to consumer and 
small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, 
certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business lo
ans and leases.  Other financial services available to 
consumer and small business customers include investments, in
surance services, interest rate risk protection products, 
foreign exchange hedging, and treasury management service
s.  We serve customers primar
ily through our network of 
traditional branches in Ohio, Michigan, 
Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and 
Kentucky.  We also have branches 
located in grocery stores in Ohio and Michigan.  In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access 
Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone banking, and over 1,350 ATMs.   
We established a ﬁFair Playﬂ banking 
philosophy and 
built a reputation for meeting the 
banking needs of consumers 
in a manner which makes them feel sup
ported and appreciated.  We believe customers are recognizing this and other 
efforts as key differentiators and it is earning 
us more customers and deeper relationships.  
  
7 
 
Business Banking is a dynamic and grow
ing part of our business and we are 
committed to being the bank of choice 
for small businesses in our markets. Business Banking is define
d as companies with revenu
es up to $25 million and 
consists of approximately 163,000 businesses.  We contin
ue to develop products and services that are designed 
specifically to meet the needs of small business. 
 We continue to look for ways to he
lp companies find solutions to their 
capital needs.   

Regional and Commercial Banking
 Œ This segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle 
market and large corporate customers located primarily 
within our eleven regional co
mmercial banking markets.  
Products and services are delivered through a relationship 
banking model and include commercial lending, as well as 
depository and liquidity management pr
oducts.  Dedicated teams collaborate w
ith our relationship bankers to deliver 
complex and customized treasury management solutions, 
equipment and technology leasi
ng, international services, 
capital markets services such as interest r
ate risk protection products, foreign exch
ange hedging and sales, trading of 
securities, mezzanine investment capabilities, and employee benefit programs (insurance, 401(k)).  The Commercial 
Banking team specializes in serving a number of industry segm
ents such as not-for-prof
it organizations, health-care 
entities, and large publicly-traded companies.   

Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
 Œ This segment provides lending and other banking products and 
services to customers outside of our normal retail and comme
rcial banking segments.  Our products and services include 
financing for the purchase of automobiles by customers at 
automotive dealerships, financ
ing the acquisition of new and 
used vehicle inventory of automotive d
ealerships, and financing for land, buildin
gs, and other commercial real estate 
owned or constructed by real estate developers, automobile
 dealerships, or other customers with real estate project 
financing needs.  Products and services are delivered th
rough highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and 
product partners.  Huntington creates 
well-defined relationship plans which iden
tify needs where solutions are developed 
and customer commitments are obtained.   
The Automotive Finance team se
rvices automobile dealership
s, its owners, and consumers buying automobiles 
through these dealerships. Huntington ha
s provided new and used automobile fi
nancing and dealer 
services throughout 
the Midwest since the early 1950s. This consistency in th
e market and our focus on working with strong dealerships, has 
allowed us to expand into selected market
s outside of the Midwest and to activ
ely deepen relationshi
ps while building a 
strong reputation.  
The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that 
are secured by commercial properties.  Most of our customers are located within our footprint. 

Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending
 Œ This segment consists of our wealth management, 
government banking, and home lending businesses. In wealth 
management, Huntington provides financial services to 
high net worth clients in our primary 
banking markets and Florida. Huntington 
provides these services
 through a unified 
sales team, which consists of private bankers, trust officers, 
and investment advisors. Aligned with the eleven regional 
commercial banking markets, this coordinated service model de
livers products and services directly and through the 
other segment product partners.  A fundamental point of diff
erentiation is our commitment to
 be in the market, working 
closely with clients and their other advisors to identify need
s, offer solutions and provide ongoing advice in an optimal 
client experience. 
The Government Finance Group provides financial product
s and services to government and other public sector 
entities in our primary banking markets. A locally based team of
 relationship managers works with clients to meet their 
trust, lending, and treasury management needs. 
Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in 
our primary banking markets. Consumer a
nd mortgage lending products are primar
ily distributed through the Retail and 
Business Banking segment, as well as through commissi
oned loan originators. Clos
ely aligned, our Community 
Development group serves an important role as it focuses on delivering on our commitment to the communities 
Huntington serves. 
The segment also includes the related businesses of 
investment management, inve
stment servicing, custody, 
corporate trust, and retirement plan services. Huntington 
Asset Advisors provides investment management services 
through a variety of internal and external channels, including 
advising the Huntington Funds
, our proprietary family of 
mutual funds and Huntington Strategy Shares, our actively-
managed exchange-traded funds.  Huntington Asset Services 
offers administrative and operational support to fund complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, 
administration, and distributio
n services.  Our retirement plan services business offers fully bundled and third party 
distribution of a variety of qualified and non-qualified plan solutions. 
8 
 
Treasury / Other function includes our 
insurance brokerage business, which specializes in commercial property and casualty, 
employee benefits, pers
onal lines, life and disability and specialty lines of 
insurance.  We also pr
ovide brokerage 
and agency 
services 
for residential and commercial title in
surance and excess and surplus product lines of
 insurance.  As an agent and broker we do
 not 
assume underwriting risks; instead we provide our customers w
ith quality, noninvestment insurance contracts.  The Treasury / Ot
her 
function also includes technology and operations, other 
unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. 
The financial results for each of these business segments are included in Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
and are discussed in the Business Segment Discussion of our MD&A.   
Competition 
We compete with other banks and financial services companies such
 as savings and loans, credit unions, and finance and trust 
companies, as well as mortgage banking co
mpanies, automobile and equipment financi
ng companies (including captive automobile 
finance companies), insurance companies, mutual funds, investment
 advisors, and brokerage firms, 
both within and outside of our
 
primary market areas.  Internet companies are also providing nontraditional, but increasingly strong, competition for our borro
wers, 
depositors, and other customers.   
We compete for loans primarily on the basis of a combination of 
value and service by building cust
omer relationships as a resul
t 
of addressing our customers™ entire suite of banking needs, dem
onstrating expertise, and providin
g convenience to our customers
.  We 
also consider the competitive pricing pressures in each of our markets. 
We compete for deposits similarly on a basis of a combinatio
n of value and service and by pr
oviding convenience through a 
banking network of 691 branches and over 1,350 ATMs within ou
r markets and our award-winning 
website at www.huntington.com.  
We have also instituted new and more customer
 friendly practices, such as our 24-Hour Grace
®
 account feature, which gives 
customers an additional business day to cover overdrafts to their consumer account without being charged overdraft fees.  
The table below shows our comp
etitive ranking and market share ba
sed on deposits of FDIC-insure
d institutions as of June 30, 
2012, in the top 10 metropolitan statisti
cal areas (MSA) in which we compete: 
 
MSA Rank 
Deposits (in 
millions) Market Share 
Columbus, OH 1 $13,171  28% 
Detroit, MI 7 4,538 5 
Cleveland, OH 5 4,212 8 
Pittsburgh, PA 8 2,526 3 
Indianapolis, IN 4 2,508 7 
Toledo, OH 1 2,409 24 
Cincinnati, OH 4 2,237 3 
Youngstown, OH 1 2,021 22 
Canton, OH 1 1,568 26 
Grand Rapids, MI 4 1,369 10 
Source: FDIC.gov
, based on June 30, 2012 survey. 
Many of our nonfinancial institution competito
rs have fewer regulatory constraints, br
oader geographic service areas, greater 
capital, and, in some cases, lower cost 
structures.  In addition, competition for quality
 customers has intensified as a result
 of changes 
in regulation, advances in tech
nology and product delivery systems, consolid
ation among financial service providers, bank failu
res, 
and the conversion of certain former invest
ment banks to bank holding companies. 
9 
 
Regulatory Matters  
We are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Federal Reserve, th
e OCC, the CFPB, and other federal and state regulators. 
Because we are a public company, we are subject to regulation by the SEC.  The SEC has established five categories of issuers f
or 
the purpose of filing periodic and annual reports.  Under these regulations, we are considered to be a large accelerated filer 
and, as 
such, must comply with SEC accelerated reporting requirements.  
We are a bank holding company and are qualified as a financial 
holding company with the Federal Reserve.  We are subject to 
examination and supervision by the Federal Re
serve pursuant to the Bank 
Holding Company Act. We are required to file reports an
d 
other information regarding our 
business operations and the business operations 
of our subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve. 
The Federal Reserve maintains a bank holding company rating syst
em that emphasizes risk management, introduces a framework 
for analyzing and rating financial factors, and provides a frame
work for assessing and rating the potential impact of non-depos
itory 
entities of a holding company on
 its subsidiary depository ins
titution(s).  A composite rating is 
assigned based on the foregoi
ng three 
components, but a fourth component is also rated, reflecting generally the assessment of depository institution subsidiaries by
 their 
principal regulators. The bank holding company rating system, whic
h became effective in 2005, applies to us.  The composite rat
ings 
assigned to us, like those assigned to ot
her financial institutions, are confidential and 
may not be disclosed, except to the e
xtent 
required by law. 
On December 17, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued Supervisory Letter SR 12-17, which sets forth an updated framework for the 
consolidated supervisio
n of large financial institutions, incl
uding bank holding companies with
 consolidated assets of $50 bill
ion or 
more.  The objectives of the new framework ar
e to enhance the resilience of a firm, lo
wer the probability of its failure, and r
educe the 
impact on the financial system in the event of an institution™s failure. With regard to resiliency, each firm is expected to en
sure that the 
consolidated organization and its core business lines can surviv
e under a broad range of internal or external stresses.  This r
equires 
financial resilience by maintaining suff
icient capital and liquidity, and operational 
resilience by maintaining effective corpo
rate 
governance, risk management, and recovery planning. With respect to lowering the probability of failure, each firm is expected 
to 
ensure the sustainability of its
 critical operations and ba
nking offices under a broad range 
of internal or external stresses. 
 This 
requires, among other things, effective re
solution planning that addr
esses the complexity and the 
interconnectivity of the firm
™s 
operations.  
The Bank, which is chartered by the OCC, is a national bank, an
d our only bank subsidiary.  It is subject to examination and 
supervision by the OCC and by the CFPB es
tablished by the Dodd-Frank 
Act.  Our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to 
examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve or, in the case of nonbank subsidiaries of the Bank, by the OCC.  Our subsid
iaries 
are subject to examination by other federal 
and state agencies, including, in the case 
of certain securities and investment man
agement 
activities, regulation by the SEC and the Fi
nancial Industry Re
gulatory Authority.  
The Bank is subject to affiliate transaction restrictions unde
r federal law, which limit certain tr
ansactions generally involvi
ng the 
transfer of funds by a subsidiary bank or its subsidiaries to 
its parent corporation or any nonb
ank subsidiary of its parent co
rporation, 
whether in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments,
 or asset purchases, or otherw
ise undertaking certain obligatio
ns on 
behalf of such affiliates.  Furthermore, co
vered transactions which are loans and extens
ions of credit must be secured within s
pecified 
amounts. In addition, all covered transactions and other affiliate transactions must be conducted on a market terms basis and u
nder 
circumstances that are substantially the same as 
such transactions with
 unaffiliated entities.  
Legislative and regulatory reforms continue to have signifi
cant impacts throughout the 
financial services industry.   
The Dodd-Frank Act, which is comple
x and broad in scope
, established the CFPB, whic
h has extensive regulatory and 
enforcement powers over consumer financial products and 
services, and the Financial Stability
 Oversight Council, which has 
oversight authority for monitoring and re
gulating systemic risk.  In addition, the D
odd-Frank Act alters the authority and duti
es of the 
federal banking and securities
 regulatory agencies, implements certain corpor
ate governance requiremen
ts for all public compani
es 
including financial institutions with regard to executive compensation, proxy access by shareholders, and certain whistleblower
 
provisions, and restricts certain proprieta
ry trading and hedge fund and private equ
ity activities of banks and their affiliate
s.  The 
Dodd-Frank Act also requires the issuance
 of many implementing regulations which w
ill take effect over several years, making it
 
difficult to anticipate the over
all impact to us, our customers, or the financial industry in general.   
With the appointment of a director for the C
FPB in January 2012, the CFPB began to 
exercise its full authority under the Dodd-
Frank Act.  For example, the CFPB comp
leted its first public enforcement actions rega
rding unfair, deceptive or abusive practic
es in 
connection with marketing, sales and operatio
n of certain add-on products o
ffered in connection with credit cards.  Furthermore
, in 
2012 the CFPB issued its first 
major regulation, which covers re
mittance transfers (international wire transfers) by consumers,
 which 
will take effect later in 2013.   
10 
 
In mid-January 2013, the CFPB issu
ed eight final regulations governing consumer 
mortgage lending. The first of these rules was 
issued on January 10, 2013, and 
included the ability to repay an
d qualified mortgage rule.  Th
is rule will impose additional 
requirements on lenders, including rules de
signed to require lenders to ensure borrowe
rs™ ability to repay their mortgage.  The
 same 
day, the CFPB also finalized a rule on escrow accounts for high-cost mortgages and a rule expanding the scope of the high-cost 
mortgage provision in the Truth in Lending Act.  On January 17
, 2013, the CFPB issued its final rules implementing provisions o
f the 
Dodd-Frank Act that relate to mortgage servicing, which will take 
effect on January 10, 2014.  
On January 18, 2013, the CFPB is
sued 
a final appraisal rule under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and six agencies including the CFPB, FRB, OCC, FDIC, NCUA, and 
FHFA issued an interagen
cy rule on appraisals for higher-priced
 mortgage loans.  A final rule 
on loan originat
or compensation w
as 
released on January 20
, 2013, and the industry expects a fin
al rule on integrated mo
rtgage disclosures with
in the next year.  W
e are 
evaluating these rules to de
termine their impact on the 
Bank and its affiliates.   
Our Tier 1 risk-based capital will be 
negatively impacted by the Collins Amendment pr
ovisions of the Do
dd-Frank Act. 
 
The Collins Amendment provision of the Do
dd-Frank Act imposes increased capital re
quirements in the 
future.  The Collins 
Amendment also requires federal 
banking regulators to establish mi
nimum leverage and risk-based ca
pital requirements to apply t
o 
insured depository institutions, 
bank and thrift holding companies, and system
ically important nonbank fi
nancial companies. The
se 
capital requirements must not be less than the Generally Appli
cable Risk Based Capital Requirements and the Generally Applicabl
e 
Leverage Capital Requirements as of July 21, 2010, and must not be
 quantitatively lower than the 
requirements that were in effe
ct for 
insured depository institutions as of July
 21, 2010. The Collins Amendment defines Ge
nerally Applicable Risk Based Capital 
Requirements and Generally Applicable Leverage Capital Require
ments to mean the risk-based capital requirements and minimum 
ratios of Tier 1 risk-based capital to aver
age total assets, respectively, established by
 the appropriate federal banking agenc
ies to apply 
to insured depository instituti
ons under the Prompt Corrective A
ction provisions, regardless of total consolidated asset size o
r foreign 
financial exposure.  Over a three year pha
se-out period, trust preferred securities 
will no longer qualify as Tier 1 risk-based
 capital for 
certain bank holding companies, in
cluding us.  The Collins Amendment stipulates that 
this phase out period be
gins in 2013.  We 
have 
plans in place, including trust preferred securities redemption, to minimize the impact of this amendment on us.   
 
Large bank holding companies are now required to submit annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve and conduct stress tests. 
 
The Federal Reserve published final amendmen
ts to Regulation Y to require large bank
 holding companies to submit capital plans 
to the Federal Reserve on an an
nual basis and to require such 
bank holding companies to obtain
 approval from the Federal Reserv
e 
under certain circumstances before making a capital distribution. This
 rule applies to us and all ot
her bank holding companies 
with 
$50 billion or more of total consolidated ass
ets. The first capital plans 
required under these rules 
were due on January 9, 201
2.  Capital 
plans for 2013 were required to be submitted on January 7, 2013
.  A large bank holding company™s capital plan must include an 
assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over at least th
e next nine quarters, a description of all planned capit
al actions 
over the planning horizon, a detailed description of the en
tity™s process for assessing capital adequacy, the entity™s capital 
policy, and 
a discussion of any expected changes to 
the banking holding company™s business plan that are likely to have a material impact o
n the 
firm™s capital adequacy or liquidity.  Th
e Federal Reserve will either object to a capital plan, in whole or in part, or provid
e a notice of 
non-objection no later than March 31
, 2013, for plans submitted by the January 7, 201
3 submission date.  If the Federal Reserve
 
objects to a capital plan, the bank holding 
company may not make any capital distributio
n other than those 
with respect to whic
h the 
Federal Reserve has indicated its non-objection. While we can give
 no assurances as to the outcome or specific interactions wit
h the 
regulators, based on the Capital Plan we s
ubmitted on January 7, 2013, we believe
 we have a strong
 capital position. 
 
The Federal Reserve, FDIC, and OCC banki
ng regulators issued proposed
 rules to implement section 
165 of the Dodd-Frank Act 
which requires financial institutio
ns with total consolid
ated assets of more than $10 billi
on ("covered banks") to conduct cert
ain stress 
tests on an annual basis.  The Federal Reserve issued their fi
nal capital plan rule in late 2011 and updated instructions in No
vember of 
2012 for BHCs that did not participate in the 2009 Supervisory
 Capital Assessment, but are required to submit under the capital
 plan 
rule as part of the annual Capital Plan Review (CapPR 2013).  Huntington participated as a CapPR BHC in 2012 and 2013.  The 
Dodd-Frank Act requires these regulations to define the ter
m "stress test"; establish methodologies for the conduct of the stre
ss tests 
that measure the Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio under at leas
t three different sets of conditions, including baseline, 
adverse, 
and severely adverse conditions; establish the form and content of 
a required regulatory report on the stress tests; and requir
e covered 
banks to publish a summary of the results of their stress tests.  For the purposes of the CapPR 2013, BHCs were required to sub
mit the 
results of stress tests based on two supervisory scenarios, at 
least one stressed scenario developed by the BHC, and a BHC base
line 
scenario.  We submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve on
 January 7, 2013, which include
d the impact to Tier 1 common 
risk-
based capital and total risk-b
ased capital ratios.   
 
The regulatory capital rules indicate th
at common stockholders™ equity should be th
e dominant element within Tier 1 capital and
 
that banking organizations should avoid overre
liance on non-common equity elements.  Un
der the Dodd-Frank Act, the ratio of Tie
r 1 
common equity to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capita
l 
and an indication of the quality of capital.   
 
11 
 
Rules have been proposed to implement the Volcker Rule. 
 
In October 2011, the Federal Reserve issu
ed proposed rules to implement the ﬁVolck
er Ruleﬂ required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 
The Volcker Rule prohibits an insured de
pository institution and its affiliates from: (i
) engaging in ﬁproprietary tradingﬂ and
 (ii) 
investing in or sponsoring certain types of funds (ﬁcovered fund
sﬂ) subject to certain limited exceptions.  These prohibitions 
are 
expected to impact the ability of U.S. bankin
g organizations to provide in
vestment management products and services that are 
competitive with nonbanking firms generally and with non-U.S. bank
ing organizations in overseas 
markets. The proposed rules wou
ld 
also effectively prohibit short-te
rm trading strategies by any U.S. banking orga
nization if those strategies involve instrument
s other 
than those specifically permitted for trading.
 We do not anticipate that impacts of th
e proposed rules will be material to our 
results of 
operations or financial position.  
 
The rules effecting debit card
 interchange fees under the Durbin Amendment, which became effective on October 1, 2011, have 
negatively impacted our electronic banking income. 
 
The Durbin Amendment required the Federal 
Reserve to establish a cap on the rate me
rchants pay banks for 
electronic clearing of
 
debit transactions (i.e. the interchange rate).  The Federal Rese
rve issued final rules
, effective October 1, 2011, for establi
shing 
standards, including a cap, for debit card interchange fees an
d prohibiting network exclusivity arrangements and routing restri
ctions.  
The final rule established standards for asse
ssing whether debit card interchange fees 
received by debit card issuers were reas
onable 
and proportional to 
the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit trans
actions.  Under the final rule, the maximum permiss
ible 
interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction, a 1 cent
 fraud 
prevention adjustmen
t, and 5 basis points multiplied by th
e value of the transaction. As a re
sult of implementing this lower de
bit card 
interchange fee structure, our electronic bank
ing income during 2012 was negatively imp
acted by over $55 million when compared 
to 
2011.   
There are restrictions on our ability 
to pay dividends. 
Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the primary so
urce of funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  
However, there are statutory limits on the am
ount of dividends that the Bank can pay to
 the holding company.
  Regulatory approv
al is 
required prior to the declaration of any dividends in an amount 
greater than its undivided profits
 or if the total of all divid
ends declared 
in a calendar year would exceed th
e total of its net income for th
e year combined with its retain
ed net income for the two prec
eding 
years, less any required transf
ers to surplus or common stock. 
 As a result of the deficit pos
ition of its undivided profits, f
or the year 
ended December 31, 2012, the Bank could not have declared and paid any cash dividends to the parent company without regulatory 
approval.   
Since the first quarter of 2008, the Bank has requested and received OCC approval each quarter for a capital reduction to enabl
e 
payment of periodic dividends to shareholders outside the Bank™s 
consolidated group on preferred and common stock of its REIT a
nd 
capital financing subsidiaries.  A wholly-own
ed nonbank subsidiary of the parent comp
any owns a portion of the preferred shares
 of 
the REIT and capital financing subsidiaries.  
With the exception of the RE
IT and capital financing subs
idiary dividends, we do 
not 
anticipate that the Bank will declare dividend
s to the holding company during 2013. 
If, in the opinion of the appli
cable regulatory authority, a bank
 under its jurisdiction 
is engaged in, or is
 about to engage i
n, an 
unsafe or unsound practice, such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such pra
ctice. 
Depending on the financial condition of the Ba
nk, the applicable regulato
ry authority might deem us to
 be engaged in an unsafe 
or 
unsound practice if the Bank were to pay di
vidends. The Federal Reserve and the OCC ha
ve issued policy statements that provide 
that 
insured banks and bank holding companies 
should generally only pay dividends out of 
current operating earnings.  Additionally, 
the 
Federal Reserve may prohibit bank holding companies from maki
ng any capital distributions, including payment of preferred and 
common dividends, if the Federal Reserve objects to the annual capital plan.
 
We are subject to the current capital requirements mandated by the Federal Reserve. 
 
The Federal Reserve sets risk-based capital 
ratio and leverage ratio guidelines for bank
 holding companies. Under the guideline
s 
and related policies, bank holding companies
 must maintain capital sufficient to meet both
 a risk-based asset ratio test and a 
leverage 
ratio test on a consolidated basis. The ri
sk-based ratio is determin
ed by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet com
mitments 
into four weighted categories, with higher 
weighting assigned to categ
ories perceived as representing greater risk. The risk-ba
sed ratio 
represents total capital divided by total ri
sk-weighted assets. The lever
age ratio is core capital divided by total assets adju
sted as 
specified in the guidelines. Th
e Bank is subject to substantially similar capital 
requirements.  Banking regulators are finaliz
ing 
changes to capital requirements that are expected to incorporate many of the Basel III capital requirements. 
 
Generally, under the currently applicable guidelines, a financial 
institution's capital is divided 
into two tiers. Institutions
 that must 
incorporate market risk exposure into their risk-based capital requir
ements may also have a third 
tier of capital in the form o
f restricted 
short-term subordinated 
debt. These tiers are: 
12 
 
 

Tier 1 risk-based capital, or co
re capital, which includes total equity plus 
qualifying capital securities and minority interes
ts, 
excluding unrealized gains and losses 
accumulated in other comprehensive in
come, and nonqualifying intangible and 
servicing assets.   
 

Tier 2 risk-based capital, or suppleme
ntary capital, which includes, among other th
ings, cumulative and limited-life preferred 
stock, mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt
, and the ACL, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets.  
 

Total risk-based capital is 
the sum of Tier 1 and Tie
r 2 risk-based capital.  
 
The Federal Reserve and the other federal banking regulators re
quire that all intangible assets (net of deferred tax), except 
originated or purchased MSRs, nonmortgage servicing assets, and 
purchased credit card relationships intangible assets, be deduc
ted 
from Tier 1 capital. However, the total amount of these items included in capital cannot exceed 100% of its Tier 1 capital.   
 
Under the risk-based guidelines to remain
 adequately-capitalized, financial instituti
ons are required to maintain a total risk-
based 
capital ratio of 8%, with 4% being Tier 1 risk-based capital.  Th
e appropriate regulatory authority may set higher capital requ
irements 
when they believe an instituti
on's circumstances warrant.   
 
Under the leverage guidelines, financial ins
titutions are required to maintain a Tier
 1 leverage ratio of at least 3%. The mini
mum 
ratio is applicable only to financial ins
titutions that meet certain specified criteria,
 including excellent asset quality, hig
h liquidity, low 
interest rate risk exposure, and the highest regulatory rating. 
Financial institutions not meeting these criteria are required 
to maintain a 
minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.   
 
Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject the fina
ncial institution to a variety of enforcement remedies avai
lable 
to the federal regulatory authorities. These in
clude limitations on the ability to pay di
vidends, the issuance by the regulator
y authority 
of a directive to increase capital, and 
the termination of deposit insurance by the 
FDIC.  In addition, th
e financial instituti
on could be 
subject to the measures described below under Prompt Correctiv
e Action as applicable to un
der-capitalized institutions.   
 
The risk-based capital standards of the Federal Reserve, the O
CC, and the FDIC specify that evalua
tions by the banking agencies
 
of a bank's capital adequacy will include an
 assessment of the exposu
re to declines in the economic value of a bank's capital d
ue to 
changes in interest rates. These banking agencies issued a join
t policy statement on interest rate 
risk describing prudent meth
ods for 
monitoring such risk that rely
 principally on internal measur
es of exposure and ac
tive oversight of risk
 management activities 
by 
senior management.   
 
FDICIA requires federal banking regulatory 
authorities to take Prompt Corrective Acti
on with respect to depository institutions
 
that do not meet minimum capital requir
ements. For these purposes, FDICIA es
tablishes five capital tiers: well-capitalized, 
adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly 
under-capitalized, and critica
lly under-capitalized.   
 
Throughout 2012, our regulatory cap
ital ratios and those of the Bank were in ex
cess of the levels established for well-capitali
zed 
institutions.  An institution is deemed 
to be well-capitalized if it has a total ris
k-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a 
Tier 1 risk-
based capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio
 of 5% or greater and is not subject to a regulatory order, ag
reement, or 
directive to meet and maintain a specific 
capital level for any 
capital measure.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2012
 
Well-capitalized
 
 
 
 
Excess
 
(dollar amounts in billions)
 
minimums
 
Actual
Capital (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ratios: 
 
 
 
 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 
Consolidated 
 5.00 
% 
 10.36 
%
$
 3.0 
 
 
Bank 
 5.00 
 
 9.05 
 2.2 
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 6.00 
 
 12.02 
 2.9 
 
 
Bank 
 6.00 
 
 10.49 
 2.1 
 
Total risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 10.00 
 
 14.50 
 2.2 
 
 
Bank 
 10.00 
 
 12.78 
 1.3 
 
 
 
 
(1) Amount greater than the well-capitalized minimum percentage. 
 
 
13 
 
FDICIA generally prohibits a depository in
stitution from making any capital 
distribution, including pa
yment of a cash dividend 
or 
paying any management fee to its holding company, if the depo
sitory institution would become under-capitalized after such payme
nt.  
Under-capitalized institutions are also subject 
to growth limitations and are required by th
e appropriate federal banking agenc
y to 
submit a capital restoration plan. If any depos
itory institution subsidiary of
 a holding company is required to submit a capita
l 
restoration plan, the holding company would 
be required to provide a 
limited guarantee regarding compliance with the plan as a 
condition of approval of such plan.  
 
Depending upon the severity of the und
er capitalization, the under-capitalized institu
tions may be subject to a number of 
requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell suff
icient voting stock to become 
adequately-capitalized, requirements 
to reduce 
total assets, cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on making any payment of principal or
 interest 
on their subordinated debt.  Critically 
under-capitalized institutions are subject to 
appointment of a receiver or conservator 
within 90 
days of becoming so classified.  
 
Under FDICIA, a depository institution that is not well-capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits an
d 
offering interest rates on deposits high
er than the prevailing rate in its market.
 Since the Bank is well-capitalized, the FDIC
IA 
brokered deposit rule did not adversely affect its ability to accept brokered deposits.  The Bank had $1.6 billion of such brok
ered 
deposits at December 31, 2012.   
 
In June 2012, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC (collectively, the Agencies) eac
h issued Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRs) that 
would revise and replace the Agencies™ current capital rules to align with the BASEL III capital standards and meet certain 
requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Certain requirements 
of the NPRs would establish more restrictive capital definitions, hig
her 
risk-weightings for certain asset classes, capital buffers and high
er minimum capital ratios. The 
NPRs were in a comment period
 
through October 22, 2012, and those comments are 
currently being evaluate
d by the Agencies.   
 
At the time of the NPR release, we evaluated the impact of the 
NPRs as proposed on our regul
atory capital ratios and we 
estimated a reduction of approximately 150 ba
sis points to our BASEL I Tier I Common ri
sk-based capital ratio
 based on our June
 30, 
2012 balance sheet compositio
n.  We anticipate that our capital ratios, on a BASE
L III basis, would continue to exceed the well
-
capitalized minimum requirements.  We are evalu
ating options to mitigate the capital im
pact of the NPRs and will provide furthe
r 
guidance upon issuance of fina
l rules by the Agencies.   
As a bank holding company, we must act as
 a source of financial and managerial strength 
to the Bank and the Bank is subject to 
affiliate transaction restrictions. 
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its 
subsidiary banks and must commit resources to
 support each such subsidiar
y bank. The Federal Reserve 
may require a 
bank holding
 
company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary ba
nk. It may charge the bank holdin
g company with engaging in uns
afe 
and unsound practices if the bank 
holding company fails to commit 
resources to such a subsidiary bank or if it undertakes actio
ns that 
the Federal Reserve believes might jeopardize the bank holding co
mpany™s ability to commit resources
 to such subsidiary bank.  
Any loans by a holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordi
nate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other 
indebtedness of such subsidiary 
bank. In the event of a bank holding company's 
bankruptcy, an appointed bankruptcy trustee will
 
assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank re
gulatory agency to maintain th
e capital of a subsidiary bank. 
Moreover, the bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such
 commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over t
he 
claims of the institution's general 
unsecured creditors, in
cluding the holders of its note obligations.  
Federal law permits the OCC to order the pro-rata assessment of sh
areholders of a national bank whose capital stock has become 
impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve
 a deficiency in such national bank™s cap
ital stock. This statute also provides for
 the 
enforcement of any such pro-rata assessment of shareholders of su
ch national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by 
sale, 
to the extent necessary, of the 
capital stock owned by any assesse
d shareholder failing to pay th
e assessment.  As the sole sha
reholder 
of the Bank, we are subject to such provisions.  
Moreover, the claims of a receiver of an 
insured depository institution for administrativ
e expenses and the claims of holders o
f 
deposit liabilities of such an in
stitution are accorded
 priority over the claims of general 
unsecured creditors of such an inst
itution, 
including the holders of the institution'
s note obligations, in the event of liquida
tion or other resolution of such institutio
n. Claims of a 
receiver for administrative expenses and claims of holders of deposit liabilities of the Bank, including the FDIC as the insure
r of such 
holders, would receive priority over the holders of notes and other senior debt of the Bank in the event of liquidation or othe
r 
resolution and over our interests as sole shareholder of the Bank.  
14 
 
As a financial holding company, we are subject to additional laws and regulations. 
 
In order to maintain its status as a financ
ial holding company, a bank holding compan
y's depository subsidiaries must all be bo
th 
well-capitalized and well-managed, and must meet th
eir Community Reinvestment Act obligations.  
 
Financial holding company powers relate 
to financial activities that are specified in
 the Bank Holding Company Act or 
determined by the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secr
etary of the Treasury, to be fina
ncial in nature, incidental to
 an 
activity that is financial in nature, or 
complementary to a financial activity, provide
d that the complementary activity does n
ot pose a 
safety and soundness risk. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amends th
e Bank Holding Company Act and designates certain activities as 
financial in nature, including:   
 

lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for 
others, or safeguarding money or securities, 

underwriting insurance or annuities, 

providing financial or investment advice, 

underwriting, dealing in, or 
making markets in securities, 

merchant banking, subject 
to significant limitations, 

insurance company portfolio
 investing, subject to significant limitations, and  

any activities previously found by the Federal Rese
rve to be closely r
elated to banking.  
 
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments also authorize the Federal Reserve, in coordination with the Secretary of the 
Treasury, to determine if additional activities are financial in nat
ure or incidental to activities that are financial in natur
e.  
 
In addition, we are required by th
e Bank Holding Company Act to
 obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring, directly or
 
indirectly, ownership or control of voting shares of any bank, if
, after such acquisition, we would own or control more than 5%
 of its 
voting stock.  Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act added a new prov
ision to the Bank Holding Company Act, which requires bank 
holding companies with total cons
olidated assets equal to or greater than $50 b
illion to obtain prior approval from the Federal
 Reserve 
to acquire a nondepository company having total 
consolidated assets of $10 billion or more.
We also must comply with anti-money laundering 
and customer privacy regulations, as 
well as corporate
 governance, accounting, 
and reporting requirements.
 
The USA Patriot Act of 2001 and its related
 regulations require insured depository 
institutions, broker-dealers, and certain ot
her 
financial institutions to have po
licies, procedures, and controls to detect, preven
t, and report money laundering and terrorist
 financing. 
The statute and its regulations also provi
de for information sharing, subject to conditions, between federal law enforcement ag
encies 
and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions
, for counter-terrorism purposes.  Federal banking regulator
s are 
required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to take into account the effectiveness 
of 
the anti-money laundering activ
ities of the applicants.   
Pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, we, like all other financial institutions, are required to: 

provide notice to our customers regard
ing privacy policies and practices,  

inform our customers regarding the co
nditions under which their nonpublic pe
rsonal information may be disclosed to 
nonaffiliated third parties, and  

give our customers an option 
to prevent certain disclos
ure of such information to
 nonaffiliated third parties.  
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposed new or revised corporate 
governance, accounting, and reporting requirements on us.  In 
addition to a requirement that chief exec
utive officers and chief financial officers 
certify financial statements in writing, t
he statute 
imposed requirements affecting, among othe
r matters, the composition and activities of 
audit committees, disclosures relating t
o 
corporate insiders and insider transactions, code of ethics, and the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reportin
g. 
 
15 
 
Available Information 
 
This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 
20549.  You can obtain information on the operation of the Public 
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC
 
also maintains an Internet web site 
that contains reports, proxy statements, and 
other information about issuers, like us, who 
file 
electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is 
http://www.sec.gov
. The reports and other informa
tion filed by us with the SEC 
are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site is 
http://www.huntington.com
. Except as specifically incorporated by 
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information on th
ose web sites is not part of this report. You also should be a
ble to 
inspect reports, proxy statements, and ot
her information about us at the offices of 
the NASDAQ National Market at 33 Whitehall 
Street, New York, New York.
Item 1A: Risk Factors 
 
Risk Governance 
 
We use a multi-faceted approach to risk governance.  It begins with the board of directors defining our risk appetite in aggreg
ate 
as moderate-to-low.  This does not preclude engagement in se
lect higher risk activities.  Rather, the definition is intended to
 represent 
an average of where we want our overall risk to be managed.   
 
Two board committees oversee implementation of this desired 
risk profile: The Audit Committee and the Risk Oversight 
Committee.   
 

The Audit Committee is principally
 involved with overseeing the integrity of 
financial statements, providing oversight of 
the internal audit department, and selectin
g our external auditors. 
 Our chief auditor reports directly to the Audit 
Committee Chair.   

The Risk Oversight Committee supervises our risk manage
ment processes which primarily cover credit, market, 
liquidity, operational, compliance, legal, 
strategic, and reputational risks.  It also approves the charters of executive risk 
management committees, sets risk limits on 
certain risk measures (e.g., economic va
lue of equity), receives results of the 
risk self-assessment process, and routinely engages manageme
nt in review of key risks.  Our credit review executive 
reports directly to the Risk
 Oversight Committee.   
 
Both committees are comprised of independent
 directors and routinely hold executive se
ssions with our key 
officers engaged in 
accounting and risk management.   
 
On a periodic basis, the two committees meet in joint session 
to cover matters relevant to both such as the construct and 
appropriateness of the ACL, which is reviewed quarterly.   
 
We maintain a philosophy that each colleague is responsible for risk.  This is manifested by the design of a risk management 
organization that places emphasis on risk-ownership by risk-takers.  We believe that by placing ownership of risk within its re
lated 
business segment, attention to, and accountability for, risk is heightened.   
 
Further, through its Compensation Committee, the board of directors 
seeks to ensure its system of rewards is risk-sensitive and
 
aligns the interests of management, creditors, and shareholders
.  We utilize a variety of compensation-related tools to induce 
appropriate behavior, including common stock ownership thresholds
 for the chief executive officer and certain members of senior
 
management, a requirement to hold until retirement a portion of net shares received upon exercise of stock options or release o
f 
restricted stock awards (50% for executive officers and 25% for 
other award recipients), equity 
deferrals, clawback provisions,
 and the 
right to terminate compensa
tion plans at any time.   
 
Management has introduced a number of step
s to help ensure an aggregate moderate-to-l
ow risk appetite is maintained.  Foremost 
is a quarterly, self-assessment process in which each business segm
ent produces an analysis of its 
risks and the strength of it
s risk 
controls.  The segment analyses are combined with assessments by
 our risk management organization of major risk sectors (e.g., 
credit, market, operational, reputational, compliance, etc.) to produce an overall enterprise risk assessment.  Outcomes of the
 process 
include a determination of the quality of the 
overall control process, th
e direction of risk, and our position compared to the 
defined risk 
appetite. 
 
Management also utilizes a wide series of metrics (key risk indi
cators) to monitor risk positi
ons throughout the 
Company.  In 
general, a range for each metric is established which allows the co
mpany, in aggregate, to maintain
 its moderate-to-low risk pr
ofile.  
Deviations from the range will 
indicate if the risk being measured is movi
ng, which may then necessitate corrective action.   
 
16 
 
We also have four other executive level committees to manage 
risk: ALCO, Credit Policy and Strategy, Risk Management, and 
Capital Management.  Each committee focuses on specific categories of risk and is supported by a series of subcommittees that a
re 
tactical in nature.  We believe this struct
ure helps ensure appropriate elevation of issues and overall communication of strate
gies.   
 
Huntington utilizes three levels of defens
e with regard to risk management: 
(1) business segments, (2) corporate risk 
management, and (3) internal audit and credit review.  To induc
e greater ownership of risk within its business segments, segmen
t risk 
officers have been embedded to identify and monitor risk, elevate and remediate issues, establish controls, perform self-testin
g, and 
oversee the quarterly self-assessment process.  Segment risk officers report directly to the related segment manager with a dot
ted line 
to the Chief Risk Officer.  Corporate Risk Management estab
lishes policies, sets operating limits, reviews new or modified 
products/processes, ensures consistency a
nd quality assurance within the segments, an
d produces the enterprise risk assessment.
  The 
Chief Risk Officer has significant input into
 the design and outcome of 
incentive compensation plans as
 they apply to risk.  In
ternal 
Audit and Credit Review provide additi
onal assurance that risk-related functi
ons are operating as intended.   
 
Huntington believes it has provided a sound risk governance foundation to support the Bank.  Our process will be subject to 
continuous improvement and enhancemen
t.  Our objective is to have strong
 risk management 
practices and capabilities. 
 
Risk Overview 
 
We, like other financial companies, are subject to a number of risk
s that may adversely affect our financial condition or resul
ts of 
operations, many of which are outside of our 
direct control, though efforts are made 
to manage those risks while optimizing ret
urns. 
Among the risks assumed are: (1) credit risk, which is the risk of 
loss due to loan and lease cu
stomers or other counterparties
 not being 
able to meet their financial obligations under agreed upon terms, (2
) market risk, which is the risk
 of loss due to changes in 
the market 
value of assets and liabilities due to change
s in market interest rates, foreign exchange
 rates, equity prices, and credit spre
ads, (3) 
liquidity risk, which is (a) the risk of 
loss due to the possibility that funds may not
 be available to satisfy current or futu
re 
commitments based on external macro market issues, investor and 
customer perception of financial strength, and events unrelated
 to 
us such as war, terrorism, or financial institution market spec
ific issues, and (b) the risk of 
loss based on our ability to sa
tisfy current 
or future funding commitments due to the mi
x and maturity structure of our balance sheet, amount of on-hand cash and unencumber
ed 
securities and the availability of 
contingent sources of funding, 
(4) operational and legal risk, which is the risk of loss due
 to human 
error, inadequate or failed internal systems 
and controls, violations of, or noncomp
liance with, laws, rules, regulations, pres
cribed 
practices, or ethical standards, and external influences such as 
market conditions, fraudulent activ
ities, disasters, and secur
ity risks, 
and (5) compliance risk, which exposes us to
 money penalties, enforcement actions or ot
her sanctions as a result of nonconforma
nce 
with laws, rules, and regulations that ap
ply to the financial services industry. 
 
We also expend considerable effort to contain risk wh
ich emanates from execution of our business strategies and work 
relentlessly to protect the Company™s reputation.  Strategic risk 
and reputational risk do not eas
ily lend themselves to tradit
ional 
methods of measurement.  Rather, we closely monitor them through processes such as new product / initiative reviews, frequent 
financial performance reviews, employee and client surveys, mon
itoring market inte
lligence, periodic discussions between 
management and our board, and other such efforts. 
 
In addition to the other information included or
 incorporated by reference into this re
port, readers should carefully consider 
that 
the following important factors, among others
, could negatively impact our business, future results of operations, and future c
ash 
flows materially.  
 
Credit Risks: 
 
1. Our ACL level may prove to be inappropriate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures which could 
materially adversely affect our net income and capital. 
 
Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers.  Our ACL of $809.7 million at December 31, 2012, represented 
Management™s estimate of probable losses inherent in our loan an
d lease portfolio as well as our unfunded loan commitments and 
letters of credit.  We periodically review our ACL for appropriateness.  In doing so, we consider economic conditions and trend
s, 
collateral values, and credit quality indicators, 
such as past charge-off experience, lev
els of past due loans, and NPAs.  Ther
e is no 
certainty that our ACL will be appropriate over time to cover lo
sses in the portfolio because
 of unanticipated adverse changes 
in the 
economy, market conditions, or events adve
rsely affecting specific customers, industr
ies, or markets.  If the credit quality of
 our 
customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market,
 industry, or group of custom
ers changes materially, or if 
the ACL is 
not appropriate, our net income and capital could be materially 
adversely affected which, in turn, could have a material advers
e effect 
on our financial condition an
d results of operations. 
 
In addition, bank regulators periodically review
 our ACL and may require us to increase 
our provision for lo
an and lease losses
 or 
loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL 
or loan charge-offs as required by thes
e regulatory authorities could have a material
 
adverse effect on our financial co
ndition and results of operations.  
17 
 
 
2. Weakness in economic conditions could 
materially adversely affect our business. 
 
Our performance could be negatively affected 
to the extent there is deterioration in 
business and economic conditions which hav
e 
direct or indirect material adverse impacts on us, our customers, an
d our counterparties.  These co
nditions could result in one
 or more 
of the following: 
 

A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; 

A decrease in customer savings generally and in the demand
 for savings and investment products offered by us; and 

An increase in the number of customers and counterparties wh
o become delinquent, file for 
protection under bankruptcy 
laws, or default on their loans or other obligations to us.  
 
An increase in the number of delinquencies, ba
nkruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of NPAs, NCOs, provision f
or 
credit losses, and valuation adjustments on 
loans held for sale. The markets we serve 
are dependent on in
dustrial and manufactu
ring 
businesses and thus are particularly vu
lnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions affecting these sectors.  
 
 
3. Uncertain economic conditions in our markets could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-offs, and increased 
losses on the sale of foreclosed real estate in future periods. 
 
Like all financial institutions, we are subj
ect to the effects of any econo
mic downturn.  While beginn
ing to improve slightly, 
there 
has been a slowdown in the housing market across our geographic fo
otprint over the past several y
ears, reflecting declining pri
ces and 
excess inventories of houses to be sold.  These developments ha
ve had, and further declines may continue to have, a negative ef
fect on 
our financial conditions and re
sults of operations.  At December 31, 2012, we had: 
 

$8.3 billion of home equity loans and lines, 
representing 20% of total loans and leases. 

$5.0 billion in residential real 
estate loans, representing 12% of total loans and leases.  

$4.3 billion of Federal Agency mortgage-backed securities, $0.1 billion of private label CMOs, and less than $0.1 billion of 
Alt-A mortgage-backed securities that could be ne
gatively affected by a decline in home values. 

$0.4 billion of bank owned life insu
rance investments primarily in mortgage-backed securities.  
 
Because of the decline in home values, some of our borrowers have mortgages that exceed the value of their homes.  The decline 
in home values, coupled w
ith the weakened econo
my, has increased short sales and foreclosures.  The reduced levels of home sale
s 
have had a materially adverse effect on the prices achieved on 
the sale of foreclosed properties.  Further decline in home valu
es may 
escalate these problems resulting in higher 
delinquencies, greater charge-offs, and increa
sed losses on the sale of foreclosed 
real estate 
in future periods. 
 
Market Risks: 
 
1. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income, reduce transactional income, and negatively impact 
the value of our loans, securities, and other assets.  This could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial 
condition, results of operations, and capital. 
 
Our results of operations depend substantially on net interes
t income, which is the difference between interest earned on 
interest earning assets (such as investment
s and loans) and interest paid on inter
est bearing liabilities (such as deposits and
 
borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many fact
ors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and 
international economic and political conditions. Conditions such as inflation, deflation, recession, unemployment, money supply
, and 
other factors beyond our control may also affect interest rates.   
 
At December 31, 2012, $4.1 billion, or 18%, of our commercial loan portfolio, and $2.5 billion, or 50%, of our residential 
mortgage portfolio, as measured by the ag
gregate outstanding principal balances, were
 fixed-rate loans and the remainder was 
adjustable-rate loans.  
If our interest earning assets mature or reprice 
faster than interest bearing liabilities in a declinin
g interest rate 
environment, net interest income could be materially adversely impa
cted.  Likewise, if interest bearing liabilities mature or r
eprice 
more quickly than interest earning assets in
 a rising interest rate environment, net in
terest income could be adversely impacte
d. 
 
 
 
18 
 
Changes in interest rates can affect the value of loans, secu
rities, assets under management, and other assets, including 
mortgage and nonmortgage servicing rights.  
An increase in interest rates that adve
rsely affects the ability of borrowers to pa
y the 
principal or interest on loans and leases may lead to an increase in NPAs and a reduction of income recognized, which could hav
e a 
material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any 
accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income.  However, we continue to incur interest expense as a c
ost of 
funding NALs without any corresponding inter
est income.  In addition, tr
ansactional income, including trust income, brokerage 
income, and gain on sales of loans can vary significantly from 
period-to-period based on a number of factors, including the int
erest 
rate environment. 
 
Rising interest rates reduce the value of our fixed-rate debt 
securities and cash flow hedgi
ng derivatives portfolio.  Any 
unrealized loss from these portfolios impacts OCI, shareholders™ eq
uity, and the Tangible Common 
Equity ratio.  Any realized lo
ss 
from these portfolios im
pacts regulatory capital ratios,
 notably Tier I and Total 
risk-based capital ratios.
  In a rising inter
est rate 
environment, pension and other post-retirement obligations somewh
at mitigate negative OCI impacts
 from securities and financial
 
instruments. 
 
Certain investment securities, notably mort
gage-backed securities, are very sensitive to rising and falling rates.  Generally, 
when rates rise, the duration of mortgage-b
acked securities increases as prepayments of
 principal and interest decrease.  Conve
rsely, 
when rates fall, the duration of mortgage
-backed securities decreases as prepayments
 increase.  In either case, interest rates 
have a 
significant impact on the value of mortgage-backed securities investments.  
Liquidity Risks: 
 
1. If we lose access to ca
pital markets, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors, 
creditors, and borrowers, or have the operating cash needed to fund corporate expansion and other corporate activities. 
 
Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely ba
sis at a reasonable cost.  The Bank
 uses its liquidity to extend
 
credit and to repay liabilities as th
ey become due or as demanded by customers. 
 The Board of Directors establishes liquidity p
olicies 
and limits and Management establishes 
operating guidelines for liquidity.   
 
Wholesale funding sources include securitization,
 federal funds purchased, securities so
ld under repurchase agreements, non-
core deposits, and medium- and long-term debt
, which includes a domestic bank note prog
ram.  The Bank is also a member of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati, which provides members access to funding through advances collateralized with mortgage-
related assets.  We maintain a portfolio of
 highly-rated, marketable securities that is
 available as a source of liquidity.  Th
e Bank also 
can borrow from the Federal Reserve™s discount window. 
 
Capital markets disruptions can directly impact the liquidity of the Bank and Corporation.  The inability to access capital 
markets funding sources as needed could adversely impact ou
r financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and level 
of 
regulatory-qualifying capital.  We may, from ti
me-to-time, consider using our existin
g liquidity position 
to opportunistically 
retire 
outstanding securities in privately nego
tiated or open market transactions.   
 
2. Due to the losses that the Bank incurred in 2008 and 2009, at December 31, 2012, the Bank and its subsidiaries could 
not declare and pay dividends to the holding company, any subsidi
ary of the holding company outside the Bank's consolidated 
group, or any security holder outside the Bank™s consolidated 
group, without regulatory approval
.  Also, the Bank may not 
pay a dividend in an amount greater than its undivided profits.  
Dividends from the Bank to the parent company are the pr
imary source of funds for the payment of dividends to our 
shareholders. Under applicable st
atutes and regulations, a national bank may not 
declare and pay dividends in any year greater 
than its 
undivided profits or in excess of an amount equal to the sum of the 
total of the net income of the 
bank for that year and the r
etained net 
income of the bank for the preceding two years, minus the sum of any transfers required by the OCC and any transfers required t
o be 
made to a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock, unless 
the OCC approves the declaration and payment of dividends in e
xcess 
of such amount.  The Bank™s undivided profits were in a de
ficit position throughout 2012.  Since 
the first quarter of 2008, the
 Bank 
has requested and received OCC approval each quarter to pay periodic dividends to shareholders outside the Bank™s consolidated 
group on the preferred and common stock of its REIT and capital fi
nancing subsidiaries to the exte
nt necessary to maintain thei
r REIT 
status.  A wholly-owned nonbank subsidiary of the parent company 
owns a portion of the preferred shares of the REIT and capital
 
financing subsidiaries.  Outside of the RE
IT and capital financing subsidiary dividends
, we do not anticipate that the Bank wil
l declare 
dividends during 2013, due to the deficit position of its undivided profits.   
  
19 
 
 
Operational and
 Legal Risks: 
1. The resolution of significant pending litigation, if unf
avorable, could have a material ad
verse effect on our results of 
operations for a particular period.
We face legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and 
regulatory proceedings again
st financial institutions remain
 high. Substantial legal liability again
st us could have material a
dverse 
financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, wh
ich in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.  It 
is possible 
that the ultimate resolution of 
these matters, if unfavorable, may be material 
to the results of operations for a particular re
porting 
period.   
 
Note 22 of the Notes to Conso
lidated Financial Statements updates the status of
 litigation concerning Cyberco Holdings, Inc.  
Although the bank maintains litigation reserve
s related to this case, the ultimate resolu
tion of the matter, if unfavorable, ma
y be 
material to our results of operations 
for a particular reporting period.   
2. We face significant operational risks which could lead to expensive litigation and loss of confidence by our customers, 
regulators, and capital markets. 
 
We are exposed to many types of operational 
risks, including cyber-attack risk, the ri
sk of fraud or theft by employees or 
outsiders, unauthorized transactions by empl
oyees or outsiders, or operational errors by
 employees, including 
clerical or recor
d-
keeping errors or those resulting 
from faulty or disabled comput
er or telecommunications systems.  These operational risks coul
d lead 
to expensive litigation and loss of confidence by ou
r customers, regulators, and the capital markets. 
 
Moreover, negative public opinion can result 
from our actual or alleged conduct in an
y number of activities, including lending 
practices, corporate governance,
 and acquisitions and from actions taken by gove
rnment regulators and community organizations i
n 
response to those activities.  Negative public 
opinion can adversely affect our ability
 to attract and retain customers and can
 also 
expose us to litigation and regulatory action.   
 
Relative to acquisitions, we canno
t predict if, or when, we will be able to iden
tify and attract acquisitio
n candidates or make
 
acquisitions on favorable terms.  We incur risks and challenges 
associated with the integration of
 acquired institutions in a t
imely and 
efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving 
anticipated operating efficiencies. 
 
Huntington is under continuous threat of 
loss due to cyber-attacks especially as we c
ontinue to expand customer capabilities to
 
utilize internet and other remote channels to transact business.  The most significant cyberŒattack risks that we face are e-fr
aud, denial 
of service, and loss of sensitive customer data.  Loss from e-fr
aud occurs when cybercriminal
s breach and extract funds directl
y from 
customer or our accounts.  Loss can occur as a result of negative customer experience in the event of a successful denial of se
rvice 
attack that disrupts availability of our on-line banking services.  The attempts to breach sensitive customer data, such as acc
ount 
numbers and social security numbers, could present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us if successful.
  Our risk 
and exposure to these matters remains height
ened because of the evolving nature and co
mplexity of these threats from cybercrimi
nals 
and hackers, our plans to continue to pr
ovide internet banking and mob
ile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional
 
remote connectivity solutions 
to serve our customers. 
 
3. Failure to maintain effective interna
l controls over financial 
reporting in the future could 
impair our ability to 
accurately and timely report our financial results or prevent fraud, resulting in loss of investor confidence and adversely 
affecting our business and stock price. 
Effective internal controls over financia
l reporting are necessary to provide reliable
 financial reports and prevent fraud. As 
a 
financial holding company, we are subject to regulation that focus
es on effective internal controls and procedures.  Such contr
ols and 
procedures are modified, supplemented, and 
changed from time-to-time as necessitated by our growth and in reaction to external 
events and developments.  Any failure to maintain, in the futu
re, an effective internal control 
environment could impact our ab
ility to 
report our financial results on an accurate an
d timely basis, which could result in regu
latory actions, loss 
of investor confid
ence, and 
adversely impact our business and stock price. 
 
20 
 
Compliance Risks: 
 
1. Bank regulators and other regulations, including proposed Basel III capital standards and capital plan reviews, may 
require higher capital levels, impacting our 
ability to pay common stock dividends 
or repurchase our common stock.  
In June 2012, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC (collectively, the Agencies) is
sued three Notices of Propos
ed Rulemaking (NPRs) that 
would revise and replace the Agencies™ current capital rules to align with the BASEL III capital standards and meet certain 
requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Certain requirements
 of the proposed NPRs would establish more restrictive capital definit
ions, 
higher risk-weightings for certain asset classes, capital buffers, an
d higher minimum capital ratios.  The proposed NPRs were i
n a 
comment period through October 22, 2012, and are subject to furthe
r modification by the Agencies, as the release of the final r
ules has 
been deferred indefinitely.  See the Capital section within Manage
ment™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Res
ults 
of Operations. 
 
The Federal Reserve has issued guidelines for evaluating proposals 
by certain bank holding compan
ies, including Huntington, to 
undertake capital actions, such as increasing
 dividend payments or repurchasing or rede
eming stock.  This process is known as t
he 
Federal Reserve™s Capital Plan Review.  Pu
rsuant to those Federal Reserve guidelines
, Huntington submitted its initial proposed
 
capital plan to the Federal Rese
rve in January 2012.  
On March 14, 2012, we we
re notified by the Federal Reserve that it had no
t 
objected to our proposed capital actions included in our capital plan. 
 These actions included the 
potential repurchase of up t
o $182 
million of common stock and a continuation 
of our current common dividend through the 
first quarter of 2013.  On January 7, 201
3, 
Huntington submitted its 2013 Capital P
lan to the Federal Reserv
e including proposed capital actions through the first quarter 
of 2014.   
 
The Federal Reserve and OCC are expected to undertake these capital plan reviews on a regular basis in the future. There can be
 
no assurance that the Federal Reserve or 
OCC will respond favorably to
 our capital plan as part of their future capital plan re
views, 
and the Federal Reserve, OCC, or other re
gulatory capital requirements ma
y limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capit
al, 
including common stock dividends and stock repurchases. Although 
not currently anticipated, our re
gulators may require us to ra
ise 
additional capital in the future. I
ssuing additional common stock may 
dilute existing stockholders.   
 
The Federal Reserve has issued a proposed 
rule that, in addition to the broader Ba
sel III capital reforms, will implement the 
application of the Federal Reserve™s capital p
lans rule, including the re
quirement to maintain cap
ital above 5% for the Tier 1 
Common 
risk-based capital ratio under both 
expected and stressed conditions. 
 
2. If our regulators deem it appropriate, they can take regulatory actions that could result in a material adverse impact 
on our ability to compete for new business, constrain our ability to fund our liquidity needs or pay dividends, and increase th
e
cost of our services. 
We are subject to the supervision and regula
tion of various state and Federal regulat
ors, including the OCC, Federal Reserve, 
FDIC, SEC, CFPB, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and va
rious state regulatory agencies.  As such, we are subject to a 
wide 
variety of laws and regulations, many of which are discussed in th
e Regulatory Matters section.  As part of their supervisory p
rocess, 
which includes periodic examinations and co
ntinuous monitoring, the regulators have th
e authority to impose restrictions or con
ditions 
on our activities and the manner in which we manage the organizatio
n.  Such actions could negatively impact us in a variety of 
ways, 
including monetary fines, impacting our ability to pay dividends, 
precluding mergers or acquis
itions, limiting our ability to o
ffer 
certain products or services, or imposing additional capital requirements.   
 
3. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the 
future that impacts the fina
ncial industry may materially 
adversely affect us by increasing our costs, adding complexity in doing business,  impeding the efficiency of our internal 
business processes, negatively impacting the recoverability of certain of our recorded assets, requiring us to increase our 
regulatory capital, limiting our ability
 to pursue business opportunities, and otherwise 
result in a material adverse impact on
our financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price.  
 
The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the 
financial crisis.  In addition to the pre
viously enacted governmental assistance programs designed to stabilize and stimulate t
he U.S. 
economy, recent market conditions have led to numerous programs and proposals to reform the financial regulatory system and 
prevent future crises, including the Dodd-Frank Act.  
 
The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of th
e financial services industry within the United States, establishes
 
the new federal CFPB, and requires the bureau and other federal 
agencies to implement many 
new and significant rules and 
regulations.  At this time, it is difficult 
to predict the extent to wh
ich the Dodd-Frank Act, or th
e resulting rules and regul
ations in their 
entirety, will impact our business.  Complian
ce with these new laws and regulations will 
result in additional costs, which coul
d be 
significant, and may have a material and adve
rse effect on our results of operations. 
 
21 
 
With the development of the CFPB, our consumer products an
d services are subject to increas
ing regulatory oversight and 
scrutiny with respect to compliance under consumer laws and regulations.  We may face a greater number or wider scope of 
investigations, enforcement actions and litigati
on in the future related to consumer 
practices, thereby increasing costs associ
ated with 
responding to or defending such actions. 
 In addition, increased regulatory inquiries
 and investigations, as well as any additi
onal 
legislative or regulatory developments affecting our consumer bu
sinesses, and any required changes to our business operations 
resulting from these developments, could result in significan
t loss of revenue, limit the products or services we offer, requir
e us to 
increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional compliance costs on us, cause harm to our 
reputation or otherwise adversely affect our co
nsumer businesses.  In addition, if we do
 not appropriately co
mply with current 
or 
future legislation and regulations that apply to
 our consumer operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or judgments, o
r 
material regulatory restrictions on our bu
sinesses, which could adversely affect operations and, in turn, financial results.   
 
Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments 
 
None.
 
 
Item 2: Properties 
 
Our headquarters, as well as the Bank™s, are located in the Hun
tington Center, a thirty-seven-s
tory office building located in 
Columbus, Ohio. Of the build
ing™s total office space available, we lease approximately 33%. The lease term expires in 2030, wit
h six 
five-year renewal options for up to 30 year
s but with no purchase option. The Bank ha
s an indirect minority equity interest of 
18.4% 
in the building.  
 
Our other major properties consist of the following:
 
 
Description
Location 
Own
Lease 
13 story office building, located adjacent to the Huntington Center
Columbus, Ohio 

 
 
 
12 story office building, located adjacent to the Huntington Center
Columbus, Ohio 

 
 
 
3 story office building  - the Crosswoods building
Columbus, Ohio 
 

 
 
A portion of 200 Public Square Building
Cleveland, Ohio 
 

 
 
12 story office building
Youngstown, Ohio 

 
 
 
10 story office building
Warren, Ohio 
 

 
 
10 story office building 
Toledo, Ohio 

 
 
 
A portion of the Grant Building
Pittsburgh, PA 
 

 
 
18 story office building
Charleston, West Virginia 
 

 
 
3 story office building
Holland, Michigan 
 

 
 
2 building office complex 
Troy, Michigan 
 

 
Data processing and operations center (Easton)
Columbus, Ohio 

 
 
Data processing and operations center (Northland)
Columbus, Ohio 
 

 
Data processing and operations center (Parma) 
Cleveland, Ohio 
 

 
8 story office building
Indianapolis, Indiana 

 
 
 
Item 3: Legal Proceedings 
 
Information required by this item is set forth in Note 22 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financ
ial Statements and incorporated 
into this Item by reference.
 
 
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not applicable. 
 
22 
 
PART II 
I
tem 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of 
Equity Securities
 
The common stock of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated is
 traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol 
ﬁHBANﬂ. The stock is listed as ﬁHuntgBcshrﬂ or ﬁHuntBancﬂ in
 most newspapers. As of January 31, 2013, we had 35,319 
shareholders of record. 
 
Information regarding the high and low sa
le prices of our common stock and cash di
vidends declared on such shares, as 
required by this item, is set forth in Table 50 entitled Select
ed Quarterly Income Statement Data and incorporated into this It
em by 
reference.  Information regarding restrictions
 on dividends, as required by this Item
, is set forth in Item 1 Business-Regulato
ry Matters 
and in Note 23 of the Notes to
 Consolidated Financial Statements and incorpo
rated into this Item by reference. 
 
The following graph shows the changes, over the five-year period, 
in the value of $100 invested 
in (i) shares of Huntington™s 
Common Stock; (ii) the Standard & Poor™s 
500 Stock Index (the ﬁS&P 500 Indexﬂ) an
d (iii) Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Bank Index 
(the ﬁKBW Bank Indexﬂ), for the period December 31, 2007, 
through December 31, 2012. The KBW Bank Index is a market 
capitalization-weighted bank stock index publis
hed by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. The index is composed of the largest banking 
companies and includes all money center banks and regional banks, including Huntington.  An investment of $100 on December 31, 
2007, and the reinvestment of all dividend
s are assumed.  The plotted po
ints represent the closing 
price on the last trading da
y of the 
fiscal year indicated.
 
 
 
 
  
 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 12/11 12/12
HBAN
$100$56$27$51$42$50
S&P 500
$100$63$80$92$94$109
KBW Bank Index
$100$52$52$64$49$65
 $-
 $20
 $40
 $60
 $80
 $100
 $120
HBAN
S&P 500
KBW Bank Index
23 
 
The following table provid
es information regarding Huntingt
on™s purchases of 
its Common Stock during the three-month 
period ended December 31, 2012: 
 
Period
 
Total Number 
of Shares 
Purchased
Average 
Price Paid 
Per Share
Total Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of 
Publicly Announced 
Plans or Programs (1) 
Maximum Number of Shares (or 
Approximate Dollar Va
lue) that 
Ma
y
 Yet Be Purchased Under the 
Plans or Programs (1) 
October 1, 2012 to October 31, 2012
 
8,405,979 
$6.36
8,405,979 
$63,441,219
N
ovember 1, 2012 to November 30, 2012 
 
3,779,130 
6.33 
12,185,109 
39,519,326 
December 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 
 
975,054 
6.12 
13,160,163 
33,551,995 
Total 
 
13,160,163 
$6.33
13,160,163 
$33,551,995
(1) Information is as of the end of the period. 
 
On March 14, 2012, Huntington Bancshares
 Incorporated announced that the Federal 
Reserve did not object to Huntington's 
proposed capital actions included in Huntingt
on's capital plan submitted to the Federal 
Reserve in January 
2012. These actions 
included the potential repurchase of up to $182 million of co
mmon stock and a continuation of 
Huntington's current common divid
end 
through the first quar
ter of 2013. Huntington's Board of 
Directors authorized a share repurcha
se program consistent with Huntin
gton™s 
capital plan.  During the 2012 fourth quart
er, Huntington repurchased a total of 13.2 million shares at a weighted average shar
e price 
of $6.33. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Huntington purchased 23.3 million common shares at a weighted average price of 
$6.36 per share.  Huntington did not repurchase any 
common shares for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
24 
 
Item 6: Selected Financial Data 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 - Selected Financial Data
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
 
Interest income 
$
 
 1,930,263 
$ 
 1,970,226 
 
$ 
 2,145,392 
$ 
 2,238,142 
$ 
 2,798,322 
 
 
Interest expense 
 
 219,739 
 
 341,056 
 
 
 526,587 
 
 813,855 
 
 1,266,631 
 
 
N
et interest income 
 
 1,710,524 
 
 1,629,170 
 
 
 1,618,805 
 
 1,424,287 
 
 1,531,691 
 
 
Provision for credit losses 
 
 147,388 
 
 174,059 
 
 
 634,547 
 
 2,074,671 
 
 1,057,463 
 
N
et interest income after provision for credit losses 
 1,563,136 
 1,455,111 
 
 
 984,258 
 
 (650,384)
 
 474,228 
 
N
oninterest income 
 1,097,857 
 980,623 
 
 
 1,041,858 
 
 1,005,644 
 
 707,138 
 
N
oninterest expense: 
 
 
Goodwill impairment
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 2,606,944 
 
 ---
 
 
Other noninterest expense 
 
 1,835,876 
 
 1,728,500 
 
 
 1,673,805 
 
 1,426,499 
 
 1,477,374 
 
Total noninterest expense 
 1,835,876 
 1,728,500 
 
 
 1,673,805 
 
 4,033,443 
 
 1,477,374 
 
Income (loss) before income taxes 
 
 825,117 
 
 707,234 
 
 
 352,311 
 
 (3,678,183)
 
 (296,008)
 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
 
 184,095 
 
 164,621 
 
 
 39,964 
 
 (584,004)
 
 (182,202)
 
N
et income (loss) 
$
 641,022 
$
 542,613 
 
$ 
 312,347 
$ 
 (3,094,179)
$ 
 (113,806)
 
Dividends on preferred shares 
 
 31,989 
 
 30,813 
 
 
 172,032 
 
 174,756 
 
 46,400 
 
N
et income (loss) applicable to common shares 
$
 609,033 
$
 511,800 
 
$ 
 140,315 
$ 
 (3,268,935)
$ 
 (160,206)
 
N
et income (loss) per common share - basic
 
$
 
 0.71 
$ 
 0.59 
 
$ 
 0.19 
$ 
 (6.14)
$ 
 (0.44)
 
N
et income (loss) per common share - diluted 
 
 0.71 
 
 0.59 
 
 
 0.19 
 
 (6.14)
 
 (0.44)
 
Cash dividends declared per common share 
 
 0.1600 
 
 0.1000 
 
 
 0.0400 
 
 0.0400 
 
 0.6625 
 
 
 
Balance sheet highlights
 
Total assets (period end)
$
 
 56,153,185 
$ 
 54,450,652 
 
$ 
 53,819,642 
$ 
 51,554,665 
$ 
 54,352,859 
 
Total long-term debt (period end)
(2)
 
 
 1,364,834 
 
 3,097,857 
 
 
 3,813,827 
 
 3,802,670 
 
 6,870,705 
 
Total shareholders' equity (period end) 
 
 5,790,211 
 
 5,418,100 
 
 
 4,980,542 
 
 5,336,002 
 
 7,228,906 
 
Average long-term debt
(2)
 
 
 2,273,140 
 
 3,275,913 
 
 
 3,953,177 
 
 5,558,001 
 
 7,374,681 
 
Average shareholders' equity 
 
 5,671,455 
 
 5,237,541 
 
 
 5,482,502 
 
 5,787,401 
 
 6,395,690 
 
Average total assets 
 
 55,673,599 
 
 53,750,054 
 
 
 52,574,231 
 
 52,440,268 
 
 54,921,419 
 
 
 
Key ratios and statistics
 
 
 
 
Margin analysis - as a % of average earnings assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest income
(3) 
 
 3.85 
%
 4.09 
 
%
 4.55 
% 
 4.88 
%
 5.90 
%
 
Interest expense 
 
 0.44 
 
 0.71 
 
 
 1.11 
 
 1.77 
 
 2.65 
 
N
et interest margin
(3)
 
 
 3.41 
%
 3.38 
 
%
 3.44 
% 
 3.11 
%
 3.25 
%
 
 
 
Return on average total assets
 
 
 1.15 
%
 1.01 
%
 0.59 
% 
 (5.90)
%
 (0.21)
%
Return on average common shareholders' equity 
 
 11.5 
 10.5 
 3.7 
 
 (80.8)
 
 (2.8)
 
Return on average tangible common shareholders' 
equity
(4), (8)
 
 
 13.5 
 12.7 
 
 
 5.6 
 
 (22.4)
 
 (4.4)
 
Efficiency ratio
(5)
 
 
 63.4 
 63.7 
 
 
 60.4 
 
 55.4 
 
 57.0 
 
Dividend payout ratio 
 
 22.5 
 16.9 
 21.1 
 
N.R.
 
N.R.
 
Average shareholders' equity to average assets 
 
 10.19 
 9.74 
 
 
 10.43 
 
 11.04 
 
 11.65 
 
Effective tax rate (benefit) 
 
 22.3 
 23.3 
 
 
 11.3 
 
 (15.9)
 
 (61.6)
 
Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio (period end)
(8)
 
 
 10.48 
 10.00 
 9.29 
 
 6.76 
 
 5.05 
 
Tangible common equity to tangible assets (period 
end) 
(6), (8)
 
 
 8.76 
 
 8.30 
 
 
 7.56 
 
 5.92 
 
 4.04 
 
Tangible equity to tangible assets (period end)
(7), (8)
 
 
 9.46 
 
 9.02 
 
 
 8.24 
 
 9.24 
 
 7.72 
 
Tier 1 leverage ratio (period end) 
 
 10.36 
 
 10.28 
 
 
 9.41 
 
 10.09 
 
 9.82 
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio (period end) 
 
 12.02 
 
 12.11 
 
 
 11.55 
 
 12.15 
 
 10.72 
 
Total risk-based capital ratio (period end) 
 
 14.50 
 
 14.77 
 
 
 14.46 
 
 14.55 
 
 13.91 
 
 
 
 
 
Other data
 
 
 
 
Full-time equivalent employees (period end)
 
 
 11,806 
 
 11,245 
 
 
 11,341 
 
 10,272 
 
 10,951 
 
Domestic banking offices (period end) 
 
 705 
 
 668 
 
 
 620 
 
 611 
 
 613 
 
 
 
N
.R. - Not relevant, as denomin
ator of calculation is a loss in pr
ior period compared with 
income in current period.
 
 
 
25 
 
(1)  
Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of f
actors.  Refer to the Significa
nt Items for additional discussio
n 
regarding these key factors. 
(2)
  Includes FHLB advances, subordinated notes, and other long-term debt.  At December 31, 2012, FHLB advances excludes $1.0 
billion of advances that are short-term in nature. 
(3)
  On an FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(4)
  Net income (loss) less expense excludi
ng amortization of intangibles for the period
 divided by average tangible shareholders'
 
equity. Average tangible shareholders' equity equals average total shareholders' equity less average intangible assets and good
will.  
Expense for amortization of intangibles an
d average intangible assets are net of 
deferred tax liability, and calculated assumin
g a 
35% tax rate. 
(5)
  Noninterest expense less amortization of 
intangibles divided by the sum of FTE net 
interest income and noninterest income 
excluding securities gains. 
(6)
  Tangible common equity (total common equity less goodwill and 
other intangible assets) divided 
by tangible assets (total asse
ts 
less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible a
ssets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax
 rate. 
(7)
  Tangible equity (total equity less goodwill and other intangi
ble assets) divided by tangible 
assets (total assets less goodwi
ll and 
other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net 
of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(8)
  Tier 1 common equity, tangible equity
, tangible common equity, and tangible asse
ts are non-GAAP financial measures.  
Additionally, any ratios utilizing th
ese financial measures are also non-GAAP.  Thes
e financial measures ha
ve been included as 
they are considered to be critical metrics with which to an
alyze and evaluate financial cond
ition and capital strength.  Other 
companies may calculate these financial measures differently. 
 
Item 7:  Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
INTRODUCTION
 
We are a multi-state diversified regional bank holding compan
y organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in 
Columbus, Ohio.  Through the Bank, we have 147 years of servicin
g the financial needs of our cust
omers.  Through our subsidiari
es, 
we provide full-service commercial and co
nsumer banking services, mortgage banking 
services, automobile financing, equipment 
leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage servi
ces, insurance service programs, and other financial products an
d 
services.  Our over 690 branches are located in Ohio, Michigan
, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. Selected 
financial services and other activities are also conducted in va
rious other states.  International banking services are availab
le through 
the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio
 and a limited purpose office located in the Ca
yman Islands and an
other limited purpos
e 
office located in Hong Kong.  
Our foreign banking activities, in total or with an
y individual country, are not significant. 
 
The following MD&A provides information we believe necessary fo
r understanding our financial condition, changes in financial 
condition, results of operations, 
and cash flows.  The MD&A should be read in
 conjunction with the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and other informa
tion contained in this report. 
 
Our discussion is divided into key segments:   
 

Executive Overview
 Œ Provides a summary of our current financial 
performance, and business overview, including our 
thoughts on the impact of the economy, legislative and regulatory initiatives, and recent industry developments.  This section 
also provides our outlook rega
rding our 2013 expectations.  

Discussion of Results of Operations
 - Reviews financial performance from a consolidated perspective.  It also includes a 
Significant Items section that summarizes key issues helpful for 
understanding performance trends. Key consolidated average 
balance sheet and income statement trends are also discussed in this section.    

Risk Management and Capital 
- Discusses credit, market, liquidity, operational risks, and compliance including how these 
are managed, as well as performance trends. It also includes a 
discussion of liquidity policies,
 how we obtain funding, and 
related performance. In addition, there is a discussion 
of guarantees and / or commitments made for items such as standby 
letters of credit and commitments to sell loans,
 and a discussion that reviews the adeq
uacy of capital, 
including regulatory 
capital requirements. 

Business Segment Discussion
 - Provides an overview of financial performance for each of our major business segments and 
provides additional discussion of trends unde
rlying consolidated financial performance. 

Results for the Fourth Quarter 
- Provides a discussion of results for the 2012
 fourth quarter compared with the 2011 fourth 
quarter. 

Additional Disclosures 
- Provides comments on important matters including forward-looking statements, critical accounting 
policies and use of significant estimates, recent accounting pronouncements and developments, and acquisitions. 
26 
 
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
 
2012 Financial Performance Review 
 
In 2012, we reported net income of $641.0 million, or $0.71 per 
common share, an increase of $98.4 million compared with 2011 
(see Table 2)
.  The increase primarily reflected a $117.2 million, or 12
%, increase in noninterest income and an $81.4 million, or 5%, 
increase in net interest income.  This wa
s partially offset by a $107.4 million, or 6%, 
increase in noninterest expense.  Despi
te the 
challenging economic and extended low interest rate environment 
combined with impacts of government-mandated reductions in fee 
income during 2012, return 
on average total assets increased to 
1.15%, compared with 1.
01% in 2011.  Results from our strategic
 
business investments and OCR sales approach continued in 2012.  
(Also, see Significant Items Influen
cing Financial Performance 
Comparisons within th
e Discussion of Results of Operations.)
   
 
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income 
was $1.7 billion in 2012, an increase of $86.8
 million, or 5%, co
mpared with 2011.
  
Average earning assets increased
 $2.1 billion, or 4%, including 
a $1.3 billion, or 3%, increase 
in total loans and leases and a
 $0.8 
billion increase in loans held for sale.  
This reflected benefits from our strategic
 C&I initiatives focusing on the equipment 
finance, 
dealer floorplan, large corporate, and middle market segments.  This
 increase was partially offset 
by a decline in our automobi
le loans, 
reflecting the impact of our con
tinued program of securitization an
d sale of such loans.  Ad
ditionally, our CRE portfolio decli
ned, 
reflecting continued runoff of the noncore 
portfolio.  Average core depo
sits grew $3.1 billion, or 8%, reflecting our consumer 
household and commercial relationship growth.  This growth contin
ued even as we focused on fu
ndamentally changing our deposit 
mix and reducing the overall cost of funds. The net interest 
margin increased 3 basis points to 3.41% from 3.38%.  The increase
 
reflected the positive impact of a 29 basi
s point decline in to
tal deposit costs that was partially offset by a 24 basis point 
decline in the 
yield on earning assets and a 2 ba
sis point decrease related to non-de
posit funding and other items.   
 
Noninterest income was $1.1 billion in 
2012, a 12% increase 
compared with 2011.  This in
cluded a $107.7 million, or 129%, 
increase in mortgage banking income, a $26.2 million, or 82%, incr
ease in gain on sale of loans, 
an $18.7 million, or 8%, incre
ase in 
service charges on deposit accounts, an $11.6 million, or 32%, 
increase in capital market fees, and an $11.2 million bargain pu
rchase 
gain related to the acquisition of Fidelity 
Bank.  These positive impacts were par
tially offset by a $29.4 million, or 26%, dec
rease in 
electronic banking income, which was negatively impacted by over 
$55 million from the Durbin amend
ment, and a $16.0 million, or
 
11%, decrease in other income reflecting a 
$16.5 million, or 62%, decrease 
in automobile operating leas
e income.  This year™s r
esults 
showed the continued benefit of our investments and our differentia
ted strategy.  These investments, combined with adding over 
133,000 consumer households, a 12% increase, and 12,700 commercia
l relationships, a 9% increase, has allowed us to grow revenue
 
and pretax income by more than $200 
million and $117 million, respectively. 
 
Noninterest expense was $1.8 billion in 2012, a 6% increase comp
ared with 2011.  This inclu
ded a $95.7 million, or 11%, 
increase in personnel costs primarily reflecting an increase in the 
number of full-time equivalent
 employees as well as higher 
incentive 
based compensation and a $10.4 million, or 11%, increase in eq
uipment expense, primarily reflec
ting the implementation of strat
egic 
initiatives, including opening 37, or 6%, net 
new branches. These increases were offset
 partially by a $9.3 million, or 12%, de
crease in 
deposit and other insurance expense.  The current year results also included $14.1 million of noninterest expense related to th
e Fidelity 
acquisition, which closed on March 30, 2012. 
 
Credit quality performance continued to show improvement as both 
our NALs and NCOs declined and coverage ratios increased.  
Compared with the prior year, NALs declin
ed 25%.  NCOs were $342.5 million, or 0.85% of 
average total loans and leases, down 
from $437.1 million, or 1.12% in 2011.  Of 
the current year™s NCOs, $34.6 million 
related to regulatory guidance requiring cons
umer 
loans discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
to be charged down to collateral value.  The ACL as a percentage of loans and lease
s 
was 1.99%, down from 2.60% at December 31, 2011 and our ACL as a percentage of total NALs increased to 199% from 187%.  The 
level of Criticized commercial loans also declin
ed $0.5 billion, or 25%, from last year. 
 The provision for credit losses decli
ned $26.7 
million, or 15%, from 2011.   
 
At December 31, 2012, our regulatory Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio was 10.48%, up from 10.00% at December 31, 
2011, and our tangible common equity ratio 
increased to 8.76% from 8.30% over this s
ame period.  The regulatory Tier 1 risk-bas
ed 
capital ratio at December 31, 2012, was 12.02%, down from 12.11%, at December 31, 2011.  This decline reflected the redemption 
of 
$230 million of trust preferred securities 
and the repurchase of 23.3 million common 
shares at an average price of $6.36 per sh
are.  
Reinvesting excess capital to grow the business organically remains 
our first priority.  Importan
tly, through dividends and sha
re 
repurchases, we have the flex
ibility, subject to market conditions
 and regulatory approval, to retu
rn a meaningful amount of ou
r 
earnings to our shareholders.  We continue to evaluate other cap
ital actions. As we have shown over the last several years, we 
will 
continue to maintain a high level of discipline 
when considering mergers and acquisitions.   
 
27 
 
Business Overview 
 
General 
 
Our general business objectives ar
e: (1) grow net interest income and fee income, (2) increase cross-sell and share-of-wallet 
across all business segments, (3) improve efficiency ratio, (4) contin
ue to strengthen risk mana
gement, including sustained 
improvements in credit metric
s, and (5) maintain strong capital and liquidity positions.   
 
We were pleased with the financial results
 in 2012, which reflected steady growth in a number of key areas including loans, 
deposits, and customer relationships as 
well as improved profitability. This growth 
has occurred in a challenging economic and 
regulatory environment.  It demonstrates the continued benefits
 from successfully executing our
 long-term strategic plan, inclu
ding the 
investments we have made during the previous
 three years. Those investments added over
 $50 million of pretax income during 2012
 
and we expect that benefit to grow as thos
e investments continue to mature.  While some
 businesses are hesitant to invest given
 the 
current uncertainty in the economy, we believe 
our differentiated approach to banking, 
combined with investing in our franchise
 
through enhanced products and se
rvices, will drive growth and improv
ement of our long-term profitability. 
 
As is the nature of a mature industry with arguably overcapacity, we continue to face strong competition from other banks and 
financial service firms in our markets.  To address these challenges,
 the cornerstone of our strategy
 has been to invest in the
 franchise 
in order to grow our market share and share-of-wallet.  In this regard, our OCR methodology continued to deliver strong success
 in 
2012.  Consumer checking account households grew 12.2%, and our 
cross-sell performance continued to improve.  At the end of the
 
year, 78.3% of our consumer checking account 
households utilized over four products.  Th
is compared with 73.5% a year earlier. 
 
Growth in commercial relationships was 9.2% in 2012.  At the en
d of the year, 35.0% of our comm
ercial relationships used over f
our 
products or services, up from 31.4% a year earlier.  Our ﬁFair Playﬂ philosophy, combined with continued OCR success, while 
positively impacting 2012 results, also pos
itions us for better long-term performance. 
 
Economy 
 
We continue to see positive trends within our Midwest markets 
relative to the broader
 United States. Nevertheless, broad based 
customer sentiment began to change in late 2012, due to increased concerns regarding the U.S. economy.  While some businesses a
re 
hesitant to invest given the current uncer
tainty in the economy, we believ
e our differentiated 
approach to banking, combined wi
th 
investing in our franchise through enhanced
 products and services, w
ill drive growth and improvemen
t of our long-term profitabi
lity.  
 
Generally, our footprint large metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) un
employment rates were below the national average as of 
November 2012.  In addition, FH
FA housing prices were up in the 
2012 third quarter relat
ive to the same quarter of last year in
 all of 
our footprint states, except Pennsylvania, which was essentially
 unchanged.  Strong affordability and continued economic growth
 
should support continued housing recovery in 2013, as long as risks to the overall U.S. economy are contained.   
 
Legislative and Regulatory 
 
Regulatory reforms continue to be adopted which impose additional restrictions on current business practices.  Recent actions 
affecting us include the banking regulators™ BASEL III proposal 
and deferral, FRB and OCC capital plans and stress testing rule
s, and 
CFPB rules governing consumer 
mortgage lending.  A comprehensive discussion 
of legislative and regulatory
 matters can be found 
in 
the Regulatory Matters section included in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.   
 
2013 Expectations 
 
We expect to continue seeing the strong
 growth of the Midwest econo
my relative to the broader United States.  However, 
business sentiment continues to be negatively
 influenced by the uncertainty in Washington
 and its direct impact on the U.S. eco
nomy. 
We remain optimistic that when solutions are in place, the strength of the Midwest and the soundness of our strategy will conti
nue to 
drive growth.   
 
Net interest income is expected to modestly grow over the co
urse of 2013, after experiencing its usual first quarter seasonal 
decline, as we anticipate an increase in total loans, excluding 
the impact of any future loan
 securitizations. However, those b
enefits to 
net interest income are expected to be mos
tly offset by downward pressure on our net 
interest margin.  Th
e net interest margin 
is not 
expected to fall below the mid 3.30%™s due to continued de
posit re-pricing and mix shif
t opportunities, while maintaining a 
disciplined approach to loan pricing.   
 
  
28 
 
The C&I portfolio is expected to continue 
to see growth in 2013, although 
we expect growth will be more
 heavily weighted to the
 
back half of the year when we expect economic uncertainty driven
 by Washington to be resolved
. Our C&I sales pipeline remains 
robust with much of this reflecting the 
positive impact from ou
r strategic initiatives, focused OCR sales process, and continue
d 
support of middle market and small business lending in the Midw
est.  While on-balance sheet exposure is expected to increase, w
e 
will continue to evaluate the use of au
tomobile loan securitizations due to our ex
pectation of continued strong levels of origi
nations 
and anticipate two securitizations in 2013.  Resi
dential mortgages and home equity loan b
alances are expected to increase modes
tly. 
CRE loans likely will experience d
eclines from current levels but are 
expected to remain in the $5
.0 to $5.5 billion range.   
 
Excluding potential future autom
obile loan securitizations, we an
ticipate the increase in total loans will modestly outpace gro
wth 
in total deposits. This reflects our conti
nued focus on the overall cost
 of funds, the continued shift towards low- and no-cost
 demand 
deposits and money market deposit accounts, and a reduction in balances with several larger relationships.   
 
Noninterest income over the course of 2
013, excluding the impact of any automobile loan
 sales, any net MSR impact, and typical 
first quarter seasonality, is expected to be relatively stable at 
current levels. The 
anticipated slowdown in mortgage banking 
activity is 
expected to be offset by continued grow
th in new customers, increased contributio
n from higher cross-sell, and the continued 
maturation of our previous st
rategic investments.   
 
Noninterest expense continued to run at le
vels above our long-term expectations rela
tive to revenue. In response to changes in 
our 
economic outlook, we have moderated the pace and size of our planned investments in order to drive positive operating leverage 
in 
2013.   
 
Credit quality is expected to experience improvement, and NC
Os should approach no
rmalized levels by th
e end of 2013. The 
level of provision for credit lo
sses in 2012 was at the low end 
of our long-term expectation, and 
we expect some quarterly vola
tility 
within each of the loan
 categories given the absolute low level of the pr
ovision for credit losses an
d the uncertain and uneven
 nature of 
the economic recovery.   
 
We anticipate an effective tax 
rate for 2013 to approximate 35% 
of income before income taxes
 less approximately $75 to $90 
million of permanent differences primarily related to tax-exempt
 income, tax advantaged investments, and general business credi
ts.   
29 
 
Table 2 - Selected Annual Income Statements (1)
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
Change from 2011
 
 
Change from 2010 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share 
amounts)
2012
Amount
Percent
 
2011 
 
Amount
Percent 
 
2010 
 
Interest income 
$
 
 1,930,263
$
 (39,963)
 (2)
%
$
 1,970,226
$ 
 (175,166)
 (8)
%
$
 2,145,392 
 
Interest expense 
 
 219,739
 (121,317)
 (36)
 
 341,056
 
 (185,531)
 (35)
 
 526,587 
 
N
et interest income 
 
 1,710,524
 81,354
 5 
 
 1,629,170
 
 10,365 
 1 
 
 1,618,805 
 
Provision for credit losses 
 
 147,388
 (26,671)
 (15)
 
 174,059
 
 (460,488)
 (73)
 
 634,547 
N
et interest income after provision fo
r
 
 
 
credit losses
 
 1,563,136
 108,025
 7 
 
 1,455,111
 
 470,853 
 48 
 
 984,258 
 
Service charges on deposit accounts  
 
 262,179
 18,672
 8 
 
 243,507
 
 (23,508)
 (9)
 
 267,015 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 191,092
 107,684
 129 
 
 83,408
 
 (92,374)
 (53)
 
 175,782 
 
Trust services  
 
 121,897
 2,515
 2 
 
 119,382
 
 6,827 
 6 
 
 112,555 
 
Electronic banking 
 
 82,290
 (29,407)
 (26)
 
 111,697
 
 1,463 
 1 
 
 110,234 
 
Brokerage income 
 
 72,226
 (8,141)
 (10)
 
 80,367
 
 11,512 
 17 
 
 68,855 
 
Insurance income 
 
 71,319
 1,849
 3 
 
 69,470
 
 (6,943)
 (9)
 
 76,413 
 
Gain on sale of loans 
 
 58,182
 26,238
 82 
 
 31,944
 
 25,669 
 409 
 
 6,275 
 
Bank owned life insurance income 
 
 56,042
 (6,294)
 (10)
 
 62,336
 
 1,270 
 2 
 
 61,066 
 
Capital markets fees 
 
 48,160
 11,620
 32 
 
 36,540
 
 12,654 
 53 
 
 23,886 
 
Securities gains (losses) 
 
 4,769
 8,450
N.R.
 
 (3,681)
 
 (3,407)
 1,243 
 
 (274)
 
Other income  
 
 129,701
 (15,952)
 (11)
 
 145,653
 
 5,602 
 4 
 
 140,051 
Total noninterest income 
 1,097,857
 117,234
 12 
 
 980,623
 
 (61,235)
 (6)
 
 1,041,858 
 
Personnel costs 
 
 988,193
 95,659
 11 
 
 892,534
 
 93,561 
 12 
 
 798,973 
 
Outside data processing and other 
services 
 
 190,255
 1,081
 1 
 
 189,174
 
 27,360 
 17 
 
 161,814 
 
N
et occupancy 
 
 111,160
 2,031
 2 
 
 109,129
 
 1,267 
 1 
 
 107,862 
 
Equipment 
 
 102,947
 10,403
 11 
 
 92,544
 
 6,624 
 8 
 
 85,920 
 
Deposit and other insurance expense 
 
 68,330
 (9,362)
 (12)
 
 77,692
 
 (19,856)
 (20)
 
 97,548 
 
Professional services 
 
 65,758
 (2,858)
 (4)
 
 68,616
 
 (17,595)
 (20)
 
 86,211 
 
Marketing 
 
 64,263
 (1,297)
 (2)
 
 65,560
 
 9,213 
 16 
 
 56,347 
 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 46,549
 (6,769)
 (13)
 
 53,318
 
 (7,160)
 (12)
 
 60,478 
 
OREO and foreclosure expense 
 
 18,271
 265
 1 
 
 18,006
 
 (21,043)
 (54)
 
 39,049 
 
Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
 
 (798)
 8,899
 (92)
 
 (9,697)
 
 (9,697)
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other expense 
 
 180,948
 9,324
 5 
 
 171,624
 
 (7,979)
 (4)
 
 179,603 
Total noninterest expense 
 1,835,876
 107,376
 6 
 
 1,728,500
 
 54,695 
 3 
 
 1,673,805 
Income before income taxes 
 
 825,117
 117,883
 17 
 
 707,234
 
 354,923 
 101 
 
 352,311 
Provision for income taxes 
 
 184,095
 19,474
 12 
 
 164,621
 
 124,657 
 312 
 
 39,964 
N
et income 
$
 641,022
$
 98,409
 18 
%
$
 542,613
$ 
 230,266 
 74 
%
$
 312,347 
Dividends on preferred shares 
 
 31,989
 
 1,176
 4 
 
 30,813
 
 (141,219)
 (82)
 
 
 172,032 
N
et income applicable to common shares 
$
 609,033
$
 97,233
 19 
%
$
 511,800
$ 
 371,485 
 265 
%
$
 140,315 
 
 
 
Average common shares - basic
 
 
 857,962
 (5,729)
 (1)
%
 
 863,691
 
 136,757 
 19 
%
 
 726,934 
Average common shares - diluted
(2)
 
 
 863,402
 (4,222)
 ---
 
 867,624
 
 138,092 
 19 
 
 
 729,532 
 
 
 
Per common share:
 
 
N
et income - basic
 
$
 
 0.71
$
 0.12
 20 
%
$
 0.59
$ 
 0.40 
 211 
%
$
 0.19 
N
et income - diluted 
 
 0.71
 0.12
 20 
 
 0.59
 
 0.40 
 211 
 
 
 0.19 
Cash dividends declared 
 
 0.16
 0.06
 60 
 
 0.10
 
 0.06 
 150 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
Revenue - FTE
N
et interest income
 
$
 
 1,710,524
$
 81,354
 5 
%
$
 1,629,170
$ 
 10,365 
 1 
%
$
 1,618,805 
 
FTE adjustment 
 
 20,406
 5,490
 37 
 
 14,916
 
 3,839 
 35 
 
 
 11,077 
N
et interest income
(3)
 
 
 1,730,930
 86,844
 5 
 
 1,644,086
 
 14,204 
 1 
 
 
 1,629,882 
N
oninterest income 
 
 1,097,857
 117,234
 12 
 
 980,623
 
 (61,235)
 (6)
 
 
 1,041,858 
Total revenue
(3)
 
$
 
 2,828,787
$
 204,078
 8 
%
$
 2,624,709
$ 
 (47,031)
 (2)
%
$
 2,671,740 
N
.R. - Not relevant, as denomin
ator of calculation is a loss in pr
ior period compared with 
income in current period.
 
 
  
30 
 
 
(1)
  Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to Significant Items. 
(2)
  For all periods presented, the impact of 
the convertible preferred stoc
k issued in 2008 and the warrants issued to the U.S. 
Department of the Treasury in 2008 rela
ted to Huntington's participation in the vol
untary Capital Purchase Program was excluded
 
from the diluted share calculation because the result was more than basic earnings per common share (anti-dilutive) for the per
iods.  
The convertible preferred stock and warrants were repurchased in December 2010 and January 2011, respectively. 
(3)
  On a FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 
DISCUSSION OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
 This section provides a review of financ
ial performance from a consolidated perspective. It also includes a Significant Items 
section that summarizes key issues important for a complete understa
nding of performance trends. 
Key consolidated balance sheet
 and 
income statement trends are discussed. All earnings per share data
 is reported on a diluted basis. For additional insight on fi
nancial 
performance, please read this section in conjunction with the Business Segment Discussion. 
 
Significant Items 
Definition of Significant Items 
 
From time-to-time, revenue, expenses, or tax
es, are impacted by items judged by us 
to be outside of ordinary banking activities
 
and / or by items that, while they may be 
associated with ordinary bank
ing activities, are so unusually large that their outsiz
ed impact 
is believed by us at that time to be infrequent or short-term 
in nature. We refer to such items 
as Significant Items. Most ofte
n, these 
Significant Items result from factors originating outside the Company; e.g., regulatory actions / assessments, windfall gains, 
changes 
in accounting principles, one-time tax assessments / refunds,
 litigation actions, etc.  In other cases they may result from our
 decisions 
associated with significant corporate actions 
out of the ordinary course of business;
 e.g., merger / restructuring charges, 
recapitalization actions, goodwill impairment, etc.   
 
Even though certain revenu
e and expense items are naturally subject to more 
volatility than others due to changes in market and
 
economic environment conditions, as a gene
ral rule volatility alone does not define a Si
gnificant Item. For example, changes in
 the 
provision for credit losses, ga
ins / losses from investment activities, asset valuation writedowns, etc., reflect ordinary bank
ing 
activities and are, therefore, typically exclude
d from consideration as a Significant Item. 
 
Management believes the disclosure of Significant Items in curr
ent and prior period results aids analysts/investors in better 
understanding corporate performance and trends so that they 
can ascertain which of such items, if any, they may wish to 
include/exclude from their analysis of the company™s performance 
- i.e., within the context of 
determining how that performance
 
differed from their expectations, as well as how, if at all, to adjust their estimates of future performance accordingly. To th
is end, 
Management has adopted a practice of listing Significant Items in 
its external disclosure documents (e.g., earnings press relea
ses, 
quarterly performance discussions, investor
 presentations, Forms 10-Q and 10-K). 
 
Significant Items for any particular period 
are not intended to be a 
complete list of items that may materially impact current 
or 
future period performance.  
 
 
Significant Items Influencing Fina
ncial Performance Comparisons 
 
Earnings comparisons among the three years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 were impacted by a number of 
Significant Items summarized below. 
 
1.
State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment.
   During 2012, a valuation allowance of $21.3 million (net of tax) 
was released for the portion of the deferred tax asset and state net operating loss carryforwards expected to be realized.  Thi
s 
resulted in a positive impact of $0.02 per 
common share for 2012.  Additional informat
ion can be found in
 the Provision for 
Income Taxes section within this MD&A. 
 
2.
Bargain Purchase Gain.
  During 2012, an $11.2 million 
bargain purchase gain associated with the FDIC-assisted Fidelity 
Bank acquisition was recorded in noninteres
t income.  This resulted in
 a positive impact of $0.01
 per common share for 2012. 
 
3.
Litigation Reserve.
  $23.5 million and $17.0 million of additions to litigati
on reserves were record
ed as other noninterest 
expense in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  This resulted in a negative impact of $0.02 per common share in 2012 and $0.01 per 
common share in 2011. 
31 
 
4.
Visa

.
 Prior to the Visa
®
 IPO occurring in March 2008, Visa
® 
was owned by its member banks, which included the Bank.  As 
a result of this ownership, we received Class B shares of Visa
®
 stock at the time of the Visa
®
 IPO.  In 2009, we sold these Visa
®
 
stock shares, resulting in 
a $31.4 million pretax gain ($.04
 per common share).  This amoun
t was recorded to noninterest 
income.  In 2011, a $6.4 million deriva
tive loss due to an increase 
in the liability associated with
 the sale of these shares w
as 
recorded to noninterest income. 
 
 
5.
Franklin Relationship. 
 Our relationship with Franklin wa
s acquired in the 2007 Sky Fina
ncial acquisition.  Si
gnificant events 
relating to this relationship, and the im
pacts of those events on our report
ed results, were as follows:   

During 2010, a $38.2 million ($0.05 per 
common share) net tax benefit was recognized, primarily reflecting the increase 
in the net deferred tax asset relating to the assets
 acquired from the March 31, 2009 restructuring. 

During 2010, the portfolio of Franklin-related loans ($333.0 million of residential mortgages and $64.7 million of home 
equity loans) was transferred to
 loans held for sale.  At the 
time of the transfer, the loan
s were marked to the lower of 
cost or fair value less costs to sell of $323.4 million, resu
lting in $75.5 million of charge
-offs, and the provision for 
credit losses commensurately increased $75.5 million ($0.07 per common share).  
6.
Early Extinguishment of Debt.  
The positive impact relating to the early extingui
shment of debt on our reported results was 
$9.7 million ($0.01 per common share) in 2011.
  
 
The following table reflects the earnings impact of the above-menti
oned significant items for periods affected by this Results 
of 
Operations discussion: 
 
Table 3 - Significant Items Influenci
ng Earnings Performance Comparison (1)
 
2012
2011 
 
2010  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share 
amounts)
 
After-tax
EPS
After-tax
EPS 
 
After-tax
 
EPS 
N
et income  - GAAP 
$
 641,022 
$
 542,613
 
 
 
 
$
 312,347
 
 
 
 
Earnings per share, after-tax 
$
 0.71 
 
$
 0.59 
 
 
 
$
 0.19 
 
 
Change from prior year - $
 
 
 
 0.12 
 
 
 0.40 
 
 
 
 
 6.33 
 
 
Change from prior year - %
 
 
 
 20 
%
 
 
 211 
% 
 
 
 
N.
R
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant items - favorable (unfavorable) 
impact:
 
Earnings (2)
EPS (3)(4) 
Earnings (2)
EPS (3)(4) 
Earnings (2) 
EPS (3)(4) 
State deferred tax asset valuation allowance 
adjustment
(4)
 
$
 21,251 
$
 0.02 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
Bargain purchase gain 
 11,217 
 0.01 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Litigation reserves addition 
 (23,500)
 (0.02)
 (17,028)
 
 (0.01)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Visa®-related derivative loss 
 
 ---
 ---
 (6,385)
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
N
et tax benefit recognize
d
(4)
 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 38,222
 
 
 0.05 
 
Franklin-related loans transferred to held for 
sale 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (75,500)
 
 (0.07)
 
Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
 
 ---
 ---
 9,697
 
 
 0.01 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
N
.R. - Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a loss in prior period compared with income in current period.
 
 
(1)
See Significant Items Influencing Financial Performance discussion. 
 
 
 
(2)
Pretax unless otherwise noted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)
Based upon the annual average outstanding diluted common shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4)
After-tax.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
 
Net Interest Income / Average Balance Sheet 
Our primary source of revenue is net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from earning assets 
(primarily loans, securities, and direct financing leases), and in
terest expense of funding sources 
(primarily interest-bearing
 deposits 
and borrowings). Earning asset ba
lances and related funding 
sources, as well as changes in 
the levels of interest rates, impact
 net 
interest income. The difference between the average yield on earning assets and the average rate paid for interest-bearing liab
ilities is 
the net interest spread. Noninterest-bearing sources of funds, su
ch as demand deposits and shareholders™ equity, also support e
arning 
assets. The impact of the noninterest-bearing sources of funds, often 
referred to as ﬁfreeﬂ funds,
 is captured in the net inter
est margin, 
which is calculated as net interest 
income divided by average earning assets.  Bo
th the net interest margin and net interest sp
read are 
presented on a fully-taxable equi
valent basis, which means that tax
-free interest income has been adjusted to a pretax equivale
nt 
income, assuming a 35% tax rate.  
 
The following table shows changes in full
y-taxable equivalent interest income, intere
st expense, and net interest income due to
 
volume and rate variances for major categories of 
earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities: 
 
Table 4 - Change in Net Interest Income Due to Changes in Average Volume and Interest Rates
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012
2011  
 
 
 
Increase (Decrease) From
Increase (Decrease) From 
 
 
 
Previous Year Due To
Previous Year Due To 
Fully-taxable equivalent basis
(2) 
 
 
Yield/
 
 
 
Yield/ 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
Volume
Rate
Total
Volume 
 
 
Rate 
 
Total 
 
Loans and direct financing leases
 
$
 
 58.6 
$
 (105.6)
$
 (47.0)
$
 77.5 
$ 
 (213.1)
$ 
 (135.6)
 
Investment securities
 
 
 1.9 
 (2.1)
 (0.2)
 0.1 
  
 (31.7)
 
 (31.6)
 
Other earning assets
 
 
 24.2 
 (11.5)
 12.7 
 (16.7)
  
 12.5 
 
 (4.2)
Total interest income from earning assets
 
 84.7 
 (119.2)
 (34.5)
 60.9 
  
 (232.3)
  
 (171.4)
 
Deposits
 
 
 (3.0)
 (94.8)
 (97.8)
 (4.2)
  
 (174.9)
  
 (179.1)
 
Short-term borrowings
 
 
 (1.2)
 (0.3)
 (1.5)
 1.1 
  
 (0.6)
  
 0.5
 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances
 
 
 0.8 
 (0.8)
 ---
 (0.9)
  
 (1.4)
  
 (2.3)
 
Subordinated notes and other long-term debt,
 
 
 
 
 
including capital securities
 
 
 (32.0)
 10.0
 (22.0)
 (14.1)
  
 9.4 
  
 (4.7)
Total interest expense of interest-bearing liabilities
 
 (35.4)
 (85.9)
 (121.3)
 (18.1)
  
 (167.5)
  
 (185.6)
N
et interest income
 
$
 120.1 
$
 (33.3)
$
 86.8 
$
 79.0 
$ 
 (64.8)
$ 
 14.2
(
1
)
The change in interest rates due to both rate and volume has been allocated between the factors in proportion to the relationsh
ip of the 
absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.
(
2
)
Calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
33 
 
Table 5 - Consolidated Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Margin Analysis
 
Average Balances
Fully-taxable equivalent basis (1) 
 
Change from 2011
 
 
Change from 2010
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
Amount
Percent 
 
2011 
 
Amount
Percent 
2010 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest-bearing deposits in banks 
$ 
 95
$
 (38)
 (29)
% 
 
$
 133 
 
$
 (156)
 (54)
% 
$
 289
Trading account securities 
 
 67
 
 (40)
 (37)
 
 
 
 107 
 
 (51)
 (32)
 
 158
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resale agreement 
 
 ---
 
 (5)
N.R.
 
 
 
 5 
 
 5 
 ---
 
 ---
Loans held for sale 
 
 1,087
 
 799 
 277 
 
 
 
 288 
 
 (241)
 (46)
 
 529
Available-for-sale and other securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taxable 
 
 7,898
 
 (473)
 (6)
 
 
 
 8,371 
 
 (389)
 (4)
 
 8,760
 
Tax-exempt 
 
 427
 
 (1)
 ---
 
 
 
 428 
 
 17 
 4 
 
 411
Total available-for-sale and other securities 
 
 8,325
 
 (474)
 (5)
 
 
 
 8,799 
 
 (372)
 (4)
 
 9,171
Held-to-maturity securities - taxable 
 
 925
 
 550 
 147 
 
 
 
 375 
 
 375 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Loans and leases: (3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 15,944
 
 2,347 
 17 
 
 
 
 13,597 
 
 1,166 
 9 
 
 12,431
 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
 582
 
 (10)
 (2)
 
 
 
 592 
 
 (504)
 (46)
 
 1,096
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 5,198
 
 (415)
 (7)
 
 
 
 5,613 
 
 (516)
 (8)
 
 6,129
 
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 5,780
 
 (425)
 (7)
 
 
 
 6,205 
 
 (1,020)
 (14)
 
 7,225
 
 
Total commercial 
 
 21,724
 
 1,922 
 10 
 
 
 
 19,802 
 
 146 
 1 
 
 19,656
 
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile loans and leases 
 
 4,526
 
 (1,351)
 (23)
 
 
 
 5,877 
 
 987 
 20 
 
 4,890
 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 8,315
 
 375 
 5 
 
 
 
 7,940 
 
 350 
 5 
 
 7,590
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 5,190
 
 473 
 10 
 
 
 
 4,717 
 
 241 
 5 
 
 4,476
 
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 455
 
 (76)
 (14)
 
 
 
 531 
 
 (130)
 (20)
 
 661
 
 
Total consumer 
 
 18,486
 
 (579)
 (3)
 
 
 
 19,065 
 
 1,448 
 8 
 
 17,617
 
Total loans and leases 
 
 40,210
 
 1,343 
 3 
 
 
 
 38,867 
 
 1,594 
 4 
 
 37,273
 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
 
 (876)
 
 233 
 (21)
 
 
 
 (1,109)
 
 321 
 (22)
 
 (1,430)
N
et loans and leases 
 
 39,334
 
 1,576 
 4 
 
 
 
 37,758 
 
 1,915 
 5 
 
 35,843
 
Total earning assets 
 
 50,709
 
 2,135 
 4 
 
 
 
 48,574 
 
 1,154 
 2 
 
 47,420
Cash and due from banks 
 
 1,090
 
 (346)
 (24)
 
 
 
 1,436 
 
 (82)
 (5)
 
 1,518
Intangible assets 
 
 600
 
 (45)
 (7)
 
 
 
 645 
 
 (57)
 (8)
 
 702
All other assets 
 
 4,151
 
 (53)
 (1)
 
 
 
 4,204 
 
 (160)
 (4)
 
 4,364
Total Assets 
$
 
 55,674
$
 1,924 
 4 
% 
 
$
 53,750 
 
$
 1,176 
 2 
% 
$
 52,574
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing 
$
 
 12,200
$
 3,547 
 41 
% 
 
$
 8,653 
 
$
 1,794 
 26 
% 
$
 6,859
 
 
Demand deposits - interest-bearing 
 
 5,811
 
 294 
 5 
 
 
 
 5,517 
 
 (62)
 (1)
 
 5,579
 
 
Total demand deposits 
 
 18,011
 
 3,841 
 27 
 
 
 
 14,170 
 
 1,732 
 14 
 
 12,438
 
 
Money market deposits 
 
 13,901
 
 579 
 4 
 
 
 
 13,322 
 
 1,579 
 13 
 
 11,743
 
 
Savings and other domestic deposits 
 
 4,933
 
 198 
 4 
 
 
 
 4,735 
 
 93 
 2 
 
 4,642
 
 
Core certificates of deposit 
 
 6,221
 
 (1,481)
 (19)
 
 
 
 7,702 
 
 (1,486)
 (16)
 
 9,188
 
Total core deposits 
 
 43,066
 
 3,137 
 8 
 
 
 
 39,929 
 
 1,918 
 5 
 
 38,011
 
Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more 
 
 326
 
 (139)
 (30)
 
 
 
 465 
 
 (232)
 (33)
 
 697
 
Brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs 
 
 1,590
 
 168 
 12 
 
 
 
 1,422 
 
 (181)
 (11)
 
 1,603
 
Deposits in foreign offices 
 
 372
 
 (17)
 (4)
 
 
 
 389 
 
 (38)
 (9)
 
 427
Total deposits 
 
 45,354
 
 3,149 
 7 
 
 
 
 42,205 
 
 1,467 
 4 
 
 40,738
Short-term borrowings 
 
 1,310
 
 (745)
 (36)
 
 
 
 2,055 
 
 609 
 42 
 
 1,446
Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 
 298
 
 187 
 168 
 
 
 
 111 
 
 (62)
 (36)
 
 173
Subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
 
 1,976
 
 (1,189)
 (38)
 
 
 
 3,165 
 
 (615)
 (16)
 
 
 3,780
 
 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 
 
 36,738
 
 (2,145)
 (6)
 
 
 
 38,883 
 
 (395)
 (1)
 
 39,278
All other liabilities 
 
 1,065
 
 89 
 9 
 
 
 
 976 
 
 20 
 2 
 
 
 956
 
Shareholders' equity 
 
 5,671
 
 433 
 8 
 
 
 
 5,238 
 
 (243)
 (4)
 
 
 5,481
 
Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity 
$
 
 55,674
$
 1,924 
 4 
% 
 
$
 53,750 
 
$
 1,176 
 2 
% 
$
 52,574
Continued 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
.R. - Not relevant, as numerator of calculation is zero in the current period. 
 
  
34 
 
Table 6 - Consolidated Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Margin Analysis (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest Income / Expense
 
Average Rate (2) 
 
Fully-taxable equivalent basis (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
 
2010 
 
 
2012
 
2011 
2010  
Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest-bearing deposits in banks 
$
 
 0.2
$
 0.1 
$
 0.8
 0.21 
%
 0.11 
% 
 0.28 
% 
Trading account securities 
 
 0.9
 
 1.5 
 2.9
 1.27 
 1.37 
 
 1.82 
 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under 
 
 
 
 
 
resale agreement
 
 
---
 
 ---
 ---
 0.29 
 0.09 
 
 ---
 
Loans held for sale 
 
 36.8
 
 12.3 
 25.7
 3.38 
 4.27 
 
 4.85 
 
Available-for-sale and other securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
Taxable
 
 
 184.3
 
 208.0 
 239.1
 2.33 
 2.48 
 
 2.73 
 
 
Tax-exempt
 
 
 17.7
 
 18.3 
 18.8
 4.14 
 4.28 
 
 4.56 
 
Total available-for-sale and other securities 
 
 202.0
 
 226.3 
 257.9
 2.43 
 2.57 
 
 2.81 
 
Held-to-maturity securities - taxable 
 
 24.1
 
 11.2 
 ---
 2.60 
 2.99 
 
 ---
 
 
Loans and leases: (3)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
 
 
 639.5
 
 585.6 
 660.6
 4.01 
 4.31 
 
 5.31 
 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction
 
 
 22.9
 
 23.0 
 30.6
 3.93 
 3.88 
 
 2.79 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial
 
 
 208.6
 
 222.7 
 234.9
 4.01 
 3.97 
 
 3.83 
 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate
 
 
 231.4
 
 245.7 
 265.5
 4.00 
 3.96 
 
 3.67 
 
 
 
Total commercial
 
 
 870.9
 
 831.3 
 926.1
 4.01 
 4.20 
 
 4.71 
 
 
 
Consumer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile loans and leases
 
 
 214.1
 
 293.2 
 295.2
 4.73 
 4.99 
 
 6.04 
 
 
 
 
Home equity
 
 
 355.9
 
 355.0 
 383.7
 4.28 
 4.47 
 
 5.06 
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage
 
 
 212.7
 
 213.6 
 216.8
 4.10 
 4.53 
 
 4.84 
 
 
 
 
Other consumer
 
 
 33.3
 
 40.6 
 47.5
 7.31 
 7.63 
 
 7.18 
 
 
 
Total consumer
 
 
 815.9
 
 902.4 
 943.2
 4.41 
 4.73 
 
 5.35 
 
 
Total loans and leases
 
 
 1,686.8
 
 1,733.7 
 1,869.3
 4.19 
 4.46 
 
 5.02 
 
 
Total earning assets
 
$
 
 1,950.7
$
 1,985.1 
$
 2,156.6
 3.85 
%
 4.09 
% 
 4.55 
% 
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing
 
$
 
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 ---
%
 ---
% 
 ---
% 
 
 
Demand deposits - interest-bearing
 
 3.6
 
 5.1 
 10.4
 0.06 
 0.09 
 
 0.19 
 
 
 
Total demand deposits
 
 
 3.6
 
 5.1 
 10.4
 0.02 
 0.04 
 
 0.08 
 
 
 
Money market deposits
 
 
 40.2
 
 54.3 
 103.5
 0.29 
 0.41 
 
 0.88 
 
 
 
Savings and other domestic deposits
 
 
 18.9
 
 32.7 
 48.2
 0.38 
 0.69 
 
 1.04 
 
 
 
Core certificates of deposit
 
 
 85.0
 
 150.0 
 231.6
 1.37 
 1.95 
 
 2.52 
 
 
Total core deposits
 
 
 147.7
 
 242.2 
 393.7
 0.48 
 0.77 
 
 1.26 
 
 
Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more
 
 
 2.1
 
 4.5 
 9.3
 0.66 
 0.97 
 
 1.32 
 
 
Brokered time deposits and negotiable CDs
 
 
 11.7
 
 12.5 
 35.4
 0.74 
 0.88 
 
 2.21 
 
 
Deposits in foreign offices
 
 
 0.7
 
 0.9 
 0.8
 0.18 
 0.23 
 
 0.20 
 
Total deposits 
 
 162.2
 
 260.1 
 439.2
 0.49 
 0.78 
 
 1.30 
 
Short-term borrowings 
 
 2.0
 
 3.5 
 3.0
 0.16 
 0.17 
 
 0.21 
 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 
 0.8
 
 0.8 
 3.1
 0.28 
 0.74 
 
 1.80 
 
Subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
 
 54.7
 
 76.7 
 81.4
 2.77 
 2.42 
 
 2.15 
 
 
 
Total interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
 219.7
 
 341.1 
 526.7
 0.60 
 0.88 
 
 1.34 
 
 
N
et interest income
 
$
 
 1,730.9
$
 1,644.1 
$
 1,629.9
 
 
 
N
et interest rate sprea
d
 
 
 3.25 
 3.21 
 
 3.21 
 
 
Impact of noninterest-bearing funds on margin
 
 
 0.16 
 0.18 
 
 0.23 
 
N
et Interest Margin 
 
 3.41 
%
 3.38 
% 
 3.44 
% 
(
1
)
FTE yields are calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
 
 
 
 
(
2
)
Loan and lease and deposit average rates include impact of applicable derivatives, non-deferrable fees, and amortized fees. 
 
 
 
 
(
3
)
For purposes of this analysis, nonaccrual loans are 
reflected in the average balances of loans. 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
2012 vs. 2011 
 
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income for 2012 increase
d $86.8 million, or 5%, from 2011.  This reflected the favorable 
impact of a $2.1 billion, or 4%, increase in average earning assets and a 3 basis point increase in the FTE net interest margin
. The 
increase in average earning assets reflected:  
 

$1.9 billion, or 10%, increase in
 average total commercial loans. 
 

$0.8 billion, or 277%, increase in 
average loans held for sale. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$0.6 billion, or 3% decrease in average co
nsumer loans including a $1.4 billion,
 or 23%, decrease in 
automobile loans, 
reflecting $2.5 billion of automobile 
loans sold throughout the year. 
 
The 3 basis point increase in the FTE net interest margin reflected: 
 

The positive impact of a 29 basis 
point decline in total deposit costs. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

24 basis point declines in the yield on earnings assets an
d a 2 basis point decrease relate
d to non-deposit funding and 
other items. 
 
The $3.1 billion, or 8%, increas
e in average total core deposits
 from the prior year reflected: 
 

$3.8 billion, or 27%, increase in
 total demand deposits.  
 

$0.6 billion, or 4%, increase in money market deposits. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$1.5 billion, or 19%, decrease in 
core certificates of deposits.  
 
2011 vs. 2010 
Fully-taxable equivalent net interest income for 2011 increase
d $14.2 million, or 1%, from 2010.  This reflected the favorable 
impact of a $1.2 billion, or 2%, in
crease in average earning assets, partially offs
et by a 6 basis point decline in the net int
erest margin. 
 
The increase in average earning assets reflected: 
 

$1.6 billion, or 4%, increase in 
average total loans and leases. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$0.4 billion, or 4%, decrease average total 
available-for-sale and other securities.   
          
The 6 basis point decline in the net interes
t margin reflected lower loan and securities
 yields partially offset by the positiv
e 
impacts of growth in low cost deposits and lower deposit pricing. 
 
The $1.6 billion, or 4%, increase in
 average total loans and leases from 
the prior year primarily reflected: 
 

$1.2 billion, or 9%, increase in the averag
e C&I portfolio due to a 
combination of factors.  This included benefits from 
our strategic initiatives focusing on large
 corporate, asset based lending, and e
quipment finance.  In addition, we 
continued to see growth in more traditi
onal middle-market, business banking, an
d automobile floorplan
 loans.  This 
growth was evident despite utilization rates th
at remained well below historical norms.   
 

$1.0 billion, or 20%, increase in
 the average automobile po
rtfolio.  Automobile lending is a core competency and 
continues to be an area of targeted growth.  The growth from
 the prior year exhibited fu
rther penetration within our 
historical geographic footprint, as well as
 the positive impacts of our expansion 
into Eastern Pennsylvania and five New 
England states.   
36 
 
 

$0.4 billion, or 5%, increase in 
average home eq
uity loans. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$1.0 billion, or 14%, decrease in the average CRE portfolio reflecting the continued execution of our plan to reduce the 
total CRE exposure, primarily in 
the noncore CRE portfolio.   
 
The $1.5 billion, or 4%, incr
ease in average total deposits
 from the prior year reflected: 
 

$1.9 billion, or 5%, increase in average 
total core deposits.  The drivers of this
 change were a $1.8 billion, or 26%, 
increase in average noninterest-
bearing demand deposits and a $1.6 billio
n, or 13%, increase in 
average money market 
deposits, partially offset by a $1.5 billion, or 16%,
 decline in aver
age core certificates of deposits. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$0.2 billion, or 33%, decline in
 average other domestic deposits of $250,00
0 or more, which reflected a strategy of 
reducing such noncore funding. 
 
 
Provision for Credit Losses 
(This section should be read in conjunction
 with Significant Item 5 
and the Credit Risk section.)
 
 
The provision for credit losses is the expense necessary to maintain the ALLL and the AULC at levels appropriate to absorb our 
estimate of inherent credit losses in the loan and lease portfo
lio and the portfolio of unfunded 
loan commitments and letters-o
f-credit. 
 
The provision for credit losses in 2012 was $147.4 million, down $26.7 million, or 15%, from 2011, including a $94.6 million, o
r 
22%, decrease in NCOs.  The provision for credit losse
s in 2012 was $195.1 m
illion less than total NCOs 
(see Credit Quality 
discussion)
.   
 
 
Noninterest Income 
(This section should be rea
d in conjunction with Significant Items 2 and 4.) 
 
The following table reflects noninterest income for the past three years:
 
 
Table 7 - Noninterest Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Twelve Months Ended December 31,
 
Change from 2011
 
 
 
Change from 2010 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
Amount
Percent 
 
2011  
Amount 
Percent 
 
2010  
 
Service charges on deposit accounts  
$
 262,179 
$
 18,672 
 
 8
% 
$
 243,507 
$ 
 (23,508)
 
 (9)
% 
$
 267,015 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 191,092 
 107,684 
 
 129
 
 
 83,408 
 
 (92,374)
 
 (53)
 
 
 175,782 
 
Trust services  
 
 121,897 
 2,515 
 
 2
 
 
 119,382 
 
 6,827 
 
 6 
 
 
 112,555 
 
Electronic banking 
 
 82,290 
 (29,407)
 
 (26)
 
 
 111,697 
 
 1,463 
 
 1 
 
 
 110,234 
 
Brokerage income 
 
 72,226 
 (8,141)
 
 (10)
 
 
 80,367 
 
 11,512 
 
 17 
 
 
 68,855 
 
Insurance income 
 
 71,319 
 1,849 
 
 3
 
 
 69,470 
 
 (6,943)
 
 (9)
 
 
 76,413 
 
Gain on sale of loans 
 
 58,182 
 26,238 
 
 82
 
 
 31,944 
 
 25,669 
 
 409 
 
 
 6,275 
 
Bank owned life insurance income 
 
 56,042 
 (6,294)
 
 (10)
 
 
 62,336 
 
 1,270 
 
 2 
 
 
 61,066 
 
Capital markets fees 
 
 48,160 
 11,620 
 
 32
 
 36,540 
 
 12,654 
 
 53 
 
 
 23,886 
 
Securities gains (losses) 
 
 4,769 
 8,450 
 
N.R.
 
 (3,681)
 
 (3,407)
 
 1,243 
 
 
 (274)
 
Other income  
 
 129,701 
 (15,952)
 
 (11)
 
 
 145,653 
 
 5,602 
 
 4 
 
 
 140,051 
Total noninterest income 
$
 1,097,857 
$
 117,234 
 
 12
% 
$ 
 980,623 
$ 
 (61,235)
 
 (6)
% 
$
 1,041,858 
N
.R. - Not relevant, as denominator of calculation is a loss in prior period compared with income in current period. 
 
37 
 
2012 vs. 2011 
 
Noninterest income increased $117.2 million, or
 12%, from the prior year, primarily reflecting: 
 

$107.7 million, or 129%, increase in mortgage banking inco
me.  This primarily reflected a $78.6 million increase in 
origination and secondary mark
eting income. Additionally, we 
recorded a $14.3 million net 
trading gain related to MSR 
hedging in 2012 compared to a net trading loss related to MSR hedging of $11.9 million in 2011. 
 

$26.2 million, or 82%, increase 
in gain on sale of loans. 
 

$18.7 million, or 8%, increase in service charges on
 deposits, due to conti
nued strong customer growth. 
 

$11.6 million, or 32%, increase in capital mar
ket fees primarily reflecting strong cust
omer demand for derivatives and other 
risk management products. 
 
 Partially offset by: 
 

$29.4 million, or 26%, decrease in electron
ic banking income related to implementi
ng the lower debit card interchange fee 
structure mandated in the Durbin Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act. 
 

$16.0 million, or 11%, decrease 
in other income, primarily related to a decr
ease in automobile oper
ating lease income and 
partially offset by the bargain purchase ga
in from the Fidelity Bank acquisition.  
 
2011 vs. 2010 
Noninterest income decreased $61.2 million, or 6%, from the prior year, primarily reflecting: 
 

$92.4 million, or 53%, decrease in mortga
ge banking income.  This primarily re
flected a $52.8 million decrease in net MSR 
activity and a $49.2 million, or 42%, decrease in origination an
d secondary marketing income, as originations decreased 28% 
from the prior year. 
 

$23.5 million, or 9%, decrease in service charges on deposit accounts, reflecting lower personal service charges due to the 
implementation of the amendment to Reg E and 
our ﬁFair Playﬂ consumer banking initiatives. 
 
 
 Partially offset by: 
 

$25.7 million, or 409%, increase in gain 
on sale of loans primarily due to a $1
5.5 million automobile loan securitization gain 
on sale in the 2011 third quarter and SB
A-related loan fees and ga
in on loan sales increased
 by $10.2 million in 2011. 
 

$12.7 million, or 53%, increase in cap
ital markets fees primarily due to incr
eases in trading derivative income. 
 

$11.5 million, or 17%, increase in brok
erage income, primarily re
flecting increased sales of investment products. 
 
 
38 
 
Noninterest Expense 
(This section should be rea
d in conjunction with Significant Items 3 and 6.) 
 
The following table reflects noninterest expense for the past three years: 
 
Table 8 - Noninterest Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Twelve Months Ended December 31, 
 
Change from 2011
 
 
Change from 2010 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
Amount 
 
Percent 
2011  
Amount 
Percent 
2010  
 
Personnel costs 
$
 988,193 
$
 95,659
 
 11 
% 
 
$
 892,534 
$ 
 93,561 
 
 12
% 
 
$
 798,973 
 
Outside data processing and other 
services 
 
 190,255 
 1,081
 
 1 
 
 
 189,174 
 
 27,360 
 
 17
 
 
 
 161,814 
 
N
et occupancy 
 
 111,160 
 2,031
 
 2 
 
 
 109,129 
 
 1,267 
 
 1
 
 
 
 107,862 
 
Equipment 
 
 102,947 
 10,403
 
 11 
 
 
 92,544 
 
 6,624 
 
 8
 
 
 
 85,920 
 
Deposit and other insurance expense 
 
 68,330 
 (9,362)
 
 (12)
 
 
 77,692 
 
 (19,856)
 
 (20)
 
 
 
 97,548 
 
Professional services 
 
 65,758 
 (2,858)
 
 (4)
 
 
 68,616 
 
 (17,595)
 
 (20)
 
 
 
 86,211 
 
Marketing 
 
 64,263 
 (1,297)
 
 (2)
 
 
 65,560 
 
 9,213 
 
 16
 
 
 
 56,347 
 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 46,549 
 (6,769)
 
 (13)
 
 
 53,318 
 
 (7,160)
 
 (12)
 
 
 
 60,478 
 
OREO and foreclosure expense 
 
 18,271 
 265
 
 1 
 
 
 18,006 
 
 (21,043)
 
 (54)
 
 
 
 39,049 
 
Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
 
 (798)
 8,899
 
 (92)
 
 
 (9,697)
 
 (9,697)
 
 ---
 
 
 
 ---
 
Other expense 
 
 180,948 
 9,324
 
 5 
 
 
 171,624 
 
 (7,979)
 
 (4)
 
 
 
 179,603 
Total noninterest expense 
$
 
 1,835,876 
$
 107,376
 
 6 
% 
 
$
 1,728,500 
$
 54,695 
 
 3
% 
 
$
 1,673,805 
N
umber of employees (full-time 
equivalent), at period-end 
 
 11,806 
 
 561
 
 5 
% 
 
 
 11,245 
 
 (96)
 
 (1)
% 
 
 
 11,341 
 
2012 vs. 2011
 
 
Noninterest expense increased $107.4 milli
on, or 6%, from 2011, and primarily reflected: 

$95.7 million, or 11%, increase in personn
el costs, primarily reflecting an increase
 in bonuses, commissions, and full-time 
equivalent employees, as well as increased salaries and benefits. 
 

$10.4 million, or 11%, increase in equi
pment, primarily reflecting the impact 
of depreciation from our in-store branch 
expansions and other technology investments. 
 

$9.3 million, or 5%, increase in other expense primarily refl
ecting higher litigation reserves, 
increased sponsorships and 
public relations expense, and an increase in the provision for mortgage representations and warranties. 
 
 Partially offset by: 
 

$9.4 million, or 12%, decline in deposit and other insurance expense. 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 
Noninterest expense increased
 $54.7 million, or 3%, from 2010, and primarily reflected: 

$93.6 million, or 12%, increase in personn
el costs, primarily reflecting an increase
 in salary and benefit-related expenses. 
 

$27.4 million, or 17%, increase in outsid
e data processing and other services, 
reflecting the costs a
ssociated with the 
conversion to a new debit card processor an
d the implementation of strategic initiatives. 
 

$9.2 million, or 16%, increase in marketing expe
nse, reflecting higher advertising costs. 
 
 Partially offset by: 
 

$21.0 million, or 54%, decrease in OREO and foreclosure 
expenses as OREO balances declined 42% in 2011. 

$19.9 million, or 20%, decrease in deposit and other insurance expense. 
39 
 

$17.6 million, or 20%, decrease in professional services, ref
lecting lower legal costs as collection activities declined and 
consulting expenses. 

$9.7 gain on the early extinguishment of debt related to
 the exchange of certain 
trust preferred securities. 
 
Provision for Income Taxes 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Significant Items 1 and 5, and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.) 
 
 
2012 versus 2011 
The provision for income taxes was $184.1 million for 2012 compared with a provision for income taxes of $164.6 million in 
2011. Both years included the benefits from tax-exempt income, ta
x-advantaged investments, and general business credits.  In pr
ior 
periods, we established a full valuation allowance against state 
deferred tax assets and state net operating loss carryforwards
 based on 
the uncertainty of forecasted state taxable income expected in applicable jurisdictions in order to utilize the state deferred 
tax asset and 
net operating loss carryforwards.  Based on current analysis of bot
h positive and negative evidence
 and projected forecasted st
ate 
taxable income, we believe that it is more likely than not that a portion of the state deferred tax asset and state net operati
ng loss 
carryforwards will be realized. As a result of 
this analysis, a net $21.3 million re
duction in the 2012 provision for income ta
xes was 
recorded.  At December 31, 2012, a valuation allowance of $61.8 million remained for certain state deferred tax assets and stat
e net 
operating loss carryforwards totaling $94.5 million that are not exp
ected to be realized within the carryforward periods.   
 
At December 31, 2012, we had a net deferred tax asset of $203.9 million. Based on both positive and negative evidence and our 
level of forecasted future taxable income, we determined that no 
impairment existed to the net deferred tax asset at December 3
1, 
2012. For regulatory capital purposes, there was no disallowed net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012, compared to a total
 
disallowed net deferred tax asset of $39.1 million at December 31, 2011.  
 
We file income tax returns 
with the IRS and various state, city
, and foreign jurisdictions. Federa
l income tax audits have been
 
completed for tax years through 2009.  We have 
appealed certain proposed adjustments re
sulting from the IRS ex
amination of our 
2006 and 2007 tax r
eturns.  In addition, we will app
eal certain proposed adjustments resulti
ng from the IRS examination of our 
2008 
and 2009 tax returns. We believe our positions
 related to such proposed adjustments ar
e correct and supported by applicable sta
tutes, 
regulations, and judicial authority, and intend to 
vigorously defend them.  During 2011, 
we entered into disc
ussions with the A
ppeals 
Division of the IRS for the 2006
 and 2007 tax returns. It is possible the ultima
te resolution of the proposed adjustments, if 
unfavorable, may be material to the results of operations in th
e period it occurs. Nevertheless, although no assurances can be 
given, we 
believe that the resolution of th
ese examinations will not, individually or in th
e aggregate, have a material adverse impact on
 our 
consolidated financial position. Various stat
e and other jurisdictions remain open to 
examination, including Kentucky, Indiana,
 
Michigan, Pennsylv
ania, West Virginia and Illinois. 
2011 versus 2010 
 
The provision for income taxes was $164.6 million for 2011 compared with a provision of $40.0 million in 2010. Both years 
included the benefits from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged inve
stments, and general business credits. In 2010, we entered int
o an 
asset monetization transaction that generated a tax benefit of $6
3.6 million. Also, in 2010, undist
ributed previously reported 
earnings 
of a foreign subsidiary of $142.3 million we
re distributed and an additional $49.8 m
illion of tax expense was recorded.  During
 2010, 
a $43.6 million net tax benefit was recognized, primarily reflecti
ng the increase in the net deferred tax asset relating to the
 assets 
acquired from the March 31, 2009 Franklin restructuring. 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT AND CAPITAL 
 
Risk awareness, identification and assessment, reporting, and activ
e management are key elements in overall risk management.  
We manage risk to an aggregate moderate-to-low risk profile th
rough a control framework and by 
monitoring and responding to 
identified potential risks.  Controls include, among others, effective segregation of duties, access, authorization and reconci
liation 
procedures, as well as staff education and a disciplined assessment process. 
We identify primary risks, and 
the sources of those risks, w
ithin each business unit.  We 
utilize Risk and Control Self-
Assessments (RCSA) to identify exposure risks.  Through this RCSA process, we continually assess the effectiveness of controls 
associated with the identified risk
s, regularly monitor risk profiles and material exposure to losses, and identify stress even
ts and 
scenarios to which we may be exposed.  Our chief risk officer is responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems of controls 
are in 
place for managing and monitoring risk across the Company. Potential risk concerns are shared with the Risk Management 
Committee, Risk Over
sight Committee, and the boar
d of directors, as appropriate. Our in
ternal audit department performs on-goin
g 
independent reviews of the risk management process and ensures th
e adequacy of documentation.  The results of these reviews are
 
reported regularly to the audit co
mmittee and board of directors.   
40 
 
We believe our primary risk
 exposures are credit, ma
rket, liquidity, operational, and comp
liance oriented.  Credit risk is the 
risk 
of loss due to adverse changes 
in a counterparty™s ability to meet
 their financial obligations unde
r agreed upon terms.  Market
 risk 
represents the risk of loss due to change
s in the market value of assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, exch
ange rates, 
and equity prices.  Liquidity risk arises
 from the possibility that fund
s may not be available to s
atisfy current or future com
mitments 
resulting from external macro market issues, investor and customer
 perception of financial strength, and events unrelated to us
, such as 
war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues.  In 
addition, the mix and maturity 
structure of Huntington™s b
alance 
sheet, amount of on-hand cash and unencumbered securities and the availability of contingent sources of funding, can have an im
pact 
on Huntington™s ability to satisfy current or
 future funding commitments. We manage liq
uidity risk at both the Bank and the par
ent 
company.  Operational risk arises from our 
inherent day-to-day operations 
that could result in losses due to human error, inade
quate or 
failed internal systems and controls, and 
external events.  Compliance risk exposes 
us to money penalties, enforcement actions 
or 
other sanctions as a result of nonconform
ance with laws, rules, and regulations 
that apply to the financial services industry. 
 
Some of the more significant processes used to manage and cont
rol credit, market, liquidity, operational, and compliance risks 
are 
described in the following paragraphs. 
 
Credit Risk  
 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a counterparty is no
t able to meet the agreed upon
 terms of the financial obligati
on. The 
majority of our credit risk is associated with lending activities, as the acceptance and management of credit risk is central t
o profitable 
lending.  We also have credit risk a
ssociated with our AFS securities portfolio 
(see Note 4 of the Notes 
to Consolidated Financial 
Statements)
.  We engage with other financial counterparties for a 
variety of purposes including investing, asset and liability 
management, mortgage banking, and for tr
ading activities.  While there is 
credit risk associated with derivative activity, we b
elieve 
this exposure is minimal.   
 
We continue to focus on the id
entification, monitoring, and managing of our cred
it risk.  In addition to
 the traditional credit
 risk 
mitigation strategies of credit policies an
d processes, market risk management activitie
s, and portfolio diversification, we us
e 
additional quantitative measuremen
t capabilities utilizing external data sources, enha
nced use of modeling technology, and inte
rnal 
stress testing processes.  Our portfolio 
management resources demonstrate our commitm
ent to maintaining an aggregate moderate-t
o-
low risk profile.  In our efforts to conti
nue to identify risk mitigation techniques, we
 have focused on product design feature
s, 
origination policies, and treatment strategies
 for delinquent or stressed borrowers.  
 
The maximum level of credit exposure to individual credit borr
owers is limited by policy guidelines based on the perceived risk
 
of each borrower or related group of borrowers.  All authority to grant commitments is delegated through the independent credit
 
administration function and is closely monito
red and regularly updated.  Concentration ri
sk is managed through limits on loan t
ype, 
geography, industry, and loan quality factors
.  We focus predominantly on
 extending credit to retail and commercial customers w
ith 
existing or expandable relationships within
 our primary banking markets
, although we will consider
 lending opportunities outsid
e our 
primary markets if we believe the associated risks are acceptable and aligned with strategic initiatives.  Although we offer a 
broad set 
of products, we continue to develop new 
lending products and opportunities.  Each of 
these new products and opportunities goes 
through a rigorous development 
and approval process prior to implementation to
 ensure our overall obje
ctive of maintaining an 
aggregate moderate-to-low risk portfolio profile.  
 
The checks and balances in the credit process and the independen
ce of the credit administration 
and risk management functions 
are designed to appropriately assess and sanction the level 
of credit risk being accepted, 
facilitate the early recognition of 
credit 
problems when they occur, and to provide fo
r effective problem asset management and reso
lution.  For example, we do not extend 
additional credit to delinquent borrowers 
except in certain circumstances
 that substantially improve our overall repayment or c
ollateral 
coverage position.  To that end, we continue to ex
pand resources in our risk management areas.   
 
Although credit quality improved 
in 2012, the weak residential 
real estate market and U.S. economy continued to negatively 
impact us and the financial services industry as a whole. We co
ntinued to experience higher than historical levels of delinquen
cies and 
NCOs in our loan portfolios.  The performance metrics associated 
with the CRE, residential mortgage, and home equity portfolios
 
continued to be the most significantly impacted portfolios as 
real estate prices remain substantially
 lower than pre-2008.  Add
itionally, 
continued high unemployment, along with
 other economic conditions, throughout 20
10-2012 slowed full recovery from the 2008-
2009 U.S. recession.  
 
Loan and Lease Credit Exposure Mix 
 
At December 31, 2012, our loans and leases totaled $40.7 billion, representing a $1.8 billion, or 5%, increase compared to $38.
9 
billion at December 31, 2011, primarily reflecting growth in the 
C&I portfolio, partially offset by
 a decline in the CRE portfo
lio 
reflecting the continued runoff in th
e noncore portfolio.  The C&I loan increase in
cluded the impacts related to a continuation
 of the 
growth in high quality loans originated over recent quarters and the purchase of a portfolio of high quality municipal equipmen
t 
leases.  Additionally, the FDIC-assisted Fidelity acquisition 
resulted in the addition of $523.9 million of loans.    
41 
 
 
Total commercial loans were $22.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and represented 56% of our total loan and lease credit 
exposure.  Our commercial loan portfolio is diversified along 
product type, customer size, and 
geography within our footprint, 
and is 
comprised of the following (
see Commercial Credit discussion)
:   
 
C&I loans
 Œ C&I loans and leases are made to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working 
capital needs, equipment purchases, or other projects.  The major
ity of these borrowers are custom
ers doing business within our
 
geographic regions.  C&I loans and leases are generally underwritte
n individually and secured with the assets of the company an
d/or 
the personal guarantee of the business owners
.  The financing of owner oc
cupied facilities is considered
 a C&I loan even though
 there 
is improved real estate as collateral.  This treatment is a result 
of the credit decision process, 
which focuses on cash flow f
rom 
operations of the business to repay the debt.  The operation, sa
le, rental, or refinancing of th
e real estate is not considered
 the primary 
repayment source for these types of loans.  As we expand our C&I 
portfolio, we have developed a ﬁverticalﬂ strategy to ensure t
hat 
new products or lending types are embedded
 within the structured, centralized Commerc
ial Lending area with designated experienc
ed 
credit officers.     
 
CRE loans
 Œ CRE loans consist of loans for income-producing real estate
 properties, real estate investment trusts, and real estate 
developers.  We mitigate our risk on these lo
ans by requiring collateral values that exce
ed the loan amount
 and underwriting th
e loan 
with projected cash flow in excess of the debt service requirement.  These loans are made to finance properties such as apartme
nt 
buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping cen
ters, and are repaid through cash flows related to the opera
tion, sale, 
or refinance of the property.   
 
Construction CRE loans
 Œ Construction CRE loans are loans to individuals, comp
anies, or developers used for the construction of 
a commercial or residential property for which repayment will be ge
nerated by the sale or permanent financing of the property. 
 Our 
construction CRE portfolio primarily consists of retail, reside
ntial (land, single family, and condominiums), office, and wareh
ouse 
project types.  Generally, these loans are for construction projects 
that have been presold or pr
eleased, or have secured perma
nent 
financing, as well as loans to real estate co
mpanies with significant equity invested 
in each project.  These loans are underwr
itten and 
managed by a specialized real estate lending group that actively 
monitors the construction phase and manages the loan disbursem
ents 
according to the predetermined construction schedule.   
 
Total consumer loans were $18.4 billion at 
December 31, 2012, and represented 44% 
of our total loan and lease credit exposure. 
 
The consumer portfolio was diversified pri
marily among automobile, home equity lo
ans and lines-of-credit, and residential mortg
ages 
(see Consumer Credit discussion)
.    
Automobile
 Œ Automobile loans are primarily co
mprised of loans made through automotive dealerships and include exposure in 
selected states outside of our primary bank
ing markets.  No state outside of our prim
ary banking market represented more than 5
% of 
our total automobile portfolio at December 31, 2012.  We have successfully implemented a loan securitization strategy to remain
 
within our established portfo
lio concentration limits.   
Home equity
 Œ Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and 
lines-of-credit.  This type of lending, which is secured 
by a first-lien or junior-lien on the borrow
er™s residence,
 allows customers to borrow agains
t the equity in their home.  Produ
cts 
include closed-end loans which are generally fixed-rate with 
principal and interest payments, and variable-rate, interest-only 
lines-of-
credit which do not require payment of principal during the 10-yea
r revolving period of the line-of-credit.  Applications are 
underwritten centrally in conjunctio
n with an automated underwritin
g system.  The home equity consists of both first-lien and j
unior-
lien loans and lines-of-credit with underwriting criteria based on
 minimum credit scores, debt-to-income ratios, and LTV ratios
.  
Residential mortgages
 Œ Residential mortgages represent loans to consumers for the purchase or refinance of a residence.  These 
loans are generally financed over a 15-year to 30-year term, and in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their prim
ary 
residence.  All applications are underwritten centrally and do 
not originate residential mortgage
s that allow negative amortiza
tion or 
allow the borrower multiple payment options.  Al
so, all residential mortgages are origina
ted based on a completed full appraisa
l.  
Other consumer loans/leases
 Œ Primarily consists of consumer loans not secured by real estate, including personal unsecured 
loans. 
 
 
 
42 
 
The table below provides the composition of our total loan and lease portfolio: 
Table 9 - Loan and Lease
 Portfolio Composition
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
 
2009  
 
2008  
Commercial:
(1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
 
$
 16,971 
 42
%
$
 14,699 
 38
% 
$
 13,063 
 34 
% 
$
 12,888 
 35 
% 
$
 13,541 
 33 
% 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction
 
 
 648 
 2
 580 
 1
 
 
 650 
 2 
 
 
 1,469 
 4 
 
 
 2,080 
 5 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 4,751 
 12
 5,246 
 13
 
 
 6,001 
 16 
 
 
 6,220 
 17 
 
 
 8,018 
 20 
 
 
Total commercial real estate 
 
 5,399 
 14
 5,826 
 14
 
 
 6,651 
 18 
 
 
 7,689 
 21 
 
 
 10,098 
 25 
 
Total commercial 
 
 22,370 
 56
 20,525 
 52
 
 
 19,714 
 52 
 
 
 20,577 
 56 
 
 
 23,639 
 58 
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile
(2) 
 
 4,634 
 11
 4,458 
 11
 
 
 5,614 
 15 
 
 
 3,390 
 9 
 
 
 4,464 
 11 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 8,335 
 20
 8,215 
 21
 
 
 7,713 
 20 
 
 
 7,563 
 21 
 
 
 7,557 
 18 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 4,970 
 12
 5,228 
 13
 
 
 4,500 
 12 
 
 
 4,510 
 12 
 
 
 4,761 
 12 
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 419 
 1
 498 
 3
 
 
 566 
 1 
 
 
 751 
 2 
 
 
 671 
 1 
 
Total consumer 
 
 18,358 
 44
 18,399 
 48
 
 
 18,393 
 48 
 
 
 16,214 
 44 
 
 
 17,453 
 42 
 
Total loans and leases 
$
 40,728 
 100
%
$
 38,924 
 100
% 
$
 38,107 
 100 
% 
$
 36,791 
 100 
% 
$
 41,092 
 100 
% 
 
 
 
(1) 
As defined by regulatory guidance, there were no commercial loans outstanding that would be considered a concentration of lendi
ng to a particular 
industry or group of industries. 
  
(2) 
2011 included a decrease of $1.3 billion resulting from the transfer of automobile loans to loans held for a sale reflecting an
 automobile securitization 
transaction completed in 2012.  2010 included an increase of $0.5
 billion resulting from the adoption of a new accounting stand
ard to consolidate a 
previously off-balance sheet automobile loan securitization transaction. 
As shown in the table above, our loan portfolio is diversified 
by consumer and commercial credit.  We designate specific loan 
types, collateral types, and loan structures as part of our cred
it concentration policy.  C&I lendi
ng by segment, specific limi
ts for CRE 
primary project types, loans secured by residential real estate, sh
ared national credit exposure, and unsecured lending represe
nt 
examples of specifically tracked components of
 our concentration management process.  Our concentration management process is 
approved by our board of directors and is 
one of the strategies utilized 
to ensure a high quality, well diversified portfolio t
hat is 
consistent with our overall objectiv
e of maintaining an aggregate moderate-to-low risk profile. 
 
The table below provides our total 
loan and lease portfo
lio segregated by the primary type
 of collateral securing the loan or l
ease: 
 
Table 10 - Total Loan and Leas
e Portfolio by 
Collateral Type 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
Secured loans: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Real estate - commercial 
$
 9,128 
 22 
%
$
 9,557 
 25
% 
$
 10,389 
 27 
% 
$
 11,286 
 31 
%
$
 13,121 
 32 
% 
 
Real estate - consumer 
 13,305 
 33 
 13,444 
 35
 
 12,214 
 32 
 
 12,176 
 33 
 
 12,318 
 30 
 
 
Vehicles 
 6,659 
 16 
 6,021 
 15
 
 7,134 
 19 
 
 4,600 
 13 
 
 6,063 
 15 
 
 
Receivables/Inventory 
 5,178 
 13 
 4,450 
 11
 
 3,763 
 10 
 
 3,582 
 10 
 
 3,915 
 10 
 
 
Machinery/Equipment 
 2,749 
 7 
 1,994 
 5
 
 1,766 
 5 
 
 1,772 
 5 
 
 1,916 
 5 
 
 
Securities/Deposits 
 
 826 
 2 
 800 
 2
 
 
 734 
 2 
 
 
 1,145 
 3 
 
 
 862 
 2 
 
 
Other 
 
 1,090 
 3 
 1,018 
 3
 
 
 990 
 2 
 
 
 1,124 
 2 
 
 
 1,231 
 2 
 
Total secured loans and leases 
 38,935 
 96 
 37,284 
 96
 
 36,990 
 97 
 
 35,685 
 97 
 
 39,426 
 96 
 
Unsecured loans and leases 
 
 1,793 
 4 
 1,640 
 4
 
 
 1,117 
 3 
 
 
 1,106 
 3 
 
 
 1,666 
 4 
 
Total loans and leases 
$
 40,728 
 100 
%
$
 38,924 
 100
% 
$
 38,107 
 100 
% 
$
 36,791 
 100 
%
$
 41,092 
 100 
% 
 
43 
 
Commercial Credit 
 
The primary factors considered in commercial credit approvals are the financial strength of the borrower, assessment of the 
borrower™s management capabilities, cash flows from operations, in
dustry sector trends, type and sufficiency of collateral, typ
e of 
exposure, transaction structure, and the general economic outlook
.  While these are the primary factors considered, there are a
 number 
of other factors that may be considered in the decision proce
ss.  We utilize a centralized preview and senior loan approval com
mittee, 
led by our chief credit officer.  The risk rating 
(see next paragraph) 
and complexity of the credit determines the threshold for approval 
of the senior loan committee with a minimum 
credit exposure of $10.0 million.   For 
loans not requiring senior loan committee 
approval, with the exception of small busin
ess loans, credit officers who understand each local region and are experienced in t
he 
industries and loan structures of the reques
ted credit exposure are involved in all lo
an decisions and have the primary credit 
authority.  
For small business loans, we utilize a centr
alized loan approval process for standard produ
cts and structures. 
 In this central
ized 
decision environment, certain individuals who understand each lo
cal region may make credit-extension decisions to preserve our 
commitment to the comm
unities we operate in.  In additi
on to disciplined and consistent judgmental factors, a sophisticated cre
dit 
scoring process is used as a primary evaluation tool in the d
etermination of approving a loan w
ithin the centralized loan appro
val 
process.  
 
 
In commercial lending, on-going credit management is dependent on
 the type and nature of the lo
an. We monitor all significant 
exposures on an on-going basis.  All commercial credit extens
ions are assigned internal risk ratings reflecting the borrower™s 
PD and 
LGD. This two-dimensional rating methodology
 provides granularity in the portfolio ma
nagement process. The PD is rated and 
applied at the borrower level. The LGD is 
rated and applied based on the specific ty
pe of credit extension
 and the quality and 
lien 
position associated with the underlying collateral.  The interna
l risk ratings are assessed at origination and updated at each 
periodic 
monitoring event. There is also extensive macro portfolio manage
ment analysis on an on-going ba
sis.  We continually review and 
adjust our risk-rating criteria based on actual experience, which prov
ides us with the current ri
sk level in the portfolio and 
is the basis 
for determining an appropriate AC
L amount for the commercial portfolio.  A centra
lized portfolio management team monitors and 
reports on the performance of the entire commercial portfolio, in
cluding small business loans, to provide consistent oversight.
   
 
In addition to the initial credit an
alysis conducted during the approval process, 
our Credit Review group performs testing to 
provide an independent review and assessment of the quality and / or
 risk of new loan originations.  This group is part of our 
Risk 
Management area, and conducts portfolio re
views on a risk-based cycle 
to evaluate individual loans,
 validate risk ratings, as w
ell as 
test the consistency of credit processes.   
 
Our standardized loan grading system c
onsiders many components that directly
 correlate to loan qu
ality and likelihood of 
repayment, one of which is guaran
tor support.  On an annual basis, or more frequently if warranted, we consider, among other th
ings, 
the guarantor™s reputation and creditworthiness, along with various
 key financial metrics such as liquidity and net worth, assu
ming 
such information is available.  Our assessment of the guarantor™s 
credit strength, or lack thereo
f, is reflected in our risk ra
tings for 
such loans, which is directly tied to, and an integral component of, our ALLL methodology.  When a loan goes to impaired status
, 
viable guarantor support is considered in the de
termination of the recognition of a loan loss.   
 
If our assessment of the guarantor™s credit st
rength yields an inherent capacity to pe
rform, we will seek repayment from the 
guarantor as part of the collection process and have done so successfully.  However, we do not formally track the repayment suc
cess 
from guarantors. 
 
Substantially all loans categor
ized as Classified 
(see Note 3 of Notes to Consol
idated Financial Statements)
 are managed by our 
SAD.  The SAD is a specialized 
group of credit profe
ssionals that handle the day-to-day
 management of workouts, commercial 
recoveries, and problem loan sales.  Its re
sponsibilities include developing and impl
ementing action plans, assessing risk rati
ngs, and 
determining the appropriateness of the allowance, the accrual statu
s, and the ultimate collectability 
of the Classified loan po
rtfolio.    
 
C&I PORTFOLIO 
 
The C&I portfolio is comprised 
of loans to businesses where the source of repaym
ent is associated with the on-going operations 
of the business.  Generally, the loans are secured with the financing of the borrower™s assets, such as equipment, accounts rec
eivable, 
and/or inventory.  In many cases, the 
loans are secured by real estate, although the operation, sale, or refinancing of the rea
l estate is 
not a primary source of repayment for the loan.  For loans secured by real estate, appropriate appraisals are obtained at origi
nation and 
updated on an as needed basis in compliance with regulatory requirements.  
 
 
 
44 
 
There were no commercial loan segmen
ts considered an industry or
 geographic concentration of le
nding.  Curren
tly, higher-risk 
segments of the C&I portfolio include loans to borrowers suppo
rting the home building industry
, contractors, and leveraged lend
ing.  
We manage the risks inherent in this po
rtfolio through origination 
policies, a defined loan concentration policy with establish
ed limits, 
on-going loan level reviews and portfolio level reviews, recourse
 requirements, and continuous po
rtfolio risk management activi
ties.  
Our origination policies for this portfolio include loan product-type specific policies such as LTV and debt service coverage r
atios, as 
applicable.   
While some C&I borrowers have been challenged by the con
tinued weakness in the economy, problem loans have trended 
downward, reflecting a combination of proactive ri
sk identification and effec
tive workout strategies implemented by our SAD.  
Nevertheless, some borrowers may no longer have sufficient capita
l to withstand the extended stre
ss and comply with the origina
l 
terms of their credit agreements.  We con
tinue to focus attention on 
the portfolio management pro
cess to proactively identify 
borrowers that may be faci
ng financial difficulty to 
assess all potential solutions.   
 
CRE PORTFOLIO 
 
We manage the risks inherent in this portfolio specific to CR
E lending, focusing on the quality of the developer, and the speci
fics 
associated with each project.  Generally, we:  (1) limit our loans to 80% of the appraised value of the commercial real estate 
at 
origination, (2) require net operating cash flows to be 125% of re
quired interest and principal payments, and (3) if the commer
cial real 
estate is nonowner occupied, 
require that at least 
50% of the space of the project be prel
eased.  We actively monitor both geog
raphic 
and project-type concentrations and performance metrics of all CRE loan
 types, with a focus on higher-risk classes.  Both macro
-level 
and loan-level stress-test scenarios based on existing and forecast market conditions are part of the on-going portfolio manage
ment 
process for the CRE portfolio.  
 
Dedicated real estate professionals originated 
the majority of the portfolio, with th
e remainder obt
ained from 
prior bank 
acquisitions.  Appraisals are obtained from ap
proved vendors, and are reviewed by an 
internal appraisal review group comprised 
of 
certified appraisers to ensure the quality of the valuation used in
 the underwriting process.  Th
e portfolio is diversified by 
project type 
and loan size, and this diversification represents a significant por
tion of the credit risk manageme
nt strategies employed for 
this 
portfolio.  Subsequent to the origination of the loan, the Credit 
Review group performs testing to
 provide an independent revie
w and 
assessment of the quality of the underwriting a
nd/or risk of new loan originations.   
 
Appraisal values are obtained in conjunction 
with all originations and renewa
ls, and on an as needed 
basis, in compliance with 
regulatory requirements.  We continue to perform on-going port
folio level reviews within the CRE
 portfolio.  These reviews gene
rate 
action plans based on occupancy levels or sales volume associated
 with the projects being reviewed.  Property values are update
d 
using appraisals on a regular basis to ensu
re appropriate decisions regarding the on-g
oing management of the portfolio reflect 
the 
changing market conditions.  This
 highly individualized process re
quires working closely with 
all of our borrowers, as well as 
an in-
depth knowledge of CRE project lending and the market environment.  
 
In 2010, we segregated our CRE portfolio 
into core and noncore segments.  We believe segregating noncore CRE from core CRE 
improved our ability to understand the nat
ure, performance prospects, and problem resolu
tion opportunities of these segments, t
hus 
allowing us to continue to deal proactiv
ely with any emerging credit issues.  We ha
ve not subsequently originated any noncore C
RE 
loans. 
 
A CRE loan is generally considered co
re when the borrower is an experienced
, well-capitalized developer in our Midwest 
footprint, and had either an established meaningful relationship with us that generated an acceptable return on capital or demo
nstrated 
the prospect of becoming one.  The core CRE portfolio was $3.9 billion at December 31, 2012, representing 73% of total CRE loan
s.  
The performance of the core portfo
lio has met our expectations based on the consis
tency of the asset quality metrics within the
 
portfolio.  Based on our extensive project 
level assessment process, including forwar
d-looking collateral valuations, we contin
ue to 
believe the credit quality of the core
 portfolio is stable.  Loans are not reclassi
fied between the core and noncore segments b
ased on 
performance. 
 
 
 
45 
 
Credit quality data regarding the ACL and NALs, segregated by core CRE loans and noncore CRE loans, is presented in the 
following table: 
 
Table 11 - Commercial Real Estate - Core vs. Noncore Portfolios
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
Ending 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nonaccrual 
 
 
Balance 
 
Prior NCOs 
 
ACL $ 
 
ACL % 
 
Credit Mark (1)
 
Loans 
Total core 
$
 
 3,937 
$
 21 
$
 100 
2.54
%
3.06
%
$
 41 
N
oncore - SAD (2) 
 
 597 
 145 
 129 
21.61
36.93
 82 
N
oncore - Other 
 
 865 
 18 
 61 
7.05
8.95
 4 
Total noncore
 
 1,462 
 163 
 190 
13.00
21.72
 86 
Total commercial real estate
$
 
 5,399 
$
 184 
$
 290 
5.37
%
8.49
%
$
 127 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
Ending 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nonaccrual 
 
 
Balance 
 
Prior NCOs 
 
ACL $ 
 
ACL % 
 
Credit Mark (1)
 
Loans 
Total core 
$ 
 3,978 
 
$ 
 25 
 
$ 
 125 
 
3.14
% 
 
3.75 
% 
 
$ 
 26 
 
N
oncore - SAD (2) 
 
 735 
 
 
 253 
 
 
 182 
 
24.76
 
44.03 
 
 
 195 
 
N
oncore - Other 
 
 1,113 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 88 
 
7.91
 
9.29 
 
 
 9 
Total noncore 
 
 1,848 
 
 
 270 
 
 
 270 
 
14.61
 
 
25.50 
 
 
 
 204 
Total commercial real estate 
$ 
 5,826 
 
$
 295 
 
$ 
 395 
 
6.78
% 
 
11.27 
% 
 
$ 
 230 
(1)
Calculated as (Prior NCOs + ACL $) / (Ending Balance + Prior NCOs)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(
2
)
 
N
oncore loans are managed by SAD, the area responsible for managing loans and relationships designated as Classified loans.
 
As shown in the above table, the ending balance of the CRE po
rtfolio at December 31, 2012, declined $0.4 billion, or 7%, 
compared with December 31, 2011.  The majority of this decline occurred in the noncore segment, and was a result of payoffs and
 
NCOs as we actively focus on the noncore portfolio to reduce ou
r overall CRE exposure.  This reduction demonstrates our continu
ed 
commitment to achieving a materially lower ri
sk profile in the CRE portfo
lio, consistent with ou
r overall objective of maintain
ing an 
aggregate moderate-to-low risk profile.  We 
will continue to support our core develo
per customers as appropriate, however, we d
o not 
believe that significant additional CRE activity is 
appropriate given the current market conditions. 
 
Also as shown above, substantial reserves for the noncore portfolio have been established.  At December 31, 2012, the ACL 
related to the noncore portfolio was 13.00%.
  The combination of the ex
isting ACL and prior NCOs represents the total credit ac
tions 
taken on each segment of the portfolio.  From this data, we 
calculate a credit mark 
that provides a consistent measurement of t
he 
cumulative credit actions taken against a sp
ecific portfolio segment.  The 36.93% credit mark associated with the SAD-managed 
noncore portfolio is an indicator of the proactive portfol
io management strategy empl
oyed for this portfolio.   
 
Consumer Credit 
 
Consumer credit approvals are based on, among other factors, the 
financial strength and payment hi
story of the borrower, type o
f 
exposure, and the transaction st
ructure.  Consumer credit decisions are generally made in a centralized environment utilizing d
ecision 
models.   Importantly, certain individuals wh
o understand each local region have the 
authority to make credit extension decisio
ns to 
preserve our focus on the local communities 
we operate in.  Each credit extension is a
ssigned a specific PD and LGD. The PD is 
generally based on the borrower™s most recent credit bureau score
 (FICO), which we update quarterly, while the LGD is related t
o the 
type of collateral and the LTV ratio asso
ciated with the cr
edit extension.   
 
In consumer lending, credit risk is managed from a segment (i.e
., loan type, collateral position, geography, etc.) and vintage 
performance analysis. All portfolio segments
 are continuously monitored for changes in
 delinquency trends and other asset quali
ty 
indicators.   We make extensive use of portfolio assessment models
 to continuously monitor the quality of the portfolio, which 
may 
result in changes to future origination st
rategies.  The on-going analysis and review 
process results in a determination of an 
appropriate ALLL amount for our cons
umer loan portfolio.  The independent risk ma
nagement group has a consumer process review 
component to ensure the effectiveness and effi
ciency of the consumer
 credit processes.   
 
 
 
46 
 
Collection action is initiated as needed through a centrally managed collection and recovery function. The collection group 
employs a series of collection methodologies designed to maintain
 a high level of effectivenes
s while maximizing efficiency. In
 
addition to the consumer loan portfo
lio, the collection group is responsible for 
collection activity on all sold and securitize
d consumer 
loans and leases.  Collection practices include a single contact point 
for the majority of the residential real estate secured 
portfolios.    
 
Effective with the 2012 third quarter, we 
identified certain loans within the consum
er portfolio that met the definition of 
collateral dependent as defined by regulatory guidance as the borr
owers had not reaffirmed their debt discharged in a Chapter 7
 
bankruptcy filing.  The bankruptcy court™s disc
harge of the borrower™s debt is considered
 a concession when the discharged debt
 is not 
reaffirmed, and as such, the loans were classified as TDRs, placed on nonaccrual status, and written down to collateral value, 
less 
anticipated selling costs.  Previously, we recorded the charge-off wh
en the loan reached 60-days pa
st due and did not classify 
these 
loans as TDRs.  Many of these loans were current, with many borro
wers having paid according to the contractual terms for severa
l 
years.  In 2012, this change increased NCOs by $34.6 million,
 NALs by $60.1 million, and TDRs by $79.5 million across the 
automobile, residential mortgage, and home equity portfolios.  

 
AUTOMOBILE PORTFOLIO 
 
Our strategy in the automobile lo
an and lease portfolio continued 
to focus on high quality borrow
ers as measured by both FICO 
and internal custom scores, combined 
with appropriate LTV™s, terms, and profitabilit
y.  Our strategy and operational capabiliti
es allow 
us to appropriately manage the origination quality across the entire 
portfolio, including our newe
r markets.  Although increase
d 
origination volume and the entering new markets
 can be associated with increased risk levels, we believe our strategy and opera
tional 
capabilities significantly mi
tigate these risks. 
   
We have continued to consis
tently execute our value pro
position and take advantage of av
ailable market opportunities.  
Importantly, we have maintained our high cred
it quality standard while growing the portfo
lio.  We have developed and implemente
d a 
loan securitization strategy to ensure
 we remain within our established 
portfolio concentration limits.   
 
During 2012, a total of $2.3 billi
on of automobile loans were tran
sferred to trusts in two se
parate securitization transactions
.  
Additional information re
garding these securitization transa
ctions is located in Note 21 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financial
 
Statements.   
 
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE SECURED PORTFOLIOS 
 
The properties securing our residential mort
gage and home equity portfolios are primari
ly located within our geographic footpri
nt. 
The continued stress on home prices has caused the performance in these portfolios to remain weaker than historical levels.  Th
e 
residential-secured portfolio orig
inations continue to be of high
 quality, with the majority of
 the negative credit impact comi
ng from 
loans originated in 2006 and earlier.  We con
tinue to evaluate all of our policies and pr
ocesses associated with managing these
 
portfolios.  Our loss mitigation and for
eclosure activities are consolidated
 in one location under commo
n management.  This str
ucture 
allows us to focus on effectively helping our customers with
 appropriate solutions for their specific circumstances.   
 
Table 12 - Selected Home Equity and Residential Mortgage 
Portfolio Data
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Equity
Residential Mortgage 
 
Secured by first-lien
 
Secured by junior-lien
 
 
12/31/12
 
12/31/11
12/31/12
12/31/11
12/31/12
12/31/11
Ending balance 
$4,380
 
$3,815
$3,955
$4,400
$4,970
$5,228
Portfolio weighted average LTV ratio
(1)
 
71%
 
71%
81%
81%
76%
77%
Portfolio weighted average FICO score
(2)
 
755
 
749 
741
734 
738
731 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home Equity
Residential Mortgage (3) 
 
Secured by first-lien
Secured by junior-lien
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 
2012
 
2011 
2012
2011 
2012
2011 
Originations 
$1,665
 
$1,900
$559
$799
$1,019
$1,508
Origination weighted average LTV ratio
(1)
 
72%
 
71%
80%
82%
84%
82%
Origination weighted average FICO 
score
(2)
 
771
 
769 
756
762 
754
759 
 
 
47 
 
(1) The LTV ratios for home equity loans and home equity lines-of-credit are cumulative and reflect the balance of any 
senior loans.  LTV ratios reflect collateral values at the time of loan origination.
 
(2) Portfolio weighted average FICO scores reflect currently updated customer credit scores whereas origination 
weighted average FICO scores reflect the customer credit scores at the time of loan origination. 
(3)   Represents only owned-portfolio originations. 
 
Home Equity Portfolio 
 
Our home equity portfolio (loans 
and lines-of-credit) cons
ists of both first-lien and junior
-lien mortgage loans with underwrit
ing 
criteria based on minimum credit scores, debt-to-income ratios, an
d LTV ratios.  We offer closed-e
nd home equity loans which ar
e 
generally fixed-rate with principal and interest payments, and 
variable-rate interest-only hom
e equity lines-of-credit which do
 not 
require payment of principal during the 10-year revolving period
 of the line-of-credit.  Applications are underwritten centrall
y in 
conjunction with an automated underwriting system.   
 
Given the low interest rate environment over the past several 
years, many borrowers have utilized the line-of-credit home equit
y 
product as the primary source of financing their home versus resi
dential mortgages.  During 2012, 75% of our home equity portfo
lio 
originations were secured by a first-lien mortgage.  As a resu
lt, the proportion of the home equity
 portfolio secured by a firs
t-lien has 
increased significantly over the past three 
years, positively impacting the portfolio™s 
risk profile.  At December 31, 2012, 53
% of our 
total home equity portfolio was secured by first-lien mortgages. 
 The first-lien position, combined
 with continued high average
 FICO 
scores, significantly reduces the PD associated with these loans.   
 
We focus on high quality borrowers primaril
y located within our footprint
.  Further, we actively manage the extension of credit
 
and the amount of credit extended throu
gh a combination of criteria including fina
ncial position, debt-to-income policies, and 
LTV 
policy limits.   The combination of 
high quality borrowers as measured by financ
ial condition and FICO score, as well as the 
concentration of first-lien position loans, provides a high de
gree of confidence regarding the performance of the 2009-2012 
originations. Because we focus on developing complete relationships with our customers, many of our home equity borrowers utili
ze 
other products and services.  
Also, the majority of ou
r home equity line-of-cre
dit borrowers consistently 
pay more than the min
imum 
payment required in any given month.   
 
We believe we have underwritten cr
edit conservatively within this 
portfolio.  We have not orig
inated home equity loans or lines
-
of-credit with an LTV at origination greater 
than 100%, except for infrequen
t situations with high qua
lity borrowers.  However,
 
declines in housing prices have decreased 
the value of the collateral for 
this portfolio and have caused a portion of the portf
olio to 
have an LTV greater than 100%.  These higher
 LTV ratios are directly correlated with bo
rrower payment patter
ns and are a focus 
of 
our Loss Mitigation and Home Saver groups.  E
ffective in the 2012 third quarter, we no 
longer originate juni
or-lien loans with 
an LTV 
greater than 90%.  
 
Real estate market values at the time of origination directly a
ffect the amount of credit extended and, in the event of default
, 
subsequent changes in these values impact the severity of losses.    We obtain a property valuation for every loan or line-of-c
redit as 
part of the origination process, and the va
luation is reviewed by a real estate prof
essional in conjunction with the credit und
erwriting 
process.  The type of property valuation 
obtained is based on credit parameters, and a majority of these valuations are based o
n 
complete walkthrough apprais
als.  We believe an AVM estimate with a signed propert
y inspection is an appropriate valuation sour
ce 
for a portion of our home equity lending activities.  This va
luation policy, along with our other credit policies, are re-evalu
ated on an 
on-going basis with the intent of ensuring
 complete independence in the requesting an
d reviewing of real estate valuations asso
ciated 
with loan decisions.  We upda
te values as appropriate, an
d in compliance with applicable re
gulations, particularly for loans id
entified 
as higher risk.  Loans are identified as hi
gher risk based on performance indicators 
and the updated values are utilized to fac
ilitate our 
portfolio management processes, as well as 
our workout and loss mitigation functions.   
 
We continue to make origination policy ad
justments based on our assessment of an appropriate risk profile and industry actions,
 
as well as the recently issued Basel III NPRs 
(see Capital section).
  In addition to origination policy adjustments, we take actions, as 
necessary, to manage the risk profile of
 this portfolio.  We believe our Credit Risk Management systems allow for effective por
tfolio 
analysis and segmentation to identify the highest risk exposures in
 the portfolio.  Our disclos
ures regarding lien position and
 FICO 
distribution are examples of segmentation analysis.    
 
 
 
48 
 
We continue to identify situations where borrowers make a purposef
ul financial decision to stop 
making required payments on the
 
junior-lien loan, and in some cases, the fi
rst-lien loan.  This strategic default scenario is generally associated with borrowe
rs that have 
very limited or no history of delinquency. 
 These accounts also tend to migrate quickl
y from a current status to charge-off wit
hout 
exhibiting the historical behaviors at each delinquency stage.  The resulting increase in the relative speed of the migration f
rom current 
status to charge-off represe
nts a negative impact to the long
er term performance of the portfo
lio.  Although the collateral val
ue 
assessment is an important component of the overall credit risk an
alysis, there are very few instances of available equity in j
unior-lien 
default situations.  Further, effective in 201
2, any junior-lien loan associated with a nonaccruing first-lien loan is also pla
ced on 
nonaccrual status.    
 
Within the home equity line-of-credit portfo
lio, the standard product is a 10-year inte
rest-only draw period with a 20-year ful
ly 
amortizing term at the end of the draw period.  Prior to 2007, th
e standard product was a 10-year 
draw period with a balloon pa
yment, 
while subsequent originations convert to 
a 20-year amortizing loan structure.  After the 10-year revolving period, the borrower
 must 
reapply to extend the existing structure or
 begin repaying the debt in a traditional 
term structure.  The pri
ncipal and interes
t payment 
associated with the term structure will be high
er than the interest-only payment, resu
lting in ﬁmaturityﬂ risk.  This maturity 
risk is 
embedded in the portfolio which we address with proactive contact 
strategies beginning one year pri
or to maturity.  In certain 
circumstances, our Home Saver group is able to provide payment 
and structure relief to borrowers 
experiencing significant finan
cial 
hardship associated with th
e payment adjustment.   
 
The table below summarizes our home equity
 line-of-credit portfolio by maturity date: 
 
Table 13 - Maturity Schedule of Home Equity Line-of-Credit Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More than 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
1 Year or Less
1 to 2 years 
2 to 3 years 
3 to 4 years 
4 years 
Total 
 
Secured by first-lien 
$ 
44 
$
59 
$
35 
$
 ---
$ 
 2,193 
$ 
 2,331 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
234 
 
251 
 
244 
 
146 
 
 2,436 
 
 3,311 
Total home equity line-of-credit 
$ 
278 
$
310 
$
279 
$
146 
$ 
 4,629 
$ 
 5,642 
 
Historically, less than 30% of our home equity lines-of-credit that are one year or less from maturity actually reach the matur
ity 
date, and we anticipate this percen
tage will decline in future peri
ods as our proactive approach to 
managing maturity risk cont
inues to 
evolve. 
 
Residential Mortgages Portfolio
 
We focus on higher quality borrowers and underwrite all applications
 centrally.  We do not originate residential mortgages that
 
allow negative amortization or allow the borrower multiple payment op
tions.  We will continue to evaluate the impact of the rec
ently 
issued Basel III NPRs on our residential mortgage origination policies.    
 
All residential mortgages are originated based on a completed fu
ll appraisal during the credit underwriting process.  We update
 
values on a regular basis in complian
ce with applicable regulations to facilitate our portfolio management, as well as our work
out and 
loss mitigation functions. 
 
Generally, our practice is to sell a significa
nt portion of our fixed-rate originations 
in the secondary market.  As such, at 
December 31, 2012, 50% of our total residential mortgage portfolio were ARMs.  These ARMs primarily consist of a fixed-rate of 
interest for the first 3 to 5 years, and then adjust annually.   At December 31, 2012, ARM loans that were expected to have rat
es reset 
through 2015 totaled $1.5 billi
on.  These loans scheduled to re
set are primarily associated with
 loans originated subsequent to
 2007, 
and as such, are not subject to the most si
gnificant declines in und
erlying property value
.
 Given the quality of our borrowers, the 
relatively low current interest rates, and the 
results of our continued analysis (includi
ng possible impacts of changes in inte
rest rates), 
we believe that we have a relatively limited expo
sure to ARM reset risk.  No
netheless, we have taken actions to mitigate our ri
sk 
exposure.  We initiate borrower contact at least six months prior to the interest rate resetting, and have been successful in c
onverting 
many ARMs to fixed-rate loans through this process.  Given 
the relatively low current interest rates, many fixed-rate products 
currently offer a better interest rate to our ARM borrowers.   
 
 
 
49 
 
Several government programs continued to impact the residential 
mortgage portfolio, including va
rious refinance programs such 
as HAMP and HARP, which positively affected th
e availability of credit for the industry.  Du
ring the year ended December 31, 20
12, 
we closed $810 million in HARP residen
tial mortgages and $19 million in HAMP reside
ntial mortgages.  The HARP residential 
mortgage loans are considered current and ar
e either part of our residential mortgage 
portfolio or serviced for others.  The HA
MP 
refinancings are associated with residential mortgages that are serviced for others.  We are subject to repurchase risk associa
ted with 
residential mortgage loans sold in the sec
ondary market.  An appropriate level of re
serve for representati
ons and warranties re
lated to 
residential mortgage loans sold has be
en established to address this repurcha
se risk inherent in the portfolio 
(see Operational Risk 
discussion). 
 
 
 
Credit Quality  
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial
 Statements.) 
 
We believe the most meaningful way to asse
ss overall credit quality performance is 
through an analysis of credit quality 
performance ratios.  This approach forms the basis of most of 
the discussion in the sections immediately following: NPAs and NA
Ls, 
TDRs, ACL, and NCOs.  In addition, we utilize delinquency rates
, risk distribution and migrati
on patterns, and product segmenta
tion 
in the analysis of our 
credit quality performance. 
 
Credit quality performance in 2012 reflected 
overall continued improvement.    NALs 
declined 25% to $407.6 million at 
December 31, 2012, compared to December 31, 2011, despite the impact of $60.1 million of NAL additions as a result of Chapter 7
 
bankruptcy loans.  NCOs declined 22% compared to the prior year
 despite the $34.6 impact of NCOs related to Chapter 7 bankruptc
y 
loans.  Commercial criticized and classified 
loans declined significantly reflecting the 
continued improvement in the commercia
l 
portfolio.  The ACL to total lo
ans ratio declined to 1.99% and our ACL coverage
 ratios improved as a result of asset quality 
improvement. 
 
NPAs, NALs, and TDRs 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 3 
of the Notes to Consolidat
ed Financial 
Statements.)  
NPAs and NALs 
 
NPAs consist of (1) NALs, which represent loans and leases no lo
nger accruing interest, (2) impaired loans held for sale, (3) 
OREO properties, and (4) other NPAs.  Any loan in our portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies descri
bed 
below when collection of principal or interest is 
in doubt.  Also, wh
en a borrower with discharged
 non-reaffirmed debt in a Cha
pter 7 
bankruptcy is identified and the loan is determined to be collateral dependent, the consumer loan is placed on nonaccrual statu
s. 
 
C&I and CRE loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 90-days past due. With the exception of residential mortgage loans 
guaranteed by government organizations which continue to accrue interest, residential mortgage loans are placed on nonaccrual s
tatus 
at 150-days past due.  First-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equ
ity 
loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due or when the related first-lien loan has been identifi
ed as 
nonaccrual.  Automobile and other consumer loans are gene
rally charged-off when the loan is 120-days past due. 
 
 When interest accruals are suspended, accrued interest income is reversed with current year accruals charged to earnings and 
prior year amounts generally charged-off as a credit loss.  When, in our judgment, the borrower™s ability to make required inte
rest and 
principal payments has resume
d and collectability is no longer in
 doubt, the loan or lease is 
returned to accrual status. 
 
 
 
50 
 
The table reflects period-end NALs and NPAs detail for each of the last five years: 
 
Table 14 - Nonaccrual Loans and Leases and Nonperforming Assets 
 
 
 
At December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
N
onaccrual loans and leases:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
 
$
 90,705
$
 201,846 
 
$
 346,720
 
$ 
 578,414 
 
$ 
 932,648
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 127,128
 229,889 
 
 
 363,692
 
 
 935,812 
 
 
 445,717
 
 
Automobile 
 
 7,823
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Residential mortgages 
 
 122,452
 68,658 
 
 
 45,010
 
 
 362,630 
 
 
 98,951
 
 
Home equity 
 
 59,525
 40,687 
 
 
 22,526
 
 
 40,122 
 
 
 24,831
 
Total nonaccrual loans and leases
(1)
 
 
 407,633
 541,080 
 
 
 777,948
 
 
 1,916,978 
 
 
 1,502,147
 
 
Other real estate owned, net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential
 
 
 21,378
 20,330 
 
 
 31,649
 
 
 71,427 
 
 
 63,058
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 6,719
 18,094 
 
 
 35,155
 
 
 68,717 
 
 
 59,440
 
Total other real estate, net 
 
 28,097
 38,424 
 
 
 66,804
 
 
 140,144 
 
 
 122,498
 
Impaired loans held for sale
(2)
 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 969 
 
 
 12,001
 
Other nonperforming assets
(3)
 
 
 10,045
 10,772 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
Total nonperforming assets 
$
 445,775
$
 590,276 
 
$
 844,752
 
$ 
 2,058,091 
 
$ 
 1,636,646
 
 
 
 
N
onaccrual loans as a % of total loans and leases
 
 
 1.00
%
 1.39 
% 
 
 2.04
% 
 
 5.21 
% 
 
 3.66
% 
N
onperforming assets ratio
(4)
 
 
 1.09
 1.51 
 
 
 2.21
 
 
 5.57 
 
 
 3.97
 
 
 
 
Allowance for loan and lease losses as % of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
onaccrual loans
 
 
 189
%
 178 
% 
 
 161
% 
 
 77 
% 
 
 60
% 
 
N
onperforming assets 
 
 173
 163 
 
 
 148
 
 
 72 
 
 
 55
 
 
 
 
Allowance for credit losses as % of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
onaccrual loans
 
 
 199
%
 187 
% 
 
 166
% 
 
 80 
% 
 
 63
% 
 
N
onperforming assets 
 
 182
 172 
 
 
 153
 
 
 74 
 
 
 58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(
1
)
 
December 31, 2012, includes $60.1 million of Chapter 7 bankruptcy NALs.
(
2
)
 
Represents impaired loans obtained from the Sky Financial acquisition.  Held for sale loans are carried at the lower of cost or
 fair value less costs 
to sell.
 
(
3
)
 
Other nonperforming assets represent an investment security backed by a municipal bond.
(
4
)
 
This ratio is calculated as nonperforming assets divided by the sum of loans and leases, impaired loans held for sale, net othe
r real estate owned, 
and other nonperforming assets.
 
 
The $144.5 million, or 24%, decline in NPAs compared with December 31, 2011, primarily reflected: 
 

$111.1 million, or 55%, decrease in 
C&I NALs, primarily reflecting problem credit 
resolutions, including payoffs partially 
resulting from successful workout strategies implemented by our SAD.  The decline was associated with loans throughout 
our footprint, with no specif
ic industry concentration.   

$102.8 million, or 45%, decrease in 
CRE NALs, primarily reflecting both NCO 
activity and problem credit resolutions, 
including borrower payments and payoffs partially resulting from successful workout strategies implemented by our SAD.  
Although some degree of quarter-to-quarter
 volatility in our NAL levels is anticipated
, we expect that the overall trend will 
continue to be lower.  

$10.3 million, or 27%, decrease in OREO, pr
imarily reflecting sales and writedowns.   
 
 
51 
 
Partially offset by: 

$53.8 million, or 78%, increase in residential mortgage NAL
s, primarily reflecting $47.2 million of Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
NALs.  The remaining portion of the increase reflects the con
tinued softness in residential real estate property values.  The 
NAL balances have been written down to net realizable value,
 less anticipated selling costs wh
ich substantially limits any 
significant future risk of add
itional loss on these loans.   

$18.8 million, or 46%, increase in home equity NALs, primar
ily reflecting the impact of Chap
ter 7 bankruptcy NALs, as well 
as the implementation of other regulatory 
guidance in the 2012 first quarter 
(see ACL section)
.  The remaining portion of the 
increase reflects the continued softness in residential real esta
te property values.  The NAL ba
lances have been written down 
to net realizable value, less anticipated se
lling costs which substantially limits any si
gnificant future risk of additional lo
ss on 
these loans.   

$7.8 million increase in automobile NALs, entirely reflecting Chapte
r 7 bankruptcy NALs.  Prior 
to the implementation of 
this guidance, automobile loans were not placed on nonaccrual status.   
Of the $217.8 million of CRE and C&I-related NALs at December 31, 2012, $74.1 million, or 34%, represented loans that were 
less than 30 days past due, demonstrating our contin
ued commitment to proactive credit risk management. 

As discussed previously, residential mortgages are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of 
residential mortgages guaranteed by government organizations which continue to accrue interest.  First-lien home equity loans a
re 
placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier
 of 120-
days past due or when the related first-lien 
loan has been identified as nonaccrual. 
 
The following table reflects period-end accruing loans and leases 90 days or more past due for each of the last five years:  
 
Table 15 - Accruing Past Due Loans and Leases
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
Accruing loans and leases past due 90 days or more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
(1) 
$
 26,648 
$
 ---
 
$ 
 ---
 
$ 
 ---
 
$ 
 10,889 
 
 
Commercial real estate
(1)
 
 
 56,660 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 59,425 
 
 
Automobile 
 
 4,418 
 6,265
 
 
 7,721 
 
 
 10,586 
 
 
 15,647 
 
 
Residential mortgage (excluding loans guaranteed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by the U.S. government)
 
 
 2,718 
 45,198
 
 
 53,983 
 
 
 78,915 
 
 
 71,553 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 18,200 
 20,198
 
 
 23,497 
 
 
 53,343 
 
 
 29,039 
 
 
Other loans and leases 
 
 1,672 
 1,988
 
 
 2,456 
 
 
 2,814 
 
 
 2,392 
 
Total, excl. loans guaranteed by the U.S. government 
 
 110,316 
 73,649
 
 
 87,657 
 
 
 145,658 
 
 
 188,945 
 
Add: loans guaranteed by the U.S. government 
 
 90,816 
 96,703
 
 
 98,288 
 
 
 101,616 
 
 
 82,576 
 
Total accruing loans and leases past due 90 days 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or more, including loans guaranteed by the U.S.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
government
 
$
 201,132 
$
 170,352
 
$
 185,945 
 
$
 247,274 
 
$
 271,521 
 
Ratios:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excluding loans guaranteed by the U.S. government,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as a percent of total loans and leases
 
 
 0.27 
%
 0.19
% 
 
 0.23 
% 
 
 0.40 
% 
 
 0.46 
% 
 
 
 
 
Guaranteed by the U.S. government, as a percent of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total loans and leases
 
 
 0.22 
 0.25
 
 
 0.26 
 
 
 0.28 
 
 
 0.20 
 
 
 
 
 
Including loans guaranteed by the U.S. government, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as a percent of total loans and leases
 
 
 0.49 
 0.44
 
 
 0.49 
 
 
 0.68 
 
 
 0.66 
 
 
 
 
 
(
1
)
 
2012 amounts represent accruing purchased impaired loans related to the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank acquisition.  Under the app
licable 
accounting guidance (ASC 310-30), the loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and remain in accruing status.
 
52 
 
 
TDR Loans 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial
 Statements.) 
 
TDRs are modified loans in which a concession is provided 
to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  TDRs can be 
classified as either accrual or nonaccrual loans.  Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from
 
NALs, as it is probable that all contractual principal and intere
st due under the restructured terms will be collected.  TDRs p
rimarily 
reflect our loss mitigation efforts to proactively work with 
borrowers having difficulty making their payments. 
 
The table below presents our accruing and nonaccruing TDRs at period-end for each of the past four years: 
 
Table 16 - Accruing and Nonaccruing Troubled Debt Restructured Loans
December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
2010  
2009  
Troubled debt restructured loans - accruing: 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
 
$
 76,586 
$
 54,007 
$
 70,136 
$
 59,215 
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 208,901 
 249,968 
 152,496 
 97,834 
 
 
Automobile 
 35,784 
 36,573 
 29,764 
 24,704 
 
 
Home equity 
 110,581 
 52,224 
 37,257 
 25,357 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 290,011 
 309,678 
 328,411 
 229,470 
 
 
Other consumer 
 2,544 
 6,108 
 9,565 
 2,810 
 
Total troubled debt restructured loans - 
accruing 
 724,407 
 708,558 
 627,629 
 439,390 
 
Troubled debt restructured loans - 
nonaccruing:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
 
 19,268 
 48,553 
 15,275 
 37,849 
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 32,548 
 21,968 
 18,187 
 70,609 
 
 
Automobile 
 7,823 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
Home equity 
 6,951 
 369 
 ---
 ---
 
Residential mortgage 
 84,515 
 26,089 
 5,789 
 4,988 
 
 
Other consumer 
 113 
 113 
 ---
 ---
 
Total troubled debt restructured loans - 
nonaccruing 
 151,218 
 97,092 
 39,251 
 113,446 
Total troubled debt restructured loans 
$
 875,625 
$
 805,650 
$
 666,880 
$
 552,836 
 
Our strategy is to structure the commercial TDRs in a manner 
that avoids new concessions subsequent to the initial TDR terms. 
However, there are times when subsequent modifications are required, 
such as when the modified loan
 matures.  Often the loans a
re 
performing in accordance with the TDR terms, and a new note is originated with similar modified terms. These loans are subjecte
d to 
the normal underwriting standards and processes for other similar 
credit extensions, bo
th new and existing. 
If the loan is not 
performing in accordance with the existing TDR terms, typically a more aggressive strategy is put in place. In accordance with 
ASC 
310-20-35, the refinanced note is evaluated to determine if it 
is considered a new loan or a 
continuation of the prior loan. A 
new loan 
is considered for removal of the TDR desi
gnation. A continuation of the prior note re
quires the continuation of the TDR designa
tion, 
and because the refinanced note constitutes 
a new legal agreement, they are included 
in our TDR activity table (below) as both 
a new 
TDR and a restructured TDR removal during the period.  
 
The types of concessions granted are consistent with those 
granted on new TDRs and include interest rate reductions, 
amortization or maturity date changes beyond what the collatera
l supports, and principal forgiven
ess based on the borrower™s sp
ecific 
needs at a point in time. Our policy does not 
limit the number of times a loan may be 
modified. A loan may be modified multiple
 
times if it is considered to be in the be
st interest of both the borrower and us.  
 
Loans are not automatically considered to be accruing TDRs upon the granting of a new concession. Accrual status is determined 
based on delinquency status and whether collec
tion of principal and interest is in doub
t. If the loan is not 90-days past due a
nd no loss 
is expected based on the modified terms, the modified TDR remains in accruing status.  For loans that are on nonaccrual status 
before 
the modification, collection of both pri
ncipal and interest must not be
 in doubt, and the borrower 
must be able to exhibit suff
icient 
cash flows for a six-month period of time to service the debt in order to return to accruing status. This six-month period coul
d extend 
before or after the restructure date. 
53 
 
The following table reflects TDR activity for each of the past two years: 
 
Table 17 - Troubled Debt Restructured Loan Activity
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012
 
2011 
TDRs, beginning of period 
$
 805,650
$
 666,880 
 
N
ew TDRs
(1)
 
 
 597,425
 583,439 
 
Payments 
 
 (191,035)
 (138,467)
 
Charge-offs 
 
 (81,115)
 (37,341)
 
Sales 
 
 (13,787)
 (54,715)
 
Refinanced to non-TDR 
 
 ---
 (40,091)
 
Transfer to OREO 
 
 (21,709)
 (5,016)
 
Restructured TDRs - accruing
(2)
 
 
 (153,583)
 (154,945)
 
Restructured TDRs - nonaccruing
(2)
 
 
 (63,080)
 (47,659)
 
Other 
 
 (3,141)
 33,565 
TDRs, end of period 
$
 875,625
$
 805,650 
(1)
 
2012 includes $79.5 million of Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans. 
(2) 
Represents existing TDRs that were reunderwritten with new terms providing a concession.  A 
corresponding amount is included in the New TDRs amount above. 
 
ACL 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial
 Statements.) 
 
 
We maintain two reserves, both of 
which in our judgment are appropr
iate to absorb credit losses inhe
rent in our loan and lease 
portfolio: the ALLL and the AULC. Combined, these reserves 
comprise the total ACL. Our Credit Administration group is 
responsible for developing the methodology
 assumptions and estimates used in the 
calculation, as well as determining the 
appropriateness of the ACL.  The ALLL represents the estimate of losse
s inherent in the loan port
folio at the reported date. Ad
ditions 
to the ALLL result from r
ecording provision expense for lo
an losses or increased risk lev
els resulting from loan risk-rating 
downgrades, while reductions reflect charge-offs (net of recoveries
), decreased risk levels resu
lting from loan risk-rating upg
rades, or 
the sale of loans. The AULC is determined by applying the transac
tion reserve process to the unfu
nded portion of the loan expos
ures 
adjusted by an applicable funding expectation. 
 
A provision for credit losses is recorded to 
adjust the ACL to the level we have de
termined to be appropriate to absorb credit 
losses inherent in our loan and lease po
rtfolio.  The provision for credit losses 
in 2012 was $147.4 milli
on, compared with 
$174.1 million in 2011.  
 
We regularly evaluate the appropriateness of the ACL by perf
orming on-going evaluations of 
the loan and lease portfolio, 
including such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific 
borrowers, the level of delinquent loans, 
the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or
 other 
documented support.  We evaluate 
the impact of changes in interest rates and 
overall economic conditions 
on the ability of borr
owers 
to meet their financial obligations when qua
ntifying our exposure to credit losses an
d assessing the appropriateness of our ACL
 at 
each reporting date.  In addition to general economic conditions and the other factors described above, we also consider the im
pact of 
collateral value trends and portfolio diversification. 
 
Our ACL evaluation process includes the on-go
ing assessment of credit quality metrics
, and a comparison of certain ACL 
benchmarks to current performance.  While the total ACL balance 
has declined in recent quarters, all of the relevant benchmarks
 
remain strong. 
 
We have incorporated recent regulatory guidan
ce which focused on home e
quity loans, specifically ju
nior-lien loans when the 
related first-lien loan is delinqu
ent, into our ACL adequacy analysis processes.  As we evaluated this guidance in the context 
of the 
continued economic strain on some of our borrowers, we determ
ined it was appropriate to assess borrower risk at a more granular
 
level in order to ensure we had identified the incurred risk em
bedded within our portfolios secure
d by residential real estate,
 
particularly the home equity junior-lien 
portfolio.  In addition to the updated F
ICO score for each borrower and the delinquenc
y status 
of each Huntington loan, our analysis also considers any non-delinquent Huntington loan secured by residential real estate when
 the 
borrower has a significant delinquency on the most recent credit bureau report.  Additionally, beginning in 2012, a reserve amo
unt 
associated with estimated incurred losses due to
 maturity risk in the home equity lin
e-of-credit portfolio is included in the h
ome equity 
ALLL.   
54 
 
The following table reflects activity in the ALLL and AULC for each of the last five years:  
 
Table 18 - Summary of Allowance for Credit Losses and Related Statistics
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011 
 
2010  
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
Allowance for loan and lease losses, beginning of year  
$
 964,828 
$
 1,249,008 
$ 
 1,482,479 
$ 
 900,227 
$ 
 578,442 
Loan and lease charge-offs 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 (101,475)
 (134,385)
 
 (316,771)
 
 (525,262)
 
 (538,434)
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
 (12,131)
 (42,012)
 
 (116,428)
 
 (196,148)
 
 (6,631)
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 (105,920)
 (140,747)
 
 (187,567)
 
 (500,534)
 
 (65,565)
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 (118,051)
 (182,759)
 
 (303,995)
 
 (696,682)
 
 (72,196)
 
Total commercial 
 
 (219,526)
 (317,144)
 
 (620,766)
 
 (1,221,944)
 
 (610,630)
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
 
 (26,070)
 (33,593)
 
 (46,308)
 
 (76,141)
 
 (72,108)
 
 
Home equity 
 
 (124,286)
 (109,427)
 
 (140,831)
 
 (110,400)
 
 (70,457)
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 (52,228)
 (65,069)
 
 (163,427)
 
 (111,899)
 
 (23,012)
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 (33,090)
 (32,520)
 
 (32,575)
 
 (40,993)
 
 (30,123)
 
Total consumer 
 
 (235,674)
 (240,609)
 
 (383,141)
 
 (339,433)
 
 (195,700)
Total charge-offs 
 
 (455,200)
 (557,753)
 
 (1,003,907)
 
 (1,561,378)
 
 (806,330)
Recoveries of loan and lease charge-offs 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 37,227 
 44,686 
 
 61,839 
 
 37,656 
 
 12,269 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
 4,090 
 10,488 
 
 7,420 
 
 3,442 
 
 5 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 35,532 
 24,170 
 
 21,013 
 
 10,509 
 
 3,451 
 
 
Total commercial real estate 
 
 39,622 
 34,658 
 
 28,433 
 
 13,951 
 
 3,456 
 
Total commercial 
 
 76,849 
 79,344 
 
 90,272 
 
 51,607 
 
 15,725 
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
 
 16,628 
 18,526 
 
 19,736 
 
 19,809 
 
 17,543 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 7,907 
 7,630 
 
 1,458 
 
 4,224 
 
 2,901 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 4,305 
 8,388 
 
 10,532 
 
 1,697 
 
 1,765 
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 7,049 
 6,776 
 
 7,435 
 
 7,454 
 
 10,329 
 
Total consumer 
 
 35,889 
 41,320 
 
 39,161 
 
 33,184 
 
 32,538 
Total recoveries 
 
 112,738 
 120,664 
 
 129,433 
 
 84,791 
 
 48,263 
N
et loan and lease charge-offs 
 
 (342,462)
 (437,089)
 
 (874,474)
 
 (1,476,587)
 
 (758,067)
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 
 155,193 
 167,730 
 
 641,299 
 
 2,069,931 
 
 1,067,789 
Economic reserve transfer 
 
 - 
 - 
 
 - 
 
 - 
 
 12,063 
Allowance for assets sold and securitized or transferred to 
loans held for sale 
 
 (8,484)
 (14,821)
 
 (296)
 
 (11,092)
 
 - 
Allowance for loan and lease losses, end of year 
 
 769,075 
 964,828 
 
 1,249,008 
 
 1,482,479 
 
 900,227 
Allowance for unfunded loan commitments, beginning of year
 
 48,456 
 42,127 
 
 48,879 
 
 44,139 
 
 66,528 
(Reduction in) Provision for unfunded loan commitments and 
letters of credit losses 
 
 (7,805)
 6,329 
 
 (6,752)
 
 4,740 
 
 (10,326)
Economic reserve transfer 
 
 - 
 - 
 
 - 
 
 - 
 
 (12,063)
Allowance for unfunded loan commitments, end of year 
 
 40,651 
 48,456 
 
 42,127 
 
 48,879 
 
 44,139 
Allowance for credit losses, end of year 
$
 809,726 
$
 1,013,284 
$ 
 1,291,135 
$ 
 1,531,358 
$ 
 944,366 

 
 
55 
 
The table below reflects the allocation of
 our ACL among our various loan categor
ies during each of the past five years: 
 
Table 19 - Allocation of Allowances for Credit Losses (1)
 
 
At December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
 
2009 
 
 
2008  
Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
 
$
 
 241,051 
 42 
%
$
 275,367
 38 
% 
$
 340,614
 34 
% 
$ 
 492,205 
 35 
% 
$ 
 412,201 
 33 
% 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 285,369 
 14 
 388,706
 14 
 
 
 588,251
 18 
 
 
 751,875 
 21 
 
 
 322,681 
 25 
 
Total commercial 
 
 526,420 
 56 
 664,073
 52 
 
 
 928,865
 52 
 
 
 1,244,080 
 56 
 
 
 734,882 
 58 
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile
 
 
 34,979 
 11 
 38,282
 11 
 
 
 49,488
 15 
 
 
 57,951 
 9 
 
 
 44,712 
 11 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 118,764 
 20 
 143,873
 21 
 
 
 150,630
 20 
 
 
 102,039 
 21 
 
 
 63,538 
 18 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 61,658 
 12 
 87,194
 13 
 
 
 93,289
 12 
 
 
 55,903 
 12 
 
 
 44,463 
 12 
 
 
Other loans 
 
 27,254 
 1 
 31,406
 3 
 
 
 26,736
 1 
 
 
 22,506 
 2 
 
 
 12,632 
 1 
 
Total consumer 
 
 242,655 
 44 
 300,755
 48 
 
 
 320,143
 48 
 
 
 238,399 
 44 
 
 
 165,345 
 42 
 
Total allowance for loan and 
lease losses 
 
 769,075 
 100 
%
 964,828
 100 
% 
 
 1,249,008
 100 
% 
 
 1,482,479 
 100 
% 
 
 900,227 
 100 
% 
Allowance for unfunded loan 
commitments 
 
 40,651 
 48,456
 
 
 
 42,127
 
 
 
 48,879 
 
 
 
 44,139 
 
 
Total allowance for credit 
losses 
$
 
 809,726 
$
 1,013,284
 
 
$
 1,291,135
 
 
$ 
 1,531,358 
 
 
$ 
 944,366 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total allowance for loan and leases losses as % of:
 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases 
 
 
 1.89 
%
 
 2.48 
% 
 
 
 3.28 
% 
 
 
 4.03 
% 
 
 
 2.19 
% 
 
N
onaccrual loans and 
leases 
 
 
 189 
 
 178 
 
 
 
 161 
 
 
 
 77 
 
 
 
 60 
 
 
N
onperforming assets 
 
 
 173 
 
 163 
 
 
 
 148 
 
 
 
 72 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 
 
 
Total allowance for credit losses as % of:
 
 
 
Total loans and leases 
 
 
 1.99 
%
 
 2.60 
% 
 
 
 3.39 
% 
 
 
 4.16 
% 
 
 
 2.30 
% 
 
N
onaccrual loans and 
leases 
 
 
 199 
 
 187 
 
 
 
 166 
 
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
N
onperforming assets 
 
 
 182 
 
 172 
 
 
 
 153 
 
 
 
 74 
 
 
 
 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
Percentages represent the percentage of each loan and lease category to total loans and leases. 
 
The reduction in the ALLL compared with December 31, 2011, reflected a decline in all portfolios.  The declines in the C&I and 
CRE ALLL reflected significant improvements in 
the level of criticized and classified loans combined with lower CRE loan balanc
es.  
The home equity ALLL declined as a result of a combination of the improving underlying asset quality and our view of expected 
future performance.  The residential mort
gage ALLL declined as a result of the im
proving underlying a
sset quality, while the 
automobile ALLL decreased slightly as the underlyi
ng asset quality remained relatively consistent.   
 
Compared with December 31, 2011, the AULC decreased $7.8 million primarily reflecting a significant improvement in the 
underlying risk profile of the borrowers with unfunded loan commitments.   
 
The ACL to total loans declined to 1.99% at December 31, 2012, compared to 2.60% at December 31, 2011.  We believe the 
decline in the ratio is appropriate given the 
continued improvement in th
e risk profile of ou
r loan portfolio.  Further, we bel
ieve that 
early identification of loans with changes in
 credit metrics and aggressive action plans 
for these loans, comb
ined with origina
ting high 
quality new loans will contribute to continued improvement in ou
r key credit quality metrics.  We continue to see positive econ
omic 
trends within our Midwest markets relative 
to the broader United States. Nevertheless, 
broad based customer sentiment began to 
change late in the 2012 fourth quarter, as customers have incr
eased concerns regarding the U.S. economy.  Some businesses are 
hesitant to invest given the current uncer
tainty in the economy.   Unemployment rates 
remain high, however, 
our footprint large
 
metropolitan statistical areas (MSA) unemployment rates were
 below the national averag
e as of November 2012. 
 
  
56 
 
We have significant exposure to loans secure
d by residential real estate and continue to
 be an active lender in our communities
.  
The impact of the downturn in real estate values over the past seve
ral years has had a significant impact on some of our borrow
ers as 
evidenced by the higher delinquencies and NCOs
 since late 2007.  Recently, real estate 
values have begun to slowly rise from th
eir 
2007 levels.  FHFA housing prices increased 
in the 2012 third quarter relative to th
e year-ago quarter in all of our footprint 
states, 
except Pennsylvania, which was 
essentially unchanged.  Strong 
affordability and continued econom
ic growth should support 
continued housing recovery in 2013, as long as 
risks to the overall U.S. economy are contained. 
   
Given the combination of these noted pos
itive and negative factors, we believe that our ACL is appropriate and its coverage lev
el 
is reflective of the quality of 
our portfolio and the curre
nt operating environment.  
NCOs 
(This section should be 
read in conjunction with Significant Item 5.) 
Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-
off prior to the policies described below if a loss confirming event has occurred.  Lo
ss 
confirming events include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy (unsecured), continued delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an
 asset 
valuation indicating a collateral deficiency an
d that asset is the sole source of repaymen
t.  Additionally, discharged, collate
ral 
dependent non-reaffirmed debt in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings
 will result in a charge-off to es
timated collateral value, less a
nticipated 
selling costs.  
 
C&I and CRE loans are either charged-off or written down to ne
t realizable value at 90-days past 
due.  Automobile loans and 
other consumer loan
s are charged-off at 120-days past 
due. First-lien and junior-lien home 
equity loans are 
charged-off to the 
estimated fair value of the collateral, le
ss anticipated selling costs, at 150-days past
 due and 120-days pa
st due, respectivel
y.   
Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estimated fa
ir value of the collateral, less an
ticipated selling costs, at 150-day
s past due.
 
The following table reflects NCO detail for each of the last five years:  
 
Table 20 - Net Loan and Lease Charge-offs
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
 
N
et charge-offs by loan and lease type 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 64,248
$
 89,699 
$ 
 254,932 
$ 
 487,606 
$
 526,165 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
 8,041
 31,524 
 
 109,008 
 
 192,706 
 
 6,626 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 70,388
 116,577 
 
 166,554 
 
 490,025 
 
 62,114 
 
 
 
Total commercial real estate 
 
 78,429
 148,101 
 
 275,562 
 
 682,731 
 
 68,740 
 
 
Total commercial 
 
 142,677
 237,800 
 
 530,494 
 
 1,170,337 
 
 594,905 
 
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
 
 9,442
 15,067 
 
 26,572 
 
 56,332 
 
 54,565 
 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 116,379
 101,797 
 
 139,373 
 
 106,176 
 
 67,556 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 47,923
 56,681 
 
 152,895 
 
 110,202 
 
 21,247 
 
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 26,041
 25,744 
 
 25,140 
 
 33,540 
 
 19,794 
 
 
Total consumer 
 
 199,785
 199,289 
 
 343,980 
 
 306,250 
 
 163,162 
 
Total net charge-offs 
$
 342,462
$
 437,089 
$ 
 874,474 
$ 
 1,476,587 
$
 758,067 
 
N
et charge-offs ratio: (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 0.40
%
 0.66 
% 
 2.05 
%
 3.71 
%
 3.87 
% 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Construction 
 
 1.38
 5.33 
 
 9.95 
 
 10.37 
 
 0.32 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 1.35
 2.08 
 
 2.72 
 
 6.71 
 
 0.81 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 1.36
 2.39 
 
 3.81 
 
 7.46 
 
 0.71 
 
 
Total commercial 
 
 0.66
 1.20 
 
 2.70 
 
 5.25 
 
 2.55 
 
 
Consumer: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
 
 0.21
 0.26 
 
 0.54 
 
 1.59 
 
 1.21 
 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 1.40
 1.28 
 
 1.84 
 
 1.40 
 
 0.91 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 0.92
 1.20 
 
 3.42 
 
 2.43 
 
 0.42 
 
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 5.72
 4.85 
 
 3.80 
 
 4.65 
 
 2.86 
 
 
Total consumer 
 
 1.08
 1.05 
 
 1.95 
 
 1.87 
 
 0.92 
 
N
et charge-offs as a % of average loans 
 
 0.85
%
 1.12 
% 
 2.35 
%
 3.82 
%
 1.85 
% 
57 
 
 
In assessing NCO trends, it is helpful to 
understand the process of how commercial loans are treated as they deteriorate over t
ime.  
The ALLL established is consistent with the level of risk associated 
with the original underwriting. 
 As a part of our normal p
ortfolio 
management process for commercial 
loans, the loan is pe
riodically reviewed and the ALLL is
 increased or decreased based on the 
revised risk rating.  In certain cases, th
e standard ALLL is determined to not be appropriate, and a specific reserve is establ
ished based 
on the projected cash flow or collateral value of the specific loan.  Charge-offs, if necessary, are generally recognized in a 
period after 
the specific ALLL was established.  If the previously established ALLL exceeds that necessary to satisfactorily resolve the pro
blem 
loan, a reduction in the overall level of th
e ALLL could be recognized.  Consumer loans are treated in much the same manner as 
commercial loans, with increasing 
reserve factors applied based on the risk 
characteristics of the loan
, although specific rese
rves are 
not identified for consumer loans.  In summary, if loan quality
 deteriorates, the typical credit sequence would be periods of r
eserve 
building, followed by periods of higher NCOs as the previously es
tablished ALLL is utilized.  Additionally, an increase in the 
ALLL 
either precedes or is in conjunction with increases in NALs.   
When a loan is classified as NAL, it is evaluated for specific A
LLL or 
charge-off.  As a result, an increase in NALs does not necessarily result in an increase in the ALLL or an expectation of highe
r future 
NCOs. 
 
We anticipate a continuation of the pattern 
established over the last year of reside
ntial mortgage portfolio NCO annualized 
percentages being lower than the home equity portfolio NCO annuali
zed percentages.  As we have focused on originating high-qual
ity 
home equity loans, we believe the PD risk is lower in the home 
equity portfolio.  However, the LGD component is significantly h
igher 
than the residential mortgage portfolio, wh
ich results in our projection for lower NCOs 
in the residential mortgage portfolio r
elative to 
the home equity portfolio in the future
.  Therefore, we believe the residential mo
rtgage NCO annualized percentage will remain 
lower 
compared to the home equity portfolio 
as a result of the entire first-lien compositi
on of the residential mortgage portfolio, a
s well as 
the result of previous credit actions improving 
the underlying quality of these portfolios. 
 
Both the home equity and residential mort
gage portfolio NCO levels are anticipated to remain at elevated levels in the near 
future.  The home equity portfolio will con
tinue to be impacted by borrowers that are s
eeking to refinance, but are in a negati
ve equity 
position because of the junior-lien loan.  Righ
t-sizing and debt fo
rgiveness associated with th
ese situations are becoming more
 
frequent as borrowers realize the impact to their credit is minor, 
and that a default on a junior-
lien loan is not likely to ca
use borrowers 
to lose their home. 
 
All residential mortgage loans greater than
 150-days past due are char
ged-down to the estimated value of the collateral, less 
anticipated selling costs.  The remaining balance is in delinqu
ent status until a modification ca
n be completed, or the loan go
es 
through the foreclosure pr
ocess.  For the home equity portfolio, virtually all 
of the defaults represent full charge-offs as th
ere is no 
remaining equity, creating a lower delinquency rate but a higher NCO impact. 
 
 
2012 versus 2011 
 
C&I NCOs decreased $25.5 million, or 28%, primarily reflecting cred
it quality improvement in the u
nderlying portfolio as well a
s 
our on-going proactive credit management practices.  There was no
t any concentration in either 
geography or project type.   
 
CRE NCOs decreased $69.7 million, or 47%, primarily reflecting cred
it quality improvement in the u
nderlying portfolio as well 
as our on-going proactive credit management practices.  There was 
no concentration in either geography or project type.  The 
performance of the portfolio was consistent with our expectations.   
   
Automobile NCOs decreased $5.6 
million, or 37%, despite the $1.3 million impact of
 Chapter 7 bankruptcy NCOs in 2012.  The 
relatively low levels of NCOs reflected the 
continued high credit quality of originations
 and a strong resale market for used v
ehicles.   
 
Home equity NCOs increased $14.6 million, or 14%, and include
d $25.4 million of Chapter 7 bank
ruptcy NCOs.  Excluding the 
impact of the Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 loans, the decline in the remaining portion 
of the portfolio is consistent with our expectat
ions.  We 
continue to manage the default rate throu
gh focused delinquency monitoring as essen
tially all defaults for junior-lien home equ
ity 
loans incur significan
t losses reflecting the reduction of equity 
associated with the collateral property.   
 
Residential mortgage NCOs declined $8.8 
million, or 15%, despite $7.9 million of Chap
ter 7 bankruptcy NCOs.  The decline 
reflects improvement in th
e overall economy compared to the year-ago period.   
 
Market Risk 
 
Market risk represents the risk 
of loss due to changes in market values of ass
ets and liabilities.  We incur market risk in the
 
normal course of business through exposure
s to market interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates, equ
ity prices, and credit spreads
.  We 
have identified two primary so
urces of market risk:  interest rate risk and price risk. 
 
58 
 
Interest Rate Risk 
 
OVERVIEW 
 
Huntington actively manages interest rate ri
sk, as changes in market interest rates 
can have a significant impact on reported 
earnings.  The interest rate risk process is designed to compar
e income simulations in market scenarios designed to alter the d
irection, 
magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes, as well as the sl
ope of the yield curve.  These 
scenarios are designed to illust
rate the 
embedded optionality in the balance sheet from, among other things, faster or slower mortgage prepayments and changes in deposi
t 
mix. 
 
INCOME SIMULATION AND ECONOMIC VALUE ANALYSIS 
 
Interest rate risk measurement is calculated and reported to the AL
CO and ROC monthly.  The info
rmation reported includes the 
identification of any policy limits exceeded, along with an assessment that describes the policy limit breach and outlines the 
action 
plan and timeline for resolution, mitig
ation, or assumption of the risk.   
 
Huntington uses two approaches to mode
l interest rate risk: Interest Sensitive Ear
nings at Risk (ISE analysis) and Economic 
Value of Equity (EVE analysis).  Under ISE analysis, net intere
st income is modeled utilizing various assumptions for assets, 
liabilities, and derivative positions under vari
ous interest rate scenarios.  ISE analysi
s measures the sensitivity of interest
 sensitive 
earnings over a one year time horizon. Mark
et implied forward rates and various likely and extreme interest rate scenarios are 
used for 
ISE analysis.  These likely and extreme scenarios include rapid an
d gradual interest rate ramps, rate shocks and yield curve tw
ists..   
 
The ISE analysis used in the following table reflects the analysis 
used monthly by management.  It
 models gradual -25, +100 and
 
+200 basis point parallel shifts in
 market interest rates over the next one-year
 period, beyond the interest rate change implie
d by the 
forward yield curve.  Due to 
the current low level of interes
t rates, the analysis reflects a 
declining interest rate scenario 
of 25 basis 
points, the point at which many assets and liabilities reach zero percent.   
 
Huntington is within Board policy limits fo
r the +100 and +200 basis po
int scenarios.   There is 
no policy limit for the -25 ba
sis 
point scenario.  The table below shows the results of the scenario as of December 31, 2012:   
 
Table 21 - Net Sensitive Earnings at Risk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Interest Income at Risk (%) 
Basis point change scenario 
 
-25 
 
 
+100
 
+200
Board policy limits 
 ---
 
-2.0 
%
-4.0 
%
December 31, 2012
 
-0.6
1.7
3.2
 
The ISE at risk reported at December 31, 2012, shows that Hun
tington is asset sensitive, meaning that earnings increase 
(decrease) when rates rise (fall).  The primary reason for these results is that more assets (primarily LIBOR-indexed loans to 
customers) than liabilities (primarily non-maturity deposits
) will reprice over the modeled one-year period.   
 
The following table shows the income sens
itivity of selected assets and liabilities to
 changes in market interest rates.  The t
able 
compares the ISE analysis for selected Hunti
ngton portfolios to a portfolio
 that assumes 100% sensitivity
 to changes in interes
t rates.  
We calculate the percent change in in
terest income/expense as the chan
ge in the base Huntington 
portfolio divided by the change
 in 
the 100% sensitiv
e portfolio.   
 
The results for the +100 an
d +200 basis point ramps also conf
irm the asset sensitive nature of th
e portfolio.  In both the +100
 and 
+200 basis point ramps, inter
est income for total loans 
(38.1% and 39.2%, respectively) increases faster than interest expense 
for 
interest bearing deposits (35.5% and 37.0%, 
respectively).  Additionally, total borrowings 
show changes in interest expense of 
57.4% 
and 60.2% for +100
 and +200 basis point scenarios, 
respectively.  While these results are 
high, since total borrowings represen
t a 
small percentage of total interest-sensitive li
abilities, the financial impact of their se
nsitivity to rising rates is minimal.
  The -25 basis 
point parallel ramp confirms the asset sensitive position as the 
interest income for total loans 
(-9.7%), decreases faster than
 the interest 
expense of deposits (-6.9%).      
 
59 
 
Table 22 - Interest Income/Expense Sensitivity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percent of  
 Percent Change in Interest Income/Expense 
 
Total Earning 
For a Given Change in Interest Rates  
 
Assets (1) 
Over / (Under) Base Case Parallel Ramp 
Basis point change scenario 
 
 
 
 
-25
 
+100 
 
 
+200
 
 
Total loans
 
80 
%
 
 
-9.7
%
38.1 
%
 
39.2
%
Total investments and other earning assets
 
20 
 
 
 
-6.6
 
32.5 
 
 
28.9
 
Total interest-sensitive income
 
 
 
 
 
-9.0
 
36.3 
 
 
36.5
 
Total interest-bearing deposits
 
66 
 
 
 
-6.9
 
35.5 
 
 
37.0
 
Total borrowings
 
6 
 
 
 
-11.8
 
57.4 
 
 
60.2
 
Total interest-sensitive expense
 
 
 
 
 
-7.3
 
37.4 
 
 
39.0
 
(1) At December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under EVE analysis, the economic value of financial assets, liab
ilities and off-balance sheet instru
ments, is derived through t
he 
discounting of cash flows based on actual rate
s at the end of the period.  The economic 
value of equity is calculated as the di
fference 
between the estimated market value of 
assets and liabilities, net of the impact 
of off-balance sheet instruments.   
 
The EVE analysis used in the following table reflects the analysis
 used monthly by management.  It models immediate -25, +100 
and +200 basis point parallel shifts in mark
et interest rates.  Due to the current lo
w level of interest rates, the analysis re
flects a 
declining interest rate scenario of 25 basis points, the point at which many assets and liabilities reach zero percent.   
 
Huntington is within Boar
d policy limits for the +100
 and +200 basis point scenarios.   There is no policy limit for the -25 ba
sis 
point scenario.  The table below shows the results of the scenario as of December 31, 2012:   
 
Table 23 - Economic Value of Equity at Risk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Economic Value of Equity at Risk (%) 
Basis point change scenario 
-25 
 
 
+100
 
+200
Board policy limits 
 ---
 
-5.0 
%
-12.0 
%
December 31, 2012
 
0.7
-3.8
-8.8
 
The EVE at risk reported at D
ecember 31, 2012, shows that as interest rates 
increase (decrease) immedia
tely, the economic value
 
of equity position will decrease (increase), since the amount and duration of the assets are longer than the amount and duratio
n of 
liabilities.  When interest rates rise, fixed rate assets generally
 lose economic value; the longer
 the duration, the greater t
he value lost.  
The opposite is true when
 interest rates fall.   
 
The following table details the economic value sensitivity to changes in market interest rates at December 31, 2012 for loans, 
investments, deposits, and borrowings.  The change in economic value for each portfolio is measured as the percent change from 
the 
base economic value for that portfolio.  
The analysis reflects that, in a sharply higher rate scenario, total tangible assets a
re more 
sensitive than total tangible liabilities.  Investments and other ear
ning assets contribute to th
is sensitivity, largely due to
 fixed rate 
securities investments. 
 
60 
 
Table 24 - Economic Value Sensitivity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percent of  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Net 
 Percent Change in Economic Value 
 
Tangible 
For a Given Change in Interest Rates  
 
Assets (1) 
Over / (Under) Base Case Parallel Shocks 
Basis point change scenario
 
 
 
 
 
-25
 
+100 
 
 
+200
 
Total loans
 
73 
%
 
 
0.4
%
-1.6 
%
 
-3.3
%
Total investments and other earning assets
 
18 
 
 
 
0.7
 
-3.3 
 
 
-6.9
 
Total net tangible assets 
(2) 
 
 
 
 
0.4
 
-1.9 
 
 
-3.9
 
Total deposits
 
83 
 
 
 
-0.4
 
1.7 
 
 
3.2
 
Total borrowings
 
5 
 
 
 
-0.1
 
0.4 
 
 
0.8
 
Total net tangible liabilities 
(3) 
 
 
 
 
-0.4
 
1.6 
 
 
3.1
 
(1) At December 31, 2012.
 
 
(2) Tangible assets excluding ALLL.
 
 
(3) Tangible liabilities excluding AULC.
 
 
 
MSR  
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
6 of the Notes to the Conso
lidated Financi
al Statements.) 
 
At December 31, 2012, we had $120.7 million of capitalized MSRs representing the right to service $15.6 billion in mortgage 
loans.Of this $120
.7 million, $35.2 millionwas recorded using the fair value method, and $85.5 million was recorded using the 
amortization method. 
 
MSR fair values are very sensitive to movements in interest ra
tes as expected future net servicing income depends on the 
projected outstanding principal balances of
 the underlying loans, which can be greatly
 reduced by prepayments. Prepayments usua
lly 
increase when mortgage interest rates decline and decrease when mo
rtgage interest rates rise.  We have employed strategies to r
educe 
the risk of MSR fair value changes or impairment.  In addition, 
we engage a third partyto provid
e valuation tools and assistanc
e with 
our strategies with the objective to decr
ease the volatility from MSR fair value chan
ges.  However, volatile changes in interes
t rates 
can diminish the effectiveness of these hedges.  We typically report MSR fair value adjustments net of hedge-related trading ac
tivity 
in the mortgage banking income category of noninterest income.  
Changes in fair value between reporting dates are recorded as a
n 
increase or a decrease in mortgage banking income.   
 
MSRs recorded using the amortizatio
n method generally relate to lo
ans originated with historic
ally low interest rates, resultin
g in 
a lower probability of prep
ayments and, ultimately, impairment.  MSR assets ar
e included in other assets in the Consolidated Ba
lance 
Sheets.  
 
Price Risk
Price risk represents the risk of loss arising from adverse move
ments in the prices of financial 
instruments that are carried a
t fair 
value and subject to fair value accounting.  We have price risk from trading securities, securities owned by our broker-dealer 
subsidiaries, foreign exchange positions, equi
ty investments, investments in mortga
ge-backed securities, 
and marketable equity 
securities held by our insurance subsidiaries.  We have established loss limits on the trading portfolio, the amount of foreign
 exchange 
exposure that can be main
tained, and the amount of ma
rketable equity securities 
that can be held by the insurance subsidiaries.
   
 
Liquidity Risk 
 
Liquidity risk is the risk of loss due to
 the possibility that funds may not be av
ailable to satisfy current
 or future commitme
nts 
resulting from external macro market issues, investor and customer
 perception of financial strength, and events unrelated to us
, such as 
war, terrorism, or financial institution market specific issues.  In 
addition, the mix and maturity 
structure of Huntington™s b
alance 
sheet, amount of cash on-hand and 
unencumbered securities, 
and the availability of contingent so
urces of funding, can have an i
mpact 
on Huntington™s ability to satisfy current or
 future funding commitments. We manage liqui
dity risk at both the Bank and the par
ent 
company. 
 
 
 
61 
 
The overall objective of liquidity risk manage
ment is to ensure that we can obtain 
cost-effective funding to meet current and 
future obligations, and can maintain sufficient levels of on-ha
nd liquidity, under both normal business as usual and unanticipa
ted 
stressed circumstances.  The ALCO was appointed by our ROC to
 oversee liquidity risk management and the establishment of 
liquidity risk policies and limits. Contingency funding plans are in place, which measure forecasted sources and uses of funds 
under 
various scenarios in order to prepare for unexpected liquidity shor
tages.  Liquidity risk is reviewed monthly for the Bank and 
the 
parent company, as well as its subsidiaries.   In addition, liq
uidity working groups meet regular
ly to identify and monitor liq
uidity 
positions, provide policy guidance, review fu
nding strategies, and oversee the adherenc
e to, and maintenance of, the contingenc
y 
funding plans.   
 
Available-for-sale and other securities portfolio 
 
(This section should be read 
in conjunction with the 
Critical Accounting 
Policies and Use of Sign
ificant Estimates discussion, 
and 
Note 4 of the Notes to Conso
lidated Financial
 Statements.)
 
 
Our investment securities portfolio is evaluated under es
tablished asset/liability managemen
t objectives. Changing market 
conditions could affect the profitability 
of the portfolio, as w
ell as the level of interest rate risk exposure. 
Our available-for-sale and other securities portfo
lio is comprised of various financial inst
ruments.  At December 31, 2012, our
 
available-for-sale and other securities portfolio
 totaled $7.6 billion, a decrease of $0.5 
billion from 2011.  The duration of 
the portfolio 
decreased by 0.2 ye
ars to 2.9 years.  
 
The composition and maturity of
 the portfolio is presented 
on the following two tables: 
 
Table 25 - Available-for-sale 
and other securities Portfolio Summary at Fair Value
 
At December 31, 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
2010 
U.S. Government backed agencies 
 
$
 4,676,607 
$
 5,253,640 
$
 7,048,028 
Other 
 
 2,889,568 
 2,824,374 
 2,847,216 
Total available-fo
r-sale and other securities
 
$
 7,566,175 
$
 8,078,014 
$
 9,895,244 
Duration in years (1) 
 
 
2.9 
3.1 
3.0 
(1) The average duration assumes a market driven prep
ayment rate on securities 
subject to prepayment. 
 
 
Table 26 - Available-for-sale and 
other securities Portfolio Composition and Maturity
 
 
At December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
Amortized
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Cost
Fair Value 
Yield (1) 
U.S. Treasury: 
 
 
Under 1 year 
$ 
 ---
$
 ---
 ---
%
 
1-5 years 
 
 51,111 
 51,770 
 1.02 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 508 
 539 
 1.94 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 1 
 2 
 ---
 
 
Total U.S. Treasury
 
 51,620 
 52,311 
 1.03 
 
 
Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 1 
 1 
 3.64 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 182,722 
 185,792 
 1.88 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 503,045 
 521,068 
 2.44 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 3,464,196 
 3,557,809 
 2.42 
 
 
Total Federal agencies: mo
rtgage-backed securities 
 4,149,964 
 4,264,670 
 2.40 
 
 
Other agencies: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 4,934 
 5,017 
 2.70 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 304,769 
 314,149 
 1.56 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 39,143 
 40,460 
 2.24 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
Total other Federal agencies 
 348,846 
 359,626 
 1.65 
 
Total U.S. Government 
backed agencies
 
 4,550,430 
 4,676,607 
 2.32 
 
Municipal securities: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 466 
 466 
 2.30 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 173,300 
 177,593 
 2.75 
 
62 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 257,314 
 265,490 
 3.28 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 58,000 
 57,451 
 3.00 
 
Total municipal securities
 
 489,080 
 501,000 
 3.06 
 
Private label CMO: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 7,394 
 7,567 
 5.70 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 68,163 
 64,001 
 2.85 
 
Total private label CMO
 
 75,557 
 71,568 
 3.13 
 
Asset-backed securities: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 26,000 
 26,258 
 1.86 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 506,319 
 514,616 
 1.73 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 204,525 
 210,477 
 2.05 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 389,471 
 277,732 
 1.96 
 
Total asset-backed securities
 
 1,126,315 
 1,029,083 
 1.87 
 
Covered bonds: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 282,080 
 290,625 
 1.75 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
Total covered bonds
 
 282,080 
 290,625 
 1.75 
 
Corporate debt: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 27,153 
 27,411 
 2.03 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 458,516 
 468,077 
 2.07 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 158,878 
 162,453 
 3.20 
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 10,146 
 10,201 
 4.85 
 
Total corporate debt
 
 654,693 
 668,142 
 2.39 
 
Other: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 1,500 
 1,498 
 2.11 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 2,400 
 2,400 
 2.23 
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 
N
onmarketable equity securities (2) 
 
 308,075 
 308,075 
 4.97 
 
 
Marketable equity securities (3) 
 
 16,877 
 17,177 
 
Total other
 
 328,852 
 329,150 
 
Total available-for-sale and other securities
 
$
 7,507,007 
$
 7,566,175 
 2.40 
%
(1) 
Weighted average yields were calculated 
using amortized cost on a fully-taxable equivalent basis, assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(2) 
Consists of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holding carried at par. 
(3) 
Consists of certain mutual fund and equity security holdings. 
 
Bank Liquidity and Sources of Liquidity 
 
Our primary sources of funding for the Bank are retail and commercial core deposits.  As of December 31, 2012, these core 
deposits funded 78% of total assets (108% of total loans).  At December 31, 2012, total core deposits represented 95% of total 
deposits, unchanged fr
om the prior year-end. 
 
Core deposits are comprised of interest-bearing and noninter
est-bearing demand deposits, mone
y market deposits, savings and 
other domestic deposits, consumer certificates
 of deposit both over and under $250,000
, and nonconsumer certificates of deposit
 less 
than $250,000.  Nonc
ore deposits consist of brokered money market depo
sits and certificates of deposit, foreign time deposits, 
and 
other domestic deposits of $250,000 or more
 comprised primarily of public fund certifi
cates of deposit more than $250,000.   
 
Core deposits may increase our need for liquidity as certificates
 of deposit mature or are with
drawn before maturity and as 
nonmaturity deposits, such as checking and 
savings account balances, are withdrawn. 
Noninterest-bearing demand deposits increas
ed 
$1.4 billion from the prior year, but inclu
de certain large commercial deposits that may be more short-term in nature. 
 
Demand deposit overdrafts that have been re
classified as loan balances were $17.
2 million and $26.2 million at December 31, 
2012 and 2011, respectively.  
63 
 
The following tables reflect contractual maturities of other domes
tic time deposits of 
$250,000 or more and brokered deposits a
nd 
negotiable CDs as well as other domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more and brokered deposits and negotiable CDs at December
 
31, 2012. 
 
Table 27 - Maturity Schedule of time deposits, brokered deposits, and negotiable CDs
 
December 31, 2012
 
 3 Months 
3 Months 
6 Months 
12 Months 
(dollar amounts in millions)
or Less
to 6 Months 
to 12 Months
or More 
Total
Other domestic time deposits of $250,000 or more and brokered deposits and 
negotiable CDs
$
 275 
$
 687 
$
 452 
$
 534
$
 1,948 
Other domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more and brokered deposits and 
negotiable CDs
$
 296 
$
 709 
$
 477 
$
 560
$
 2,042 
 
The following table reflects deposit compos
ition detail for each of the last five years: 
 
Table 28 - Deposit Composition
 
 
At December 31,
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
By Type
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demand deposits - noninterest-
bearing
 
$
12,600
 27 
%
$
11,158 
 26 
%
$
7,217 
 17
% 
$
 
6,907 
 17 
% 
$
5,477 
 14
% 
 
 
Demand deposits - interest-bearing 
 
6,218
 13 
5,722 
 13 
 
 
5,469 
 13
 
 
5,890 
 15 
 
 
4,083 
 11
 
 
 
Money market deposits 
 
14,691
 32 
13,117 
 30 
 
 
13,410 
 32
 
 
9,485 
 23 
 
 
5,182 
 14
 
 
 
Savings and other domestic deposits 
 
5,002
 11 
4,698 
 11 
 
 
4,643 
 11
 
 
4,652 
 11 
 
 
4,930 
 13
 
 
 
Core certificates of deposit 
 
5,516
 12 
6,513 
 15 
 
 
8,525 
 20
 
 
10,453 
 26 
 
 
12,856 
 34
 
 
Total core deposits 
44,027
 95 
41,208 
 95 
 
 
39,264 
 93
 
 
37,387 
 92 
 
 
32,528 
 86
 
 
Other domestic deposits of $250,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or more
 
 
354
 1 
390 
 1 
 
 
675 
 2
 
 
652 
 2 
 
 
1,328 
 3
 
 
Brokered deposits and negotiable CDs 
 
1,594
 3 
1,321 
 3 
 
 
1,532 
 4
 
 
2,098 
 5 
 
 
3,354 
 9
 
 
Deposits in foreign offices 
 
278
 1 
361 
 1 
 
 
383 
 1
 
 
357 
 1 
 
 
733 
 2
 
Total deposits
 
$
46,253
100
%
$
43,280 
 100 
%
$
41,854 
 100
% 
$
 
40,494 
 100 
% 
$
37,943 
 100
% 
 
 
 
Total core deposits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial
 
$
18,358
 42 
%
$
16,366 
 40 
%
$ 
12,476 
 32
% 
$ 
11,368 
 30 
% 
$ 
7,971 
 25
% 
 
Personal 
 
25,669
 58 
24,842 
 60 
 
 
26,788 
 68
 
 
26,019 
 70 
 
 
24,557 
 75
 
Total core deposits
 
$
44,027
100
%
$
41,208 
 100 
%
$
39,264 
 100
% 
$
 
37,387 
 100 
% 
$
32,528 
 100
% 
 
  
64 
 
The following table reflects short-term borrowings detail for each of the last five years:  
 
Table 29 - Federal Funds Purchased and Repurchase Agreements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions) 
2012
2011 
 
 
2010  
 
 
 
2009  
 
2008  
 
Balance at period-end
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$
576
$
1,434 
$
1,966 
$
851 
$
1,289 
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
14
7 
75 
25 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted average interes
t rate at period-end
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
 
 0.15 
%
 
 0.17 
%
 
 
 0.19 
% 
 
 
 0.21 
%
 
 
 0.36 
%
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
 1.98 
 
 
 2.74 
 
 
 
 0.53 
 
 
 
 1.17 
 
 
 
 3.45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum amount outstanding at month-end during the period
Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$
1,590
$
2,431 
$
2,084 
$
1,095 
$
3,307 
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
26
86 
108 
54 
249 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average amount outstanding during the period
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$
1,293
$
2,009 
$
1,375 
$
903 
$
2,328 
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
17
46 
70 
30 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted average interest rate during the period
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
 
 0.14 
%
 
 0.16 
%
 
 
 0.19 
% 
 
 
 0.21 
%
 
 
 1.74 
%
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
 1.36 
 
 
 0.59 
 
 
 
 0.43 
 
 
 
 1.47 
 
 
 
 3.59 
 
 
To the extent we are unable to obtain sufficient liquidity throug
h core deposits, we may meet our liquidity needs through sourc
es 
of wholesale funding or asset securitizati
on or sale.  Sources of wholesale funding 
include other domestic time deposits of $25
0,000 or 
more, brokered deposits and negotiable CDs, deposits in forei
gn offices, short-term bor
rowings, FHLB advances, other long-term 
debt, and subordinated notes.  At December 31, 2012, total wholesale funding was $5.2 billion, a decrease from $6.6 billion at 
December 31, 2011.  The decrease from prior year primarily relates to a decrease in short-term borrowings, subordinated and oth
er 
long-term debt, partially offset by an increase in FHLB borrowin
gs.  The amounts included in whol
esale funding at December 31, 
2012, had a weighted average maturity of 3.15 years.   
 
The Bank also has access to the Federal Reserve's discount window.  These borrowings are secured by commercial loans and 
home equity lines-of-credit.  The Bank is also a member of the FHLB, and as such, has access to advances from this facility.  T
hese 
advances are generally secured by resi
dential mortgages, other mortgage-related lo
ans, and available-for-sale securities.  Info
rmation 
regarding amounts pledged, for the ability to borrow if necessary, and the unused borrowing capacity at both the Federal Reserv
e 
Bank and the FHLB, is outlined in the following table: 
 
Table 30 - Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB Borrowing Capacity
 
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in billions)
 
2012
2011 
Loans and securities pledged:
 
 
 
Federal Reserve Bank 
$
 10.2 
$
 10.5
 
FHLB 
 
 8.2 
 8.3
Total loans and securities pledged
 
$
 18.4 
$
 18.8
Total unused borrowing capacity at Federal Reserve Bank and FHLB
$
 10.3 
$
 10.5
 
In 2012, Huntington transferred automobile
 loans totaling $2.3 b
illion to trusts in two separate securitization transactions an
d 
received a total of $2.4 billion of net proceeds.  Both securitizations qualified for sale accounting.  An additional $0.2 bill
ion of 
automobile loans were also sold
, but not securitized, in 2012.  As a result of th
ese transactions, Huntington recognized a tota
l gains of 
$42.3 million which is reflected in noninter
est income on the Consolidated Statements 
of Income and recorded a total servicing 
asset 
of $38.0 million which is reflected in accrued income and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
 
65 
 
We can also obtain funding through other meth
ods including: (1) purchasing federal fu
nds, (2) selling securities under repurcha
se 
agreements, (3) selling or maturity of investment securities, 
(4) selling or secur
itization of loans, (5) selling of national m
arket 
certificates of deposit, (6) the relatively shorte
r-term structure of our commercial loans
 (see table below)
 and automobile loans, and (7) 
issuing of common and preferred stock.     
At December 31, 2012, we believe the Bank had sufficient liquidity to meet its cash flow obligations for the foreseeable future
.   
Table 31 - Maturity Schedule of Commercial Loans
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
 
One Year 
One to 
After  
Percent 
of
(dollar amounts in millions)
or Less
Five Years 
Five Years 
Total
total
Commercial and industrial 
$
 4,752 
$
 9,486
$
 2,733 
$
 16,971 
 76 
%
Commercial real estate - construction 
 
 293 
 299
 56 
 648 
 3 
Commercial real estate - commercial 
 
 1,790 
 2,377
 584 
 4,751 
 21 
Total
$
 6,835 
$
 12,162
$
 3,373 
$
 22,370 
 100 
%
 
Variable-interest rates 
$
 6,192 
$
 9,785
$
 2,261 
$
 18,238 
 82 
%
Fixed-interest rates 
 
 643 
 2,377
 1,112 
 4,132 
 18 
Total
$
 6,835 
$
 12,162
$
 3,373 
$
 22,370 
 100 
%
Percent of total 
 31 
%
 54
%
 15 
%
 100 
%
 
At December 31, 2012, AFS and held-to-maturity securities, with a fair value of $3.1 billion, were pledged to secure public and
 
trust deposits, interest rate swap agreements, U.S. Treasury de
mand notes, and securities sold 
under repurchase agreements.   
Parent Company Liquidity  
 
The parent company™s funding requirements consist primarily of divi
dends to shareholders, debt service, income taxes, operating
 
expenses, funding of nonbank subsidiaries, repu
rchases of our stock, and acquisitions.  
The parent company 
obtains funding to m
eet 
obligations from dividends received from dir
ect subsidiaries, net taxes collected from 
subsidiaries included in the federal con
solidated 
tax return, fees for services provided to subs
idiaries, and the issuance of debt securities. 
 
At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the parent company had $0.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents. Appropriate 
limits and guidelines are in place to ensure the parent company has sufficient cash to meet operating expenses and other commit
ments 
over the next 18 months without relying on
 subsidiaries or capital 
markets for funding. 
 
During 2012, Huntington 
redeemed $230.3 million of trust preferred securities. 
$194.3 million of these re
deemed trust preferred
 
securities were redeemed at the redemption price (as a percentage of the liquidation amount) plus accrued and unpaid distributi
ons to 
the redemption date, and $36.0 million were redeemed at par value. These redemptions were funded from our existing cash and 
resulted in a net gain of $0.8 million. 
 
On January 17, 2013, we announced that the board of directors ha
d declared a quarterly common stock cash dividend of $0.04 per 
common share.  The dividend is payable on April 1, 2013, to shareholders of record on March 18, 2013.  Based on the current 
quarterly dividend of $0.04 per common share, cash demands requir
ed for common stock dividends are estimated to be approximatel
y 
$33.7 million per quarter.  Based on the c
urrent dividend, cash demands required for Se
ries A Preferred Stock and Series B Pref
erred 
Stock are estimated to be approximately $7.7 milli
on and $0.3 million, respectively, per quarter.   
 
Based on a regulatory dividend limitation, the Bank could not ha
ve declared and paid a dividend to the parent company at 
December 31, 2012, without regulatory approval due to the deficit position of its undivided profits.  We do not anticipate that
 the 
Bank will request regulatory approval to pay di
vidends in the near future as we con
tinue to build Bank 
regulatory capital above
 its 
already well-capitalized level.  To help meet an
y additional liquidity needs, we have an
 open-ended, automatic shelf registrati
on 
statement filed and effective with the SEC, wh
ich permits us to issue an 
unspecified amount of debt or equity securities.   
 
Other parent company obligations due in the next 12 months include a $50 million subordinated note due in April 2013.  
 
With the exception of the items discussed above, the parent compan
y does not have any significant cash demands.  It is our poli
cy 
to keep operating cash on hand at the parent company to sa
tisfy expected cash demands for the next 18 months.    
 
66 
 
We sponsor a non-contributory defined benef
it pension plan covering substantially all 
employees hired or rehired prior to Janua
ry 
1, 2010.  The Plan provides benefits based upon length of servi
ce and compensation levels. Our policy is to contribute an annua
l 
amount that is at least equal to the minimum funding requiremen
ts.  The Bank and other subsidia
ries fund approximately 90% of 
pension contributions.  Although we contri
buted a total of $75.0 million 
in 2012, there was no requ
ired minimum contribution fo
r 
2012.  Funding requirements are 
calculated annually as of the end of the year and ar
e heavily dependent on the value of our pen
sion 
plan assets and the interest rate used to
 discount plan obligations.  
To the extent that 
the low interest rate environment cont
inues, 
including as a result of the Federal Reserve 
Maturity Extension Program, or the pensio
n plan does not earn the expected asset r
eturn 
rates, annual pension contribution requirements in future year
s could increase and such increases could be significant.  Any ad
ditional 
pension contributions are not expected to 
significantly impact liquidity.  See the c
ontractual obligations table for our pensio
n 
minimum funding requirement. 
 
Basel III includes short-term liquidity (Liquidity Coverage Ratio
) and long-term funding (Net St
able Funding Ratio) standards. 
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio, or LCR, is designed to ensure that
 banking organizations maintain an adequate level of cash, or a
ssets 
that can readily be converted to 
cash, to meet potential short-term liquidity ne
eds. On January 7, 2013, the Basel Committee on
 
Banking Supervision (BCBS) issued a final 
standard on the Liquidity Coverage Ratio. 
 The final standard delays full implementat
ion 
of the LCR.  Partial implementation 
begins on January 1, 2015
 with 60% of the high quality li
quid assets requirement and increa
ses 
ratably until full implementation of the LCR 
effective January 1, 2019.  Th
e Net Stable Funding Ratio, 
which is scheduled to ta
ke 
effect by January 1, 2018, is designed to promote a stable matu
rity structure of assets and liabilities of banking organization
s over a 
one-year time horizon. These requirements are su
bject to change by our banking regulators. 
 
Considering the factors discussed above, and other analyses th
at we have performed, we believe the parent company has 
sufficient liquidity to meet its cash flow
 obligations for the 
foreseeable future. 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 
In the normal course of business, we enter into various off-balance sheet arrangements. These arrangements include financial 
guarantees contained in standby letters of 
credit issued by the Bank and commitments by the Bank to sell mortgage loans.  
  
Standby letters of credit are 
conditional commitments i
ssued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These
 
guarantees are primarily issued to support 
public and private borrowing arrangements, 
including commercial paper, bond financin
g, 
and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature within
 two years and are expected to 
expire without being drawn upo
n. 
Standby letters of credit are included in the determination of th
e amount of risk-based capital that the parent company and the
 Bank 
are required to hold.  
 
Through our credit 
process, we monitor the cred
it risks of outstanding standby letters of cr
edit.  When it is probable that a s
tandby 
letter of credit will be drawn and not repaid in full, losses are recognized in the provision for credit losses.  At December 3
1, 2012, we 
had $514.7 million of standby letters of credit
 outstanding, of which 80% 
were collateralized.  Incl
uded in this $514.7 million
 total are 
letters of credit issued by the Bank that su
pport securities that were issued by our cu
stomers and remarketed by the Huntington
 
Investment Company, our broker-dealer subsidiary.   
 
We enter into forward contracts relating to the mortgage banking 
business to hedge the exposures we have from commitments to 
extend new residential mortgage loans to our customers and from our mortgage loans held for sale. At December 31, 2012, and 
December 31, 2011, we had commitments to sell residential real estate loans of $849.8 million and $629.0 million, respectively.
  
These contracts mature in less than one year.  
 
 
 
67 
 
We do not believe that off-balance sheet arrangements will have 
a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.    
 
Table 32 - Contractual Obligations (1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
One Year
1 to 3 
3 to 5 
More than
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
or Less
Years 
Years 
5 Years 
 
Total
Deposits without a stated maturity
$
 37,543 
$ 
 ---
$ 
 ---
$ 
 ---
 
$
 37,543
Certificates of deposit and other time deposits 
 
 6,230 
 
 1,914 
 
 418 
 
 149 
 
 
 8,711
FHLB advances 
 
 1,000 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 9 
 
 
 1,009
Short-term borrowings 
 
 590 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 590
Other long-term debt 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 152 
 
 
 152
Subordinated notes 
 
 50 
 
 130 
 
 110 
 
 907 
 
 
 1,197
Operating lease obligations 
 
 47 
 
 88 
 
 74 
 
 208 
 
 
 417
Purchase commitments 
 
 127 
 
 140 
 
 81 
 
 10 
 
 
 358
Pension minimum funding requirement (2) 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 30 
 
 101 
  (3)
 131
(1) 
Amounts do not include associ
ated interest payments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) 
These amounts represent our estimated minimum pension contribu
tions to our qualified plan 
required under ERISA and the 
Pension Protection Act of 2006, as well as 
contributions necessary to avoid benefit re
strictions and at-risk status. These amou
nts 
represent estimates that are based on assumptions that are subject to change. 
See Note 18 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further informatio
n regarding the pension plan.
  
(3) 
The minimum required contributions for years af
ter 2017 are currently not reliably estimable. 
 
Operational Risk  
 
As with all companies, we are subject to operational risk.   Oper
ational risk is the risk of loss 
due to human error; inadequat
e or 
failed internal systems and controls; viol
ations of, or noncompliance with, laws, 
rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or 
ethical 
standards; and external influences
 such as market conditions, fr
audulent activities, disasters, and 
security risks.  We continu
ously 
strive to strengthen our system of internal controls to ensure
 compliance with laws, rules, and regulations, and to improve the
 
oversight of our operational risk.  For example, we actively 
and continuously monitor cybe
r-attacks such as attempts related to
 eFraud 
and loss of sensitive customer data.  We 
constantly evaluate internal systems, processe
s and controls to mitigate loss from cyb
er-
attacks and, to date, have not experienced any material losses. 
 
To mitigate operational risks, we have established a senior 
management Operational Risk Committee and a senior management 
Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Committee.  The responsibilities of these committees, among other duties, include establishin
g 
and maintaining management information system
s to monitor material risks and to identi
fy potential concerns, risks, or trends t
hat 
may have a significant impact and ensuring that recommendations are developed to address the identified issues.  Both of these 
committees report any significant findings and recommendati
ons to the Risk Management
 Committee.  Additionally, potential 
concerns may be escalated to our ROC, as appropriate.  
 
The goal of this framework is to implement effective operational risk techniques and strategies, minimize operational and fraud
 
losses, and enhance our overall performance. 
 
Representation and Warranty Reserve 
 
We primarily conduct our mortgage loan sale and securitization 
activity with FNMA and FHLMC.  In
 connection with these and 
other securitization transactions, we make certain representati
ons and warranties that the loans meet certain criteria, such as
 collateral 
type and underwriting standards.  We may 
be required to repurchase individual loans 
and / or indemnify these organizations agai
nst 
losses due to a loan not meeting
 the established criteria.  We have a reserve for such losses, which is included in accrued exp
enses and 
other liabilities.  The reserves are estimated based on historical 
and expected repurchase activit
y, average loss rates, and cu
rrent 
economic trends.  The level of mortgage loan repurchase losses 
depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and ot
her 
external conditions containing a level of uncertainty and risk th
at may change over the life of th
e underlying lo
ans.  We curre
ntly do 
not have sufficient information to estimate the range of reas
onably possible loss related to representation and warranty exposu
re. 
 
 
 
68 
 
The tables below reflect activity in the 
representations and warranties reserve: 
 
Table 33 - Summary of Reserve for Representations and Warranties on Mortgage Loans Serviced for Others
 
Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
Reserve for representations and warranties, beginning of year  
$
 23,218 
$
 20,171 
$ 
 5,916 
Assumed reserve for representations and warranties 
 
 ---
 ---
 7,000 
Reserve charges 
 
 (10,628)
 (8,711)
 (9,012)
Provision for representations and warranties 
 
 15,998 
 11,758 
 16,267 
Reserve for representations and warranties, end of year 
$
 28,588 
$
 23,218 
$ 
 20,171 
 
Table 34 - Mortgage Loan Repurchase Statistics
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011 
N
umber of loans sol
d
 
 
 26,345 
 22,146 
 
Amount of loans sold (UPB) 
$
 4,105,243 
$
 3,170,903 
 
N
umber of loans repurchased (1) 
 
 219 
 128 
 
Amount of loans repurchased (UPB) (1) 
$
 29,123 
$
 19,442 
 
N
umber of claims receive
d
 
 
 666 
 445 
 
Successful dispute rate (2) 
 
 46 
%
 50 
% 
N
umber of make whole payments (3) 
 
 167 
 72 
 
Amount of make whole payments (3) 
$
 9,432 
$
 5,553 
 
(1)
Loans repurchased are loans that fail to meet the purchaser's terms.
(2)
Successful disputes are a percent of close out requests. 
(3)
Make whole payments are payments to
 reimburse for losses on foreclosed properties. 

Foreclosure Documentation 
 
Compared to the high volume servicers, we service a relativel
y low volume of residential mortgage foreclosures.  We have 
reviewed our residential foreclosure process. We have not found 
evidence of financial injury to any borrowers from any foreclos
ure by 
the Bank that should not have pr
oceeded.  We contin
uously review our processes and controls
 to ensure that our foreclosure proc
esses 
are appropriate. 
 
Compliance Risk  
 
Financial institutions are subject to several laws, rules, and regul
ations at both the federal and state levels.  These broad-b
ased 
mandates include, but are not 
limited to, expectations relating to 
anti-money laundering, lending limits, client privacy, fair 
lending, 
and community reinvestment.  Additionally, the volume and complex
ity of recent regulatory changes have increased our overall 
compliance risk.  As such, we utilize various re
sources to help ensure expectations are 
met, including a team of compliance exp
erts 
dedicated to ensuring our conformance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.  Our colleagues receive training for se
veral 
broad-based laws and regulations including, but not limited to, an
ti-money laundering and customer privacy.  Additionally, coll
eagues 
engaged in lending activities receive training for laws and regulations related to flood disaster protection, equal credit oppo
rtunity, fair 
lending, and / or other courses related to the extension of credit.
  We set a high standard of expectation for adherence to com
pliance 
management and seek to contin
uously enhance our performance. 
69 
 
 
Capital 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 14 
of the Notes to Consolidated
 Financial Statements.)   
 
Both regulatory capital and shareholders™ equity are managed at the Bank and on a consolidated basis.  We have an active 
program for managing capital and mainta
in a comprehensive process for assessing the Company™s overall capital adequacy.  We 
believe our current levels of 
both regulatory capital and shareholders™ equity are adequate. 
 
Regulatory Capital 
BASEL III and the Dodd-Frank Act 
In June 2012, the FRB, OCC, and FDIC (collectively, the Agencies) each issued NPRs that would revise and replace the 
Agencies™ current capital rules to 
align with the BASEL III capital standards and me
et certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank 
Act.  Certain requirements of the NPRs would establish mo
re restrictive capital definitions, 
higher risk-weightings for certain
 asset 
classes, capital buffers and higher minimum capital ratios.  The NPRs were in a comment period through October 22, 2012, and th
ose 
comments are currently being evaluated by the Agencies.  In late 2012, the Agencies announced that implementation of the BASEL 
III 
requirements would be delayed as certain aspects of the NPRs were to be enacted in 2013. 
 
At the time of the NPR release, we evaluated the impact of the 
NPRs as proposed on our regul
atory capital ratios and estimated 
a 
reduction of approximately 150 basis points to
 our BASEL I Tier I Common risk-based cap
ital ratio based on our June 30, 2012, 
balance sheet composition.  We an
ticipate that our capital ratios, on a 
BASEL III basis, would continue to exceed the well-capi
talized 
minimum requirements.  We are evaluating options to mitigate 
the capital impact of the NPRs and 
will provide further guidance u
pon 
issuance of the final rules by the Agencies.   
 
Capital Planning  
In connection with its increased 
focus on the adequacy of regul
atory capital and risk management for larger financial instituti
ons, 
the FRB requires banks with assets over
 $50.0 billion to submit capital 
plans annually.  Per the FRB™s rule, our submission inc
luded a 
comprehensive capital plan supported by an assessment of expected 
uses and sources of capital over a given planning time period
 
under a range of expected and stress scenarios.  We participated in the FRB™s CapPR process and made our 2012 capital plan 
submission in January 2012.  On March 14, 2012, we announced th
at the FRB had completed its review of our 2012 capital plan 
submission and did not object to our proposed capital actions.  Th
e planned actions included the po
tential repurchase of up to 
$182.0 
million of common stock and a continua
tion of our current common dividend 
through the 2013 first quarter.   
In October 2012, the Federal Reserve published two final rules 
with stress testing requirements for certain bank holding 
companies, state member banks, and savings 
and loan holding companies. 
We will be subject to the Federal Reserve™s supervisory 
stress tests beginning in late 2013, however
 as in the prior year, we are subject to CapPR and must conduct internal stress tes
ting as 
part of the completion of our annual Capital Plan.  We submitted our 2013 Capital Plan to the Federal Reserve on January 7, 201
3, in 
accordance with the Federal Reserve™s requirements.   
In October 2012, the OCC issued its Annual Stress Test final rule
.  In that ruling, the OCC stipulated it will consult closely 
with 
the Federal Reserve to provide common stre
ss scenarios for use at both the depository in
stitution and holding company levels.  
The 
OCC has deferred the requirement for us to complete separate an
nual stress tests at the bank-lev
el until 2013.  For additional 
discussion, refer to the Updates to Risk
 Factors section located in the Additiona
l Disclosures section of this MD&A.   
Capital Adequacy 
The FRB establishes capital adequacy requir
ements, including well-capitalized standard
s for the Company.  
The OCC establishes 
similar capital adequacy requirements and standards for the Bank
.  Regulatory capital primarily cons
ists of Tier 1 risk-based c
apital 
and Tier 2 risk-based capital.  The sum of Tier 1 risk-based 
capital and Tier 2 risk-based capital 
equals our total risk-based 
capital. 
 
Risk-based capital guidelines require a minimu
m level of capital as a percentage of ﬁris
k-weighted assetsﬂ.  Risk-weighted asse
ts 
consist of total assets plus certain off-balance sheet and market item
s, subject to adjustment for predefined credit risk facto
rs.   
Throughout 2012, both the Company and the 
Bank were well-capitalized under applicab
le regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.  
 
Tier 1 common equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by
 banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess and 
compare the quality and composition of our cap
ital with the capital of other financial se
rvices companies. We use Tier 1 common
 
equity, along with the other capital measures, to assess and 
monitor our capital position.  Tier 1 
common equity is defined as 
Tier 1 
capital less elements of Tier 1 capital not in the form of common eq
uity (e.g. perpetual prefe
rred stock, noncontrolling intere
sts in 
subsidiaries, and trust preferre
d capital debt securities).   
  
70 
 
The following table presents risk-weighted assets and other fi
nancial data necessary to calcul
ate certain financial ratios, inc
luding 
the Tier 1 common equity ratio, which we use to measure capital adequacy: 
 
Table 35 - Consolidated Capital 
Adequacy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
 
2012
 
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
 
Consolidated capital calculations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common shareholders' equity
 
 
$
 5,404 
$
 5,032 
 
$
 4,618 
 
$
 3,648 
 
$
 5,351 
 
 
Preferred shareholders' equity 
 
 386 
 386 
 
 363 
 
 1,688 
 
 1,878 
 
Total shareholders' equity 
 
 5,790 
 5,418 
 
 4,981 
 
 5,336 
 
 7,229 
 
 
Goodwill 
 
 (444)
 (444)
 
 (444)
 
 (444)
 
 (3,055)
 
 
Other intangible assets 
 
 (132)
 (175)
 
 (229)
 
 (289)
 
 (357)
 
 
Other intangible asset deferred tax 
liability
(1)
 
 
 46 
 61 
 
 80 
 
 101 
 
 125 
 
Total tangible equity
(2)
 
 
 5,260 
 4,860 
 
 4,388 
 
 4,704 
 
 3,942 
 
 
Preferred shareholders' equity 
 
 (386)
 (386)
 
 (363)
 
 (1,688)
 
 (1,878)
 
Total tangible common equity
(2)
 
 
$
 4,874 
$
 4,474 
 
$
 4,025 
 
$
 3,016 
 
$
 2,064 
 
 
 
Total assets
 
 
$
 56,153 
$
 54,451 
 
$
 53,820 
 
$
 51,555 
 
$
 54,353 
 
Goodwill 
 
 (444)
 (444)
 
 (444)
 
 (444)
 
 (3,055)
 
Other intangible assets 
 
 (132)
 (175)
 
 (229)
 
 (289)
 
 (357)
 
Other intangible asset deferred tax 
liability
(1)
 
 
 46 
 61 
 
 80 
 
 101 
 
 125 
Total tangible assets
(2)
 
 
$
 55,623 
$
 53,893 
 
$
 53,227 
 
$
 50,923 
 
$
 51,066 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tier 1 capital
 
 
$
 5,741 
$
 5,557 
 
$
 5,022 
 
$
 5,201 
 
$
 5,036 
 
 
Preferred shareholders' equity 
 
 (386)
 (386)
 
 (363)
 
 (1,688)
 
 (1,878)
 
 
Trust-preferred securities 
 
 (299)
 (532)
 
 (570)
 
 (570)
 
 (736)
 
 
REIT-preferred stock 
 
 (50)
 (50)
 
 (50)
 
 (50)
 
 (50)
 
Tier 1 common equity
(2)
 
 
$
 5,006 
$
 4,589 
 
$
 4,039 
 
$
 2,893 
 
$
 2,372 
 
Risk-weighted assets (RWA) 
 
$
 47,773 
$
 45,891 
 
$
 43,471 
 
$
 42,816 
 
$
 46,994 
 
 
 
Tier 1 common equity / RWA ratio
(2) 
 
 10.48 
%
 10.00 
% 
 9.29 
% 
 6.76 
% 
 5.05 
% 
 
 
Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(2) 
 
 9.46 
 9.02 
 
 8.24 
 
 9.24 
 
 7.72 
 
 
 
Tangible common equity / tangible asset 
ratio
(2) 
 
 8.76 
 8.30 
 
 7.56 
 
 5.92 
 
 4.04 
 
 
 
Tangible common equity / RWA ratio
(2) 
 
 10.20 
 9.75 
 
 9.26 
 
 7.04 
 
 4.39 
 
 
 
 
(1)
Intangible assets are net of deferred tax liability and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate. 
(2)
Tangible equity, Tier 1 common equity, tangible common equity, and tangible assets are non-GAAP financial measures.  
Additionally, any ratios utilizing these financial measures are also non-GAAP.  These financial measures have been 
included as they are considered to be critical metrics with which to analyze and evaluate financial condition and capital 
strength.  Other companies may calculate these financial measures differently. 
 
Our Tier 1 common equity risk-based ratio improved 48 ba
sis points to 10.48% at December 31, 2012, compared with 10.00% at 
December 31, 2011.  This increase primarily reflected the combination of an increase in retained earnings and a reduction in th
e 
disallowed tax deferred asset, partially offset by an increase in 
risk-weighted assets of $1.9 b
illion, the repurchase of 23.3 
million 
common shares, and the impacts related to the payments of dividends.   
 
 
 
71 
 
The following table presents certain
 regulatory capital data at both the consolidated 
and Bank levels for the past five years: 
 
Table 36 -  Regulatory Capital Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
2009  
2008  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total risk-weighted assets 
Consolidated 
$
 47,773 
$
 45,891 
$
 43,471 
$
 42,816 
$
 46,994 
 
 
 
Bank 
 47,676 
 45,651 
 43,281 
 43,149 
 46,477 
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
 5,741 
 5,557 
 5,022 
 5,201 
 5,036 
 
 
 
Bank 
 5,003 
 4,245 
 3,683 
 2,873 
 2,995 
 
Tier 2 risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
 1,187 
 1,221 
 1,263 
 1,030 
 1,499 
 
 
 
Bank 
 1,091 
 1,508 
 1,866 
 1,907 
 1,983 
 
Total risk-based capital 
Consolidated 
 6,928 
 6,778 
 6,285 
 6,231 
 6,535 
 
 
 
Bank 
 6,094 
 5,753 
 5,549 
 4,780 
 4,978 
 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 
Consolidated 
 
 10.36 
%
 10.28 
% 
 9.41 
% 
 10.09 
% 
 9.82 
% 
 
 
Bank 
 
 9.05 
 7.89 
 
 6.97 
 
 5.59 
 
 5.99 
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 
 12.02 
 12.11 
 
 11.55 
 
 12.15 
 
 10.72 
 
 
 
Bank 
 
 10.49 
 9.30 
 
 8.51 
 
 6.66 
 
 6.44 
 
Total risk-based capital ratio 
Consolidated 
 
 14.50 
 14.77 
 
 14.46 
 
 14.55 
 
 13.91 
 
 
 
Bank 
 
 12.78 
 12.60 
 
 12.82 
 
 11.08 
 
 10.71 
 
 
 
The decrease in our consolidated Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios compared with December 31, 2011, primarily 
reflected an increase in risk-weighted assets of $1.9 billion, 
the redemption of $230.3 million in trust preferred securities, 
the 
repurchase of 23.3 million common shares, and the impacts related 
to the payments of dividends, partially offset by an increase
 in 
retained earnings and a reduction in the disallowed deferred tax asset.  
 
Shareholders™ Equity 
We generate shareholders™ equity primarily through earnings, net 
of dividends. Other potential so
urces of shareholders™ equity 
include issuances of common and preferred stock.  Our objective is
 to maintain capital at an amount commensurate with our risk 
profile and risk tolerance objectives, to meet both regulatory and 
market expectations, and to prov
ide the flexibility needed f
or future 
growth and business opportunities.  Shareholders™ equity totaled $5.8 billion at December 31, 2012, representing a $0.4 billion
, or 7%, 
increase compared with December 31, 2011, primar
ily due to an increase in retained earnings.   
Dividends 
 
We consider disciplined capital management as a key objective, 
with dividends representing on
e component.  Our strong capital 
ratios and expectations for continued earnings growth positions 
us to continue to actively explore additional capital managemen
t 
opportunities.  
 
On January 17, 2013, our board of direct
ors declared a quarterly cash dividend of 
$0.04 per common share, payable in April 
2013.  Cash dividends of $0.04 per common share were also declar
ed on January 19, 2012, April 18
, 2012, July 19, 2012, and Octo
ber 
18, 2012.  Our 2012 
capital plan to the FRB 
(see Capital Planning section above) 
included the continuation of our current common 
dividend through the 2013 first quarter.  
 
On January 17, 2013, our board of directors also declared a 
quarterly cash dividend on our 
8.50% Series A Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Convertible Preferred St
ock of $21.25 per share.  The dividend is payabl
e in April 2013.  Cash dividends of $21.25 pe
r 
share were also declared on January 19, 2012, Apr
il 28, 2012, July 19, 2012, and October 18, 2012.   
 
On January 17, 2013, our board of directors also declared a 
quarterly cash dividend on our Floating Rate Series B Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of $7.51 per share.  The divi
dend is payable in April 2013.  Cash dividends of $7.89 per s
hare, 
$7.92 per share, $8.18 per share, and $7.60 per share were al
so declared on January 19, 2012, April 28, 2012, July 19, 2012, an
d 
October 18, 2012, respectively.  
 
72 
 
Share Repurchases 
 
From time to time the board of directors authorizes the Comp
any to repurchase shares of our common stock. Although we 
announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typica
lly do not give any public notice before we repurchase our share
s. 
Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market repurchases, including block transactions, accelerated or delayed block 
transactions, forward transactions, and si
milar transactions.  Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share 
repurchases, including our cap
ital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisi
tions, 
market conditions (including the trading price
 of our stock), and regulatory and lega
l considerations, including the FRB™s resp
onse to 
our capital plan.  
 
Our board of directors has author
ized a share repurchase program consistent with 
our capital plan.  During 2012, we repurchased
 
23.3 million common shares at a weighted
 average share price of $6.36.  No shares were repurchased in 2011.   
 
Other Capital Matters  
TARP Capital 
 
In 2011, we fully exited our TARP relationship by repurchasing 
for $49.1 million the ten-year 
warrant we had issued to the 
Treasury as part of the TARP.  Refer to the 2010 Form 10-K fo
r a complete discussion regarding the repayment of our TARP Capita
l. 
 
 
BUSINESS SEGMENT DISCUSSION 
 
Overview 
 
We have four major business segments: Retail and Business Ba
nking; Regional and Commercia
l Banking; Automobile Finance 
and Commercial Real Estate; and Wealth Advisors, Government Finan
ce, and Home Lending.  A Treasury / Other function also 
includes our insurance business and other unallocated assets, liab
ilities, revenue, and expenses.  While this section reviews f
inancial 
performance from a business segment perspectiv
e, it should be read in conjunction with 
the Discussion of Results of Operations,
 Note 
25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and other 
sections for a full understanding of our consolidated financial
 
performance.   
 
Business segment results are determined based upon our manage
ment reporting system, which assigns balance sheet and income 
statement items to each of the business segments.  The process is
 designed around our organizatio
nal and management structure a
nd, 
accordingly, the results derived are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by other financial instituti
ons.   
 
Optimal Customer Relationship (OCR) 
 
Our OCR initiative is a cross-business segment strategy designed 
to increase overall customer 
profitability and retention by 
deepening product and service penetration to consumer and commercia
l customers.  We believe this can be accomplished by taking 
our broad array of services and products and delivering them thr
ough a rigorous and disciplined sales management process that i
s 
consistent across all business segments and re
gions.  It is also supported by robust 
sales and cross-referral technology.   
 
OCR was introduced in late 2009.  Through 
2010, much of the effort was spent on defi
ning processes, sales 
training, and systems
 
development to fully capture and measure OCR performance metr
ics.  In 2011, we introduc
ed OCR-related metrics for commercial 
relationships, which complements the previously
 disclosed consumer OCR-related metrics.  In 2012, we continued to experience 
strong consumer household and 
commercial relationship growth. 
 
CONSUMER OCR PERFORMANCE 
 
For consumer OCR performance there are three key performance metrics: (1) the number of checking account households, (2) the 
number of product penetration per consumer 
checking account household, and (3) the reve
nue generated.  Consumer households from
 
all business segments are included. 
 
The growth in consumer checking account number of households
 is a result of both new sales of
 checking accounts and improved 
retention of existing checking account households.  The overall objective is to grow the number of households, along with an in
crease 
in product penetration. 
 
 
 
73 
 
We use the checking account since it typically represents the prima
ry banking relationship product. 
 We count additional produc
ts 
by type, not number of products.  For exampl
e, a household that has one checking account and one mortgage, we count as having t
wo 
services.  A household with four 
checking accounts, we count as having one se
rvice.  The household relationship utilizing four 
or 
more services is viewed to be more profitable and loyal.  The 
overall objective, therefore, is to decrease the percentage of 1-
3 services 
per consumer checking account household, while increasing th
e percentage of those with 4 or more services.   
 
The following table presents consumer checking account household OCR metrics: 
 
Table 37 - Consumer Checking Household OCR Cross-sell Report
 
 
Year ended December 31
2012
2011 
2010  
N
umber of households 
 
 1,228,812 
 1,095,638 
 
 993,272 
 
Product Penetration by Number of Services 
 
 
 
 
1 Service 
 
 3.1 
%
 
 4.1 
%
 
 5.3 
%
2-3 Services 
 
 18.6 
 22.4 
 
 25.3 
 
4+ Services 
 
 78.3 
 73.5 
 
 69.4 
 
Total revenue 
(in millions)
 
$
 983.4 
$
 991.1 
$ 
 953.8 
 
 












Our emphasis on cross-sell, coupled with cu
stomers increasingly being attracted by the 
benefits offered through our ﬁFair Playﬂ
 
banking philosophy with programs 
such as 24-Hour Grace® on overdrafts and Asteris
k-Free CheckingŽ, are having a positive effect
.  
The percent of consumer households with ove
r four products at the end of 2012 was 78.3%, 
up from 73.5% at the end of last year.
  For 
2012, consumer checking account households grew 12.2%.  Total 
consumer checking account household revenue in 2012 was $983.4 
million, down $7.7 million, or 0.8%, from 201
1. Household revenue was negatively impact
ed by a decrease in electronic banking 
income as a result of the Durbin Amendment.  
COMMERCIAL OCR PERFORMANCE 
 
For commercial OCR performan
ce, there are three key performance metrics: (1) th
e number of commercial 
relationships
, (2) the 
number of services penetration per commercial relationship, an
d (3) the revenue generated.  Commercial relationships include 
relationships from all business segments.   
 
The growth in the number of 
commercial relationships is a result of both new sale
s of checking accounts and improved retention 
of existing commercial accounts.  The overall objective is to grow
 the number of relationships, alon
g with an increase in produ
ct 
service distribution. 
 
The commercial relationship is defined as a business banking or commercial banking customer with a checking account 
relationship.  We use this metric because we believe that the checking account anchors a business relationship and creates the 
opportunity to increase our cro
ss-sell.  Multiple sales of the same type of produ
ct are counted as one product, the same as con
sumer. 
 
  
74 
 
The following table presents commercial relationship OCR metrics:


Table 38 - Commercial Relationship OCR Cross-sell Report
 
Year ended December 31,
2012
2011 
2010  
Commercial Relationships 
 
 151,083 
 138,357 
 
 127,596 
 
Product Penetration by Number of Services 
 
 
 
1 Service 
 
 24.6 
%
 28.4 
% 
 
 32.9 
% 
2-3 Services 
 
 40.4 
 40.2 
 
 42.9 
 
4+ Services 
 
 35.0 
 31.4 
 
 24.2 
 
Total revenue 
(in millions)
 
$
 724.4 
$
 675.2 
$ 
 584.5 
 
 












By focusing on targeted relationships we are able to achiev
e higher product service distri
bution among our commercial 
relationships.  Our expanded pro
duct offerings allow us to focu
s not only on the credit driven 
relationship, but 
leverage these
 
relationships to generate a deep
er share of wallet.  The percent of commerci
al relationships utilizing over four products at th
e end of 
2012 was 35.0%, up from 31.4% from the 
prior year.  For 2012, commercial relationships grew 9.2%.  Total commercial relationshi
p 
revenue in 2012 was $724.4 million, up $49.2 million, or 7.3%, 
from 2011. This was primarily driven by increase in loan balance
s and 
increased spreads. 
 
Revenue Sharing 
Revenue is recorded in the bus
iness segment responsible for the 
related product or service.  Fee 
sharing is recorded to allocat
e 
portions of such revenue to other busine
ss segments involved in sellin
g to, or providing service to, cu
stomers.  Results of ope
rations 
for the business segments reflect these fee sharing allocations. 
 
Expense Allocation 
The management accounting process that develops the busin
ess segment reporting utilizes 
various estimates and allocation 
methodologies to measure the performance of 
the business segments.  Expenses are allo
cated to business segments using a two-pha
se 
approach.  The first phase consists of m
easuring and assigning unit costs (activity-b
ased costs) to activities related to produ
ct 
origination and servicing.  These 
activity-based costs are then ex
tended, based on volumes, with
 the resulting amount allocated
 to 
business segments that own the related products.  The second ph
ase consists of the allocation of overhead costs to all four bus
iness 
segments from Treasury / Other.  We u
tilize a full-allocation methodology, where all Tr
easury / Other expenses, except those re
lated 
to our insurance business, reported Significant Items (except for the goodwill impairment), and a small amount of other residua
l 
unallocated expenses, are allocated to the four business segments.   
Funds Transfer Pricing (FTP) 
We use an active and centralized FTP methodology to attribute approp
riate net interest income to the business segments.  The 
intent of the FTP methodology is to eliminate
 all interest rate risk from the business
 segments by providing matched duration f
unding 
of assets and liabilities.  The result is to
 centralize the financial impact, management, and reporting of interest rate and li
quidity risk in 
the Treasury / Other function where it can be
 centrally monitored and managed.  The Treasury / Other function charges (credits)
 an 
internal cost of funds for assets held in (or pays for funding pr
ovided by) each business segment.  The FTP rate is based on pr
evailing 
market interest rates for comparable durati
on assets (or liabilities), and includes an es
timate for the cost of liquidity (liqu
idity 
premium).  Deposits of an indeterminate maturity receive an FTP credit based on a combination of vintage-based average lives an
d 
replicating portfolio pool rates.  Other assets, liabilities, and cap
ital are charged (credited) with
 a four-year moving averag
e FTP rate.  
The denominator in the net interest margin calculation has been m
odified to add the amount of ne
t funds provided by each busine
ss 
segment for all periods presented. 
 
75 
 
Treasury / Other 
 
The Treasury / Other function includes reve
nue and expense related to our insurance 
business, and assets, liabilities, and equi
ty 
not directly assigned or allocated to one of 
the four business segments.  Other assets 
include investment securities and bank o
wned life 
insurance.  The financial impact associated with our 
FTP methodology, as described above, is also included.  
 
Net interest income includes the impact of 
administering our investment securities port
folios and the net impact of derivatives
 
used to hedge interest rate sensitivity.  Noninterest income in
cludes insurance income, miscellan
eous fee income not allocated 
to other 
business segments, such as bank owned life insurance income a
nd any investment security and trading asset gains or losses.  
Noninterest expense includes any insurance-related expenses, as well as certain corporate administrative, merger, and other 
miscellaneous expenses not allocated to other business segments. 
 The provision for income taxes for the business segments is 
calculated at a statutory 35% tax rate, though our overall effective tax 
rate is lower.  As a result, Treasury / Other reflects
 a credit for 
income taxes representing the difference between the lower actual effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate used to allocat
e income 
taxes to the business segments. 
 
The $82.7 million, or 182%, year over year increase in net in
come for Treasury/Other was primarily the result of the FTP proces
s 
described above, partially offset by 
an increase in personnel costs. 
Net Income by Business Segment 
 
 The segregation of net income by busine
ss segment for the past three years is
 presented in the following table: 
 
Table 39 - Net Income by Business Segment
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012
2011 
2010  
Retail and Business Banking 
$
 
 89,183
$
 175,395 
$
 131,036
Regional and Commercial Banking 
 
 129,112
 109,846 
 38,462
AFCRE 
 
 201,203
 186,151 
 46,492
WGH 
 
 93,534
 25,883 
 34,801
Treasury / Other 
 
 127,990
 45,338 
 61,556
Total net income  
$
 641,022
$
 542,613 
$
 312,347
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
76 
 
Average Loans / Leases and Deposits by Business Segment
 
 
The segregation of total average loans and leases and total average 
deposits by business segment 
for the year ended December 31
, 
2012 is presented in 
the following table:  
 
Table 40 - Average Loans/Leases an
d Deposits by Business Segment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
Retail and 
Business Banking
 
Regional and 
Commercial 
Banking
 
AFCRE
 
WGH
 
Treasury / 
Other
 
TOTAL
Average Loans/Leases
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial
$ 
 3,337 
$ 
 9,657 
$ 
 2,081 
$ 
 790 
$ 
 79 
$
 
 15,944 
Commercial real estate
 
 532 
 
 387 
 
 4,687 
 
 174 
 
 - 
 
 5,780 
Total commercial
 
 3,869 
 
 10,044 
 
 6,768 
 
 964 
 
 79 
 
 21,724 
Automobile loans and leases
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 4,527 
 
 ---
 
 (1)
 
 4,526 
Home equity
 
 7,457 
 
 19 
 
 1 
 
 836 
 
 2 
 
 8,315 
Residential mortgage
 
 1,024 
 
 8 
 
 ---
 
 4,154 
 
 4 
 
 5,190 
Other consumer
 
 347 
 
 5 
 
 84 
 
 40 
 
 (21)
 
 455 
Total consumer
 
 8,828 
 
 32 
 
 4,612 
 
 5,030 
 
 (16)
 
 18,486 
Total loans
$ 
 12,697 
$ 
 10,076 
$ 
 11,380 
$ 
 5,994 
$ 
 63 
$
 
 40,210 
Average Deposits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing
$ 
 4,780 
$ 
 3,099 
$ 
 512 
$ 
 3,584 
$ 
 225 
$
 
 12,200 
Demand deposits - interest-bearing
 
 4,600 
 
 107 
 
 48 
 
 1,049 
 
 7 
 
 5,811 
Money market deposits
 
 7,686 
 
 1,871 
 
 247 
 
 4,098 
 
 (1)
 
 13,901 
Savings and other domestic deposits
 
 4,753 
 
 13 
 
 14 
 
 153 
 
 ---
 
 4,933 
Core certificates of deposit
 
 6,088 
 
 25 
 
 2 
 
 100 
 
 6 
 
 6,221 
Total core deposits
 
 27,907 
 
 5,115 
 
 823 
 
 8,984 
 
 237 
 
 43,066 
Other deposits
 
 163 
 
 209 
 
 66 
 
 727 
 
 1,123 
 
 2,288 
Total deposits
$ 
 28,070 
$ 
 5,324 
$ 
 889 
$ 
 9,711 
$ 
 1,360 
$
 
 45,354 
77 
 
Retail and Business Banking
 
 
Table 41 - Key Performance Indicators for Retail and Business Banking
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from 2011 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
2012
2011 
Amount
Percent 
 
2010 
 
N
et interest income 
$
 870,146 
$
 932,385
 
$
 (62,239)
 
 (7)
%
$
 867,069 
Provision for credit losses 
 136,061 
 120,018
 
 16,043 
 
 13 
 
 157,994 
N
oninterest income 
 385,498 
 405,265
 
 (19,767)
 
 (5)
 
 394,705 
N
oninterest expense 
 982,378 
 947,794
 
 34,584 
 
 4 
 
 902,186 
Provision for income taxes 
 48,022 
 94,443
 
 (46,421)
 
 (49)
 
 70,558 
N
et income  
$
 89,183 
$
 175,395
 
$
 (86,212)
 
 (49)
% 
 
$
 131,036 
N
umber of employees (full-time equivalent)
 5,838 
 5,532
 
 306 
 
 6 
% 
 
 5,501 
Total average assets
 (in millions)
$
 14,307 
$
 13,453
 
$
 854 
 
 6 
 
$
 13,161 
Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
 
 12,697 
 12,041
 
 656 
 
 5 
 
 
 11,668 
Total average deposits 
(in millions)
 
 28,070 
 28,507
 
 (437)
 
 (2)
 
 
 28,774 
N
et interest margin 
 3.11 
%
 3.26
% 
 (0.15)
% 
 (5)
 
 
 3.00 
% 
N
COs 
$
 158,577 
$
 170,199
 
$
 (11,622)
 
 (7)
 
 
$
 287,320 
N
COs as a % of average loans and leases 
 1.25 
%
 1.41
% 
 (0.16)
% 
 (11)
 
 
 2.46 
% 
Return on average common equity 
 6.3 
 12.4
 
 (6.1)
 
 (49)
 
 
 9.1 
 
 
 
 
2012 vs. 2011 
 
Retail and Business Banking reported net income of $89.2 million in 2012.  This was a decrease of $86.2 million, or 49%, 
compared to 2011.  The decrease in net income reflected a combination of factors including: 
 

$62.2 million, or 7%, decrease in net interest income. 
 

$34.6 million or 4% increase 
in noninterest expense. 
 

$19.8 million, or 5%, decreas
e in noninterest income. 
 

$16.0 million or 13% increase in provision for credit losses. 
 
The decrease in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

15 basis point decrease in net interest 
margin, mainly due to compressed depos
it margins resulting from declining rates and 
reduced FTP rates. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

 16 basis point increase in loan spread
s combined with $0.7 billion or 5%, in
crease in total average loans and leases. 
 
The increase in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$0.4 billion, or 11%, increa
se in commercial loans. 
 

$0.3 billion, or 3%, increase in consumer loans reflec
ting a $0.3 billion or 5% increase in home equity lines. 
The decrease in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$1.4 billion, or 19%, decrease in core certif
icate of deposits, which ref
lected continued focus on pr
oduct mix in reducing the 
overall cost of deposits. 
 
78 
 

$0.2 billion, or 3%, decrease in money market deposits. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$0.9 billion, or 23%, increase in non
interest-bearing demand deposits. 
 

$0.2 billion, or 4%, increase in savi
ngs and other domestic deposits. 
 
The increase in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$16.0 million, or 13%, increase in provis
ion for credit losses related to our residen
tial mortgage and home equity junior-lien 
loan portfolio. 
 
The decrease in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$28.8 million, or 26%, decrease in elect
ronic banking income, reflected the impact 
of the Durbin Amendment of the Dodd-
Frank Act on debit car
d interchange income. 
 

$16.3 million, or 39%, decrease in other inco
me, as the prior period reflected an in
creased value in a loan servicing asset. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$19.9 million, or 11%, increase 
in deposit service charge income due to stro
ng household and chec
king account growth. 
 

$8.0 million, or 37%, increase in mortgage 
banking due to higher loan originations. 
 
The increase in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$28.6 million, or 10%, increase in personnel costs primarily due 
to the addition of 39 Giant Eagle and 21 Meijer in-store 
branches. 
 

$66.6 million, or 23%, incr
ease in allocated costs. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$48.5 million decrease in FDIC insurance expense. 
 

$18.3 million decrease in ou
tside processing expense. 
 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
Retail and Business Banking reported net income of $175.4 milli
on in 2011, compared with a net income of $131.0 million in 
2010.  The $44.4 million increase included a 
$65.3 million, or 8%, increa
se in net interest income 
and a $38.0 million, or 24%,
 
decrease in the provision for cred
it losses, partially offset by a 
$45.6 million, or 5%, increase in noninterest expense. 
79 
 
Regional and Commercial Banking 
Table 42 - Key Performance Indicators for Regional and Commercial Banking
 
 
 
 
 
Change from 2011 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
 
2012
2011 
 
Amount
Percent 
 
2010 
 
N
et interest income
 
$
 
 273,869
$
 244,392 
 
$
 29,477 
 
 12 
%
 
$
 211,511 
 
Provision for credit losses
 
 10,689
 11,013 
 
 (324)
 
 (3)
 
 104,705 
 
N
oninterest income
 
 138,454
 127,315 
 
 11,139 
 
 9 
 
 111,237 
 
N
oninterest expense
 
 203,000
 191,701 
 
 11,299 
 
 6 
 
 158,871 
 
Provision for income taxes
 
 69,522
 59,147 
 
 10,375 
 
 18 
 
 20,710 
 
N
et income
$
 
 129,112
$
 109,846 
 
$
 19,266 
 
 18 
% 
 
$
 38,462 
 
N
umber of employees (full-time equivalent) 
 
721
623
 
 98 
 
16 
% 
 
538 
 
Total average assets
 (in millions)
 
$
 10,961
$
 9,283 
$
 1,678 
 
 18 
 
$
 8,213 
 
Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
 
 10,076
 8,326 
 
 1,750 
 
 21 
 
 7,414 
 
Total average deposits 
(in millions)
 
 5,324
 3,882 
 
 1,442 
 
 37 
 
 3,174 
 
N
et interest margin 
 
 2.80
%
 2.95 
%
 
 (0.15)
% 
 (5)
 
 2.85 
% 
N
COs 
$
 
 35,217
$
 39,568 
$
 (4,351)
 
 (11)
 
$
 66,267 
 
N
COs as a % of average loans and leases 
 
 0.35
%
 0.48 
%
 
 (0.13)
% 
 (27)
 
 0.89 
% 
Return on average common equity 
 
 14.8
 15.1 
 
 (0.3)
 
 (2)
 
 5.8 
 
 
2012 vs. 2011  
 
Regional and Commercial Banking reported net income of $129.1 mi
llion in 2012.  This was an increase of $19.3 million, or 
18%, compared to 2011.  The increase in net income
 reflected a combination 
of factors including: 
 

$29.5 million, or 12%, increas
e in net interest income. 
 

$11.1 million, or 9%, increa
se in noninterest income. 
 

$0.3 million, or 3%, decrease in 
the provision for credit losses. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$11.3 million, or 6%, increase in 
noninterest expense, 
due to our strategic initiatives investments. 
  
The increase in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$1.8 billion, or 21%, increase 
in total average loans. 
 

$1.4 billion, or 37%, increase in
 average total deposits. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

15 basis point decline in net interest 
margin mainly due to compressed deposit 
margins resulting for declining rates and 
reduced FTP rates. 
 
The increase in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$0.8 billion, or 60%, increase in
 the large corporate portfolio 
average balance due to establishi
ng relationships with targeted
 
prospects within our footprint. 
 

$0.8 billion, or 69%, increase in the equipm
ent finance portfolio average balance, 
which reflected our focus on developing 
vertical strategies in business aircraft, rail industry, lender finance and syndications, as well as the purchase of a portfoli
o of 
municipal leases in March 2012. 
 
80 
 

$0.5 billion, or 99%, increase in 
the healthcare portfolio 
average balance due to strategic fo
cus on the banking needs of the 
healthcare industry, specifically targeting alternate site real es
tate, seniors™ real estate, medical technology, community 
hospitals, metro hospitals, an
d healthcare services. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$0.2 billion, or 37%, decrease in commercial
 loans managed by SAD, which ref
lected improved credit quality in the 
portfolio. 
 

$0.2 billion, or 5%, decrease in the middle 
market portfolio aver
age balance primarily due to
 a decline in the full year 
average utilization rate of co
mmercial lines of credit.  
 
The increase in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$1.5 billion, or 40%, increase in 
average core deposits, which primarily reflected
 a $0.9 billion, or 42% increase in average 
noninterest-bearing deposits.  The Re
gional and Commercial Banking OCR initiativ
e was targeted to provide liquidity 
solutions for certain key relationships and resulted in significant deposit growth.  Middle market accounts, such as not-for-
profit universities and healthcare, cont
ributed $0.9 billion of the 
balance growth, while large co
rporate accounts contributed 
$0.6 billion. 
 
The decrease in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$4.4 million decrease in NCOs.  Expressed as a percentage of
 related average balance, NCOs decreased to 0.35% in 2012 
from 0.48% in 2011.  The decrease 
in NCOs was the result of improve
d credit quality in the portfolio. 
 
The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$9.6 million, or 26%, increase in capital market fees including a 
$4.1 million, or 40%, increas
e in institutional brokerage 
income driven by stronger un
derwriting fees and fixed-income
 commissions compared to the pr
ior year, a $4.5 million, or 
28%, increase in sales of customer interest rate protection prod
ucts, and a $1.0 million, or 9%, increase in foreign exchange 
revenue. 
 

$4.0 million, or 14%, increase in other inco
me primarily due to an increase in co
mmitment and other loan fees, reflecting the 
deployment of loan syndications. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$2.5 million, or 5%, decrease in deposit service charge income
 and other treasury management-related revenue reflected the 
impact of an increase in the use of earnings credits by our customers. 
 

$1.3 million, or 50%, decrease in operating lease income as lease originations were structured as direct finance leases 
beginning in the 2009 second quarter. 
 
The increase in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$15.8 million, or 17%, increase in personn
el costs, which represents a 16% increase 
in FTE employees.  This increase in 
personnel is attributable to our strategic investments in our 
core footprint markets, vertic
al strategies, and product 
capabilities. 
 

$3.6 million, or 43%, increase in FDIC insurance expe
nse reflected the significant growth in commercial loans. 
 

$1.2 million, or 9%, increase in in expanded 
marketing efforts and community development. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$6.2 million, or 48%, decrease in legal, outsi
de appraisal, and consulting expense. 
 

$3.3 million, or 12%, decrease in allocated overhead expense. 
 
 
81 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
Regional and Commercial Banking reported net income of $109.8 
million in 2011, compared with
 a net income of $38.4 million 
in 2010.  The $71.4 million increase 
included a $32.9 million, or 16%, 
increase in net interest income and a $93.7 million, or 
89%, 
decrease in the provision for credit losses,
 partially offset by a $32.8 million, or 21
%, increase in noninterest expense. 
 
Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate 
 
Table 43 - Key Performance Indicators for Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
Change from 2011 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
 
2012
2011 
Amount
Percent 
 
2010 
N
et interest income 
$
 356,442 
$
 364,449 
 
$
 (8,007)
 
 (2)
% 
 
$
 338,312 
 
Provision for credit losses 
 (22,962)
 (8,939)
 
 (14,023)
 
 157 
 
 
 184,757 
 
N
oninterest income 
 84,619 
 77,623 
 
 6,996 
 
 9 
 
 
 73,933 
 
N
oninterest expense 
 154,480 
 164,626 
 
 (10,146)
 
 (6)
 
 
 155,963 
 
Provision for income taxes 
 108,340 
 100,234 
 
 8,106 
 
 8 
 
 
 25,033 
 
N
et income  
$
 201,203 
$
 186,151 
 
$
 15,052 
 
 8 
% 
 
$
 46,492 
 
N
umber of employees (full-time equivalent) 
 268 
 272 
 
 (4)
 
 (1)
% 
 
 270 
 
Total average assets 
(in millions)
 
$
 12,424 
$
 13,025 
 
$
 (601)
 
 (5)
 
 
$
 12,908 
 
Total average loans/leases
 (in millions)
 
 11,380 
 12,985 
 
 (1,605)
 
 (12)
 
 
 13,024 
 
Total average deposits
 (in millions)
 
 889 
 786 
 
 103 
 
 13 
 
 
 692 
 
N
et interest margin 
 2.84 
%
 2.74 
% 
 0.10 
% 
 4 
 
 
 2.54 
% 
N
COs 
$
 80,244 
$
 153,715 
 
$
 (73,471)
 
 (48)
 
 
$
 349,869 
 
N
COs as a % of average loans and leases 
 0.71 
%
 1.18 
% 
 (0.47)
% 
 (40)
 
 
 2.69 
% 
Return on average common equity 
 33.9 
 27.3 
 
 6.6 
 
 24 
 
 
 5.5 
 
 
2012 vs. 2011 
 
AFCRE reported net income of $201.2 million 
in 2012.  This was an increase of $15.
1 million, or 8%, compared to 2011. The 
increase in net income reflected a 
combination of factors including: 
 

$14.0 million, or 157%, decrease in 
the provision for credit losses. 
 

$10.1 million, or 6%, decreas
e in noninterest expense. 
 

$7.0 million, or 9%, increase in noninterest income.  
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$8.0 million, or 2%, decrease in net interest income.  
 
The decrease in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  

$1.6 billion, or 12%, decrease in 
total average loans and leases. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

10 basis point increase in net interest 
margin. This increase primarily reflected 
the continuation of ou
r risk-based pricing 
strategy in the CRE portfolio and has resulted in improved spre
ads on CRE loan renewals and new business originated, as 
well as our maintaining pricing discipline 
on indirect auto loan originations. 
 
82 
 
The decrease in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected: 

$1.4 billion, or 23%, decrease in th
e average consumer automobile portfolio. This 
decrease was the result of automobile loan 
securitizations, partially offset by
 continued strong originations. 
 

$0.2 billion, or 3%, decrease in our averag
e commercial portfolio. This decrease primari
ly reflected a $0.5 billion decrease in
 
CRE loans partially offset by a $0
.3 billion increase in automobile floor plan lo
ans. The decline in CRE
 loans continued to 
reflect our managed reduction of th
is overall exposure, particularly in the nonc
ore portfolio. Th
e increase in 
average floor 
plan loans reflected new dealer relationships
 as well as strong line utilization levels. 
The increase in total average deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$90 million, or 12%, in
crease in average core 
deposits reflecting our co
mmitment to strengthen 
relationships with core 
customers and prospects, as well as new co
mmercial automobile dealer relationships. 
 
The reduction in the provision for credit losses from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$66.6 million, or 50%, decrease in CRE NCOs. Expresse
d as a percentage of related average balances, CRE NCO™s 
decreased to 1.40% in 2012 from 2.52% in 2011. 
 

$6.9 million, or 46%, decrease in indirect automobile-related NCOs. As a percentage of related average balances, indirect 
automobile-related NCO™s were 0.18% in 20
12 compared to 0.26% in 201
1. This decrease reflected our consistent focus on 
high credit quality of originations combined w
ith a strong resale market for used vehicles. 
 
The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$26.9 million, or 174%, increase 
in gain on sales of loans. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$16.5 million, or 62%, decrease in autom
obile operating lease income resulting from the 
continued runoff of that portfolio, as 
we exited that business at the end of 2008. 
 
The decrease in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  

$12.3 million, or 61%, decrease in auto
mobile operating lease expense resulting from 
the continued runo
ff of that portfolio. 
 

$5.1 million, or 29%, decrease in legal, professional, outside 
data processing, and other services resulting from a decrease in
 
collection related activities. 
 

$2.6 million, or 9%, decrease in personnel costs, which primarily
 related to cost deferrals 
resulting from increased loan 
origination activities. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$11.6 million increase in FDIC insurance expense. 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
 
AFCRE reported net income of $186.2 million 
in 2011, compared with a net income 
of $46.5 million in 
2010.  The $139.7 
million increase included a $26.1 million, or 8%, increase in net in
terest income and a $193.7 million, or 105%, decrease in th
e 
provision for credit losses, partially
 offset by a $8.7 million, or 6%, in
crease in noninterest expense. 
83 
 
Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending    
 
Table 44 - Key Performance Indicators for Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from 2011
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise noted)
 
2012
2011 
 
Amount
Percent 
 
2010 
N
et in
t
erest income 
$
 
 192,681 
$
 199,536 
 
$
 (6,855)
 
 (3)
% 
 
$
 169,201
 
Provision for credit losses 
 
 23,600 
 51,967 
 
 
 (28,367)
 
 (55)
 
 
 95,586
 
N
oninterest income 
 
 351,057 
 248,764 
 
 
 102,293
 
 41 
 
 
 338,633
 
N
oninterest expense  
 
 376,239 
 356,513 
 
 
 19,726
 
 6 
 
 
 358,707
 
Provision for income taxes 
 
 50,365 
 13,937 
 
 
 36,428
 
 261 
 
 
 18,740
 
N
et income 
$
 
 93,534 
$
 25,883 
 
$
 67,651
 
 261 
% 
 
$
 34,801
 
N
umber of employees (full-time equivalent) 
 
 2,080 
 2,041 
 
 
 39
 
 2 
% 
 
 2,211
 
Total average assets 
(in millions)
 
$
 
 7,610 
$
 6,778 
 
$
 832
 
 12 
 
 
$
 6,317
 
Total average loans/leases 
(in millions)
 
 
 5,994 
 5,437 
 
 
 557
 
 10 
 
 
 4,829
 
Total average deposits (in millions) 
 
 9,711 
 8,134 
 
 
 1,577
 
 19 
 
 
 6,990
 
N
et interest margin 
 
 1.87 
%
 2.16 
% 
 
 (0.29)
% 
 (13)
 
 
 2.23
% 
N
COs 
$
 
 43,038 
$
 57,485 
 
$
 (14,447)
 
 (25)
 
 
$
 79,647
 
N
COs as a % of average loans and leases 
 
 0.72 
%
 1.06 
% 
 
 (0.34)
% 
 (32)
 
 
 1.65
% 
Return on average common equity 
 
 12.8 
 3.8 
 
 
 9.0
 
 237 
 
 
 5.7
 
Mortgage banking origination volume (in millions) 
$
 
 4,833 
$
 3,921 
 
$
 912
 
 23 
 
 
$
 5,476
 
N
oninterest income shared with other business 
segments
(1) 
 
 46,744 
 42,761 
 
 
 3,983
 
 9 
 
 
 43,779
 
Total assets under management 
(in billions) - eop
 
 
 15.9 
 14.6 
 
 
 1.3
 
 9 
 
 
 14.4
 
Total trust assets
 (in billions) - eop
 
 
 73.9 
 59.3 
 
 
 14.6
 
 25 
 
 
 60.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eop - End of Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
Amount is not included in noninterest income reported above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 vs. 2011 
 
WGH reported net income of $93.5 million 
in 2012.  This was an increase of $67.7 
million, or 261%, compared to 2011. The 
increase in net income reflected a 
combination of f
actors including: 

$102.3 million, or 41%, increase in noninterest income. 
 

$28.4 million, or 55%, decrease in
 the provision for credit losses. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$19.7 million, or 6%, increas
e in noninterest expense. 
 

$6.9 million, or 3%, decrease in net interest income. 
 
The decrease in net interest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

29 basis point decrease in net interest ma
rgin mainly due to compressed depos
it margins resulting from declining rates and 
reduced funds transfer pricing rates. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$0.6 billion, or 10%, increase in 
average total loans and leases. 
 

$1.6 billion, or 19%, increase in
 average total deposits. 
 
84 
 
The increase in total average loans and leases from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$0.5 billion, or 13%, increase in the residential mortga
ge portfolio due to historically low interest rates. 
The increase in average total deposits from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$1.6 billion increase in short-term commercial deposits. 
 
The decrease in the provision for credit losses reflected:  
 

$14.4 million decrease in NCOs. Expressed as a percentage of 
average related balance, NCOs 
decreased to 0.72% in 2012 
from 1.06% in 2011 due
 to improved credit qu
ality in the portfolio. 
The increase in noninterest income from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$99.5 million, or 167%, increase in mortga
ge banking income due to an increase in
 mortgage loan originations and the 
positive impact of net MSR activity. 
 

$3.4 million, or 60%, increase in other noninterest income due pr
imarily to a gain on sale of Low Income Housing Tax Credit 
investments. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$5.0 million, or 11%, decrease in brokerage income due to a decrease in annuity product sales partially offset by an increase 
in sale of market-linked certificates of deposit. 
 
The increase in noninterest expense from the year-ago period reflected:  
 

$19.1 million, or 28%, increase in other expenses, primarily due to mortgage loan system conversion costs, increased 
mortgage volume, and an increase in allocated costs. 
 

$10.2 million, or 5%, increase in personnel cost, which re
flected higher sales commissions 
and loan origination costs 
primarily related to the increas
ed mortgage origination volume. 
 

$7.0 million, or 25%, increase in outside data processing 
and other services, which reflected mortgage loan system 
conversion costs and increased mortgage volume. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$10.4 million, or 56%, decrease 
in FDIC insurance expense. 
 

$3.3 million, or 96%, decrease in 
OREO and foreclosure expense. 
 
2011 vs. 2010 
WGH reported net income of $25.9 million 
in 2011, compared with a net income of
 $34.8 million in 2010.  The $8.9 million 
decrease included a $89.9 million, or 27%, decrease in noninterest
 income, partially offset by a $43.6 million, or 46% decrease
 in the 
provision for credit losses and a $30.3 million, or 18%, increase in net interest income. 
85 
 
 RESULTS FOR THE FOURTH QUARTER  
 
Earnings Discussion 
 
In the 2012 fourth quarter, we reported net income of $167.3 mi
llion, or $0.19 per common share, compared with net income of 
$126.9 million, or $0.14 per common share, in the year-ago qu
arter. Significant items impacting fourth quarter performance incl
uded: 
 
Table 45 - Significant Items Influencing Earnings Performance Comparison
(dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact
(1) 
Three Months Ended:
 
After-tax
 
EPS
(2) 
 
December 31, 2012 - GAAP income
 
$
 
 167.3 
$
 
 0.19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011 - GAAP income
 
$
 
 126.9 
  
$
 0.14 
 
 
 
Ł  Gain on early extinguishment of debt
 
 
 9.7 
  
 
 0.01 
 
 
 
Ł  Visa®-related derivative loss
 
 
 (6.4)
  
 
 ---
 
 
 
 
(1) 
Favorable (unfavorable) impact on GAAP earnings; pretax unless otherwise noted.
 
(2) 
After-tax.  EPS is reflected on a fully diluted basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Interest Income / Average Balance Sheet 
 
FTE net interest income increased $21.0 m
illion, or 5%, from the year-ago quarter.  
This reflected the $1.5 billion, or 3%, 
increase in average total earning assets 
and 7 basis point increase in the fully-tax
able equivalent net interest margin.   
The following table presents the 
$0.9 billion, or 2%, increase in 
average total loans and leases: 
 
Table 46 - Average Loans/Leases - 2012 Fourth Quarter vs. 2011 Fourth 
Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter
 
Change 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
 
Amount 
Percent
Average Loans/Leases 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 
 16,507 
$
 14,219 
 
$ 
 2,288 
 16 
% 
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 5,473 
 5,958 
 
 
 (485)
 (8)
 
 
Total commercial 
 
 21,980 
 20,177 
 
 
 1,803 
 9 
 
 
 
Automobile 
 
 4,486 
 5,639 
 
 
 (1,153)
 (20)
 
 
 
Home equity 
 
 8,345 
 8,149 
 
 
 196 
 2 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 5,155 
 5,043 
 
 
 112 
 2 
 
 
 
Other consumer 
 
 431 
 511 
 
 
 (80)
 (16)
 
 
Total consumer 
 
 18,417 
 19,342 
 
 
 (925)
 (5)
 
Total loans/leases 
$
 
 40,397 
$
 39,519 
 
$ 
 878 
 2 
% 
 
The increase in average total loans and leases reflected:  

$2.3 billion, or 16%, increase in 
average C&I portfolio.  This reflected the c
ontinued growth across most business lines 
including equipment finance, dealer floor
plan, large corporate, and middle market. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$1.2 billion, or 20%, decrease in
 average automobile lo
ans. The decrease reflected th
e impact of our continued program of 
securitization and sale of such lo
ans. Specifically, $1.3 billion of such loans in
 the 2012 first quarter
 and $1.0 billion in t
he 
2012 fourth quarter were securitized and so
ld. Automobile loan originations remained
 strong during the 
2012 fourth quarter 
and 2012 was a record 
year with over $4.0 
billion of originations. 
 

$0.5 billion, or 8%, decrease in averag
e CRE loans. This reflected contin
ued runoff of the noncore portfolio. 
86 
 
 
The following table details the 
$3.2 billion, or 7%, increas
e in average total deposits: 
 
Table 47 - Average Deposits - 2012
 Fourth Quarter vs. 2011 Fourth Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter
 
Change 
(dollar amounts in millions)
 
2012
2011 
 
Amount 
Percent
Average Deposits 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demand deposits: noninterest-bearing 
$
 
 13,121 
$
 10,716 
 
$ 
 2,405 
 22 
%
 
 
Demand deposits: interest-bearing 
 
 5,843 
 5,570 
 
 
 273 
 5 
 
 
Total demand deposits 
 
 18,964 
 16,286 
 
 
 2,678 
 16 
 
 
 
Money market deposits 
 
 14,749 
 13,594 
 
 
 1,155 
 8 
 
 
 
Savings and other domestic deposits 
 
 4,960 
 4,706 
 
 
 254 
 5 
 
 
 
Core certificates of deposit 
 
 5,637 
 6,769 
 
 
 (1,132)
 (17)
 
 
Total core deposits 
 
 44,310 
 41,355 
 
 
 2,955 
 7 
 
 
Other deposits 
 
 2,457 
 2,249 
 
 
 208 
 9 
 
Total deposits 
$
 
 46,767 
$
 43,604 
 
$ 
 3,163 
 7 
%
 
The increase in average total deposits from the year-ago quarter reflected:  
 

$2.7 billion, or 16%, growth in 
average total demand deposits. 
 

$1.2 billion, or 8%, increase in money market deposits. 
 
 Partially offset by: 
 

$1.1 billion, or 17%, declin
e in average core certificates of deposit. 
 
Provision for Credit Losses 
 
The provision for credit losses in the 2012
 fourth quarter was $39.5 million, down 
$5.8 million, or 13%, from the year-ago 
quarter, reflecting a reduction of the ACL as 
a result of the improvement in the underl
ying credit quality of the loan portfoli
o.  The 
2012 fourth quarter provision 
for credit losses was $30.6 million less than to
tal NCOs, reflecting the resolution of problem lo
ans for 
which reserves had been previously established. 
 
 
87 
 
Noninterest Income 
(This section should be 
read in conjunction with Significant Item 4.) 
 
Noninterest income increased $68.3 milli
on, or 30%, from the year-ago quarter. 
 
Table 48 - Noninterest Income - 2012 Fourth Quarter vs. 2011 Fourth Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter
Change 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011  
Amount
Percent 
 
Service charges on deposit accounts  
$
 68,083 
$
 63,324 
$
 4,759 
8 
% 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 61,711 
 
 24,098 
 37,613 
156 
 
 
Trust services  
 
 31,388 
 
 28,775 
 2,613 
9 
 
 
Electronic banking 
 
 21,011 
 
 18,282 
 2,729 
15 
 
 
Brokerage income 
 
 17,415 
 
 18,688 
 (1,273)
(7)
 
 
Insurance income 
 
 17,268 
 
 17,906 
 (638)
(4)
 
 
Gain on sale of loans 
 
 20,690 
 
 2,884 
 17,806 
617 
 
 
Bank owned life insurance income 
 
 13,767 
 
 14,271 
 (504)
(4)
 
 
Capital markets fees 
 
 12,918 
 
 9,811 
 3,107 
32 
 
 
Securities gains (losses) 
 
 863 
 
 (3,878)
 4,741 
N.R.
 
 
Other income  
 
 32,537 
 
 35,191 
 (2,654)
(8)
 
Total noninterest income  
$
 297,651 
$
 229,352 
 
$ 
 68,299 
30 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The $68.3 million increase reflected: 
 

$37.6 million, or 156%, increase in mortga
ge banking income. This primarily ref
lected a $23.2 million increase in origination 
and secondary marketing in
come. Also impacting the year-over-year comparis
on was a $10.0 million 
net MSR hedging gain 
in the current quarter compared to a net MSR he
dging loss of $4.0 million in the year-ago quarter.  
 

$17.8 million, or 617%, increase in gain 
on sale of loans including
 a $17.3 million automob
ile loan securitization gain. 
 

$4.8 million, or 8%, increase in service charges on depos
its due to continued st
rong customer growth. 
 

$4.7 million increase in securities gains. 
 

$3.1 million, or 32%, increase in capital market fees. 
 
 
88 
 
Noninterest Expense 
(This section should be 
read in conjunction with Significant Item 6.) 
 
Noninterest expense increased $40.4 milli
on, or 9%, from the year-ago quarter.   
 
Table 49 - Noninterest Expense - 2012 Fourth Quarter vs. 2011 Fourth Quarter
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter
Change 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
2011  
 
Amount
Percent 
 
Personnel costs 
$
 253,952 
$
 228,101 
 
$
 25,851 
11 
% 
 
Outside data processing and other services 
 
 48,699 
 53,934 
 
 (5,235)
(10)
 
 
N
et occupancy 
 
 29,008 
 26,841 
 
 2,167 
8 
 
 
Equipment 
 
 26,580 
 25,884 
 
 696 
3 
 
 
Deposit and other insurance expense 
 
 16,327 
 18,481 
 
 (2,154)
(12)
 
 
Professional services 
 
 22,514 
 16,257 
 
 6,257 
38 
 
 
Marketing 
 
 16,456 
 
 13,920 
 
 2,536 
18 
 
 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 11,647 
 13,175 
 
 (1,528)
(12)
 
 
OREO and foreclosure expense 
 
 4,233 
 5,009 
 
 (776)
(15)
 
 
Loss (Gain) on early extinguishment of debt 
 
 - 
 (9,697)
 
 9,697 
N.R.
 
 
Other expense 
 
 41,212 
 38,369 
 
 2,843 
7 
 
Total noninterest expense
 
$
 470,628 
$
 430,274 
 
$
 40,354 
9 
% 
 
Full-time equivalent employees, at period-end 
 
 11,806 
 11,245 
 
 561 
5 
% 
 
 
The $40.4 million increase reflected: 

$25.9 million, or 11%, increase in personnel 
costs, reflecting an increase in the nu
mber of full-time equivalent employees as 
well as increased salaries and benefits. 
 

$9.7 million decrease in gain on the early extinguishment of debt related to the exchange of certain trust preferred securities
 
in the year ago quarter. 
 

$6.3 million, or 38%, increase in professional services, re
flecting increased temporary regulatory related expense. 
 
Partially offset by: 
 

$5.2 million, or 10%, decline in outside data
 processing and other services as the year ago quarter included costs associated 
with the conversion to 
a new debit card processor. 
 
 
Provision for Income Taxes 
 
The provision for income taxes in the 2012 fourth quarter was $5
4.3 million and $42.0 million in the 2011 fourth quarter. The 
effective tax rate in the 2012 fourth quarter was 24.5% compared to 24.9% in the 2011 fourth quarter. At December 31, 2012 and 
2011 we had a net deferred tax asset of $203.9 million and $364.8 million, respectively. Based on both positive and negative ev
idence 
and our level of forecasted future taxable income, we determined that no impairment existed to the net deferred tax asset at De
cember 
31, 2012 and 2011. For regulatory capital purposes, there is no 
net disallowed deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012 compared
 to 
$39.1 million at December 31, 2011. 
 
Credit Quality 
Credit quality performance in the 2
012 fourth quarter reflected continued improveme
nt in the overall loan portfolio relating to
 
NCO activity, as well as in key credit quality metrics, including
 a 25% decline in NPAs and a 25% 
decline in the level of Criti
cized 
commercial loans compared to the year-ago quarter. 
 
 
89 
 
NCOs 
 
Total NCOs for the 2012 fourth qu
arter were $70.1 million, or an annualized 0.69% 
of average total loans and leases.  NCOs in 
the year-ago quarter were $83.9 mi
llion, or an annualized 0.85%. 
Total C&I NCOs for the 2012 fourth quarter were $7.1 million, 
or an annualized 0.17%, down from $10.9 million, or an 
annualized 0.31% of related loans, in the year-ago quarter.  Total 
CRE NCOs for the 2012 fourth qu
arter were $21.4 million, or 
an 
annualized 1.56%, down from $28.
4 million, or an annualized 1.91% in the year-a
go quarter.  These declines reflected improvemen
t 
in the overall credit quality 
of the portfolio.     
Total consumer NCOs in the current quarter were $41.7 million, 
or an annualized 0.91%, down from $44.6 million or an 
annualized 0.92% of average total consumer loans in the year-ago quarter.   
Residential mortgage NCOs 
were $9.7 million, or an annualized 0.75%, relativel
y unchanged wh
en compared with $9.7 million, 
or an annualized 0.77% in the year-ago quarter. 
Home equity NCOs in the 2012 fourth quarter were $25.0 milli
on, or an annualized 1.20%.  This represented an increase from 
$23.4 million, or an annualized 1.
15%, in the year-ago quarter. 
Automobile loan and lease NCOs were $1.9 
million, or an annualized 0.17
%, down from $4.2 million, or an annualized 0.30%, in 
the year-ago quarter.  The rela
tively low level of NCOs in the current quarter 
reflected the continued hi
gh credit quality of o
riginations 
and a strong resale market for used automobiles.  
 
NPAs and NALs 
 
Total NALs were $407.6 million at December 31, 2012, and represented 1.00% of total loans and leases.  This was down $133.4 
million, or 25%, from $541.1 million, or 1.39%, 
of total loans and leases at the end of 
the year ago period.  This decrease pri
marily 
reflected substantial improvement in
 the C&I and CRE portfolio, partially offset by 
an increase in consumer NALs resulting from
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy consumer loans. 
NPAs, which include NALs, were $445.8 million at December 31, 2012, 
and represented 1.09% of to
tal loans and leases.  This 
was significantly lower than $590
.3 million, or 1.51% of related assets at the en
d of the year-ago period.  The $144.5 million 
decrease 
in NPAs from the end of the year-ago period primarily re
flected the $133.4 million decrease in NALs discussed above. 
The over 90-day delinquent, but still accruing, ratio for total loans not guaranteed by a U.S. government agency, was 0.27% at 
December 31, 2012, representing an eight basis point increase compared with December 31, 2011.   
 
ACL 
(This section should be read in conjunction with Note 
3 of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial
 Statements.) 
 At December 31, 2012, the ALLL was $769.1 million, down $195.8 million, or 20%, from $964.8 million at December 31, 
2011.  Expressed as a percent of period-end loans and leases, the ALLL ratio at December 31, 2012, was 1.89%, a decline from 2.
48% 
at December 31, 2011.  The ALLL as a percent of NALs was 189% at December 31, 2012, an increase from 178% at the end of 2011.  
  
At December 31, 2012, the AULC was $40.7 million, a decrease of $7.8 million, or 16%, compared with December 31, 2011.   
On a combined basis, the ACL as a pe
rcent of total loans and leases at December
 31, 2012, was 1.99%, do
wn from 2.60% at 
December 31, 2011.  This decline was primarily a result of the improvement in the underlying quality of the portfolio.  While t
he total 
ACL balance declined, and the resulting ACL-to-loan coverage ratio
 declined, the ACL as a percent of NALs improved to 199% at 
December 31, 2012 from 187% at December 31, 2011, indicating additional strength in the ACL level relative to the level of prob
lem 
loans.   
  
90 
 
Table 50 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)
 
2012
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
Fourth
Third
Second 
First 
Interest income
 
$
 478,995 
$
 483,787 
$
 487,544 
$
 479,937 
Interest expense
 
 
 44,940 
 53,489 
 58,582 
 62,728 
N
et interest income
 
 434,055 
 430,298 
 428,962 
 417,209 
Provision for credit losses
 
 39,458 
 37,004 
 36,520 
 34,406 
N
et interest income after provision for credit losses
 394,597 
 393,294 
 392,442 
 382,803 
Total noninterest income 
 297,651 
 261,067 
 253,819 
 285,320 
Total noninterest expense
 470,628 
 458,303 
 444,269 
 462,676 
Income before income taxes
 
 221,620 
 196,058 
 201,992 
 205,447 
Provision for income taxes
 
 54,341 
 28,291 
 49,286 
 52,177 
N
et income
$
 167,279 
$
 167,767 
$
 152,706 
$
 153,270 
Dividends on preferred shares
 
 7,973 
 7,983 
 7,984 
 8,049 
N
et income applicable to common shares
$
 159,306 
$
 159,784 
$
 144,722 
$
 145,221 
Common shares outstanding
Average - basic
 
 
 847,220 
 857,871 
 862,261 
 864,499 
Average - diluted
(2) 
 
 853,306 
 863,588 
 867,551 
 869,164 
Ending
 
 
 842,813 
 855,485 
 858,401 
 864,675 
Book value per common share
 
$
 6.41 
$
 6.34 
$
 6.13 
$
 5.97 
Tangible book value per common share
(3) 
 
 5.78 
 5.71 
 5.49 
 5.33 
 
Per common share
N
et income - basic
 
$
 0.19 
$
 0.19 
$
 0.17 
$
 0.17 
N
et income - diluted
 
 
 0.19 
 0.19 
 0.17 
 0.17 
Cash dividends declared
 
 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 0.04 
 
Common stock price, per share
High
(4) 
$
 7.20 
$
 7.20 
$
 6.77 
$
 6.58 
Low
(4) 
 
 5.90 
 6.16 
 5.84 
 5.49 
Close
 
 
 6.39 
 6.90 
 6.40 
 6.45 
Average closing price
 
 
 6.42 
 6.56 
 6.37 
 5.97 
 
Return on average total assets
 
 1.19 
%
 1.19 
%
 1.10 
%
 1.13 
%
Return on average common shareholders' equity
 
 11.6 
 11.9 
 11.1 
 11.4 
Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity
(5)
 
 13.5 
 13.9 
 13.1 
 13.5 
Efficiency ratio
(6)
 
 62.3 
 64.5 
 62.8 
 63.8 
Effective tax rate
 
 24.5 
 14.4 
 24.4 
 25.4 
Margin analysis-as a % of average earning assets
(7)
 
Interest income
(7) 
 
 3.80 
%
 3.79 
%
 3.89 
%
 3.91 
%
Interest expense
 
 
 0.35 
 0.41 
 0.47 
 0.51 
N
et interest margin 
(7) 
 
 3.45 
%
 3.38 
%
 3.42 
%
 3.40 
%
 
Revenue - FTE
N
et interest income 
 
$
 434,055 
$
 430,298 
$
 428,962 
$
 417,209 
FTE adjustment
 
 
 5,470 
 5,254 
 5,747 
 3,935 
N
et interest income
(7)
 
 439,525 
 435,552 
 434,709 
 421,144 
N
oninterest income
 
 297,651 
 261,067 
 253,819 
 285,320 
Total revenue 
(7)
$
 737,176 
$
 696,619 
$
 688,528 
$
 706,464 
Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
91 
 
Table 50 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement, Capital, and Other Data - Continued
(1)
Capital adequacy
2012
December 31,
September 30, 
June 30, 
March 31, 
 
Total risk-weighted assets 
(in millions)
$
 47,773 
$
 45,891 
$
 47,890 
$
 46,716 
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 
 10.36 
%
 10.29 
%
 10.34 
%
 10.55 
%
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 
 12.02 
 11.88 
 11.93 
 12.22 
Total risk-based capital ratio
 
 14.50 
 14.36 
 14.42 
 14.76 
Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio
 
 10.48 
 10.28 
 10.08 
 10.15 
Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(8)
 
 8.76 
 8.74 
 8.41 
 8.33 
Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(9)
 
 9.46 
 9.43 
 9.10 
 9.03 
Tangible common equity / risk-weighted assets ratio
 
 10.20 
 10.14 
 9.85 
 9.86 
  
92 
 
Table 51 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement Data
(1)
 
2011 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
Fourth
Third 
Second 
First 
Interest income
 
$
 485,216 
 
$
 490,996 
 
$
 492,137 
 
$
 501,877 
 
Interest expense
 
 
 70,191 
 
 
 84,518 
 
 
 88,800 
 
 
 97,547 
 
N
et interest income
 
 415,025 
 
 
 406,478 
 
 
 403,337 
 
 
 404,330 
 
Provision for credit losses
 
 45,291 
 
 
 43,586 
 
 
 35,797 
 
 
 49,385 
 
N
et interest income after provision for credit losses
 369,734 
 
 
 362,892 
 
 
 367,540 
 
 
 354,945 
 
Total noninterest income 
 229,352 
 
 
 258,559 
 
 
 255,767 
 
 
 236,945 
 
Total noninterest expense
 430,274 
 
 
 439,118 
 
 
 428,409 
 
 
 430,699 
 
Income before income taxes
 
 168,812 
 
 
 182,333 
 
 
 194,898 
 
 
 161,191 
 
Provision for income taxes
 
 41,954 
 
 
 38,942 
 
 
 48,980 
 
 
 34,745 
 
N
et income
$
 126,858 
 
$
 143,391 
 
$
 145,918 
 
$
 126,446 
 
Dividends on preferred shares
 
 7,703 
 
 
 7,703 
 
 
 7,704 
 
 
 7,703 
 
N
et income applicable to common shares
$
 119,155 
 
$
 135,688 
 
$
 138,214 
 
$
 118,743 
 
Common shares outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average - basic
 
 
 864,136 
 
 
 863,911 
 
 
 863,358 
 
 
 863,359 
 
Average - diluted
(2) 
 
 868,156 
 
 
 867,633 
 
 
 867,469 
 
 
 867,237 
 
Ending
 
 
 864,406 
 
 
 864,075 
 
 
 863,323 
 
 
 863,399 
 
Book value per share
 
$
 5.82 
 
$
 5.83 
 
$
 5.66 
 
$
 5.42 
 
Tangible book value per share
(3) 
 
 5.18 
 
 
 5.17 
 
 
 5.00 
 
 
 4.74 
 
 
 
 
Per common share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income - basic
 
$
 0.14 
 
$
 0.16 
 
$
 0.16 
 
$
 0.14 
 
N
et income  - diluted
 
 
 0.14 
 
 
 0.16 
 
 
 0.16 
 
 
 0.14 
 
Cash dividends declared
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 0.01 
 
 
 0.01 
 
 
 
 
Common stock price, per share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High
(4) 
$
 5.65 
 
$
 6.74 
 
$
 6.92 
 
$
 7.70 
 
Low
(4) 
 
 4.67 
 
 
 4.46 
 
 
 6.00 
 
 
 6.38 
 
Close
 
 
 5.49 
 
 
 4.80 
 
 
 6.56 
 
 
 6.64 
 
Average closing price
 
 
 5.18 
 
 
 5.37 
 
 
 6.51 
 
 
 6.98 
 
 
 
 
Return on average total assets
 
 0.92 
% 
 
 1.05 
% 
 
 1.11 
% 
 
 0.96 
% 
Return on average common shareholders' equity
 
 9.3 
 
 
 10.8 
 
 
 11.6 
 
 
 10.3 
 
Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity
(5)
 
 11.2 
 
 
 13.0 
 
 
 13.3 
 
 
 12.7 
 
Efficiency ratio
(6)
 
 64.0 
 
 
 63.5 
 
 
 62.7 
 
 
 64.7 
 
Effective tax rate (benefit)
 
 24.9 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 
 25.1 
 
 
 21.6 
 
Margin analysis-as a % of average earning assets
(7)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest income
(7) 
 
 3.96 
% 
 
 4.02 
% 
 
 4.14 
% 
 
 4.24 
% 
Interest expense
 
 
 0.58 
 
 
 0.69 
 
 
 0.74 
 
 
 0.82 
 
N
et interest margin 
(7) 
 
 3.38 
% 
 
 3.34 
% 
 
 3.40 
% 
 
 3.42 
% 
 
 
 
Revenue - FTE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et interest income 
 
$
 415,025 
 
$
 406,478 
 
$
 403,337 
 
$
 404,330 
 
FTE adjustment
 
 
 3,479 
 
 
 3,658 
 
 
 3,834 
 
 
 3,945 
 
N
et interest income
(7)
 
 418,504 
 
 
 410,136 
 
 
 407,171 
 
 
 408,275 
 
N
oninterest income
 
 229,352 
 
 
 258,559 
 
 
 255,767 
 
 
 236,945 
 
Total revenue 
(7)
$
 647,856 
 
$
 668,695 
 
$
 662,938 
 
$
 645,220 
 
 
Continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
93 
 
Table 51 - Selected Quarterly Income Statement, Capital, and Other Data - Continued 
(1)
Capital adequacy
 
2011 
 
December 31,
September 30, 
June 30, 
March 31, 
 
 
 
 
Total risk-weighted assets 
(in millions)
 
$
 45,891 
 
$
 44,376 
 
$
 44,080 
 
$
 43,024 
 
Tier 1 leverage ratio
 
 
 10.28 
% 
 
 10.24 
% 
 
 10.25 
% 
 
 9.80 
% 
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 
 
 12.11 
 
 
 12.37 
 
 
 12.14 
 
 
 12.04 
 
Total risk-based capital ratio
 
 
 14.77 
 
 
 15.11 
 
 
 14.89 
 
 
 14.85 
 
Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio
 
 
 10.00 
 
 
 10.17 
 
 
 9.92 
 
 
 9.75 
 
Tangible common equity / tangible asset ratio
(8) 
 
 8.30 
 
 
 8.22 
 
 
 8.22 
 
 
 7.81 
 
Tangible equity / tangible asset ratio
(9) 
 
 9.02 
 
 
 8.88 
 
 
 8.91 
 
 
 8.51 
 
Tangible common equity / risk-weighted assets ratio
 
 9.75 
 
 
 10.08 
 
 
 9.79 
 
 
 9.51 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
Comparisons for presented periods are impacted by a number of factors.  Refer to the Significant Items section for additional 
discussion regarding these items.
 
 
(2)
For all quarterly periods presented above, the impact of the convertible preferred stock issued in April of 2008 was excluded f
rom 
the diluted share calculation because the result would have been higher than basic earnings per common share (anti-dilutive) fo
r the 
periods.
 
 
(3)
Deferred tax liability related to other intangible assets is calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.
 
 
(4)
High and low stock prices are intra-day quotes obtained from NASDAQ.
 
 
(5)
Net income excluding expense for amortization of intangibles for the period divided by average tangible shareholders' equity.  
Average tangible shareholders' equity equals average total stockholders' equity less average intangible assets and goodwill.  E
xpense 
for amortization of intangibles and average intangible assets 
are net of deferred tax liability, and calculated assuming a 35% 
tax rate.
 
 
(6)
Noninterest expense less amortization of intangibles divided by the sum of FTE net interest income and noninterest income 
excluding securities (losses) gains.
 
 
(7)
Presented on a FTE basis assuming a 35% tax rate.
 
 
(8)
Tangible common equity (total common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets
 
less goodwill and other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax
 rate.
 
 
(9)
Tangible equity (total equity less goodwill and other intangible assets) divided by tangible assets (total assets less goodwill
 and 
other intangible assets).  Other intangible assets are net of deferred tax, and calculated assuming a 35% tax rate.
 
 
94 
 
 
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES 
Forward-Looking Statements 
 
 This report, including MD&A, contains
 certain forward-looking statements, including certain plans, expectations, goals, 
projections, and statements, which are subject to numerous assumpti
ons, risks, and uncertainties.  St
atements that do not descr
ibe 
historical or current f
acts, including statements about beliefs and expe
ctations, are forward-looking statements.   The forward
-looking 
statements are intended to be subject to th
e safe harbor provided by Section 27A of
 the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of 
the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
 
While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors whi
ch 
could cause actual results to differ material
ly from those contained or implied in th
e forward-looking statements:  1) worsenin
g of 
credit quality performance due to a number of
 factors such as the underlying value 
of collateral that could prove less valuable
 than 
otherwise assumed and assumed cash flows ma
y be worse than expected; (2) changes in
 economic conditions, including impacts from
 
the implementation of the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Am
erican Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 as well as the continuing 
economic uncertainty in the US, 
the European Union, and other areas; (3) moveme
nts in interest rates; 
(4) competitive pressures
 on 
product pricing and services; (5) success, impact, and timing of our business strategies, including market acceptance of any ne
w 
products or services implementing our ﬁFair Playﬂ banking philo
sophy; (6) changes in accounting policies and principles and the
 
accuracy of our assumptions and estimates used to prepare our financial statements; (7) extended disruption of vital infrastruc
ture; (8) 
the final outcome of significant litigation; (9) the nature, exten
t, timing and results of gover
nmental actions, examinations, 
reviews, 
reforms, and regulations including those related to the Dodd-Fra
nk Wall Street Reform and Consum
er Protection Act; and (10) the
 
outcome of judicial and regulatory decision
s regarding practices in the residential mo
rtgage industry, including among other th
ings the 
processes followed for foreclosin
g residential mortgages.    
 
 
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they
 are made and are based on information available at that time. We 
assume no obligation to update fo
rward-looking statements to reflect circumstances or events that occur after the date the forw
ard-
looking statements were made or to reflect the occurrence of un
anticipated events exce
pt as required by federal securities laws
.  As 
forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, caution should be exercised against placing undue relia
nce on 
such statements. 
 
Non-Regulatory Capital Ratios  
In addition to capital ratios defined by bank
ing regulators, the Company considers vari
ous other measures when evaluating capit
al 
utilization and adequacy, including:  
 
   Ł   Tangible common equity to tangible assets,  
 
   Ł   Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted 
assets using Basel I and Basel III definitions, and 
 
   Ł   Tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets using Basel I definition.  
 
These non-regulatory capital ratio
s are viewed by management as useful additio
nal methods of reflectin
g the level of capital 
available to withstand unexpected market co
nditions. Additionally, presentation of these 
ratios allows reader
s to compare the 
Company™s capitalization to other financial services companies. 
These ratios differ from capital ratios defined by banking regu
lators 
principally in that the numerato
r excludes preferred securities, the nature and ex
tent of which varies among different financia
l services 
companies. These ratios are not defined in Generally Accepted Ac
counting Principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) or federal banking regulations. As
 a 
result, these non-regulatory capital ratios 
disclosed by the Company may be considered non-GAAP financial measures. 
 
Because there are no standardized definitions for these non-regulatory capital ratios, the Company™s calculation methods may 
differ from those used by other financial se
rvices companies. Also, there may be limits in the usefulness of these measures to 
investors. As a result, the Company encourages readers to consider the consolidated financial statements and other financial 
information contained in this Form 10
-K in their entirety, and not to re
ly on any single financial measure. 
 
Risk Factors 
 
More information on risk is set forth under the heading Risk Fact
ors included in Item 1A and incorporated by reference into thi
s 
MD&A.  Additional information regarding risk factors can also be 
found in the Risk Management and Capital discussion, as well a
s 
the Regulatory Matters section included in Item 1 an
d incorporated by reference into the MD&A. 
95 
 
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Use 
of Significant Estimates 
 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accorda
nce with GAAP. The preparation 
of financial statements in 
conformity with GAAP requires us to establish accounting polic
ies and make estimates that af
fect amounts reported in our 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 1 of 
the Notes to Consolidated Fi
nancial Statements, which is in
corporated by reference
 into 
this MD&A, describes the significant accounting policies we
 use in our Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 
An accounting estimate requires assumptions and judgments 
about uncertain matters that could have a material effect on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates are made under facts and circumstances at a point in time, and changes in those fa
cts 
and circumstances could produce results substantially different fro
m those estimates.  The most significant accounting policies
 and 
estimates and their related application are discussed below.  
 
Allowance for Credit Losses
  
 
Our ACL of $0.8 billion at December 31, 2012, represents our es
timate of probable credit losses inhe
rent in our loan and lease 
portfolio and our unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit.
  We regularly review our ACL 
for appropriateness by performi
ng 
on-going evaluations of the loan
 and lease portfolio.  In doing so, we consider factors such as the differing economic risk ass
ociated 
with each loan category, the financial conditio
n of specific borrowers, the level of de
linquent loans, th
e value of any collate
ral and, 
where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or other documented support.  We also evaluate the impact of changes in inter
est 
rates and overall economic conditions on the 
ability of borrowers to meet their financ
ial obligations when 
quantifying our expo
sure to 
credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL at each reporting date.  There is no certainty that our ACL will be 
appropriate over time to cover losses in the 
portfolio because of unanticipated advers
e changes in the eco
nomy, market conditio
ns, or 
events adversely affecting specific customers, industries, or mar
kets.  If the credit quality of our customer base materially d
eteriorates, 
the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers ch
anges materially, or if the ACL is not appropriate, our net inc
ome and 
capital could be materially adversely affected which, in turn, co
uld have a material adverse effect on our financial condition 
and 
results of operations. 
 
In addition, bank regulators periodically review
 our ACL and may require us to increas
e our provision for 
loan and lease losses
 or 
loan charge-offs. Any increase in our ACL or
 loan charge-offs as required by these 
regulatory authorities could have a material
 
adverse effect on our financial co
ndition and results of operations.  
 
Goodwill Impairment
 
 
Goodwill is an intangible asset representin
g the difference between the purchase price
 of an asset and its fair market value an
d is 
created when a company pays a premium to acquire another co
mpany.  We test goodwill for impairment annually, as of October 1, 
using a two-step process that begins with an estimation of the fair value of each reporting unit.  Goodwill impairment exists w
hen a 
reporting unit™s carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.  Goodwill is also tested for impairment on an inter
im basis, 
using the same two-step process as the annual testing, if an event occurs or circumstances change between annual tests that wou
ld 
more likely than not reduce the fair value of 
the reporting unit below its carrying amount.  
The first step (Step 1) of impairment testing requires compar
ing the fair value of each repor
ting unit with goodwill to its car
rying 
value to identify potential impairment. For our annual impairment
 testing conducted during 2012, 
we identified four reporting u
nits 
with goodwill: Retail and Business Banking, Regional and Commercia
l Banking, Wealth Advisors, Gove
rnment Finance, and Home 
Lending (WGH), and Insurance.  Auto Finance and Commercial R
eal Estate was not subject to impairment testing as it had no 
goodwill associated with the 
unit.  In addition, altho
ugh Insurance is included within Trea
sury/Other for business segment repo
rting, it 
was evaluated as a separate reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing because it had its own separately allocated goodwill
 
resulting from prior acquisitions.   
For all four reporting units 
identified in the ab
ove paragraph, we utilized both income an
d market approaches to determine the 
fair 
value for each reporting unit. The income approach was based on 
discounted cash flows derived from assumptions of balance sheet
 
and income statement activity.  An internal forecast was developed by considering several long-term key business drivers such a
s 
anticipated loan and deposit 
growth, net interest margins, and efficiency ratios.
 Long-term growth rates were estimated to assi
st in 
determining the terminal values.  The discount rates were esti
mated based on the Capital Asset Pr
icing Model, which considered 
the 
risk-free interest rate (20-year Tr
easury Bonds), market-risk premium, equity-risk premium, and a company-specific risk factor.
 The 
company-specific risk factor was used to address the uncertainty
 of growth estimates and earnings
 projections of Management. Fo
r the 
market approach, revenue, earnings and 
market capitalization multiples of comparable p
ublic companies were selected and applied
 to 
each reporting unit™s applicable metrics such as book and tangible book values. The results of the income and market approaches
 are 
combined to arrive at the final calculation of fair value.  The aggregate fair market value of the reporting units compared wit
h market 
capitalization indicated an implied premium 
of 6% at September 30, 2012.  A control premium analysis indicated that the implied
 
premium was within range of overall premiums observed in the mark
et place.  All four of the reporting units tested passed Step 
1. 
 
96 
 
The second step (Step 2) of impairment testing is necessary only if the reporting unit does not pass Step 1.  Step 2 compares t
he 
implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the goodwill for the reporting unit.  The implied
 fair 
value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as goodwill 
that is recognized in a busines
s combination. Significant judgme
nt 
and estimates are involved in estimating 
the fair value of the assets and liabilities of
 the reporting unit.  As none of the re
porting units 
failed Step 1, Step 2 was not 
applicable during 
2012 testing. 
Significant judgment is applied when go
odwill is assessed for impairment. This ju
dgment includes developing cash flow 
projections, selecting appropriate discount 
rates, identifying relevant market compar
ables, incorporating general economic and 
market 
conditions, and selecting an 
appropriate control premium. The selection and weig
hting of the various fair
 value techniques may 
result 
in a higher or lower fair value. Judgment is applied in deter
mining the weightings that are most
 representative of fair value. 
 
Due to potential economic 
uncertainties, it is possible that our estimates and a
ssumptions may adversely change in the future. 
If 
our market capitalization decreases, we may be 
required to record goodwill impairment lo
sses in future period
s, whether in conn
ection 
with our next annual impairment testin
g or prior to that time, if any cha
nges constitute a triggering event. 
 
Valuation of Financial Instruments 
 
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result 
in a higher degree of financial statement volatility.  Assets me
asured at 
fair value include mortgage loans held for sale, available-fo
r-sale and trading securities, cer
tain securitized 
automobile loan
s, 
derivatives,  and certain securitization trust notes payable.  At December 31, 2012, approximately $8.4 billion of our assets a
nd $0.2 
billion of our liabilities were record
ed at fair value.  In addition to the above 
mentioned on-going fair value measurements, f
air value 
is also the unit of measure for recording business combinations.
   
At the end of each quarter, we assess the valuation hierarchy for each asset or liability measured at fair value.  As necessary
, 
assets or liabilities may be transferred within fair value hierar
chy levels due to changes in av
ailability of observable market
 inputs to 
measure fair value at the measurement date.   
 
Where available, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is 
determined, using either intern
ally developed or inde
pendent third party valuation models, 
based on inputs that are either dire
ctly 
observable or derived from market data. Th
ese inputs include, but are not limited 
to, interest rate yield
 curves, option volati
lities, or 
option adjusted spreads. 
Where neither quoted market prices 
nor observable market data are av
ailable, fair value is determined 
using 
valuation models that feature one or more significant unobservabl
e inputs based on management™s expectation that market partici
pants 
would use in determining the fair value of the asset or liability. 
The determination of appropri
ate unobservable inputs require
s exercise 
of management judgment. A significant por
tion of our assets and liabilities that are repo
rted at fair value are measured based 
on 
quoted market prices and observabl
e market or independent inputs. 
 
The following is a description of the 
significant estimates used in the valuation of financial assets and liabilities 
for which quoted market prices and observable market parameters are not available. 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed securities 
Our Alt-A, private label CMO and pooled-trust
-preferred securities portfolios are classif
ied as Level 3 and as such use signifi
cant 
estimates to determine the fair value of 
these securities which results in greater 
subjectivity. The Alt-
A and private label CM
O 
securities portfolios are subjected to a mont
hly review of the projected cash flows, 
while the cash flows of our pooled-trust-p
referred 
securities portfolio are reviewed quarterl
y. These reviews are supported
 with analysis from independ
ent third parties, and are 
used as a 
basis for impairment analysis.  
 
Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label C
MO securities are collateralized by first-lien re
sidential mortgage loans. The securit
ies 
valuation methodology incorporates
 values obtained from 
a third party pricing specialist using 
a discounted cash flow approach 
and a 
proprietary pricing model and includes assump
tions management believes market participan
ts would use to value the securities un
der 
current market conditions.  The model uses in
puts such as estimated prep
ayment speeds, losses, recoveries, default rates that a
re 
implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the struc
ture or similar structures, ho
use price depreciation / apprecia
tion rates 
that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates 
that are implied by market prices for similar securities with si
milar 
collateral structures. 
 
Pooled-trust-preferred securities are CDOs backed by a pool of 
debt securities issued by financial institutions. The collateral
 
generally consists of trust-pref
erred securities and subordinated de
bt securities issued by bank
s, bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies. A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within t
his 
portfolio. We engage a third party pricing specialist with direct
 industry experience in pooled-trust-preferred securities valu
ations to 
provide assistance in estimating the fair value and expected cash flows for each security in this portfolio.  The PD of each is
suer and 
the market discount rate are the most signi
ficant inputs in determining fair value. 
 Management evaluates the PD assumptions 
97 
 
provided by the third party pricing specialist 
by comparing the current PD to the a
ssumptions used the previous quarter, actual
 defaults 
and deferrals in the current period, and trend data on certain fi
nancial ratios of the issuers. Huntington also evaluates the a
ssumptions 
related to discount rates.   Relying on
 cash flows is necessary because there was a lack of observable transactions in the mark
et and 
many of the original sponsors or dealers for these securities are 
no longer able to provide a fair
 value that is compliant with
 ASC 820 
 
Derivatives used for hedging purposes
Derivatives designated as qualified hedges are tested for hedge 
effectiveness on a quarterly basis. Assessments are made at the
 
inception of the hedge and on a recurring basis to determine whet
her the derivative used in the hedging transaction has been an
d is 
expected to continue to be highly effectiv
e in offsetting changes in fair values or
 cash flows of the hedged item. A statistica
l 
regression analysis is performed to measure the effectiveness. 
 
 
 If, based on the assessment, a derivative is not expected to be a highly effective hedge or it has ceased to be a highly effec
tive 
hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued 
as of the quarter the hedge is not highly effective. As the statistical regression anal
ysis 
requires the use of estimates regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows which are sensitive to significant changes i
n future 
periods based on changes in market rates, we consider this a critical accounting estimate.  
 
Loans held for sale
Certain residential mortgage loans are classi
fied as held for sale at origination in 
which Huntington has elected to apply the 
fair 
value option.  The fair value is estimated based 
on security prices for similar product types. 
 
Certain consumer and commercial loans are classified as held for sale and are accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or f
air 
value. The determination of fair value for these consumer receivables is based on security prices for similar product types or 
discounted expected cash flows, which takes into consideration f
actors such as future interest rates, prepayment speeds, defaul
t and 
loss curves, and market discount rates. The determination of fair value for commercial loans takes into account factors such as
 the 
location and appraised value of the related collateral, as well as
 the estimated cash flows from realization of the collateral.
 
Mortgage Servicing Rights 
       Retained rights to service mortgage loans are recognized as a separate and distinct asset at the time the loans are sold
.   Mortgage 
servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) are initially recorded at fair value at 
the time the related loans are so
ld and subsequently re-measu
red at 
each reporting date under either the fair value or amortization method.  Any increase or decrease in fair value of MSRs account
ed for 
under the fair value method, as well as any amortization and/or im
pairment of MSRs recorded under the amortization method, is 
reflected in earnings in the period that the changes occur. MSRs are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value wil
l fluctuate as 
a result of changes in the interest rate environ
ment. Fair value is determined based upon
 the application of an income approach
 
valuation model based. The valuation model, 
maintained by an independent 
third party, incorporates assumptions in estimating fu
ture 
cash flows. These assumptions include time decay, payoffs, and changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. The reasonableness 
of 
these pricing models is validated on a minimum of a quarte
rly basis by at least one independent external service broker valuati
on. 
Because the fair values of MSRs are significantly impacted by the use of estimates, the use of different assumption estimates c
an 
result in different estimated fair values of those MSRs. 
  
Pension Valuation 
 
Pension plan assets consist of mutual 
funds, corporate bonds, US gove
rnment bonds and our common stock.  Investments are 
accounted for at cost on the trade date and are reported at fair value.  Mutual funds are valued at quoted Net Asset Value.  Ou
r 
common stock is traded on a national 
securities exchange and is valued at
 the last reported sales price.   
 
The discount rate and expected return on 
plan assets used to determine the benef
it obligation and pension expense are both 
significant assumptions.  Actual resu
lts may be materially different.  
(See Note 18 of the Notes to
 the Consolidated Financial 
Statements).
 
Contingent Liabilities 
We are parties to various claims, litigation, and legal proc
eedings resulting from ordinary 
business activities relating to our
 
current and/or former operations.  We estimate and provide for 
potential losses that may arise ou
t of litigation and regulatory
 
proceedings to the extent that such losses 
are probable and can be reas
onably estimated. Significant 
judgment is required in ma
king 
these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be more
 or less than the current es
timate. Our total estimated liabili
ty in respect 
of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses af
ter 
considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in simil
ar cases 
98 
 
or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
 legal counsel.  Litigation 
exposure represents a key 
area of judgment and is subj
ect to 
uncertainty and certain factor
s outside of our control.  
Income Taxes  
 
The calculation of our provision for income taxes is complex an
d requires the use of estimates and judgments. We have two 
accruals for income taxes: (1) our income tax payable represents the estimated net amount currently due to the federal, state, 
and local 
taxing jurisdictions, net of any reserve for potential audit issues
, and is reported as a component of accrued income and other
 assets in 
our consolidated balance sheet; (2) our deferred federal and st
ate income tax and related valuati
on accounts, reported as a com
ponent 
of accrued income and other assets, represents the estimated impact of temporary differences between how we recognize our asset
s 
and liabilities under GAAP, and how such a
ssets and liabilities are recognized under federal and state tax law.   
 
In the ordinary course of business, we oper
ate in various taxing jurisdictions and are 
subject to income and non-income taxes. 
The 
effective tax rate is based in part on our interpretation of th
e relevant current tax laws. We
 believe the aggregate liabilitie
s related to 
taxes are appropriately reflected in the consolidated financial statements. We review the appropriate tax treatment of all tran
sactions 
taking into consideration statuto
ry, judicial, and regulatory guidan
ce in the context of our tax positions. In addition, we rel
y on various 
tax opinions, recent tax audits, and historical experience.  
 
From time-to-time, we engage in business transactions that ma
y affect our tax liabilities. Where appropriate, we have obtained 
opinions of outside experts and have assessed the relative merits
 and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of business transa
ctions 
taking into account s
tatutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance in the cont
ext of the tax position. However, changes to our es
timates of 
accrued taxes can occur due to changes in tax rates, implementation of new business strategies, resolution of issues with taxin
g 
authorities regarding previously taken tax 
positions, and newly enacted 
statutory, judicial, and re
gulatory guidance.
 Such chan
ges 
could affect the amount of our accrued taxes and could be material to our financial position and / or results of operations. 
(See Note 17 
of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial 
Statements.)
 
Deferred Tax Assets  
 
At December 31, 2012, we had a net federal deferred tax asset of $171.5 million and a net state deferred tax asset of $32.4 
million. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more-lik
ely-than-not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not
 be 
realized. All available evidence,
 both positive and negative, was considered to 
determine whether, based on the weight of that 
evidence, impairment should be recognized. Our forecast process includes judgmental and quantitative elements that may be subje
ct to 
significant change. If our forecast of taxable income within the 
carryforward periods available u
nder applicable law is not suf
ficient to 
cover the amount of net deferred tax assets, such assets may be impaired. Based on our analysis of both positive and negative e
vidence 
and our ability to offset the net deferred tax assets against our forecasted future taxable income, there was no impairment of 
the net 
deferred tax assets at December 31, 2012. 
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Developments 
Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements discusses new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2012 and the expected 
impact of accounting pronouncements 
recently issued bu
t not yet required to be adopted.  
To the extent the adoption of new 
accounting standards materially affect financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity, the impacts are discussed in t
he 
applicable section of this MD&A and the No
tes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
 
Information required by this item is set 
forth under the heading of ﬁMarket Riskﬂ in
 Item 7 (MD&A), which is incorporated 
by reference into this item. 
 
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
 
Information required by this item is set 
forth in the Report of Independent Register
ed Public Accounting Firm, Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Notes, and Selected Quarterly Income Stateme
nts, which is incorporated by
 reference into this item. 
  
 
REP
O
The 
M
and r
e
State
m
respe
avail
a
traini
b
roa
d
com
m
p
ubli
c
contr
o
to, a
n
com
m
relati
n
inter
n
the c
e
 
REP
O
 
Man
a
inclu
d
trans
a
p
erm
i
Unit
e
Dece
m
of th
e
that, 
a
Com
p
inde
p
 
 
 
 
Step
h
 
 
 
Don
a
 
Febr
u
 
 
O
RT OF MA
N
M
anage
m
ent o
f
e
presentations 
m
ents have be
e
cts, they refle
c
a
ble informati
o
ng of qualifie
d
d
 program of i
n
m
ittee of the b
o
c
 accounting 
fi
o
ls and financ
i
n
d meet confid
e
m
ittee. This co
m
n
g to the fina
n
n
al auditors, a
n
e
rtification of 
t
O
RT OF MA
N
a
gement is res
p
d
ing accounti
n
a
ctions are pro
i
t the preparat
i
e
d States. Hun
t
m
ber 31, 2012
e
 Treadway C
o
a
s of Decemb
e
p
any™s in
t
erna
l
p
endent registe
r
h
en D. Steinou
r
a
ld R. Kimble 
Œ
u
ary 15, 2013 
N
AGEMEN
T
f
 Huntington 
B
contained in t
h
e
n prepared in 
c
t the substanc
e
o
n. Manageme
n
d
 personnel, ap
n
ternal audits. 
T
o
ard of directo
r
i
rm, Deloitte 
&
i
al reporting 
m
e
ntially with, t
h
m
mittee™s pur
p
n
cial and opera
t
n
d the audit co
m
t
hose reports b
y
N
AGEMEN
T
p
onsible for es
t
n
g and other in
t
p
erly authoriz
e
i
on of the Con
s
t
ington™s Man
a
. In making th
i
o
mmission (C
O
e
r 31, 2012, th
e
l
 control over 
f
r
ed public acc
o
r
 Œ Chairman, 
P
Œ
 Senior Exec
u
T
B
ancshares Inc
o
h
e Consolidat
e
conformity w
i
e
 of transactio
n
n
t maintains a 
propriate segr
e
T
he costs of t
h
r
s met regularl
y
&
 Touche LLP
,
m
atters. The in
d
h
e audit com
m
p
ose is to desi
g
t
ing condition 
m
mittee of the 
y
 the chief ex
e
T
™S ASSESS
M
t
ablishing and 
t
ernal control 
s
e
d, (2) the ass
e
s
olidated Fina
n
a
gement assess
i
s assessment, 
O
SO) in 
Intern
a
e
 Company™s i
n
f
inancial repor
t
o
unting firm, 
a
P
resident, and 
 
u
tive Vice Pre
s
 
o
rporated (Hu
n
e
d Financial St
a
i
th accounting 
n
s that should 
b
system of inte
r
e
gation of res
p
h
e controls are 
b
y
 with Manag
e
,
 to review the 
d
ependent regi
s
m
ittee to discus
g
n and maintai
n
of Huntington 
board of dire
c
e
cutive officer 
ENT OF INT
maintaining a
d
s
ystems that, i
n
e
ts are properl
y
n
cial Statemen
t
ed the effecti
v
Management 
u
a
l ControlŠIn
n
ternal control 
t
ing as of Dec
e
a
s stated in the
i
 
Chief Executi
v
s
ident and Chi
e
99 
n
tington or th
e
a
tements and 
o
principles gen
e
b
e included ba
r
nal accountin
g
onsibilities, c
o
b
alanced agai
n
e
ment, Huntin
g
scope of the a
u
s
tered public a
c
s appropriate 
m
n
 disclosure c
o
is properly re
p
c
tors in connec
t
and the chief 
f
ERNAL CO
N
d
equate intern
a
n
 the opinion 
o
y
 safeguarded, 
t
s in conformi
t
eness of the C
o
u
sed the criteri
tegrated Fra
m
over financia
l
e
mber 31, 201
2
i
r report appea
r
v
e Officer  
e
f Financial O
f
e
 Company) is 
o
ther sections 
o
erally accepte
d
a
sed on inform
e
g controls, wh
o
mmunication 
n
st the expecte
g
ton™s internal 
u
dits and to di
s
c
counting fir
m
m
atters. Also, 
H
o
ntrols and pro
p
orted to its c
h
tion with the 
p
f
inancial offic
e
N
TROL OVE
R
a
l control over 
o
f Managemen
t
and (3) transa
c
t
y with accoun
o
mpany™s inte
r
i
a set forth by 
t
m
ewor
k
. Based 
l
 reporting is e
f
2
 has been aud
i
ring on the ne
x
f
fice
r
 
responsible fo
r
o
f this report. 
T
d
 in the Unite
d
e
d judgments, 
ich includes t
h
of written poli
d benefits. Du
r
auditors, and 
t
s
cuss the eval
u
m
 and the inter
n
H
untington m
a
cedures to ens
u
h
ief executive 
o
p
reparation an
d
e
r. 
R
 FINANCI
A
financial repo
r
t
, provide reas
o
c
tions are pro
p
n
ting principle
s
r
nal control o
v
t
he Committe
e
on that assess
m
f
fective based 
ited by Deloit
t
x
t page. 
r
 the financial 
T
he Consolida
t
d
 States. In all 
m
estimates, and 
h
e careful sele
c
cies and proce
r
ing 2012, the 
t
he independe
n
u
ation of inter
n
n
al auditors ha
v
a
intains a discl
o
u
re that mater
i
o
fficer, chief f
i
d
 filing of peri
o
A
L REPORTI
N
rting for the C
o
nable assura
n
p
erly recorded 
a
s
 generally acc
e
v
er financial re
p
e
 of Sponsorin
g
m
ent, Manage
m
on those crite
r
t
e & Touche L
L
information 
t
ed Financial 
m
aterial 
cur
r
ently 
c
tion and 
e
dures, and a 
audit 
n
t regis
t
ered 
n
al accounting 
v
e free access 
o
sure review 
i
al informatio
n
i
nancial office
r
o
dic reports an
d
N
G
 
ompany, 
n
ce tha
t
 (1) 
a
nd reported t
o
e
pted in the 
p
orting as of 
g
 Organiza
t
ion
m
ent believes 
r
ia. The 
L
P, an 
n
 
r
, 
d
 
o
 
s
 
 
REP
O
 
To t
h
Hunt
i
Colu
m
 
We 
h
ﬁCo
m
b
y t
h
for 
m
cont
r
over 
repo
r
We 
c
Stat
e
inter
n
unde
eval
u
proc
e
opin
i
A co
prin
c
com
p
of fi
n
acce
p
proc
e
trans
as n
e
and 
t
and 
d
una
u
state
m
Bec
a
impr
on a 
futu
r
degr
e
In o
u
Dec
e
Co
m
We 
h
Stat
e
repo
r
 
 
 
 
Col
u
Febr
u
 
O
RT OF IN
D
h
e Board of Di
r
i
ngton Bancsh
a
m
bus, Ohio 
h
ave audited 
t
m
panyﬂ) as o
f
h
e Committe
e
m
aintaining e
f
r
ol over fina
n
Financial Re
p
r
ting based o
n
c
onducted ou
r
e
s). Those sta
n
n
al control o
v
e
rstanding of 
i
u
ating the de
s
e
dures as we 
i
on. 
mpany™s inte
c
ipal executi
v
p
any™s board 
n
ancial repor
t
p
ted account
i
e
dures that (1
actions and 
d
e
cessary to p
e
t
hat receipts 
a
d
irectors of t
h
u
thorized acq
u
m
ents. 
a
use of the in
h
oper manage
m
timely basis. 
r
e periods are 
e
e of compli
a
u
r opinion, th
e
e
mbe
r
 31, 20
1
m
mittee of Sp
o
h
ave also aud
i
e
s), the conso
l
r
t dated Febr
u
u
mbus, Ohio 
u
ary 15, 201
3
D
EPENDENT 
r
ectors and Sh
a
a
res Incorpora
t
t
he internal c
o
f
 Decembe
r
 3
e
 of Sponsori
n
f
fective inter
n
n
cial reportin
g
p
orting. Our 
r
n
 our audit.  
r
 audit in acc
o
n
dards requi
r
v
er financial 
r
i
nternal cont
r
s
ign and oper
a
considered n
e
r
nal control 
o
v
e and princi
p
of directors, 
m
t
ing and the 
p
ng principles
) pertain to t
h
d
ispositions o
f
e
rmit prepara
t
a
nd expendit
u
h
e company; 
a
u
isition, use, 
o
h
erent limitat
i
m
ent overrid
e
Also, projec
t
subject to th
e
a
nce with the 
e
 Company 
m
1
2, based on 
t
o
nsoring Org
a
i
ted, in accor
d
l
idated finan
c
u
ary 15, 201
3
3
 
REGISTER
E
a
reholders of 
t
e
d
 
o
ntrol over fi
n
1, 2012, bas
e
n
g Organizati
n
al control o
v
g
, included in 
r
esponsibilit
y
o
rdance with 
r
e that we pla
n
r
eporting wa
s
r
ol over finan
c
a
ting effectiv
e
cessary in t
h
o
ver financial 
p
al financial 
o
m
anagement
,
p
reparation o
f
. A company
h
e maintenan
f
 the assets o
f
t
ion of financ
i
u
res of the co
m
a
nd (3) provi
d
o
r dispositio
n
i
ons of inter
n
e
 of controls, 
t
ions of any e
e
 risk that th
e
policies or p
r
m
aintained, i
n
t
he criteria es
t
a
nizations of 
d
ance with t
h
c
ial statemen
t
3
 expressed a
n
 
E
D PUBLIC 
A
n
ancial repor
t
e
d on criteria 
ons of the Tr
e
v
er financial r
e
the accomp
a
y
 is to expres
s
the standard
s
n
 and perfor
m
s
 maintained 
i
c
ial reportin
g
eness of inte
r
h
e circumsta
n
reporting is 
a
o
fficers, or pe
r
,
 and other p
e
f
 financial sta
t
™s internal co
n
c
e of records 
f
 the compan
y
i
al statement
s
m
pany are be
d
e reasonabl
e
n
 of the comp
a
n
al control ov
e
material mis
s
valuation of 
t
e
 controls ma
y
r
ocedures ma
y
n
 all material 
r
t
ablished in 
I
t
he Treadwa
y
h
e standards 
o
t
s as of and f
o
n
 unqualified 
100 
A
CCOUNTIN
G
t
ing of Hunti
n
established i
n
e
adway Com
m
e
porting and 
a
nying Repor
t
s
 an opinion 
o
s
 of the Publi
c
m
 the audit to 
i
n all materia
l
g
, assessing t
h
r
nal control b
ces. We beli
e
a
 process des
i
r
sons perfor
m
e
rsonnel to pr
o
t
ements for e
x
n
trol over fi
n
that, in reas
o
y
; (2) provid
e
s
 in accordan
c
ing made on
l
e
 assurance r
e
a
ny™s assets 
t
e
r financial r
e
s
tatements d
u
t
he effective
n
y
 become ina
d
y
 deteriorate. 
r
espects, effe
c
I
nternal Cont
r
y
 Commissio
n
o
f the Public 
C
o
r the year en
d
opinion on t
h
G
 FIRM 
n
gton Bancs
h
n
 
Internal Co
mission. The 
for its assess
m
t
 of Manage
m
o
n the Comp
a
c
 Company 
A
obtain reaso
n
l
 respects. O
u
h
e risk that a 
m
ased on the a
e
ve that our a
u
igned by, or 
u
m
ing similar 
f
o
vide reason
a
x
ternal purp
o
n
ancial report
i
o
nable detail, 
e
 reasonable 
a
c
e with gene
r
l
y in accorda
n
e
garding pre
v
t
hat could ha
v
e
porting, incl
u
u
e to error or 
n
ess of the in
t
dequate beca
u
  
c
tive internal
r
o
l
 Š Integr
a
n
. 
C
ompany Ac
c
ded Decemb
e
h
ose financia
l
h
ares Incorpo
ntro
l
 Š Inte
g
Company™s 
m
m
ent of the e
m
ent™s Assess
m
a
ny™s interna
l
A
ccounting O
v
n
able assura
n
u
r audit inclu
d
m
aterial wea
k
a
ssessed risk, 
u
dit provide
s
u
nder the su
p
f
unctions, an
d
a
ble assuranc
o
ses in accor
d
i
ng includes 
t
accurately a
n
a
ssurance tha
t
r
ally accepte
d
n
ce with auth
o
v
ention or ti
m
v
e a material 
uding the po
s
fraud may n
o
t
ernal control 
u
se of chang
e
l
 control over 
a
ted Framew
o
c
ounting Ov
e
er
 31, 2012 o
f
l
 statements. 
o
rated and su
b
g
rated Fram
e
m
anagement 
ffectiveness 
o
ment of Inte
r
l
 control over 
versight Boa
r
n
ce abou
t
 wh
e
d
ed obtainin
g
k
ness exists, 
t
and performi
s
 a reasonabl
e
p
ervision of, t
h
d
 effected by 
e regarding t
h
d
ance with ge
n
t
hose policie
s
n
d fairly refle
t
 transaction
s
d
 accounting 
p
o
rizations of 
m
ely detection 
effect on the 
s
sibility of c
o
o
t 
b
e prevent
e
over financi
a
e
s in conditi
o
financial rep
o
r
k
 issued by 
e
rsight Board 
f
 the Compa
n
b
sidiaries (th
e
e
work
issued 
is responsibl
e
o
f internal 
r
nal Control 
financial 
r
d (United 
e
ther effectiv
e
g
 an 
t
esting and 
ng such othe
r
e
 basis for ou
r
h
e company™
s
the 
h
e reliability 
n
erally 
s
 and 
ct the 
s
 are recorde
d
p
rinciples, 
management 
of 
financial 
o
llusion or 
e
d or detecte
d
a
l reporting t
o
o
ns, or that th
e
orting as of 
the 
(United 
n
y and our 
e
 
e
 
e
 
r
 
r
 
s
 
d
 
d
 
o
 
e
 
 
REP
O
 
To t
h
Hunt
i
Colu
m
 
We 
h
(the 
ﬁ
inco
m
201
2
opin
i
We 
c
Stat
e
fina
n
the a
and 
s
b
elie
In o
u
Hun
t
oper
a
acco
u
We 
h
Stat
e
in 
In
t
Co
m
over 
 
 
 
 
Colu
m
Febr
u
O
RT OF IN
D
h
e Board of Di
r
i
ngton Bancsh
a
m
bus, Ohio 
h
ave audited 
t
ﬁ
Companyﬂ) 
m
e, changes 
i
2
. These fina
n
i
on on these 
f
c
onducted ou
r
e
s). Those sta
n
n
cial stateme
n
mounts and 
d
s
ignificant es
t
ve that our a
u
u
r opinion, su
t
ington Banc
s
a
tions and th
e
u
nting princi
p
h
ave also aud
i
e
s), the Comp
t
ernal Contr
o
m
mission and 
o
financial rep
o
m
bus, Ohio 
u
ary 15, 2013 
D
EPENDENT 
r
ectors and Sh
a
a
res Incorpora
t
t
he accompa
n
as of Decem
b
i
n shareholde
r
n
cial stateme
n
f
inancial stat
e
r
 audits in ac
c
n
dards requi
r
n
ts are free o
f
d
isclosures in 
t
imates made 
u
dits provide 
ch consolida
t
s
hares Incorp
o
e
ir cash flow
s
p
les generall
y
i
ted, in accor
d
any™s intern
a
ol
 Š Integrat
e
o
ur report da
t
o
rting. 
REGISTER
E
a
reholders of 
t
e
d
 
n
ying consoli
d
b
e
r
 31, 2012 
a
r
s™ equity, an
n
ts are the res
p
e
ments based 
c
ordance wit
h
r
e that we pla
n
f
material mis
the financial 
by manage
m
a reasonable 
t
ed financial 
s
o
rated and s
u
s
 for each of 
t
y
 accepted in 
d
ance with t
h
l control ove
r
e
d Framewo
r
t
ed February 
E
D PUBLIC 
A
d
ated balanc
e
a
nd 2011, an
d
d cash flows 
p
onsibility o
f
on our audit
s
h
 the standar
d
n
 and perfor
m
statement. A
n
statements. 
A
m
ent, as well 
a
basis for our 
s
tatements pr
e
u
bsidiaries as 
t
he three year
the United S
t
h
e standards 
o
r
 financial re
p
rk
 issued by t
h
15, 2013 exp
r
101 
A
CCOUNTIN
G
e
 sheets of H
u
d
 the related 
c
for each of t
h
f
 the Compan
s
. 
d
s of the Publ
m
 the audit to 
n
 audit inclu
d
A
n audit also 
a
s evaluating 
opinion. 
e
sent fairly, i
n
of Decembe
r
s in the perio
t
ates of Ame
r
o
f the Public 
C
p
orting as of 
D
h
e Committe
e
r
essed an un
q
G
 FIRM 
u
ntington Ba
n
c
onsolidated 
h
e three year
s
n
y™s manage
m
ic Company 
A
obtain reaso
n
d
es examinin
g
includes ass
e
the overall fi
n
n all materia
l
31, 2012 an
d
d ended Dec
e
r
ica. 
C
ompany Ac
c
D
ecembe
r
 31
e
 of Sponsor
i
q
ualified opi
n
n
cshares Inco
statements o
f
s
 in the perio
d
m
ent. Our res
p
A
ccounting 
O
n
able assura
n
g
, on a test b
a
e
ssing the ac
c
n
ancial state
m
l
 respects, th
e
d
 2011, and t
h
e
mbe
r
 31, 20
1
c
ounting Ov
e
, 2012, base
d
i
ng Organiza
t
n
ion on the C
o
rporated and 
f
 income, co
m
d
 ended Dece
m
p
onsibility is 
t
O
versight Bo
a
n
ce about wh
e
a
sis, evidenc
e
c
ounting prin
c
m
ent present
a
e
 financial po
s
h
e results of 
t
1
2, in confor
m
e
rsight Board 
d
 on the crite
r
t
ions of the T
r
o
mpany™s int
e
subsidiaries 
m
prehensive 
m
be
r
 31, 
t
o express an 
a
rd (United 
e
ther the 
e
 supporting 
c
iples used 
a
tion. We 
s
ition of 
t
heir 
m
ity with 
(United 
r
ia establishe
d
r
eadway 
e
rnal control 
d
 
102 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except number of shares)
 
2012
2011 
Assets
 
Cash and due from banks
 
$
 1,262,806 
$
 1,115,968 
Interest-bearing deposits in banks 
 70,921 
 90,943 
Trading account securities 
 91,205 
 45,899 
Loans held for sale 
 764,309 
 1,618,391 
 
(includes $452,949 and $343,588 respectively, measured at fair value)
(
1
)
Available-for-sale and other securities
 
 7,566,175 
 8,078,014 
Held-to-maturity securities 
 1,743,876 
 640,551 
Loans and leases (includes $142,762 and $296,250 respectively, measured at fair value):
(
2
)
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial loans and leases
 
 16,970,689 
 14,699,371 
 
 
Commercial real estate loans
 
 5,399,240 
 5,825,709 
 
 
Automobile loans and leases
 
 4,633,820 
 4,457,446 
 
 
Home equity loans
 
 8,335,342 
 8,215,413 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans
 
 4,969,672 
 5,228,276 
 
 
Other consumer loans
 
 419,662 
 497,568 
 
Loans and leases
 
 40,728,425 
 38,923,783 
 
Allowance for loan and lease losses
 
 (769,075)
 (964,828)
N
et loans and leases 
 39,959,350 
 37,958,955 
Bank owned life insurance 
 1,596,056 
 1,549,783 
Premises and equipment 
 617,257 
 564,429 
Goodwill 
 444,268 
 444,268 
Other intangible assets 
 132,157 
 175,302 
Accrued income and other assets 
 1,904,805 
 
 2,168,149 
Total assets
 
$
 56,153,185 
$
 54,450,652 
Liabilities and shareholders' equity
 
Liabilities
 
 
Deposits in domestic offices
 
 
 
Demand deposits - noninterest-bearing
 
$
 12,599,636 
$
 11,157,805 
 
 
Interest-bearing
 
 33,375,016 
 31,761,039 
 
Deposits in foreign offices
 
 278,031 
 360,781 
Deposits 
 46,252,683 
 43,279,625 
Short-term borrowings 
 589,814 
 1,441,092 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 1,008,959 
 362,972 
Other long-term debt (includes $123,039 at December 31, 2011, measured at fair value)
(
2
)
 
 158,784 
 1,231,517 
Subordinated notes 
 1,197,091 
 1,503,368 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 1,155,643 
 
 1,213,978 
Total liabilities
 
 50,362,974 
 49,032,552 
Shareholders' equity
 
Preferred stock - authorized 6,617,808 shares;
 
 
Series A, 8.50% fixed rate, non-cumulative perpetual convertible preferred
 
 
stock, par value of $0.01, and liquidation value per share of $1,000 
 362,507 
 
 362,507 
 
Series B, floating rate, non-voting, non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, par value 
 
 
of $0.01, and liquidation value per share of $1,000 
 
 23,785 
 
 23,785 
Common stock 
 8,441 
 
 8,656 
Capital surplus 
 7,475,149 
 
 7,596,809 
Less treasury shares, at cost 
 (10,921)
 
 (10,255)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (150,817)
 
 (173,763)
Retained (deficit) earnings 
 (1,917,933)
 
 (2,389,639)
Total shareholders' equity
 
 5,790,211 
 5,418,100 
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
 
$
 56,153,185 
$
 54,450,652 
Common shares authorized (par value of $0.01)
 
 1,500,000,000 
 1,500,000,000 
Common shares issued 
 844,105,349 
 865,584,517 
Common shares outstanding 
 842,812,709 
 864,406,152 
Treasury shares outstanding 
 1,292,640 
 1,178,365 
Preferred shares issued 
 1,967,071 
 1,967,071 
Preferred shares outstanding 
 398,007 
 398,007 
(1)
Amounts represent loans for which Huntington has elected the fair value option. See Note 19.
(2)
Amounts represent certain assets and liabilities of a consolidated VIE for which Huntington has elected the fair value option. 
 See Note 21.
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
103 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
2012
2011 
2010  
Interest and fee income: 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans and leases 
$
 1,675,295
$
 1,727,784 
$ 
 1,865,848 
Available-for-sale and other securities 
 
 
 
Taxable 
 
 184,340
 207,984 
 
 239,065 
 
Tax-exempt  
 
 8,999
 9,785 
 
 11,680 
Held-to-maturity securities 
 
 24,088
 11,213 
 
 ---
Other
 
 37,541
 13,460 
 
 28,799 
Total interest income 
 
 1,930,263
 1,970,226 
 
 2,145,392 
Interest expense 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits 
 
 162,167
 260,052 
 
 439,050 
 
Short-term borrowings 
 
 2,048
 3,500 
 
 3,007 
 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 
 819
 824 
 
 3,121 
 
Subordinated notes and other long-term debt 
 
 54,705
 76,680 
 
 81,409 
Total interest expense 
 
 219,739
 341,056 
 
 526,587 
N
et interest income 
 
 1,710,524
 1,629,170 
 
 1,618,805 
Provision for credit losses 
 
 147,388
 174,059 
 
 634,547 
N
et interest income after provision for credit losses 
 
 1,563,136
 1,455,111 
 
 984,258 
Service charges on deposit accounts  
 
 262,179
 243,507 
 
 267,015 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 191,092
 83,408 
 
 175,782 
Trust services 
 
 121,897
 119,382 
 
 112,555 
Electronic banking 
 
 82,290
 111,697 
 
 110,234 
Brokerage income 
 
 72,226
 80,367 
 
 68,855 
Insurance income 
 
 71,319
 69,470 
 
 76,413 
Gain on sale of loans 
 
 58,182
 31,944 
 
 6,275 
Bank owned life insurance income 
 
 56,042
 62,336 
 
 61,066 
Capital markets fees 
 
 48,160
 36,540 
 
 23,886 
N
et gains on sales of securities 
 
 6,388
 3,682 
 
 13,448 
Impairment losses recognized in earnings on available-for-sale securities (a) 
 
 (1,619)
 (7,363)
 
 (13,722)
Other income 
 
 129,701
 145,653 
 
 140,051 
Total noninterest income  
 
 1,097,857
 980,623 
 
 1,041,858 
Personnel costs 
 
 988,193
 892,534 
 
 798,973 
Outside data processing and other services 
 
 190,255
 189,174 
 
 161,814 
N
et occupancy 
 
 111,160
 109,129 
 
 107,862 
Equipment 
 
 102,947
 92,544 
 
 85,920 
Deposit and other insurance expense 
 
 68,330
 77,692 
 
 97,548 
Professional services 
 
 65,758
 68,616 
 
 86,211 
Marketing 
 
 64,263
 65,560 
 
 56,347 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 46,549
 53,318 
 
 60,478 
OREO and foreclosure expense 
 
 18,271
 18,006 
 
 39,049 
Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
 
 (798)
 (9,697)
 
 ---
Other expense 
 
 180,948
 171,624 
 
 179,603 
Total noninterest expense 
 
 1,835,876
 1,728,500 
 
 1,673,805 
Income before income taxes 
 
 825,117
 707,234 
 
 352,311 
Provision for income taxes 
 
 184,095
 164,621 
 
 39,964 
N
et income 
 
 641,022
 542,613 
 
 312,347 
Dividends on preferred shares 
 
 31,989
 30,813 
 
 172,032 
N
et income applicable to common shares 
$ 
 609,033
$
 511,800 
$ 
 140,315 
Average common shares - basic 
 
 857,962
 863,691 
 
 726,934 
Average common shares - diluted 
 
 863,402
 867,624 
 
 729,532 
Per common share: 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income - basic 
$ 
 0.71
$
 0.59 
$ 
 0.19 
N
et income - diluted 
 
 0.71
 0.59 
 
 0.19 
Cash dividends declared 
 
 0.16
 0.10 
 
 0.04 
(a) The following OTTI losses are included in securities losses for the periods presented: 
 
 
 
 
 
Total OTTI losses  
$ 
 (1,886)
$
 (8,791)
$ 
 (17,088)
N
oncredit-related portion of loss recognized in OCI 
 
 267
 1,428 
 
 3,366 
N
et impairment credit losses recognized in earnings 
$ 
 (1,619)
$
 (7,363)
$ 
 (13,722)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements 
of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012
 
2011  
 
 
2010
 
N
et income
 
$
 641,022 
$
 542,613 
 
$
 312,347 
 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
 
 
 
Unrealized gains on available-for-sale and other securities: 
 
 
 
N
on-credit-related impairment recoveries (losses)
 
 
 
on debt securities not expected to be sold 
 12,490 
 7,499 
 
 15,320 
 
Unrealized net gains (losses) 
on available-for-sale and other
 
 
 
securities arising during the 
period, net of reclassification 
 
 
 
for net realized gains 
 55,305 
 64,921 
 
 (9,406)
 
Total unrealized gains on
 available-for-sale and other securities
 67,795 
 72,420 
 
 5,914 
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedging derivatives
 6,186 
 5,188 
 
 (23,155)
 
Change in accumulated unrealized losses for pension and
 
 
 
other post-retirement obligations
 (51,035)
 (53,875)
 
 (19,021)
 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 22,946 
 23,733 
 
 (36,262)
 
Comprehensive income
$
 663,968 
$
 566,346 
 
$
 276,085 
 
See Notes to Consolidated
 Financial Statements
 
 
 
105 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Series A 
 
Series B  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other 
Retained 
 
 
(all amounts in thousands,
 
 
 
Floating Rate 
Common Stock 
Capital 
 
Treasury Stock 
Comprehensive
Earnings 
 
 
except for per share amounts)
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
Shares 
 
Amount 
Surplus 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Loss 
 
(Deficit) 
 
Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance, beginning of year 
 
363 
$
362,507 
 
35 
$
23,785
865,585
$
8,656 
$
7,596,809 
 
(1,178)
$
(10,255)
$ 
(173,763)
$
(2,389,639)
$
5,418,100 
N
et income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
641,022 
 
641,022 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22,946 
 
 
 
22,946 
Repurchases of common stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(23,328)
 
(233)
 
(148,648)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(148,881)
Cash dividends declared: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common ($0.16 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(136,887)
 
(136,887)
 
Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(30,813)
 
(30,813)
 
Preferred Series B ($33.14 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1,176)
 
(1,176)
Recognition of the fair value of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
share-based compensation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27,873 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27,873 
Other share-based compensation activity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,848
 
18 
 
(795)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(348)
 
(1,125)
Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(90)
 
(114)
 
(666)
 
 
 
(92)
 
(848)
Balance, end of year  
 
363 
$
362,507 
 
35 
$
23,785
844,105
$
8,441 
$
7,475,149 
 
(1,292)
$
(10,921)
$
(150,817)
$
(1,917,933)
$
5,790,211 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
106 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Series A 
 
Series B  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other 
Retained 
 
 
(all amounts in thousands,
 
 
 
Floating Rate 
Common Stock 
Capital 
 
Treasury Stock 
Comprehensive
Earnings 
 
 
except for per share amounts)
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
Shares 
 
Amount 
Surplus 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Loss 
 
(Deficit) 
 
Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance, beginning of year 
 
363 
$
362,507 
 
 ---
$
 ---
864,195
$
8,642 
$
7,630,093 
 
(876)
$
(8,771)
$ 
(197,496)
$
(2,814,433)
$
4,980,542 
N
et income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
542,613 
 
542,613 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23,733 
 
 
 
23,733 
Issuance of preferred stock 
 
 
 
 
 
35 
 
23,785
 
 
 
 
(1,759)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22,026 
Repurchase of warrants convertible to 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
common stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(49,100)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(49,100)
Cash dividends declared: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common ($0.10 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(86,448)
 
(86,448)
 
Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(30,813)
 
(30,813)
Recognition of the fair value of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
share-based compensation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19,666 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19,666 
Other share-based compensation activity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,390
 
14 
 
(1,605)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(343)
 
(1,934)
Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(486)
 
(302)
 
(1,484)
 
 
 
(215)
 
(2,185)
Balance, end of year  
 
363 
$
362,507 
 
35 
$
23,785
865,585
$
8,656 
$
7,596,809 
 
(1,178)
$
(10,255)
$
(173,763)
$
(2,389,639)
$
5,418,100 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
107 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Series B 
 
Series A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other 
Retained 
 
 
(all amounts in thousands, 
 
Fixed Rate 
 
 
 
Common Stock 
Capital 
 
Treasury Stock 
Comprehensive
Earnings 
 
 
except for per share amounts)
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Shares 
 
Amount
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
Surplus 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Loss 
 
(Deficit) 
 
Total 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Balance, beginning of year 
 
1,398 
$
1,325,008 
 
363 
$
362,507
 
716,741
$
7,167 
$
6,731,796 
 
(980)
$
(11,465)
$ 
(156,985)
$
(2,922,026)
$
5,336,002 
 
Cumulative effect of change in accounting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
principle for consolidation of variable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interest entities, net of tax of $3,097 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,249)
 
 (1,821)
 
 (6,070)
Balance, beginning of year, as adjusted 
 
1,398 
 
1,325,008 
 
363 
 
362,507
 
716,741
 
7,167 
 
6,731,796 
 
(980)
(11,465)
 
(161,234)
(2,923,847)
5,329,932 
N
et income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
312,347 
 
312,347 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(36,262)
 
 
 
(36,262)
Issuance of common stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
146,568
 
1,465 
 
884,707 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
886,172 
Repurchase of Preferred Series B stock 
 
(1,398)
 
(1,398,071)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,398,071)
Preferred Series B stock discount 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accretion and redemption 
 
 
 
73,063 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(73,063)
 
 ---
Cash dividends declared: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common ($0.04 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(30,139)
 
(30,139)
 
Preferred Series B ($48.75 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(68,156)
 
(68,156)
 
Preferred Series A ($85.00 per share) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(30,813)
 
(30,813)
Recognition of the fair value of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
share-based compensation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
15,449 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15,453 
Other share-based compensation activity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
886
 
6 
 
482 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(535)
 
(47)
Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2,341)
 
104
 
2,694 
 
 
 
(227)
 
126 
Balance, end of year  
 
 ---
$
 ---
 
363 
$
362,507
 
864,195
$
8,642 
$
7,630,093 
 
(876)
$
(8,771)
$
(197,496)
$
(2,814,433)
$
4,980,542 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012
2011
2010
Operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income 
$
 641,022 
$ 
 542,613
 
$
 312,347 
 
Adjustments to reconcile net income (l
oss) to net cash provided by operating 
activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for credit losses 
 
 147,388 
 
 174,059
 
 634,547 
 
 
Depreciation and amortization 
 
 274,572 
 
 282,105
 
 286,186 
 
 
Change in current and deferred income taxes 
 
 177,706 
 
 84,555
 
 161,367 
 
 
N
et sales (purchases) of trading account securities 
 
 (45,306)
 
 139,505
 
 (101,747)
 
 
Originations of loans held for sale 
 (3,814,572)
 
 (2,414,172)
 
 (3,864,273)
 
 
Principal payments on and proceeds from loans held for sale 
 
 3,731,465 
 
 2,820,797
 
 3,535,550 
 
 
Gain on early extinguishment of debt 
 (798)
 
 (9,697)
 
 ---
 
 
Bargain purchase gain 
 (11,217)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
N
et gain on sales of securities 
 (6,388)
 
 (3,682)
 
 (13,448)
 
 
Impairment losses recognized in 
earnings on available-for-sale securities 
 1,619 
 
 7,363
 
 13,722 
 
 
Other, net 
 
 (93,361)
 
 (28,659)
 
 (123,428)
Net cash provided by (used for) operating activities
 1,002,130 
 
 1,594,787
 
 840,823 
Investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decrease (increase) in interest-bearing deposits in banks 
 
 70,980 
 
 50,093
 
 162,913 
 
N
et cash received in acquisitions 
 40,258 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Proceeds from: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maturities and calls of available-for-sale and other securities 
 
 1,776,594 
 
 2,489,049
 
 3,288,714 
 
 
Maturities of held-to-maturity securities 
 113,576 
 
 31,163
 
 ---
 
 
Sales of available-for-sale and other securities 
 
 957,930 
 
 3,205,884
 
 4,280,518 
 
Purchases of available-for-sale and other securities 
 (2,384,824)
 
 (4,283,866)
 
 (8,769,767)
 
Purchases of held-to-maturity securities 
 (941,119)
 
 (204,082)
 
 ---
 
N
et proceeds from sales of loans 
 
 3,092,643 
 
 1,640,237
 
 941,615 
 
N
et loan and lease activity, excluding sales 
 
 (3,287,000)
 
 (4,148,424)
 
 (2,764,575)
 
Proceeds from sale of operating lease assets 
 30,322 
 
 62,744
 
 34,930 
 
Purchases of premises and equipment 
 
 (129,641)
 
 (143,763)
 
 (68,200)
 
Proceeds from sales of other real estate 
 
 56,762 
 
 55,817
 
 113,298 
 
Purchases of loans and leases 
 (484,157)
 
 (59,885)
 
 ---
 
Other, net 
 4,698 
 
 327
 
 3,770 
Net cash provided by (used for) investing activities
 (1,082,978)
 
 (1,304,706)
 
 (2,776,784)
Financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increase (decrease) in deposits 
 
 2,262,213 
 
 1,420,944
 
 1,353,227 
 
Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 
 
 (939,979)
 
 (580,335)
 
 1,128,887 
 
N
et proceeds from issuance of subordinated notes 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 297,375 
 
Maturity/redemption of subordinated notes 
 
 (305,010)
 
 (5,000)
 
 (83,870)
 
Proceeds from Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 2,515,000 
 
 550,000
 
 450,000 
 
Maturity/redemption of Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 (1,914,281)
 
 (359,732)
 
 (446,718)
 
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 60,805 
 
Maturity/redemption of long-term debt 
 (1,070,804)
 
 (902,652)
 
 (848,756)
 
Repurchase of Warrant to the Treasury 
 ---
 
 (49,100)
 
 ---
 
Dividends paid on preferred stock 
 (31,719)
 
 (30,813)
 
 (107,901)
 
Dividends paid on common stock 
 
 (137,616)
 
 (61,591)
 
 (28,598)
 
Costs to issue preferred stock 
 ---
 
 (1,759)
 
 ---
 
Payment to repurchase preferred stock 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (1,398,071)
 
Repurchase of common stock 
 (148,881)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
N
et proceeds from issuance of common stoc
k
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 886,172 
 
Other, net 
 (1,237)
 
 (1,963)
 
 (47)
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities
 227,686 
 
 (22,001)
 
 1,262,505 
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 146,838 
 
 268,080
 
 (673,456)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
 
 1,115,968 
 
 847,888
 
 1,521,344 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
 
$
 1,262,806 
$ 
 1,115,968
 
$
 847,888 
  
109 
 
Supplemental disclosures: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income taxes paid (refunded) 
$
 6,389 
$ 
 80,065
 
$
 (121,401)
 
Interest paid 
 231,897 
 
 357,212
 
 552,955 
 
N
on-cash activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividends accrued, paid in subsequent quarter 
 47,312 
 
 40,771
 
 23,373 
 
 
Trust Preferred Securities exchange 
 ---
 
 35,500
 
 ---
 
 
Transfer of securities to held-t
o-maturity from available for sale 
 278,748 
 
 469,070
 
 ---
 
 
Loans transferred to loans held for sale 
 306,261 
 
 1,268,132
 
 537,906 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 
 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 
       
Nature of Operations Š 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporate
d (Huntington or the Company) is 
a multi-state diversified regional 
bank holding company organized under Mary
land law in 1966 and headquartered in Co
lumbus, Ohio. Through its subsidiaries, 
including its bank subsidiary, The Huntington
 National Bank (the Bank), Huntington is
 engaged in providing full-service commerc
ial, 
small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking se
rvices, automobile financing, equipment leasing, investment 
management, trust services, brokerage services, customized in
surance programs, and other financial products and services. 
Huntington™s banking offices are 
located in Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana,
 West Virginia, and Kentucky.  Select financi
al 
services and other activities are also conducted in various othe
r states.  International bankin
g services are available through
 the 
headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio and a limited purpose 
office located in Cayman Islands and another in Hong Kong. 
 
       
Basis of Presentation Š 
The Consolidated Financial Statement
s include the accounts of Huntin
gton and its majority-owned 
subsidiaries and are presented 
in accordance with GAAP. All in
tercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in 
consolidation. Companies in
 which Huntington holds mo
re than a 50% voting equ
ity interest, or 
a controlling fina
ncial interest,
 or are 
a VIE in which Huntington i.) has the po
wer to direct the activities of an entity th
at most significantly impact the entity™s e
conomic 
performance and  ii.) has an obligation to ab
sorb losses or the right to receive bene
fits from the VIE which could potentially 
be 
significant to the VIE are consolidated. VIEs
 are legal entities with insubstantial equ
ity, whose equity investors lack the abi
lity to 
make decisions about the entity™s activities, or whose equity investors do not have the right to receive the residual returns o
f the entity 
if they occur. VIEs in which Huntington
 does not hold the power to direct the 
activities of the entity that most significantly 
impact the 
entity™s economic performance or  does not have an obligation  to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE  
which 
could potentially be significant to the VIE are not consolidated
. For consolidated entities where 
Huntington holds less than a 
100% 
interest, Huntington recognizes noncontrollin
g interest (included in shar
eholders™ equity) for the equ
ity held by others and 
noncontrolling profit or loss (included in no
ninterest expense) for the portion of th
e entity™s earnings attributable to other™
s interests. 
Investments in companies that 
are not consolidated are accounted for using the equ
ity method when Huntington has the ability to
 exert 
significant influence. Those investments in
 nonmarketable securities for which Hunti
ngton does not have the ability to exert 
significant influence are generally accounted for using the cost method.  Investments in private investment partnerships that a
re 
accounted for under the equity method or the cost method are included in accrued income and other assets and Huntington™s 
proportional interest in the equity investments™ earnings are included in other noninterest income. Investment interests accoun
ted for 
under the cost and equity methods are 
periodically evaluated for impairment.  
  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
 requires Management to make estimates and assumptions that 
significantly affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Huntington utilizes processes that involve the 
use of 
significant estimates and the judgments of 
Management in determining the amount of its
 allowance for credit losses, income taxe
s 
deferred tax assets, and contingent liabilities, as well as fair va
lue measurements of investment securities, derivatives, good
will, 
pension, mortgage servicing rights, and loan
s held for sale. As with any estimate, actua
l results could differ from those estim
ates.  
 
Certain prior period amounts have be
en reclassified to conform to the current year™s presentation. 
 
       
Resale and Repurchase Agreements Š 
Securities purchased under agreements to rese
ll and securities sold under agreements to 
repurchase are treated as collateralized fina
ncing transactions and are recorded at th
e amounts at which th
e securities were ac
quired or 
sold plus accrued interest. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third party is continually monit
ored and 
additional collateral is obtained or is requ
ested to be returned to Huntington as
 in accordance with the agreement. 
 
Securities Š 
Securities purchased with the intention 
of recognizing short-term prof
its or which are actively bought and sold are 
classified as trading account securities and 
reported at fair value. The unrealized ga
ins or losses on trading account securiti
es are 
recorded in other noninterest income, exce
pt for gains and losses on trading account 
securities used to hedge the fair value of
 MSRs, 
which are included in mortgage banking in
come.  Debt securities purchased in which 
Huntington has the po
sitive intent and abili
ty to 
hold to its maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securitie
s. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost.
  All other 
debt and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale 
and other securities.Unrealized gains or losses on available-fo
r-sale and 
other securities are reported as a separate component of accumulated OCI in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Sharehold
ers™ 
Equity. Credit-related declines in the valu
e of debt and marketable equity securities
 that are considered other-than-temporary 
are 
recorded in noninterest income. 
 
 
 
111 
 
Huntington evaluates its investment secur
ities portfolio on a quarterly basis for indicators of OTTI.  Huntington assesses whet
her 
OTTI has occurred when the fair value of a debt security is less than the amortized cost basis at the balance sheet date.  Mana
gement 
reviews the amount of unrealized
 loss, the length of time the security has been
 in an unrealized loss 
position, the credit rati
ng history, 
market trends of similar security classes, time remaining to matu
rity, and the source of both interest and principal payments t
o identify 
securities which could potentially be impaired.  OTTI is considered
 to have occurred (1) if Huntington intends to sell the secu
rity; 
(2) if it is more likely than not Huntington
 will be required to sell the security be
fore recovery of its amortized cost basis;
 or (3) the 
present value of expected cash flows are not sufficient to recove
r all contractually required principal and interest payments. 
 For 
securities that Huntington does no
t expect to sell, or it is not more likely than 
not to be required to sell, the OTTI is separ
ated into 
credit and noncredit components.  A discounted cash flow analysis, which includes evaluating the timing of the expected cash fl
ows, 
is completed for all debt securities subject to credit impairment.  The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to th
e 
difference between the debt security™s cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the sec
urity™s 
effective yield.  The credit-related OTTI, re
presented by the expected loss in principal, is recognized in noninterest income. 
 The 
remaining difference between the security™s fair value and the present value of future expected cash flows is due to factors th
at are not 
credit-related and, therefore, are recognized
 in OCI.  Huntington believes that it w
ill fully collect the carrying value of sec
urities on 
which noncredit-related OTTI has been reco
gnized in OCI.  Noncredit-related OTTI results from other factors, including increase
d 
liquidity spreads and extension of the secur
ity. For securities which Huntington does e
xpect to sell, or if it is more likely t
han not 
Huntington will be required to sell the s
ecurity before recovery of its amortized cost
 basis, all OTTI is recognized in earning
s. 
Presentation of OTTI is made in the Consolidated Statements of
 Income on a gross basis with a reduction for the amount of OTTI 
recognized in OCI. Once an OTTI is recorded, when future cash flows can be reasonably estimated, future cash flows are re-alloc
ated 
between interest and principal cash flows to
 provide for a level-yield on the security.  
 
Securities transactions are recognized on the trade date (the da
te the order to buy or sell is 
executed). The carrying value pl
us any 
related OCI balance of sold securities is used
 to compute realized gains and losses. In
terest and dividends on securities, incl
uding 
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the effective interest method over the period to maturity, are includ
ed in 
interest income. 
 
Nonmarketable equity securities include stock acquired for regul
atory purposes, such as Federa
l Home Loan Bank stock and 
Federal Reserve Bank stock. These securities are accounted for at
 cost, evaluated for 
impairment, and inclu
ded in available-for
-sale 
and other securities. 
 
       
Loans and Leases Š 
Loans and direct financing leases for which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable 
future, or until maturity or payoff, are classi
fied in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
as loans and leases
. Except for loans wh
ich are 
subject to fair value requirements, loans and leases are carried
 at the principal amount outstanding, net of unamortized deferr
ed loan 
origination fees and costs and net of unearned income. Direct
 financing leases are reported at the aggregate of lease payments 
receivable and estimated residual values, net of unearned and deferred income. Interest income is accrued as earned using the i
nterest 
method based on unpaid principal balances. Huntington defers the fees it receives from the origination of loans and leases, as 
well as 
the direct costs of those activities.  Huntington also acquires lo
ans at a premium and at a discount to their contractual value
s.  
Huntington amortizes loan discounts, premiums, and net loan ori
gination fees and costs on a le
vel-yield basis over the estimate
d lives 
of the related loans.   
 
Troubled debt restructurings are loans for which the original contr
actual terms have been modified to provide a concession to a
 
borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loan modifications ar
e considered TDRs when the co
ncessions provided are not avai
lable 
to the borrower through either normal channels or other sources
. However, not all loan modifi
cations are TDRs
. Modifications 
resulting in troubled debt restructurings ma
y include changes to one or more terms of
 the loan, including 
but not limited to, a
 change 
in interest rate, an extension 
of the amortization period, a reduction in payment 
amount and partial forgiv
eness or deferment o
f 
principal or accrued interest.   
 
Residual values on leased automobiles and equipment are evaluate
d quarterly for impairment. Impairment of the residual values 
of direct financing leases determined to be 
other than temporary is recognized by writin
g the leases down to fair value with a 
charge to 
other noninterest expense. Resi
dual value losses arise if the 
expected fair value at the end of
 the lease term is less than the
 residual 
value recorded at the lease origination, ne
t of estimated amounts reimbursable by the lessee.  Future declines in the expected 
residual 
value of the leased equipment would result in
 expected losses of the leased equipment. 
 
For leased equipment, the residual component of a direct financing lease represents the estimated fair value of the leased 
equipment at the end of the lease term.  Huntington uses industry data, historical experience, and independent appraisals to es
tablish 
these residual value estimates.  Additional information regardin
g product life cycle, product upgra
des, as well as insight into
 
competing products are obtained through relationships with indu
stry contacts and are factored into residual value estimates whe
re 
applicable.   
 
112 
 
       Loans Held for Sale Š 
Loans that Huntington has the intent to sell or securitize are classified as loans held for sale. Loans held 
for sale (excluding loans originated or acquire
d with the intent to sell, which are carried at fair value) are carried at the l
ower of cost or 
fair value less cost to sell.  The fair value option was 
elected for mortgage loans held for sale to facilitate hedging of the 
loans. Fair 
value is determined based on collateral valu
e and prevailing market prices
 for loans with similar ch
aracteristics.   Nonmortgag
e loans 
held for sale are measured on an aggregate asset basis.  
 
Subsequent declines in fair value are reco
gnized either as a charge-off 
or as noninterest income, 
depending on the length of ti
me 
the loan has been record
ed as loans held for sale.  When a decision is ma
de to sell a loan that wa
s not originated or initially
 acquired 
with the intent to sell, the loan is reclassified into loans held for sale. 
 
Huntington consolidated an automobile loan securitization in which the associated loan receivables are held at fair value.  The
 
valuation of the loan receivables and notes payable are evaluated on a quarterly basis with any market value changes recorded i
n 
noninterest income.  The key assumptions us
ed to determine the fair value of the au
tomobile loans includes a projection of expe
cted 
losses and prepayment of the underlying loans in the portfolio and 
a market assumption of interest rates.  The notes payable ar
e valued 
based on interest rates for similar financial assets.   
 
       
Allowance for Credit Losses Š 
Huntington maintains two reserves, both of wh
ich reflect Management™s judgment regarding the 
appropriate level necessary to absorb credit losses inherent in our loan and lease portfolio: the ALLL and the AULC.  Combined,
 these 
reserves comprise the total ACL.  The de
termination of the ACL requires significant
 estimates, including the timing and amounts
 of 
expected future cash flows on impaired
 loans and leases, consideration of current
 economic conditions, and historical loss expe
rience 
pertaining to pools of homogeneo
us loans and leases, all of whic
h may be susceptible to change. 
 
The appropriateness of the ACL is based on Ma
nagement™s current judgments about the 
credit quality of the lo
an portfolio.  Thes
e 
judgments consider on-going evaluations of the loan and lease portfolio, including such factors as the differing economic risks
 
associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific borrowers, the level of delinquent loans, the value of 
any 
collateral and, where applicable, the existenc
e of any guarantees or other documented support. Further, Management evaluates th
e 
impact of changes in interest rates and ove
rall economic conditions on the ability of
 borrowers to meet their financial obligat
ions when 
quantifying our exposure to credit losses and assessing the appropriateness of our ACL at each reporting date. In addition to g
eneral 
economic conditions and the other factors de
scribed above, additional factors also co
nsidered include: the impact of declining 
residential real estate values; the diversification of CRE loans; the 
development of new or expanded Commercial business segmen
ts 
such as healthcare, ABL, and energy, and 
the overall condition of the ma
nufacturing industry.  Also, the ACL assessment include
s the 
on-going assessment of credit quality metrics,
 and a comparison of certain ACL benchmar
ks to current performance.  Management™s
 
determinations regarding the appropriateness of the ACL are 
reviewed and approved by the Company™s board of directors. 
 
The ALLL consists of two components: (1) the transaction reserve, which includes a loan level allocation per ASC 310-10, 
specific reserves related to loans considered to be impaired, and 
loans involved in troubled de
bt restructurings allocated per 
ASC 310-
40, and (2) the general reserve.   The transaction reserve compone
nt includes both (1) an estima
te of loss based on pools of 
commercial and consumer loans and leases with similar characteristics and (2) an estimate of loss based on an impairment review
 of 
each impaired C&I and CRE loan greater than $1.0 million. For the C&I and CRE portfolios, the estimate of loss based on pools o
f 
loans and leases with similar characteristics is made by applying a 
PD factor and a LGD 
factor to each indivi
dual loan based on
 a 
continuously updated loan grade, using a standardized loan grading
 system.  The PD factor and an LGD factor are determined for 
each 
loan grade using statistical models based 
on historical performance data
. The PD factor considers on-going reviews of the finan
cial 
performance of the specific borrower, including cash flow, debt-s
ervice coverage ratio, earnings po
wer, debt level, and equity 
position, in conjunction with an assessment 
of the borrower™s industry and future prosp
ects.  The LGD factor considers analysis
 of the 
type of collateral and the relative LTV ratio.  
These reserve factors are developed base
d on credit migration models that track
 
historical movements of loans between loan ratings over time a
nd a combination of long-term aver
age loss experience of our own 
portfolio and external industry data 
using a 24-month emergence period.   
 
In the case of more homogeneous portfolios, 
such as automobile loans, home equity lo
ans, and residential mortgage loans, the 
determination of the transaction reserve also incorporates PD and 
LGD factors.  The estimate of loss
 is based on pools of loans
 and 
leases with similar characteristics.  The PD factor considers 
current credit scores unless the account is delinquent, in which 
case a 
higher PD factor is used.  The credit score provides a basis fo
r understanding the borrower™s pa
st and current payment performa
nce, 
and this information is used to estimate expected losses ove
r the 12-month emergence period.  The performance of first-lien loa
ns 
ahead of our junior-lien loans is available to use as part of our updated score process.  The LGD factor considers analysis of 
the type 
of collateral and the relative LTV ratio.  Credit scores, models, anal
yses, and other factors used to determine both the PD and
 LGD 
factors are updated frequently to capture the recent behavioral characteristics of the subject portfolios, as well as any chang
es in loss 
mitigation or credit origination strategies, 
and adjustments to the reserve factors ar
e made as required.  Models utilized in t
he ALLL 
estimation process are subject to the Company™s model validation policies.   
  
  
113 
 
The general reserve consists of the economic reserve and risk-p
rofile reserve components.  The economic reserve component 
considers the potential impact of changing market and economic 
conditions on portfolio performan
ce.  The risk-profile component
 
considers items unique to our structure,
 policies, processes, and portfolio compos
ition, as well as qualitative measurements an
d 
assessments of the loan port
folios including, but not limited to
, management quality, concentrations, portfolio composition, in
dustry 
comparisons, and internal review functions.  
 
The estimate for the AULC is determined using the same procedures a
nd methodologies as used for the ALLL.  The loss factors use
d 
in the AULC are the same as the loss factors used in the ALLL while also considering a historical utilization of unused commitm
ents.  
The AULC is reflected in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
 
       Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans Š 
Loans are considered past due when the cont
ractual amounts due with 
respect to principal 
and interest are not received within 30 days of the contractual due date.  
 
Any loan in any portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies described below when collection of principal
 or 
interest is in doubt. When a borrower with de
bt is discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptc
y and not reaffirmed 
by the borrower, the
 loan is 
determined to be collateral dependent and placed on nonaccrual status. 
 
All classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios (except for purchased credit-impaired loans) are placed on nonaccrual status at 9
0-
days past due.  First-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due.  Junior-lien home equity loa
ns are 
placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due or when the related first-lien loan has been identified as nona
ccrual.  
Automobile and other consumer loans are generally charged-off when
 the loan is 120-days past due.  Residential mortgage loans a
re 
placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of residential mortgages guaranteed by government agencies
 
which continue to accrue interest at the 
rate guaranteed by the government agency.  We are reimbursed from the government agenc
y 
for reasonable expenses incurred in servicing loans.  The FHA 
reimburses us for 66% of expenses, and the VA reimburses us at a 
maximum percentage of guarantee which is established for each individual loan.  We have not experienced either material losses 
in 
excess of guarantee caps or significant delays or re
jected claims from the 
related government entity. 
For all classes within all loan portfolios, when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, any accrued interest income is reversed
 with 
current year accruals charged to interest income, 
and prior year amounts charged-off as a credit loss.
For all classes within all loan portfolios, cash receipts received on NALs are applied against principal until the loan or leas
e has 
been collected in full, after which time any additional cash receipts are recognized as interest income. However, for secured n
on-
reaffirmed debt in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, payments are applied to principal and interest when the borrower has demonstrated a 
capacity to continue payment of the debt a
nd collection of the debt is reas
onably assured.  Fo
r unsecured non-re
affirmed debt i
n a 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy wher
e the carrying value has been fully charged-off, payments are recorded as loan recoveries. 
Regarding all classes within the C&I and CR
E portfolios, the determinati
on of a borrower's ability to
 make the required princip
al 
and interest payments is based on an examination of the borr
ower's current financial statements, industry, management capabilit
ies, 
and other qualitative measures. For all classes 
within the consumer loan portfolio, 
the determination of a borrower's ability t
o make the 
required principal and interest payments is 
based on multiple factors, including number 
of days past due and, in some instances
, an 
evaluation of the borrower's financial condition. When, in Manage
ment's judgment, the borrower's ability to make required princ
ipal 
and interest payments resumes and collectability is no longer in doubt, the loan is returned to accrual status. For these loans
 that have 
been returned to accrual status, cash receipts are applied according to the contractual terms of the loan.
 
       Charge-off of Uncollectible Loans Š 
Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-o
ff prior to the policies described below if a 
loss confirming event has occurred.  Loss confirming events incl
ude, but are not limited to, ba
nkruptcy (unsecured), continued 
delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an asset valuation indicating a collateral deficiency and that asset is the sole source
 of 
repayment. Additionally, discharged, collateral dependent non-reaffi
rmed debt in Chapter 7 bank
ruptcy filings will result in a 
charge-
off to estimated collateral value, less anticipated selling costs.   
 
C&I and CRE loans are either charged-off or written down to ne
t realizable value at 90-days past 
due.  Automobile loans and 
other consumer loan
s are charged-off at 120-days past 
due. First-lien and junior-lien home 
equity loans are 
charged-off to the 
estimated fair value of the collateral, les
s anticipated selling costs, at 150-days past
 due and 120-days pa
st due, respectivel
y.  
Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estima
ted fair value of the collateral at 150-days past due. 
 
       Impaired Loans Š 
For all classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios, all lo
ans with an outstanding ba
lance of $1.0 million or 
greater are evaluated on a quarterly basis for impairment.  Ge
nerally, consumer loans within any class are not individually eva
luated 
on a regular basis for impairment.  All TDRs, regardless of the out
standing balance amount, are also considered to be impaired.
  Loans 
acquired with evidence of deterioration in credit quality sin
ce origination for which it is 
probable at acquisition that all co
ntractually 
required payments will not be collected 
are also considered to be impaired. 
 
114 
 
Once a loan has been identified for an assessment of impairment, the loan is considered impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not b
e 
collected.  This determination requires sign
ificant judgment and use of estimates, and the eventual outcome may differ signific
antly 
from those estimates.  
 
When a loan in any class has been determined to be impaired, 
the amount of the impairment is measured using the present value 
of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient, the observable mar
ket price of 
the loan, or the fair va
lue of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, if 
the loan is collateral depe
ndent.  When the p
resent value of 
expected future cash flows is used, the effective interest rate is
 the original contractual interest rate of the loan adjusted 
for any 
premium or discount.  When the contractual 
interest rate is variable, 
the effective interest rate of 
the loan changes over time
.  A 
specific reserve is established as a component of the ALLL when a 
loan has been determined to be impaired.  Subsequent to the i
nitial 
measurement of impairment, if there is a si
gnificant change to the impaired loan's expected future cash flows, or if actual cas
h flows 
are significantly different from the cash flows previously estimated, Huntington recalculates the impairment and appropriately 
adjusts 
the specific reserve. Similarly, if Huntington measures impairment
 based on the observable market 
price of an impaired loan or 
the 
fair value of the collateral of an impaired collateral dependen
t loan, Huntington will adjust the specific reserve. 
 
When a loan within any class is impaired, the accrual of interest income is discontinued unless the receipt of principal and in
terest 
is no longer in doubt.  Interest income on TDRs is accrued when all principal and interest is expected to be collected under th
e post-
modification terms.  Cash receipts received on nonaccruing impaired loans within any class are generally applied entirely again
st 
principal until the loan has been
 collected in full, after which 
time any additional cash receipts
 are recognized as interest i
ncome.  
Cash receipts received on accruing impaired loans within any class are applied in the same manner as accruing loans that are no
t 
considered impaired.
 
       Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans
 
Š
 Purchased loans with evidence of deterior
ation in credit quality since origination for 
which it is probable at acquisition that we 
will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are considered to be 
credit 
impaired. Purchased credit-impaired loans ar
e initially recorded at fair va
lue, which is estimated by
 discounting the cash flow
s 
expected to be collected at the acquisition date. Because the estimate of expected cash flows reflects an estimate of future cr
edit losses 
expected to be incurred over the life of th
e loans, an allowance for credit losses is 
not recorded at the 
acquisition date. The
 excess of 
cash flows expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value,
 referred to as the accretable 
yield, is recognized in interes
t income 
over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, on a leve
l-yield basis. The difference between the contractually require
d payments 
at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acqui
sition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. A sub
sequent 
decrease in the estimate of cash flows expected to be received on purchased credit-impaired loans generally results in the reco
gnition 
of an allowance for credit losses. Subsequent increases in cash flows result in reversal of any nonaccretable difference (or al
lowance 
for loan and lease losses to the ex
tent any has been recorded) with
 a positive impact on interest 
income subseque
ntly recognize
d.  The 
measurement of cash flows involves assumptions and judgments for interest rates, prepayments, default rates, loss severity, and
 
collateral values.  All of these factors are 
inherently subjective and si
gnificant changes in the cash flow estimates over the 
life of the 
loan can result. 
 
       Transfers of Financial Assets and Securitizations
 
Š
 Transfers of financial assets in which we have surrendered control over 
the transferred assets are accounted for as sales. In assessing whethe
r control has been surrendered,
 we consider whether the t
ransferee 
would be a consolidated affiliate, the exis
tence and extent of any continui
ng involvement in the tr
ansferred financial assets, 
and the 
impact of all arrangements or agreements made contemporaneously with, or in contemplation of, the transfer, even if they were n
ot 
entered into at the time of tran
sfer. Control is generally considered to have been surrendered when (i) the transferred assets 
have been 
legally isolated from us or any of our consolidated affiliates, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, (ii) the transferee (
or, if the 
transferee is an entity whose sole purpose is to engage in s
ecuritization or asset-backed financing that is constrained from pl
edging or 
exchanging the assets it receives, each third-party holder of its beneficial interests) has the right to pledge or exchange the
 assets (or 
beneficial interests) it received without any constraints that provide more than a trivial benefit to us, and (iii) neither we 
nor our 
consolidated affiliates and ag
ents have (a) both the right an
d obligation under any agreement to 
repurchase or redeem the trans
ferred 
assets before their maturity, (b) the un
ilateral ability to cause the holder to return
 specific financial assets that also prov
ides us with a 
more-than-trivial benefit (other than through a cleanup call) or (c) 
an agreement that permits the transferee to require us to 
repurchase 
the transferred assets at a price so favorable that it is
 probable that it will require us to repurchase them.  
 
If the sale criteria are met, the transferred financial assets are 
removed from our balance sheet an
d a gain or loss on sale is
 
recognized. If the sale criteria are not met, the transfer is recorded as a secured borrowing in which the assets remain on our
 balance 
sheet and the proceeds 
from the transaction are recognized 
as a liability. For the majority of financial asset transfers, it is
 clear whether 
or not we have surrendered control. For other transfers, such as 
in connection with complex transactions or where we have conti
nuing 
involvement, we generally ob
tain a legal opinion as to 
whether the transfer results in a true sale by law.  
 
We have historically securitized certain automobile receivables. Gains and losses on the loans and leases sold and servicing ri
ghts 
associated with loan and lease sales are determined when the related
 loans or leases are sold to either a securitization trust 
or third 
party.  For loan or lease sales with servicin
g retained, a servicing asset 
is recorded at fair value 
for the right to service t
he loans sold. 
115 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments Š 
A variety of derivative financial instruments, pr
incipally interest rate swaps, caps, floors, 
and collars, are used in ass
et and liability management activities to protect again
st the risk of adverse price or interest rat
e movements. 
These instruments provide flexibility in adju
sting Huntington™s sensitivity to changes 
in interest rates with
out exposure to lo
ss of 
principal and higher funding requirements.  
 
Huntington also uses derivatives, principally
 loan sale commitments, in hedging its mort
gage loan interest rate lock commitment
s 
and its mortgage loans held for sale.  Mo
rtgage loan sale commitments
 and the related interest rate
 lock commitments are carrie
d at 
fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fa
ir value reflected in mortgage ba
nking revenue.  Huntington als
o uses 
certain derivative financial instruments to 
offset changes in value of its MSRs.  Thes
e derivatives consist primarily of forwar
d interest 
rate agreements and forward mortgage contracts.  The derivative in
struments used are not designated
 as hedges.  Accordingly, su
ch 
derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes in
 fair value reflected in mortgage banking income.   
 
Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in accrued 
income and other assets or accrued expens
es and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value.  On the date a der
ivative 
contract is entered into, we designate it as either: 
 
Ł a qualifying hedge of the fair value of 
a recognized asset or liability 
or of an unrecognized firm 
commitment (fair value    
       
   hedge); 
 
Ł a qualifying hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset liability or forecas
ted  
   transaction (cash flow hedge); or 
 
Ł a trading instrument or a non-qualifying (economic) hedge. 
 
Changes in the fair value of a derivative th
at has been designated and qualifies as a 
fair value hedge, along with the changes 
in the 
fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to
 the hedged risk, are recorded 
in current period earnings. C
hanges in the 
fair value of a derivative that has been designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, to the extent effective as a hedge, are
 recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, and reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedg
ed 
item affects earnings. Ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship is reflected in current period earnings. Changes in the fair
 value of 
derivatives held for trading purposes or which do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are reported in current period earnings.  
 
       For those derivatives to which hedge accounting is ap
plied, Huntington formally documen
ts the hedging relationship and t
he risk 
management objective and str
ategy for undertaking the he
dge. This documentation identifies th
e hedging instrument, the hedged i
tem 
or transaction, the nature of the risk 
being hedged, and, unless the hedge meets all of the criteria to assume there is no inef
fectiveness, 
the method that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument and how ineffectiveness will be measured. Th
e 
methods utilized to assess retrospective hedge effectiveness, as well as the frequency of testing, vary based on the type of it
em being 
hedged and the designated hedge period. For specifically designated 
fair value hedges of certain fixed-rate debt, Huntington ut
ilizes 
the short-cut method when
 certain criteria are met. For other fair value 
hedges of fixed-rate debt, including certificates of d
eposit,   
Huntington utilizes the regression method to evaluate hedge effectiv
eness on a quarterly basis. For fair value hedges of portfo
lio loans, 
the regression method is used to evaluate effectiveness on a da
ily basis. For cash flow hedges, the regression method is applie
d on a 
quarterly basis.  
 
Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when: 
 
Ł the derivative is no longer e
ffective or expected to be effectiv
e in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a 
  
          hedged item (including firm commitments or forecasted transactions); 
 
Ł the derivative expires or is 
sold, terminated
, or exercised; 
 
Ł it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur; 
 
Ł the hedged firm commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or 
 
Ł the designation of the derivative as
 a hedging instrument is removed. 
 
When hedge accounting is 
discontinued because it is determined
 that the derivative no longer 
qualifies as an effective fair val
ue 
or cash flow hedge, the derivative will continue to 
be carried on the balance sheet at fair value.  
 
 
 
116 
 
In the case of a discontinued fair value hedge of a recognized a
sset or liability, as long as the 
hedged item continues to exis
t on 
the balance sheet, the hedged item 
will no longer be adjusted for 
changes in fair value. The ba
sis adjustment that had previous
ly been 
recorded to the hedged item during the period from the hedge desi
gnation date to the hedge discontinuation date is recognized a
s an 
adjustment to the yield of 
the hedged item over the remaining life of the hedged item. 
 
In the case of a discontinued cash flow hedge of a recognized asset 
or liability, as long as the he
dged item continues to exist
 on 
the balance sheet, the effective portio
n of the changes in fair value of the hedging 
derivative will no longer be recorded to o
ther 
comprehensive income. The balan
ce applicable to the discontinued 
hedging relationship will be rec
ognized in earnings over the 
remaining life of the hedged item as an adjustment to yield
. If the discontinued hedged item was a forecasted transaction that 
is not 
expected to occur, any amounts recorded on the balance sheet re
lated to the hedged item, incl
uding any amounts recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to current period earnings. 
 
In the case of either a fair value hedge or 
a cash flow hedge, if the previously hedg
ed item is sold or extinguished, the basis
 
adjustment to the underlying asset or liab
ility or any remaining unamortized other comprehensive income balance will be reclass
ified 
to current period earnings. 
 
In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, 
the derivative will be carried at fair value on the consolid
ated 
balance sheets, with changes in its fair valu
e recognized in current peri
od earnings unless re-desig
nated as a qualifying hedge
. 
 
Like other financial instruments, derivativ
es contain an element of cred
it risk, which is the possibility that Huntington will 
incur a 
loss because the counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations. Notional values of interest rate swaps and other off-b
alance 
sheet financial instruments significantly exceed
 the credit risk associated with these instruments and represent contractual ba
lances on 
which calculations of amounts to be exchanged are based. Credit ex
posure is limited to the sum of the aggregate fair value of p
ositions 
that have become favorable to Huntington, including any accrued interest receivable due from counterparties. Potential credit l
osses 
are mitigated through careful evaluation of counterparty credit st
anding, selection of counterpar
ties from a limited group of h
igh 
quality institutions, collateral agreements, and 
other contract provisions.  Huntington 
considers the value of collateral held 
and 
collateral provided in determining the 
net carrying value of derivatives. 
 
Huntington offsets the fair value amounts re
cognized for derivative instruments and th
e fair value for the right to reclaim cas
h 
collateral or the obligation to return 
cash collateral arising from derivative instrum
ent(s) recognized at fair value executed 
with the 
same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. 
Repossessed Collateral Š 
Repossessed collateral, also referred to as other r
eal estate owned (OREO), is comprised principally 
of commercial and residential real estate properties obtained in par
tial or total satisfaction of loan obligations, and is carr
ied at the 
lower of cost or fair value. Collateral obtained in satisfaction of
 a loan is record
ed at the estimated fair value less anticip
ated selling 
costs based upon the property™s appraised 
value at the date of foreclosure, with any 
difference between the fair value of the p
roperty 
and the carrying value of the loan recorded as a charge-off. Subseq
uent declines in value are re
ported as adjustments to the ca
rrying 
amount and are recorded in noninterest expense. Gains or losses resulting from the sale of collateral are recognized in noninte
rest 
expense at the date of sale. 
 
Collateral Š 
We pledge assets as collateral as required for various tr
ansactions involving security 
repurchase agreements, public 
deposits, loan notes, derivative financial instruments, short-ter
m borrowings and long-term borrowings. Assets that have been p
ledged 
as collateral, including those that can be sold or repledged by the secured party, continue to be reported on our Consolidated 
Balance 
Sheets. 
 
We also accept collateral, primarily as part of various transactions involving security resale agreements. Collateral accepted 
by us, 
including collateral that we can sell or repledge, is
 excluded from our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 
The market value of collateral we have accepted or pledged is regularly monitored and additional collateral is obtained or 
provided as necessary to ensure appropriate 
collateral coverage in these transactions. 
 
         
Premises and Equipment Š
 
Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. 
Depreciation is computed principally by the 
straight-line method over the estimated us
eful lives of the related assets. Buildin
gs and 
building improvements are depreciated over an average of 30 to 40 years and 10 to 30 years, respectively. Land improvements and
 
furniture and fixtures are depreciated over an average of 5 to 
20 years, while equipment is depreciated over a range of 3 to 10
 years. 
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the asset™s useful life or the lease term, including any renewal period
s for 
which renewal is reasonably assured. Maintenance and repairs are 
charged to expense as incurred, while improvements that extend
 the 
useful life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life. Premises and equipment is evaluated for
 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicat
e that the carrying amount of th
e asset may not be recoverable.
 
 
117 
 
Mortgage Servicing Rights Š
 
Huntington recognizes the rights
 to service mortgage loans as se
parate assets, which are included 
in accrued income and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, only when purchased or when servicing is contractually 
separated from the unde
rlying mortgage loans by sale or securitization 
of the loans with servicing rights retained.   
 
For loan sales with servicing r
etained, a servicing asset is recorded at fair v
alue for the right to se
rvice the loans sold. To
 
determine the fair value of a MSR, Huntington uses an option 
adjusted spread cash flow analy
sis incorporating market implied 
forward interest rates to estimate the future direction of mortga
ge and market interest rates.  The forward rates utilized are 
derived 
from the current yield curve for U.S. dollar interest rate swaps 
and are consistent with pricin
g of capital markets instruments
.  The 
current and projected mortgage interest rate influences the prepayment rate and, therefore, the timing and magnitude of the cas
h flows 
associated with the MSR.  Expected mortgage loan prepayment 
assumptions are derived from a third party model.  Management 
believes these prepayment assumptions are consistent with assumpti
ons used by other market participants valuing similar MSRs. T
he 
servicing rights are recorded in accrued income and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Servicing revenues on mort
gage 
loans are included in mortgage banking income. 
 
At the time of initial capitalization, MSRs may be grouped into 
servicing classes based on the av
ailability of market inputs us
ed in 
determining fair value and the method used
 for managing the risks of the servicing assets.  MSR assets are recorded using the f
air 
value method or the amortization method.  Th
e election of the fair value or amortization method is made at the time each servic
ing 
class is established.   All newly created MSRs since 2009 were re
corded using the amortization method.  Any change in the fair 
value 
of MSRs carried under the fair value method, as well as amorti
zation and impairment of MSRs under the amortization method, duri
ng 
the period is recorded in mortgage banking income, which is refl
ected in the Consolidated Statem
ents of Income. Huntington hedg
es 
the value of certain MSRs using derivative in
struments and trading securities. Changes in
 fair value of these derivatives and t
rading 
account securities are reported as a component of mortgage banking income. 
 
        
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Š 
Under the acquisition method of accounting,
 the net assets of entities acquired by 
Huntington are recorded at their estimated
 fair value at the date of acquisition. Th
e excess cost of the acquisition over the f
air value of 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Other intangible assets are amortized either on an accelerated or straight-line ba
sis over 
their estimated useful lives.  Goodwill is evaluate
d for impairment on an annual basis at October 1
st
 of each year or whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that 
the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Other intangible assets are reviewed for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
 that the carrying amount of th
e asset may not be recoverable. 
  
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
 
Š
 
We recognize the funded status of the postretirement benefit plans on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Net po
stretirement benefit cost charged to current ear
nings related to these plans is based on va
rious 
actuarial assumptions regarding expected future experience.  
 
Certain employees are participants in va
rious defined contribution and other non-qu
alified supplemental retirement plans. Our 
contributions to these plans are charged to current earnings.  
 
In addition, we maintain a 401(k) plan covering substantially all 
employees. Employer contributions to the plan, which are 
charged to current earnings, are 
based on employee contributions. 
 
         
Share-Based Compensation
 
Š
 
We use the fair value based method of accounting for awards of HBAN stock granted to 
employees under various stock op
tion and restricted share plans.
 Stock compensation costs are 
recognized prospectively for all 
new 
awards granted under these plans. Compensation expense relating to
 share options is calculated us
ing a methodology that is base
d on 
the underlying assumptions of the Black-Schol
es option pricing model and is charged to expense over the requisite service perio
d (e.g. 
vesting period).   Compensation expense relati
ng to restricted stock awards is based upon the fair value of the awards on the d
ate of 
grant and is charged to earnings over the requisite 
service period (e.g., vesting period) of the award.
 
 
Stock Repurchases Š 
Acquisitions of Huntington stock are recorded at cost. The re-issuance of shares is recorded at weighted-
average cost. 
 
         
Income Taxes Š 
Income taxes are accounted 
for under the asset and liab
ility method. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and 
liabilities are recognized for the fu
ture book and tax consequences attributable 
to temporary differences between the financial
 
statement carrying amounts of existing a
ssets and liabilities and their 
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabiliti
es are 
determined using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recove
red or 
settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change
 in tax rates is recognized 
in income at the time of enac
tment of 
such change in tax rates. Any interest or penalties due for paym
ent of income taxes are included in the provision for income ta
xes. To 
the extent that we do not 
consider it more likely than not that a deferred 
tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance i
s recorded. 
All positive and negative ev
idence is reviewed when determin
ing how much of a valuation allowance is recognized on a quarterly 
basis. In determining the requirements fo
r a valuation allowance, sources of possibl
e taxable income are evaluated including fu
ture 
reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future ta
xable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and 
carryforwards, taxable income in appropriat
e carryback years, and tax-planning strate
gies. Huntington applies a more likely tha
n not 
recognition threshold for all tax uncertainties. Huntin
gton reviews the tax positions quarterly.  
118 
 
Bank Owned Life Insurance Š 
Huntington™s bank owned life insurance policies 
are carried at their cash surrender value. 
Huntington recognizes tax-exempt income from the periodic in
creases in the cash surrender value of these policies and from deat
h 
benefits.  A portion of the cash surrender va
lue is supported by holdings in separate 
accounts.  Book valu
e protection for the 
separate 
accounts is provided by the insurance carriers and a highly rated major bank. 
Fair Value Measurements Š 
The Company records or discloses 
certain of its assets and liabilities at fair value.  Fair value is 
defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the princi
pal or most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability 
in an orderly transaction between market 
participants on the measurement date.  
Fair 
value measurements are classified within on
e of three levels in a valuation hierarchy ba
sed upon the transparency of inputs to 
the 
valuation of an asset or liability as of the measuremen
t date.  The three levels are defined as follows: 
 
Level 1
 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
 
Level 2
 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices
 for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs 
that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly or indirectly, for su
bstantially the full term of the financial
 instrument. 
 
Level 3
 Œ inputs to the valuation methodol
ogy are unobservable and significan
t to the fair value measurement. 
 
A financial instrument™s categorization within th
e valuation hierarchy is based upon the 
lowest level of input that is signific
ant to 
the fair value measurement. 
Segment Results  Š  
Accounting policies for the business segments are the 
same as those used in the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to activities specifically attributable to each business segment. However, the 
preparation of business segment results re
quires Management to establish methodologies
 to allocate funding costs and benefits, 
expenses, and other financial elements to each business segmen
t. Changes are made in these methodologies as appropriate.  
 
Statement of Cash Flows Š 
Cash and cash equivalents are defined as ca
sh and due from banks which includes amounts on 
deposit with the Federal Reserve and federal funds so
ld and securities purchased under resale agreements. 
Transactions with Related Parties Š 
In the normal course of business, we may enter into transactions with various related 
parties. These transactions occur at prevailing market rates and ter
ms and include funding arrang
ements, transfer
s of financial
 assets, 
administrative and operational support
, and other miscellaneous services. 
 
2.  ACCOUNTING 
STANDARDS UPDATE  
 
ASU 2011-04 Š Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and 
Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.  
The ASU amends Topic 820 to add both
 additional clarifications to existing 
fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and changes to existing principles and disclosure guidance.  Clarifications 
were 
made to the relevancy of the highest and best use valuation concep
t, measurement of an instrument classified in an entity™s 
shareholders™ equity and disclosure of quantitative information ab
out the unobservable inputs for 
level 3 fair value measuremen
ts.  
Changes to existing principles and disclosures included measureme
nt of financial instruments ma
naged within a portfolio, the 
application of premiums and discounts in fair value measurement,
 and additional disclosures related to fair value measurements.
 The 
updated guidance was effective for our quarterly and annual financial statements for 2012 (See Note 19).  The amendments did no
t 
have a material impact on Huntington™s
 Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ASU 2011-05 Š Other Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Presentation of Comprehensive Income.  
The ASU amends Topic 
220 to require an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of othe
r 
comprehensive income either in a single continuous statemen
t of comprehensive income or 
in two separate but consecutive 
statements.  An entity is also required to present on the f
ace of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for ite
ms that are 
reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the 
components of other comprehensive income are presented.  The ame
ndments do not change items that must be reported in other 
comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive inco
me must be reclassified to net income, only the format for 
presentation.  Other than the deferral of 
the requirements related to reclassifications, the updated guidance was effective for
 our 
quarterly and annual financial statements for 2012.   
 
119 
 
ASU 2011-10 Š Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360): Derecognition of In-Substance Real Estate.   
The ASU amends 
Topic 360 to clarify that when a reporting entity ceases to have a controlling financial interest (as described in ASC 810 
ﬁConsolidationﬂ) in a subsidiary that is in-substance real estate as
 a result of default on the su
bsidiary™s nonrecourse debt, 
the 
reporting entity should apply th
e guidance in Subtopic 3
60-20 to determine whether it should derecognize the in-substance real 
estate. 
The amendments were effective for our financial statements beginning 
in the third quarter 
of 2012.  The amen
dments did not have
 a 
material impact on Huntington™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ASU 2011-11 Š Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclo
sures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.   
The ASU amends Topic 210 by 
requiring additional improved information to
 be disclosed regarding financial instrume
nts and derivative instruments that are o
ffset in 
accordance with the conditions under ASC 210-20-45 or ASC 810-10-45 or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or 
similar agreement.  The amendmen
ts are effective for annual and in
terim reporting periods beginnin
g on or after January 1, 2013
. The 
disclosures required by the amendments should be applied re
trospectively for all comparative periods presented.  Management doe
s 
not believe the amendments will have a material imp
act on Huntington™s Conso
lidated Financial Statements 
 
ASU 2013-01Š Balance Sheet (Topic 
210): Clarifying the Scope 
of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
.   The 
ASU amends Update 2011-11 to clarify that the scope applies to deriva
tives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and 
securities borrowing and lending transactions that are either 
offset in accordance with Secti
on 210-20-45 or S
ection 815-10-45 
or 
subject to master netting or similar arrangements.  Other types 
of financial assets and liabilities subject to master netting o
r similar 
arrangements are not subject to the disc
losure requirements in Update 2011-11.   The amendments are effective for fiscal years 
beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods with
in those annual periods.   Ma
nagement does not believe the 
amendments will have a material impact on 
Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
ASU 2013-02Š Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting
 of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive Income.
   The ASU requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other 
comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net
 
income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the resp
ective 
line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is requi
red under U.S. GAAP to be recl
assified to net income in it
s entirety 
in the same reporting period.  The amendments are effective pr
ospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 20
12.   
Management does not believe the amendments will have a material 
impact on Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
 
3.  LOANS AND LEASES AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
Loans and leases for which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future, or until maturity or payof
f, are 
classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as loans and leases.  Except for loans which are accounted for at fair value, loa
ns and 
leases are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of una
mortized deferred loan origination fees and costs and net of 
unearned 
income.  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
the aggregate amount of these net unamortized deferred loan origination fees and net 
unearned income was $174.5 million 
and $122.5 million, respectively.   
 
120 
 
Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition 
 
The table below summarizes the Company™s primary portfolios.  Fo
r ACL purposes, these portfolio
s are further disaggregated 
into classes which are also summarized in the table below. 
 
Portfolio
 
Class 
Commercial and industrial 
Owner occupied 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
Other commercial and industrial 
Commercial real estate 
Retail properties 
 
Multi family 
 
Office 
 
Industrial and warehouse 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
Other commercial real estate 
Automobile 
NA (1) 
Home equity 
Secured by first-lien 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
Residential mortgage 
Residential mortgage 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
Other consumer 
Other consumer 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
(1)  Not applicable.  The autom
obile loan portfolio is not furt
her segregated into classes. 
 
Direct Financing Leases 
 
Huntington™s loan and lease portfolio includes lease financing receivables consisting of direct financing leases on equipment, 
which are included in C&I loans, and on automobiles. Net investments in lease financing receivables by category at December 31,
 
2012 and 2011 were as follows: 




At

December

31,

(dollar

amounts

in

thousands)



2012




2011

Commercial

and

industrial:



Lease

payments

receivable

$

1,477,296
$
1,001,939

Estimated

residual

value

of

leased

assets




332,369




201,663

Gross

investment

in

commercial

lease

financing

receivables




1,809,665




1,203,602

Net

deferred

origination

costs




2,805
3,034
Unearned

income




(142,904)



(109,820)
Total

net

investment

in

commercial

lease

financing

receivables


$


1,669,566


$

1,096,816

Consumer

Automobile:





Lease

payments

receivable


$


(299)
$
2,562

Estimated

residual

value

of

leased

assets




921
10,843
Gross

investment

in

consumer

lease

financing

receivables



622
13,405
Net

deferred

origination

fees



(2)
(18)
Unearned

income



(5)
(497)
Total

net

investment

in

consumer

lease

financing

receivables


$


615


$

12,890

 
The future lease rental payments due from customers on direct 
financing leases at December 31, 2012, totaled $1.5 billion and 
were as follows: $0.5 billion in 2013, $0.3 billion in 2014, $0.2 billion in 2015, $0.2 billion in 2016, $0.1 billion in 2017, 
and $0.2 
thereafter. 
 
121 
 
Fidelity Bank acquisition 
(See Note 26 for additional information regarding the Fidelity Bank acquisition). 
On March 30, 2012, Huntington acquired the loans of Fidelity
 Bank located in Dearborn, Michigan from the FDIC. Under the 
agreement, loans with a fair v
alue of $523.9 million were transferred to Huntington.  These loans were recorded at fair value i
n 
accordance with applicable accounting guidance, ASC 805.  The fair values for the loans were estimated using discounted cash fl
ow 
analyses using interest rates currently being offered for loans 
with similar terms (Level 3), and reflected an estimate of prob
able losses 
and the credit risk associated with the loans. 
 
Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 
 
The fair values for purchased credit-impair
ed loans were estimated using discounted cas
h flow analyses, including interest rate
s 
currently being offered for loans 
with similar terms (Level 3) and prepayment assumptions.  This value was reduced by an estima
te of 
probable losses and the credit risk
 associated with the loans. 
 
The following table presents a rollforward of the accretable yield for the year ended December 31, 2012:  
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
Balance at January 1,
$
 ---
Impact of acquisition on March 30,
 
 27,586 
Adjustments resulting from cha
nges in purchase price allocation
 
 3,625 
Accretion
 
 (7,960)
Balance at December 31,  
$
 23,251 
 
At December 31, 2012, there was no allowance for loan losses recorded on the purchased impaired loan portfolio and no 
adjustment to either the accretable or nonaccretable yield was required.  The following table reflects the ending and unpaid ba
lances of 
all contractually required payments and carrying amount
s of the acquired loans at December 31, 2012:   
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
(in thousands)
Ending
Balance
Unpaid 
Balance
Commercial and industrial
$
 54,472 
 
$
 80,294 
Commercial real estate 
 
 126,923 
 
 
 226,093 
Residential mortgage 
 
 2,243 
 
 
 4,104 
Other consumer 
 
 140 
 
 
 245 
Total 
$
 183,778 
$
 310,736 
 
122 
 
Loan Purchases and Sales 
The following table summarizes significant portfolio loan purchase and sale activity for the years ended December 31, 2012, and
 
2011. 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
Commercial 
 
Home 
Residential 
Other 
 
 
and Industrial
Real Estate 
Automobile 
Equity 
Mortgage 
Consumer
Total 
 
(dollar amounts in 
thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Portfolio loans purchased 
during the: 
 
Year ended December 
31, 2012 
$
 
 568,467 
$
 378,122 
$
 ---
$
 13,025 
$
 62,324 
$
 85 
$
 1,022,023 
 
Year ended December 
31, 2011 
 ---
 ---
 59,578
 ---
 ---
 ---
 59,578 
Portfolio loans sold or 
transferred to loans held for 
sale during the: 
 
Year ended December 
31, 2012 
 238,121 
 74,703 
 2,783,748
 ---
 389,603 
 ---
 3,486,175 
 
Year ended December 
31, 2011 
 256,313 
 56,123 
 2,250,033
 ---
 257,100 
 ---
 2,819,569 

NALs and Past Due Loans 
 
The following table presents NALs by loan class for th
e years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (1): 



 
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012  
2011 
Commercial and industrial: 
 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 53,009
$
 88,415 
 
Other commercial and industrial 
 
 37,696
 113,431 
Total commercial and industrial 
$
 90,705
$
 201,846 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
Retail properties 
$
 31,791
$
 58,415 
 
Multi family 
 
 19,765
 39,921 
 
Office 
 
 30,341
 33,202 
 
Industrial and warehouse 
 
 6,841
 30,119 
 
Other commercial real estate 
 
 38,390
 68,232 
Total commercial real estate 
$
 127,128
$
 229,889 
Automobile 
$
 7,823
$
 ---
Home equity:
 
 
 
Secured by first-lien 
$
 27,091
$
 20,012 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 32,434
 20,675 
Total home equity 
$
 59,525
$
 40,687 
Residential mortgage 
$
 122,452
$
 68,658 
Other consumer 
$
 ---
$
 ---
Total nonaccrual loans 
$
 407,633
$
 541,080 
(1)
 December 31, 2012, amounts included $60.1 million related to Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans. 

The amount of interest that would have been recorded under 
the original terms for total NAL loans was $40.4 million for 2012, 
$38.4 million for 2011, and $59.7 million for 2010. The total amount of interest recorded to interest income for these loans wa
s $4.8 
million, $5.1 million, and $5.5 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
123 
 
 
The following table presents an 
aging analysis of loans and leases for the years 
ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (1):   

December 31, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
90 or more 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Past Due
 
 
Total Loans 
 
days past due
 
 
30-59 days
60-89 days 
90 or more days
Total 
 
Current 
and Leases 
 
and accruing
 
Commercial and industrial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 11,409 
$
 6,302 
$
 31,997
$
 49,708 
$
 4,236,211 
$
 4,285,919 
$
 ---
 
 
Purchased credit-
impaired 
 986 
 3,533 
 26,648
 31,167 
 23,305 
 54,472 
 26,648 
(2) 
Other commercial and 
industrial 
 
 20,273 
 4,211 
 14,786
 39,270 
 12,591,028 
 12,630,298 
 ---
Total commercial and 
industrial 
$
 32,668 
$
 14,046 
$
 73,431
$
 120,145 
$
 16,850,544 
$
 16,970,689 
$
 26,648 
Commercial real estate:
 
Retail properties 
$
 3,459 
$
 4,203 
$
 9,677
$
 17,339 
$
 1,413,520 
$
 1,430,859 
$
 ---
 
Multi family 
 
 7,961 
 1,314 
 12,062
 21,337 
 963,063 
 984,400 
 ---
 
Office 
 
 1,054 
 2,415 
 23,335
 26,804 
 909,310 
 936,114 
 ---
 
Industrial and 
warehouse 
 
 6,597 
 118 
 5,433
 12,148 
 584,754 
 596,902 
 ---
 
Purchased credit-
impaired 
 
 556 
 1,751 
 56,660
 58,967 
 67,956 
 126,923 
 56,660 
(2) 
Other commercial real 
estate 
 
 2,725 
 2,192 
 25,463
 30,380 
 1,293,662 
 1,324,042 
 ---
Total commercial real estate 
$
 22,352 
$
 11,993 
$
 132,630
$
 166,975 
$
 5,232,265 
$
 5,399,240 
$
 56,660 
Automobile
$
 36,267 
$
 7,803 
$
 4,438
$
 48,508 
$
 4,585,312 
$
 4,633,820 
$
 4,418 
Home equity:
 
Secured by first-lien 
$
 26,288 
$
 9,992 
$
 28,322
$
 64,602 
$
 4,315,985 
$
 4,380,587 
$
 5,202 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 34,365 
 16,553 
 35,150
 86,068 
 3,868,687 
 3,954,755 
 12,998 
Total home equity
$
 60,653 
$
 26,545 
$
 63,472
$
 150,670 
$
 8,184,672 
$
 8,335,342 
$
 18,200 
Residential mortgage
 
Residential mortgage 
$
 118,582 
$
 44,747 
$
 164,035
$
 327,364 
$
 4,640,065 
$
 4,967,429 
$
 92,925 
(3) 
Purchased credit-
impaired 
 
 58 
 ---
 609
 667 
 1,576 
 2,243 
 609 
(2) 
Total residential mortgage
$
 118,640 
$
 44,747 
$
 164,644
$
 328,031 
$
 4,641,641 
$
 4,969,672 
$
 93,534 
Other consumer
 
Other consumer 
$
 7,431 
$
 2,117 
$
 1,672
$
 11,220 
$
 408,302 
$
 419,522 
$
 1,672 
Purchased credit-
impaired 
 
 ---
 76 
 ---
 76 
 64 
 140 
 ---
(2) 
Total other consumer
$
 7,431 
$
 2,193 
$
 1,672
$
 11,296 
$
 408,366 
$
 419,662 
$
 1,672 
Total loans and leases
$
 278,011 
$
 107,327 
$
 440,287
$
 825,625 
$
 39,902,800 
$
 40,728,425 
$
 201,132 
  
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
90 or more 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Past Due
 
 
Total Loans 
 
days past due
 
 
30-59 days
60-89 days 
90 or more days
Total 
 
Current 
and Leases 
 
and accruing
 
Commercial and industrial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 10,607 
$
 7,433 
$
 58,513
$
 76,553 
 
$
 3,936,203 
$ 
 4,012,756 
 
$
 ---
 
 
Other commercial and 
industrial 
 
 32,962 
 
 7,579 
 
 60,833
 
 101,374 
 
 10,585,241 
 
 10,686,615 
 
 
 ---
 
Total commercial and 
industrial 
$
 43,569 
$
 15,012 
$
 119,346
$
 177,927 
 
$
 14,521,444 
$ 
 14,699,371 
 
$
 ---
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail properties 
$
 3,090 
$
 823 
$
 33,952
$
 37,865 
 
$
 1,547,618 
$ 
 1,585,483 
 
$
 ---
 
 
Multi family 
 
 5,022 
 
 1,768 
 
 28,317
 
 35,107 
 
 908,438 
 
 943,545 
 
 
 ---
 
 
Office 
 
 3,134 
 
 792 
 
 30,041
 
 33,967 
 
 990,897 
 
 1,024,864 
 
 
 ---
 
 
Industrial and 
warehouse 
 
 2,834 
 
 115 
 
 18,203
 
 21,152 
 
 708,390 
 
 729,542 
 
 
 ---
 
 
Other commercial real 
estate 
 
 6,894 
 
 3,625 
 
 48,739
 
 59,258 
 
 1,483,017 
 
 1,542,275 
 
 
 ---
 
Total commercial real estate 
$
 20,974 
$
 7,123 
$
 159,252
$
 187,349 
$
 5,638,360 
$ 
 5,825,709 
 
$
 ---
 
Automobile 
$
 42,162 
$
 9,046 
$
 6,265
$
 57,473 
 
$
 4,399,973 
$ 
 4,457,446 
 
$
 6,265 
 
Home equity: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secured by first-lien 
$
 17,260 
$
 8,822 
$
 29,259
$
 55,341 
 
$
 3,760,238 
$
 3,815,579 
 
$
 9,247 
 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 32,334 
 
 18,357 
 
 31,626
 
 82,317 
 
 4,317,517 
 
 4,399,834 
 
 
 10,951 
 
Residential mortgage 
$
 134,228 
$
 45,774 
$
 204,648
$
 384,650 
 
$
 4,843,626 
$
 5,228,276 
 
$
 141,901 
(4) 
Other consumer 
$
 7,655 
$
 1,502 
$
 1,988
$
 11,145 
 
$
 486,423 
$
 497,568 
 
$
 1,988 
 
Total loans and leases 
$
 298,182 
$
 105,636 
$
 552,384
$
 956,202 
 
$
 37,967,581 
$
 38,923,783 
 
$
 170,352 
 
(1) 
N
ALs are included in this aging analysis based on the loan's past due status. 
 
(2) 
All amounts represent accruing purchased credit-impaired loans related to the FDIC-assisted Fidelity Bank acquisition.  Under t
he 
applicable accounting guidance (ASC-310
-30), the loans were recorded at fair valu
e upon acquisition and remain in accruing stat
us. 
 
(3) 
Includes $90,816 thousand guarant
eed by the U.S. government. 
 
(4) 
Includes $96,703 thousand guarant
eed by the U.S. government. 
 

Allowance for Credit Losses 
 
The ACL is increased through 
a provision for credit lo
sses that is charged to earnings, 
based on Manage
ment™s quarterly 
evaluation, and is reduced by NCOs and the ACL associated with securitized or sold loans.  There were no material changes in 
assumptions or estimation techniques compared with prior periods th
at impacted the determination of the current period™s ALLL a
nd 
AULC.  The impact of the Chapter 7 bankr
uptcy loans was primarily associated with NAL
s and NCOs, with minimal impact to the 
ALLL. 

  
125 
 
The following table presents ALLL and AULC activity by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 
2010: 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
Commercial 
 
Home 
Residential 
Other 
 
 
 
and Industrial
Real Estate 
Automobile 
Equity 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Total 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2012: 
ALLL balance, beginning of 
period 
$
 275,367 
$
 388,706 
$
 38,282
$
 143,873 
$
 87,194 
$
 31,406 
$
 964,828 
 
Loan charge-offs 
 (101,475)
 (118,051)
 (26,070)
 (124,286)
 (52,228)
 (33,090)
 (455,200)
 
Recoveries of loans 
previously charged-off 
 37,227 
 39,622 
 16,628
 7,907 
 4,305 
 7,049 
 112,738 
 
Provision for loan and lease 
losses 
 29,932 
 (24,908)
 12,964
 91,270 
 24,046 
 21,889 
 155,193 
 
Allowance for lo
ans sold or 
transferred to loans held for 
sale 
 ---
 ---
 (6,825)
 ---
 (1,659)
 ---
 (8,484)
ALLL balance, end of period 
$
 241,051 
$
 285,369 
$
 34,979
$
 118,764 
$
 61,658 
$
 27,254 
$
 769,075 
AULC balance, beginning of 
period 
$
 39,658 
$
 5,852 
$
 ---
$
 2,134 
$
 1 
$
 811 
$
 48,456 
 
Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters of 
credit 
 (5,790)
 (1,112)
 ---
 (778)
 2 
 (127)
 (7,805)
AULC balance, end of period 
$
 33,868 
$
 4,740 
$
 ---
$
 1,356 
$
 3 
$
 684 
$
 40,651 
ACL balance, end of period 
$
 274,919 
$
 290,109 
$
 34,979
$
 120,120 
$
 61,661 
$
 27,938 
$
 809,726 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 2011: 
ALLL balance, beginning of 
period 
$
 340,614 
$
 588,251 
$
 49,488
$
 150,630 
$
 93,289 
$
 26,736 
$
 1,249,008 
 
 
Loan charge-offs 
 (134,385)
 (182,759)
 (33,593)
 (109,427)
 (65,069)
 (32,520)
 (557,753)
 
 
Recoveries of loans 
previously charged-off 
 44,686 
 34,658 
 18,526
 7,630 
 8,388 
 6,776 
 120,664 
 
 
Provision for loan and lease 
losses 
 24,452 
 (51,444)
 17,042
 95,040 
 52,226 
 30,414 
 167,730 
 
 
Allowance for lo
ans sold or 
transferred to loans held for 
sale 
 ---
 ---
 (13,181)
 ---
 (1,640)
 ---
 (14,821)
 
ALLL balance, end of period 
$
 275,367 
$
 388,706 
$
 38,282
$
 143,873 
$
 87,194 
$
 31,406 
$
 964,828 
 
AULC balance, beginning of 
period 
$
 32,726 
$
 6,158 
$
 ---
$
 2,348 
$
 1 
$
 894 
$
 42,127 
 
 
Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters of 
credit 
 6,932 
 (306)
 ---
 (214)
 ---
 (83)
 6,329 
 
AULC balance, end of period 
$
 39,658 
$
 5,852 
$
 ---
$
 2,134 
$
 1 
$
 811 
$
 48,456 
 
ACL balance, end of period 
$
 315,025 
$
 394,558 
$
 38,282
$
 146,007 
$
 87,195 
$
 32,217 
$
 1,013,284 
 
126 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALLL balance, beginning of 
period 
$
 492,205 
$ 
 751,875 
$
 57,951 
$
 102,039
 
$
 55,903 
 
$
 22,506 
$
 1,482,479 
 
 
Loan charge-offs 
 (316,771)
 (303,995)
 (46,308)
 (140,831)
(1) 
 (163,427)
(2) 
 (32,575)
 (1,003,907)
 
 
Recoveries of loans 
previously charged-off 
 
 61,839 
 
 28,433 
 
 19,736 
 
 1,458
 
 
 10,532 
 
 
 7,435 
 
 129,433 
 
 
Provision for loan and lease 
losses 
 
 103,341 
 
 111,938 
 
 18,109 
 
 187,964
 
 
 190,577 
 
 
 29,370 
 
 641,299 
 
 
Allowance for lo
ans sold or 
transferred to loans held for 
sale 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 (296)
 
 
 ---
 
 (296)
 
ALLL balance, end of period 
$
 340,614 
$ 
 588,251 
$
 49,488 
$
 150,630
 
$
 93,289 
 
$
 26,736 
$
 1,249,008 
 
AULC balance, beginning of 
period 
$
 34,555 
$ 
 12,194 
$
 ---
 
$
 
 1,179
 
$
 2 
 
$
 949 
$
 48,879 
 
 
Provision for unfunded loan 
commitments and letters-of-
credit 
 
 (1,829)
 
 (6,036)
 
 ---
 
 
 1,169
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 (55)
 
 (6,752)
 
AULC balance, end of period 
 
 32,726 
 
 6,158 
 
 ---
 
 
 2,348
 
 
 1 
 
 
 894 
 
 42,127 
 
ACL balance, end of period 
$
 373,340 
$ 
 594,409 
$
 49,488 
$
 152,978
 
$
 93,290 
 
$
 27,630 
$
 1,291,135 
(1) 
Reflects $21 million of Franklin-related charge-offs. 
(2) 
Reflects $71 million of Franklin-related charge-offs.  

127 
 
Credit Quality Indicators 
 
To facilitate the monitoring of cr
edit quality for C&I and CRE loans, and for pur
poses of determining an appropriate ACL level 
for these loans, Huntington
 utilizes the following categor
ies of credit grades:   
 
Pass = Higher quality loans that 
do not fit any of the other categories described below. 
 
OLEM = The credit risk may be relatively minor yet represent 
a risk given certain specific circumstances.  If the potential 
weaknesses are not monitored or mitigated
, the loan may weaken or the collateral may 
be inadequate to protect Huntington™s 
position in the future.  For these reasons, Huntington
 considers the loans to be potential problem loans. 
 
Substandard = Inadequately prot
ected loans by the borrower™s ab
ility to repay, equity, and/or the collateral pledged to secure 
the loan.  These loans have id
entified weaknesses that could hinder normal repa
yment or collection of the debt.  It is likely 
Huntington will sustain so
me loss if any identified weaknesses are not mitigated. 
 
Doubtful = Loans that have all of the weaknesses inherent in th
ose loans classified as Substand
ard, with the added elements 
of the full collection of the loan
 is improbable and that the 
possibility of loss is high. 
 
The categories above, which are derived 
from standard regulatory rating definitions
, are assigned upon 
initial approval of the 
loan 
or lease and subsequently 
updated as appropriate. 
 
Commercial loans categorized as OLEM, Subs
tandard, or Doubtful are considered
 Criticized loans.  Commercial loans 
categorized as Substandard or Doubtful are 
also considered Cl
assified loans. 
 
For all classes within all consumer loan po
rtfolios, each loan is assigned a specific PD factor that is partially based on the 
borrower™s most recent credit bureau score (FICO), which we update quarterly.  A FICO credit bureau score is a credit score 
developed by Fair Isaac Corporation based on data provided by the credit bureaus.  The FICO credit bureau score is widely accep
ted 
as the standard measure of consumer credit risk used by lenders, regulators, rating agencies, and consumers.  The higher the FI
CO 
credit bureau score, the higher likelihood of repayment 
and therefore, an indicator of higher credit quality. 
 
Huntington assesses the risk 
in the loan portfolio by u
tilizing numerous risk characteristics.  The classifications described a
bove, 
and also presented in the table below, represent one of thos
e characteristics that are closely 
monitored in the overall credit 
risk 
management processes. 
 
  
The following table presents each loan and lease class by credit quality indicator for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011: 


December 31, 2012 
Credit Risk Profile by UCS classification
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pass
OLEM 
Substandard
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied
 
$
 3,970,597 
$
 108,731 
$
 205,822 
$
 769 
$
 4,285,919 
Purchased impaired
 
 1,663 
 6,555 
 46,254 
 ---
 54,472 
Other commercial and industrial
 
 
 12,146,017 
 145,111 
 337,805 
 1,365 
 12,630,298 
Total commercial and industrial
$
 16,118,277 
$
 260,397 
$
 589,881 
$
 2,134 
$
 16,970,689 
 
 
Commercial real estate:
 
Retail properties
 
$
 1,184,987 
$
 63,976 
$
 181,896 
$
 ---
$
 1,430,859 
Multi family
 
 
 902,616 
 24,098 
 57,548 
 138 
 984,400 
Office
 
 
 826,533 
 26,488 
 83,093 
 ---
 936,114 
Industrial and warehouse
 
 
 540,484 
 15,132 
 41,286 
 ---
 596,902 
Purchased impaired
 
 
 10,052 
 18,085 
 98,786 
 ---
 126,923 
Other commercial real estate
 
 
 1,177,213 
 43,454 
 103,262 
 113 
 1,324,042 
Total commercial real estate
$
 4,641,885 
$
 191,233 
$
 565,871 
$
 251 
$
 5,399,240 
 
 
 
 
 
  
128 
 
 
 
Credit Risk Profile by FICO score (1)
 
 
 
750+
 
650-749 
<650 
Other (2) 
Total 
Automobile
 
$
 2,233,439 
$
 1,900,824 
$
 682,518 
$
 117,039 
$
 4,933,820 
(3)
Home equity:
 
Secured by first-lien
 
$
 2,618,888 
$
 1,345,621 
$
 357,019 
$
 59,059 
$
 4,380,587 
Secured by junior-lien
 
 
 2,046,143 
 1,375,636 
 491,226 
 41,750 
 3,954,755 
Total home equity
$
 4,665,031 
$
 2,721,257 
$
 848,245 
$
 100,809 
$
 8,335,342 
Residential mortgage:
 
Residential mortgage
 
$
 2,561,210 
$
 1,673,485 
$
 711,750 
$
 20,984 
$
 4,967,429 
Purchased impaired
 
 
 373 
 1,303 
 567 
 ---
 2,243 
Total residential mortgage
$
 2,561,583 
$
 1,674,788 
$
 712,317 
$
 20,984 
$
 4,969,672 
 
 
Other consumer
 
Other consumer
 
$
 169,792 
$
 167,389 
$
 59,815 
$
 22,526 
$
 419,522 
Purchased impaired
 
 
 ---
 93 
 47 
 ---
 140 
Total other consumer loans
$
 169,792 
$
 167,482 
$
 59,862 
$
 22,526 
$
 419,662 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
Credit Risk Profile by UCS classification
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pass
OLEM 
Substandard
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied
 
$
 3,624,103 
$
 101,897 
$
 285,561 
$
 1,195 
$
 4,012,756 
 
Other commercial and industrial
 
 
 10,108,946 
 
 145,963 
 
 425,882 
 
 5,824 
 
 10,686,615 
Total commercial and industrial
 
$
 13,733,049 
$
 247,860 
$
 711,443 
$
 7,019 
$
 14,699,371 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail properties
 
$
 1,191,471 
$
 122,337 
$
 271,675 
$
 ---
$
 1,585,483 
 
Multi family
 
 
 801,717 
 
 48,094 
 
 93,449 
 
 285 
 
 943,545 
 
Office
 
 
 896,230 
 
 67,050 
 
 61,476 
 
 108 
 
 1,024,864 
 
Industrial and warehouse
 
 
 649,165 
 
 9,688 
 
 70,621 
 
 68 
 
 729,542 
 
Other commercial real estate
 
 
 1,112,751 
 
 110,276 
 
 318,479 
 
 769 
 
 1,542,275 
Total commercial real estate
 
$
 4,651,334 
$
 357,445 
$
 815,700 
$
 1,230 
$
 5,825,709 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Risk Profile by FICO score (1)
 
 
 
750+
 
650-749 
<650 
Other (2) 
Total 
Automobile
 
$
 2,635,082 
$
 2,276,990 
$
 707,141 
$
 88,233 
$
 5,707,446 
(4)
Home equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secured by first-lien
 
 
 2,196,566 
 
 1,287,444 
 
 329,670 
 
 1,899 
 
 3,815,579 
 
Secured by junior-lien
 
 
 2,119,292 
 
 1,646,117 
 
 625,298 
 
 9,127 
 
 4,399,834 
Residential mortgage
 
 
 2,454,401 
 
 1,752,409 
 
 723,377 
 
 298,089 
 
 5,228,276 
Other consumer
 
 
 185,333 
 
 206,749 
 
 83,431 
 
 22,055 
 
 497,568 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
Reflects currently updated customer credit scores. 
(2)
 
Reflects deferred fees and costs, loans 
in process, loans to legal entities, etc. 
(3)
 
Includes $0.3 billion of loan
s reflected as loans held 
for sale related to an auto
mobile securitization expected 
to be completed in 2013. 
(4)
 
Includes $1.25 billion of loans ref
lected as loans held for sale related 
to an automobile securitization 
completed in 2012. 

129 
 
Impaired Loans 
A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that not all amounts due 
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will be collected.  The following tables present the balance of the AL
LL 
attributable to loans by portfolio segment individually and co
llectively evaluated for impairment
 and the related loan and leas
e balance 
for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 (1): 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
Commercial 
 
 
Residential 
Other 
 
 
and Industrial
Real Estate 
Automobile 
Home Equity
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Total 
ALLL at December 31, 2012:
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Portion of ending balance: 
 
Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 11,694 
 31,133 
 1,446
 4,783 
 14,176 
 213 
 63,445 
 
Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 229,357 
 254,236 
 33,533
 113,981 
 47,482 
 27,041 
 705,630 
Total ALLL balance 
$
 241,051 
$
 285,369 
$
 34,979
$
 118,764 
$
 61,658 
$
 27,254 
$
 769,075 
Loans and Leases at December 
31, 2012:
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Portion of ending balance: 
 
Attributable to purchased 
credit-impaired loans 
$
 54,472 
$
 126,923 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 2,243 
$
 140 
$
 183,778 
 
Individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 119,535 
 298,891 
 43,607
 117,532 
 374,526 
 2,657 
 956,748 
 
Collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 16,796,682 
 4,973,426 
 4,590,213
 8,217,810 
 4,592,903 
 416,865 
 39,587,899 
Total loans evaluated for 
impairment 
$
 16,970,689 
$
 5,399,240 
$
 4,633,820
$
 8,335,342 
$
 4,969,672 
$
 419,662 
$
 40,728,425 
Portion of ending balance: 
 
With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances 
$
 
 86,644 
$
 193,413 
$
 43,607
$
 117,532 
$
 374,526 
$
 2,657 
$
 818,379 
 
With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances 
 
 87,363 
 232,401 
 ---
 ---
 2,243 
 140 
 322,147 
Total 
$
 
 174,007 
$
 425,814 
$
 43,607
$
 117,532 
$
 376,769 
$
 2,797 
$
 1,140,526 
Average balance of impaired 
loans 
$
 
 179,692 
$
 474,362 
$
 39,139
$
 79,523 
$
 348,727 
$
 4,448 
$
 1,125,891 
ALLL on impaired loans 
 
 11,694 
 31,133 
 1,446
 4,783 
 14,176 
 213 
 63,445 
 
  
130 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
Commercial 
 
 
Residential 
Other 
 
 
and Industrial
Real Estate 
Automobile 
Home Equity
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Total 
ALLL at December 31, 2011:
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Portion of ending balance: 
 
Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 30,613 
 55,306 
 1,393
 1,619 
 16,091 
 530 
 105,552 
 
 
Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 244,754 
 333,400 
 36,889
 142,254 
 71,103 
 30,876 
 859,276 
 
Total ALLL balance at 
December 31, 2011 
$
 275,367 
$
 388,706 
$
 38,282
$
 143,873 
$
 87,194 
$
 31,406 
$
 964,828 
Loans and Leases at December 
31, 2011: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Portion of ending balance: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 153,724 
 387,402 
 36,574
 52,593 
 335,768 
 6,220 
 972,281 
 
 
Collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 14,545,647 
 5,438,307 
 4,420,872
 8,162,820 
 4,892,508 
 491,348 
 37,951,502 
 
Total loans evaluated for 
impairment 
$
 14,699,371 
$
 5,825,709 
$
 4,457,446
$
 8,215,413 
$
 5,228,276 
$
 497,568 
$
 38,923,783 
Portion of ending balance:


With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances 
$ 
 153,724 
$ 
 305,390 
$
 36,574
$
 52,593 
$
 335,768 
$ 
 6,220 
$
 890,269 
 

With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances 
 
 ---
 
 82,012 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 82,012 
 
Total

$ 
 153,724 
$ 
 387,402 
$
 36,574
$
 52,593 
$
 335,768 
$ 
 6,220 
$
 972,281 
 
Average balance of impaired 
loans

$ 
 165,179 
$ 
 358,429 
$
 32,476
$
 42,903 
$
 335,549 
$ 
 7,699 
$
 942,235 
 
ALLL on impaired loans

 
 30,613 
 
 55,306 
 
 1,393
 
 1,619 
 
 16,091 
 
 530 
 
 105,552 
  
131 
 
 
Commercial and 
Industrial
Commercial 
Real Estate 
Automobile 
Home  Equity
Residential 
Mortgage 
Other 
Consumer
Total 
ALLL at December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Portion of ending balance: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attributable to loans 
individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 63,307 
 65,130 
 1,477 
 1,498 
 11,780 
 668 
 143,860 
 
 
Attributable to loans 
collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 277,307 
 523,121 
 48,011 
 149,132 
 81,509 
 26,068 
 1,105,148 
 
ALLL balance at December 
31, 2010: 
$
 340,614 
$
 588,251 
$
 49,488 
$
 150,630 
$
 93,289 
$
 26,736 
$
 1,249,008 
Loans and Leases at December 
31, 2010: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Portion of ending balance: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Individually evaluated for 
impairment 
 198,120 
 310,668 
 29,764 
 37,257 
 334,207 
 9,565 
 919,581 
 
 
Collectively evaluated for 
impairment 
 12,865,173 
 6,340,488 
 5,584,947 
 7,675,897 
 4,166,159 
 554,262 
 37,186,926 
 
Total loans evaluated for 
impairment 
$
 13,063,293 
$
 6,651,156 
$
 5,614,711 
$
 7,713,154 
$
 4,500,366 
$
 563,827 
$
 38,106,507 
 
Portion of ending balance:


With allowance assigned to 
the loan and lease balances 
$ 
 173,243 
$ 
 241,256 
$
 29,764 
$
 37,257 
$
 334,207 
$ 
 9,565 
$
 825,292 
 

With no allowance assigned 
to the loan and lease 
balances 
 
 24,877 
 
 69,412 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 94,289 
 
Total

$ 
 198,120 
$ 
 310,668 
$
 29,764 
$
 37,257 
$
 334,207 
$ 
 9,565 
$
 919,581 
 
Average balance of impaired 
loans

$ 
 230,647 
$ 
 471,080 
$
 26,281 
$
 33,808 
$
 293,256 
$ 
 9,163 
$
 1,064,235 
 
ALLL on impaired loans

 
 63,308 
 
 65,129 
 
 1,477 
 
 1,498 
 
 11,780 
 
 668 
 
 143,860 

The following tables presen
t by class the ending, unpaid principal balance, 
and the related ALLL, along with the average balanc
e 
and interest income recognized only for loans and leases individua
lly evaluated for impairment and purchased credit-impaired lo
ans 
for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (1), (2): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended 
December 31, 2012
December 31, 2012 
 
 
Unpaid 
 
 
 
Interest 
 
 
Ending 
Principal 
Related 
Average 
Income 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Balance
Balance (5)
Allowance
Balance 
Recognized 
With no related allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 1,050 
$
 1,091 
$
 ---
$
 4,246 
$
 77 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 54,472 
 80,294 
 ---
 57,602 
 2,359 
 
Other commercial and 
industrial 
 
 31,841 
 54,520 
 ---
 11,922 
 555 
Total commercial and industrial 
$
 87,363 
$
 135,905 
$
 ---
$
 73,770 
$
 2,991 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
Retail properties 
$
 54,216 
$
 56,569 
$
 ---
$
 51,939 
$
 2,758 
132 
 
 
Multi family 
 
 5,719 
 5,862 
 ---
 5,631 
 353 
 
Office 
 
 20,051 
 24,843 
 ---
 6,734 
 405 
 
Industrial and warehouse 
 
 15,013 
 17,476 
 ---
 9,877 
 501 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
 126,923 
 226,093 
 ---
 141,278 
 5,497 
 
Other commercial real estate 
 
 10,479 
 10,728 
 ---
 15,125 
 501 
Total commercial real estate 
$
 232,401 
$
 341,571 
$
 ---
$
 230,584 
$
 10,015 
 
 
 
Automobile 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
Home equity: 
 
 
Secured by first-lien 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
Total home equity 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
Residential mortgage: 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
 2,243 
 4,104 
 ---
 3,521 
 97 
Total residential mortgage 
$
 2,243 
$
 4,104 
$
 ---
$
 3,521 
$
 97 
Other consumer: 
 
 
Other consumer 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
 140 
 245 
 ---
 622 
 6 
Total other consumer 
$
 140 
$
 245 
$
 ---
$
 622 
$
 6 
 
 
 
With an allowance recorded:
Commercial and industrial: (3) 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 46,266 
$
 56,925 
$
 5,730 
$
 40,029 
$
 1,327 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
Other commercial and 
industrial 
 
 40,378 
 52,996 
 5,964 
 65,893 
 2,304 
Total commercial and industrial 
$
 86,644 
$
 109,921 
$
 11,694 
$
 105,922 
$
 3,631 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate: (4) 
 
 
Retail properties 
$
 65,004 
$
 73,000 
$
 8,144 
$
 107,842 
$
 4,730 
 
Multi family 
 
 17,410 
 18,531 
 2,662 
 27,953 
 1,371 
 
Office 
 
 40,375 
 45,164 
 9,214 
 18,751 
 379 
 
Industrial and warehouse 
 
 22,450 
 25,374 
 1,092 
 24,454 
 717 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
Other commercial real estate 
 
 48,174 
 63,148 
 10,021 
 64,778 
 2,413 
Total commercial real estate 
$
 193,413 
$
 225,217 
$
 31,133 
$
 243,778 
$
 9,610 
 
 
Automobile 
$
 43,607 
$
 44,790 
$
 1,446 
$
 39,139 
$
 3,382 
Home equity: 
 
 
Secured by first-lien 
$
 76,258 
$
 80,831 
$
 1,329 
$
 54,898 
$
 2,651 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 41,274 
 63,390 
 3,454 
 24,625 
 1,382 
Total home equity 
$
 117,532 
$
 144,221 
$
 4,783 
$
 79,523 
$
 4,033 
Residential mortgage: (6) 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
$
 374,526 
$
 413,583 
$
 14,176 
$
 345,206 
$
 11,420 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
Total residential mortgage 
$
 374,526 
$
 413,583 
$
 14,176 
$
 345,206 
$
 11,420 
Other consumer: 
 
 
Other consumer 
$
 2,657 
$
 2,657 
$
 213 
$
 3,826 
$
 126 
 
Purchased credit-impaired 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
 ---
Total other consumer 
$
 2,657 
$
 2,657 
$
 213 
$
 3,826 
$
 126 
 
133 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended 
 
December 31, 2011
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
Unpaid 
 
 
 
 
Interest 
 
 
Ending 
Principal 
Related 
Average 
Income 
 
 
Balance 
Balance (5)
Allowance
Balance 
Recognized 
With no related allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and Industrial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 6,285 
$
 169 
 
 
Other commercial and 
industrial 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 5,040 
 
 162 
 
Total commercial and industrial 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
$
 11,325 
$
 331 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail properties 
$
 43,970 
$
 45,192 
$
 ---
 
$
 26,717 
$
 1,082 
 
 
Multi family 
 
 6,292 
 
 6,435 
 
 ---
 
 
 13,757 
 
 701 
 
 
Office 
 
 1,191 
 
 1,261 
 
 ---
 
 
 1,624 
 
 9 
 
 
Industrial and warehouse 
 
 8,163 
 
 9,945 
 
 ---
 
 
 3,961 
 
 131 
 
 
Other commercial real estate 
 
 22,396 
 
 38,401 
 
 ---
 
 
 25,077 
 
 796 
 
Total commercial real estate 
$
 82,012 
$
 101,234 
$
 ---
 
$
 71,136 
$
 2,719 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
$
 ---
 
Home equity loans and lines-of-
credit: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secured by first-lien 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other consumer loans 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With an allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and Industrial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner occupied 
$
 53,613 
$
 77,205 
$
 7,377 
 
$
 53,219 
$
 1,633 
 
 
Other commercial and 
industrial 
 
 100,111 
 
 117,469 
 
 23,236 
 
 
 100,635 
 
 2,952 
 
Total commercial and industrial 
$
 153,724 
$
 194,674 
$
 30,613 
 
$
 153,854 
$
 4,585 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial real estate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retail properties 
$
 129,396 
$
 161,596 
$
 30,363 
 
$
 102,384 
$
 2,897 
 
 
Multi family 
 
 38,154 
 
 45,138 
 
 4,753 
 
 
 28,847 
 
 829 
 
 
Office 
 
 23,568 
 
 42,287 
 
 2,832 
 
 
 26,589 
 
 228 
 
 
Industrial and warehouse 
 
 29,435 
 
 47,373 
 
 3,136 
 
 
 42,862 
 
 740 
 
 
Other commercial real estate 
 
 84,837 
 
 119,212 
 
 14,222 
 
 
 86,611 
 
 2,326 
 
Total commercial real estate 
$
 305,390 
$
 415,606 
$
 55,306 
 
$
 287,293 
$
 7,020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
$
 36,574 
$
 36,574 
$
 1,393 
 
$
 32,476 
$
 2,982 
 
Home equity loans and lines-of-
credit: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secured by first-lien 
 
 35,842 
 
 35,842 
 
 626 
 
 
 26,956 
 
 1,201 
 
 
Secured by junior-lien 
 
 16,751 
 
 16,751 
 
 993 
 
 
 15,947 
 
 751 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 335,768 
 
 361,161 
 
 16,091 
 
 
 335,549 
 
 12,894 
 
Other consumer loans 
 
 6,220 
 
 6,220 
 
 530 
 
 
 7,699 
 
 478 
(1) 
These tables do not include loans fully charged-off. 
(2) 
All automobile, home equity, residential mortgage
, and other consumer impaired loans included in 
these tables are considered impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
(3) 
At December 31, 2012, $44,265 thousand of the $86,644 thousand commercial and industrial loans 
with an allowance recorded were considered impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
134 
 
(4) 
At December 31, 2012, $31,605 thousand of the $193,413 thousand commercial real estate loans 
with an allowance recorded were considered impaired due to their status as a TDR. 
(5) 
The differences between the ending balance and 
unpaid principal balance amounts represent partial 
charge-offs. 
(6) 
At December 31, 2012, $28,695 thousand of the $374,526 thousand residential mortgage loans with 
an allowance recorded were guaranteed by the U.S. government. 

TDR Loans 
 
TDRs are modified loans where a concessi
on was provided to a borrower experiencing
 financial difficulties.  Loan modifications 
are considered TDRs when the concessions provided are not av
ailable to the borrower through either normal channels or other 
sources. However, not all loan modifications are TDRs.   
 
The amount of interest that would have been recorded under
 the original terms for total accruing TDR loans was $41.2 million fo
r 
2012, $37.7 million for 2011, and $30.6 million for 2010.  The total amount of interest recorded to interest income for these l
oans was 
$32.2 million for 2012, $28.2 million for 2011, and $23.9 million for 2010. 
 
TDR Concession Types 
 
The Company™s standards relating to loan 
modifications consider, among other factors
, minimum verified income requirements, 
cash flow analysis, and collateral valuations. 
 Each potential loan modification is review
ed individually and the terms of the 
loan are 
modified to meet a borrower™s specific circumstances at a point in 
time.  Commercial TDRs are review
ed and approved
 by our SAD.
 
The types of concessions provided to borrowers include: 
 

Interest rate reduction:  A reduction of the stated interest rate
 to a nonmarket rate for the remaining original life of the de
bt. 
 

Amortization or maturity date change beyond what the collateral supports, including any of the following: 
 
(1)Lengthens the amortization period of the amortized princ
ipal beyond market terms.  This concession reduces the 
minimum monthly payment and increases the amount of the 
balloon payment at the end of the term of the loan.  
Principal is generally not forgiven. 
(2)Reduces the amount of loan principal to be amortize
d.  This concession also reduces the minimum monthly 
payment and increases the amount of the balloon payment at 
the end of the term of the loan.  Principal is generally 
not forgiven. 
(3)Extends the maturity date or dates of the debt beyo
nd what the collateral su
pports.  This concession generally 
applies to loans without a balloon paym
ent at the end of the term of the loan. 
 

Chapter 7 bankruptcy:  A bankruptcy court™s discharge of a bo
rrower™s debt is considered a concession when the borrower 
does not reaffirm the discharged debt. 
 

Other:  A concession that is not categori
zed as one of the concessions described above.  These concessions include, but are 
not limited to:  principal forgiv
eness, collateral concessions, cove
nant concessions, and reduction of accrued interest.  
Principal forgiveness may result from any TDR modification of
 any concession type.  However, the aggregate amount of 
principal forgiven as a result of loans modified as TDRs during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, was not 
significant. 
 
TDRs by Loan Type 
 
Following is a description of TDRs by the different loan types: 
 
Commercial loan TDRs
 Œ Commercial accruing TDRs often result from loans receiving a concession with terms that 
are not considered a market transaction to Huntington.  The TDR remains in accruing status as long as the customer is 
less than 90-days past due on payments per the restructured loan terms and no loss is expected.   
 
  
135 
 
Commercial nonaccrual TDRs result from either: (1) an accruing commercial TDR being placed on nonaccrual 
status, or (2) a workout where an existing commercial NAL is
 restructured and a concession was given.  At times, 
these workouts restructure the NAL so that two or more ne
w notes are created.  The primary note is underwritten 
based upon our normal underwriting standards and is sized so
 projected cash flows are sufficient to repay contractual 
principal and interest.  The terms on th
e secondary note(s) vary by situation, an
d may include notes that defer principal 
and interest payments until after the pr
imary note is repaid.  Creating two or 
more notes often allows the borrower to 
continue a project or weather a temporary economic downtur
n and allows Huntington to right-size a loan based upon 
the current expectations for a borrower™s or project™s performance.   
 
Our strategy involving TDR borrowers includ
es working with these borrowers to allow them to refinance elsewhere, as well 
as allow them time to improve their financial position and remain our customer through refinancing their notes according to 
market terms and conditions in the future.  A refinancing or modification of a loan occurs when either the loan matures accordi
ng 
to the terms of the TDR-modified 
agreement or the borrower re
quests a change to the loan agreements. At that time, the loan is 
evaluated to determine if it is creditworthy. It is subjected to the normal underwriting standards and processes for other simi
lar 
credit extensions, both
 new and existing. 
 
In accordance with ASC 310-20-35, the refinanced note is evaluated to determine if it is considered a new loan or a 
continuation of the prior loan.  A new loan
 is considered for removal 
of the TDR designation, wher
eas a continuation of the pri
or 
note requires a continuation of the TDR designation.  In order fo
r a TDR designation to be removed, the borrower must no longer
 
be experiencing financial difficulties and the terms of th
e refinanced loan must not represent a concession.  
 
Residential Mortgage loan TDRs
 Œ Residential mortgage TDRs represent loan m
odifications associated with traditional first-lien 
mortgage loans in which a concession has been provided to the 
borrower.  The primary concessions given to residential mortgage 
borrowers are amortization or maturity da
te changes and interest rate reductions.  Residential mortgages identified as TDRs 
involve borrowers unable to refinance thei
r mortgages through the Company™s normal 
mortgage origination channels or through 
other independent sources.  Some, but not a
ll, of the loans may be delinquent.   
 
Automobile, Home Equity, and 
Other Consumer loan TDRs
 Œ The Company may make similar interest rate, term, and 
principal concessions as with residential mortgage loan TDRs.   
 
TDR Impact on Credit Quality 
 
Huntington™s ALLL is largely driven by upd
ated risk ratings assigned to commercial lo
ans, updated 
borrower cred
it scores on 
consumer loans, and borrower de
linquency history in both the commercial and consumer portfolios.  These updated risk ratings an
d 
credit scores consider the default history of the borrower, incl
uding payment redefaults.  As such, the provision for credit lo
sses is 
impacted primarily by changes in borrower payment performance rather than the TDR classification.  TDRs can be classified as ei
ther 
accrual or nonaccrual loans.  Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from NALs as it is 
probable that all contractual principal and interest 
due under the restructured terms will be collected.   
 
Our TDRs may include multiple concessions and the disclosure classifications are presented based on the primary concession 
provided to the borrower.  The majority of
 our concessions for the C&I and CRE portfolio
s are the extension of
 the maturity dat
e 
coupled with an increase in the interest r
ate.  In these instances, the primary conce
ssion is the maturity date extension.  
 
TDR concessions may also result in the reduction of the ALLL within the C&I and CRE portfolios. This reduction is derived 
from payments and the resulting 
application of the reserve calcul
ation within the ALLL.  The tr
ansaction reserve for non-TDR C&
I 
and CRE loans is calculated base
d upon several estimated probab
ility factors, such as PD and L
GD, both of which were previously
 
discussed above.  Upon the occurrence of a TDR in our C&I and CRE portfolios, the reserve is measured based on discounted 
expected cash flows or collateral value, less selling costs, of the modified loan in accordance with ASC 310-10.  The resulting
 TDR 
ALLL calculation often results in a lower ALLL amount because (1) the discounted expected cash flows or collateral value, less 
selling costs, indicate a lower estimated loss,
 (2) if the modification includes a rate increase, the discounting of the cash f
lows on the 
modified loan, using the pre-modification inte
rest rate, exceeds the carrying value of the loan, or (3) payments may occur as p
art of 
the modification.  The ALLL for C&I and CRE loans may increase as a result of the modification, as the discounted cash flow 
analysis may indicate additional reserves are required. 
 
TDR concessions on consumer loans may increase the ALLL.  Th
e concessions made to these borrowers often include interest 
rate reductions, and therefore, the TDR ALLL calculation results in
 a greater ALLL compared with the non-TDR calculation as the
 
reserve is measured based on the estimati
on of the discounted expected cash flows or 
collateral value, less selling costs, on t
he 
modified loan in accordance with ASC 310-10. The resulting TDR ALLL calculation often results in a higher ALLL amount because 
(1) the discounted expected cash flows or 
collateral value, less selling costs, indi
cate a higher estimated loss or, (2) due to
 the rate 
decrease, the discounting of the cash flow
s on the modified loan, using the pre-modi
fication interest rate, indicates a reducti
on in the 
136 
 
expected cash flows or collateral value, less selling costs.  In certain instances, the ALLL may decrease as a result of paymen
ts made 
in connection with the modification. 
 
Commercial loan TDRs
 Œ  In instances where the bank 
substantiates that it will collect its outsta
nding balance in full, the note is 
considered for return to accrual status upon the borrower sustaining
 sufficient cash flows for a si
x-month period of time.  Thi
s six-
month period could extend before or after 
the restructure date.  If a charge-off was 
taken as part of the restructuring, any in
terest or 
principal payments received on that note are applied to first reduce the bank™s outstanding book balance and then to recoveries
 of 
charged-off principal, unpaid interest, and/or fee expenses. 
 
Residential Mortgage, Automobile, Home E
quity, and Other Consumer loan TDRs
 Œ Modified loans identified as TDRs are 
aggregated into pools fo
r analysis.  Cash flows and weight
ed average interest rates are used to calculate impairment at the poo
led-loan 
level.  Once the loans are aggregated
 into the pool, they continue to be classified
 as TDRs until contractually repaid or charg
ed-off.  
 
Residential mortgage loans not guaranteed by a U.S. government
 agency such as the FHA, VA, and the USDA, including TDR 
loans, are reported as accrual or nonaccrual based upon delinquency status.  Nonaccrual TDRs are those that are greater than 15
0-days 
contractually past due.  Loans guaranteed 
by U.S. government organizations continue 
to accrue interest upon delinquency.   
 
The following table presents by class and by the reason for the modification the number of contracts, post-
modification outstanding balance, and the financial effects of
 the modification for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011:  
 
 
 
New Troubled Debt Restructurings During The Year Ended
(1)
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
Post-modification
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outstanding
 
 
 
 
Post-modification
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Number of
Ending 
Financial effects
 
Number of
Outstanding 
Financial effects
 
Contracts
Balance 
of modification
(2)
 
Contracts
Balance 
of modification
(2)
C&I - Owner occupied:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 28 
$
 10,501 
$
 145
 
 40 
$
 19,152 
$
 (531)
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 95 
 23,337 
 660
 
 60 
 
 22,378 
 
 (1,838)
 
Other
 
 16 
 4,923 
 1,089
 
 7 
 
 3,373 
 
 231
Total C&I - Owner occupied
 
 139 
$
 38,761 
$
 1,894
 
 107 
$ 
 44,903 
$
 (2,138)
 
 
 
 
 
C&I - Other commercial and 
industrial:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 27 
$
 7,436 
$
 (2)
 
 28 
$
 22,519 
$
 (74)
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 141 
 76,814 
 (3,037)
 
 73 
 
 27,822 
 
 (176)
 
Other
 
 32 
 37,202 
 1,265
 
 31 
 
 56,184 
 
 (3,131)
Total C&I - Other commercial and 
industrial
 
 200 
$
 121,452 
$
 (1,774)
 
 132 
$ 
 106,525 
$
 (3,381)
 
 
 
 
 
CRE - Retail properties:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 9 
$
 6,883 
$
 957
 
 9 
$
 47,473 
$
 4,242
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 15 
 4,472 
 (25)
 
 20 
 
 31,521 
 
 6,112
 
Other
 
 3 
 1,680 
 (1)
 
 7 
 
 15,672 
 
 1,267
Total CRE - Retail properties
 
 27 
$
 13,035 
$
 931
 
 36 
$ 
 94,666 
$
 11,621
 
 
 
 
 
CRE - Multi family:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 11 
$
 1,288 
$
 (27)
 
 13 
$
 6,601 
$
 (208)
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 32 
 3,554 
 (1)
 
 10 
 
 2,744 
 
 22
 
Other
 
 7 
 7,961 
 668
 
 3 
 
 869 
 
 388
Total CRE - Multi family
 
 50 
$
 12,803 
$
 640
 
 26 
$ 
 10,214 
$
 202
 
 
 
 
 
137 
 
CRE - Office:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 4 
$
 4,155 
$
 (236)
 
 5 
$
 1,923 
$
 212
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 12 
 40,152 
 4,199
 
 2 
 
 1,238 
 
 83
 
Other
 
 6 
 1,637 
 276
 
 3 
 
 ---
 
 (408)
Total CRE - Office
 
 22 
$
 45,944 
$
 4,239
 
 10 
$ 
 3,161 
$
 (113)
 
 
 
 
 
CRE - Industrial and warehouse:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 3 
$
 7,470 
$
 (296)
 
 1 
$
 2,165 
$
 (299)
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 16 
 34,613 
 (3,857)
 
 7 
 
 19,448 
 
 (5,446)
 
Other
 
 1 
 1,047 
 (30)
 
 1 
 
 2,147 
 
 (937)
Total CRE - Industrial and Warehouse
 
 20 
$
 43,130 
$
 (4,183)
 
 9 
$ 
 23,760 
$
 (6,682)
 
 
 
 
 
CRE - Other commercial real 
estate:
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 10 
$
 2,944 
$
 (288)
 
 18 
$
 18,620 
$
 (1,180)
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 48 
 80,672 
 4,090
 
 64 
 
 106,532 
 
 (2,288)
 
Other
 
 6 
 10,030 
 (2,024)
 
 5 
 
 8,199 
 
 19
Total CRE - Other commercial real 
estate
 
 64 
$
 93,646 
$
 1,778
 
 87 
$ 
 133,351 
$
 (3,449)
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile:
(4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 40 
$
 368 
$
 4
 
 38 
$ 
 554 
$
 4
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 1,910 
 13,186 
 (103)
 
 2,010 
 
 17,221 
 
 (143)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 2,104 
 12,423 
 1,866
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Total Automobile
 
 4,054 
$
 25,977 
$
 1,767
 
 2,048 
$ 
 17,775 
$
 (139)
 
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage:
(5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 25 
$
 8,795 
$
 (40)
 
 10 
$
 12,637 
$
 (567)
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 482 
 65,336 
 1,394
 
 655 
 
 91,979 
 
 1,988
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 583 
 45,193 
 4,854
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 15 
 1,836 
 81
 
 26 
 
 4,391 
 
 108
Total Residential mortgage
 
 1,105 
$
 121,160 
$
 6,289
 
 691 
$
 109,007 
$
 1,529
 
 
 
 
 
First-lien home equity:
(6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 222 
$
 28,381 
$
 4,424
 
 142 
$ 
 17,275 
$
 2,722
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 130 
 10,468 
 (49)
 
 89 
 
 10,636 
 
 616
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 188 
 8,317 
 4,244
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Total First-lien home equity
 
 540 
$
 47,166 
$
 8,619
 
 231 
$ 
 27,911 
$
 3,338
 
 
 
 
 
Junior-lien home equity:
(7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 60 
$
 3,023 
$
 494
 
 127 
$ 
 6,521 
$
 430
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 390 
 15,040 
 (432)
 
 117 
 
 4,096 
 
 39
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 1,241 
 13,347 
 18,564
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 7 
 288 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Total Junior-lien home equity
 
 1,698 
$
 31,698 
$
 18,626
 
 244 
$ 
 10,617 
$
 469
 
 
 
 
 
Other consumer:
(8) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
138 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 14 
$
 305 
$
 32
 
 14 
$ 
 1,104 
$
 74
 
Amortization or maturity date 
change
 
 27 
 2,150 
 (111)
 
 63 
 
 445 
 
 (21)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 14 
 198 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Total Other consumer
 
 55 
$
 2,653 
$
 (79)
 
 77 
$ 
 1,549 
$
 53
Total new troubled debt 
restructurings
 
 7,974 
$
 597,425 
$
 38,747
 
 3,698 
$ 
 583,439 
$
 1,310
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
 
TDRs may include multiple concessions and th
e disclosure classifications are based on the primary concession provided to the bo
rrower.
(2)
 
Amounts represent the financial impact via provision for 
loan and lease losses as a result of the modification. 
(3)
 
Post-modification balances approximate pre-m
odification balances.  The aggregate amount 
of charge-offs as a result of a restruc
turing 
are not significant. 
(4)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy pre-modification balances were impacted by $1.3 million of net charge-offs in 2012. 
(5)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy pre-modification balances were impacted by $7.9 million of net charge-offs in 2012. 
(6)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy pre-modification balances were impacted by $3.9 million of net charge-offs in 2012. 
(7)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy pre-modification balances were impacted by $21.5 million of net charge-offs in 2012. 
(8)
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy pre-modification ba
lances were not significantly impacted by net charge-offs in 2012. 

Any loan within any portf
olio or class is considered as payment redefaulted at 90-days past due. 
 
The following table presents TDRs that have redefaulted 
within one year of modification during the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011: 
 
 
 
Troubled Debt Restructurings That Have Redefaulted
 
 
Within One Year of Modifica
tion During The Year Ended
 
December 31, 2012
(1)
December 31, 2011
(1)
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Number of
Ending 
Number of
 
Ending 
 
Contracts
Balance 
Contracts
 
Balance 
 
 
 
 
C&I - Owner occupied:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 4 
$
 1,390 
13
$
6,173 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 13 
 2,380 
10
 
5,201 
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
2
 
2,352 
Total C&I - Owner occupied
 
 17 
$
 3,770 
25
$
13,726 
 
 
 
C&I - Other commercial and industrial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 3 
$
 401 
1
$
98 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 14 
 609 
12
 
10,140 
 
Other
 
 3 
 387 
 ---
 
 ---
Total C&I - Other commercial and industrial
 
 20 
$
 1,397 
13
$
10,238 
 
 
 
CRE - Retail Properties:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 ---
$
 ---
 ---
$
 ---
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 3 
 372 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total CRE - Retail properties
 
 3 
$
 372 
 ---
$
 ---
 
 
 
CRE - Multi family:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 2 
$
 1,236 
4
$
1,102 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 2 
 343 
2
 
456 
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total CRE - Multi family
 
 4 
$
 1,579 
6
$
1,558 
 
 
 
CRE - Office:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 ---
$
 ---
 ---
$
 ---
139 
 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total CRE - Office
 
 ---
$
 ---
 ---
$
 ---
 
 
 
CRE - Industrial and Warehouse:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 ---
$
 ---
 ---
$
 ---
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 1 
 413 
8
 
3,665 
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total CRE - Industrial and Warehouse
 
 1 
$
 413 
8
$
3,665 
 
 
 
CRE - Other commercial real estate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 1 
$
 898 
3
$
648 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 4 
 646 
10
 
2,014 
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total CRE - Other commercial real estate
 
 5 
$
 1,544 
13
$
2,662 
 
 
 
Automobile:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 4 
$
 ---
1
$
 ---
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 132 
 69 
198
 
 ---
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 34 
 149 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total Automobile
 
 170 
$
 218 
199
$
 ---
 
 
 
Residential mortgage:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 2 
$
 61 
2
$
148 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 100 
 13,574 
57
 
6,900 
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 30 
 4,085 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 7 
 804 
4
 
531 
Total Residential mortgage
 
 139 
$
 18,524 
63
$
7,579 
 
 
 
First-lien home equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 11 
$
 932 
2
$
692 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 5 
 503 
7
 
436 
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 2 
 124 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total First-lien home equity
 
 18 
$
 1,559 
9
$
1,128 
 
 
 
Junior-lien home equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 2 
$
 112 
3
$
272 
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 3 
 99 
8
 
614 
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 7 
 30 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total Junior-lien home equity
 
 12 
$
 241 
11
$
886 
 
 
 
Other consumer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate reduction
 
 1 
$
 ---
1
$
 ---
 
Amortization or maturity date change
 
 3 
 ---
11
 
 ---
 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 
Other
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
Total Other consumer
 
 4 
$
 ---
12
$
 ---
 
 
 
 
Total troubled debt restructurings with 
subsequent redefault
 
 393 
$
29,617 
359
$
41,442 
140 
 
(1)
 
Subsequent redefault is defined as a payment redefault 
within 12 months of the restructuring date.  Payment 
redefault is defined as 90-days past 
due for any loan in any po
rtfolio or class.  Any lo
an in any portfolio may 
be considered to be in payment redefault prior to 
the guidelines noted 
above when collection of principal or 
interest is in doubt. 

Pledged Loans and Leases 
The Bank has access to the Federal Reserve™s discount window and advances from the FHLB Œ Cincinnati.  At December 31, 
2012, these borrowings and advances are secured by $18.4 billion of loans. 
 
4.  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES
 
 
Contractual maturities of available-for-sale and other securities as of December 31 were: 
 
 
 
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
 
 
Amortized 
Fair
Amortized 
Fair  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Cost
Value 
Cost
Value 
Under 1 year 
$
 60,054 
$
 60,651 
$ 
 103,747 
 
$
 104,074 
1 - 5 years 
 
 1,961,217 
 2,005,022 
 
 2,608,656 
 
 
 2,614,845 
6 - 10 years 
 
 1,170,807 
 1,208,054 
 
 870,324 
 
 
 887,725 
Over 10 years 
 
 3,989,977 
 3,967,196 
 
 4,201,047 
 
 
 4,131,236 
Other securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
onmarketable equity securities 
 
 308,075 
 308,075 
 
 286,515 
 
 
 286,515 
 
Marketable equity securities 
 
 16,877 
 17,177 
 
 53,665 
 
 
 53,619 
Total available-fo
r-sale and other securities
 
$
 7,507,007 
$
 7,566,175 
$
 
 8,123,954 
 
$
 8,078,014 
 
Other securities at December 31, 2012 and 2011 include nonmarketable equity securities of $165.6 million of stock issued by the
 
FHLB of Cincinnati, $3.5 million and none, re
spectively, of stock issued by the FHLB 
of Indianapolis, and $139.0 million and $1
20.9 
million, of Federal Reserve Bank stock, re
spectively. Nonmarketable equity securities ar
e valued at amortized cost.   Other sec
urities 
also include marketable equity securities. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Huntington did not have any material equity positions
 in 
FNMA or FHLMC.  
 
The following tables provide amortized cost
, fair value, and gross unrea
lized gains and losses recogni
zed in OCI by investment 
category at December 31, 2012 and 2011: 
 
 
 
 
 
Unrealized
 
 
 
Amortized 
Gross 
Gross 
Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Cost
Gains 
Losses 
Value 
December 31, 2012 
    
U.S. Treasury
$
 51,620 
 
$
 691 
 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 52,311 
Federal agencies: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
 
 4,149,964 
 
 
 114,984 
 
 
 (278)
 
 
 4,264,670 
 
Other agencies 
 
 348,846 
 
 
 10,781 
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 359,626 
Total U.S. government backed securities 
 
 4,550,430 
 
 
 126,456 
 
 
 (279)
 
 
 4,676,607 
Municipal securities 
 
 489,080 
 
 
 13,927 
 
 
 (2,007)
 
 
 501,000 
Private-label CMO 
 
 75,557 
 
 
 1,087 
 
 
 (5,076)
 
 
 71,568 
Asset-backed securities (1) 
 
 1,126,315 
 
 
 16,287 
 
 
 (113,519)
 
 
 1,029,083 
Covered bonds 
 
 282,080 
 
 
 8,545 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 290,625 
Corporate debt 
 
 654,693 
 
 
 15,301 
 
 
 (1,852)
 
 
 668,142 
Other securities 
 
 328,852 
 
 
 333 
 
 
 (35)
 
 
 329,150 
Total available-fo
r-sale and other securities
 
$
 7,507,007 
$
 181,936 
$
 (122,768)
$
 7,566,175 
(1) Amounts at December 31, 2012 include securities backed by automobile loans with a fair value of $3 million which meet the 
eligibility requirements for the Term Asset
-Backed Securities Loan Facility, admi
nistered by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
Unrealized
 
 
 
Amortized 
Gross 
Gross 
Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Cost
Gains 
Losses 
Value 
December 31, 2011 
    
U.S. Treasury
$
 52,282 
 
$
 922 
 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 53,204 
Federal agencies: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
 4,378,623 
 
 
 88,266 
 
 
 (1,997)
 
 
 4,464,892 
 
Other agencies 
 724,726 
 
 
 10,821 
 
 
 (3)
 
 
 735,544 
Total U.S. government backed securities 
 
 5,155,631 
 
 
 100,009 
 
 
 (2,000)
 
 
 5,253,640 
Municipal securities 
 
 394,862 
 
 
 12,889 
 
 
 (25)
 
 
 407,726 
Private-label CMO 
 
 84,598 
 
 
 347 
 
 
 (12,581)
 
 
 72,364 
Asset-backed securities (2) 
 
 1,100,290 
 
 
 3,925 
 
 
 (137,127)
 
 
 967,088 
Covered bonds 
 
 510,937 
 
 
 860 
 
 
 (7,752)
 
 
 504,045 
Corporate debt 
 
 533,306 
 
 
 891 
 
 
 (5,314)
 
 
 528,883 
Other securities 
 
 344,330 
 
 
 219 
 
 
 (281)
 
 
 344,268 
Total available-for-sale and other securities 
$
 8,123,954 
 
$
 119,140 
 
$ 
 (165,080)
 
$
 8,078,014 
(2) Amounts at December 31, 2011 include securities backed by automobile loans with a fair value of $145 million which meet the
 
eligibility requirements for the Term Asset-Backed Securities 
Loan Facility, administered by
 the Federal Reserve Bank.
 
The following tables provide detail on inve
stment securities with unrealized losses 
aggregated by investment category and the 
length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous loss position, at December 31, 2012 and 2011:  
 
 
 
 
Less than 12 Months
Over 12 Months
 
Total
Fair 
Unrealized 
Fair 
Unrealized 
 
Fair
Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
 
Value
 
Losses 
Value 
Losses 
 
Value
Losses 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 ---
Federal Agencies: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
 
 44,836 
 
 
 (278)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 44,836 
 
 
 (278)
 
Other agencies 
 
 801 
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 801 
 
 
 (1)
Total U.S. Government backed securities 
 
 45,637 
 
 
 (279)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 45,637 
 
 
 (279)
Municipal securities 
 
 51,316 
 
 
 (2,007)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 51,316 
 
 
 (2,007)
Private label CMO 
 
 22,793 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 34,617 
 
 
 (5,076)
 
 
 57,410 
 
 
 (5,076)
Asset-backed securities 
 
 28,089 
 
 
 (73)
 
 
 108,660 
 
 
 (113,446)
 
 
 136,749 
 
 
 (113,519)
Covered bonds 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
Corporate debt 
 
 138,792 
 
 
 (1,472)
 
 
 119,620 
 
 
 (380)
 
 
 258,412 
 
 
 (1,852)
Other securities 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 1,630 
 
 
 (35)
 
 
 1,630 
 
 
 (35)
Total temporarily impaired securities
 
$
 286,627 
$
 (3,831)
$
 264,527 
$
 (118,937)
$
 551,154 
$
 (122,768)
 
142 
 
 
 
 
Less than 12 Months
Over 12 Months
 
Total
Fair 
Unrealized 
Fair 
Unrealized 
 
Fair
Unrealized 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
Value
 
Losses 
Value 
Losses 
 
Value
Losses 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 ---
Federal Agencies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
 
 417,614 
 
 
 (1,997)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 417,614 
 
 
 (1,997)
 
Other agencies 
 
 3,070 
 
 
 (3)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 3,070 
 
 
 (3)
Total U.S. Government backed securities 
 
 420,684 
 
 
 (2,000)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 420,684 
 
 
 (2,000)
Municipal securities 
 
 6,667 
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 7,311 
 
 
 (24)
 
 
 13,978 
 
 
 (25)
Private label CMO 
 
 11,613 
 
 
 (48)
 
 
 51,039 
 
 
 (12,533)
 
 
 62,652 
 
 
 (12,581)
Asset-backed securities 
 
 252,671 
 
 
 (547)
 
 
 113,663 
 
 
 (136,580)
 
 
 366,334 
 
 
 (137,127)
Covered bonds 
 
 363,694 
 
 
 (7,214)
 
 
 14,684 
 
 
 (538)
 
 
 378,378 
 
 
 (7,752)
Corporate debt 
 
 237,401 
 
 
 (3,652)
 
 
 198,338 
 
 
 (1,662)
 
 
 435,739 
 
 
 (5,314)
Other securities 
 
 1,984 
 
 
 (16)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 (265)
 
 
 1,984 
 
 
 (281)
Total temporarily impaired securities 
$ 
 1,294,714 
 
$
 (13,478)
 
$
 385,035 
 
$
 (151,602)
 
$ 
 1,679,749 
 
$
 (165,080)
 
At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of investment securities pledged to secure public and trust deposits, trading account 
liabilities, U.S. Treasury demand notes, and secur
ity repurchase agreements totaled $3.1 
billion. There were no securities of a
 single 
issuer, which are not governmental or government-sponsored, that exceeded 10% of shareholders™ equity at December 31, 2012.  
 
The following table is a summary of realized securities gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
 
2011  
2010  
 
Gross gains on sales of securities 
$
 8,612 
$
 
 18,641
 
$
 28,992 
 
Gross (losses) on sales of securities 
 
 (2,224)
 
 (14,959)
 
 
 (15,544)
Net gain (loss) on sales of securities
 
$
 6,388 
$
 
 3,682
 
$
 13,448 
 
Alt-A Mortgage-Backed, Pooled-Trust-Pre
ferred, and Private-Label CMO Securities 
 
Our three highest risk segments of our in
vestment portfolio are the Alt-A mortgage
-backed, pooled-trust-preferred, and 2003-
2006 vintage private-label CMO port
folios.  The Alt-A mortgage-backed securities 
and pooled-trust-preferred securities are in t
he 
asset-backed securities portfolio.  These se
gments are in run-off, and we have not 
purchased these types of securities since 20
08.  The 
performance of the underlying securities in 
each of these segments reflects the deteri
oration of trust pref
erred issuers and 20
03 to 2006 
non-agency mortgages.  Each of these securities in these thr
ee segments is subjected to a rigorous review of its projected cash
 flows.  
These reviews are supported with analysis from independent third parties. 
The following table presents the 
credit ratings for our Alt-A mo
rtgage-backed, pooled-trust-p
referred, and private label CMO 
securities as of December 31, 2012 and 2011: 
 
Credit Ratings of Selected Investment Securities (1)
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
Average Credit Rating of Fair Value Amount 
 
Amortized
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cost
 
Fair Value
 
 
AAA 
 
AA +/- 
 
A +/-
 
 
BBB +/-
 
<BBB- 
 
Private-label CMO securities 
$
 75,557 
$
 71,568 
$
 22,793
$
 ---
$
 13,425 
$
 3,801 
$
 31,549
 
Alt-A mortgage-backed securities 
 27,712 
 25,742 
 ---
 25,742 
 ---
 ---
 ---
 
Pooled-trust-preferred securities 
 195,760 
 84,296 
 ---
 ---
 22,338 
 ---
 61,958
Total at December 31, 2012 
$
 299,029 
$
 181,606 
$
 22,793
$
 25,742 
$
 35,763 
$
 3,801 
$
 93,507
Total at December 31, 2011
$
 342,867 
$
 194,062 
$
 1,045
$
 23,353 
$
 52,935 
$
 6,858 
$
 109,871
(1)
 
 Credit ratings reflect the lowest current rating assigned by a nationally recognized credit rating agency. 
 
Negative changes to the above credit ratings would generally result in an increase of our risk-weighted assets, and a reduction
 to 
our regulatory capital ratios.
 
143 
 
The following table summarizes
 the relevant characteristics of 
our pooled-trust-preferred secur
ities portfolio, which are inclu
ded 
in asset-backed securities, at December 31, 2012 and 2011.  Each security is part of a pool of issuers and supports a more seni
or 
tranche of securities except for the I-Pre TSL II, and MM Comm III securities which are the most senior class.  
 
Trust Preferred Securities Data
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Actual
 
Deferrals 
Expected 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and
Defaults
 
# of Issuers 
Defaults
as a % of 
 
Lowest 
Currently 
as a % of 
Remaining
 
Amortized 
Fair 
Unrealized
Credit 
Performing/ 
Original 
Performing
Excess 
Deal Name
 
Par Value
 
Cost 
Value
Loss (2) 
Rating (3)
Remaining (4)
Collateral 
Collateral
Subordination (5)
Alesco II (1)
$ 
41,647 
$ 
30,440 
$ 
10,656 
$
(19,784)
C 
30/35 
 11 
%
 12 
%
 ---
%
Alesco IV (1) 
 
21,522 
 
8,247 
 
2,821 
 
(5,426)
C 
31/39 
 12 
 
 17 
 
 ---
 
ICONS 
 
20,000 
 
20,000 
 
13,186 
 
(6,814)
BB 
23/24 
 3 
 
 15 
 
 52
 
I-Pre TSL II 
 
30,346 
 
30,268 
 
22,338 
 
(7,930)
A 
23/25 
 5 
 
 13 
 
 74
 
MM Comm III 
 
7,220 
 
6,898 
 
4,357 
 
(2,541)
B 
6/10 
 5 
 
 9 
 
 24
 
Pre TSL IX  
 
5,000 
 
3,955 
 
1,533 
 
(2,422)
C 
31/46 
 22 
 
 14 
 
 6
 
Pre TSL X (1) 
 
17,768 
 
9,432 
 
5,208 
 
(4,224)
C 
34/50 
 27 
 
 14 
 
 ---
 
Pre TSL XI (1) 
 
25,428 
 
22,005 
 
6,998 
 
(15,007)
C 
42/62 
 29 
 
 16 
 
 ---
 
Pre TSL XIII (1) 
 
28,932 
 
22,701 
 
7,152 
 
(15,549)
C 
41/63 
 34 
 
 26 
 
 ---
 
Reg Diversified (1) 
 
25,500 
 
6,908 
 
380 
 
(6,528)
D 
23/43 
 43 
 
 14 
 
 ---
 
Soloso (1) 
 
12,500 
 
3,906 
 
503 
 
(3,403)
C 
39/64 
 30 
 
 24 
 
 ---
 
Tropic III 
 
31,000 
 
31,000 
 
9,164 
 
(21,836)
CC 
23/42 
 36 
 
 28 
 
 29
 
Total at December 31, 2012
 
$
266,863
$
195,760
$
84,296
$
(111,464)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total at December 31, 2011 
$ 
268,853 
$ 
200,585 
$ 
73,809 
$
(126,776)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  
Security was determined to have OTTI.  As such, the book value is net of recorded credit impairment. 
(2)  
The majority of securities have been in a continuous loss position for 12 months or longer. 
(3)  
For purposes of comparability, the lowest credit rating expressed is equivalent to Fitch ratings even where the lowest rating i
s based on another 
nationally recognized credit rating agency. 
(4)  
Includes both banks and/or insurance companies. 
(5)  
Excess subordination percentage represents the additional defaults in excess of both current and projected defaults that the CD
O can absorb before 
the bond experiences credit impairment.  Excess subordinated percentage is calculated by (a) determining what percentage of def
aults a deal can 
experience before the bond has credit impairment, and (b) subtracting from this default breakage percentage both total current 
and expected future 
default percentages. 
 
Security Impairment 
 
Huntington evaluates its availab
le-for-sale securities portfolio on a quarterly basi
s for indicators of OTTI.  Huntington asses
ses 
whether OTTI has occurred when the fair value of a debt security
 is less than the amortized cost basis at period-end.  Manageme
nt 
reviews the amount of unrealized
 loss, the length of time the security has been
 in an unrealized loss 
position, the credit rati
ng history, 
market trends of similar security classes, time remaining to matu
rity, and the source of both interest and principal payments t
o identify 
securities which could potentially be impaired.  OTTI is considered
 to have occurred; (1) if Huntington intends to sell the sec
urity; (2) 
if it is more likely than not Huntington w
ill be required to sell the security before
 recovery of its amortized cost basis; or 
(3) the 
present value of the expected cash flows is
 not sufficient to reco
ver all contractually required 
principal and in
terest payment
s. 
 
For securities that Huntington does
 not expect to sell and it is not more likely than
 not to be required to sell, the OTTI is s
eparated 
into credit and noncredit components.  A discounted cash flow analysis, which includes evaluating the timing of the expected ca
sh 
flows, is completed for all debt securities subject to credit impairment.  The measurement of the credit loss component is equa
l to the 
difference between the debt security™s cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the sec
urity™s 
original effective yield.  The credit-related OTTI, represented by
 the expected loss in
 principal, is recognized in noninterest
 income. 
The remaining difference between the security™s fair value and 
the present value of future expected cash flows is due to factor
s that are 
not credit-related and, therefore, are rec
ognized in OCI.  Huntington believes th
at it will fully collect the carrying value of
 securities 
on which noncredit-related OTTI has been recognized in OCI.  N
oncredit-related OTTI results from other factors, including incre
ased 
liquidity spreads and extension of the secur
ity. For securities which Huntington does e
xpect to sell, or if it is more likely t
han not 
Huntington will be required to sell the s
ecurity before recovery of its amortized cost 
basis, all OTTI is recognized in earning
s. 
Presentation of OTTI is made in the Consolidated Statements of
 Income on a gross basis with a reduction for the amount of OTTI 
recognized in OCI. Once an OTTI is recorded, when future cash flows can be reasonably estimated, future cash flows are re-alloc
ated 
between interest and principal cash flows to
 provide for a level-yield on the security. 
144 
 
 
Huntington applied the related OTTI guidance on
 the debt security types listed below.   
 
Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label 
CMO securities are collateralized by first-
lien residential mortgage loans.  The 
securities are valued by a third party pricing specialist using 
a discounted cash flow approach
 and proprietary pricing model. 
 The 
model uses inputs such as estimated prepayment speeds, losses,
 recoveries, default rates that are implied by the underlying 
performance of collateral in the structure or similar structures,
 discount rates that are implied by market prices for similar 
securities, 
collateral structure types, and house price depreciation / ap
preciation rates that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts.  
 
Pooled-trust-preferred securities are CDOs backed by a pool of 
debt securities issued by financial institutions.  The collatera
l 
generally consists of trust-pref
erred securities and subordinated de
bt securities issued by bank
s, bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies.  A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within 
this 
portfolio.  A third party pricing specialist with
 direct industry experience in pooled-t
rust-preferred security evaluations is 
engaged to 
provide assistance estimating the fair value and expected cash flows on this portfolio. The full cash flow analysis is complete
d by 
evaluating the relevant credit and structural aspects of each pooled-trust-preferred security in the portfolio, including colla
teral 
performance projections for each piece of collateral in the security and terms of the security™s structure. The credit review i
ncludes an 
analysis of profitability, credit quality, operating efficiency, lev
erage, and liquidity using available financial and regulato
ry 
information for each underlying collateral issuer. The analysis also includes a review of historical industry default data, cur
rent/near 
term operating conditions, and the impact of 
macroeconomic and regulatory changes.  Usi
ng the results of our analysis, we estim
ate 
appropriate default and recovery probabilities for each piece of collateral then estimate the expected cash flows for each secu
rity. The 
cumulative probability of default range
s from a low of 1% to 100%.   
 
Many collateral issuers have the option of deferring interest payments 
on their debt for up to five
 years.  For issuers who are
 
deferring interest, assumptions are made regarding the issuers 
ability to resume interest paymen
ts and make the required princi
pal 
payment at maturity; the cumulative probability 
of default for these issuers currently 
ranges from 1% to 100%, and a 10% recove
ry 
assumption.  The fair value of each security is obtained by discounting the expected cash flows at a market discount rate, rang
ing from 
LIBOR plus 4.25% to LIBOR plus 16.25% as of December 31, 2012.  The market discount rate is determined by reference to yields 
observed in the market for similarly rated collateralized debt
 obligations, specifically high-y
ield collateralized loan obligat
ions.  The 
relatively high market discount rate is re
flective of the uncertainty of the cash fl
ows and illiquid nature of these securities
.  The large 
differential between the fair value and amortized cost of some of
 the securities reflects the high
 market discount rate and the
 
expectation that the majority of the cash flows will not be received
 until near the final maturity of the security (the final m
aturities 
range from 2032 to 2035). 
 
For the periods ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the following table summarizes by security type, OTTI recognized in 
the Consolidated Statements of In
come for securities evaluated for im
pairment as described above: 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
Available-for-sale and other securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alt-A Mortgage-backed 
$
 ---
$ 
 (361)
$
 (1,632)
 
Pooled-trust-preferred 
 
 ---
 
 (3,798)
 
 (4,922)
 
Private label CMO 
 
 (1,614)
 
 (2,550)
 
 (7,149)
 
Total debt securities 
 
 (1,614)
 
 (6,709)
 
 (13,703)
 
Equity securities 
 
 (5)
 
 (654)
 
 (19)
Total available-for-sale and other securities
 
$
 (1,619)
$ 
 (7,363)
$
 (13,722)
 
The following table rolls 
forward the OTTI recognized in earnings on debt 
securities held by Huntington for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011 as follows: 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012  
2011  
Balance, beginning of year
$ 
 56,764 
$
 54,536 
 
Reductions from sales 
 
 (8,945)
 
 (4,481)
 
Credit losses not pre
viously recognized 
 
 ---
 
 42 
 
Additional credit losses 
 
 1,614 
 
 6,667 
Balance, end of year
 
$
 49,433 
$
 56,764 
 
 
 
145 
 
The contractual terms and / or cash flows of the investments do 
not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less 
than the 
amortized cost. Huntington
 does not intend to sell, nor do
es it believe it will be required to
 sell these securities until the 
fair value is 
recovered, which may be maturity and; ther
efore, does not consid
er them to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2
012. 
 
As of December 31, 2012, Management has evaluated all other investment securities with unrealized losses and all nonmarketable 
securities for impairment and concluded 
no additional OTTI is required.  
 
5.  HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES
 
 
These are debt securities that Huntington
 has the intent and ab
ility to hold until maturity. The 
debt securities are carried at
 
amortized cost and adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the interest method.  
 
During 2012 and 2011, Huntington transferred $278.7 million and $469.1 million, respectively of federal agencies, mortgage-
backed securities and other agency secu
rities from the available-for-sale securities portfo
lio to the held-to-maturity securiti
es portfolio. 
At the time of the transfer, $0
.1 million and $0.5 million, 
respectively of unrealized net gains were recognized in OCI.  The a
mounts 
in OCI will be recognized in earnings over the remaining life 
of the securities as an offset to 
the adjustment of yield in a ma
nner 
consistent with the amortization of the premiu
m on the same transferred securities, resu
lting in an immaterial impact on net in
come. 
 
Additionally, during 2012 and 20
11, Huntington purchased additio
nal federal agencies, mortgage-b
acked securities and municipal 
securities, which were classified directly
 into the held-to-maturity portfolio. 
 
Listed below are the contractual maturities (under 1 year, 1-5 year
s, 6-10 years, and over 10 years) of held-to-maturity securi
ties 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011:  
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
Amortized 
Fair
 
Amortized 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Cost 
Value 
Cos
t
 
Fair Value 
 
Federal agencies: mortgage-backed securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 
 ---
$
 ---
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 24,901 
 24,739 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 1,624,483 
 1,672,702 
 
 640,551 
 660,186 
 
Total Federal agencies: mo
rtgage-backed securities 
 1,649,384 
 1,697,441 
640,551 
660,186 
 
Other agencies: 
 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
6-10 years 
 
 15,108 
 15,338 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
Over 10 years 
 
 69,399 
 71,341 
 
 ---
 ---
 
Total other agencies 
 
 84,507 
 86,679 
---
---
Total U.S. Government backed agencies 
 
 1,733,891 
 1,784,120 
 640,551 
 660,186 
Municipal securities: 
 
 
 
Under 1 year 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
1-5 years 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
6-10 years 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
Over 10 years 
 
 9,985 
 9,985 
 
 ---
 ---
Total municipal securities 
 
 9,985 
 9,985 
 ---
 ---
Total held-to-maturity securities 
$
1,743,876 
$
1,794,105 
$
640,551 
$
660,186 
 
 
 
146 
 
The following table prov
ides amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value by investment category at 
December 31, 2012 and 2011: 
 
 
 
 
 
Unrealized
 
 
 
Amortized 
Gross 
Gross 
Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Cost
Gains 
Losses 
Value 
December 31, 2012 
    
Federal Agencies:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
$
 1,649,384 
 
$
 48,219 
 
$ 
 (162)
 
$
 1,697,441 
 
Other agencies 
 
 84,507 
 
 
 2,172 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 86,679 
Total U.S. Government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
backed securities 
 
 1,733,891 
 
 
 50,391 
 
 
 (162)
 
 
 1,784,120 
Municipal securities 
 
 9,985 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 9,985 
Total held-to-maturity securities 
$
 1,743,876 
$
 50,391 
$
 (162)
$
 1,794,105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unrealized
 
 
 
Amortized 
Gross 
Gross 
Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Cost
Gains 
Losses 
Value 
December 31, 2011 
    
Federal Agencies:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
$
 640,551 
 
$
 19,652 
 
$ 
 (17)
 
$
 660,186 
 
Other agencies 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
Total U.S. Government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
backed securities 
 
 640,551 
 
 
 19,652 
 
 
 (17)
 
 
 660,186 
Municipal securities 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
Total held-to-maturity securities 
$
 640,551 
$
 19,652 
$
 (17)
$
 660,186 
 
Security Impairment 
 
Huntington evaluates the held-to-maturity 
securities portfolio on a quarterly basis for 
impairment.  Impairment would exist whe
n 
the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis at the balance sheet 
date.  Under 
these circumstances, any impairment would be recognized in earnings. As of December 31, 2012, Management has evaluated held-to-
maturity securities with unrealized losses for 
impairment and concluded no OTTI is required. 
 
6.  LOAN SALES AND SECURITIZATIONS 
 
 
Residential Mortgage Portfolio 
 
The following table summarizes 
activity relating to residential mortgage loans 
sold with servicing retained for the years ended
 
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
 
2010 
Residential mortgage loans so
ld with servicing retained 
$
 3,954,762 
$
 3,078,475 
 
$ 
 3,943,830 
Pretax gains resulting from above loan sales  (1) 
 
 128,408 
 
 77,591 
 
 
 106,495 
(1)
Recorded in mortgage banking income. 

A MSR is established only when the servicing is contractually 
separated from the underlying 
mortgage loans by sale or 
securitization of the loans w
ith servicing rights retained.  At
 initial recognition, the MSR asset is established at its fair v
alue using 
assumptions consistent with assumptions used to estimate 
the fair value of existing MSR
s.  At the time of initial capitalizatio
n, MSRs 
are recorded using either the fair value method or the amortiza
tion method.  The election of the 
fair value method or amortizat
ion 
method is made at the time each servicing class is established.  An
y increase or decrease in the fair value of MSRs carried und
er the 
fair value method, as well as amortization or impairment of MSRs
 recorded using the amortization method, during the period is 
recorded as an increase or decrease in mortgage banking income, wh
ich is reflected in noninterest
 income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income.   
 
  
147 
 
The following tables summarize the changes in MSRs recorded usin
g either the fair value method or the amortization method for 
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011: 

Fair Value Method

 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
Fair value, beginning of year 
$
 
 65,001
$
 125,679 
Change in fair value during the period due to: 
 
 
Time decay (1) 
 
 (2,881)
 (4,966)
 
Payoffs (2) 
 
 (14,389)
 (19,464)
 
Changes in valuation in
puts or assumptions (3) 
 
 (12,529)
 (36,248)
Fair value, end of year 
$
 
 35,202
$
 65,001 
Weighted-average life (years) 
 
 3.2
 3.2 
(1) 
Represents decrease in value due to passage of time, including th
e impact from both regularly scheduled loan principal payments
 an
d
partial loan paydowns. 
(2) 
Represents decrease in value associated with loans that paid off during the period. 
(3) 
Represents change in value 
resulting primarily from market-driven changes in
 interest rates and prepayment spreads. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortization Method
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
Carrying value, beginning of year 
$
 
 72,434
$
 70,516 
N
ew servicing assets create
d
 
 
 36,123
 32,505 
Impairment charge 
 
 (4,374)
 (17,649)
Amortization and other 
 
 (18,638)
 (12,938)
Carrying value, end of year 
$
 
 85,545
$
 72,434 
Fair value, end of year 
$
 
 85,612
$
 72,586 
Weighted-average life (years) 
 
 3.3
 3.4 
 
MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily obse
rvable prices.  While sales of MSRs occur, the precise terms and 
conditions are typically not readily available
.  Therefore, the fair value of MSRs is estimated using a discounted future cash 
flow 
model.  The model considers portfolio characteristics, contractu
ally specified servicing fees and assumptions related to prepay
ments, 
delinquency rates, late charges, other ancilla
ry revenues, costs to service, and other 
economic factors.  Changes in the assump
tions 
used may have a significant impact on the valuation of MSRs.    
 
MSR values are very sensitive to movements in interest rates as 
expected future net servicing income depends on the projected 
outstanding principal balances of the underly
ing loans, which can be greatly impacted by
 the level of prepayments.  Huntington 
hedges the value of certain MSRs against changes in value attributable to changes in interest rates using a combination of deri
vative 
instruments and trading securities.   
 
For MSRs under the fair value method, a summary of key assumpti
ons and the sensitivity of the MS
R value to changes in these 
assumptions at December 31, 2012, and 2011 follows: 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decline in fair value due to
 
 
 
 
 
Decline in fair value due to
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Actual 
 
 
change 
 
 
change 
 
Actual 
 
 
change 
 
 
change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
 
 19.52
%
$
 (2,608)
$
 (5,051)
 20.11 
% 
 
$ 
 (4,720)
 
$
 (9,321)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates 
 
 1,288
bps
 (1,290)
 (2,580)
 650 
bps 
 
 
 (1,511)
 
 
 (3,023)
 
 
 
148 
 
For MSRs under the amortization method, a summary of key assump
tions and the sensitivity of 
the MSR value to changes in 
these assumptions at December 31, 2012 and 2011 follows: 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decline in fair value due to
 
 
 
 
 
Decline in fair value due to
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Actual 
 
 
change 
 
 
change 
 
Actual 
 
 
change 
 
 
change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
 
 15.45
%
$
 (4,936)
$
 (9,451)
 15.92 
% 
 
$ 
 (3,679)
 
$
 (7,160)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates 
 
 940
bps
 (3,060)
 (6,119)
 953 
bps 
 
 
 (2,605)
 
 
 (5,211)
 
Total servicing fees included in mortgage banking income amounted to $46.2 million, $49.1 million, and $48.1 million in 2012, 
2011, and 2010, respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of re
sidential mortgage loans servi
ced for third parties was $15.6 
billion, 
$15.9 billion, and $15.9 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  
 
Automobile Portfolio 
In 2012, Huntington transferred automobile
 loans totaling $2.3 b
illion to trusts in two separate securitization transactions an
d 
received a total of $2.4 billion of net proceeds.  Both securitizations qualified for sale accounting.  An additional $0.2 bill
ion of 
automobile loans were also sold
, but not securitized, in 2012.  As a result of th
ese transactions, Huntington recognized total 
gains of 
$42.3 million which is reflected in noninter
est income on the Consolid
ated Statements of Income a
nd recorded a total servicing 
asset 
of $38.0 million which is reflected in accrued income and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
 
Huntington has retained servicing responsibilities on sold automobile loans and receives annual servicing fees and other ancill
ary 
fees on the outstanding loan balances.  
Automobile loan servicing righ
ts are accounted for using 
the amortization method.  A se
rvicing 
asset is established at fair value at the time of the sale using a di
scounted future cash flow m
odel.  The model considers assu
mptions 
related to actual servicing income, adequate 
compensation for servicing, 
and other ancillary fees. Th
e servicing asset is then 
amortized 
against servicing income.  Impair
ment, if any, is recognized when carrying value exceeds the fair value as determined by calcul
ating 
the present value of expected net future cash flows.  The primary risk characteristic for measuring servicing assets is payoff 
rates of 
the underlying loan pools.  Valuation calcul
ations rely on the predicted payoff assumptio
n and, if actual payoff is quicker tha
n 
expected, then future value would be impaired.  
 
Changes in the carrying value of 
automobile loan servicing 
rights for the years ended December
 31, 2012 and 2011, and the fair 
value at the end of each period were as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
Carrying value, beginning of year 
$
 13,377 
$
 97 
N
ew servicing assets created 
 
 38,043 
 16,039 
Impairment charge 
 
 (75)
 ---
Amortization and other 
 
 (15,739)
 (2,759)
Carrying value, end of year 
$
 35,606 
$
 13,377 
Fair value, end of year
 
$
 36,470 
$
 13,428 
Weighted-average life (years) 
 
 4.3 
 4.7 
 
A summary of key assumptions and the sensitiv
ity of the automobile loan se
rvicing rights value to changes in these assumptions 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011 follows: 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Decline in fair value due to
 
 
 
 
 
Decline in fair value due to
 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
 
 
 
10% 
 
 
20% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
 
 
 
adverse 
 
 
adverse 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Actual 
 
 
change 
 
 
change 
 
Actual 
 
 
change 
 
 
change 
Constant prepayment rate 
(annualized)
 
 13.80 
%
$
 (880)
$
 (1,771)
 15.60 
% 
 
$ 
 (362)
 
$
 (708)
Spread over forward interest rate swap rates 
 
 500 
bps
 (18)
 (36)
N
A
 
 
 
NA
 
 
NA
 
149 
 
Servicing income, net of amortization of capitalized servicing a
ssets, amounted to $8.7 million, $2.0 million, and $2.5 million
 for 
the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  The unpaid principal balance of automobile loans serviced for
 
third parties was $2.5 billion, $0.9 billion, and $0.1 billion at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
 
7.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
Business segments are based on segment leadership structur
e, which reflects how segment performance is monitored and 
assessed.  No segments were significantly changed and 
no reallocation of good
will occurred in 
either 2012 or 2011. 
 
A rollforward of goodwill by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, is presented in the table below: 
 
 
 
 
Retail & 
Regional 
& 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business  
Commercial 
 
 
 
 
Treasury/
Huntington 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Banking
Banking 
AFCRE 
WGH 
 
 
Other 
Consolidated
Balance, January 1, 2011 
$ 
 286,824 
 
$
 16,169 
 
$
 ---
 
$
 98,951 
 
$ 
 42,324 
 
$
 444,268 
 
Adjustments / Reallocation of goodwill 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
Balance, December 31, 2011 
 
 286,824 
 
 
 16,169 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 98,951 
 
 
 42,324 
 
 
 444,268 
 
Adjustments / Reallocation of goodwill 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Balance, December 31, 2012 
$
 286,824 
$
 16,169 
$
 ---
$
 98,951 
$
 42,324 
$
 444,268 
 
Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1st each year or whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be 
recoverable.  No impairment wa
s recorded in either 2012 or
 
2011.  
 
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Huntington™s other intangible assets consisted of the following: 
 
 
 
 
Gross
 
 
Net 
 
 
Carrying
 
Accumulated 
Carrying 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Amount
Amortization 
Value 
 
December 31, 2012
 
Core deposit intangible
 
$
 380,249 
(1) 
$
 (302,003)
$
 78,246 
Customer relationship 
 
 
 104,574 
 (50,925)
 53,649 
Other
 
 
 25,164 
 (24,902)
 262 
Total other intangible assets
$
 509,987 
$
 (377,830)
$
 132,157 
December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Core deposit intangible
 
$
 376,846 
 
$
 (263,410)
 
$
 113,436 
 
Customer relationship 
 
 
 104,574 
 
 
 (43,052)
 
 
 61,522 
 
Other
 
 
 25,164 
 
 
 (24,820)
 
 
 344 
Total other intangible assets 
$
 506,584 
 
$
 (331,282)
 
$
 175,302 
 
 
 
(1)
Includes $3,403 thousand 
related to the FDIC-assisted acquisition 
of Fidelity Bank on March 30, 2012.
 
 
          The estimated amortization expense of othe
r intangible assets for the next five years is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Amortization
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Expense 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
$
 41,083 
2014 
 
 
 36,368 
2015 
 
 
 20,207 
2016 
 
 
 6,993 
2017 
 
 
 6,511 
 
150 
 
8.  PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
 
 
Premises and equipment were comprised of the following in December 31, 2012 and 2011:  
 
 
 
At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011 
 Land and land improvements 
$ 
 127,280 
$
 123,312
 Buildings 
 
 393,674 
 
 375,603
 Leasehold improvements 
 
 177,395 
 
 218,957
 Equipment 
 
 690,561 
 
 635,175
Total premises and equipment 
 
 1,388,910 
 
 1,353,047
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 
 (771,653)
 
 (788,618)
Net premises and equipment
 
$
 617,257 
$
 564,429
 
 
 
 
 
Depreciation and amortization charged to expense and rental income credited to net occupancy expense for the three years 
ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 were:  
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
2010  
Total depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment 
$
 76,170 
$
 70,413 
 
$
 64,934 
Rental income credited to occupancy expense 
 
 11,519 
 10,878 
 
 
 10,108 
 
9.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 
 
 
Short-term borrowings at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were comprised of the following:  
 
 
 
At December 31,  
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011 
Federal funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
$
 
 575,899 
$
 1,434,310 
 
Other borrowings 
 
 13,915 
 6,782 
 
Total short-term borrowings
 
$
 589,814 
$
 1,441,092 
 
 
Other borrowings consist of borrowings from the Treasury and other notes payable. 
 
For each of the three years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, weighted average interest rate at year-end, the maximum 
balance for the year, the average balance for the year, and weighted average interest rate for the year by category of short-te
rm 
borrowings was as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
2011
 
 
2010 
 
Weighted average interest rate at year-end 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
 
 0.15 
%
 0.17
%
 
 0.19 
%
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
 1.98 
 2.74
 
 
 0.53 
 
Maximum amount outstanding at month-end during the year
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
$
1,590,082 
$
2,430,992
$
2,084,431 
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
26,071 
86,262
107,716 
Average amount outstanding during the year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
$
1,293,348 
$
2,009,039
$
1,375,154 
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
16,983 
46,245
70,220 
Weighted average interest rate during the year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Funds purchased and securities so
ld under agreements to repurchase 
 
 0.14 
%
 0.16
%
 
 0.19 
%
 
Other short-term borrowings 
 
 1.36 
 0.59
 
 
 0.43 
 
 
151 
 
10.  FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES 
 
 
Huntington™s advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank had weighted average interest rates of 0.18% and 0.19% at December 
31, 2012 and 2011, resp
ectively. These advances, which predominantly had va
riable interest rates, were collateralized by qualif
ying 
real estate loans. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, Huntington
™s maximum borrowing capacity 
was $4.0 billion and $3.5 billion,
 
respectively.  The advances outstanding at December 31, 2012 of $1.0 billion mature as follows: $1.0 billion in 2013; and less 
than 
$0.1 billion in 2017
 and thereafter.  
 
11.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT 
 
Huntington™s other long-term debt consisted of the following:  
 
 
 
 
At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
2012 
 
2011 
5.04% The Huntington National Bank
 medium-term notes due through 2018 
$ 
 41,557 
$
 641,443 
0.88% Securitization trust notes payable due through 2018 (1) 
 2,086 
 333,644 
5.54% Securitization trust note payable due 2014  
 ---
 123,039 
5.64% Securitization trust note payable due 2013  
 ---
 18,230 
2.56% Class B preferred securities 
of subsidiary, no maturity (2) 
 65,000 
 65,000 
7.88% Class C preferred securities of subsidiary, no maturity 
 50,000 
 50,000 
Other 
 141 
 161 
Total other long-term debt
 
$ 
 158,784 
$
 1,231,517 
(1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2012, based on one month LIBOR + 0.67 or 0.88%. 
(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2012, based on one month LIBOR + 2.35 or 2.56%. 
 
Amounts above are net of unamortized discount
s and adjustments related to hedging with
 derivative financial instruments. The 
derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used 
to hedge the fair values of cer
tain fixed-rate debt by conver
ting the 
debt to a variable rate. See Note 20 for more 
information regarding such financial instruments. 
 
In 2010, approximately $92.1 million of municipal
 securities, $86.0 million in Huntingt
on Preferred Capital, Inc. (Real Estate 
Investment Trust) Class E Preferred Stock and cash of $6.1 milli
on were transferred to Tower Hill Securities, Inc., an unconsol
idated 
entity, in exchange for 
$184.1 million of Common and Preferred Stock of Tower 
Hill Securities, Inc. The municipal securities an
d the 
REIT Shares will be used to satisfy $65.0 million of mandatorily
 redeemable securities issued by Tower Hill Securities, Inc. an
d are 
not available to satisfy the general debts a
nd obligations of Huntington 
or any consolidated affiliates
. The transfer did not m
eet the 
sale requirement of ASC 860 and therefore ha
s been reflected as a secure
d financing on the Consolidated Financial Statements of
 
Huntington. 
 
Other long-term debt maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Other long-term
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
debt maturities
 
2013 
 
$
 141 
 
 
2014 
 
 
 ---
 
 
2015 
 
 
 ---
 
 
2016 
 
 
 ---
 
 
2017 
 
 
 ---
 
 
and thereafte
r
 
 
 152,086 
 
 
These maturities are based upon the par values of the long-term debt. 
 
The terms of the other long-term debt ob
ligations contain various restrictive covena
nts including limitations on the acquisitio
n of 
additional debt in excess of specified levels, dividend payments, and the disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2012,
 
Huntington was in compliance with all such covenants. 
 
152 
 
12.  SUBORDINATED NOTES 
 
 
At December 31, Huntington™s subordinated notes consisted of the following:   
 
 
 
At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
 
2012 
 
2011 
Parent company:
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.21% subordinated notes due 2013 
$
 
 49,892 
$
 49,482 
7.00% subordinated notes due 2020 
 
 350,656 
 
 344,347 
1.01% junior subordinated debentures due 2027 (1) 
 
 111,816 
 
 111,816 
0.93% junior subordinated debentures due 2028 (2) 
 
 54,593 
 
 54,593 
8.54% junior subordinated debentures due 2029 
 
 ---
 
 23,192 
8.56% junior subordinated debentures due 2030 
 
 ---
 
 64,194 
3.34% junior subordinated debentures due 2033 
 
 ---
 
 30,929 
3.65% junior subordinated debentures due 2033 
 
 ---
 
 6,186 
1.71% junior subordinated debentures due 2036 (3) 
 
 72,165 
 
 72,165 
1.76% junior subordinated debentures due 2036 (3) 
 
 74,320 
 
 77,320 
6.69% junior subordinated debentures due 2067 
 
 ---
 
 114,101 
The Huntington National Bank:
 
 
 
 
 
6.21% subordinated notes due 2012 
 
 ---
 
 64,959 
5.00% subordinated notes due 2014  
 
 130,186 
 
 134,225 
5.59% subordinated notes due 2016 
 
 110,321 
 
 111,953 
6.67% subordinated notes due 2018  
 
 150,219 
 
 151,444 
5.45% subordinated notes due 2019 
 
 92,923 
 
 92,462 
Total subordinated notes
 
$
 
 1,197,091 
$
 1,503,368 
(1) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2012, based on three month LIBOR + 0.70%. 
(2) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2012, based on three month LIBOR + 0.625%. 
(3) Variable effective rate at December 31, 2012, based on three month LIBOR + 1.40%. 
 
Amounts above are net of unamortized discount
s and adjustments related to hedging with
 derivative financial instruments. The 
derivative instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used 
to match the funding rates on ce
rtain assets to hedge the int
erest rate 
values of certain fixed-rate debt by conve
rting the debt to a variable rate. See Note
 20 for more information regarding such fi
nancial 
instruments.  All principal is due upon maturity
 of the note as described in the table above. 
 
During 2012 and 2011, Huntington retired $230.3 million and $36.1 million, respectively of junior subordinated debentures, 
which resulted in net pre-tax g
ains of $0.8 million and $9.7 mil
lion, respectively. These transactions have been recorded as ga
ins on 
early extinguishment of debt, a reductio
n of noninterest expense, in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
153 
 
13.  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
The components of Huntington™s OCI in the three years ended December 31, were as follows: 
 
 
2012
Tax (expense) 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pretax
 
 
Benefit 
After-tax 
N
oncredi
t
-related impairment recoveries (losses) on debt securities not expected to be sold
$
 19,215 
 
$
 (6,725)
 
$
 12,490 
Unrealized holding gains (losses)
 on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the period
 
 
 90,318 
 
 
 (32,137)
 
 
 58,181 
Less: Reclassification adjustment for 
net gains included in net income
 
 
 (4,769)
 
 
 1,669 
 
 
 (3,100)
Net change in unrealized holding gains (lo
sses) on available-for-sale debt securities 
 
 104,764 
 (37,193)
 67,571 
Net change in unrealized holding gains 
(losses) on available-for-sale equity securities 
 344 
 (120)
 224 
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives us
ed in cash flow hedging relationships arising 
during the period
 
 (5,476)
 
 
 1,907 
 
 
 (3,569)
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losse
s (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
 14,992 
 
 
 (5,237)
 
 
 9,755 
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships
 
 9,516 
 (3,330)
 6,186 
N
et actuarial gains (losses) arising during the yea
r
 
 (105,527)
 
 
 36,934 
 
 
 (68,593)
Amortization of net actuarial loss and 
prior service cost included in income
 
 
 27,013 
 
 
 (9,455)
 
 
 17,558 
Net change in pension and post-retirement obligations
 
 (78,514)
 27,479 
 (51,035)
Total other comprehensive (loss) income 
$
 36,110 
$
 (13,164)
$
 22,946 
2011
Tax (expense) 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pretax
 
 
Benefit 
After-tax 
N
oncredi
t
-related impairment (losses) recoveries on
 debt securities not expected to be sold
 
11,537 
 
(4,038)
 
7,499 
Unrealized holding gains (losses)
 on available-for-sale debt securities arising during the period
 
95,586 
 
(33,455)
 
62,131 
Less: Reclassification adjustment for 
net gains included in net income
 
 
3,681 
 
 
(1,288)
 
 
2,393 
Net change in unrealized holding gains (lo
sses) on available-for-sale debt securities 
 
110,804
(38,781)
72,023
Net change in unrealized holding gains 
(losses) on available-for-sale equity securities 
612
(215)
397
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives us
ed in cash flow hedging relationships arising 
during the period
 
 4,875 
 
 
 (1,703)
 
 
 3,172 
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losse
s (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
 3,107 
 
 
 (1,091)
 
 
 2,016 
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships
 
 7,982 
 (2,794)
 5,188 
N
et actuarial gains (losses) arising during the yea
r
 
 (104,146)
 
 
 36,451 
 
 
 (67,695)
Amortization of net actuarial loss and 
prior service cost included in income
 
 
 21,261 
 
 
 (7,441)
 
 
 13,820 
Net change in pension and post-retirement obligations
 
 (82,885)
 29,010 
 (53,875)
Total other comprehensive income (loss) 
$
36,513
$
(12,780)
$
23,733
  
154 
 
2010
Tax (expense) 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pretax
 
 
Benefit 
After-tax 
N
oncredi
t
-related impairment losses on debt 
securities not expected to be sold
 
23,569 
 
(8,249)
 
15,320 
Unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-s
ale debt securities arising during the period
 
(14,498)
 
5,019 
 
(9,479)
Less: Reclassification adjustment for 
net gains included in net income
 
 
274 
 
 
(96)
 
 
178 
Net change in unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-sale debt securities 
 
9,345
(3,326)
6,019
Net change in unrealized holding
 (losses) gains on avai
lable-for-sale equity securities 
(162)
57
(105)
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives us
ed in cash flow hedging relationships arising 
during the period
 
 80,069 
 
 
 (28,126)
 
 
 51,943 
Less: Reclassification adjustment for net losse
s (gains) losses included in net income
 
 
 (115,692)
 
 
 40,594 
 
 
 (75,098)
Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives used in cash flow hedging 
relationships
 
 (35,623)
 12,468 
 (23,155)
N
et actuarial gains (losses) arising during the yea
r
 
 (45,804)
 
 
 16,031 
 
 
 (29,773)
Amortization of net actuarial loss and 
prior service cost included in income
 
 
 16,541 
 
 
 (5,789)
 
 
 10,752 
Net change in pension and post-retirement obligations
 
 (29,263)
 10,242 
 (19,021)
Total other comprehensive (loss) income
$
(55,703)
$
19,441
$
(36,262)
 
Activity in accumulated OCI for the three years ended December 31, were as follows: 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Unrealized 
g
ains and 
(losses) on 
debt
securities (1)
Unrealized 
g
ains and 
(losses) on 
equit
y
securities
Unrealized 
gains and 
(losses) on 
cash flow 
hedging 
derivatives 
Unrealized 
gains
(losses) for 
pension and 
other post-
retirement 
obligations
Total
Balance, January 1, 2010
$
 (103,060)
 
$
 (322)
 
$
 58,865 
 
$ 
 (112,468)
$
 (156,985)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting  principle for 
consolidation of variable interest entities, net of tax 
 
 (4,249)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 (4,249)
Balance, January 1, 2010, as adjusted 
 
 (107,309)
 
 
 (322)
 
 
 58,865 
 
 
 (112,468)
 
 
 (161,234)
Period change 
 
 6,019 
 
 
 (105)
 
 
 (23,155)
 
 
 (19,021)
 
 
 (36,262)
Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 (101,290)
 (427)
 35,710 
 (131,489)
 (197,496)
Period change
 
 72,023 
 
 397 
 
 
 5,188 
 
 
 (53,875)
 
 
 23,733 
Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 (29,267)
 (30)
 40,898 
 (185,364)
 (173,763)
Period change
 
 67,571 
 
 224 
 
 
 6,186 
 
 
 (51,035)
 
 
 22,946 
Balance, December 31, 2012
 
$
 38,304 
$
 194 
$
 47,084 
$
 (236,399)
$
 (150,817)
(1) Amount at December 31, 2012 includes $0.2 million of net unrealized gains on securities transferred from the available-for-
sale 
securities portfolio to the held-to-matu
rity securities portfolio. The net unrealized 
gains will be recognized in earnings over
 the 
remaining life of the security using the effective interest method.
 
 14.  SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY 
 
Preferred Stock issued and outstanding 
In 2008, Huntington issued 56
9,000 shares of 8.50% Series A 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual 
Convertible Preferred Stock (Series A 
Preferred Stock) with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per shar
e.  Each share of the Series A Preferred Stock is non-voting a
nd may 
be converted at any time, at the option of 
the holder, into 83.668 shares of common stock of Huntington, which represents an 
approximate initial conversion price of $11.95 per share of common stock. On or after April 15, 2013, at the option of Huntingt
on, the 
Series A Preferred Stock will be subject to mandatory conversio
n into Huntington's common stoc
k at the prevailing conversion ra
te, if 
the closing price of Huntington's common stock exceeds 130% of the 
conversion price for 20 trading days during any 30 consecuti
ve 
trading day period.  
 
 
155 
 
In 2011, Huntington issued $35.5 million par value Floating Ra
te Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a 
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the Series B Preferred Stock) and, in certain cases, an additional amount of cash 
consideration, in exchange for $35.5 mill
ion of (1) Huntington Capital I Floating Rate 
Capital Securities, (2) Huntington Capit
al II 
Floating Rate Capital Securities, (3) Sky Fi
nancial Capital Trust III Floating Rate Capital Securities and (4) Sky Financial Ca
pital 
Trust IV Floating Rate Capital Securities.  
As part of the exchange offer, Huntington issued depositary sh
ares. Each depositary share represents a 1/40th ownership interes
t 
in a share of the Series B Preferred Stock. Each holder of a de
positary share will be entitled, in
 proportion to the applicable
 fraction of 
a share of Series B Preferred Stock and all the related rights and 
preferences. Huntington will pay dividends on the Series B P
referred 
Stock at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus a spre
ad of 2.70%.  The preferred stock was recorded at the par amount
 of 
$35.5 million, with the difference between par amount of the shares and their fair value of $23.8 million recorded as a discoun
t.  
  
Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Capital and Warrant to Repurchase Common Stock 
In 2008, Huntington received $1.4 billion of equity capital by issuing to the Treasury 1.4 million shares of TARP Capital and a
 
ten-year warrant to purchase up to 23.6 million shares of Hun
tington™s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at an exercise 
price 
of $8.90 per share.  As approved by the 
Federal Reserve Board, the Trea
sury, and our other banking 
regulators, on December 22, 
2010, Huntington repurchased all 1.4 milli
on shares of our TARP Cap
ital held by the Treasury totali
ng $1.4 billion. Huntington 
used 
the net proceeds from the issuance of common stock and subordinated 
debt, as well as other funds, to redeem the TARP Capital. O
n 
January 19, 2011, Huntington repurc
hased the warrant origin
ally issued to the Treasury for a purchase price of $49.1 million. 
 
Share Repurchase Program 
 
Huntington's board of directors authorized a share repurchase 
program consistent with Huntin
gton™s capital plan that was 
submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 
2012.  During 2012, 
Huntington repurchased a total of 
23.3 million shares of common
 
stock, at a weighted average share price 
of $6.36. Huntington did not repurchase any 
shares of common stock during 2011.   
 
15.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
 
 
Basic earnings per share is the amount of earnings (adjusted for di
vidends declared on preferred st
ock) available to each share
 of 
common stock outstanding during the reportin
g period. Diluted earnings per share is the amount of earnings available to each sh
are of 
common stock outstanding during 
the reporting period adjusted
 to include the effect of poten
tially dilutive common shares.  
Potentially dilutive common shares in
clude incremental shares issued
 for stock options, restricted stock units and awards, dist
ributions 
from deferred compensation plans, and the conversion of the 
Company™s conver
tible preferred stock (See Note 14).  Potentially 
dilutive common shares are excluded from the computation of dilute
d earnings per share in periods in which the effect would be 
antidilutive.  For 
diluted earnings per share, net inco
me available to common shares can be affected by the conversion of the 
Company™s convertible prefe
rred stock.  Where the effect of this conversion 
would be dilutive, net income available to common 
shareholders is adjusted by the associated preferred dividends and deemed dividend.  
 
 
 
156 
 
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for each of the three years ended December 31 was as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Year ended December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
2012 
2011  
2010  
Basic earnings per common share: 
 
N
et income
$
 641,022 
$
 542,613 
 
$
 312,347 
Preferred stock dividends, deemed dividends and accretion of discount 
 
 (31,989)
 (30,813)
 
 
 (172,032)
 
N
et income available to common shareholders 
$
 609,033 
$
 511,800 
 
$
 140,315 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 
 
 857,962 
 863,691 
 
 
 726,934 
Basic earnings per common share
 
$
 0.71 
$
 0.59 
 
$
 0.19 
Diluted earnings per common share
 
 
 
 
N
et income available to common shareholders 
$
 609,033 
$
 511,800 
 
$
 140,315 
Effect of assumed preferred stock conversion 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
N
et income applicable to d
iluted earnings per share 
$
 609,033 
$
 511,800 
 
$
 140,315 
Average common shares issued and outstanding 
 
 857,962 
 863,691 
 
 
 726,934 
Dilutive potential common shares: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stock options and restricted stock units and awards 
 
 4,202 
 2,916 
 
 
 1,722 
 
Shares held in deferred compensation plans 
 
 1,238 
 1,017 
 
 
 876 
 
Conversion of preferred stock 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
 ---
Dilutive potential common shares: 
 
 5,440 
 3,933 
 
 
 2,598 
 
Total diluted average common shares issued and outstanding 
 
 863,402 
 867,624 
 
 
 729,532 
Diluted earnings per common share
 
$
 0.71 
$
 0.59 
 
$
 0.19 
 
Approximately 24.4 million, 23.6 million, an
d 18.5 million options to purchase shares 
of common stock outstanding at the end of
 
2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would
 be 
antidilutive. 
 
16.  SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
 
 
Huntington sponsors nonqualified and incen
tive share based compensation plans. These plans provide for the granting of stock 
options and other awards to officers, direct
ors, and other employees. Compensation cost
s are included in personnel costs on the
 
Consolidated Statements of Income. Stock options are granted at 
the closing market price on th
e date of the grant. Options gran
ted 
typically vest ratably over three years or 
when other conditions are met.  Stock optio
ns, which represented a significant porti
on of our 
grant values, have no intrinsic 
value until the stock price increases.  Options 
granted prior to May 2004 have a term of ten ye
ars. All 
options granted after May 2004 have a term of seven years.  
 
During the 2012 second quar
ter, shareholders approved the Huntington Bancsh
ares Incorporated 2012 
Long-Term Incen
tive Plan 
(the Plan) which author
ized 51 million shares for future gr
ants. The Plan is the on
ly active plan under wh
ich Huntington is cur
rently 
granting share based options and awards.  At December 31, 2012, 39.4 million shares from the Plan were available for future gra
nts.  
Huntington issues shares to fulfill stoc
k option exercises and restricted stock unit 
and award vesting from available authorize
d 
common shares. At December 31, 2012, the Company believes there are adequate authorized common shares to satisfy anticipated 
stock option exercises and restricted stock unit and award vesting in 2013. 
 
Huntington uses the Black-Scholes option pri
cing model to value share-based compensation expense. Forfeitures are estimated at 
the date of grant based on historical rates, and updated as necessary, and reduce the compensation expense recognized. The risk
-free 
interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in eff
ect at the date of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on
 the 
dividend rate and stock price at the date of the grant.  E
xpected volatility is based on the estimated volatility of Huntington
™s stock 
over the expected term of the option. 
 
 
 
157 
 
The following table illu
strates the weighted average assump
tions used in the option-pricing m
odel for options granted in the th
ree 
years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: 
 
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
 
2010  
 
Assumptions
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-free interest rate 
 
1.10 
%
1.95 
% 
 
 
2.30 
%
 
Expected dividend yield 
 
2.38 
2.63 
 
 
 
0.68 
 
Expected volatility of Huntington's common stock 
 
34.9 
30.0 
 
 
 
38.5 
 
Expected option term (years) 
 
6.0 
 
 
6.0 
 
 
 
6.0 
 
Weighted-average grant date fair value per share
$
1.78 
 
$
1.40 
 
 
$
2.20 
 
 
The following table illustrates total share-based compensation expense and related tax benefit for the three years ended Decemb
er 
31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
 
 
 
 
2010 
 
 
Share-based compensation expense 
$
 27,873 
$
 19,666 
 
 
$
 15,453 
 
Tax benefit 
 
 9,298 
 6,708 
 
 
 
 5,408 
 
 
Huntington™s stock option activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2012, was as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
Average
 
 
 
 
Average
 
 
Remaining
Aggregate
 
 
 
Exercise
 
 
Contractual
Intrinsic
(amounts in thousands, except years and per share amounts)
 
Options
Price
 
 
Life 
(Years)
Value
Outstanding at January 1, 2012
 
 27,205 
$
 11.47 
 
 
Granted 
 
 5,920 
 
 6.71 
 
 
 
 
Exercised 
 
 (520)
 
 4.33 
 
 
 
 
Forfeited/expired 
 
 (5,837)
 
 19.21 
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at December 31, 2012
 26,768 
$
 8.87 
 
 4.5 
$
 9,449 
Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2012 (1) 
 12,322 
$
 6.26 
 
 5.8 
$
 3,388 
Exercisable at December 31, 2012 
 13,037 
$
 11.61 
 
 3.1 
$
 5,749 
(1) The number of op
tions expected to vest includes an estimate of expected forfeitures.
 
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the amount by which the fair value of underlying stock exceeds the ﬁin-the-moneyﬂ 
option exercise price. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 
and 2010, cash received for the exercises of stock options 
was 
$2.3 million, $0.5 million and $0.2 mil
lion, respectively.  The tax benefit realized
 for the tax deductio
ns from option exercis
es totaled 
$0.3 million, $0.1 million and less than $0.1 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  
 
Huntington also grants restricted
 stock, restricted stock units, performance shar
e awards and other stock-based awards.  Restri
cted 
stock units and awards are issued at no cost 
to the recipient, and can be settled only
 in shares at the end of the vesting peri
od.  
Restricted stock awards provide the holder 
with full voting rights and cash dividends 
during the vesting period.  Restricted st
ock units 
do not provide the holder with voting right
s or cash dividends during the vesting peri
od, but do accrue a dividend equivalent t
hat is 
paid upon vesting, and are subject to certain service restrictions. 
 Performance share aw
ards are payable contingent upon Hunti
ngton 
achieving certain predefined performance objectives over the three-year measurement period.  The fair value of these awards is 
the 
closing market price of Huntington™s common stock on the date of award. 
 
 
 
158 
 
The following table summarizes th
e status of Huntington's rest
ricted stock units and performance share awards as of December 
31, 2012, and activity for the year ended December 31, 2012: 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
 
 
Average
 
 
 
Average
 
Restricted
Grant Date
Performance
Grant Date
 
Stoc
k
Fair Value
Share
Fair Value
(amounts in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
Units
Per Share
Awards
Per Share
N
onveste
d
 at January 1, 2012 
 7,591 
$
 6.09 
 
 ---
$
 ---
Granted 
 2,994 
 
 6.68 
 
 694 
 
 6.77 
Vested 
 (1,647)
 
 5.53 
 
 ---
 
 ---
Forfeited 
 (454)
 
 6.24 
 
 ---
 
 ---
Nonvested at December 31, 2012
 
 8,484 
$
 6.40 
 694 
$
 6.77 
 
The weighted-average grant date fair value of nonvested shares granted for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 
were $6.69, $6.24, and $6.15, respectively.  The total fair value of awards vested during the years ended December 31, 2012, 20
11, 
and 2010, was $9.1 million, $11.2 million, and $3.0 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2012, the total unrecognized 
compensation cost related to
 nonvested awards was $32.8 million with a weight
ed-average expense recogn
ition period of 2.0 years
. 
 
The following table presents additional information regarding options outstanding as of December 31, 2012: 
 
(amounts in thousands, except years and per share amounts)
 
Options Outstanding
 
 
Exercisable Options 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average
Weighted-
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
 
 
 
Remaining
Average
 
 
 
 
 
Average
Range of 
 
Contractual
Exercise
 
 
Exercise
Exercise Prices 
 
Shares 
Life 
(Years)
Price
 
 
Shares 
Price
$0 to $5.63 
 
 2,968 
 
 
 3.8 
$
 4.54 
 
 
 2,201 
 
$
 4.39 
$5.64 to $6.02 
 
 10,120 
 
 
 5.6 
 6.02 
 
 
 3,373 
 
 6.02 
$6.03 to $15.95 
 
 8,600 
 
 
 5.5 
 6.75 
 
 
 2,383 
 
 6.91 
$15.96 to $24.56 
 
 5,080 
 
 
 1.1 
 20.65 
 
 
 5,080 
 20.65 
Total
 
 26,768 
 4.5 
$
 8.87 
 13,037 
$
 11.61 
159 
 
17.  INCOME TAXES 
 
 
The Company and its subsidiaries file inco
me tax returns in the U.S. federal juri
sdiction and various state, city, and foreign 
jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits have been completed through 2009. The Company has appealed certain proposed adjustment
s 
resulting from the IRS examination 
of the 2006 and 2007 tax retu
rns. In addition, we will a
ppeal certain proposed adjustments 
resulting from the IRS examin
ation of our 2008 and 2009 tax retu
rns. Management believes the tax 
positions taken related to suc
h 
proposed adjustments were correct and suppo
rted by applicable statutes, regulations, 
and judicial authority, and intend to vigo
rously 
defend them. During 2011, Management enter
ed into discussions with th
e Appeals Division of the IRS
 for the 2006 and 2007 tax 
returns. It is possible the ultimate resolution 
of the proposed adjustments, if unfavo
rable, may be material to the results of 
operations 
in the period it occurs. Howeve
r, although no assurance can be given, Management
 believes the resolution of these examinations 
will 
not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse im
pact on our consolidated fi
nancial position. In the 2013 first
 quarter, 
the IRS will begin its examination of our 2010
 and 2011 federal income ta
x returns.  Various state and other jurisdictions rema
in open 
to examination for tax y
ears 2006 and forward. 
 
 
Huntington accounts for uncertainties in income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes. At December 31, 2012, 
Huntington had gross unrecognized
 tax benefits of $6.2 million in income tax liab
ility related to tax pos
itions. Due to the com
plexities 
of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate 
resolution may result in a payment that is
 materially different from the current e
stimate of 
the tax liabilities. However, any ultimate settlement is not expe
cted to be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements a
s a 
whole.  Huntington does not anticipate the 
total amount of gross unrecognized tax benef
its to significantly change within the n
ext 
12 months.   
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits: 
 
 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
 
Unrecognized tax benefits
 at beginning of year 
$ 
 11,896 
$
 49,506
 
Gross increases for tax positions taken during prior years 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior years 
 
 (5,650)
 (37,610)
Unrecognized tax benefits at end of year 
$ 
 6,246 
$
 11,896
 
Any interest and penalties on income tax asse
ssments or income tax refu
nds are recognized in the 
Consolidated Statements of 
Income as a component of provision for income
 taxes. Huntington recognized $0.1 milli
on of interest benefit for the year ended 
December 31, 2012, and $0.1 million, and $2.2 million of interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, 
respectively. Total interest accrued was $2.2 million and $2.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respecti
vely. 
All of the gross unrecognized tax benefits would impact the Company™s effective tax rate if recognized. 
 
The following is a summa
ry of the provision (benefit)
 for income taxes:  
 
 
 
 
Year Ended  December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
2010  
Current tax provision (benefit) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal  
$
 24,006 
$ 
 10,468 
 
$
 40,675 
 
State   
 
 6,966 
 
 (5,040)
 
 
 29,539 
Total current tax provision (benefit) 
 
 30,972 
 
 5,428 
 
 
 70,214 
Deferred tax provision (benefit) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal  
 
 186,396 
 
 158,709 
 
 
 (30,243)
 
State   
 
 (33,273)
 
 484 
 
 
 (7)
Total deferred tax provision (benefit) 
 
 153,123 
 
 159,193 
 
 
 (30,250)
Provision for income taxes 
$
 184,095 
$ 
 164,621 
 
$
 39,964 
 
Tax impact associated with securities transactions included in the above amounts were $1.7 million of tax expense in 2012, and 
tax benefits of $1.3 million in 2011, and $0.1 million in 2010. 
 
 
 
160 
 
The following is a reconcilement 
of provision for income taxes:  
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
2011  
2010  
Provision for income taxes computed at the statutory rate 
$
 288,791 
$
 247,532 
$
 123,310 
Increases (decreases): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tax-exempt interest income 
 
 (15,752)
 
 (9,695)
 
 
 (6,680)
 
Tax-exempt bank owned life insurance income 
 
 (19,151)
 
 (21,169)
 
 
 (20,595)
 
Dividends 
 
 ---
 
 (17,744)
 
 
 ---
 
Asset securitization activities 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 46,160 
 
General business credits 
 
 (49,654)
 
 (31,269)
 
 
 (23,360)
 
State deferred tax asset valuation allowance adjustment, net 
 
 (21,251)
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
Capital loss 
 
 (18,659)
 
 (7,000)
 
 
 (62,681)
 
Loan acquisitions 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 (43,650)
 
Affordable housing investment amortization 
 
 13,621 
 
 5,983 
 
 
 4,344 
 
State income taxes, net 
 
 4,152 
 
 (2,962)
 
 
 19,196 
 
Other 
 
 1,998 
 
 945 
 
 
 3,920 
Provision for income taxes  
$
 184,095 
$
 164,621 
$
 39,964 
 
 
        The significant componen
ts of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, were as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011  
Deferred tax assets: 
 
 
 
 
Allowances for credit losses 
$
 282,175 
$
 348,269 
 
Loss and other carryforwards 
 
 215,232 
 
 217,877 
 
Fair value adjustments 
 
 84,740 
 
 92,569 
 
Accrued expense/prepaid 
 
 39,813 
 
 32,736 
 
Purchase accounting adjustments 
 
 8,383 
 
 10,556 
 
Partnership investments 
 
 7,148 
 
 ---
 
Other 
 
 17,883 
 
 15,661 
Total deferred tax assets 
 
 655,374 
 
 717,668 
Deferred tax liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
Lease financing 
 
 122,395 
 
 65,029 
 
Loan origination costs 
 
 61,189 
 
 51,124 
 
Purchase accounting adjustments 
 
 50,704 
 
 51,754 
 
Operating assets 
 
 35,655 
 
 33,511 
 
Pension and other employee benefits 
 
 33,898 
 
 19,290 
 
Securities adjustments 
 
 30,713 
 
 40,273 
 
Mortgage servicing rights 
 
 30,686 
 
 45,948 
 
Partnership investments 
 
 ---
 
 6,761 
 
Other 
 
 21,447 
 
 15,558 
Total deferred tax liabilities 
 
 386,687 
 
 329,248 
N
et deferred tax asset before valuation allowance 
 
 268,687 
 
 388,420 
Valuation allowance 
 
 (64,812)
 
 (23,594)
N
et deferred tax asse
t
 
$
 203,875 
$
 364,826 
 
At December 31, 2012, Huntington™s net deferred tax asset related to loss and other carryforwards was $215.2 million. This was 
comprised of federal net operating loss carryforwards of $27.0 mi
llion, which will begin expiring in 2023, $86.6 million of sta
te net 
operating loss carryforward, which will begin ex
piring in 2015, an alter
native minimum tax credit ca
rryforward of $50.1 million
, 
which may be carried forward indefinitely, 
a general business credit carryover of $47.7
 million, which will begin expiring in 2
027, a 
capital loss carryforward of $3.0 million, 
which will expire in 2015, and a charitab
le contribution carryforward of $0.8 millio
n, which 
will expire in 2016. A valuation allowance of $3.0 million has been established for the capital loss carryforward because Manag
ement 
believes that it is more likely than not that the realization of 
this asset will not occur. The valuation allowance on this cap
ital loss 
carryforward decreased $20.5 million comp
ared with 2011 from the utilization and 
expiration of capital loss carryforwards.  
 
161 
 
In prior periods, Huntington established a full valuation allowance against state deferred tax assets and state net operating l
oss 
carryforwards based on the uncertainty of forecasted state taxable income expected in applicable jurisdictions in order to util
ize the 
state deferred tax asset and net 
operating loss carryforwards.  Based on current 
analysis of both positive and negative evidenc
e and 
projected forecasted state taxable income, the Company believes that it is more likely than not that a portion of the state def
erred tax 
asset and state net operating loss carryforwards will be realized
. As a result of this analysis, a valuation allowance of $32.7
 was 
adjusted for the portion of the 
deferred tax asset and state net operating loss 
carryforwards the Company expects to realize.  
 
 
A valuation allowance of $64.8 million re
mains for certain state deferred tax assets
, state net operating loss carryforwards, a
nd 
capital loss carryfowards that are not expected to be realized within
 the carryforward periods.  In
 Management™s opinion, the r
esults of 
future operations will generate sufficient 
taxable income to realize the net operating 
loss, alternative minimum tax credit car
ryforward, 
charitable contribution carryforward, and gene
ral business credit carryforward. Conseque
ntly, Huntington determined that a valu
ation 
allowance for these deferred tax assets was not required as of December 31, 2012.  
162 
 
 
18.  BENEFIT PLANS  
 
Huntington sponsors the Plan, a 
non-contributory defined benef
it pension plan covering substa
ntially all employees hired or 
rehired prior to January 1, 2010.  The Plan provides benefits based upon length of service and compensation levels. The funding
 
policy of Huntington is to contribute an an
nual amount that is at least equal to th
e minimum funding requirements but not more 
than 
the amount deductible under the Internal Revenue Code.  Although not required, Huntington made a $75 million contribution to th
e 
Plan in the third quarter of 2012. 
 
In addition, Huntington has an unfunded defined benefit po
st-retirement plan that provides
 certain healthcare and life 
insurance benefits to retired employees who 
have attained the age of 55 and have at 
least 10 years of vesting service under thi
s plan.  
For any employee retiring on or after Janu
ary 1, 1993, post-retirement healthcare benef
its are based upon the employee™s number
 of 
months of service and are limited to the actual cost of coverage. 
Life insurance benefits are a percentage of the employee™s ba
se salary 
at the time of retirement, with a maximum of $50,000 of coverage
.  The employer paid portion 
of the post-retirement health and 
life 
insurance plan was eliminated for employees 
retiring on and after March 1, 2010.  Elig
ible employees retiring on and after Marc
h 1, 
2010, who elect retiree medical coverage, will pay 
the full cost of this coverage.  Hun
tington will not provide any employer pa
id life 
insurance to employees retiring on and after March 1, 2010.  Elig
ible employees will be able to 
convert or port their existing 
life 
insurance at their own expense under the same 
terms that are available to all terminated employees.  
 
The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at December 31, 2012 
and 2011, and the net peri
odic benefit cost for th
e years then ended: 
 
 
 
 
Pension
 
Post-Retirement 
 
 
Benefits
 
Benefits 
 
2012
2011
 
2012
2011
 
Weighted-average assumptions used
 to determine benefit obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discount rate 
3.83 
%
4.57 
% 
 
3.28 
%
4.34
%
 
Rate of compensation increase 
4.50 
4.50 
 
N/A
N
/A
 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discount rate 
4.57 
5.35 
 
 
4.34 
5.00
 
 
Expected return on plan assets 
8.00 
8.00 
 
N/A
N
/A
 
 
Rate of compensation increase 
4.50 
4.50 
 
N/A
N
/A
 
N
/A - Not Applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is an assumption reflecting the average rate of earnings expected on the 
funds invested or to be invested to provi
de for the benefits included in the projec
ted benefit obligation.
 The expected long-te
rm rate of 
return is established at the beginning of the plan year based 
upon historical returns and projec
ted returns on the underlying m
ix of 
invested assets.  
 
 
 
163 
 
The following table reconciles th
e beginning and ending 
balances of the benefit obligation 
of the Plan and the post-retirement 
benefit plan with the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31: 
 
 
 
 
Pension
Post-Retirement 
 
 
Benefits
Benefits 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012
2011
 
2012 
2011
Projected benefit obligation at 
beginning of measurement year 
$
 656,339 
$
 577,770 
 
$ 
 32,851 
$
 34,241 
Changes due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service cost 
 24,869 
 21,650 
 
 
 ---
 ---
 
Interest cost 
 29,215 
 30,073 
 
 
 1,350 
 1,618 
 
Benefits paid 
 (13,719)
 (12,285)
 
 
 (3,850)
 (4,895)
 
Settlements 
 (10,444)
 (10,408)
 
 
 ---
 ---
 
Medicare subsidies 
 ---
 ---
 
 
 740 
 670 
 
Actuarial assumptions and gains and losses 
 97,518 
 49,539 
 
 
 (3,304)
 1,217 
Total changes 
 127,439 
 78,569 
 
 
 (5,064)
 (1,390)
Projected benefit obligation at end of measurement year  
$
 783,778 
$
 656,339 
 
$ 
 27,787 
$
 32,851 
 
 
Benefits paid are net of retiree contributions collected by Huntington.  The actual contributions received in 2012 by 
Huntington for the retiree medica
l program were $2.8 million. 
 
The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances 
of the fair value of Plan as
sets at the December 31, 2012 
and 2011 measurement dates: 
 
 
 
Pension 
 
 
Benefits 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012  
2011 
Fair value of plan assets at 
beginning of measurement year 
$
 
 538,970 
$
 478,479 
Changes due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
Actual return on plan assets 
 
 43,810 
 
 (6,593)
 
Employer contributions 
 
 75,000 
 
 90,000 
 
Settlements 
 
 (10,444)
 
 (10,631)
 
Benefits paid 
 
 (13,719)
 
 (12,285)
Total changes 
 
 94,647 
 
 60,491 
Fair value of plan assets at end of measurement year 
$
 
 633,617 
$
 538,970 
 
Huntington™s accumulated benefit obligation under the Plan wa
s $775.2 million and $651.3 mi
llion at December 31, 2012 
and 2011. As of December 31, 2012, the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Huntington™s plan assets by $1
41.6 
million and the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of Huntington™s plan assets by $150.2 million.  
 
 
 
164 
 
The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs recognized in the three years ended December 31, 
2012: 
 
 
 
Pension Benefits
 
Post-Retirement Benefits
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
2011 
2010 
 
2012  
2011 
2010 
Service cost 
$
 
 24,869 
$
 21,650 
$
 20,205 
$
 ---
$ 
 ---
$
 ---
Interest cost 
 
 29,215 
 
 30,073 
 
 28,869 
 1,350 
 
 1,618 
 
 1,731 
Expected return on plan assets 
 
 (45,730)
 
 (43,290)
 
 (42,113)
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Amortization of transition asset 
 
 (4)
 
 (5)
 
 5 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Amortization of prior service cost 
 
 (5,767)
 
 (5,767)
 
 (5,766)
 (1,353)
 
 (1,354)
 
 (1,353)
Amortization of loss 
 
 26,956 
 
 23,494 
 
 14,989 
 (332)
 
 (423)
 
 (699)
Settlements 
 
 5,405 
 
 5,483 
 
 9,694 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Benefit costs 
$
 
 34,944 
$
 31,638 
$
 25,883 
$
 (335)
$ 
 (159)
$
 (321)
 
Included in benefit costs are $1.1 million, $0
.8 million, and $1.0 million of plan expens
es that were recognized in the three 
years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2
010. It is Huntington™s policy to recogni
ze settlement gains and losses as incurred. 
 
Assuming no cash contributions are made to the Plan during 20
13, Management expects net periodic pension cost, excluding any 
expense of settlements, to approximate $42.
7 million for 2013.  The postretirement me
dical and life subsidy was eliminated for 
anyone that retires on or 
after March 1, 2010. As such, th
ere were no incremental net periodic post-retirement benefits costs a
ssociated 
with this plan. 
 
The estimated transition obligation, prior 
service credit, and net actuarial loss for th
e plans that will be amortized from OCI
 
into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal ye
ar is zero, $7.1 million, an
d $38.5 million, respectively.  
 
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, The Huntington National Bank, as trustee, held all Plan assets. The Plan assets consisted of 
investments in a variety of c
orporate and government fixed income investments, 
Huntington mutual funds 
and Huntington common 
stock as follows:  
 
 
 
Fair Value
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
2011 (1) 
 
 
Cash 
$
 22 
 ---
%
$ 
 25 
 ---
%
Cash equivalents: 
 
 
 
 
Huntington funds - money market
 
 6,012 
 1 
 
 39,943 
 7
 
Fixed income: 
 
 
 
 
Huntington funds - fixed income funds
 
 84,688 
 13 
 
 174,615 
 32
 
 
Corporate obligations
 
 149,241 
 24 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
U.S. Government Obligations
 
 36,595 
 6 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 
U.S. Government Agencies
 
 7,511 
 1 
 
 ---
 ---
 
Equities: 
 
 
 
 
Huntington funds
 
 312,479 
 49 
 
 283,963 
 53
 
 
Huntington common stock
 
 37,069 
 6 
 
 40,424 
 8
 
 
Other common stock
 
 ---
 ---
 
 ---
 ---
 
Fair value of plan assets 
$
 633,617 
 100 
%
$ 
 538,970 
 100
%
(1)
A $40 million contribution to the Plan on December 28, 2011, had not yet been invested and was in Huntington Funds-money 
market as of December 31, 2011.
 
 
Investments of the Plan are accounted for at cost on the trade date and are reported at fair value.  All of the Plan™s 
investments at December 31, 2012 are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy, except for corporate obligations, U
.S. 
government obligations, and U.S. government ag
encies, which are classified as Level 2.  In general, investments of the Plan are
 
exposed to various risks, such as in
terest rate risk, credit risk, and overall mar
ket volatility. Due to the level of risk asso
ciated with 
certain investments, it is reasonably possibl
e that changes in the values of investment
s will occur in the near term and that s
uch 
changes could materially affect the 
amounts reported in the Plan assets. 
 
 
 
165 
 
The investment objective of the Plan is to maximize the return on 
Plan assets over a long time period, while meeting the Plan 
obligations.  At December 31, 2012, Plan assets were invested less than 1% in cash and cash equivalents, 55% in equity investme
nts, 
and 44% in bonds, with an average duration of 12.0 years on b
ond investments.  The estimated lif
e of benefit obligations was 14
 
years. Although it may fluctuate w
ith market conditions, Management
 has targeted a long-term alloc
ation of Plan assets of 20% t
o 
50% in equity investments and 80
% to 50% in bond investments.  The allocation of 
Plan assets between equity investments and fix
ed 
income investments will change from time to
 time with the allocation to fixed income 
investments increasing as the funding leve
l 
increases. 
 
The following table shows the number of shares and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by the Plan: 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
 
Shares in Huntington common stock
(1)
 
 
 5,764,986
 7,309,986
 
 
Dividends received on shares of Huntington stock 
$
 1,085
$
 409
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
The Plan has acquired and held Huntington co
mmon stock in compliance at all times with 
Section 407 of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1978.
 
 
 

At December 31, 2012, the following table shows when benefit payments, which include expected future service, as 
appropriate, were expected to be paid: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-
 
Pension
Retirement
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Benefits
Benefits 
2013  
$ 
 42,743 
 
$
 3,837 
 
2014  
 
 42,537 
 
 
 3,585 
 
2015  
 
 42,960 
 
 
 3,369 
 
2016  
 
 43,329 
 3,156 
 
2017  
 
 43,903 
 2,994 
 
2018 through 2022 
 
 240,842 
 12,380 
 
 Although not required, Huntington may choose to make a cash
 contribution to the Plan up 
to the maximum deductible limit 
in the 2013 plan year.  An
ticipated contributions for 201
3 to the post-retirement bene
fit plan are $3.1 million. 
 
The assumed healthcare cost trend rate has an effect on 
the amounts reported. A one percentage point increase would 
decrease service and interest costs and th
e post-retirement benefit obligation by less th
an $0.01million and $0.01 million, res
pectively. 
A one percentage point decrease would increase service and inte
rest costs and the post-retirem
ent benefit obligation by less th
an $0.01 
million and $0.02 million, respectively.  
 
The 2013 and 2012 healthcare cost trend rate was projected to 
be 7.7% for pre-65 aged participants and 8.2% for post-65 
aged participants.  These rates are assumed to decrease gradually until they reach 4.5% for both pre-65 aged participants and p
ost-65 
aged participants in the year 2028 and 
remain at that level thereafter. Huntington updated the immediate healthcare cost trend 
rate 
assumption based on current market data an
d Huntington™s claims experience. This trend rate is expected to decline over time to
 a 
trend level consistent with medical inflatio
n and long-term economic assumptions.  
 
Huntington also sponsors other retiremen
t plans, the most significant being the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and 
the Supplemental Retiremen
t Income Plan. These plans are nonqualified plans that provide certain current and former officers an
d 
directors of Huntington and its subsidiaries with defined pensio
n benefits in excess of limits im
posed by federal tax law. At D
ecember 
31, 2012 and 2011, Huntington
 has an accrued pension liability of $35.4 million 
and $26.9 million, re
spectively, associated wit
h these 
plans. Pension expense for the plans was $2
.5 million, $1.8 million, and $1.8 million 
in 2012, 2011, and 20
10, respectively.  
 
The following table presents the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011 for 
all of Huntington defined benefit plans: 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
$
 
 213,335 
$
 177,092 
  
166 
 
The following tables present the amounts recognized in OCI as of December 31, 2012,  2011, and 2010, and the changes in 
accumulated OCI for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011  
2010  
N
et actuarial loss 
$
 (262,187)
$ 
 (215,628)
 
$
 (166,183)
Prior service cost 
 
 25,788 
 
 30,261 
 
 
 34,688 
Transition liability 
 
 ---
 
 3 
 
 
 6 
Defined benefit pension plans 
$
 (236,399)
$ 
 (185,364)
 
$
 (131,489)
 
 
2012  
 
 
Tax (expense) 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Pretax
Benefit
After-tax
Balance, beginning of year
$
 (285,177)
$
 99,813 
$
 (185,364)
N
et actuarial (loss) gain:
 
 
Amounts arising during the year 
 
 (105,527)
 36,934 
 (68,593)
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 33,880 
 (11,858)
 22,022 
Prior service cost:
 
Amounts arising during the year 
 
 ---
 ---
 ---
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 (6,865)
 2,403 
 (4,462)
Transition obligation:
 
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 (2)
 ---
 (2)
Balance, end of year
$
 (363,691)
$
 127,292 
$
 (236,399)
 
 
 
2011 
 
 
 
Tax (expense) 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pretax
 
 
Benefit 
After-tax
Balance, beginning of year 
$
 (202,292)
 
$ 
 70,803 
 
$
 (131,489)
N
et actuarial (loss) gain: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts arising during the year 
 
 (104,146)
 
 
 36,451 
 
 
 (67,695)
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 28,077 
 
 
 (9,827)
 
 
 18,250 
Prior service cost: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts arising during the year 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 (6,811)
 
 
 2,384 
 
 
 (4,427)
Transition obligation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 (5)
 
 
 2 
 
 
 (3)
Balance, end of year 
$
 (285,177)
 
$ 
 99,813 
 
$
 (185,364)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010  
 
 
 
 
Tax (expense) 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Pretax
 
 
Benefit 
After-tax
Balance, beginning of year 
$
 (173,029)
 
$ 
 60,561 
 
$
 (112,468)
N
et actuarial (loss) gain: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts arising during the year 
 
 (45,804)
 
 
 16,031 
 
 
 (29,773)
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 23,313 
 
 
 (8,159)
 
 
 15,154 
Prior service cost: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 (6,777)
 
 
 2,372 
 
 
 (4,405)
Transition obligation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortization included in net periodic benefit costs 
 
 5 
 
 
 (2)
 
 
 3 
Balance, end of year 
$
 (202,292)
 
$ 
 70,803 
 
$
 (131,489)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
167 
 
Huntington has a defined contribution plan that is availa
ble to eligible employees. Hu
ntington matched participant 
contributions, up to the first 3% of base pay contributed to th
e Plan.  Half of the employee co
ntribution was matched on the 4t
h and 
5th percent of base pay contributed to the Plan. Starting Janua
ry 1, 2013, Huntington matches 
participant contributions dollar-
for-
dollar, up to 4% of base pay contributed to the Plan. 
 
The following table shows the costs of providing 
the defined contribution plan as of December 31: 
 
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
2010  
Defined contribution plan 
$
 16,926
$
 14,980
 
$ 
 8,787

The following table shows the number of shares, market value, and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by 
the defined contribution plan as of December 31: 
 
 
December 31, 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except share amounts)
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
 
Shares in Huntington common stock 
 14,892,094
 15,051,291
 
 
Market value of Huntington common stock 
$
 95,160
$
 82,632
 
 
Dividends received on shares of Huntington stock 
 2,414
 1,055
 
 
 
19.  FAIR VALUES OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 
 
Huntington follows the fair value accounting guidance under ASC 820 and ASC 825.  
 
Fair value is defined as the exchange pr
ice that would be received for an asset or 
paid to transfer a liability (an exit price)
 in the 
principal or most advantageous market 
for the asset or liability in an orderly tran
saction between market participants on the 
measurement date.  A three-level valuation h
ierarchy was established for di
sclosure of fair value measurements.  The valuation 
hierarchy is based upon the tran
sparency of inputs to the va
luation of an asset or liability as 
of the measurement date.  The t
hree levels 
are defined as follows: 
 
Level 1
 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 
 
Level 2
 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs t
hat 
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or in
directly, for substantially the fu
ll term of the financial inst
rument. 
 
Level 3
 Œ inputs to the valuation methodol
ogy are unobservable and significan
t to the fair value measurement. 
 
A financial instrument™s categorization within the valuation hierarch
y is based upon the lowest le
vel
 of
 input
 that
 is
 signific
ant
 to
 the
 
fair value measurement.  Transfers in and out of Level 1, 2, or
 3 are recorded at fair value at the beginning of the reporting 
period.  
 
Following is a description of the valuation 
methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general 
classification of such instruments purs
uant to the valuation hierarchy.  
 
Mortgage loans held for sale 
Huntington elected to ap
ply the fair value option 
for mortgage loans originated with the 
intent to sell which are included in l
oans 
held for sale.  Mortgage loans held for sale are classified as Level 2 and are estimated using security prices for similar prod
uct types. 
 
168 
 
Available-for-sale securities an
d trading account securities 
Securities accounted for at fair value include both the available-for-sale and trading portfolios.  Huntington uses prices obta
ined 
from third party pricing services and recent trades to determine the fair value of securities.  AFS and trading securities are 
classified as 
Level 1 using quoted market prices (unadjus
ted) in active markets for iden
tical securities that Huntington has the ability to a
ccess at 
the measurement date. 1% of the positions in these portfolios ar
e Level 1, and consist of U.S. Treasury securities and money ma
rket 
mutual funds.  When quoted market prices are not available, fair values are classified as Level 2 using quoted prices for simil
ar assets 
in active markets, quoted prices of 
identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable 
for the asset, 
either directly or indirectly, for substantia
lly the full term of the financial instrume
nt. 96% of the positions in these portf
olios are Level 
2, and consist of U.S. Government and agency
 debt securities, agency mortgage backed 
securities, asset-backed securities, munic
ipal 
securities and other securities.  For both Level 1 and Level 2 securities, management uses various methods and techniques to 
corroborate prices obtained from the pricing service, including re
ference to dealer or other ma
rket quotes, and by reviewing va
luations 
of comparable instruments.  If relevant market prices are lim
ited or unavailable, valuations ma
y require significant management
 
judgment or estimation to determine fair value, in which case the 
fair values are classified as Level 3.  3% of our positions a
re Level 3, 
and consist of non-agency ALT-A asset-backed securities, priv
ate-label CMO securities, pooled-trust-preferred CDO securities an
d 
municipal securities.  A significant change 
in the unobservable inputs 
for these securities may resu
lt in a significant change 
in the 
ending fair value measurement of these securities. 
 
The Alt-A, private label CMO and 
pooled-trust-preferred securities portfolios are cla
ssified as Level 3 and as such use signifi
cant 
estimates to determine the fair value of 
these securities which results in greater 
subjectivity. The Alt-
A and private label CM
O 
securities portfolios are subjected to a monthly review of th
e projected cash flows, while the 
cash flows of the pooled-trust-p
referred 
securities portfolio are reviewed quarterl
y. These reviews are supported
 with analysis from indepe
ndent third parties, and are 
used as a 
basis for impairment analysis.  
 
Alt-A mortgage-backed and private-label C
MO securities are collateralized by first-lien 
residential mortgage loans. The securit
ies 
are valuation methodology incorporates valu
es obtained from a third party pricing speci
alist using a discounted cash flow appro
ach 
and a proprietary pricing model and includes 
assumptions management believes market par
ticipants would use to value the securit
ies 
under current market conditions. The model uses inputs such as estimated prepayment speeds, losses, recoveries, default rates t
hat are 
implied by the underlying performance of collateral in the struc
ture or similar structures, ho
use price depreciation / apprecia
tion rates 
that are based upon macroeconomic forecasts and discount rates 
that are implied by market prices for similar securities with si
milar 
collateral structures. 
 
Pooled-trust-preferred securities are CDOs backed by a pool of 
debt securities issued by financial institutions. The collateral
 
generally consists of trust-pref
erred securities and subordinated de
bt securities issued by banks,
 bank holding companies, and 
insurance companies. A full cash flow analysis is used to estimate fair values and assess impairment for each security within t
his 
portfolio. We engage a third party pricing specialist with direct
 industry experience in pooled-trust-preferred securities valu
ations to 
provide assistance in estimating the fair value and expected cash flows for each security in this portfolio.  The PD of each is
suer and 
the market discount rate are the most signi
ficant inputs in determining fair value. 
 Management evaluates the PD assumptions 
provided by the third party pricing specialis
t by comparing the current PD to the as
sumptions used the previous quarter, actual
 defaults 
and deferrals in the current period, and trend data on certain fi
nancial ratios of the issuers. Huntington also evaluates the a
ssumptions 
related to discount rates.   Relying on
 cash flows is necessary because there was a lack of observable transactions in the mark
et and 
many of the original sponsors or dealers for these securities ar
e no longer able to provide a f
air value that is compliant with
 ASC 820 
 
Huntington utilizes the same processes to de
termine the fair value of investment secu
rities classified as held-to-maturity for 
impairment evaluation purposes. 
 
Automobile loans 
Effective January 1, 2010, Hun
tington consolidated an automobile loan secu
ritization that previously had been accounted for as 
an off-balance sheet transaction. As a result, Huntington elected to 
account for the automobile loan receivables and the associ
ated 
notes payable at fair value per guidance supplied in ASC 825.  Th
e automobile loan receivables are classified as Level 3. The k
ey 
assumptions used to determine the fair value of the automobile loan receivables included projections of expected losses and 
prepayment of the underlying loan
s in the portfolio and a market assumption of interest rate spreads. Certain interest rates ar
e 
available from similarly traded 
securities while other interest rates are developed internally based on similar asset-backed se
curity 
transactions in the market. 
 
 
169 
 
MSRs
MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices.  Accordingly, the fair value of these assets is classifie
d as 
Level 3. Huntington determines the fair value of MSRs using an in
come approach model based upon our month-end interest rate cur
ve 
and prepayment assumptions.  The model, wh
ich is operated and ma
intained by a third party, utilizes
 assumptions to estimate fut
ure 
net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of time decay, payoffs, and changes in valuation inputs and assumptions.  
Servicing brokers and other sources of info
rmation (e.g. discussion with other mortga
ge servicers and industry surveys) are use
d to 
obtain information on market practice and assu
mptions.  On at least a quarterly basis, 
third party marks are obtained from at l
east one 
service broker.  Huntington reviews the va
luation assumptions against this market data for reasonableness and adjusts the assum
ptions 
if deemed appropriate.  Any recommended change in assumptions and 
/ or inputs are presented for review to the Mortgage Price Ri
sk 
Subcommittee for final approval.   
 
Derivatives 
Derivatives classified as Level 1 consist of exchange traded options and forward commitments to deliver mortgage-backed 
securities which are valued using quoted prices.  Asset and liability conversion swaps and options, and interest rate caps are 
classified 
as Level 2. These derivative positions are valued using a discounted cash flow method that incorporates current market interest
 rates.  
Derivatives classified as Level 3 consist primarily of interest r
ate lock agreements related to mo
rtgage loan commitments.  The
 
determination of fair value includes assu
mptions related to the likelihood that a commit
ment will ultimately result in a closed
 loan, 
which is a significant unobservable assump
tion.  A significant increase or decrease in the external market price would result i
n a 
significantly higher or lower fair value measurement.  
 
Securitization trust notes payable 
Consists of certain securitization trust notes payable related to the automobile loan receivables measured at fair value. The n
otes 
payable are classified as Level 2 and are valued base
d on interest rates for similar financial instruments. 
 
Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2012 and 2011 are summarized below: 
 
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Netting 
 
Balance at
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Level 1
Level 2  
Level 3 
Adjustments (1) 
December 31, 2012
Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage loans held for sale 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 452,949 
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 452,949 
Trading account securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Municipal securities 
 
 ---
 
 15,218 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 15,218 
Other securities 
 
 75,729 
 
 258 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 75,987 
 
 
 75,729 
 
 15,476 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 91,205 
Available-for-sale and other securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury securities 
 
 52,311 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 52,311 
Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed (2) 
 
 ---
 
 
 4,264,670 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 4,264,670 
Federal agencies: Other agencies 
 
 ---
 
 
 359,626 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 359,626 
Municipal securities 
 
 ---
 
 
 439,772 
 
 
 61,228 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 501,000 
Private-label CMO 
 
 ---
 
 
 22,793 
 
 
 48,775 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 71,568 
Asset-backed securities 
 
 ---
 
 
 919,046 
 
 
 110,037 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 1,029,083 
Covered bonds 
 
 ---
 
 
 290,625 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 290,625 
Corporate debt 
 
 ---
 
 
 668,142 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 668,142 
Other securities 
 
 17,177 
 
 
 3,898 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 21,075 
 
 
 69,488 
 
 
 6,968,572 
 
 
 220,040 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 7,258,100 
Automobile loans
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 142,762 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 142,762 
MSRs
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 35,202 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 35,202 
Derivative assets 
 
 6,368 
 
 
 465,517 
 
 
 13,180 
 
 (99,368)
 
 
 385,697 
Liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Securitization trust notes payable
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
Derivative liabilities
 
 6,813 
 
 
 228,312 
 
 
 478 
 
 
 (83,415)
 
 
 152,188 
Other liabilities
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
170 
 
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Netting 
 
Balance at 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Level 1
Level 2  
Level 3 
Adjustments (1) 
December 31, 2011
Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage loans held for sale 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 343,588 
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 343,588 
Trading account securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed 
 
 ---
 
 5,541 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 5,541 
 
Municipal securities 
 
 ---
 
 8,147 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 8,147 
 
Other securities 
 
 32,085 
 
 126 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 32,211 
 
 
 
 32,085 
 
 13,814 
 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 45,899 
Available-for-sale and other securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury securities 
 
 53,204 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 53,204 
 
Federal agencies: Mortgage-backed (2) 
 
 ---
 
 
 4,464,892 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 4,464,892 
 
Federal agencies: Other agencies 
 
 ---
 
 
 735,544 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 735,544 
 
Municipal securities 
 
 ---
 
 
 312,634 
 
 
 95,092 
 
 
 ---
 
 407,726 
 
Private-label CMO 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 72,364 
 
 
 ---
 
 72,364 
 
Asset-backed securities 
 
 ---
 
 
 845,390 
 
 
 121,698 
 
 
 ---
 
 967,088 
 
Covered bonds 
 
 ---
 
 
 504,045 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 504,045 
 
Corporate debt 
 
 ---
 
 
 528,883 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 528,883 
 
Other securities 
 
 53,619 
 
 
 4,134 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 57,753 
 
 
 
 106,823 
 
 
 7,395,522 
 
 
 289,154 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 7,791,499 
Automobile loans 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 296,250 
 
 
 ---
 
 296,250 
MSRs 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 65,001 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 65,001 
Derivative assets  
 
 4,886 
 
 
 485,428 
 
 
 6,770 
 
 (94,082)
 
 
 403,002 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Securitization trust notes payable 
 
 ---
 
 
 123,039 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 123,039 
Derivative liabilities 
 
 12,245 
 
 
 246,132 
 
 
 6,939 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 265,316 
Other liabilities 
 
 ---
 
 
 751 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 
 751 
(1) Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and
 
negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
 
(2) During 2012 and 2011, Huntington transferred $278.2 million and $469.1 million, respectively of federal agencies: mortgage-
backed 
securities from the av
ailable-for-sale securities portfolio to
 the held-to-maturity securities 
portfolio.  These securities are
 valued at 
amortized cost and no long
er classified within the fair valu
e hierarchy.  All securities were previously classified as Level 2 
in the fair 
value hierarchy. 
 
 
 
171 
 
The tables below present a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 for 
financial instruments measured on a recurring
 basis and classified as Level 3. The classification of an item as Level 3 is base
d on the 
significance of the unobse
rvable inputs to the overall fair value measuremen
t. However, Level 3 measurements may also include 
observable components of value that can be 
validated externally. Accordingly, the gains 
and losses in the table below include c
hanges in 
fair value due in part to observable factor
s that are part of the valuation methodology: 
 
 
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
Year ended December 31, 2012 
 
Available-for-sale securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asset- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative 
Municipal 
Private- 
backed 
 
Automobile
Equity 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
MSRs 
 
instruments
securities 
label CMO
securities 
 
loans 
investments
Balance, beginning of year
 
$
 65,001 
$ 
 (169)
$
 95,092 
$
 72,364 
$
 121,698 
$ 
 296,250 
$
 ---
Total gains / losses: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in earnings 
 
 (29,799)
 
 10,617 
 
 ---
 
 (796)
 
 (59)
 
 (1,230)
 
 ---
 
Included in OCI 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (1,637)
 
 8,245 
 
 23,138 
 
 ---
 
 ---
Purchases 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Sales 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (3,040)
 
 (15,183)
 
 (20,852)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Repayments 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (152,258)
 
 ---
Issuances 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Settlements 
 
 ---
 
 2,254 
 
 (29,187)
 
 (15,855)
 
 (13,888)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Transfers in / out of Level 3 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Balance, end of year
 
$
 35,202 
$ 
 12,702 
$
 61,228 
$
 48,775 
$
 110,037 
$ 
 142,762 
$
 ---
The amount of total gains
 
 
or losses for the period 
 
 
included in earnings 
 
 
(or OCI) attributable to the  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
change in unrealized gains or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
losses relating to assets still 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
held at reporting date 
$ 
 (29,799)
$ 
 5,818 
$
 (1,637)
$
 8,245 
$
 23,138 
$ 
 (1,230)
$
 ---
  
172 
 
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
Year ended December 31, 2011 
 
Available-for-sale securities
 
 
 
 
 
Asset- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative 
Municipal 
Private 
backed 
 
Automobile
Equity 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
MSRs 
 
instruments
securities 
label CMO
securities 
 
loans 
investments
Balance, beginning of year
 
$
 125,679 
$ 
 966 
$
 149,806 
$
 121,925 
$
 162,684 
$ 
 522,717 
$
 ---
Total gains / losses: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in earnings 
 
 (60,678)
 
 211 
 
 ---
 
 (1,673)
 
 (3,065)
 
 (6,577)
 
 ---
 
Included in OCI 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 349 
 
 2,070 
 
 ---
 
 ---
Purchases 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 1,760 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Sales 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (20,958)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Repayments 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (219,890)
 
 ---
Issuances 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Settlements 
 
 ---
 
 (1,346)
 
 (56,474)
 
 (27,279)
 
 (39,991)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Transfers in / out of Level 3 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Balance, end of year
 
$
 65,001 
$ 
 (169)
$
 95,092 
$
 72,364 
$
 121,698 
$ 
 296,250 
$
 ---
The amount of total gains
 
 
or losses for the period 
 
 
included in earnings 
 
 
(or OCI) attributable to the  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
change in unrealized gains or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
losses relating to assets still 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
held at reporting date 
$ 
 (60,678)
$ 
 (1,135)
$
 ---
$
 (1,494)
$
 595 
$ 
 (6,577)
$
 ---
 
 
 
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
Year ended December 31, 2010 
 
Available-for-sale securities
 
 
 
 
 
Asset- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative 
Municipal 
Private 
backed 
 
Automobile
Equity 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
MSRs 
 
instruments
securities 
label CMO
securities 
 
loans 
investments
Balance, beginning of year
 
$
 176,427 
$ 
 (4,236)
$
 11,515 
$
 477,319 
$
 407,098 
$ 
 ---
$
 25,872 
Total gains / losses: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in earnings 
 
 (50,748)
 
 4,413 
 
 ---
 
 (5,117)
 
 (6,160)
 
 (2,267)
 
 ---
 
Included in OCI 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 44,475 
 
 16,191 
 
 ---
 
 ---
Purchases 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Sales 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (112,322)
 
 (312,460)
 
 (53,806)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Repayments 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (266,381)
 
 ---
Issuances 
 
 ---
 
 (1,741)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Settlements 
 
 ---
 
 2,530 
 
 (73,024)
 
 (82,292)
 
 (16,566)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Transfers in / out of Level 3 (1) 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 323,637 
 
 ---
 
 (184,073)
 
 791,365 
 
 (25,872)
Balance, end of year
 
$
 125,679 
$ 
 966 
$
 149,806 
$
 121,925 
$
 162,684 
$ 
 522,717 
$
 ---
The amount of total gains
 
 
or losses for the period 
 
 
included in earnings 
 
 
(or OCI) attributable to the  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
change in unrealized gains or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
losses relating to assets still 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
held at reporting date 
$ 
 (50,748)
$ 
 1,715 
$
 ---
$
 5,565 
$
 15,113 
$ 
 (2,267)
$
 ---
 
(1) Transfers in / out of Level 3 include a transfer in of $32
3.6 million relating to municipal s
ecurities, due to lack of obse
rvable 
market data, a transfer out of $184
.1 million of securities related to the conso
lidation of the 2009 Trus
t and a transfer in of
 $791.4 
million of loans related to the 2009 Trust. 
 
173 
 
The tables below summarize the classification of gains and losses due 
to changes in fair value, r
ecorded in earnings for Level 
3 
assets and liabilities for the years ende
d December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: 
 
 
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
Year ended December 31, 2012 
 
Available-for-sale securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asset- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative 
Municipal 
Private 
backed 
 
Automobile
Equity 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
MSRs 
 
instruments
securities 
label CMO
securities 
 
loans 
investments
Classification of gains and losses in earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income (loss) 
$ 
 (29,799)
$ 
 10,617 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$ 
 ---
$
 ---
Securities gains (losses) 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (1,614)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
Interest and fee income 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 818 
 
 (59)
 
 (6,950)
 
 ---
N
oninterest income 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 5,720 
 
 ---
Total
 
$
 (29,799)
$ 
 10,617 
$
 ---
$
 (796)
$
 (59)
$ 
 (1,230)
$
 ---
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
Year ended December 31, 2011 
 
Available-for-sale securities
 
 
 
 
 
Asset- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative 
Municipal 
Private 
backed 
 
Automobile
Equity 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
MSRs 
 
instruments
securities 
label CMO
securities 
 
loans 
investments
Classification of gains and losses in earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income (loss) 
$ 
 (60,678)
$ 
 6,635 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$ 
 ---
$
 ---
Securities gains (losses) 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (2,551)
 
 (4,159)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Interest and fee income 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 878 
 
 1,094 
 
 (11,645)
 
 ---
N
oninterest income 
 
 ---
 
 (6,424)
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 5,068 
 
 ---
Total
 
$
 (60,678)
$ 
 211 
$
 ---
$
 (1,673)
$
 (3,065)
$ 
 (6,577)
$
 ---
Level 3 Fair Value Measurements  
Year ended December 31, 2010 
 
Available-for-sale securities
 
 
 
 
 
Asset- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative 
Municipal 
Private 
backed 
 
Automobile
Equity 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
MSRs 
 
instruments
securities 
label CMO
securities 
 
loans 
investments
Classification of gains and losses in earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income (loss) 
$ 
 (50,748)
$ 
 4,413 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 ---
$ 
 ---
$
 ---
Securities gains (losses) 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 (7,149)
 
 (6,554)
 
 ---
 
 ---
Interest and fee income 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 2,032 
 
 394 
 
 (11,202)
 
 ---
N
oninterest income 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 8,935 
 
 ---
Total
 
$
 (50,748)
$ 
 4,413 
$
 ---
$
 (5,117)
$
 (6,160)
$ 
 (2,267)
$
 ---
 
174 
 
Assets and liabilities under the fair value option  
 
 The following table presents the fair va
lue and aggregate principal balance of certai
n assets and liabilities under the fair v
alue 
option: 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
December 31, 2011 
 
 
 
Fair value
Aggregate
 
Fair value
Aggregate
 
 
carrying 
unpaid
 
carrying 
unpaid
(dollar amounts in thousands)
amoun
t
principal
Difference
 
 
amoun
t
principal
Difference
Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage loans held for sale 
$
 
 452,949 
$
 438,254 
$
 14,695 
$
 343,588 
 
$ 
 328,641 
 
$
 14,947 
 
Automobile loans 
 
 142,762 
 
 140,916 
 
 1,846 
 
 296,250 
 
 
 293,174 
 
 
 3,076 
Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Securitization trust notes payable
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 123,039 
 
 
 121,016 
 
 
 2,023 
 
The following tables present the net gains (l
osses) from fair value changes, including 
net gains (losses) associated with instr
ument 
specific credit risk for the years ended 
December 31, 2012, 
2011 and 2010: 
 
 
 
Net gains (losses) from fair value changes
 
 
Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
2011 
 
 
 
 
2010 
 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage loans held for sale 
$
 4,284 
$
 13,842 
 
 
$
 (5,633)
 
Automobile loans 
 
 (1,231)
 (6,577)
 
 
 
 (2,267)
Liabilities 
 
 
 
Securitization trust notes payable
 
 (2,023)
 (7,731)
 
 
 
 (9,565)
 
 
 
Gains (losses) included in fair value changes
 
associated with instrument specific credit risk
 
 
Year ended December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
2011 
 
 
 
 
2010 
 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
Automobile loans 
$
 2,749 
$
 6,610 
 
 
$
 3,370 
 
 
Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
 
Certain assets and liabilities may be required to be measured at fa
ir value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to th
eir 
initial recognition.  These assets an
d liabilities are not measured at fair value on
 an ongoing basis; however, they are subjec
t to fair 
value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of impairment.  For the year ended December 31, 2012
, 
assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were as follows:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quoted Prices
Significant 
Significant 
Total  
 
 
In Active 
Other 
Other 
Gains/(Losses)
 
 
Markets for 
Observable 
Unobservable 
For the 
 
Fair Value at
 
 
Identical Assets
 
Inputs
Inputs
 
Year Ended
(dollar amounts in thousands)
December 31,
(Level 1) 
(Level 2) 
(Level 3) 
December 31, 
2012  
 
 
 
 
 
Impaired loans 
$ 
 150,873 
 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 150,873 
 
$
 (43,386)
 
Other real estate owned 
 28,097 
 
 ---
 
 
 ---
 
 28,097 
 
$
 (8,284)
 
 
 
 
175 
 
Periodically, Huntington record
s nonrecurring adjustments of collateral-depe
ndent loans measured fo
r impairment when 
establishing the ACL. Such amounts are generally based on the fair
 value of the underlying colla
teral supporting the loan.  App
raisals 
are generally obtained to support the fair
 value of the collateral and incorporate meas
ures such as recent 
sales prices for com
parable 
properties and cost of construction.  In cases where the carryi
ng value exceeds the fair value of the collateral less cost to s
ell, an 
impairment charge is recognized.  During the year ended Decembe
r 31, 2012, Huntington identified 
$150.9 million of impaired loa
ns 
for which the fair value is reco
rded based upon collateral v
alue. For the year ended December 
31, 2012, nonrecur
ring fair value
 losses 
of $43.4 million were recorded within the provision for credit losses. 
 
Other real estate owned properties are included in accrued income and other assets and valued based on appraisals and third par
ty 
price opinions, less estimated selling costs.  During the year ended December 31, 2012, Huntington recorded $28.1 million of OR
EO 
assets at fair value and recognized losses of $8.3
 million, recorded within noninterest expense. 
 
Significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis 
 
The table below presents qu
antitative information about 
the significant unobserv
able inputs for assets and liabilities measured
 at fair 
value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2012: 
 
Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements
 
(dollar amounts in thousands,
Fair Value at
 
Valuation 
 
Significant 
 
Range 
except net costs to service)
 
December 31, 2012
 
Technique 
 
Unobservable Input 
 
(Weighted Average) 
MSRs 
$ 
 35,202 
 
Discounted cash flo
w
 
Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
 
10.0% - 31.0% (20.0%)
 
 
 
 
 
Spread over forward interest rate 
swap rates
 
-568 - 4,552 (1,288)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative assets 
 
 13,180 
 
Consensus Pricing
 
Net market price
 
-2.3% - 10.8% (3.0%)
Derivative liabilities 
 
 478 
 
 
Estimated Pull thru %
 
38.0% - 89.0% (75.0%)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Municipal securities 
 
 61,228 
 
Discounted cash flo
w
 
Discount rate
 
1.7% - 12.0% (3.1%)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private-label CMO 
 
 48,775 
 
Discounted cash flo
w
 
Discount rate
 
3.0% - 8.5% (6.2%)
 
 
 
 
 
Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
 
5.1% - 26.7% (14.8%)
 
 
 
 
 
Probability of default
 
0.1% - 4.0% (1.0%)
 
 
 
 
 
Loss Severity
 
0.0% - 64.0% (27.8%)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Asset-backed securities 
 
 110,037 
 
Discounted cash flo
w
 
Discount rate
 
4.5% - 16.6% (9.0%)
 
 
 
 
 
Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
 
5.1% - 9.8% (5.3%)
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative prepayment rate
 
0.0% - 100.0% (6.9%)
 
 
 
 
 
Constant default
 
0.3% - 4.0% (2.8%)
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative defaul
t
 
1.1% - 100.0% (20.1%)
 
 
 
 
 
Loss given default
 
85.0% - 100.0% (92.4%)
 
 
 
 
 
Cure given deferral
 
0.0% - 90.0% (34.7%)
 
 
 
 
 
Loss severity
 
20.0% - 72.0% (64.9%)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Automobile loans 
 
 142,762 
 
Discounted cash flo
w
 
Constant prepayment rate (CPR)
 
15.6%
 
 
 
 
 
Discount rate
 
0.8% - 5.0% (4.0%)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impaired loans 
 
 150,873 
 
Appraisal value
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other real estate owned 
 
 28,097 
 
Appraisal value
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
176 
 
The following provides a general 
description of the impact of a ch
ange in an unobserv
able input on the fair value measurement 
and the interrelationship between
 unobservable inputs, 
where relevant/significant.  Interr
elationships may also exist between 
observable and unobservable inputs.  Such relationships
 have not been included in the discussion below. 
 
A significant change in the unobservable in
puts may result in a significant change in the ending fair value measurement of Leve
l 
3 instruments.  In general, prepayment ra
tes increase when market interest rates decline and decrease when market interest rate
s rise 
and higher prepayment rates gene
rally result in lower fair values for MSR a
ssets, Private-label CMO securities, Asset-backed 
securities, and auto
mobile loans.   
 
Credit loss estimates, such as probability of de
fault, constant default, cumulative defau
lt, loss given default, cure given def
erral, 
and loss severity, are driven 
by the ability of the borrowers to
 pay their loans and the valu
e of the underlying collateral and
 are 
impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, typically incr
easing when economic conditions 
worsen and decreasing when 
conditions improve.  An increas
e in the estimated prepayment r
ate typically results in a decrease in estimated credit losses an
d vice 
versa.  Higher credit loss estimates generally result in lower fa
ir values.  Credit spreads gener
ally increase when liquidity r
isks and 
market volatility increase and decreas
e when liquidity conditions an
d market volatility improve.   
 
Discount rates and spread over forward inter
est rate swap rates typically increase when 
market interest rates increase and/or c
redit 
and liquidity risks increase and decrease wh
en market interest rates declin
e and/or credit and liquidity
 conditions improve.  H
igher 
discount rates and credit spreads generally 
result in lower fair market values.   
 
Net market price and pull through percentages generally increase when market interest rates increase and decline when market 
interest rates decline.  Higher net mark
et price and pull through percentages gene
rally result in higher fair values. 
Fair values of financial instruments  
 
The following table provides the 
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of Hu
ntington™s financial instruments that are carr
ied 
either at fair value or cost at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011: 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
December 31, 2011
 
 
 
Carrying 
Fair 
Carrying 
Fair 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Amount
Value 
Amount
Value 
Financial Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash and short-term assets 
$
 1,333,727 
$
 1,333,727 
$
 1,206,911
$
 1,206,911 
 
Trading account securities 
 
 91,205 
 91,205 
 45,899
 
 45,899 
 
Loans held for sale 
 
 764,309 
 773,013 
 1,618,391
 
 1,638,276 
 
Available-for-sale and other securities 
 
 7,566,175 
 7,566,175 
 8,078,014
 
 8,078,014 
 
Held-to-maturity securities 
 
 1,743,876 
 1,794,105 
 640,551
 
 660,186 
 
N
et loans and direct financing leases 
 
 39,959,350 
 38,401,965 
 37,958,955
 
 36,669,829 
 
Derivatives 
 
 385,697 
 385,697 
 403,002
 
 403,002 
Financial Liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits  
 
 46,252,683 
 46,330,715 
 43,279,625
 
 43,406,125 
 
Short-term borrowings  
 
 589,814 
 584,671 
 1,441,092
 
 1,429,717 
 
Federal Home Loan Bank advances 
 
 1,008,959 
 1,008,959 
 362,972
 
 362,972 
 
Other long term debt 
 
 158,784 
 156,719 
 1,231,517
 
 1,232,975 
 
Subordinated notes 
 
 1,197,091 
 1,183,827 
 1,503,368
 
 1,410,392 
 
Derivatives 
 
 152,188 
 152,188 
 265,316
 
 265,316 
 
  
177 
 
The following table presents the level in the 
fair value hierarchy for the estimated fair
 values of only Huntington™s financial
 
instruments that are not already on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011: 
 
Estimated Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Balance at
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Level 1
Level 2  
Level 3 
 
 
December 31, 2012
Financial Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans held for sale 
$
 ---
$
 ---
$
 316,007 
$ 
 316,007 
Held-to-maturity securities 
 
 ---
 1,794,105 
 
 ---
 
 1,794,105 
N
et loans and direct financing leases 
 
 ---
 ---
 
 38,259,203 
 
 38,259,203 
Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits 
 
 ---
 39,136,127 
 7,194,588 
 46,330,715 
Short-term borrowings 
 
 ---
 ---
 584,671 
 584,671 
Other long-term debt 
 
 ---
 2,124 
 154,595 
 156,719 
Subordinated notes 
 
 ---
 ---
 1,183,827 
 1,183,827 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
Balance at 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Level 1
Level 2  
Level 3 
 
 
December 31, 2011
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans held for sale 
$
 ---
 
$
 ---
 
$
 1,291,755 
 
$ 
 1,291,755 
 
Held-to-maturity securities 
 
 ---
 
 660,186 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 660,186 
 
N
et loans and direct financing leases 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 36,373,579 
 
 
 36,373,579 
Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits 
 
 ---
 
 35,049,194 
 
 
 8,356,931 
 
 
 43,406,125 
 
Short-term borrowings 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 1,429,717 
 
 
 1,429,717 
 
Other long-term debt 
 
 ---
 
 937,959 
 
 
 171,977 
 
 
 1,109,936 
 
Subordinated notes 
 
 ---
 
 ---
 
 
 1,410,392 
 
 
 1,410,392 
 
The short-term nature of certain assets and liabilities result in 
their carrying value approximating fair value. These include 
trading 
account securities, customers™ acceptance liabilities, short-term borrowings, bank acceptances outstanding, FHLB advances, and 
cash 
and short-term assets, which include cash and due from banks, in
terest-bearing deposits in banks, and federal funds sold and se
curities 
purchased under resale agreements. Loan comm
itments and letters of credit generally have
 short-term, variable-rate features and
 
contain clauses that limit Huntington™s exposure to changes in customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, whi
ch are 
immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of fair value. Not all the financial instruments lis
ted in the 
table above are subject to the disclosure provisions of ASC Topic 820. 
 
Certain assets, the most significant being operating lease assets, 
bank owned life insurance, and premises and equipment, do no
t 
meet the definition of a financial instrument and are excluded fr
om this disclosure. Similarly, 
mortgage and nonmortgage servic
ing 
rights, deposit base, and other customer re
lationship intangibles are not considered 
financial instruments and are not included
 above. 
Accordingly, this fair value information is 
not intended to, and does not,
 represent Huntington™s unde
rlying value. Many of the
 assets 
and liabilities subject to the disclos
ure requirements are not actively traded, requir
ing fair values to be estimated by Manage
ment. 
These estimations necessarily involve the 
use of judgment about a wide
 variety of factors, including but not limited to, releva
ncy of 
market prices of comparable instruments, expected future
 cash flows, and approp
riate discount rates.  
 
The following methods and assumptions were us
ed by Huntington to estimate the fair va
lue of the remaining classes of financial 
instruments: 
 
Loans and Direct Financing Leases 
Variable-rate loans that reprice frequently are based on carrying
 amounts, as adjusted for estimated credit losses. The fair va
lues for 
other loans and leases are estimated using discounted cash flow anal
yses and employ interest rate
s currently being offered for 
loans 
and leases with similar terms. The rates take 
into account the position of th
e yield curve, as well as an adjustment for prepay
ment risk, 
operating costs, and profit. This value is also reduced by an
 estimate of expected losses and the credit risk associated in the
 loan and 
lease portfolio. The valuation of 
the loan portfolio reflected discounts that Huntin
gton believed are consistent with transacti
ons 
occurring in the market place.  
 
Deposits 
Demand deposits, savings accounts, and money market deposits are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand. The fai
r 
values of fixed-rate time deposits are es
timated by discounting cash flows using inte
rest rates currently being offered on cert
ificates 
with similar maturities.  
178 
 
 
Debt 
Fixed-rate, long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices, 
which are inclusive of Huntington™s credit risk. In the absence 
of 
quoted market prices, discounted cash flows using market rates for si
milar debt with the same maturities are used in the determ
ination 
of fair value. 
 
20.  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
 
Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in accrued 
income and other assets or accrued 
expenses and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value.  
 
Derivatives used in Asset and Liability Management Activities  
 
A variety of derivative financial instrumen
ts, principally interest rate swaps, cap, floors, and collars, are used in asset and
 liability 
management activities to prot
ect against the risk of adverse price or interest 
rate movements. These instruments provide flexib
ility in 
adjusting Huntington™s sensitivity to change
s in interest rates without 
exposure to loss of principal and higher funding requir
ements.   
Huntington records derivatives at fair va
lue, as further described in Note 19. Co
llateral agreements are regularly entered into
 as part of 
the underlying derivative agreements with Huntington™s counterparties to mitigate counterparty credit risk.  At December 31, 20
12 
and 2011, aggregate credit risk associated with these derivatives, net of collateral that has been pledged by the counterparty,
 was $17.4 
million and $36.4 million, resp
ectively. The credit risk associated
 with derivatives used in asset and liability management act
ivities is 
calculated after considering master netting agreements.  
 
At December 31, 2012, Huntington pledged $181.1 million of investment securities and cash collateral to counterparties, while 
other counterparties pledge
d $162.5 million of investment securities and cas
h collateral to Huntington to satisfy collateral ne
tting 
agreements.  In the event of 
credit downgrades, Huntington would not be
 required to provide additional collateral. 
The following table presents the 
gross notional values of derivatives used in 
Huntington™s asset and liability management 
activities at December 31, 2012, identified by th
e underlying interest rate-sensitive instruments: 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value
Cash Flow 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Hedges
Hedges 
Total 
Instruments associated with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans 
$
 ---
 
$ 
 9,188,000 
 
$
 9,188,000 
 
Deposits 
 691,875 
 
 
 ---
 
 691,875 
 
Subordinated notes 
 598,000 
 
 
 ---
 
 598,000 
 
Other long-term debt 
 35,000 
 
 
 ---
 
 35,000 
Total notional value at December 31, 2012
 
$
 1,324,875 
$
 9,188,000 
$
 10,512,875 
 
The following table presents additional inform
ation about the interest rate swaps and cap
s used in Huntington™s asset and liabi
lity 
management activities at D
ecember 31, 2012: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average
 
 
 
 
Weighted-Average 
 
 
 
Notional 
 
Maturity
 
 
Fair 
 
Rate 
(dollar amounts in thousands )
 
Value
(years) 
Value 
 
Receive 
Pay 
Asset conversion swaps 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receive fixed - generic 
$
 9,188,000 
 
2.9  
 
$
 58,678 
 
 1.01 
%
 0.47 
%
Total asset conversion swaps
 
 9,188,000 
 
2.9  
 
 
 58,678 
 
 1.01 
 
 0.47 
 
Liability conversion swaps 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receive fixed - generic 
 
 1,324,875 
 
3.2  
 
 
 110,544 
 
 2.88 
 
 0.39 
 
Total liability co
nversion swaps
 
 1,324,875 
 
3.2  
 
 
 110,544 
 
 2.88 
 
 0.39 
 
Total swap portfolio
 
$
 10,512,875 
2.9  
$
 169,222 
 1.25 
%
 0.46 
%
 
These derivative financial instruments were 
entered into for the pu
rpose of managing the interest rate risk of assets and liabi
lities. 
Consequently, net amounts receivable or paya
ble on contracts hedging either interest
 earning assets or interest bearing liabili
ties were 
accrued as an adjustment to either interest income or interest expense. The net amounts resulted in an increase to net interest
 income 
of $107.5 million, $113.9 million, and $192.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.   
 
179 
 
In connection with securitization activities, Hun
tington purchased interest rate caps w
ith a notional valu
e totaling $0.6 billi
on. 
These purchased caps were 
assigned to the securitization trust 
for the benefit of the security 
holders. Interest 
rate caps were
 also sold 
totaling $0.6 billion outside the 
securitization structure. Both the purchased and 
sold caps are marked 
to market through incom
e. 
 
In connection with the sale of
 Huntington's Class B Visa

 shares, Huntington enter
ed into a swap agreement with the purchaser of 
the shares.  The swap agreement adjusts 
for dilution in the co
nversion ratio of Class B 
shares resulting from the Visa

 litigation.  At 
December 31 2012, the fair value of the swap liability of $0.4 million is an estimate of the exposure liability based upon Hunt
ington™s 
assessment of the potential Visa

 litigation losses. 
 
The following table presents the fair values at December 31, 2012 and 2011 of Huntington™s derivatives that are designated and 
not designated as hedging instruments. Amounts in the table below 
are presented gross without the impact of any net collateral 
arrangements: 
 
Asset derivatives included in accrued income and other assets
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
2011 
Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments 
$ 
 169,222
 
$
 175,932 
Interest rate contracts not designated as hedging instruments  
 
 296,295
 
 
 309,496 
Foreign exchange contracts not de
signated as hedging instruments 
 
 5,605
 
 
 4,885 
Total contracts
 
$
 471,122
$
 490,313 
Liability derivatives included in accrued expenses and other liabilities
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
2011 
Interest rate contracts designated as hedging instruments 
$ 
 ---
 
$
 ---
Interest rate contracts not designated as hedging instruments  
 
 228,757
 
 
 252,962 
Foreign exchange contracts not de
signated as hedging instruments 
 
 4,655
 
 
 4,318 
Total contracts
 
$
 233,412
$
 257,280 
 
Fair value hedges are purchased to convert 
deposits and subordinated and other long-t
erm debt from fixed-rate obligations to 
floating rate.  The changes in fair value of the derivative ar
e, to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, reco
rded through 
earnings and offset against changes in
 the fair value of the hedged item. 
 
The following table presents the change in fair value for deriva
tives designated as fair value hedges as well as the offsetting
 
change in fair value on the hedged item: 
 
 
Year ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
 
2011  
2010  
Interest rate contracts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in fair value of interest
 rate swaps hedging deposits (1) 
$
 (2,526)
$ 
 801 
 
$
 6,108 
 
Change in fair value of hedged deposits (1) 
 
 2,601 
 
 (1,050)
 
 
 (6,744)
 
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging subordinated notes (2) 
 
 1,432 
 
 45,480 
 
 
 19,319 
 
Change in fair value of hedged subordinated notes (2) 
 
 (1,432)
 
 (45,480)
 
 
 (19,319)
 
Change in fair value of interest rate
 swaps hedging other long-term debt (2) 
 
 114 
 
 2,493 
 
 
 1,847 
 
Change in fair value of hedged other long-term debt (2) 
 
 (114)
 
 (2,493)
 
 
 (1,847)
(1) Effective portion of the hedgi
ng relationship is recognized in
 Interest expense - deposits 
in the Consolid
ated Statements o
f 
Income.  Any resulting in
effective portion of the hedging r
elationship is recognized in nonint
erest income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) Effective portion of the hedging relationship is recognized 
in Interest expense - subordinated notes and other-long-term de
bt in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income.  Any resulting ineffective po
rtion of the hedging relationship 
is recognized in noninterest 
income 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
 
 
 
180 
 
For cash flow hedges, interest rate swap contracts were entered in
to that pay fixed-rate interest in
 exchange for the receipt o
f 
variable-rate interest without the exchange of the contract™s 
underlying notional amount, which 
effectively converts a portion 
of its 
floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate debt. Th
is reduces the potentially adverse impact of
 increases in interest rates on future i
nterest 
expense.  Other LIBOR-based commercial and industrial loans were 
effectively converted to fixed-rate by entering into contracts
 that 
swap certain variable-rate interest payments for fixed-rate interest payments at designated times. 
 
To the extent these derivatives are effecti
ve in offsetting the variability of the hedg
ed cash flows, changes in the derivative
s™ fair 
value will not be included in current earnings but are reported as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statements of Shareho
lders™ 
Equity. These changes in fair va
lue will be included in earnings of future periods
 when earnings are also affected by the chang
es in the 
hedged cash flows. To the extent these derivatives are not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in 
noninterest income.  
 
The following table presents the gains and (losses) recognized in OCI and the location in the Consolidated Statements of Income
 
of gains and (losses) reclassified from OCI into earnings
 for derivatives designated as effective cash flow hedges: 
 
Derivatives in cash 
flow hedging 
relationships
 
Amount of gain or (loss) 
recognized in OCI on 
derivatives (effective portion)
Location of gain or (loss) 
reclassified from accumulated 
OCI into earnings (effective 
portion) 
Amount of gain or (loss) 
reclassified from accumulated 
OCI into earnings (effective 
portion) 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
 
2011  
 
 
2010  
 
2012  
 
 
2011  
2010  
Interest rate contracts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans 
$ 
(2,866)
$ 
2,469 
 
$ 
51,943 
 
Interest and fee income - loans and 
leases 
$
14,849 
$ 
3,080 
 
$
(116,881)
 
Investment securities 
 
(703)
 
703 
 
 
---
 
Interest and fee income - 
investment securities 
 
---
 
---
 
 
---
 
FHLB Advances 
 
---
 
---
 
 
---
 
Interest expense - FHLB Advances
 
---
 
---
 
 
2,580 
 
Subordinated notes 
 
---
 
---
 
 
---
 
Interest expense - subordinated 
notes and other long-term debt 
 
143 
 
27 
 
 
(1,391)
Total
 
$
(3,569)
$ 
3,172 
 
$ 
51,943 
 
 
$
14,992 
$ 
3,107 
 
$
(115,692)
 
Reclassified gains and losses on swaps relat
ed to loans and investment securities an
d swaps related to subordinated debt are 
recorded within interest income and interest 
expense, respectively. During the next twel
ve months, Huntington expects to reclas
sify to 
earnings $39.6 million after-tax, of unrealized gains 
on cash flow hedging derivatives currently in OCI. 
 
The following table presents the gains and (losses) recognized 
in noninterest income for the ineffective portion of interest ra
te 
contracts for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the years ending December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010: 
 
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
 
2011  
 
2010  
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans 
$
 
 (179)
$ 
 98 
 
$
 947 
 
Derivatives used in trading activities 
 
Various derivative financial instruments are offered to enable cu
stomers to meet their financin
g and investing objectives and f
or 
their risk management purposes. Derivativ
e financial instruments used in trading 
activities consisted predominantly of interest
 rate 
swaps, but also included interest rate caps, floors, and futures, 
as well as foreign exchange op
tions. Interest rate options gr
ant the 
option holder the right to buy or sell an 
underlying financial instrument for a predet
ermined price before the contract expires
. Interest 
rate futures are commitments to either pu
rchase or sell a financial instrument at a future date for a specified price or yield 
and may be 
settled in cash or through delive
ry of the underlying financial instrument. Inter
est rate caps and floors are option-based cont
racts that 
entitle the buyer to receive cash payments based on the difference between a designated reference rate and a strike price, appl
ied to a 
notional amount. Written options, primarily caps,
 expose Huntington to market risk bu
t not credit risk. Purchased options conta
in both 
credit and market risk.  The interest rate risk
 of these customer derivatives is mitig
ated by entering into similar derivatives
 having 
offsetting terms with other counterparties. The credit risk to th
ese customers is evaluated and 
included in th
e calculation of 
fair value. 
 
181 
 
The net fair values of these derivative financial instruments, for which the gross amounts are included in accrued income and 
other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities at December 31, 2012 and 2011, were $63.4 million and $53.2 million, 
respectively. The total notional values of de
rivative financial instruments used by Hun
tington on behalf of customers, includin
g 
offsetting derivatives, were $12.0 billion and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Huntington™s credit r
isks 
from interest rate swaps used for trading purposes were $296.
1 million and $309.5 million at the same dates, respectively.  
 
Derivatives used in mortgage banking activities 
 
Huntington also uses certain derivative fina
ncial instruments to offset changes in va
lue of its residential MSRs.  These deriva
tives 
consist primarily of forward interest rate agreements and forward 
mortgage securities.  The derivative instruments used are not
 
designated as hedges.  Accordingly, such 
derivatives are recorded at fair value with 
changes in fair value reflected in mortgag
e 
banking income
.
  The following table summarizes th
e derivative assets and liabilities used in mortgage banking activities: 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
2011  
Derivative assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate lock agreements 
$ 
 13,180 
$
 6,770 
 
Forward trades and options 
 
 763 
 
 1 
Total derivative assets
 
 13,943 
 
 6,771 
Derivative liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate lock agreements 
 
 (33)
 
 (109)
 
Forward trades and options 
 
 (2,158)
 
 (7,927)
Total derivative liabilities
 
 (2,191)
 
 (8,036)
Net derivative asset (liability)
 
$
 11,752 
$
 (1,265)
 
The total notional value of these derivative financial instru
ments at December 31, 2012 an
d 2011, was $2.3 billion and $1.7 
billion, respectively.  The total notional amount at December 31, 2012 corresponds to trading assets with a fair value of $6.4 
million 
and trading liabilities with a fair value of 
$1.0 million. Total MSR hedging gains for th
e years ended December 31, 2012, 2011,
 and 
2010, were $31.3 million, $42.1 million,
 and $55.0 million, respectivel
y.  Included in total MSR he
dging gains for the years en
ded 
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 were gains and (losses) related to derivatives instruments of $31.2 million, $42.2 million, a
nd 
$64.6 million, respectively.  These amounts are included in mort
gage banking income in the 
Consolidated Statemen
ts of Income. 
 
21.  VIEs 
 
Consolidated VIEs  
 
Consolidated VIEs at December 31, 2012 consisted of automobile loan and lease securitization trusts formed in 2009 and 2006.  
Huntington has determined the trusts are VIEs.  Huntington has co
ncluded that it is the primary beneficiary of these trusts bec
ause it 
has the power to direct the activities of th
e entity that most significantly affect th
e entity™s economic performance and it ha
s either the 
obligation to absorb losses of 
the entity that could potentially be
 significant to the VIE or the 
right to receive benefits fro
m the entity 
that could potentially be sign
ificant to the VIE.   
 
 
182 
 
The following tables present th
e carrying amount and classification of the co
nsolidated trusts™ assets and liabilities that wer
e 
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011: 
 
 
 
 
 
2009  
2006  
Other 
 
 
 
Automobile 
Automobile 
Consolidated 
 
 
 
Trust
Trust
Trusts
Total 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
December 31, 2012
Assets:
 
Cash 
 
$
 12,577 
$
 91,113 
$
 ---
$
 103,690
Loans and leases 
 
 142,762 
 356,162 
 ---
 498,924
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
 
 ---
 (2,671)
 ---
 (2,671)
N
et loans and leases 
 
 142,762 
 353,491 
 ---
 496,253
Accrued income and other assets 
 
 617 
 1,353 
 288 
 2,258
Total assets
 
$
 155,956 
$
 445,957 
$
 288 
$
 602,201
Liabilities:
 
Other long-term debt 
 
$
 ---
$
 2,086 
$
 ---
$
 2,086
Accrued interest and other 
liabilities 
 
 ---
 1 
 288 
 289
Total liabilities
 
$
 ---
$
 2,087 
$
 288 
$
 2,375
 
 
 
2008  
2009  
2006  
Other 
 
 
 
 
Automobile 
Automobile 
Automobile 
Consolidated 
 
 
 
 
Trust 
Trust 
Trust 
Trusts 
Total 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
December 31, 2011
Assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash 
$ 
 12,722 
 
$
 18,212 
 
$
 52,325 
 
$
 ---
 
$
 83,259
 
Loans and leases 
 
 131,563 
 
 
 296,250 
 
 
 704,345 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 1,132,158
 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
 
 (1,118)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 (5,987)
 
 
 ---
 
 
 (7,105)
 
N
et loans and leases 
 
 130,445 
 
 
 296,250 
 
 
 698,358 
 
 
 ---
 
 
 1,125,053
 
Accrued income and other assets 
 
 610 
 
 
 1,692 
 
 
 2,959 
 
 
 1,117 
 
 
 6,378
Total assets 
$ 
 143,777 
 
$
 316,154 
 
$
 753,642 
 
$
 1,117 
 
$
 1,214,690
Liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other long-term debt 
$ 
 18,230 
 
$
 123,039 
 
$
 333,644 
 
$
 ---
 
$
 474,913
 
Accrued interest and other 
liabilities 
 
 40 
 
 
 298 
 
 
 88 
 
 
 419 
 
 
 845
Total liabilities 
$ 
 18,270 
 
$
 123,337 
 
$
 333,732 
 
$
 419 
 
$
 475,758
 
The automobile loans and leases were designated to repay the securitized notes.  Huntington services the loans and leases and 
uses the proceeds from principal
 and interest payments to pay the securitized 
notes during the amortiz
ation period.  Huntington
 has not 
provided financial or other support that wa
s not previously contractually required.  
 
 
183 
 
Unconsolidated VIEs 
The following tables provide 
a summary of assets and liabilities included in Hu
ntington™s Consolidated Financial Statements, as
 
well as the maximum exposure to losses associated with interests 
related to unconsolidated VIEs 
for which Huntington holds an 
interest, but is not the primary beneficiary 
to the VIE at December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
 
 
December 31, 2012 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Total Assets
Total Liabilities
Maximum Exposure to Loss
2012-1 Automobile Trust 
$
 12,649 
$
 ---
$
 12,649
2012-2 Automobile Trust 
 13,616 
 ---
 13,616
2011 Automobile Trust 
 7,076 
 ---
 7,076
Tower Hill Securities, Inc. 
 87,075 
 65,000 
 87,075
Trust Preferred Securities 
 13,764 
 312,894 
 ---
Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnerships 
 391,878 
 152,047 
 391,878
Total 
$
 526,058 
$
 529,941 
$
 512,294
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Total Assets
 
Total Liabilities
 
Maximum Exposure to Loss
2011 Automobile Trust 
$
 13,377 
$
 ---
$ 
 13,377
Tower Hill Securities, Inc. 
$
 90,514 
$
 65,000 
$ 
 90,514
Trust Preferred Securities 
 
 17,364 
 
 554,496 
 
 ---
Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnerships 
 
 376,098 
 
 157,754 
 
 376,098
Total 
$
 497,353 
$
 777,250 
$ 
 479,989

2012-1 AUTOMOBILE TRUST, 2012-2 AUTOMOBILE TRUST, and 2011 AUTOMOBILE TRUST 
 
During the 2012 fourth quarter, 2012 firs
t quarter, and 2011 third quarter, we tran
sferred automobile lo
ans totaling $1.0 billi
on, 
$1.3 billion, and $1.0 billion, respectively to trusts in separa
te securitization transactions. The securitizations and the res
ulting sale of 
all underlying securities qualified for sale 
accounting. Huntington has concluded that
 it is not the primary beneficiary of the
se trusts 
because it has neither the obligation to absorb losses of the entities that could potentially be significant to the VIEs nor th
e right to 
receive benefits from the entities that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. Huntington is not required and does not c
urrently 
intend to provide any additional financial sup
port to the trusts. Investors
 and creditors only have 
recourse to the assets held
 by the 
trusts.  The interest Huntington holds in the VIEs relates to servicing rights which are included within accrued income and oth
er assets 
of Huntington™s Consolidated Ba
lance Sheets.  The maximum exposure to loss is 
equal to the carrying value of the servicing asse
t. 
 
TOWER HILL SECURITIES, INC. 
 
In 2010, we transferred approximately $92.1 mill
ion of municipal securities, 
$86.0 million in Huntingt
on Preferred Capital, Inc
. 
(Real Estate Investment Trust) Class E Preferred Stock and cash of
 $6.1 million to Tower Hill S
ecurities, Inc. in exchange for 
$184.1 
million of Common and Preferred Stock of Towe
r Hill Securities, Inc. The municipal secur
ities and the REIT Shares will be used 
to 
satisfy $65.0 million of mandatorily redeemable securities issued by
 Tower Hill Securities, Inc. and are not available to satis
fy the 
general debts and obligations of 
Huntington or any consolidated affiliates. The tran
sfer was recorded as a secured financing.  
Interests 
held by Huntington consist of municipal 
securities within available for sale and other securities and Series B preferred securi
ties 
within other long term debt of Huntington™
s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The maximum 
exposure to loss is equal to the carrying
 
value of the municipal securities.
 
  
184 
 
TRUST-PREFERRED SECURITIES 
 
Huntington has certain wholly-owned trusts whose assets, liab
ilities, equity, income, and expe
nses are not included within 
Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Statemen
ts.  These trusts have been formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust-preferred 
securities, from which the proceeds are then invested in Huntington junior subordinated debentures, which are reflected in 
Huntington™s Consolidated Balance Sheet as subordinated notes.  The trust securities are the obligations of the trusts, and as 
such, are 
not consolidated within Huntington™s Consolidated Financial Stat
ements.  A list of trust-preferred securities outstanding at De
cember 
31, 2012 follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
Principal amount of
 
Investment in 
 
 
 
subordinated note/
 
unconsolidated 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
Rate
debenture issued to trust (1)
subsidiary 
Huntington Capital I
1.01 
%
(
2)
 
 
$
 
 111,816 
 
 
$
 6,186 
 
Huntington Capital II 
0.93 
(3)
 
 
 54,593 
 
 
 3,093 
 
Sky Financial Capital Trust III 
1.71 
(4)
 
 
 72,165 
 
 
 2,165 
 
Sky Financial Capital Trust IV 
1.76 
(4)
 
 
 74,320 
 
 
 2,320 
 
Total
 
$
 312,894 
$
 13,764 
(1)
 
Represents the principal amount of debentures issued 
to each trust, including unamortized original issue 
discount. 
(2) 
Variable effective rate at December 31, 
2012, based on three month LIBOR + 0.70. 
  
(3) 
Variable effective rate at December 31, 
2012, based on three month LIBOR + 0.625. 
  
(4) 
Variable effective rate at December 31, 
2012, based on three month LIBOR + 1.40. 
  
 
Each issue of the junior subordinated debent
ures has an interest rate equal to the 
corresponding trust securities distribution 
rate.  
Huntington has the right to de
fer payment of interest on the debentures at any 
time, or from time-to-tim
e for a period not exce
eding 
five years provided that no exte
nsion period may extend beyond th
e stated maturity of the relate
d debentures.  During any such 
extension period, distributions 
to the trust securities will also be deferred and 
Huntington™s ability to pay dividends on its 
common 
stock will be restricted.  Periodic cash payments and payments 
upon liquidation or redemption w
ith respect to trust securities 
are 
guaranteed by Huntington to the ex
tent of funds held by the trusts.  The guarantee
 ranks subordinate and junior in right of pay
ment to 
all indebtedness of the Company to the same extent as the junior subordinated debt.  The guarantee does not place a limitation 
on the 
amount of additional indebtedness that may be incurred by Huntington. 
 
During 2012, Huntington
 redeemed $230.3 million of trust preferred secur
ities at the redemption price (as a percentage of the 
liquidation amount) plus accrued 
and unpaid distributions to th
e redemption date. These redemptions were funded from our existi
ng 
cash and resulted in a net gain of $0.8 million. 
 
LOW INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT PARTNERSHIPS 
 
Huntington makes certain equity investment
s in various limited partners
hips that sponsor afford
able housing projects utilizing 
the 
Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) pursuant to Section 42 of 
the Internal Revenue Code.  The purpose of these investments is
 
to achieve a satisfactory ret
urn on capital, to facilitate the sale 
of additional affordable housin
g product offerings, and to 
assist in 
achieving goals associated w
ith the Community Reinvestment Act.  The primary 
activities of the limited partnerships include the
 
identification, development, and 
operation of multi family housing that is leas
ed to qualifying residential tenants.  Generally
, these 
types of investments are funded through 
a combination of debt and equity.   
Huntington is a limited partner in each Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnership.  A separate unrelated third party is the 
general partner.  Each limited partnership is managed by the ge
neral partner, who exercises full 
and exclusive control over the
 affairs 
of the limited partnership.  The general partner has all the right
s, powers and authority granted 
or permitted to be granted to
 a general 
partner of a limited partnership under the Ohio Revised Uniform 
Limited Partnership Act.  Duties entrusted to the general partn
er of 
each limited partnership include, but are not limited to: investment in operating companies, company expenditures, investment o
f 
excess funds, borrowing fu
nds, employment of agents, disp
osition of fund propert
y, prepayment and refinancing of liabilities, v
otes 
and consents, contract authority, disbursem
ent of funds, accounting methods, tax electi
ons, bank accounts, insurance, litigatio
n, cash 
reserve, and use of working capital reserve funds.  Except for limited rights granted to consent to certain transactions, the l
imited 
partner(s) may not participate in the operation, management, or
 control of the limited partnership's business, transact any bus
iness in 
the limited partnership's name or have any 
power to sign documents for or otherwise bi
nd the limited partnership.  In addition,
 the 
general partner may only be removed by the limited partner(s) in 
the event the general partner fails to comply with the terms o
f the 
agreement and/or is neglig
ent in performing its duties. 
185 
 
Huntington believes the general partner of each limited partners
hip has the power to direct th
e activities which most significa
ntly 
affect their performance of each partnership, therefore, Hunting
ton has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of an
y LIHTC 
partnership.  Huntington uses the equity 
or effective yield method to 
account for its investments 
in these entities.  These inv
estments 
are included in accrued income and other assets.  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Huntington has commitments of $391.9 million 
and $376.1 million, respectively, of which $380.0 million and $322.5 million, respectively, were funded.  The unfunded portion 
is 
included in accrued expenses and other liabilities. 
 
22.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
 
Commitments to extend credit
 
 
In the ordinary course of business, Hun
tington makes various commitments to exte
nd credit that are not reflected in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The contract amounts of these financial agreements at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 
2011, were as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
At December 31,  
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
 
2011 
Contract amount represents credit risk
 
 
 
 
 
Commitments to extend credit  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
$
 
 9,209,094 
$
 8,006,068 
 
 
Consumer 
 
 6,189,447 
 5,903,840 
 
 
Commercial real estate 
 
 797,605 
 609,791 
 
Standby letters of credit 
 
 514,705 
 585,791 
 
Commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration da
tes, are variable-rate, and cont
ain clauses that permit Huntingt
on 
to terminate or otherwise renegotiate the c
ontracts in the event of a significant de
terioration in the customer™s credit qualit
y. These 
arrangements normally require the payment of a fee by the cu
stomer, the pricing of which is 
based on prevailing market conditio
ns, 
credit quality, probability of funding, and ot
her relevant factors. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire with
out 
being drawn upon, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash requirements. The interest rate risk arisi
ng from 
these financial instruments is insign
ificant as a result of their predominan
tly short-term, variable-rate nature. 
 
Standby letters-of-credit are cond
itional commitments issued to 
guarantee the performance of a borrower to a third party. These
 
guarantees are primarily issued to support 
public and private borrowing arrangements, 
including commercial paper, bond financin
g, 
and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature w
ithin two years. The carrying am
ount of deferred revenue associate
d 
with these guarantees was $1.4 million and $1.6 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 
Through the Company™s credit process, Hun
tington monitors the credit 
risks of outstanding standb
y letters-of-credit. When it is
 
probable that a standby letter-of-credit will be drawn and not repa
id in full, losses are recognized in the provision for credi
t losses.  At 
December 31, 2012, Huntington had $515 million of standby letters-of-credit outstanding, of which 80% were collateralized.   
Included in this $515 million total are letters
-of-credit issued by the Bank
 that support securities that
 were issued by custom
ers and 
remarketed by The Huntington Investment Company, the Company™s broker-dealer subsidiary.   
 
Huntington uses an internal loan
 grading system to assess an estimate of loss on
 its loan and lease port
folio.  The same loan 
grading system is used to help monitor credit risk associated 
with standby letters-of-credit.  Under this risk rating system as
 of 
December 31, 2012, approximately $93 million of the standby letters-of-credit were rated strong with sufficient asset quality, 
liquidity, and good debt capacity and cove
rage, approximately $393 million were rated average with acceptable asset quality, 
liquidity, and modest debt capacity; and approximately $29 million we
re rated substa
ndard with nega
tive financial trends, struc
tural 
weaknesses, operating difficulties, and higher leverage. 
 
Commercial letters-of-credit represent short-ter
m, self-liquidating instruments that fa
cilitate customer trade transactions and
 
generally have maturities of no longer th
an 90 days. The goods or cargo being trad
ed normally secures 
these instruments. 
 
Commitments to sell loans  
 
Huntington enters into forward contracts relating to its mortga
ge banking business to hedge the exposures from commitments to 
make new residential mortgage loans with existing customers and from mortgage loans classified as loans held for sale. At Decem
ber 
31, 2012 and 2011, Huntingt
on had commitments to sell 
residential real estate loans of $8
49.8 million and $629.0 million, 
respectively. These contracts mature in less than one year. 
 
186 
 
Litigation
 
 
The nature of Huntington™s business ordinarily results in a 
certain amount of claims, litigation, investigations, and legal and
 
administrative cases and proceedings, all of which are considered in
cidental to the normal conduct of
 business.  When the Compa
ny 
determines it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted
, it vigorously defends itself. Th
e Company will consider settleme
nt of 
cases when, in Management™s judgment, it 
is in the best interests 
of both the Company and its
 shareholders to do so. 
 
On at least a quarterly basis, Huntington assesses its liabilities 
and contingencies in connection 
with outstanding legal proce
edings 
utilizing the latest information availab
le.  For matters where it is probable, the 
Company will incur a lo
ss and the amount can
 be 
reasonably estimated, Huntington establishes an accrual for the loss.  Once established, the accrual is adjusted as appropriate
 to reflect 
any relevant developments.  For matters where a loss is not prob
able or the amount of the loss cannot be estimated, no accrual 
is 
established. 
 
In certain cases, exposure to loss exists in excess of the accrual to the extent such loss is reasonably possible, but not prob
able.  
Management believes an estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses, in excess of amounts accrued, for current
 legal 
proceedings is from $0 to approximately $130.0 million at December 31, 2012. For certain other cases, Management cannot 
reasonably estimate the possible loss at th
is time. Any estimate involves significant j
udgment, given the varying stages of the
 
proceedings (including the fact
 that many of them are currently in preliminary 
stages), the existence of 
multiple defendants in
 several 
of the current proceedings whose 
share of liability has yet to be determined, th
e numerous unresolved issues in many of the 
proceedings, and the inherent uncertainty of
 the various potential outcomes of such pr
oceedings. Accordingly, Management™s esti
mate 
will change from time-to-time, and actual losses ma
y be more or less than the current estimate.  
 
While the final outcome of legal proceedings is inherently uncertain, based on information currently available, advice of couns
el, 
and available insurance coverage, Management believes that the 
amount it has already accrued is adequate and any incremental 
liability arising from the Company™s legal proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial 
position as a whole.  However, in the ev
ent of unexpected future develo
pments, it is possible that 
the ultimate resolution of t
hese 
matters, if unfavorable, may be material to the Company™s 
consolidated financial positio
n in a particular period. 
 
The following is a discussion of cer
tain legal matters and events occurring 
through the date of this filing:  
The Bank is a defendant in three lawsu
its, which collectively may be material, aris
ing from its commercial lending, depository,
 
and equipment leasing relationships with Cyberco Holdings, Inc. 
(Cyberco), based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. In November 2004, t
he 
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the IRS r
aided the Cyberco facilities and 
Cyberco's operations ceased. An equipment leasing
 
fraud was uncovered, whereby Cyberco sou
ght financing from equipment lessors and 
financial institutions, including the Bank, 
allegedly to purchase computer equipment from Teleservices G
roup, Inc. (Teleservices). Cyberco created fraudulent documentation
 to 
close the financing transactions while, in fact, no computer equi
pment was ever purchased or leased from Teleservices which pro
ved 
to be a shell corporation.   
On June 22, 2007, a complaint in
 the United States District Cour
t for the Western District of Michigan (District Court) was fil
ed 
by El Camino Resources, Ltd, ePlus Group, 
Inc., and Bank Midwest, N.A., all of whom 
had lending relationships with Cyberco, 
against the Bank, alleging that Cyberco defr
auded plaintiffs and converted plaintiffs' 
property through various means in connec
tion 
with the equipment leasing scheme and alleges that the Bank 
aided and abetted Cyberco in committing the alleged fraud and 
conversion. The complaint further 
alleges that the Bank's actions en
title one of the plaintiffs to 
recover $1.9 million from th
e Bank as a 
form of unjust enrichment. In addition, 
plaintiffs claimed direct damages of approxim
ately $32.0 million and additional consequ
ential 
damages in excess of $20.0 million. On July 1,
 2010, the District Court 
issued an Opinion and Orde
r adopting in full a federal 
magistrate's recommendation 
for summary judgment in favor 
of the Bank on all claims except the unjust enrichment claim, and a 
partial summary judgment was 
entered on July 1, 
2010. The Bank reques
ted an opportunity to file a 
motion for summary judgment o
n 
the remaining unjust enrichment 
claim against it.  A motion for reconsideration f
iled by the plaintiffs regarding the partial s
ummary 
judgment was denied.  Subsequently, in 
connection with a pre-motion conference, th
e District Court, in lieu of allowing the Ban
k to 
file a summary judgment motion, ordered th
e case to be tried in April 2012, in a on
e day bench trial, and entered a scheduling 
order 
governing all pretrial conduct.  On Februa
ry 6, 2012, the District Court dismissed 
the remaining count for 
unjust enrichment fo
llowing 
a finding by the bankruptcy cour
t that the plaintiff must pursue its rights, if
 any, with respect to 
that count in a bankruptcy
 court.  The 
plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal on Marc
h 2, 2012, appealing the District Court™s ju
dgment against them on the aiding and ab
etting 
and conversion claims.  Oral arguments before the Sixt
h Circuit Court of Appeals were held January 24, 2013. 
  
187 
 
The Bank is also involved 
with the Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
proceedings of both Cyb
erco, filed on Dece
mber 9, 2004, and 
Teleservices, filed on January 21, 2005. The 
Cyberco bankruptcy trustee commenced an 
adversary proceeding against the Bank on 
December 8, 2006, seeking over $70.0 million he alleges was transferred to the Bank. The Bank responded with a motion to dismis
s 
and all but the preference claims were dism
issed on January 29, 2008. The Cyberco bank
ruptcy trustee alleges preferential trans
fers in 
the amount of approximately $1.2 million. The Bankruptcy Court ordered the case to be tried in July 2012, and entered a pretria
l order 
governing all pretrial conduct.  The Bank
 has filed a motion for summary judgment ba
sed on the Cyberco trustee seeking recovery
 in 
connection with the same alleged transfers as the Teleservices trus
tee in the case described below.  The Bankruptcy Court grant
ed the 
motion in principal part and the parties stipulated to a 
full dismissal which was enter
ed on June 19, 2012.   
The Teleservices bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary proceeding against the Bank on January 19, 2007, seeking to avoid and 
recover alleged transfers that occurred in two ways: (1) checks ma
de payable to the Bank to be applied to Cyberco's indebtednes
s to 
the Bank, and (2) deposits into 
Cyberco's bank accounts with the 
Bank. A trial was held as to only the Bank™s defenses.  Subseq
uently, 
the trustee filed a summary judgment motion on her affirmativ
e case, alleging the fraudulent tr
ansfers to the Bank totaled 
approximately $73.0 million and seeking judgment in that amount (which includes the $1.2 million alleged to be preferential tra
nsfers 
by the Cyberco bankruptcy trustee). On Marc
h 17, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court issued an
 Opinion determining 
the alleged 
transfers
 
made to the Bank were not received in good
 faith from the time period 
of April 30, 2004, through November 2004, and that the Ba
nk 
had failed to show a lack of knowledge of the avoidability of 
the alleged transfers from Septem
ber 2003, through April 30, 2004
.  The 
trustee then filed an amended motion for summary judgment on he
r affirmative case and a hearing was held on July 1, 2011.   
On March 30, 2012, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Opinion on the trustee™s motion determining the Bank was the initial 
transferee of the checks made payable to it and was a subsequent transferee of all deposits into Cyberco™s accounts.  The Bankr
uptcy 
Court ruled Cyberco™s deposits we
re themselves transfers to the 
Bank under the Bankruptcy Code, and the Bank was liable for bot
h 
the checks and the deposits, to
taling approximately $73.0 million.  The Bankruptcy
 Court ruled the Bank may be entitled to a cr
edit of 
approximately $4.0 million for the Cyberco trustee™s recoveries in preference actions filed against third parties that received
 payments 
from Cyberco within 
90 days preceding Cyberco™s bankruptcy.  Lastly, the Ba
nkruptcy Court ruled that 
it will award prejudgment 
interest to the Teleservices trustee at a rate to be determined.  A 
trial was held on these remaini
ng issues on April 30, 2012,
 and the 
Court gave a bench opinion on July 23, 2012. In that opinion, the Court denied the Bank the $4.0 million credit, but ruled 
approximately $0.9 million in de
posits were either double-counted or were ou
tside the timeframe in which the Teleservices trust
ee can 
recover. Therefore, the Bankruptcy Court™s 
recommended award will be reduced by this 
$0.9 million. Furt
her, the Bankruptcy Cour
t 
ruled the interest rate sp
ecified in the federal statute governing post-judg
ment interest, which is based on treasury bill rate
s, will be the 
rate of interest for determining prejudgment inter
est.  The rulings of the Bankruptcy C
ourt in its March 2011 and March 2012 
opinions, as well as its July 23, 2012, be
nch opinion, will not be reduced to judgme
nt by the Bankruptcy 
Court.  Rather, the 
Bankruptcy Court has delivered 
a report and recommendation to the District Co
urt for the Western District of Michigan, 
recommending a judgment be entered in the 
principal amount of $71.8 million, plus in
terest through July 27, 2012, in the amount
 of 
$8.8 million.  The District Court will conduct a 
de novo
 review of the fact findings and legal conclusions in the Bankruptcy Court™s 
opinions. 
 
In the pending bankruptcy cases of Cyberco and Teleservices, th
e Bank moved to substantively consolidate the two bankruptcy 
estates, principally on the ground that Teleser
vices was the alter ego and a mere instru
mentality of Cyberco at all times. On J
uly 2, 
2010, the Bankruptcy Court issued an Opin
ion denying the Bank's motions for substan
tive consolidation of the two bankruptcy 
estates. The Bank has appealed this 
ruling and the appeal is pending. 
On January 17, 2012, the Compan
y was named a defendant 
in a putative class action filed on beha
lf of all 88 counties in Ohio 
against MERSCORP, Inc. and numerous other financial institutions 
that participate in the mortgage electronic registration syste
m 
(MERS).  The complaint alleges that recording of mortgages and assignments thereof is mandatory under Ohio law and seeks a 
declaratory judgment that the defendants are requ
ired to record every mortgage and assi
gnment on real property located in Ohio 
and 
pay the attendant statutory recording fees. The complaint also seek
s damages, attorneys' fees and 
costs.  Althoug
h Huntington h
as not 
been named as a defendant in the other 
cases, similar litigation has been
 initiated against MERSCORP, Inc. and other financial 
institutions in other jurisd
ictions throughout the country. 
Commitments Under Capital and Operating Lease Obligations  
 
At December 31, 2012, Huntington and its subsidiaries were obligated under noncancelable leases for land, buildings, and 
equipment. Many of these leases contain renewal options and certa
in leases provide options to purc
hase the leased property duri
ng or 
at the expiration of the lease period at 
specified prices. Some leases contain escalatio
n clauses calling for rentals to be adj
usted for 
increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses or pr
oportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other pri
ce 
indices.  
  
 
 
188 
 
The future minimum rental payments required under operating 
leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in 
excess of one year as of December 31, 2012, were as follows: $4
7.1 million in 2013, $45.1 million 
in 2014, $42.4 million in 201
5, 
$38.5 million in 2016, $35.5 million in 2017, and $208.6 million thereafter.  At December 31, 2012, total minimum lease payment
s 
have not been reduced by minimum sublease rentals of $13.0 million due in the future under noncancelable subleases.  At Decembe
r 
31, 2012, the future minimum sublease rental payments that Huntington 
expects to receive were as fo
llows: $5.4 mil
lion in 2013,
 $3.8 
million in 2014, $2.3 million in 2015, $0.8 million in 2016, $0.2 million in 2017, and $0.5 million thereafter.  The rental exp
ense for 
all operating leases was $54.7 million, $53.5 million, and $50.3 mi
llion for 2012, 2011, and 2010, 
respectively. Huntington had
 no 
material obligations under capital leases. 
 
23.  OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS 
 
Huntington and its bank subsidiary, The 
Huntington National Bank (the Bank), ar
e subject to various regulatory capital 
requirements administered by federal 
and state banking agencies. These requireme
nts involve qualitative ju
dgments and quantitat
ive 
measures of assets, liabilities, capital amounts, and certain off-
balance sheet items as calculated
 under regulatory accounting
 practices. 
Failure to meet minimum capital requiremen
ts can initiate certain actions by regulators th
at, if undertaken, could have a mater
ial 
adverse effect on Hunti
ngton™s and the Bank™s financial statements. Applicab
le capital adequacy guidelines require minimum rati
os of 
4.00% for Tier 1 risk-based Capital, 8.00% for total risk-based Ca
pital, and 4.00% for Tier 1 leverage capital. To be considere
d well-
capitalized under the regulatory framework fo
r prompt corrective action, the ratios must
 be at least 6.00%, 
10.00%, and 5.00%, 
respectively.   
 
As of December 31, 2012, Huntington and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements and had regulatory capital ratios in 
excess of the levels established for well-capitalized institutions.  The period-end capital amounts and capital ratios of Hunti
ngton and 
the Bank are as follows: 
 
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital
Total risk-based capital 
Tier 1 leverage capital 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
2011 
 
2012  
2011 
 
2012  
2011 
Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amount 
$
 
 5,741,410 
$
 5,556,829 
 
$
 6,928,339 
$
 6,778,398 
 
$
 5,741,410 
$
 5,556,829 
Ratio 
 
 12.02 
%
 12.11 
%
 
 
 14.50 
%
 14.77 
% 
 
 
 10.36 
%
 10.28 
The Huntington National Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amount 
$
 
 5,003,247 
$
 4,245,101 
 
$
 6,093,620 
$
 5,752,723 
 
$
 5,003,247 
$
 4,245,101 
Ratio
 
 10.49 
%
 9.30 
%
 
 
 12.78 
%
 12.60 
% 
 
 
 9.05 
%
 7.89 
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital consists of total equity plus qualif
ying capital securities and minority
 interest, excluding unrealiz
ed gains 
and losses accumulated in OCI, and non-
qualifying intangible and servicing assets. 
Total risk-based capital 
is the sum of Tier 
1 risk-
based capital and qualifying 
subordinated notes and allowable allowances for 
credit losses (limited to 
1.25% of total risk-weig
hted 
assets). Tier 1 leverage capital is equal to Tier 1 capital. Both
 Tier 1 capital and total ris
k-based capital ratios are derive
d by dividing 
the respective capital amounts by net risk-weighted assets, which ar
e calculated as prescribed by regulatory agencies. The Tier
 1 
leverage capital ratio is calculated by dividing the Tier 1 ca
pital amount by average total assets
 for the fourth quarter of 20
12 and 
2011, less non-qualifying intangibl
es and other adjustments.  
 
Huntington has the ability to 
provide additional cap
ital to the Bank to main
tain the Bank™s risk-b
ased capital ratios at levels
 at 
which would be considered well-capitalized. 
 
The FRB requires bank holding co
mpanies with assets over $50.0 billion to subm
it capital plans annually.  Per the FRB™s rule, 
our submission included a comprehensive cap
ital plan supported by an assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a 
given 
planning time period under a range of expected and stress scenar
ios.  We participated in the F
RB™s CapPR process and made our 2
012 
capital plan submission in January 2012.  On March 14, 2012, we 
announced that the FRB had completed its review of our 2012 
capital plan submission and did no
t object to our proposed capital actions.  The pl
anned actions included 
the potential repurch
ase of up 
to $182.0 million of common stock and a con
tinuation of our current common dividend thro
ugh the 2013 first quarter.  We submitt
ed 
our 2013 Capital Plan to the Federal 
Reserve on January 7, 2013, in accord
ance with the F
RB™s requirements. 
 
Huntington and its subsidiaries are also su
bject to various regulatory requirements that impose restrictions on cash, debt, and
 
dividends. The Bank is required to main
tain cash reserves based on the level of cer
tain of its deposits. This reserve requireme
nt may 
be met by holding cash in banking offices 
or on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank. 
During 2012 and 2011, the average balances
 of 
these deposits were 
$0.4 billion an
d $0.8 billion,
 respectively.  
 
189 
 
Under current Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank is limited as
 to the amount and type of loans it may make to the parent 
company and nonbank subsidiaries. At Decembe
r 31, 2012, the Bank could lend $609.4 
million to a single affiliate, subject to th
e 
qualifying collateral requirements defined in the regulations.  
 
Dividends from the Bank are one of the 
major sources of funds for the Company. Thes
e funds aid the Company in the payment of 
dividends to shareholders, expenses, and ot
her obligations. Payment of dividends to the 
parent company is subject to various le
gal and 
regulatory limitations. Regulatory approval 
is required prior to the declaration of an
y dividends in excess of undivided profit
s or if the 
total of all dividends declared in a calendar 
year would exceed the total of
 net income for the current
 year combined with reta
ined net 
income for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus or common stock.  At December 31, 2012, the Bank cou
ld 
not have declared and paid additional dividends to the Company without regulatory approval due to the deficit position of the B
ank™s 
undivided profits.   
190 
 
24.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 
 
The parent company condensed financial statements, which 
include transactions with su
bsidiaries, are as follows: 
 
Balance Sheets
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
2011 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents  (1) 
$
 
 921,471 
$
 917,954 
Due from The Huntington National Bank (2) 
 
 207,414 
 616,565 
Due from non-bank subsidiaries 
 
 78,006 
 188,732 
Investment in The Huntington National Bank 
 
 4,754,886 
 4,073,722 
Investment in non-bank subsidiaries 
 
 774,055 
 759,532 
Accrued interest receivable and other assets 
 
 131,358 
 139,076 
Total assets 
$
 
 6,867,190 
$
 6,695,581 
Liabilities and shareholders' equity 
 
 
Long-term borrowings 
$
 
 662,894 
$
 899,779 
Dividends payable, accrued e
xpenses, and other liabilities 
 
 414,085 
 377,702 
Total liabilities 
 
 1,076,979 
 1,277,481 
Shareholders' equity (3) 
 
 5,790,211 
 5,418,100 
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 
$
 
 6,867,190 
$
 6,695,581 
(1) Includes restricted cash of 
$125,000 at D
ecember 31, 2011. 
 
 
 
(2) Related to subordinated notes described in Note 12. 
 
 
 
(3) See Consolidated Statements of 
Changes in Shareholders™ Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
Statements of Income
 
Year Ended December 31,
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010  
Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividends from 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
N
on-bank subsidiaries 
$
 36,450 
$ 
 68,491 
$
 33,000 
 
Interest from 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Huntington National Bank 
 
 38,617 
 
 80,024 
 
 82,749 
 
 
N
on-bank subsidiaries 
 
 5,420 
 
 8,741 
 
 12,185 
 
Other 
 
 1,409 
 
 1,231 
 
 2,987 
Total income 
 
 81,896 
 
 158,487 
 
 130,921 
Expense 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Personnel costs 
 
 42,745 
 
 37,630 
 
 30,334 
 
Interest on borrowings 
 
 28,926 
 
 35,295 
 
 23,765 
 
Other 
 
 35,415 
 
 37,122 
 
 49,019 
Total expense 
 
 107,086 
 
 110,047 
 
 103,118 
Income (loss) before income 
taxes and equity in undistribut
ed net income of subsidiaries 
 
 (25,190)
 
 48,440 
 
 27,803 
Provision (benefit)
 for income taxes 
 
 (30,761)
 
 (10,707)
 
 48,505 
Income (loss) before equity in undi
stributed net income
 of subsidiaries 
 
 5,571 
 
 59,147 
 
 
 (20,702)
Increase (decrease) in undistributed net income (loss) of: 
 
 
 
  
 
 
The Huntington National Bank 
 
 645,151 
 
 527,418 
 
 344,961 
 
N
on-bank subsidiaries 
 
 (9,700)
 
 (43,952)
 
 (11,912)
N
et income 
$
 641,022 
$ 
 542,613 
$
 312,347 
Other comprehensive income (loss) (1) 
 
 22,946 
 
 23,733 
 
 (36,262)
Comprehensive income 
$
 663,968 
$ 
 566,346 
$
 276,085 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) See Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Inc
ome for other comprehensive income(loss) detail. 
  
191 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statements of Cash Flows
 
Year Ended December 31,   
(dollar amounts in thousands)
2012  
 
2011  
 
2010  
Operating activities 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income 
$
 641,022 
$ 
 542,613 
$
 312,347 
 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
 
 
 
 
 
provided by 
operating activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity in undistributed ne
t income of subsidiaries 
 (688,149)
 
 (567,566)
 (351,049)
 
 
 
Depreciation and amortization 
 265 
 
 566 
 685 
 
 
 
Other, net 
 50,714 
 
 30,980 
 (74,802)
N
et cash (used for) provided by operating activities 
 3,852 
 
 6,593 
 (112,819)
Investing activities 
 
 
 
 
Repayments from (advances to) subsidiaries 
 (36,126)
 
 (39,586)
 129,081 
 
Advances to subsidiaries 
 591,923 
 
 485,863 
 (425,600)
N
et cash (used for) provided by investing activities 
 555,797 
 
 446,277 
 (296,519)
Financing activities 
 
 
 
 
Proceeds from issuance of long-term borrowings 
 ---
 
 ---
 297,375 
 
Payment of borrowings 
 (236,885)
 
 (5,100)
 (1,191)
 
Dividends paid on stock 
 (169,335)
 
 (92,404)
 (136,499)
 
Payment to repurchase preferred stock 
 ---
 
 ---
 (1,398,071)
 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
 ---
 
 ---
 886,172 
 
Repurchases of common stock 
 (148,881)
 
 ---
 ---
 
Redemption of Warrant to the Treasury 
 ---
 
 (49,100)
 ---
 
Other, net 
 (1,031)
 
 (3,479)
 180 
N
et cash provided by (used for) financing activities 
 (556,132)
 
 (150,083)
 (352,034)
Change in cash and cash equivalents 
 3,517 
 
 302,787 
 (761,372)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 917,954 
 
 615,167 
 1,376,539 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$
 921,471 
$ 
 917,954 
$
 615,167 
Supplemental disclosure: 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest paid 
$
 28,926 
$ 
 35,295 
 
$
 23,765 
192 
 
25.  SEGMENT REPORTING 
 
 
We have four major business segments: Retail and Business Ba
nking, Regional and Commercial Banking, Automobile Finance 
and Commercial Real Estate, and Wealth Adviso
rs, Government Finance, and Home Lending
.  A Treasury / Other function includes 
our insurance business and other unallocated
 assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense. 
 
Segment results are determined based upon the Company™s mana
gement reporting system, which
 assigns balance sheet and 
income statement items to each of the business segments.  The process is designed around the Company™s organizational and 
management structure and, accordingly, the results derived are not
 necessarily comparable with similar information published by
 other 
financial institutions. A description of each segment a
nd table of financial results is presented below. 
 
Retail and Business Banking
: The Retail and Business Banking segment provides a 
wide array of financial products and services to 
consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, 
certificates of deposit, consumer loans, and small business loans 
and leases.  Other financial services available to consumer a
nd small 
business customers include investments, insurance services, intere
st rate risk protection produc
ts, foreign exchange hedging, a
nd 
treasury management services.  Huntington serves customers primari
ly through our network of trad
itional branches 
in Ohio, Michi
gan, 
Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kent
ucky.  Huntington also has branches loca
ted in grocery stores in Ohio and Michiga
n.  
In addition to our extensive branch network, customers can access Huntington through online banking, mobile banking, telephone 
banking, and over 1,350 ATMs. 
 
Huntington established a ﬁFair Playﬂ bank
ing philosophy and built a reputation for meeting
 the banking needs 
of consumers in a 
manner which makes them feel supported and 
appreciated. Huntington believes customers 
are recognizing this and other efforts as
 key 
differentiators and it is earning us more customers and deeper relationships.  
 
Business Banking is a dynamic and growin
g part of our business and we are committed
 to being the bank of choice for small 
businesses in our markets. Business Banking is defined as companie
s with revenues up to $25 million and consists of approximate
ly 
163,000 businesses.  Huntington continues to
 develop products and services that are de
signed specifically to meet the needs of 
small 
business.  Huntington continues to look for ways to 
help companies find solutio
ns to their capital needs. 
 
Regional and Commercial Banking:
 This segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market and large 
corporate customers base located primarily within our eleven regional commercial banking markets.  Products and services are 
delivered through a relationship banking model and include commer
cial lending, as well as depository and liquidity management 
products.  Dedicated teams collaborate with our relationship bank
ers to deliver complex and customized treasury management 
solutions, equipment and technology leasing, international services
, capital markets services such
 as interest rate risk protec
tion 
products, foreign exchange hedging and sales, trading of securities, mezzanine investment capabilities, and employee benefit 
programs (insurance, 401(
k)).  The Commercial Banking team specializes in servin
g a number of industry segments such as not-for
-
profit organizations, health-care entities, and 
large publicly traded companies.   
 
Automobile Finance and Commercial Real Estate
: This segment provides lending and other banking products and services to 
customers outside of our normal retail and commercial banking segmen
ts.  Our products and services include financing for the 
purchase of automobiles by customers at au
tomotive dealerships, financing the acquis
ition of new and used vehicle inventory of 
automotive dealerships, and financing fo
r land, buildings, and other commercial real estate owned or constructed by real estate
 
developers, automobile dealerships, or other customers with real
 estate project financing needs.
  Products and services are del
ivered 
through highly specialized relationship-focu
sed bankers and product partners.  Huntington creates well-defined relationship pla
ns 
which identify needs where solutions are developed and customer commitments are obtained.   
 
The Automotive Finance team 
services automobile dealerships, its owners, an
d consumers buying automobiles through these 
dealerships. Huntington has prov
ided new and used automobile financing and dealer
 services throughout the Midwest since the ear
ly 
1950s. This consistency in the ma
rket and our focus on working with
 strong dealerships, has allowed us to expand into selected 
markets outside of the Midwest an
d to actively deepen relationships 
while building a strong reputation.  
 
The Commercial Real Estate team serves real estate developers, REITs, and other customers with lending needs that are secured 
by commercial properties.  Most of our customer
s are located within our footprint. 
 
Wealth Advisors, Government Finance, and Home Lending: 
This segment consists of our wealth management, government 
banking, and home lending businesses. In wealth management, Hun
tington provides financial servi
ces to high net worth clients in
 our 
primary banking markets and Florida. Huntingt
on provides these services through a unifie
d sales team, which consists of private
 
bankers, trust officers, and investment advisors. Aligned with th
e eleven regional commercial banking markets, this coordinated
 
service model delivers products and services 
directly and through the other segment pr
oduct partners.  A fundamental point of 
differentiation is our commitment to be in 
the market, working closely with clients an
d their other advisors to identify needs,
 offer 
solutions and provide ongoing advice in
 an optimal client experience. 
193 
 
 
The Government Finance Group provides financial products and se
rvices to government and ot
her public sector entities in our 
primary banking markets. A locally based team
 of relationship managers works with clien
ts to meet their trust, lending, and tre
asury 
management needs. 
 
Home Lending originates and services consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary 
banking markets. Consumer and mortgage lending products are 
primarily distributed through 
the Retail and Business Banking 
segment, as well as through commissioned loan
 originators. Closely aligned, our Commun
ity Development group serves an important
 
role as it focuses on deliverin
g on our commitment to the co
mmunities Huntington serves. 
 
The segment also includes the related businesses of investment 
management, investment servicing
, custody, corporate trust, and 
retirement plan services. Huntington Asset 
Advisors provides investment
 management services throug
h a variety of internal and 
external channels, including advising the Huntington Funds, our 
proprietary family of mutual fund
s and Huntington Strategy Shar
es, 
our actively-managed exchange-traded funds.  Huntington Asset Services offers administrative and operational support to fund 
complexes, including fund accounting, transfer agency, administra
tion, and distribution services.  Our retirement plan services
 
business offers fully bundled 
and third party distribution of a variety 
of qualified and non-qualif
ied plan solutions. 
 
Treasury / Other function includes our 
insurance brokerage business, which specializes in commercial property and casualty, 
employee benefits, personal lines, life and 
disability and specialty lines of insurance.
  Huntington also provides brokerage an
d agency 
services for residential and commercial title ins
urance and excess and surplus product lines
 of insurance.  As
 an agent and bro
ker we 
do not assume underwriting risks; instead
 we provide our customers with quality, noni
nvestment insurance contracts.  The Treasu
ry / 
Other function also includes technology
 and operations, other unallocated ass
ets, liabilities, revenue
, and expense. 
 
Listed below is certain operating basis financial information reconciled to Huntington™s 2012, 2011, and 2010 reported results 
by 
business segment: 
 
 
Retail &
 
Regional &
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statements 
 
Business
 
Commercial
 
 
Treasury / 
Huntington 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
Banking
 
Banking 
AFCRE 
WGH 
Other 
Consolidated
2012  
 
N
et interest income
$
870,146 
$
273,869 
$
356,442
$
192,681 
$
17,386 
$
1,710,524 
Provision for credit losses
 
136,061 
10,689 
(22,962)
23,600 
---
147,388 
N
oninterest income
 
385,498 
138,454 
84,619
351,057 
138,229 
1,097,857 
N
oninterest expense
 
982,378 
203,000 
154,480
376,239 
119,779 
1,835,876 
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes
 
48,022 
69,522 
108,340
50,365 
(92,154)
184,095 
N
et income
$
89,183 
$
129,112 
$
201,203
$
93,534 
$
127,990 
$
641,022 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et interest income 
$
932,385 
$
244,392 
 
$
364,449
$
199,536 
$
(111,592)
$
1,629,170 
Provision for credit losses 
 
120,018 
 
11,013 
 
 
(8,939)
 
51,967 
 
---
 
174,059 
N
oninterest income 
 
405,265 
 
127,315 
 
 
77,623
 
248,764 
 
121,656 
 
980,623 
N
oninterest expense 
 
 947,794 
 
191,701 
 
 
164,626
 
356,513 
 
67,866 
 
1,728,500 
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes 
 
94,443 
 
59,147 
 
 
100,234
 
13,937 
 
(103,140)
 
164,621 
N
et income  
$
175,395 
$
109,846 
 
$
186,151
$
25,883 
$
45,338 
$
542,613 
2010  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et interest income 
$
867,069 
$
211,511 
 
$
338,312
$
169,201 
$
32,712 
$
1,618,805 
Provision for credit losses 
 
157,994 
 
104,705 
 
 
184,757
 
95,586 
 
91,505 
 
634,547 
N
oninterest income 
 
394,705 
 
111,237 
 
 
73,933
 
338,633 
 
123,350 
 
1,041,858 
N
oninterest expense, 
 
 902,186 
 
158,871 
 
 
155,963
 
358,707 
 
98,078 
 
1,673,805 
Provision (benefit) for income 
taxes 
 
70,558 
 
20,710 
 
 
25,033
 
18,740 
 
(95,077)
 
39,964 
N
et income  
$
131,036 
$
38,462 
 
$
46,492
$
34,801 
$
61,556 
$
312,347 
 
 
194 
 
 
 
Assets at 
 
 
Deposits at 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
December 31, 
(dollar amounts in thousands)
 
2012 
2011 
 
 
2012 
 
2011 
Retail and Business Banking 
$
 14,362,630 
$
 13,888,693 
 
$
 
 28,367,264 
$
 27,536,497 
Regional and Commercial Banking 
 
 11,540,966 
 10,185,692 
 
 
 5,862,858 
 4,682,977 
AFCRE 
 
 12,085,128 
 12,872,532 
 
 
 995,035 
 881,083 
WGH 
 
 7,570,256 
 7,473,560 
 
 
 9,507,785 
 9,115,052 
Treasury / Other 
 
 10,594,205 
 10,030,175 
 
 
 1,519,741 
 1,064,016 
Total 
$
 56,153,185 
$
 54,450,652 
 
$
 
 46,252,683 
$
 43,279,625 
 

26.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 
 
 
On March 30, 2012, Huntington acquired 
the loans, deposits and certain other assets and liabilities of Fidelity Bank located in
 
Dearborn, Michigan from the FDIC. Under the agreement, approxima
tely $523.9 million 
of loans, a receivab
le of $95.9 million fro
m 
the FDIC, and $152.3 million of other assets (primarily cash and 
due from banks and investment securities) were transferred to 
Huntington.  Assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed were recorded at fair value 
in accordance with ASC 805, ﬁBusiness 
Combinationsﬂ.  The fair values 
for loans were estimated using disc
ounted cash flow analyses usi
ng interest rates currently bei
ng 
offered for loans with similar terms (Level 3).  This value was reduced by an estimate of probable losses and the credit risk a
ssociated 
with the loans.  The fair values of de
posits were estimated by discounting cash fl
ows using interest rates currently being offe
red on 
deposits with similar maturities (Level 
3).  Additionally, approximately $713.4 milli
on of deposits and $45.2 million of other 
borrowings were assumed.  Huntington reco
gnized an $11.2 million bargain purchase gain
 during the 2012, which is included in ot
her 
noninterest income.  
195 
 
 
27.  QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED) 
 
 
 The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011: 
 
2012 
 
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data)
Fourth 
Third
Second
First
Interest income
$
 478,995 
$
 483,787 
$
 487,544
$
 479,937 
Interest expense
 44,940 
 53,489 
 58,582
 62,728 
N
et interest income
 434,055 
 430,298 
 428,962
 417,209 
Provision for credit losses
 39,458 
 37,004 
 36,520
 34,406 
N
oninterest income
 297,651 
 261,067 
 253,819
 285,320 
N
oninterest expense
 470,628 
 458,303 
 444,269
 462,676 
Income before income taxes
 221,620 
 196,058 
 201,992
 205,447 
Provision for income taxes
 54,341 
 28,291 
 49,286
 52,177 
N
et income 
 167,279 
 167,767 
 152,706
 153,270 
Dividends on preferred shares
 7,973 
 7,983 
 7,984
 8,049 
N
et income applicable to common shares
$
 159,306 
$
 159,784 
$
 144,722
$
 145,221 
N
et income per common share -- Basic
$
0.19 
$
0.19 
$
0.17
$
0.17 
N
et income per common share -- Diluted
0.19 
0.19 
0.17
0.17 
 
2011  
(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data)
 
Fourth 
Third 
 
 
Second 
First 
Interest income 
$
 485,216 
$
 490,996 
 
$ 
 492,137
$
 501,877 
Interest expense 
 70,191 
 84,518 
 
 
 88,800
 97,547 
N
et interest income 
 415,025 
 406,478 
 
 
 403,337
 404,330 
Provision for credit losses 
 45,291 
 43,586 
 
 
 35,797
 49,385 
N
oninterest income 
 229,352 
 258,559 
 
 
 255,767
 236,945 
N
oninterest expense 
 430,274 
 439,118 
 
 
 428,409
 430,699 
Income before income taxes 
 168,812 
 182,333 
 
 
 194,898
 161,191 
Provision for income taxes 
 41,954 
 38,942 
 
 
 48,980
 34,745 
N
et income 
 126,858 
 143,391 
 
 
 145,918
 126,446 
Dividends declared on preferred shares 
 7,703 
 7,703 
 
 
 7,704
 7,703 
N
et income applicable to common shares 
$
 119,155 
$
 135,688 
 
$ 
 138,214
$
 118,743 
N
et income per common share -- Basic 
$
0.14 
$
0.16 
 
$ 
0.16
$
0.14 
N
et income per common share -- Diluted 
0.14 
0.16 
 
 
0.16
0.14 
 
 
Item 9: Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
 
None. 
 
196 
 
Item 9A: Controls and Procedures 
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 
Huntington maintains disclosure controls 
and procedures designed to ensure that the 
information required to be disclosed in 
the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are recorded, processed, summarized
, and 
reported within the time periods 
specified in the Commission™s ru
les and forms. Disclosure cont
rols and proced
ures include, wit
hout 
limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that inform
ation required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports th
at it files 
or submits under the Act is accumulated an
d communicated to the issuer™s management, 
including its principal executive and prin
cipal 
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as 
appropriate to allow timely deci
sions regarding required disclo
sure. 
Huntington™s Management, with the particip
ation of its Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the 
effectiveness of Huntington™s disclosure controls and procedures
 (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) unde
r the 
Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this repo
rt. Based upon such evaluation, Huntington™s Chief Executive Offi
cer 
and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end 
of such period, Huntington™s disclosure controls and procedures 
were 
effective.  
 
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 
Information required by this item is set forth in Report of 
Management and Report of In
dependent Registered Public 
Accounting Firm which is
 incorporated by reference into this item. 
 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
 
There have not been any changes in our internal control over fi
nancial reporting (as such term 
is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) 
and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended December 31, 2012, to which this report relates, that have mater
ially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. 
 
Item 9B: Other Information 
  Not applicable.
PART III 
 
We refer in Part III of this report to relevant sections 
of our 2013 Proxy Statement 
for the 2013 annual meeting of 
shareholders, which will be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regu
lation 14A within 120 days of th
e close of our 2012 fiscal year.
 
Portions of our 2013 Prox
y Statement, including the sections we refer to in th
is report, are incorporated by reference into thi
s report. 
 
Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
 
Information required by this item is set 
forth under the captions Election of Direct
ors, Corporate Governance, Our Executive 
Officers, Board Meetings and Committee Information, Report of 
the Audit Committee, and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership 
Reporting Compliance of our 2013 
Proxy Statement, which is incorporated
 by reference into this item. 
 
Item 11: Executive Compensation 
 
Information required by this item is set forth under the captio
ns Compensation of Executives and Director Compensation of 
our 2013 Proxy Statement, 
which is incorporated by 
reference into this item. 
197 
 
Item 12:  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters 
 
Equity Compensation Plan Information  
 
The following table sets forth informa
tion about Huntington common stock author
ized for issuance under Huntington™s 
existing equity compensation plan
s as of December 31, 2012. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of 
 
 
 
 
securities 
 
 
Number of 
 
remaining available 
 
 
securities to be 
 
 
for future issuance 
 
 
issued upon 
 
Weighted-average 
under equity 
 
 
exercise of 
 
exercise price of 
compensation plans 
 
 
outstanding 
 
outstanding 
(excluding 
 
 
options, warrants, 
 
options, warrants, 
securities reflected 
 
 
and rights (2) 
 
and rights (3) 
in column (a)) (4) 
Plan Category (1) 
 
(a)  
 
(b)  
(c)
 
 
Equity compensation plans appr
oved by security holders 
 
 33,328,408 
 
$
 6.01 
 
 39,392,851 
 
Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
 
 2,617,167 
 
 
 14.12 
 
 ---
 
Total 
 
 35,945,575 
 
$
 6.60 
 
 39,392,851 
 
 
 
Item 13:  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
 
Information required by this item is set 
forth under the captions Indebtedness of Mana
gement and Certain other Transactions 
of our 2013 Proxy Statement, which is inco
rporated by reference into this item. 
 
Item 14:  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
 
Information required by this item is set forth under the capti
on Proposal to Ratify the Appoint
ment of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm of our 2013 P
roxy Statement which is incorporated
 by reference into this item. 
PART IV 
 
Item 15:   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
 
(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 
 
(1) The report of independent registered pu
blic accounting firm and consolidated fi
nancial statements appearing in Item 8. 
 
(2)Huntington is not filing separate financial statement schedule
s, because of the ab
sence of conditions und
er which they are 
required or because the requir
ed information is included in 
the Consolidated Financial Stateme
nts or the notes thereto.   
 
(3)The exhibits required by this item are listed in the Exhib
it Index of this Form 10-K.  The management contracts and 
compensation plans or arrangements 
required to be filed as exhibits to this 
Form 10-K are listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 
10.31 in the Exhibit Index.  
 
(b)  The exhibits to this Form 10-K begin on page 202 of this report. 
 
(c)  See Item 15(a)(2) above. 
198 
 
Signatures 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
 
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, th
ereunto duly authorized, on th
e 15th day of February, 2013. 
 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED 
(Registrant) 
 
 
By:  /s/ Stephen D. Steinour     By:  /s/ Donald R. Kimble   
   Stephen D. Steinour             Donald R. Kimble 
 
Chairman, President, Chief Executive
            
 Senior Executive Vice President
  
 Officer, and Director (Principal Executive         Chief Financial Officer 
 Officer)             (Principal Financial Officer) 
  
        By:  /s/ David S. Anderson   
               David S. Anderson 
               Ex
ecutive Vice Presid
ent, Controller 
               (Principal Accounting Officer) 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Secur
ities Exchange Act of 1934, this report ha
s been signed below by the following persons
 
on behalf of the Registrant and 
in the capacities indicated on 
the 15th day of February, 2013. 
 
Don M. Casto III  *     David P. Lauer  *     
Don M. Casto III      David P. Lauer 
Director       Director 
 
Ann B. Crane  *      Jonathan A. Levy  *    
Ann B. Crane      Jonathan A. Levy 
Director       Director 
 
Steven G. Elliott  *     Richard W. Neu  *    
Steven G. Elliott      Richard W. Neu 
Director       Director 
 
Michael J. Endres  *     David L. Porteous  *    
Michael J. Endres      David L. Porteous 
Director       Director 
 
John B. Gerlach, Jr.  *     Kathleen H. Ransier  *    
John B. Gerlach, Jr.     Kathleen H. Ransier 
Director       Director 
 
Peter J. Kight  *       
Peter J. Kight       
Director        
 
*/s/ Donald R. Kimble    
Donald R. Kimble 
Attorney-in-fact for each of the persons indicated 
199 
 
Exhibit Index 
This report incorporates by re
ference the documents listed belo
w that we have previously file
d with the SEC. The SEC allows us 
to 
incorporate by reference information in this
 document. The information incorporated by reference is considered to be a part of 
this 
document, except for any information that is superseded by 
information that is included 
directly in this document. 
  
This information may be read and copied at the Public Reference 
Room of the SEC at 100 F Str
eet, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. 
The SEC also maintains an Internet web site th
at contains reports, proxy
 statements, and other info
rmation about issuers, like 
us, who 
file electronically with the SEC. The address of the site is 
http://www.sec.gov
. The reports and other info
rmation filed by us with the 
SEC are also available at our Internet web site. The address of the site is 
http://www.huntington.com
. Except as specifically 
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in
formation on those web sites is not part of this report. You 
also 
should be able to insp
ect reports, proxy statements, and other information about
 us at the offices of the NASDAQ National Marke
t at 
33 Whitehall Street, New York, New York. 
 
Exhibit
Number Document Description 
Report or Registration 
Statement 
SEC File or 
Registration 
Number 
Exhibit
Reference 
2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 20, 
2006 by and among Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, Penguin Acquisition, LLC and Sky 
Financial Group, Inc. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated December 22, 2006. 
000-02525 2.1 
3.1 Articles of Restatement of Char
ter. Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 1993. 
000-02525 3(i) 
3.2 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated May 31, 2007 
000-02525 3.1 
3.3 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated May 7, 2008 
000-02525 3.1 
3.4 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Restatement of 
Charter 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 27, 2010 
001-34073 3.1 
3.5 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of April 22, 2008. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 22, 2008 
000-02525 3.1 
3.6 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of April 22. 2008. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated April 22, 2008 
000-02525 3.2 
3.7 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of November 12, 2008. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 12, 2008 
001-34073 3.1 
3.8 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of December 31, 2006. 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2006 
000-02525 3.4 
3.9 Articles Supplementary of Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated, as of December 28, 2011 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated December 28, 2011 
001-34073 3.1 
3.10 Bylaws of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, as 
amended and restated, as of July 18, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2012. 
001-34073 3.1 
4.1 Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders -- 
reference is made to Articles Fifth, Eighth, and Tenth 
of Articles of Restatement of Charter, as amended and 
supplemented. Instruments defining the rights of 
holders of long-term debt will be furnished to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 
   
10.1 * Form of Executive Agreement for certain executive 
officers. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.3 
10.2 * Management Incentive Plan for Covered Officers as 
amended and restated effective for plan years 
beginning on or after January 1, 2011. 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2011 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders 
001-34073 A 
10.3 * Huntington Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, 
amended and restated, effective October 15, 2008. 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2008 
001-34073 10.3 
10.4 * Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for Directors Post-Effective Amendment 
No. 2 to Registration 
Statement on Form S-8 filed 
on January 28, 1991. 
33-10546 4(a) 
10.5 * Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust for 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Directors 
Registration Statement on 
Form S-8 filed on July 19, 
1991. 
33-41774 4(a) 
10.6 * First Amendment to Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust 
for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Directors 
Quarterly Report 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 
2001 
000-02525 10(q) 
10.7 * Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended 
and restated on January 1, 2012. 
   
10.8 * The Huntington Supplemental Stock Purchase and 
Tax Savings Plan and Trust, amended and restated, 
effective January 1, 2005 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2007 
000-02525 10.5 
10.9 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2001 St
ock Quarterly Report 10-Q for 000-02525 10(r) 
200 
 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan the quarter ended March 31, 
2001 
10.10 * First Amendment to the Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated 2001 Stock and Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 
Quarterly Report 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 
2002 
000-02525 10(h) 
10.11 * Second Amendment to the Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated 2001 Stock and Long-Term Incentive 
Plan 
Quarterly Report 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 
2002 
000-02525 10(i) 
10.12 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2004 Stock 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
June 30, 2004 
000-02525 10(b) 
10.13 * First Amendment to the 2004 Stock and Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
March 31, 2006 
000-02525 10(e) 
10.14 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Employee 
Stock Incentive Plan (incorporating changes made by 
first amendment to Plan) 
Registration Statement on 
Form S-8 filed on December 
13, 2001. 
333-75032 4(a) 
10.15 * Second Amendment to Huntington Bancshares 
Incorporated Employee Stock Incentive Plan 
Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended 
December 31, 2002 
000-02525 10(s) 
10.16 * Form of Employment Agreement between Stephen 
D. Steinour and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
effective December 1, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.17 * Form of Executive Agreement between Stephen D. 
Steinour and Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
effective December 1, 2012. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 28, 2012. 
001-34073 10.2 
10.18 Letter Agreement including Securities Purchase 
Agreement Œ Standard Terms, dated November 14, 
2008, between Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
and the United States Department of the Treasury. 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated November 14, 2008. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.19 * Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice with three year 
vesting 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.1 
10.20 * Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice with six month 
vesting 
Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.2 
10.21 * Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Agreement Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.3 
10.22 * Director Deferred Stock Award Notice Current Report on Form 8-K 
dated July 24, 2006 
000-02525 99.4 
10.23 * Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2007 Stock 
and Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2007 Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders 
000-02525 G 
10.24 * First Amendment to the 2007 Stock and Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
Quarterly report on Form 10-
Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2007 
000-02525 10.7 
10.25 * Second Amendment to the 2007 Stock and Long-
Term Incentive Plan 
Definitive Proxy Statement 
for the 2010 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders 
001-34073 A 
10.26 * 2009 Stock Option Grant Notice to Stephen D. 
Steinour. 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
March 31, 2009. 
001-34073 10.1 
10.27 * Form of Consolidated 2012 Stock Grant Agreement 
for Executive Officers Pursuant to Huntington™s 2012 
Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended 
June 30, 2012. 
001-34073 10.2 
12.1 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 
 
   
12.2 Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred 
Dividends. 
 
   
14.1 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics dated January 
14, 2003 and revised on January 18, 2011 and 
Financial Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer 
and Senior Financial Officers, adopted January 18, 
2003 and revised on April 21, 2010, are available on 
our website at 
https://www.huntington.com/us/corp_governance.htm 
 
   
21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
 
   
23.1 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
 
   
24.1 Power of Attorney 
 
   
31.1 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification Œ Chief Executive 
Officer. 
 
   
201 
 
31.2 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification Œ Chief Financial 
Officer. 
 
   
32.1 Section 1350 Certification Œ Chief Executive Officer. 
 
   
32.2 Section 1350 Certification Œ Chief Financial Officer.    
101 ** The following material from Huntington™s Form 
10-K Report for the year 
ended December 31, 2012, 
formatted in XBRL: (1) Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
(2) Consolidated Statements of Income, (3), 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, 
(4) Consolidated Statements of Changes in 
Shareholders™ Equity, (5) Consolidated Statements of 
Cash Flows, and (6) the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.   
   
* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan 
or arrangement. 
   
** Furnished, not filed.    
 
 
BOARDOFDIRECTORS
DonM.CastoIII
(3)(4)(5)Principal/ChiefExecutiveOfficer,
CASTO
JoinedBoard:1985
Ann(“Tanny”)B.Crane
(1)(2)PresidentandChiefExecutiveOfficer,
CraneGroupCompany

JoinedBoard:2010
StevenG.Elliott
(4)(6)RetiredSeniorViceChairman,
BNYMellon

JoinedBoard:2011
MichaelJ.Endres
(4)Partner,StonehengePartners

JoinedBoard:2003
JohnB.Gerlach,Jr.
(3)(5)Chairman,President,andChiefExecutiveOfficer,
LancasterColonyCorporation

JoinedBoard:1999
PeterJ.Kight
(3)Co-ChairmanandManagingPartner,
ComvestAdvisors,LLC

JoinedBoard:2012
DavidP.Lauer
(1)CertifiedPublicAccountant
JoinedBoard:2003
JonathanA.Levy
(4)(6)ManagingPartner,
RedstoneInvestments

JoinedBoard:2007
RichardW.Neu
(1)Chairman,MCGCapitalCorporation

JoinedBoard:2010
DavidL.Porteous
(3)(4)(5)(6)
Attorney,McCurdy,Wotila&Porteous,PC;

LeadDirector,

HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

JoinedBoard:2003
KathleenH.Ransier
(2)(3)FormerPartner,
Vorys,Sater,SeymourandPeaseLLP

JoinedBoard:2003
StephenD.Steinour
(4)Chairman,President,andChiefExecutiveOfficer,
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

andTheHuntingtonNationalBank

JoinedBoard:2009
COMMITTEES(1)Audit(2)CommunityDevelopment
(3)Compensation(4)Executive(5)NominatingandCorporateGovernance
(6)RiskOversight
CONTACTANDOTHERINFORMATION
SHAREHOLDERCONTACTS
Shareholdersrequestinginformationaboutshare
balances,changeofnameoraddress,lostcertificates,

orothershareholderaccountmattersshouldcontact

theregistrarandtransferagent:
ComputershareInvestorServices
Attn:ShareholderServices

250RoyallStreet

Canton,MA02021

web.queries@computershare.com
(800)725-0674
DIRECTSTOCKPURCHASEAND
DIVIDENDREINVESTMENTPLAN
ComputershareInvestmentPlan(CIP)isadirect
stockpurchaseanddividendreinvestmentplanfor

investorsholdingorwhowishtobecomeholdersof

commonstockofHuntington.TheCIPisofferedand

administeredbyComputershareTrustCompany,

N.A.(Computershare),andnotbyHuntington.Both

registeredshareholdersandnewinvestorsareableto

purchaseHuntingtoncommonsharesthroughthe

CIP.Computershareistheregistrarandtransferagent

forHuntingtoncommonstock.Call(800)725-0674

forinformationtoenrollintheCIP.
DIRECTDEPOSITOFDIVIDENDS
Automaticdirectdepositofquarterlydividendsis
offeredtoourshareholders,atnocharge,and

providessecureandtimelyaccesstotheirfunds.For

furtherinformation,pleasecall(800)725-0674.
SHAREHOLDERINFORMATION
CommonStock:

ThecommonstockofHuntingtonBancshares
IncorporatedistradedontheNASDAQStockMarket

underthesymbol“HBAN.”Thestockislistedas

“HuntgBcshr”or“HuntBanc”inmostnewspapers.

AsofDecember31,2012,Huntingtonhad

35,481shareholdersofrecord.
AnnualMeeting:
The2013AnnualMeetingofShareholdershasbeen
scheduledfor2:00p.m.EDT,Thursday,April18,

2013,atHuntington’sEastonBusinessService

Center,7EastonOval,Columbus,Ohio.
InformationRequests:
CopiesofHuntington’sAnnualReport;Forms10-K,
10-Q,and8-K;FinancialCodeofEthics;andquarterly

earningsreleasesmaybeobtained,freeofcharge,by

calling(888)480-3164orbyvisitingHuntington’s

InvestorRelationswebsiteathuntington.com.
ANALYSTANDINVESTORCONTACTS
Analystsandinvestorsseekingfinancialinformation
aboutHuntingtonshouldcontact:
InvestorRelations
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated

HuntingtonCenter,HC0935

41SouthHighStreet

Columbus,OH43287

investor.relations@huntington.com
(614)480-5676
QUARTERLYEARNINGSREPORTING
For2013reportingperiods,Huntingtonanticipates
announcingquarterlyresultsduringthethirdweekof

April,July,andOctober2013,andJanuary2014.
CREDITRATINGS
(1)TheHuntingtonNationalBank
SeniorUnsecuredNotesSubordinatedNotesCommercialPaper/
ShortTermOutlook
Moody’s(2)A3Baa1P-2Stable
Fitch(3)BBB+BBBF2Positive
S&P(4)BBB+BBBWRStable
HuntingtonBancsharesIncorporated
SeniorUnsecuredNotesSubordinatedNotesCommercialPaper/
ShortTermOutlook
Moody’s(2)Baa1Baa2WRStable
Fitch(3)BBB+BBBF2Positive
S&P(4)BBBBBBWRStable
WR—WithdrawnRating
(1)AsofDecember31,2012
(2)Moody’sInvestorsService,NewYork,NewYork
(3)FitchRatings,NewYork,NewYork
(4)Standard&Poor’sCorporation,NewYork,NewYork
CUSTOMERCONTACTS
CorporateHeadquarters
(614)480-8300
MortgageDirect
(800)562-6871
CustomerServiceCenter
(800)480-BANK(2265)
HuntingtonWealthAdvisors
(800)544-8347
BusinessDirect
(800)480-2001
InsuranceServices
(888)576-7900
AutoLoan&Lease
(800)445-8460
huntington.com(877)932-2265
TheHuntington
InvestmentCompany

(800)322-4600
R03013A030030133ARDICMember FDIC.C.FDMember ®unnd Huntingto and ntinHugton®ancshares Incorpod service marks ofdare federally registered service marks of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated.ed.orancshares Incorphares Incrvice markf Huntington Baservice marks ountingtonerally registeredlly registefe areWelton We
come.Wn HuntingtTMcshares IncorporaHa sis a service mark of Huntington Bancshares Incorporatedares Incoratcshares Incorpord.Huntington Banntington B iservice mark of avice markporated.Huntington Bancshaares Incorp© 2013 HonBancsharesInco
20s Incorpogton Ban© 2013porated.ancshares I©3 Huntingt