44686_Cvr.indd   144686_Cvr.indd   12/28/14   4:05 PM2/28/14   4:05 PMDesign:
  paragraphs.com
Corporate Headquarters
SunTrust Banks, Inc. 
303 Peachtree Street, NE 
Atlanta, GA 30308 
404.588.7711 
Corporate Mailing Address
SunTrust Banks, Inc. 
P.O. Box 4418 
Center 645 
Atlanta, GA 30302-4418 
Notice of Annual Meeting
The Annual Meeting of Share-
holders will be held on Tuesday, 
April 22, 2014, at 9:30 a.m. in 
Suite 105 on the ﬁ
 rst ﬂ
 oor of 
SunTrust Plaza Gar
  ces, 
303 Peachtree Center Avenue, 
Atlanta, Georgia.
Stock Trading
SunTrust Banks, Inc. common 
stock is traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange (NYSE) under 
the symbol STI. 
Quarterly Common Stock Prices And Dividends
The quarterly high, low, and close prices of SunTrust’s common stock 
for each quarter of 2013 and 2012 and the dividends paid per share 
are shown below. 
      
Market Price  Dividends 
Quarter Ended High Low Close Paid 
2013
 
December 31  $36.99 $31.97 $36.81 $0.10
September 30  36.29 31.59 32.42 0.10
June 30  32.84 26.97 31.57 0.10
March 31  29.98 26.93 28.81 0.05
2012
December 31  $30.64 $25.30 $28.35 $0.05
September 30  30.79 22.34 28.27 0.05
June 30  24.83 20.96 24.23 0.05
March 31  24.93 18.07 24.17 0.05
Credit Ratings
Ratings as of December 31, 2013.
  
            
  
 Standard  
 Moody’s & Poor’s Fitch
Corporate Level
Long-term ratings 
Senior debt  Baa1 BBB BBB
Subordinated debt Baa2 BBB BBB
Preferred stock Ba1 BB BB 
Short-term ratings
 P-2 A-2 F2
Bank Level
Long-term ratings
Senior debt A3 BBB  BBB
Subordinated debt  Baa1 BBB BBB 
Short-term ratings
 P-2 A-2 F2
Ratings Outlook
 Stable Positive Positive
Shareholder Services
Registered shareholders of SunTrust Banks, Inc. who wish to change 
the name, address, or ownership of common stock, to report 
lost certiﬁ
 cates, or to consolidate accounts should contact our
transfer agent:
 Computershare 
 250 Royall Street Mail Stop 1A
 Canton, MA 02021
 866.299.4214 
 www.computershare.com
For general shareholder information, contact Investor Relations at 
877.930.8971.
Analyst Information
Analysts, investors, and others seeking additional financial 
information should contact:
  Ankur Vyas
Director of Investor Relations
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
P.O. Box 4418
Mail Code:  GA-ATL-634
Atlanta, GA 30302-4418
877.930.8971
investorrelations@suntrust.com
Investor Relations Website
To ﬁ nd the latest investor information about SunTrust, 
including 
stock quotes, news releases, corporate governance information, 
and 
ﬁ
 nancial data, go to www.suntrust.com/investorrelations. 
Client Information 
For assistance with SunTrust products and services, call 800.SUNTRUST 
or visit www.suntrust.com.   
Website Access to United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission Filings 
All reports filed electronically by SunTrust Banks, Inc. with the 
United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including the 
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current 
event reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports ﬁ
 led 
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, 
are accessible as soon as reasonably practicable at no cost on the 
Investor Relations website at www.suntrust.com/investorrelations. 
Shareholder Information
+
+
+
+
-
-
4
4
6
8
6
_
C
vr.
i
n
d
d
 
 
 
2
44686_Cvr.indd   2
2
/
2
8
/
1
4
 
 
 
4
:
0
5
 
PM
2/28/14   4:05 PM
1
1SunTrust at a Glance
Consumer Banking and 
Private Wealth Management 
Consumer Banking provides deposit, credit, and 

other ﬁ nancial services to retail clients through 

an extensive network of traditional and in-store 

branches and ATMs, as well as our technology-
based banking channels, including online, mobile, 

and state-of-the-art customer service centers. 

The company has approximately 1,500 branches 
and 2,250 ATMs, located primarily in Florida, 

Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, 
Tennessee, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. 
 ers a full array 
of banking, brokerage, professional investment 

management, and trust services to individual and 
institutional clients. SunTrust delivers a full suite of ﬁ nancial products and services to a broad range of 

consumer, business, and institutional clients.
We are committed to Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being for our clients. It is 
our purpose, and we do it by putting our clients’ needs ﬁ rst. We strive to understand 

our clients’ speciﬁ c circumstances and provide the personalized advice and services 

that meet their unique banking, borrowing, and investing needs. Our businesses are 

organized around three client segments. 
Wholesale BankingWholesale Banking delivers a comprehensive suite 
of ﬁ nancial products and services including mergers 
and acquisitions advisory, capital raising, cash 

management, and merchant card services to 

businesses, corporations, institutions, not-for-proﬁ t 
organizations, and government entities.    The primary Wholesale Banking businesses are 
Corporate & Investment Banking, Commercial & 
Business Banking, Treasury & Payment Solutions, 
and Commercial Real Estate.Mortgage Banking  ers home ﬁ
 nancing solutions 
to help clients purchase or reﬁ nance a home. 

Professional loan consultants are located throughout 

SunTrust’s retail banking footprint and can also 

be accessed nationally through a network of 

correspondent lenders, a call center, and our website.44686_Eds.indd   144686_Eds.indd   12/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AMSunTrust Banks, Inc. 
 2013 Annual Report
Financial Highlights
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)

Year ended December 31
 2013 2012 2011For The Year
Net income $1,344 $1,958 $647

Net income available to common shareholders 1,297 1,931
  495
Net income available to common shareholders, excluding the impact of 

   Form 8-K items during 2013 and 2012 
1 1,476 1,178 495
Total revenue — FTE 
1, 2 8,194 10,598 8,600
Noninterest expense 5,880 6,323 6,234

Common dividends paid 188 107 64
Per Common Share
Net income — diluted $2.41 $3.59  $0.94 

Net income — diluted, excluding the impact of Form 8-K items 

   during 2013 and 2012 1 2.74 2.19 0.94 
Dividends declared 0.35 0.20 0.12

Common stock closing price 36.81 28.35 17.70

Book value 38.61 37.59 36.86
Financial Ratios
Return on average total assets      0.78% 1.11 %
 0.38%
Return on average total assets, excluding the impact of 

   Form 8-K items during 2013 and 2012 
1 0.88     0.68 0.38   
Return on average common shareholders’ equity 6.34 9.56 2.56 

Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity, excluding 

   the impact of Form 8-K items during 2013 and 2012 
1 10.52 8.55 3.83 
Net interest margin 
2 3.24 3.40 3.50
  ciency ratio 
2 71.75 59.67 72.49 
T
  ciency ratio, excluding the impact of Form 8-K items 
   during 2013 and 2012 1 65.86 67.34 71.99 
Tier 1 common equity 9.82 10.04 9.22

Tier 1 capital 10.81 11.13 10.90 

Total capital 12.81 13.48 13.67
Selected Average Balances
Total assets 
$172,497 
$176,134  $172,440  
Earning assets 
153,728 153,479 147,802  
Loans 122,657 122,893 116,308 
Deposits 129,141 128,504 125,058

Total shareholders’ equity 21,167 20,495 20,696

Common shares — diluted (thousands) 539,093 538,061
 527,618
At December 31
Total assets $175,335 $173,442 $176,859

Earning assets 156,978 151,223 154,696

Loans 127,877 121,470 122,495
Allowance for loan and lease losses 2,044 2,174 2,457

Deposits 129,759 132,316 127,922

Total shareholders’ equity 21,422 20,985 20,066 

Common shares outstanding (thousands) 536,097 538,959  536,967 
  1 See reconciliation of non-GAAP measures in Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," in the MD&A section 
of the company's 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2   Total revenue is comprised of net interest income presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis and noninterest incom
e. The net interest mar
  ciency ratios are presented on an FTE basis.  
The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of income fr
om certain loans and investments.  The company believes this measu
re is the preferred industry measurement of net interest income and  
 it enhances comparability of net interest income arising 
from taxable and tax-exempt sources.  
44686_Eds.indd   244686_Eds.indd   22/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AM3To Our Shareholders
In several ways, 2013 marked a meaningful step forward in the progression 

of our company. We delivered improved bottom-line performance and made 

considerable headway in reducing our overall risk proﬁ le, capping the year 

with strong growth in adjusted earnings and credit quality improvement. 

 
  cient company, 
 orts on our key strategic priorities and purpose in order to 
deliver more value to clients and shareholders.  

Our core operating trends were largely favorable during 2013, which was 

reﬂ ected in the 25% growth in adjusted earnings per share over 2012. In a 

year that was not without challenges, we delivered on several fronts.44686_Eds.indd   344686_Eds.indd   32/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AMSunTrust Banks, Inc. 
 2013 Annual Report
2013 Financial Highlights
•  We made substantial progress toward our long-
  ciency ratio goal. 
We accomplished this despite revenue challenges that resulted from considerable mortgage income headwinds, as 
longer-term interest rates began to climb and 
reﬁ 
 ect 
of the prolonged low short-term interest rate 

environment on net interest income.   •  Adjusted noninterest expense was down 12% 
from the prior year as a result of our continued 
 orts to better manage expenses across the 
company and the abatement of cyclical costs. •  
 s 
declined substantially and are at their lowest 

levels since 2007. This credit quality improvement 
drove signiﬁ cant year-over-year reductions in 
the provision for credit losses. Our improved risk 
proﬁ le allows us to more ﬁ
 rmly focus on the future 
of the company and the opportunities we see 
across our businesses.•  We delivered solid loan growth, with period-end 
balances up 5% from 2012, driven by targeted 

growth in commercial and industrial (C&I) and 
commercial real estate loans. Also notable 

was the improving momentum as the year 

progressed, with loan balances and growth rates increasing each quarter. •  We maintained a strong capital position with a 
Tier 1 common ratio of 9.8% on a Basel I basis, 
and 9.6% on a Basel III estimated basis. We 

also increased capital return to shareholders by 
doubling our quarterly dividend to $0.10 per share 
and repurchasing $200 million of stock during 
2013 and early 2014.44686_Eds.indd   444686_Eds.indd   42/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AM5 I. Optimize the Balance Sheet and Business Mix
One of our strategic priorities is to optimize the 
 orts have 
been centered on improving the diversiﬁ cation 
of our loan portfolio and growing key businesses, 
particularly expanding Wholesale Banking and 
consumer lending. We have already made notable 
headway. From a balance sheet perspective, C&I and consumer loans, excluding government-guaranteed 
student loans, have increased from 46% of our total 
loan portfolio in 2009 to 57% at the end of 2013. 
During that same timeframe we reduced our 

nonguaranteed residential and home equity 

exposure from 38% to 31%. Furthermore, investment 

banking income has grown appreciably, achieving 

a new record year in 2013. Our Wholesale Banking 

segment, in aggregate, contributed $900 million 

to the company’s bottom line.   
We have initiatives in place to help drive further 
growth. For example, we are expanding our Wholesale 

Banking reach by augmenting our industry coverage 
model and extending the markets in which we serve 
corporate banking clients — taking our corporate 
banking services beyond our regional footprint 

and on to a national scale. We have also added 
a nationwide, online consumer lending platform 
which targets super-prime clients. These growth 
initiatives are representative of our efforts to 
further expand our client franchise and supplement 
the growth in our regionally focused businesses.SunTrust’s Market Position 

and Strategic Focus
Our focus remains on meeting more of our clients’ 
needs, driving proﬁ table growth, and further 

  ciency of the company. We have 
a solid market position and the strategic focus to 
deliver improvement by leveraging the work we 

have already done to drive better performance 

and returns for our shareholders. 
 ords 
us unique opportunities. We believe that our size 
is ideal. We are large enough that we have the 
breadth of products to meet clients’ needs, but 

 ectively react to 
evolving market conditions and client preferences. 
We are a strong regional bank that has augmented 
its position with several strategic national businesses. 

Our geographic diversity supplements our business 
diversity, both of which are important to a bank’s 

performance. Furthermore, we have strong market 

share in the majority of our larger markets and 

these markets exhibit favorable growth characteristics. 

These hallmarks of SunTrust add up to a compelling 
organic growth opportunity, and we have actionable 

strategies to capitalize on our position.
Our strategic priorities are the same ones that 

have driven our transformation over the last several 

years. We continue to focus on three key areas as 
we look to grow and augment the business. Each of 
our business segments — Consumer Banking and 

Private Wealth Management, Wholesale Banking, and Mortgage Banking — plays a critical role in the 
success of our overall strategic objectives.44686_Eds.indd   544686_Eds.indd   52/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AMSunTrust Banks, Inc. 
 2013 Annual Report
II. Deepen Client RelationshipsWe are acutely focused on deepening client 
relationships. During 2013, we enhanced training 

and teammate tools to execute against this priority 
and made strides in deepening client relationships 
in each of our business segments. 
We continue to make investments to help teammates 

identify and meet more clients’ needs. In Consumer Banking, we enhanced the functionality of our branch platform application. In 
Private Wealth 
Management, we recently launched an innovative 
ﬁ nancial planning tool that measures progress 

toward each client’s ﬁ nancial goals, integrating 

all of their ﬁ nancial information including items 

held outside of SunTrust into one easy-to-use 

online portal. In Wholesale Banking, we continue 

to successfully deliver a comprehensive suite of 

ﬁ nancial products and services though our uniquely 
positioned middle-market investment banking 
business, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. We expect 
to better leverage our investment banking success 
with our corporate banking, commercial and 

business banking, and commercial real estate clients so that we can improve penetration and expand client relationships. We also believe we 
can improve the delivery of mortgage products 
to our consumer banking and private wealth 
clients, and we have initiatives in place to capture 
this opportunity.  ciency
  ciency ratio of the company is a 
critical priority, and we made notable progress in 
  ciency ratio in 
  ciency 
ratio, and I’ve outlined some of the initiatives we are 

pursuing to drive growth, but expense management 

 orts. 
Expense management intensity continues across 
the organization, but some larger initiatives will 
help drive future progress. First, we are rightsizing 
our Mortgage Banking business due to both the 
resolution of legacy matters and as a response to 
the current origination environment. Moreover, 
we continue to focus on our digital channels to 
improve the client experience and reduce our cost 
to serve. The usage of self-service channels has 
steadily increased, and concurrent with this trend 
we reduced our branch count by 7% during 2013. 
Additionally, we are streamlining operations and 
support functions to remove redundancy and 
 ectiveness. 
To be clear, our focus is on improving the 

 
  ciency of our organization, 
as measured by our e
  ciency ratio. Revenue is an 
important component and some of our revenue 
growth initiatives will require investment. We will 

reinvest in areas that we believe will generate 

revenue growth and improve our long-term 

proﬁ tability proﬁ
 le.   
 44686_Eds.indd   644686_Eds.indd   62/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AM7Note: This letter contains references to adjusted 
numbers. Please see the corresponding GAAP numbers on the preceding “Financia
l Highlights” table.  Reconciliations to adjusted ﬁ
 gures 
are provided in the following 2013 Form 10-K in Table 36, beginning on page 95. Statements regarding our goals and objectives a
re forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned 
against placing undue reliance upon these statements since they are 
subject to material risks and uncertainties. We list some o
f the f
 ect these statements in the 
attached annual report on Form 10-K at Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis, beginning on page 32.          
Our Purpose
Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being continues to be at the center of everything we do. We deﬁ ne 
ﬁ nancial well-being as the feeling of conﬁ dence 

and control over one’s ﬁ nances. It applies to both 

people and businesses. It’s also how we approach our 

business, our relationships, and our communities.  

I don’t want us to ever lose sight of the important 
role we play every day in helping people and 

businesses reach their goals. SunTrust is critical 
to our nation’s economic recovery and the health 
and well-being of our communities. Lighting 
the Way to Financial Well-Being is our way of articulating our collective commitment to this 

responsibility. When we do this well, our business 

expands and our shareholders are rewarded. 
Our teammates continue to demonstrate their 
commitment to our clients and communities 
through the service they provide and their support 
of numerous organizations. This commitment 

is recognized through the many accolades we 

received throughout the year, including 11 

Greenwich Excellence Awards for distinctive quality 

in serving the ﬁ nancial needs of small business 

clients and being ranked at the top for customer 

advocacy in the super-regional banks category of 

Market Probe’s 2013 survey. I 
am also incredibly proud of our community giving and volunteerism. Collectively, this year we achieved a record $6.2 
million in teammate giving for the United Way. 
Through partnerships with Operation H
OPE, Junior 
Achievement, and several other organizations, 
 orts in delivering ﬁ nancial 
education, and our purpose, across our communities. I thank all of the SunTrust teammates for their 

dedication to this company, to our clients, and 

to our communities, where they are making a 

difference every day.  

I also thank our clients, who entrust us to help light the way to their ﬁ 
nancial well-being, and to our shareholders for your investment and continued 
support. Lastly, I express my gratitude to our Board 
of Directors for their knowledge and guidance and acknowledge the invaluable insight and acumen 

that our departing board members, A.D. “Pete”  rey Crowe, have provided during 
their tenure on our board. 
I am conﬁ dent that the initiatives that we are 

pursuing to optimize our balance sheet and business 

mix, deepen client relationships, and improve our 
  ciency 
are the right ones. We have demonstrated progress already and will endeavor to continue that 
momentum in 
2014. William H. Rogers, Jr.
  cer
February 24, 201444686_Eds.indd   744686_Eds.indd   72/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AMSunTrust Banks, Inc. 
 2013 Annual Report
William H. Rogers, Jr.
1Chairman and 
Chief Executiv
  cer 
Robert M. Beall, II
 2, 3Chairman
Beall’s, Inc.
Bradenton, Florida
A. D. Correll
 1, 3, 5Chairman 
Atlanta Equity Investors, LLC

Atlanta, Georgia
Jeffrey C. Crowe
  Director and Former Chairman

Landstar System, Inc.

Jacksonville, Florida
David H. Hughes
  4, 5Former Chairman and 

Chief Executiv
  cer 
Hughes Supply, Inc.

Orlando, FloridaM. Douglas Ivester
  1, 4, 5President

Deer Run Investments, LLC

Atlanta, Georgia
Kyle Prechtl Legg
 1, 2, 3 Former President and 

Chief Executiv
  cer 
Legg Mason Capital Management 

Baltimore, Maryland
William A. Linnenbringer
  2, 4Retired Partner

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

St. Louis, MissouriDonna S. Morea
 3, 5Chief Executiv
  cer
Adesso Group

Royal Oak, Maryland
David M. Ratcliffe 
1, 3, 5Retired Chairman,

President and Chief 

Executiv
  cer
Southern Company 

Atlanta, Georgia
Frank P. Scruggs, Jr. 
3, 5Partner 

Berger Singerman LLP

Ft. Lauderdale, Florida 
Thomas R. Watjen
  1, 2, 4 President and Chief 

Executiv
  cer
Unum Group

Chattanooga, Tennessee
Dr. Phail Wynn, Jr. 
1, 2, 4Vice President, Durham 

and R
 airs 
Duke University 

Durham, North Carolina
William H. Rogers, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executiv
  cer
Kenneth J. Carrig
Chief Human Resour
  cer
Mark A. Chancy
Wholesale Banking Executive
Anil T. Cheriyan
Chief Inf
  cer
Hugh S. (Beau) Cummins, III
Commercial and Business 

Banking Executive
Rilla S. Delorier
Consumer Channels, 

Sales & Service Executive
Brad R. Dinsmore
Consumer Banking and Private 

Wealth Management Executive
Raymond D. Fortin
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Thomas E. Freeman
  cer
Aleem Gillani
Chief F
  cer
Jerome T. Lienhard, II
Mortgage Executive
Executive 

Leadership Team
Board Of Directors
1. Executive Committee     2. Audit Committee     3. Compensation Committee   

4. Governance and Nominating Committee     5. Risk Committee
44686_Eds.indd   844686_Eds.indd   82/27/14   11:22 AM2/27/14   11:22 AM UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 or TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Commission File Number 001-08918SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Georgia 58-1575035(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
303 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30308
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(404) 588-7711
(Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: 
Title of each class  Name of exchange on which registeredCommon Stock  New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/4000th Interest in aShare of Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
  New York Stock Exchange
Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/4000th Interest in aShare of Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E  New York Stock Exchange
5.853% Fixed-to Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of SunTrust Preferred Capital I
  New York Stock Exchange
Warrants to Purchase Common Stock at $44.15 per share, expiring November 14, 2018New York Stock Exchange

Warrants to Purchase Common Stock at $33.70, expiring December 31, 2018New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes 
     No  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   
 Yes  
    No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  
    No  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every I
nteractive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or
 for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      Yes    
  NoIndicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this For
m 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a
 smaller reporting company. See 
the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filer,ﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchang
e Act.Large accelerated filer  
        Accelerated filer  
        Non-accelerated filer          Smaller reporting company  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes  
    No  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates at June 28, 2013, was approximately
 $17.0 billion, based on the New York Stock Exchange closing price for such shares on that date. For purposes of this calculation, the Registrant has
 assumed that its directors and executive officers are affiliates.

At February 19, 2014, 534,671,799 shares of the Registrant™s Common Stock, $1.00 par value, were outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Pursuant to Instruction G of Form 10-K, information in the Registrant™s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2014 Annual Sharehol
der™s Meeting, which it 
will file with the SEC no later than April 22, 2014 (the ﬁProxy Statementﬂ), is incorporated by reference into Items 10-14 of t
his Report.TABLE OF CONTENTS
  PageItem 1:
Item 1A:
Item 1B:
Item 2:
Item 3:
Item 4:
Item 5:
Item 6:
Item 7:
Item 7A:
Item 8:
Item 9:
Item 9A:
Item 9B:
Item 10:
Item 11:
Item 12:
Item 13:
Item 14:
Item 15:Glossary of Defined Terms
i - ivPART I
Business.1Risk Factors.8Unresolved Staff Comments.
26Properties.26Legal Proceedings.26Mine Safety Disclosures.26PART II
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer 
Purchases of Equity Securities.27Selected Financial Data.30Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
.32Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
.101Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.101Consolidated Statements of Income103Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss)/Income104Consolidated Balance Sheets105Consolidated Statements of Shareholders™ Equity
106Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows107Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements108Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
208Controls and Procedures.208Other Information.208PART III
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
209Executive Compensation.209Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.209Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
209Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
209PART IV
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.209Signatures.214iGLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS

ABS Š Asset-backed securities.
ACH Š Automated clearing house.
AFS Š Available for sale. 
Agreements 
Š Equity forward agreements.AIP Š Annual Incentive Plan.
ALCO Š Asset/Liability Management Committee.
ALM Š Asset/Liability Management.
ALLL Š Allowance for loan and lease losses.
AOCI Š Accumulated other comprehensive income.
ARM Š Adjustable rate mortgage.
ARS Š Auction rate securities. 
ASU Š Accounting standards update. 
ATE
 Š Additional termination event.
ATM
 Š Automated teller machine.
Bank Š SunTrust Bank.
Basel III Š The third Basel Accord developed by the BCBS to strengthen existing regulatory capital requirements.
BCBS Š Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. BHC Š  Bank Holding Company.
BHC Act Š The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
Board Š The Company™s Board of Directors.
BPS Š Basis points.BRC Š Board Risk Committee.CC Š Capital Committee.CCAR Š Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. 
CDO Š Collateralized debt obligation. CD Š Certificate of deposit. CDR Š Conditional default rate.CDS Š Credit default swaps.CET 1
 Š Common Equity Tier 1 Capital.
CEO Š Chief Executive Officer.
CFO Š Chief Financial Officer.
CFPB Š Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.CFTC Š  Commodities Futures Trading Commission.
CIB Š Corporate and Investment Banking. C&I Š Commercial and Industrial.Class A shares
 Š Visa Inc. Class A common stock. 
Class B shares
 ŠVisa Inc. Class B common stock.
CLO Š Collateralized loan obligation.Coke Š The Coca-Cola Company. 
Company Š SunTrust Banks, Inc.
CORO Š Corporate Operations Risk Officer.
CP Š Commercial paper.

CPP  
Š Capital Purchase Program.iiCPR Š Conditional prepayment rate.CRA 
Š Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.
CRC Š Corporate Risk Committee.CRE  Š Commercial real estate.CRO Š Chief Risk Officer.
CRM Š Corporate Risk Management.CSA Š Credit support annex. DDA Š Demand deposit account.DFAST 
Š  Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing.
DIF 
Š  Deposit Insurance Fund.Dodd-Frank Act Š The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.
DOJ Š Department of Justice.DTA 
Š  Deferred tax asset.DTL 
Š  Deferred tax liability.
EPS Š Earnings per share.ERISA Š Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. 
Exchange Act Š Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

FASB 
Š Financial Accounting Standards Board.

FDIA 
Š  Federal Deposit Insurance Act.

FDIC Š The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
FDICIA 
Š The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991.
Federal Reserve Š The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Fed funds Š Federal funds.FFELP Š Federal Family Education Loan Program.FFIEC Š Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council.
FHA Š Federal Housing Administration.
FHFA 
Š Federal Housing Finance Agency.
FHLB Š Federal Home Loan Bank. FICO Š Fair Isaac Corporation. FINRA 
Š  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
Fitch Š Fitch Ratings Ltd.Form 8-K items - Items disclosed in Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC on September 6, 2012 or October 10, 2013.FRB Š Federal Reserve Board.
FTE Š Fully taxable-equivalent.
FVO
 Š Fair value option. GenSpring Š GenSpring Family Offices, LLC.
GLB Act Š  Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
GSE Š Government-sponsored enterprise.HAMP 
Š Home Affordable Modification Program.
HARP 
Š Home Affordable Refinance Program.
HOEPA 
Š  Home Owner's Equity Protection Act.
HUD Š U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.IIS Š Institutional Investment Solutions.IPO Š Initial public offering.
iiiIRLC Š Interest rate lock commitment.IRS Š Internal Revenue Service.ISDA Š International Swaps and Derivatives Association.
LCR Š Liquidity coverage ratio.LGD Š Loss given default.LHFI Š Loans held for investment.LHFI-FV Š Loans held for investment carried at fair value.LHFS Š Loans held for sale.LIBOR ŠLondon InterBank Offered Rate. 
LOCOM Œ Lower of cost or market.LTI
 Š Long-term incentive. LTV
Š Loan to value. MBS Š Mortgage-backed securities. MD&A Š Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
MI Š Mortgage insurance. Moody™s
 Š Moody™s Investors Service. 
MSA 
Š  Metropolitan Statistical Area.
MRA 
Š Master Repurchase Agreement.
MRMG Š Model Risk Management Group.MSR Š Mortgage servicing right. MVE Š Market value of equity.
NCF 
Š  National Commerce Financial Corporation.NOL Š Net operating loss.NOW Š Negotiable order of withdrawal account.
NPA
 Š Nonperforming asset.NPL Š Nonperforming loan.
NPR Š Notice of Proposed Rulemaking.NSFR Š Net stable funding ratio.NYSE Š New York Stock Exchange.
OCC Š Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
OCI Š Other comprehensive income. OFAC
 Š Office of Foreign Assets Control. 

OIG Š Office of Inspector General.
OREO Š Other real estate owned.OTC Š Over-the-counter.
OTTI Š Other-than-temporary impairment.
Parent Company
 Š SunTrust Banks, Inc., the parent Company of SunTrust Bank and other subsidiaries of SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Patriot Act Š The USA Patriot Act of 2001.
PD Š Probability of default.PMC Š Portfolio Management Committee.
PWM Š Private Wealth Management.
QSPE Š Qualifying special-purpose entity.
REIT 
Š Real estate investment trust.RidgeWorth
 Š RidgeWorth Capital Management, Inc.
ivROA 
Š Return on average total assets. ROE Š Return on average common shareholders™ equity.
ROTCE Š Return on average tangible common shareholders' equity.
RSU Š Restricted stock unit. RWA 
Š Risk-weighted assets. S&P Š Standard and Poor™s.
SBA Š Small Business Administration.
SCAP 
Š Supervisory Capital Assessment Program.
SEC Š U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.SERP Š Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.SPE Š Special purpose entity. 
STIS Š SunTrust Investment Services, Inc.
STM Š SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. 
STRH Š SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. 
SunTrust
 Š SunTrust Banks, Inc. 
SunTrust Community Capital 
Š SunTrust Community Capital, LLC.
TARP 
Š Troubled Asset Relief Program.
TDR Š Troubled debt restructuring. 
TRS Š Total return swaps.
U.S. Š United States.U.S. GAAP Š Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States. 
U.S. Treasury
 Š The United States Department of the Treasury. 
UPB Š Unpaid principal balance.UTB Š Unrecognized tax benefit. VA ŠVeterans Administration.
VAR
 ŠValue at risk.
VEBA 
Š Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association.
VI Š Variable interest. 
VIE Š Variable interest entity.
Visa
 ŠThe Visa, U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates, collectively.
Visa Counterparty
 Š a financial institution which purchased the Company's Visa Class B shares.
VOE 
Š Voting interest entity.
W&IM Š Wealth and Investment Management.
1PART I
Item 1.BUSINESS
General
The Company, a Georgia corporation and a bank holding company and a financial holding company, is one of the nation's 

largest commercial banking organizations whose businesses provide a broad range of financial services to consumer, business, 

and corporate clients. SunTrust was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of the State of Georgia. The principal executive 

offices of the Company are located in SunTrust Plaza, Atlanta, Georgia 30308.

Additional information relating to our businesses and our subsidiaries is included in the information set forth in Item 7, 

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 20, ﬁBusiness Segment 

Reporting,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Primary Market Areas

Through its principal subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, the Company offers a full line of financial services for consumers and 

businesses including deposit, credit, mortgage banking, and trust and investment services. Additional subsidiaries provide  

asset management, securities brokerage, and capital market services. SunTrust operates primarily within Florida, Georgia, 

Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and the District of Columbia and enjoys strong market positions 

in these markets. In certain businesses, SunTrust also operates in select markets nationally. SunTrust provides clients with a 

selection of branch-based and technology-based banking channels, including the internet, mobile, ATMs, and telebanking. 

SunTrust's client base encompasses a broad range of individuals and families, businesses, institutions, and governmental 

agencies. Within its geographic footprint, SunTrust operated the following business segments during 2013, with the remainder 

in Corporate Other: Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management, Wholesale Banking, and Mortgage Banking.

Acquisition and Disposition Activity

As part of its operations, the Company evaluates, when deemed appropriate, the potential acquisition of financial institutions 

and other business types eligible for financial holding company ownership or control. Additionally, the Company regularly 

analyzes the values of and may submit bids for assets of such financial institutions and other businesses. The Company may 

also consider the potential disposition of certain of its assets, branches, subsidiaries, or lines of businesses.
The Company entered into an agreement for the sale of its Ridgeworth asset management subsidiary during the fourth quarter 

of 2013, which it expects will close in the second quarter of 2014. During 2012 and 2011, the Company acquired the assets 

of an online lender, and the Company's PWM business acquired the assets and liabilities of an asset manager, respectively. 

Additional information on these acquisitions and dispositions is included in Note 2, ﬁAcquisitions/Dispositions,ﬂ to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Government Supervision and Regulation
As a bank holding company and a financial holding company, the Company is subject to the regulation and supervision of 

the Federal Reserve, and as a Georgia-chartered bank holding company, by the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. 

The Company's banking subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, is a Georgia state-chartered bank with branches in Georgia, Florida, the 

District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, West Virginia, Mississippi, 

and Arkansas. SunTrust Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is regulated by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, 

and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance.

The Company's banking subsidiary is subject to various requirements and restrictions under federal and state law, including 

requirements to maintain cash reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types and amounts of loans that may be made and 

the interest that may be charged thereon, and limitations on the types of investments that may be made and the types of service
s that may be offered. Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of SunTrust Bank and its subsidiaries. 

In addition to the impact of regulation, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve as 

it attempts to control the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy.

The Company's non-banking subsidiaries are regulated and supervised by various other regulatory bodies. For example, STRH 

is a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and is a FINRA member. STIS is also a broker-dealer and investment adviser 

registered with the SEC and a member of FINRA. RidgeWorth and several of RidgeWorth's subsidiaries are investment advisers 
2registered with the SEC. GenSpring is an investment adviser registered with the SEC and a member of the National Futures 
Association. Furthermore, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve may regulate and supervise any subsidiary of the 

Company to determine (i) the nature of the operations and financial condition of the company, (ii) the financial, operational 

and other risks of the company, (iii) the systems for monitoring and controlling such risks, and (iv) compliance with Title I 

of the Dodd-Frank Act.

The BHC Act limits the activities in which bank holding companies and their subsidiaries may engage. As a bank holding 

company that has elected to become a financial holding company, the Company may engage, in addition to activities ﬁclosely 

related to banking," in expanded securities activities, insurance sales, underwriting activities, and other financial activitie
s, and may also acquire securities firms and insurance companies, subject to certain conditions. The expanded activities in which 

the Company may engage are limited to those that are (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity, and/or (
ii) complimentary to a financial activity and which does not pose a risk to the safety and soundness of a depository institution 

or the financial system generally. To maintain its status as a financial holding company, the Company and its banking subsidiar
y must be ﬁwell capitalized,ﬂ and ﬁwell managedﬂ and must maintain at least a ﬁsatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating, failing which the 

Federal Reserve may, among other things, limit the Company™s ability to conduct these broader financial activities or, if the 

deficiencies persist, require the Company to divest the banking subsidiary. If the Company has not maintained a satisfactory 

CRA rating, the Company will not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in 

such activities, although the Company will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking.
There are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on bank holding companies and their depository institution 

subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of such
 depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event the depository institution becomes in danger of default or 

is in default, but are generally not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors. For example, pursuant to t
he Dodd-Frank Act and Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial strength to 

its subsidiary depository institutions and commit resources to support such institutions, which may include circumstances in 

which it might not otherwise do so. 
The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to an extensive regulatory framework of complex and comprehensive federal 

and state laws and regulations regulating the provision of banking and other financial services and other aspects of the 

Company™s businesses and operations. Regulation and regulatory oversight have increased significantly over the past three 

years, primarily as a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulatory 

requirements and oversight over banks and other financial institutions in a number of ways, among which are (i) creating the 

CFPB to regulate consumer financial products and services; (ii) creating the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify 

and impose additional regulatory oversight on large financial firms; (iii) granting orderly liquidation authority to the FDIC 

for the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the financial system of the U.S.; (iv) requiring financial in
stitutions to draft a resolution plan that contemplates the dissolution of the enterprise and submit that resolution plan to both the Fede
ral Reserve and the FDIC; (v) limiting debit card interchange fees; (vi) adopting certain changes to shareholder rights and 

responsibilities, including a shareholder ﬁsay on payﬂ vote on executive compensation; (vii) strengthening the SEC's powers 

to regulate securities markets; (viii) regulating OTC derivative markets; (ix) restricting variable-rate lending by requiring t
he ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years
 of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain 
other revisions; (x) changing the base upon which the deposit insurance assessment is assessed from deposits to, substantially,
 average consolidated assets minus equity, which likely increases the amount of the deposit insurance assessment collected 

from SunTrust Bank; and (xi) amending the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator 

compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations.
One of the more important changes instituted by the Dodd-Frank Act is the requirement for twice-annual stress tests of the 

Company and its bank. The performance of the Company under the stress tests and the CCAR determine the capital actions 

the Company will be permitted by its regulators to take, such as dividends and share repurchases. Due to the importance and 

intensity of the stress tests and the CCAR process, the Company has dedicated significant resources to comply with stress 

testing requirements. These changes have profoundly impacted our policies and procedures and will likely continue to do so 

as regulators adopt regulations going forward in accordance with the time table for enacting regulations set forth in the Dodd-

Frank Act.
The Dodd-Frank Act imposed a new regulatory regime for the OTC derivatives market, aimed at increasing transparency and 

reducing systemic risk in the derivative markets, such as requirements for central clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin,
 reporting, and recordkeeping. Jurisdiction is broadly shared by the CFTC for swaps and the SEC for security-based swaps. 

In 2012 and 2013, the CFTC finalized most of its core regulations, triggering a phased-in compliance period commencing in 

late 2012 and continuing throughout 2013. The Bank provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC and became 

subject to new substantive requirements, including trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct 

requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material 
3incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing of certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC, such as 
most interest rate swaps. While the SEC has proposed most of its core regulations for security-based swaps, most of its new 

requirements await final regulations and are expected to be similar to the CFTC rules for swaps. The Company's derivatives 

business is expected to become subject to additional substantive requirements, including margin requirements in excess of 

current market practice, increased capital requirements and exchange trading requirements. These new rules collectively will 

impose implementation and ongoing compliance requirements for the Company and will introduce additional legal risk, as a 

result of newly applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action.
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has the authority to liquidate certain financial holding companies that are determined 

to pose significant risks to the financial stability of the U.S. (ﬁcovered financial companiesﬂ). Under this scenario, the FDIC would exercise broad powers to take prompt corrective action to resolve problems with a covered financial company. The 

Dodd-Frank Act gives the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel substantial resolution authority, which may affect or alter 

the rights of creditors and investors in a resolution or distressed scenario. The FDIC may make risk-based assessments of all 

bank holding companies with total consolidated assets greater than $50 billion to recover losses incurred by the FDIC in 

exercising its authority to liquidate covered financial companies. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, bank holding companies 

with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more are required to submit resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and FDIC 

providing for the company's strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or failure. In September 2011, these agencies issued a joint final resolution plan rule implementing this requirement. The FDIC issued 

a separate such rule applicable to insured depository institutions of $50 billion or more in total assets. The Company and the 

Bank submitted their first resolution plans to these agencies in December 2013. If a plan is not approved, the Company™s and 

the Bank™s growth, activities, and operations may be restricted.

Most recently, federal regulators have finalized rules for the new capital requirements for financial institutions that include
 several changes to the way capital is calculated and how assets are risk-weighted, informed in part by the Basel Committee 

on Banking Supervision's Basel III revised international capital framework. The rules, summarized briefly below, will have 

a profound effect on the Company's level of capital, as well as the volatility of that capital, and may influence the types of 

business the Company may pursue and how the Company pursues business opportunities. Among other things, the final rules 

raise the required capital ratios, adding a new common equity ratio and capital buffers, and restrict what may constitute capit
al. Because the rules remain subject to interpretation in a number of important aspects, their ultimate effect on the Company is 

not yet known. The Company does, however, provide an estimate of what capital ratios would be in accordance with the 

capital portion, as well as the risk-weighting of assets, based upon the Company's interpretation of the final rules. See the 

Company's estimate of the proposed Basel III common equity Tier 1 capital ratio in the "Capital Resources" section of Item 

7, "MD&A," in this Form 10-K.
Capital Framework and Basel III
On July 9, 2013, the Federal Reserve jointly with other federal regulators published three final rules, generally consistent wi
th the three proposed rules published August 30, 2012, substantially implementing the Basel III accord for the U.S. banking 

system (the ﬁFinal Rulesﬂ). As applicable to the Company, the Final Rules make changes to regulatory capital levels, how 

regulatory capital is calculated, and how bank assets are risk-weighted. The Final Rules become effective starting January 1, 

2015. Among other things, the Final Rules generally include, among others, the following requirements applicable to the 

Company:Ł A new minimum CET 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; a Tier 1 capital ratio, with a numerator consisting of the sum of CET 
1 and ﬁAdditional Tier 1 capitalﬂ instruments meeting specified requirements, of 6.0%; and a total capital ratio, with 

a numerator consisting of the sum of CET 1, Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, of 8.0%.
Ł CET 1 is defined narrowly by requiring that most deductions or adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made 
to CET 1, and expanding the scope of the deductions or adjustments as compared to existing regulations.
Ł A 2.5% ﬁcapital conservation bufferﬂ to be phased-in starting January 1, 2016, added to the CET 1, Tier 1, and Total 
Capital ratios , effectively resulting upon full implementation in a minimum ratio of each of CET 1, Tier 1, and Total 

Capital of 7.0%, 8.5%, and 10.5%, respectively;Ł A significant increase to capital charges for certain commercial real estate loans determined to be ﬁhigh volatility 
real estate exposuresﬂ not involving a down payment of at least 15% of the ﬁas completedﬂ value of the property, 

which would apply, subject to certain exceptions, to a large array of commercial real estate loans, including small 

business loans and owner-occupied business properties; and
Ł Include unrealized gains and losses on all securities AFS in the calculation of CET 1, subject to a one-time election 
for securities AFS as a component of other AOCI, to allow the treatment of AOCI as currently treated for regulatory 

capital purposes. The Company intends to make such an election.
The capital conservation buffer is a buffer above the minimum levels designed to ensure that banks remain well-capitalized 

even in adverse economic scenarios. If a banking organization does not have the CET 1, Tier 1, and Total Capital minimum 
4ratios including the capital conservation buffer as described above, it will face constraints on capital distributions, share 

repurchases and redemptions, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. We believe the Company's and Bank's 

current capital levels already exceed these capital requirements, including the capital conservation buffer. See additional 

discussion of Basel III in the "Capital Resources" section of Item 7, "MD&A," in this Form 10-K.
Liquidity Ratios under Basel III
Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory 

matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III framework requires banks 

and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity ratios that, although similar in some respects
 to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward 
will be required by regulation. One ratio, referred to as the LCR, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains 

sufficient liquidity under an acute 30-day liquidity stress scenario. Specifically, the bank must maintain a level of unencumbe
red high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to projected cash outflows under stress, where the outflows are the greater of (i) the entity's expected net cash outflow or (ii) 25% of its expected total cash outflow. The other ratio, referred to as the 
NSFR, is designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities 

of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. To comply with these requirements, banks will take a number of actions 

which may include increasing their asset holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt, increasing the use of 

long-term debt as a funding source, and adopting new business practices that may limit the provision of liquidity to clients. 

The LCR is subject to an observation period that began in 2011, but will be phased-in as a requirement beginning January 1, 

2015. In October 2013, the Federal Reserve issued an NPR to implement the LCR proposal, which in certain respects is more 

restrictive than the Basel III LCR. The LCR NPR provides for a modified LCR to apply to BHCs with over $50 billion in 

assets such as the Company, which measures the cumulative net cash outflows at the end of a 21-day period and generally 

sets the cash outflow parameters at 70% of those applicable to larger institutions. At this time, international regulatory auth
orities are still assessing the NSFR and it is unclear when the NSFR will be introduced as a requirement. These new standards are 

subject to further rulemaking, and their terms may change before implementation.
Other Regulation

The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to 
U.S. banking organizations. Additionally, these regulatory agencies may require that a banking organization maintain capital 

above the minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. The Federal Reserve 

risk-based guidelines define a tier-based capital framework. Tier 1 capital includes common shareholders' equity, trust preferr
ed securities, certain non-controlling interests and qualifying preferred stock, less goodwill (net of any qualifying DTL) and oth
er adjustments. Beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will no longer be included in Tier 1 after a three-year phase-out. 

Tier 2 capital consists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, mandatorily convertible debt, limited amounts of 

subordinated debt, other qualifying term debt, the allowance for credit losses up to a certain amount and a portion of the 

unrealized gain on equity securities. The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital represents the Company's qualifying total capital. 

Risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing Tier 1 and total capital by RWAs. Assets and off-balance sheet exposures 

are assigned to one of four categories of risk-weights, based primarily on relative credit risk. Additionally, the Company, and
 any bank with significant trading activity, must incorporate a measure for market risk in their regulatory capital calculations
. The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average total assets. The Federal Reserve also requires
 the Company to calculate, report, and maintain certain levels of Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity is calculated 

by taking Tier 1 capital and subtracting certain elements, including perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, non-control
ling interests in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatorily convertible preferred securities. Under the final rules, 
as discussed above, the capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks will increase substantially.

The federal banking agencies have broad powers with which to require companies to take prompt corrective action to resolve 

problems of insured depository institutions. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institutions in question are 

ﬁwell capitalized,ﬂ ﬁadequately capitalized,ﬂ ﬁundercapitalized,ﬂ ﬁsignificantly undercapitalizedﬂ or ﬁcritically 

undercapitalizedﬂ as such terms are defined under regulations issued by each of the federal banking agencies under the FDICIA 

including progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management, and capital distributions. Failure to meet the 

capital guidelines could also subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An ﬁundercapitalizedﬂ bank must 

develop a capital restoration plan and its parent holding company must guarantee that bank's compliance with the plan. The 

liability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of the bank's assets at the 

time it became ﬁundercapitalizedﬂ or the amount needed to comply with the plan. The final capital rules described above 

amended the prompt corrective action framework to include the new CET 1 capital measure and higher minimum capital 

requirements, effective January 1, 2015, such that the minimum CET 1, Tier 1 risk-based, and total risk based measures 

required to be ﬁadequately capitalizedﬂ will be 4.5%, 6.0%, and 8.0%, respectively, ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ, will be at least 2.0% 

higher in each respective category, and the minimum standard leverage ratio to be adequately capitalized and well-capitalized 

will be 4.0% and 5.0%, respectively. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee 
5would take priority over the parent's general unsecured creditors. Additionally, FDICIA requires the various regulatory agencie
s to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset 

quality, and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet such 

standards. 
Regulators also must take into consideration: (i) concentrations of credit risk; (ii) interest rate risk (when the interest rat
e sensitivity of an institution's assets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or its off-balance sheet position); an
d (iii) risks 
from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution's ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an
 institution's capital. Regulators make this evaluation as a part of their regular examination of the institution's safety and 

soundness. Additionally, regulators may choose to examine other factors in order to evaluate the safety and soundness of 

financial institutions. The Federal Reserve recently announced that its approval of certain capital actions, such as dividend 

increases and stock repurchase, will be tied to the level of CET 1, and that bank holding companies must consult with the 

Federal Reserve's staff before taking any actions, such as stock repurchases, capital redemptions, or dividend increases, which
 might result in a diminished capital base.
In addition, there are various legal and regulatory limits on the extent to which the Company's subsidiary bank may pay 

dividends or otherwise supply funds to the Company. Federal and state bank regulatory agencies also have the authority to 

prevent a bank or bank holding company from paying a dividend or engaging in any other activity that, in the opinion of the 

agency, would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event of the ﬁliquidation or other resolutionﬂ of an insured 

depository institution, the FDIA provides that the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as
 subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority 

over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured 

depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the parent 

bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution.

The FDIC insures deposit accounts up to $250,000. It provides this insurance through the DIF, which the FDIC maintains by 

assessing depository institutions an insurance premium. The amount each institution was assessed prior to April 1, 2011 was 

based upon statutory factors that include the average balance of insured deposits as well as the degree of risk the institution
 poses to the insurance fund. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC changed how it assesses insurance premiums. Beginning 

April 1, 2011, the FDIC began assessing deposit insurance premiums on the basis of a depository institution's average 

consolidated net assets and not its deposits. Additionally, the FDIC introduced changes to the method by which it determines 

each depository institution's insurance premium rate to include a variety of factors that translate into a complex scorecard. 

These changes were in addition to previous changes related to pre-funding insurance premiums. 
FDIC regulations require that management report annually on its responsibility for preparing its institution's financial 

statements, establishing and maintaining an internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting, and compliance 

with designated laws and regulations concerning safety and soundness.
The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which is separated into five units: Research, Community Affairs, Complaint Tracking 

and Collection, Office of Fair Lending and Equal Opportunity, and Office of Financial Literacy. The CFPB has broad power 

to adopt new regulations to protect consumers, which power it may exercise at its discretion and so long as it advances the 

general concept of the protection of consumers. In particular, such regulations may further restrict the Company's banking 

subsidiary from collecting overdraft fees or limit the amount of overdraft fees that may be collected by the Company's banking 

subsidiary beyond the limits imposed by the 2009 amendments to Regulation E discussed below.

Federal banking regulators, as required under the GLB Act, have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial
 institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of 

privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal 

information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitte
d through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors.
There are limits and restrictions on transactions in which the Bank and its subsidiaries may engage with the Company and 

other Company subsidiaries. Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve's Regulation W, among 

other things, govern the terms and conditions and limit the amount of extensions of credit by the Bank and its subsidiaries to 

the Company and other Company subsidiaries, purchases of assets by the Bank and its subsidiaries from the Company and 

other Company subsidiaries, and the amount of collateral required to secure extensions of credit by the Bank and its subsidiari
es to the Company and other Company subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly enhanced and expanded the scope and 

coverage of the limitations imposed by Sections 23A and 23B, in particular, by including within its scope derivative transactio
ns by and between the Bank or its subsidiaries and the Company or other Company subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve enforces 

the terms of 23A and 23B and audits the enterprise for compliance.
6In October 2011, the Federal Reserve and other regulators jointly issued a proposed rule implementing requirements of a new 

Section 13 to the BHC Act, commonly referred to as the ﬁVolcker Rule.ﬂ The regulatory agencies released final implementing 

regulations on December 10, 2013, providing for an extended conformance date through July 21, 2015. The Volcker Rule 

generally prohibits the Company and its subsidiaries from (i) engaging in proprietary trading for its own account, (ii) acquiri
ng or retaining an ownership interest in or sponsoring a ﬁcovered fund,ﬂ and (iii) entering into certain relationships with a ﬁcov
ered fund,ﬂ all subject to certain exceptions. The Volcker Rule also specifies certain limited activities in which the Company and 

its subsidiaries may continue to engage. 
The Volcker Rule will further restrict and limit the types of activities in which the Company and its subsidiaries may engage. 

Moreover, it will require the Company and its subsidiaries to adopt complex compliance monitoring and reporting systems 

in order to assure compliance with the rule while engaging in activities that the Company and its subsidiaries currently conduc
t.The Patriot Act substantially broadened existing anti-money laundering legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
 U.S. It imposes compliance and due diligence obligations; creates crimes and penalties; compels the production of documents 

located both inside and outside the U.S., including those of non-U.S. institutions that have a correspondent relationship in th
e U.S.; and clarifies the safe harbor from civil liability to clients. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations that 

further clarify the Patriot Act's requirements or provide more specific guidance on their application. The Patriot Act requires
 all ﬁfinancial institutions,ﬂ as defined, to establish certain anti-money laundering compliance and due diligence programs. 

The Patriot Act requires financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts for non-U.S. institutions, or persons that
 are involved in private banking for ﬁnon-U.S. personsﬂ or their representatives, to establish, ﬁappropriate, specific and, wher
e necessary, enhanced due diligence policies, procedures, and controls that are reasonably designed to detect and report instance
s of money laundering through those accounts.ﬂ Recently the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which drafts regulations 

implementing the Patriot Act and other anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act legislation, proposed a rule that would 

require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to all legal entities with which such 

institutions conduct business. The scope and compliance requirements of such a rule have yet to be formalized or completed. 

Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and the Company continues to enhance 

its anti-money laundering compliance programs.
During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Federal Reserve's final rules related to debit card interchange fees became effective. 

These rules significantly limit the amount of interchange fees that the Company may charge for electronic debit transactions. 

Similarly, in 2009, the Federal Reserve adopted amendments to its Regulation E that restrict the Company's ability to charge 

its clients overdraft fees for ATM and everyday debit card transactions. Pursuant to the adopted regulation, clients must opt-

in to an overdraft service in order for banks to collect overdraft fees. Overdraft fees have in the past represented a signific
ant amount of noninterest fees collected by the Company's banking subsidiary. The CFPB also has amended Regulation E to 

impose certain disclosure and other requirements on the Company™s provision of electronic funds transfer services for U.S. 

consumers to recipients in other countries.
Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, and, as amended by the Dodd-Frank 

Act, bank holding companies from any state may acquire banks located in any other state, subject to certain conditions, 

including concentration limits. Additionally, a bank may establish branches across state lines by merging with a bank in anothe
r state subject to certain restrictions. A bank holding company may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of 

more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any bank or merge or consolidate with another bank 

holding company without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company 

may not acquire another bank or engage in new activities that are financial in nature or acquire a non-bank company that 

engages in activities that are financial in nature unless the bank holding company is both "well capitalized" and deemed by 

the Federal Reserve to be "well managed." Moreover, a bank and its affiliates may not, after the acquisition of another bank, 

control more than 10% of the amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S., and a financial company may 

not merge, consolidate or acquire another company if the total consolidated liabilities of the acquiring financial company afte
r such acquisition exceeds 10% of the aggregated consolidated liabilities of all financial companies at the end of the year 

preceding the transaction. Additionally, certain states may have limitations on the amount of deposits any bank may hold 

within that state.
On July 21, 2010, the Federal Reserve and other regulators jointly published final guidance for structuring incentive 

compensation arrangements at financial organizations. The guidance does not set forth any formulas or pay caps for, but 

contains certain principles which companies are required to follow with respect to employees and groups of employees that 

may expose the company to material amounts of risk. The three primary principles are (i) balanced risk-taking incentives, 

(ii) compatibility with effective controls and risk management, and (iii) strong corporate governance. The Federal Reserve 

will monitor compliance with this guidance as part of its safety and soundness oversight.7Competition
The Company's primary operating footprint is in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S., though certain lines of business serve 

broader, national markets. Within those markets the Company faces competition from domestic and foreign lending institutions 

and numerous other providers of financial services. The Company competes using a client-centered model that focuses on 

high quality service, while offering a broad range of products and services. The Company believes that this approach better 

positions it to increase loyalty and expand relationships with current clients and attract new ones. Further, the Company 

maintains a strong presence within select markets, thereby enhancing its competitive position.
While the Company believes it is well positioned within the highly competitive industry, the industry could become even 

more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, economic, and technological changes, as well as continued 

consolidation. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks 

has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to many of the same regulatory 

restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. 

However, non-banking financial institutions may not have the same access to deposit funds or government programs and, as 

a result, those non-banking financial institutions may elect, as some have done, to become financial holding companies and 

gain such access. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire 

banks and other financial institutions. This could alter the competitive environment in which the Company conducts business. 

Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial resources or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these 

various sources of competition, the Company could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services 

on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients.
Employees
At December 31, 2013, the Company had 26,281 full-time equivalent employees. See additional information in the "Executive 

Overview" section of this Form 10-K.
Additional Information
See also the following additional information which is incorporated herein by reference: Business Segments (under the captions 

ﬁBusiness Segmentsﬂ and "Business Segment Results" in Item 7, in the MD&A of this Form 10-K, and ﬁBusiness Segment 

Reportingﬂ in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data); 

Net Interest Income (under the captions ﬁNet Interest Income/Marginﬂ in the MD&A and ﬁSelected Financial Dataﬂ in Item 6); 

Securities (under the caption ﬁSecurities Available for Saleﬂ in the MD&A and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements);
 Loans and Leases (under the captions ﬁLoansﬂ, ﬁAllowance for Credit Lossesﬂ, and ﬁNonperforming Assetsﬂ in the MD&A 

and ﬁLoansﬂ and ﬁAllowance for Credit Lossesﬂ in Notes 6 and 7, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements); 

Deposits (under the caption ﬁDepositsﬂ in the MD&A); Short-Term Borrowings (under the caption ﬁShort-Term Borrowingsﬂ 

in the MD&A and ﬁBorrowings and Contractual Commitmentsﬂ in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements); Trading 

Activities and Trading Assets and Liabilities (under the caption ﬁTrading Assets and Liabilities and Derivativesﬂ in the MD&A 

and ﬁTrading Assets and Liabilities and Derivativesﬂ and ﬁFair Value Election and Measurementﬂ in Notes 4 and 18, 

respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements); Market Risk Management (under the caption ﬁMarket Risk 

Managementﬂ in the MD&A); Liquidity Risk Management (under the caption ﬁLiquidity Risk Managementﬂ in the MD&A); 

Credit Risk Management (under the caption "Credit Risk Management" in the MD&A); and Operational Risk Management 

(under the caption ﬁOperational Risk Managementﬂ in the MD&A).
SunTrust's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments 

to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on the 

Company's web site at www.suntrust.com under the Investor Relations section as soon as reasonably practicable after the 
Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains 

reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The 

SEC's web site address is www.sec.gov. In addition, SunTrust makes available on its website at 
www.suntrust.com under the 
heading Corporate Governance: (i) its Code of Ethics; (ii) its Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charters of 

SunTrust Board committees.

The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K is being distributed to shareholders in lieu of a separate annual report containing 

financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries.8Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS

The risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we 

presently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, 

business, and prospects.
As one of the largest lenders in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S. and a provider of financial products and services 

to consumers and businesses across the U.S., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected 

by general economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and home prices in the U.S., and a deterioration of 

economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and 

our financial results and condition.

We generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell, and a substantia
l amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer, 

wholesale, and mortgage banking businesses. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the 

state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has continued to 

gradually improve from the severely depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth and improvement in the 

housing market have been modest. In addition, financial uncertainty stemming from U.S. debt and budget matters, as well as 

the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform and its effect on the revenues of financial services companies such as 

us, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. A prolonged period of slow growth 

in the U.S. economy or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above 

matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery, could materially adversely 

affect our financial results and condition.

If unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and 

provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer 

loan performance but also C&I and CRE loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or propertie
s that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. The ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, 

causing us to incur significantly higher credit losses. In addition, current economic conditions have made it more challenging 

for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. 

If economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, then a decrease in 

consumer and business confidence and spending are likely, which may reduce demand for our credit products, which would 

adversely affect our interest and fee income and our earnings.

A deterioration in business and economic conditions that erodes consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased 

volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our weal
th management, investment advisory, and investment banking businesses. We earn fee income from managing assets for others 

and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. Because investment management 
fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce 

our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other 

fees we earn from our brokerage business. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can 

adversely affect our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses.

Legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require 

us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely 

affect our business operations and/or competitive position.

We are heavily regulated by federal and state agencies. This regulation is to protect depositors, the federal DIF and the banki
ng system as a whole. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review 

banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, includi
ng interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types
 of 
financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services 

and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and 

damage to our reputation.
Regulation of the financial services industry has increased significantly since the global financial crisis. The regulation is 

focused on the protection of depositors, FDIC funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, rather than our  

shareholders, and may be adverse to the interests of our shareholders. We are subject to significant regulation under state and
 federal laws in the U.S., including new legislation and rule-making promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act. Increased 

supervision, reporting, and significant new and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in other 

jurisdictions outside of the U.S. where we conduct business may affect the manner in which we do business and the products 
9and services that we provide, and may affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to ent
er into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on 
us, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, (i) established a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic 

risk posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced FRB regulations, including significant changes to capital 

and liquidity requirements, on certain large, interconnected bank holding companies and systemically significant nonbanking 

firms intended to promote financial stability, and gives the Financial Stability Oversight Council substantial resolution autho
rity that may affect or alter the rights of creditors and investors in a resolution scenario; (ii) created a liquidation framework f
or the resolution of covered financial companies, the costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving covered 

financial companies; (iii) made significant changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and activities
 in a variety of areas, including prohibiting proprietary trading and private fund activities, subject to certain exceptions; (i
v) created a new framework for the regulation of OTC derivatives and new regulations for the securitization market and 

strengthened the regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets by the SEC; (v) established the CFPB, which has broad 

powers to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of comprehensive consumer financial regulation; (vi) 
provided for increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (vii) revised the FDIC's assessment base for deposit 

insurance by changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system based on consolidated 

total assets minus average tangible equity, and also allows the Federal Reserve to assess additional fees for systemic risk 

oversight, and (vii) authorized the FRB under the Durbin Amendment to issue regulations establishing, among other things, 

standards for assessing whether debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers are reasonable and proportional to 

the costs incurred by issuers for electronic debit transactions. 
A significant number of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act still require extensive rulemaking and interpretation by regulator
y authorities. In several cases, authorities have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in 

many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and SunTrust will not 

be known for an extended period of time. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing 

its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our bu
siness practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital and liquidity requirements and impo
se additional assessments and costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative 

consequences. For example, on October 1, 2011, final rules issued by the Federal Reserve became effective which limit the 

fees we can charge for debit card interchange, and this has reduced our noninterest income. The ultimate status of these rules 

is uncertain as merchants brought suit against the Federal Reserve in 2012 challenging the rules. The Federal Reserve has 

appealed a lower court finding that set aside the rules. In addition, several recent legislative and regulatory initiatives wer
e adopted that have had an impact on our businesses and financial results, including FRB and CFPB amendments to Regulation 

E which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees and our provision of electronic funds transfer 

services for U.S. consumers to recipients in other countries. We also implemented policy changes to help customers limit 

overdraft and returned item fees. These reduced our fee revenue.

The Dodd-Frank Act also established the CFPB, which has authority to regulate, among other things, unfair, deceptive, or 

abusive acts or practices. The CFPB has been active in rule-making and enforcement activity, and already has imposed 

substantial fines on other financial institutions. Among its other consumer-protective initiatives, the CFPB has placed 

significant emphasis on consumer complaint management. The CFPB has established a public consumer complaint database 

to encourage consumers to file complaints they may have against financial institutions, which the CFPB may use to focus 

enforcement actions and for rule-making. In addition, each financial institution is expected to maintain an effective consumer 

complaint management program. Further, in 2013 the CFPB released final regulations under Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank 

Act in 2013 further regulating the origination of mortgages and addressing "ability to repay" standards, loan officer 

compensation, appraisal disclosures, HOEPA triggers and other matters. The "ability to repay" rule, in particular, has the 

potential to significantly affect our business since it provides a borrower with a defense to foreclosure unless the lender 

established the borrower's ability to repay, or that the loan was a "qualified mortgage" or met other exceptions to the rule. 

While qualified mortgages may provide certain safe harbors, the extent of these safe harbors remains unclear. Our business 

strategy, product offerings, and profitability may be affected by CFPB rules and may change as these and other rules are 

developed, become effective, and are interpreted by the regulators and courts.

The Dodd-Frank Act (through provisions commonly known as the ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ) prohibits banking entities from engaging 

in certain types of proprietary trading and restricts their ability to sponsor, invest in, or have certain relationships with ﬁ
covered fundsﬂ such as private equity funds, hedge funds or other similar private investment vehicles. The Volcker Rule became 

effective on July 21, 2012 in advance of the finalization of the implementing regulations by the relevant regulatory agencies. 

These regulatory agencies issued guidance during the automatic two year conformance period which commenced on July 21, 

2012, providing that banking entities should engage in good-faith planning efforts to enable them to comply with the Volcker 

Rule and any final implementing regulations by no later than the end of that two year period. They also clarified that these 
10good-faith efforts should include an assessment of which banking entity activities are covered by the Volcker Rule and any 

final implementing regulations and development of a plan to conform these activities to the Volcker Rule/final implementing 

regulations by July 21, 2014, which was the original conformance date. We have undertaken such good faith planning efforts. 

The regulatory agencies released final implementing regulations on December 10, 2013, which extended the conformance 

date and good faith planning requirements to July 21, 2015. Although we do not have a designated proprietary trading operation,
 the scope of the proprietary trading prohibition and its impact on us depends on certain definitions in the final implementing 

regulations, particularly those definitions related to exemptions for market making, hedging activities and customer trading. 
While we are assessing the impact of the final regulations, we believe that the impact to revenues associated with the Volcker 

Rule will be immaterial. The final regulations will also require us to establish and maintain an internal compliance program 

to monitor and assure compliance with the Volcker Rule, which will impose ongoing compliance costs on us.

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new regulatory framework for the U.S. OTC derivatives markets with jurisdiction being broadly 

shared by the CFTC for swaps and the SEC for security-based swaps. In 2012 and 2013, the CFTC finalized most of its core 

regulations triggering a phased-in compliance period commencing in late 2012 and continuing throughout 2013. In 2013, 

SunTrust Bank provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC and became subject to new substantive requirements, 

including trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, 

disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandat
ory clearing of certain standardized swaps designated by the CFTC, such as most interest rate swaps. While the SEC has proposed 

most of its core regulations for security-based swaps, most of its new requirements await final regulations and are expected 

to be similar to the CFTC rules for swaps. Moreover, we expect our derivatives business will become subject to additional 

substantive requirements, including margin requirements in excess of current market practice, increased capital requirements 

and exchange trading requirements. These new rules collectively will impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens 

on us and will introduce additional legal risk, including as a result of newly applicable anti-fraud and anti-manipulation 

provisions and private rights of action. 
Additionally, the relevant regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act provisions requiring 

retention of risk by certain securitization participants through holding interests in the securitization vehicles, but the rule
s are not yet finalized or effective. As a result, the ultimate impact of these Dodd-Frank Act provisions on us remains unpredictable
. The impact on us could be direct, by requiring us to hold interests in a securitization vehicle or other assets that represent 
a portion of the credit risk held by the securitization vehicle, or indirect, by impacting markets in which we participate. Since
 the beginning of the financial crisis, there has been and continues to be substantially less private (that is, non-government 

backed) securitization activity than had previously been the case. It is unclear at present whether and to what extent the priv
ate securitization markets will rebound. In recent years we have only engaged in securitization transactions to a limited extent 

under circumstances where we might expect to be required to retain additional risk on our balance sheet as a result of 

implementation of these Dodd-Frank Act provisions. If the market for private securitizations rebounds and we decide to 

increase our participation in that market, we would likely be required under the regulations to retain more risk than would 

otherwise have been the case, with currently uncertain financial impact. In addition, other securitization reforms mandated 

by the Dodd-Frank Act or implemented or proposed by the SEC may have the effect of limiting our ability to execute, or 

increase the cost of, securitization transactions. The impact of such reforms on our business is uncertain and difficult to 

quantify.

In February 2011, the White House delivered a report to Congress regarding proposals to reform the housing finance market 

in the U.S. The report, among other things, outlined various potential proposals to wind down the GSEs and reduce or eliminate 

over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as proposals to 
implement reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum 

size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving 

underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. The extent and timing 

of any regulatory reform regarding the GSEs and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on our business and financial 

results, are uncertain. 
Additionally, legislation or regulation may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult 

to predict. For example, some commentators have expressed a view that proposed liquidity requirements, which will require 

certain banks to hold more liquid securities, may have the unintended consequence of reducing the size of the trading markets 

for such securities and thereby reduce liquidity in those markets.
Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operation
s, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. For additional information, see the 

ﬁGovernment Supervision and Regulationﬂ section in this Form 10-K.11We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition 

would be adversely affected.
Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we, together with our banking subsidiary 

and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulat
ors about components, risk weightings, and other factors. 
In July 2013, the Federal Reserve issued final capital rules that replace existing capital adequacy rules and implement Basel 
III and certain requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final capital rules consolidate and largely adopt unchanged 

the three proposals included in the June 2012 regulatory capital rules NPR. When fully phased-in, these rules will result in 

higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. Under the final rules, our capital requiremen
ts will increase and the risk-weighting of many of our assets will change. 
Under the final capital rules, Tier 1 capital will consist of CET 1 capital and additional Tier 1 capital, with Tier 1 capital 
plus Tier 2 capital constituting total risk-based capital. The required minimum capital requirements will be a CET 1 ratio of 4.5%; 

a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, and a total capital ratio of 8%. In addition, a Tier 1 leverage ratio to average consolidated ass
ets of 4% will apply. Further, we will be required to maintain a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of additional CET 1. If we 

do not maintain the capital conservation buffer once it is fully phased in, then our ability to pay dividends and discretionary
 bonuses and to make share repurchases will be restricted. We will be required to comply with the minimum regulatory capital 

ratios as of January 1, 2015, which also starts the transition period for other requirements of the final rules and the capital
 conservation buffer. We have estimated our regulatory capital under Basel III under the final rules, and we provide that estima
te and a reconcilement to U.S. GAAP in Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual" in Item 7, "MD&A", 

in this Form 10-K. Note that this estimate is consistent with our interpretation of the final rule and ambiguities in the final
 rule or other interpretations of the final rule could result in a larger measure of RWAs and consequently a lower CET 1 capital
 ratio. If risk weightings of certain assets change, and we are required to hold increased amounts of capital as a result of hol
ding those assets, the profitability of those assets and businesses may change, and longer-term this may result in changes in our 

business mix.
The final rules will also gradually eliminate the contribution to Tier 1 capital of certain trust preferred and certain other h
ybrid debt securities currently included in Tier 1 capital. These securities will lose Tier 1 capital status under the phased-in appr
oach between 2013 and 2016, but will qualify for Tier 2 capital treatment. At December 31, 2013, we had $627 million principal 

amount of such securities outstanding.
Additionally, the Basel III framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific 

liquidity tests, including a LCR, which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-

quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a specified time horizon under an acu
te liquidity stress scenario, and a NSFR, designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity 

characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. In October 2013, the FRB, jointl
y with other federal banking regulators, issued an NPR to implement the LCR. These proposed rules are more stringent than 

the Basel III LCR in several respects, including, among other things, requirements for holding certain high quality liquid 

assets. The LCR NPR provides for a modified LCR to apply to BHCs with over $50 billion in assets such as us, which generally 

sets the cash outflow parameters at 70% of those applicable to larger institutions. At this time, international regulatory auth
orities are still assessing the NSFR and it is unclear when the NSFR will be introduced as a requirement. In order to meet future 

LCR, we may alter the composition of our investment portfolio and/or balance sheet composition and this may adversely 

affect our earnings. Under the proposed rule, banking organizations will be required to  comply with the LCR during a phase-

in period beginning January 1, 2015.
Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB issued a final capital plan rule effective in December 2011, which requires large 

bank holding companies, such as us, to submit annual capital plans to the FRB for review and non-objection as part of CCAR. 

Pursuant to this rule, we annually submit a capital plan to the FRB. As part of CCAR, the FRB evaluates banking organizations' 

capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions. Under the 

Dodd-Frank Act, we must also conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests and disclose certain information regarding the 

results of these stress tests.
CCAR includes a supervisory stress test to support the FRB's analysis of the adequacy of banking organizations' capital. Our 

capital planning under CCAR requires an analysis of capital management and capital adequacy under a variety of hypothetical 

stressed economic scenarios. Our performance under CCAR's hypothetical scenarios dictates the capital actions the FRB will 

allow us to take, such as dividends and share repurchases. In addition to the quantitative requirements of CCAR, the FRB 

also evaluates the qualitative aspects of our capital management program, which can also impact our capital actions. Due to 
the importance and intensity of the CCAR process, we have dedicated additional resources to comply with CCAR, although 

no assurance can be provided that these resources will be deemed sufficient or that we will be deemed to have adequate capital 

under CCAR's hypothetical scenarios. There can be no assurance that the FRB will respond favorably to our pending and 
12future capital plan reviews. If we are deemed to have inadequate capital under CCAR's hypothetical scenarios, then the FRB 

may prohibit us from taking certain capital actions, such as paying or increasing dividends or repurchasing capital stock.
The Basel standards and FRB regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our 

capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. 

Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as Tier 

1 capital, or increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity, could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our bus
iness and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. Although not currently anticipated, the proposed 

Basel capital rules and/or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common 

stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. Further, even if the FRB approves a capital plan which we submit 

under CCAR, such approval would not mean that other limitations do not exist on our ability to pay or increase dividends or 

repurchase stock.
The need to maintain more capital and greater liquidity than has been historically required could limit our business activities
, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. It could also depress our return on 

equity, thereby making it more difficult to earn our cost of capital. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require us
 to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets 

even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. Moreover, although these new requirements are being 

phased in over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks 

to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such 

as dividend increases and acquisitions.
Loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs.

We rely heavily on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. We compete with banks 

and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs
 may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more 

expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. 

We rely on the mortgage secondary market and GSEs for some of our liquidity.

We sell most of the mortgage loans we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. We rely 

on GSEs to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. We rely on other capital markets investors to purchase 

non-conforming loans (i.e., loans that do not meet GSE requirements). Since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming loans 

has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity of those loans. In response to the reduced liquidity i
n the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans, negatively impacting reserves, or we may originate less 

negatively impacting revenue. When we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive 

any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. A persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and 

thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot 

provide assurance that GSEs will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change 

their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). As previously noted, proposals have 

been presented to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. 

The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, as well as any effect 

on our business and financial results, are uncertain.
Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.

Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended 

to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit r
isk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as 

with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or 

develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. The recent financial and credit crisis a
nd resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If 

our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely 

affected.

We are subject to credit risk.

When we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur 

credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform accord
ing 
to the terms of their contracts. A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases an
d lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for 

sale. As one of the nation's largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings
. We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credi
t 13commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and comple
x judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our 

borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to ident
ify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify.

We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved
. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher 

unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. As an example, borrowers may discontinue making 

payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still 

financially able to make the payments.
While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that it will 

be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of 

significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would 

reduce our earnings. For additional information, see the ﬁRisk Management-Credit Risk Managementﬂ and ﬁCritical 

Accounting Policies-Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ sections in the MD&A in this Form 10-K.

Our ALLL may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses.

Like other financial institutions, we maintain an ALLL to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. Our ALLL is based 

on our historical loss experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks associated with our loan portfolio, including the size
 and composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The 

current economic conditions in the U.S. and in our markets could deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, greate
r than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio or in the value of collateral securing these loans. Our ALL
L may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect 

our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we 

sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to 

continue servicing the debt. If such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we 

may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of ALLL associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional 

provision for loan losses.
On December 20, 2012, the FASB issued for public comment a Proposed ASU, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Subtopic 

825-15) (the Credit Loss Proposal), that would substantially change the accounting for credit losses under U.S. GAAP. Under 

U.S. GAAP's current standards, credit losses are not reflected in the financial statements until it is probable that the credit
 loss 
has been incurred. Under the Credit Loss Proposal, an entity would reflect in its financial statements its current estimate of 

credit losses on financial assets over the expected life of each financial asset. The Credit Loss Proposal, if adopted as propo
sed, may have a negative impact on our reported earnings, capital, regulatory capital ratios, as well as on regulatory limits which 

are based on capital (e.g., loans to affiliates) since it would accelerate the recognition of estimated credit losses.

We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, 

industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.

Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activi
ties or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. For example, 

we experienced the effect of concentration risk when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real estate 

loan portfolio due to the latest housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in 

many markets, particularly several Florida MSAs. As Florida is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, 

deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere could result in materially
 higher credit losses.  A deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in whic
h we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. For additional information, see the "Loans", "Allowance for Credit 

Losses", ﬁRisk Management-Credit Risk Managementﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policies-Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ 

sections in the MD&A and Notes 6 and 7, "Loans" and "Allowance for Credit Losses", to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

in this Form 10-K.
We will realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of NPAs are less than the carrying value of 

such assets.
NPAs are recorded on our financial statements at the estimated net realizable value that we expect to receive from ultimately 

disposing of the assets. We could realize losses in the future as a result of deteriorating market conditions if the proceeds w
e receive upon dispositions of NPAs are less than the carrying value of such assets.
14A downgrade in the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured 

or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic 

conditions that we are not able to predict.

On June 10, 2013, S&P reaffirmed its government bond rating of the U.S. at AA+, while also raising its outlook from ﬁNegativeﬂ 

to ﬁStable.ﬂ On July 18, 2013, Moody™s reaffirmed the government bond rating of the U.S. at Aaa, while raising the outlook 

from ﬁNegativeﬂ to ﬁStable.ﬂ On October 15, 2013, however, Fitch placed its AAA rating of U.S. government debt on ﬁRatings 

Watch Negative.ﬂ While the risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. government, including the rating of U.S. 

Treasury securities, has been reduced, the possibility still remains. It is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived 

creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. Instruments of this nature are key assets 

on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to m
eet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market.
A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-

related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affec
ting the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. 

We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will 

affect economic conditions. Such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. In addition, we presently 

deliver a material portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate into government-sponsored institutions, agencies or 

instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit 

ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. Such ratings actions, if any, c
ould result in a significant change to our mortgage business. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government 

or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to 
which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Weakness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected 

us and may continue to adversely affect us.
Weakness in the non-agency secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for and liquidity of many 

mortgage loans. These conditions have resulted in losses, write-downs and impairment charges in our mortgage and other 

lines of business. Declines in real estate values, low home sales volumes, financial stress on borrowers as a result of 

unemployment, interest rate resets on ARMs or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that could result 

in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or 

results of operations. Additionally, counterparties to insurance arrangements used to mitigate risk associated with increased 

defaults in the real estate market are stressed by weaknesses in the real estate market and a commensurate increase in the 

number of claims. Further, decreases in real estate values might adversely affect the creditworthiness of state and local 

governments, and this might result in decreased profitability or credit losses from loans made to such governments. A decline 

in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets 

which we own as a result of foreclosing a loan and our ability to realize value on such assets.
We are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. We may be required to repurchase mortgage 

loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower 

fraud, or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and 

financial condition. 
We originate and often sell mortgage loans. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization
, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner 

in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the 

event that we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans 

as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are 

required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our 

securitizations, whether or not we were the originator of the loan. While in many cases we may have a remedy available 

against the originating broker or correspondent, often these may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of 

mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial
 capacity to satisfy remedies that may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may 

not be able to recover our losses from the originating broker or correspondent. 
Since the beginning of 2006, we have received an elevated number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. 

These have resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. While we have taken steps to enhance our 

underwriting policies and procedures, these steps will not reduce risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase an
d indemnity demands increase materially, our results of operations may be adversely affected.
15During 2012, we recorded a $371 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses, primarily related to loans sold to the GSEs 

prior to 2009, and the resulting mortgage repurchase reserve reflected the estimated incurred losses on repurchase demands 

for this population of loans. In 2013, SunTrust reached agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to address outstanding 

and potential repurchase obligations, and reserved an additional $63 million. Accordingly, we expect that future mortgage 

repurchase provisions will decrease substantially from levels experienced in recent years. However, the 2013 agreements with 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac settling certain aspects of our repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases 

arising from certain types of events, and that preservation of rights can impact our future losses. We understand the FHFA™s 

Office of Inspector General has commenced an audit of the FHFA™s oversight of Fannie Mae™s and Freddie Mac™s exercise of 

their rights under settlement agreements with banks, including Fannie Mae™s and Freddie Mac™s preserved right to require 

repurchases when consumer protection laws have been violated. While the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of 

settling claims related to required repurchases, our estimate of losses depends on our assumptions regarding GSE and other 

counterparty behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. For additional information, see Note 17, ﬁGuarantees,ﬂ
 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, and the following sections of MD&A in this Form 10-

K-"Noninterest Incomeﬂ and "Critical Accounting Policies." 

We also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily 

GSEs. Typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from GSE service levels. In most 

cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. Additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an 

investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. While the number of such claims has been 

small, these could increase in the future. See additional discussion in Note 17, ﬁGuarantees,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial 

Statements in this Form 10-K. In addition to repurchase claims from the GSEs, we have received indemnification claims and 

in some cases, have been sued, by non-GSE purchasers of our loans. These claims allege that we sold loans that failed to 

conform to statements about their quality because of missing or inaccurate documentation, fraud by borrowers, or fraudulent 

or inflated appraisals. See additional discussion in Note 19, ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this
 Form 10-K.
We face certain risks as a servicer of loans. Also, we may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required 

to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, 

fines and other sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage 

loan foreclosure actions.

We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans 

owned by investors. As a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitiza
tion trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or,
 to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure 

such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans
 by the servicer. Generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. However, the
 costs to perform contracted-for services has been increasing, which reduces our profitability. Further, GSEs can amend their 

servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any correspondin
g increase in our servicing fee. Further, the CFPB has implemented national servicing standards which became effective on 

January 10, 2014 and which may further increase the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. In addition, 

there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and 

cost of our servicing obligations.
Further, if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if 

the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization 

trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may be required to 
indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our 

servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. For 
certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse 

the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we experience
 increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or
 increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve.
We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capaci
ty as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclos
ure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclos
ure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required 

process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the 

extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missi
ng or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur a liability to securitization inves
tors 16relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with 

state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be adversely affected to the extent our servicing costs 

increase because of higher foreclosure costs. Further, we may be subject to fines and other sanctions, including a foreclosure 

moratorium or suspension or a requirement to forgive or modify the loan obligations of certain of our borrowers, imposed by 

Federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure 

practices of other mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or adversely affect our residential 

mortgage origination or servicing business.
As a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. In 2013, we completed an 

expanded review of our servicing advance practices. Separately, we entered into an agreement to sell MSRs on approximately 

$1 billion of UPB of predominantly delinquent mortgage loans. As a result of the review and the MSR sale, we refined our 

loss estimates and valuation methodologies for servicing advances, resulting in a $96 million charge to our earnings during 

2013. 
In 2011, the FRB conducted a horizontal review of the nation's largest mortgage loan servicers, including us. Following this 

review, we and other servicers entered into a Consent Order with the FRB. We describe the Consent Order in Note 19, 

ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. The Consent Order required us to improve 

certain mortgage servicing and foreclosure processes and to retain an independent foreclosure consultant to conduct a review 

of residential foreclosure actions pending during 2009 and 2010 to identify any errors, misrepresentations or deficiencies, 

determine whether any instances so identified resulted in financial injury, and prepare a written report detailing the findings
. On January 7, 2013, we, along with nine other mortgage servicers, entered into an amendment to the Consent Order with the 

OCC and the FRB to amend the 2011 Consent Order. This agreement ended the independent foreclosure review process created 

by the Consent Order, replacing it with an accelerated remediation program. We have taken actions to satisfy our commitments 

under the amendment to the Consent Order, and our financial results at December 31, 2013 reflect the expected costs of 

satisfying our financial obligations under the amendment to the Consent Order.

As a result of the FRB's review of our residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing practices that preceded 

the Consent Order, the FRB announced that it would impose a $160 million civil money penalty. As permitted in the agreement 

with the FRB, we expect to satisfy the civil money penalty by providing consumer relief and certain cash payments as 

contemplated by such agreement. We also continue with settlement discussions with the U.S. and States Attorneys General 

related to mortgage servicing claims as discussed in Note 19, "Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in 

this Form 10-K. We have accrued for the anticipated cost of resolving these and other potential claims in our financial results
. Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may adversely affect our servicing and 

investment portfolios.
Our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance 

companies. To the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be 

required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, 

possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost 

of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other 

circumstances. Similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a mortgage
 insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if replac
ement coverage is not obtained. We also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. The 

value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be adversely affected by financial difficulties or 

credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers.
We are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process.

When we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults, our ultimate loss is mitigated 

by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. Our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans 

depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large
 number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. In some instances, our practices or failures 

to adhere to our policies have contributed to these delays. Any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by 

increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to 
losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral.
We face risks related to recent mortgage settlements.

On October 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle with the HUD and the U.S. DOJ (collectively, 

the ﬁGovernmentﬂ) to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from FHA-insured mortgage loans originated 

by STM from January 1, 2006 through March 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing 

and origination practices as part of the National Mortgage Servicing Settlement. Pursuant to the combined agreements in 
17principle, we have committed to provide $500 million of consumer relief, to make a $468 million cash payment, and to 

implement certain mortgage servicing standards.
We are continuing to negotiate definitive settlement terms for each of these matters and have certain substantive disagreements
 with some of the positions being taken by the Government. We may be unable to resolve our disagreements with the Government 

and may not reach a definitive settlement agreement as it relates to the FHA matter.  If we do not reach a definitive settlemen
t agreement, then the Government may sue us alleging deficiencies in our FHA loan origination practices.  We are not able to 

predict the effect that a failure to resolve the FHA matter will have on the agreement in principle to settle the alleged claim
s regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices. 
Our financial statements at December 31, 2013 reflected our estimated cost of the settlements, and we are not able to predict 

what our ultimate cost to resolve these matters will be if we are not able to reach definitive settlement agreements. Even if 

we were to reach a definitive settlement agreement with the Government to resolve the alleged mortgage servicing and 

origination claims as contemplated by the agreement in principle, we face the risk of being unable to meet certain consumer 
relief commitments, resulting in increased costs to resolve this matter. Additionally, while we do not expect the consumer 

relief efforts or implementation of certain servicing standards associated with the settlements to have a material impact on 

our future financial results, this expectation is based on anticipated requirements of the definitive agreements which the part
ies have not finalized. 
We may continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies and 

practices.
We seek to mitigate risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting policies and practices, which 

often include analysis of a borrower's credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation o
f collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and verification of liquid assets. Our underwriting policies, practices 

and standards are periodically reviewed and, if appropriate, enhanced in response to changing market conditions and/or 

corporate strategies. Examples include: client eligibility requirements, documentation requirements, loan types, collateral 

types, LTV ratios, and minimum credit scores. Prior reviews have resulted in more stringent documentation standards, lower 

maximum LTV ratios, and channel and client type restrictions. These actions have contributed to a reduction in exposure to 

certain higher risk portfolio segments, such as higher risk mortgage, home equity, and commercial construction. These actions 

have also contributed to declines in early stage delinquencies and NPLs. While these changes have resulted in improving asset 

quality metrics, elevated losses may continue to occur due to economic factors, changes in borrower behavior, or other factors.

Our mortgage production and servicing revenue can be volatile.

We earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the 

demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. Under the same 

conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase through reductions in the decay, or amortization, of the MSR asset. When 

rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and mortgage servicing income tends to decline given increases in 

the decay, or amortization, of the MSR asset. Even though the MSR asset can act as a ﬁnatural hedge,ﬂ the hedge is not perfect,
 nor is it designed to be, either in amount or timing. Servicing income can also be impacted by the change in the fair value of 

the MSR asset due to changes in market interest rates and other assumptions, exclusive of decay of the MSR asset. We use 

derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of the MSR, exclusive of decay. The hedge may not be effective and 

may cause volatility, or losses, in our mortgage servicing income. 

During 2012, our mortgage production income benefited from high levels of refinancing activity and historically high gain 

on sale margins for our mortgage loans. In contrast, during the second half of 2013, increased interest rates caused mortgage 

applications and refinancing activity to decline substantially, and this adversely affected mortgage production income. Our 

mortgage production income likely will continue to be depressed as long as gain on sale margins remain narrow and until 

refinance and purchase activity improves.
We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We generally do not hedge 

all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated
 models and constant monitoring. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may 

not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. 

There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate 

risk. For additional information, see Note 16, ﬁDerivative Financial Instruments,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

in this Form 10-K.18Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets 

and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity.

Market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity
 prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. Interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and MVE 

to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the structure of the balance sheet, 
which includes all loans. Variable rate loans, prior to any hedging related actions, are approximately 56% of total loans and 

approximately 43% of total loans after giving consideration to hedging related actions. We are also exposed to market risk in 

our trading instruments, AFS investment portfolio, MSRs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits carried 

at fair value. ALCO meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor 

and limit exposure to market risk. The policies established by ALCO are reviewed and approved by our Board.

Given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive t
o market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact of the general economy, 

changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the followi
ng ways:
Ł The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways;

Ł The value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments or the value of equity investments that we 
hold could decline;Ł The value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or

Ł To the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such 
funds or the ability to raise such funds.Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on 

our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income is a function of both our net interest 

margin-the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources 

of funding-and the amount of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets 

we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. 

Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in 
interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilit
ies tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. When intere
st rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract
 until the asset yield catches up.
The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form 

of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted above, if current economic conditions persist, we may continue
 to see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our yield. In addition, we may invest in lower yielding 

investment securities for a variety of reasons.
Changes in the slope of the ﬁyield curve,ﬂ or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce 

our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. 

Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our net 

interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. The interest we 

earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope
 of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. This could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. We discuss 

these topics in greater detail under the caption ﬁEnterprise Risk Managementﬂ in the MD&A in this Form 10-K.

During the third quarter of 2013, the Federal Reserve reaffirmed that a highly accommodative monetary policy will remain 

in effect for a considerable time after its asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. Accordingly, 

the Federal Reserve conveyed that it anticipates maintaining key interest rates at exceptionally low levels, at least as long a
s the unemployment rate remains above 6.5% and its long-term inflation goals are not met. A persistent low interest rate 

environment likely will adversely affect the interest income we earn on loans and investments.

We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumpti
ons about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that 

interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives.
We may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net 

interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than 

what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, 

we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance 
19our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take 

such actions. For additional information, see the ﬁEnterprise Risk Managementﬂ section in the MD&A in this Form 10-K.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our MSRs and mortgages held for sale, reducing our earnings.

We have a sizable portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan-collect principal, interest and escrow 

amounts-for a fee. We record MSRs when we keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated 

or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We initially measure all and carry all 

our residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing
 income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usuall
y more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, 

the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs and any related hedges, and 

any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.
We measure at fair value prime mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market 

prices exist. We also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizatio
ns. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests may be adversely 

affected by changes in interest rates. For example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages 

held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. We may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with
 derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for 

sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments.
For additional information, see ﬁEnterprise Risk Management-Other Market Riskﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policiesﬂ in the 

MD&A, and Note 9, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.

The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on 

our earnings.

The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds
 for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. 

They can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Federal Reserve 

policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could
 adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which in turn result in 

volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and 

difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to pre
dict.Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding.

Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative 

investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits 

in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs.
Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income.

Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers 

can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the lo
ss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits.
We have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks.

We are a diversified financial services company. This diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainti
es. Other businesses include investment banking, securities underwriting and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered 

through our subsidiaries. Securities underwriting, loan syndications and securities market making entail significant market, 

operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations.20Hurricanes and other disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost of doing 

business.
Large scale natural or man-made disasters may significantly affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral
 and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The nature and level of disasters cannot be predicted 

and may be exacerbated by global climate change. The ultimate impact of a disaster on future financial results is difficult to 

predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which 

damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by 

the disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure morator
iums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other clients.
Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.

As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. The reputati
on of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting 
the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. Negative public opinion regarding us could result from our 

actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold 

by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from 

actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion 

can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and 

regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other 

businesses. Negative public opinion could also affect our credit ratings, which are important to accessing unsecured wholesale 

borrowings. Significant changes in these ratings could change the cost and availability of these sources of funding.
We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.

Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet 

connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third 

parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clien
ts and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely 

affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that
 party. Further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulation
s. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequ
ate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrup
t the operations or increase the costs of doing business.
A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and 

other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or 

misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.

We depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. As 

client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational 

systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. 

Our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or 

become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control.
 For example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural 

disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale politica
l or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans
 and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to 

our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients.
Information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part becau
se of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial 

transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other ext
ernal parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information 

in our computer systems and networks. Our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on 

our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to 

access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet PCs, personal computers, and other mobile 

devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our 

technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security 

breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our client
s' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business oper
ations.21For example, during 2013,
 our main online banking website, as well as those of several other prominent financial institutions, 
was subject to a
 limited number of distributed denial of service attacks. The attacks
 against us, which were also generally 
publicized in the media, did not result in any financial loss, fraud or breach of client data or service disruptions of any mat
eriality.
Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financ
ial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational
 and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.
Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, 

there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains 

heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in 

the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies 

and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients when and how they want to be served, our expanded 

geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic 

environment. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and 

practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access 

remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify 

or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities.
Additionally, the FRB, the CFPB, and other regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their 

performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or 

operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or 

devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties 
or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of 

which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness 

of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterpart
y, or 
other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions 

with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and 

hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financia
l services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and
 could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the eve
nt of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot
 be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. T
here is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.

In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on informati
on furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We 

also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, 

with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.
Competition in the financial services industry is intense and could result in losing business or margin declines.

We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial 

services industry resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative, regulatory and technological changes, and from 

continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from 

numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously
 limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same 

regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost 

structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any 

type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant 

banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment 

in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory 

constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price 

products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our 

profitability.
22Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and 

services.
Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing
 pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from 

fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial 

capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be 

successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those 

new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services 

on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect o
ur profitability.

We might not pay dividends on our common stock.

Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available
 for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do 

so.
Further, in February 2009, the Federal Reserve required bank holding companies to substantially reduce or eliminate dividends. 

Since that time, the Federal Reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered 

prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse 

conditions. As a result, we expect that any substantial increase in our dividend will require the approval of the Federal Reser
ve. Refer to the discussion under the caption "We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet 

these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected," above.

Additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP will 

increase to the extent that we pay dividends prior to December 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was 

the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the CPP. Specifically, the exercise price and the number of 

shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a
 formula contained in the warrant agreements.
Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends.

We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Bank. We receive substantially all of our reve
nue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common 

stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends 

that our Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets up
on a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Limitations on our a
bility to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay 

dividends on common stock. Additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us 

while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders.
Disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity.

In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital
 resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management 

needs of our clients. Other sources of contingent funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements,
 FHLB capacity, and borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the 

capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the 

capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and
, in turn, our liquidity.

Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.

Our issuer ratings are rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. There were no changes to our primary credit ratings
 during 2013. On October 8, 2013, Fitch affirmed our senior long- and short-term credit ratings and revised its outlook on our 

ratings from ﬁStableﬂ to ﬁPositive.ﬂ Our credit ratings remain on ﬁPositiveﬂ outlook with S&P and on ﬁStableﬂ outlook with 

Moody's. Future downgrades are possible, although not anticipated, given the ﬁStableﬂ or "Positive" outlook from the three 

major rating agencies.
The rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength
 as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. I
n light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance t
hat we will maintain our current ratings. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upo
n which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. Credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence
 23our funding costs. Among our various retail and wholesale funding sources, credit ratings have a more direct impact on the 

cost of wholesale funding, as our primary source of retail funding is bank deposits, most of which are insured by the FDIC. 

During the most recent financial market crisis and economic recession, our senior debt credit spread to the matched maturity 

5-year swap rate widened before we received any credit ratings downgrades in 2009 and began to tighten before we received 

our most recent credit rating downgrade in November 2010. After the loss of our A-1 short-term credit rating in April 2009 

and capital raises in May and June 2009, more recent credit rating downgrades had little or no detrimental impact to our debt 

credit spreads. We expect that a one notch downgrade would have a relatively small impact on our debt credit spreads. A one 

notch downgrade could impact our ability to maintain certain business deposits that are sensitive to credit ratings. If we were
 not able to maintain these deposits, we would have to replace this funding with wholesale or capital markets funding, which 
would be more expensive and therefore negatively impact our net interest margin and net interest income.

We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not 

be able to realize anticipated benefits.

We have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to successfully identify
 suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired 

businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve 

levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise 

perform as expected.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and 

products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. We may not 

properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired 

company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financia
l condition, and results of operations.
Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. 

In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, 

the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital le
vels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs 

of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectivenes
s of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what
 terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we might be required to sell portions 

of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a 

proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the 

time and expenses invested in pursuing it.
Additionally, our regulatory burden increases as our size increases. We become subject to enhanced capital and liquidity 

requirements once our assets exceed $250 billion, and our regulators likely would expect us to begin voluntarily complying 

with those requirements as we approach that size. 
We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results.

From time to time we are subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. These claims and legal actions, 

including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. During 

the recent credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. The outcome 

of these cases is uncertain.
We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be 

reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the 

actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate 

resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our 

results of operations and financial condition.
Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause 

significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantia
l uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional informati
on, see Note 19, ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.24We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent 

or unintentional violations.

We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can 

be no assurance that these will be effective. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory 

violations. We may suffer other negative consequences resulting from findings of noncompliance with laws and regulations, 

including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the GSEs 

and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations.

For example, on October 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle with the HUD and the U.S. DOJ 

to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from FHA-insured mortgage loans originated by STM from January 

1, 2006 through March 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices
 as part of the National Mortgage Servicing Settlement. Pursuant to the combined agreements in principle, we have committed 

to provide $500 million of consumer relief, to make a $468 million cash payment, and to implement certain mortgage servicing 

standards. See additional discussion of this in our earlier risk factor, "We face risks related to recent mortgage settlements.
"Further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though 

the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures 

designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the OFAC that prohibit financial institutio
ns from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationa
ls of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are 

in place to prevent the violations.
Additionally, in the past year, federal regulators have begun pursuing financial institutions with emerging theories of recover
y under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA). Courts may uphold significant 

additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or 

other counterparties for actual losses.
We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective 

replacements, operations may suffer.

The success of our business has been, and the continuing success will be, dependent to a large degree on the continued services
 of executive officers, especially our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William H. Rogers, Jr., and other key personnel 

who have extensive experience in the industry. We generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive 

officers or other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transit
ion to new personnel, the business could be adversely impacted.
We may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase 

as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability 

to implement our business strategies.

Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant 

competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute the business strategy and provide high quality 

service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee
 compensation or benefits increase substantially. Further, in June 2010, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulator
s jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the 

safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. This regulation significantly 

restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation.
Our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. 

They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.

Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations
. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and 

financial results. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjectiv
e and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts 

would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to make 

certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserve
s related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates unde
rlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.
Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, securities AFS, certain loans, MSRs, structured
 notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to 

prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based 
25on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment. Some of these 

and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, be
ing based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans
 and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such 

valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings.
Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to 

ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate
 value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, 

or recognizing or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensur
e these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and 

procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of 

the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not 

be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. See ﬁCritical Accounting Policiesﬂ in t
he MD&A and Note 1, ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.

Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial 

results and condition.

From time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 

of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such 

as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or 

positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in 

current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financi
al results and condition. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us 

restating prior period financial statements.
Our stock price can be volatile.

Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including:Ł variations in our quarterly results;

Ł changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry;

Ł governmental and regulatory legislation or actions;

Ł issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future;

Ł changes in dividends;

Ł the addition or departure of key personnel;

Ł cyclical fluctuations;

Ł changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common 
stock;Ł announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and

Ł activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity.
General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist 

attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could caus
e our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. For the above and other reasons, the market price of our securitie
s may not accurately reflect the value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our
 securities when making an investment decision.
Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.

Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed 

by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and 

recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. We believe 

that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, 

can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned 

judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be 

circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of 

the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may 

occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and the 

restatement of previously filed financial statements.26Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks.

We maintain at fair value a securities AFS portfolio and trading assets and liabilities and derivatives, which include various 

types of instruments and maturities. Additionally, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, MSRs and 

other financial instruments at fair value. The changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are rec
ognized in earnings. The financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, 

market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. We manage the 

market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader ALM strategies. Changes in 

the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of 

operations. We may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future.

Our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks.

We generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, and equity markets. Unrealized
 gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with our trading 

portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic 

factors. Our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, 

volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally,
 accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of 

such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary.

We may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates or our subsidiaries.

We engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. While we have no obligatio
n, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances these transactions may involve providing some form 

of financial support to these entities. Any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. Depending
 on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us 

to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results.
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.
Item 2. PROPERTIES

Our principal executive offices are located in SunTrust Plaza, Atlanta, Georgia. The 60-story office building is majority-owned
 by SunTrust Banks, Inc. At December 31, 2013, the Bank operated 1,497 full-service banking offices, of which 590 were 

owned and the remainder were leased. The full-service banking offices are located primarily in Florida, Georgia, Maryland, 

North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. See Note 8, ﬁPremises and Equipment,ﬂ 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further discussion of our properties.
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

For information regarding the Company's legal matters, see Note 19, ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

in this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.27PART II
Item 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS,
AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESThe principal market in which the common stock of the Company is traded is the NYSE. See Item 6 and Table 33 in the 

MD&A for information on the high and the low sales prices of SunTrust common stock on the NYSE, which is incorporated 

herein by reference. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we paid a quarterly dividend on common stock of $0.05 per 

common share for the first quarter and $0.10 per common share for each of the second, third, and fourth quarters, compared 
to a quarterly dividend on common stock of $0.05 per common share during 2012. Our common stock was held of record by 

27,916 holders at December 31, 2013. See "Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds" below for information 

on share repurchase activity, announced programs, and the remaining buy back authority under the announced programs, 

which is incorporated herein by reference.
Please also refer to Item 1, ﬁBusinessŠGovernment Supervision and Regulation,ﬂ for a discussion of legal restrictions which 

affect our ability to pay dividends; Item 1A, ﬁRisk Factors,ﬂ for a discussion of some risks related to our dividend, and Item 

7, ﬁMD&AŠCapital Resources,ﬂ for a discussion of the dividends paid during the year and factors that may affect the future 

level of dividends.
The information under the caption ﬁEquity Compensation Plansﬂ in our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC 

is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.
Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total shareholder return on our 

common stock against the cumulative total return of the S&P Composite-500 Stock Index and the S&P Commercial Bank 

Industry Index for the five years commencing December 31, 2008 and ending December 31, 2013. The foregoing analysis 

assumes an initial $100 investment in our stock and each index and the reinvestment of all dividends during the periods 

presented.Cumulative Total Return for the Years Ended December 31  20082009201020112012
2013SunTrust Banks, Inc.100.0069.43100.7861.2197.94
127.76S&P 500100.00125.92144.21147.12169.23
219.83S&P Commercial Bank Index100.0092.86110.8799.28122.02
162.5928Unregistered Sales Of Equity Securities And Use Of Proceeds

SunTrust did not repurchase any shares of Series A Preferred Stock Depositary Shares, Series B Preferred Stock, Series E 

Preferred Stock Depositary Shares, or warrants to purchase common stock during the year ended December 31, 2013, and 

there was no unused Board authority to repurchase any shares of Series A Preferred Stock Depositary Shares, Series B Preferred 

Stock, or the Series E Preferred Stock Depositary Shares.
At December 31, 2013, the Company had authority from its Board to repurchase all of the 13.9 million outstanding stock 

purchase warrants. However, any such repurchase would be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve through the 

capital planning and stress testing process, and the Company did not request approval to repurchase any warrants.
On September 12, 2006, SunTrust issued and registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, 20 million Depositary 

Shares, each representing a 1/4,000th interest in a share of Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A. In 2011, the Series A Preferr
ed Stock became redeemable at the Company™s option at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, plus any declared and 

unpaid dividends.
On March 30, 2011, the Company repurchased $3.5 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock-Series C, and $1.4 

billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock-Series D, that was issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP. Warrants to 

purchase common stock issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the issuance of Series C and D preferred stock remained 

outstanding. The Board authorized the Company to repurchase all of the remaining outstanding warrants to purchase our 

common stock that were issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with its investment in SunTrust Banks, Inc. under the CPP. 

On September 28, 2011, the Company purchased and retired 4 million warrants to purchase SunTrust common stock in 

connection with the U.S. Treasury's resale, via a public secondary offering of the warrants that the Treasury held. At December
 31, 2013, 13.9 million warrants remained outstanding.
On December 15, 2011, SunTrust issued 1,025 shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock-Series B, no par value and $100,000 

liquidation preference per share (the "Series B Preferred Stock") to SunTrust Preferred Capital I. The Series B Preferred Stock
 by its terms is redeemable by the Company at $100,000 per share plus any declared and unpaid dividends.
 
On December 13, 2012, SunTrust issued depositary shares representing ownership interest in 4,500 shares of Perpetual 

Preferred Stock-Series E, no par value and $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the "Series E Preferred Stock"). The 

Series E Preferred Stock by its terms is redeemable by the Company at $100,000 per share plus any declared and unpaid 

dividends. 
      29Share repurchases during the year ended December 31, 2013:Common Stock 1Total number of
  shares purchased 2Average pricepaid per shareNumber ofshares purchasedas part ofpubliclyannounced plansor programsApproximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs ($ in millions)April 1 - 301,072,400$29.031,072,400$169

May 1 - 31591,53231.89591,532150

June 1 - 30ŠŠŠ150

Total during second quarter of 20131,663,932$30.051,663,932$150

July 1 - 311,429,527$34.981,429,527$100

August 1 - 31ŠŠŠ100

September 1 - 30ŠŠŠ100

Total during third quarter of 20131,429,527$34.981,429,527$100

October 1 - 311,463,185$34.171,463,185$50

November 1 - 30ŠŠŠ50

December 1-31ŠŠŠ50

Total during fourth quarter of 20131,463,185$34.171,463,185$50

Total during 20134,556,644$32.924,556,644$50
1 On March 14, 2013, the Company announced that its Board had authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million shares of the Compa
ny's common stock. This authorization expires December 31, 2016. However, any share repurchase is subject to the approval of the Company's primary
 banking regulator as 
part of the annual capital planning and stress testing process and, therefore, this authority effectively expires on March 31, 
2014. During 2013, the Company repurchased approximately $150 million of its common stock at market value as part of this publicly announced plan. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, the Company repurchased an additional $50 million of its common stock in early 2014 as part of the repurchases authorized relat
ed to the 2013 capital plan.
2 Includes shares repurchased pursuant to SunTrust's employee stock option plans, pursuant to which participants may pay the exer
cise price upon exercise of SunTrust stock options by surrendering shares of SunTrust common stock which the participant already owns. SunTrust consider
s shares so surrendered 
by participants in SunTrust's employee stock option plans to be repurchased pursuant to the authority and terms of the applicab
le stock option plan rather than pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. No shares of SunTrust common stock were surrendered by participa
nts in SunTrust's 
employee stock option plans in 2013. 30Item 6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions, except per share data)20132012201120102009
Summary of Operations:Interest income$5,388$5,867$6,181$6,343$6,710
Interest expense5357651,1161,4892,244
Net interest income4,8535,1025,0654,8544,466
Provision for credit losses5531,3951,5132,6514,064
Net interest income after provision for credit losses4,3003,7073,5522,203402
Noninterest income3,2145,3733,4213,7293,710
Noninterest expense5,8806,3236,2345,9116,562
Income/(loss) before provision for income taxes1,6342,75773921(2,450)
Provision/(benefit) for income taxes27377379(185)(898)
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest1726131712
Net income/(loss)$1,344$1,958$647$189($1,564)
Net income/(loss) available to common shareholders$1,297$1,931$495($87)($1,733)
Net income/(loss) available to common shareholders, 
excluding Form 8-K items 1$1,476$1,178$495($87)($1,733)
Net interest income - FTE 1$4,980$5,225$5,179$4,970$4,589
Total revenue - FTE 
18,19410,5988,6008,6998,299
Total revenue - FTE, excluding net securities gains
 18,1928,6248,4838,5088,201
Total revenue - FTE, excluding Form 8-K items 
18,25711,9018,6008,6998,299
Net income/(loss) per average common share:Diluted 22.413.590.94(0.18)(3.98)
Diluted excluding goodwill/intangible impairment charges, 

other than MSRs 1,22.413.600.94(0.18)(2.34)
Diluted excluding effect of accelerated accretion associated 

with the repurchase of preferred stock issued to the U.S. 
Treasury 
1,22.413.591.08(0.18)(3.98)
Diluted, excluding the effect of Form 8-K items
 1,22.742.190.94(0.18)(3.98)
Basic2.433.620.94(0.18)(3.98)
Dividends paid per average common share0.350.200.120.040.22
Book value per common share38.6137.5936.8636.3435.29
Tangible book value per common share 
127.0125.9825.1823.7622.59
Market capitalization19,73415,2799,50414,76810,128
Market price:High36.9930.7933.1431.9230.18
Low26.9318.0715.7920.166.00
Close36.8128.3517.7029.5120.29
Selected Average BalancesTotal assets$172,497$176,134$172,440$172,375$175,442
Earning assets153,728153,479147,802147,187150,908
Loans122,657122,893116,308113,925121,041
Consumer and commercial deposits127,076126,249122,672117,129113,164
Brokered time and foreign deposits2,0652,2552,3862,9166,082
Intangible assets including MSRs7,5357,3227,7807,8377,882
MSRs1,1218871,3311,317533
Preferred Stock7252901,3284,9295,067
Total shareholders™ equity21,16720,49520,69622,83422,286
Average common shares - diluted (thousands)539,093538,061527,618498,744437,486
Average common shares - basic (thousands)534,283534,149523,995495,361435,328
At December 31Total assets$175,335$173,442$176,859$172,874$174,165
Earning assets156,978151,223154,696148,473147,896
Loans127,877121,470122,495115,975113,675
31ALLL2,0442,1742,4572,9743,120
Consumer and commercial deposits127,735130,180125,611120,025116,303
Brokered time and foreign deposits2,0242,1362,3113,0195,560
Long-term debt10,7009,35710,90813,64817,490
Total shareholders™ equity21,42220,98520,06623,13022,531
Financial RatiosROA0.78%1.11%0.38%0.11%(0.89)%
ROE6.349.562.56(0.49)(10.07)
ROTCE19.2514.023.83(0.76)(17.56)
Net interest margin - FTE3.243.403.503.383.04
Efficiency ratio71.7559.6772.4967.9479.07
Tangible efficiency ratio 
171.4859.2471.9967.3669.35
Tangible efficiency ratio, excluding Form 8-K items 
165.8667.3471.9967.3669.35
Total average shareholders™ equity to total average assets12.2711.6412.0013.2512.70
Tangible equity to tangible assets 
19.008.828.1010.129.66
Effective tax rate/(benefit)16.8928.2910.84NM
3(36.50)Allowance to year-end total loans1.601.802.012.582.76
Total NPAs to total loans plus OREO, other repossessed assets,
and nonperforming LHFS0.911.522.764.085.33
Common dividend payout ratio 414.55.612.9N/AN/A
Capital adequacy at period endTier 1 common equity9.82%10.04%9.22%8.08%7.67%
Tier 1 capital10.8111.1310.9013.6712.96
Total capital12.8113.4813.6716.5416.43
Tier 1 leverage9.588.918.7510.9410.90
    1 See Non-GAAP reconcilements in Table 36 of the MD&A.
2 For EPS calculation purposes, the impact of dilutive securities are excluded from the diluted share count during periods in wh
ich we recognize a net loss available 
to common shareholders because the impact would be antidilutive. 3 The calculated effective tax rate was not meaningful.
4 The common dividend payout ratio is not applicable in a period of net loss.     32Item 7.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONSImportant Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements. Statements regarding: (1) efficiency goals; (2) future improvements to asset 

quality and the contribution of such improvement to net income;  (3) future levels of net interest margin, net interest income,
 mortgage production related income, other real estate expense, gains on sale of other real estate, cyclical costs (including op
erating losses, other real estate expense, and credit and collection services), , NPLs, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, RWA
s and CET 1, and the liability for UTBs;  (4) the expected contributions of purchase activity and refinance activity to mortgage prod
uction related income; (5) future rate of branch reductions, (6) future impacts to Tier 1, Tier 2 and Total Capital as a result of reg
ulatory impacts to the capital treatment of certain of our trust preferred securities; (7) our expectation that we will realize DTA™s; 
(8) future core expenses in Mortgage Banking, and (9) expected returns on pension plan assets, are forward looking statements. Also, any 

statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement. These statements often include the
 words 
ﬁbelieves,ﬂ ﬁexpects,ﬂ ﬁanticipates,ﬂ ﬁestimates,ﬂ ﬁintends,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁtargets,ﬂ ﬁinitiatives,ﬂ ﬁpotentially,ﬂ ﬁprobably,ﬂ ﬁpr
ojects,ﬂ ﬁoutlookﬂ or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁwould,ﬂ and ﬁcould"; such statem
ents are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of management and on information currently available to management. Such 

statements speak as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update the statements made herein or to update 

the reasons why actual results could differ from those contained in such statements in light of new information or future event
s.Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Investors are cautioned against placing undue re
liance on such statements. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that c
ould cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in Part I, "
Item 1A. Risk Factors" in this report and include risks discussed in this MD&A and in other periodic reports that we file with the SEC. 
Additional factors include:  as one of the largest lenders in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S. and a provider of financial p
roducts and services to consumers and businesses across the U.S., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially 

affected by general economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and home prices in the U.S., and a deterioration of 

economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financ
ial results and condition; legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or regulatio
n, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise 

adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position; we are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelin
es and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected; loss of customer deposits and ma
rket illiquidity could increase our funding costs; we rely on the mortgage secondary market and GSEs for some of our liquidity; our 

framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us; we are subject to credit risk; our ALLL ma
y not be adequate to cover our eventual losses; we may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loan
s are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral; we will realize futu
re losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of NPAs are less than the carrying value of such assets; a downgrade in the 
U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institut
ions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict; wea
kness in the real estate market, including the secondary residential mortgage loan markets, has adversely affected us and may continu
e to adversely affect us; we are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages, and may be required to re
purchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud,
 or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condit
ion; we face certain risks as a servicer of loans, and may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase
 a 
mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctio
ns if 
we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions; fina
ncial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may adversely affect our servicing and investment portfolios; w
e are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process; we face risks related to recent mortgage settlements; we may
 continue to suffer increased losses in our loan portfolio despite enhancement of our underwriting policies and practices; our 

mortgage production and servicing revenue can be volatile; changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely 

affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity; ch
anges in interest rates could also reduce the value of our MSRs and mortgages held for sale, reducing our earnings; the fiscal and mo
netary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings; clients could pursue 

alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding; consumers may decide not to use b
anks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income; we have businesses other than banking which subject us
 to a variety of risks; hurricanes and other disasters may adversely affect loan portfolios and operations and increase the cost
 of 
doing business; negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues; we rely on 

other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure; a failure in or breach of our operational or security
 33systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber atta
cks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputat
ion, increase our costs and cause losses; the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us; we depend on the 

accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties; competition in the financial services industry is in
tense and could result in losing business or margin declines; maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and
 regulatory approval of new products and services; we might not pay dividends on our common stock; our ability to receive divide
nds from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends; disruptions in our ability to access global capi
tal markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity; any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of
 our funding from the capital markets; we have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and f
rom which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits; we are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to thi
s litigation may adversely affect our results; we may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory viol
ations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations; we depend on the expertise of key personnel, and if these individuals le
ave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer; we may not be able to hire or retain additional qu
alified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and redu
ce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies; our accounting policies and processes 
are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and require management to make estimates about mat
ters that are uncertain; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our fin
ancial results and condition; our stock price can be volatile; our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud; our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks; our revenues derived from 
our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks; and we may enter into transactions with off-balance sh
eet affiliates or our subsidiaries.

INTRODUCTION
We are a leading provider of financial services, particularly in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic U.S., and our headquarters i
s located in Atlanta, Georgia. Our principal banking subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, offers a full line of financial services for cons
umers and businesses both through its branches located primarily in Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, 

Tennessee, Virginia, and the District of Columbia, and through other national delivery channels. In certain businesses, we also
 operate in select markets nationally. Within our geographic footprint, we operate three business segments: Consumer Banking and
 Private Wealth Management, Wholesale Banking, and Mortgage Banking, with the remainder in Corporate Other. See Note 20, 

"Business Segment Reporting," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a description of our business 

segments. In addition to deposit, credit, mortgage banking, and trust and investment services offered by the Bank, our other 

subsidiaries provide asset management, securities brokerage, and capital market services.
This MD&A is intended to assist readers in their analysis of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and supplementa
l financial information. It should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes in Item 8 of this 

Form 10-K. When we refer to ﬁSunTrust,ﬂ ﬁthe Company,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁour,ﬂ and ﬁusﬂ in this narrative, we mean SunTrust Banks, Inc. 

and subsidiaries (consolidated). In the MD&A, net interest income, net interest margin, total revenue, and efficiency ratios ar
e presented on an FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of net interest income from certain loans and inves
tments. We believe this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net 

interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. Additionally, we present certain non-U.S. GAAP metrics to assist 

investors in understanding management™s view of particular financial measures, as well as to align presentation of these financ
ial measures with peers in the industry who may also provide a similar presentation. Reconcilements for all non-U.S. GAAP measures 

are provided in Tables 36 and 37.
34EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Economic and regulatory
The economic landscape in 2013 reflected gradual improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions, increased 

consumer confidence and household spending, and further strengthening of many housing markets in which we operate. As the 

overall economy improved, increases in mortgage interest rates during the year resulted in a decline in mortgage refinance acti
vity from the strong levels in 2012. Despite the increase in mortgage interest rates, consumer borrowing costs remained at relativel
y low levels which continued to be a catalyst to increased consumer spending. Consumer spending increased compared to 2012 and 

during 2013 reached levels last seen prior to the recession, before declining at December 31, 2013, to a level moderately below
 the prior year end. The unemployment rate dropped to below 7% at December 31, 2013, compared to the rate at December 31, 

2012, which was slightly below 8%. The  drop in unemployment and improvement in economic conditions during 2013 aided the 

changes in U.S. monetary policy announced at the end of 2013, as discussed further below. The housing market continued to 

strengthen in 2013, as demonstrated by continued price increases, favorable shifts in supply and demand, and some encouraging 
signs from certain homebuilding activities. However, the rise in mortgage interest rates that began in the second quarter of 20
13 applied pressure on the housing recovery and significantly impacted refinancing activity.   

During 2013, the Federal Reserve maintained a highly accommodative monetary policy and indicated that this policy would remain 

in effect for a considerable time after its asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. Accordingly, the
 Federal Reserve maintained key interest rates at exceptionally low levels during 2013, and indicated that they would likely rem
ain at these levels well past the time that the unemployment rate drops below 6.5%, especially if its long-term inflation goals are
 not 
met. As a result of executing its monetary policy, the Federal Reserve continued to maintain large portfolios of U.S. Treasury 
notes and bonds and agency MBS and continued adding Treasuries and agency MBS to its portfolio during 2013. However, during 2013, 

driven in large part by the financial markets' expectations regarding future Federal Reserve monetary policy actions, certain m
arket interest rates increased and the yield curve steepened compared to December 31, 2012. During December 2013, the Federal Reserve
 indicated that it would begin to modestly reduce its pace of Treasury and agency MBS purchases in January 2014 in light of 

cumulative progress in unemployment and labor market conditions. The Federal Reserve indicated further that a reduction of its 

asset purchases was likely with continued improving economic indicators, but that its asset purchases are not on a preset cours
e and the decision to moderate purchases further will be based on close monitoring of economic and financial developments over 

the coming months and how these developments support any continued improvement in labor market conditions and inflation 

objectives. Despite the currently planned moderation in asset purchases, the Federal Reserve indicated that, in its view, the s
izable and still increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, suppor
t mortgage markets, and allow more accommodative financial conditions. The Federal Reserve outlook includes economic growth 

that will strengthen from current levels with appropriate policy accommodation, a gradual decline in unemployment, and the 

expectation of gradually increasing longer-term inflation. See additional discussion regarding the increase in interest rates i
n the "Net Interest Income/Margin" and "Noninterest Income" sections of this MD&A.  

Capital
During 2013, we announced capital plans in conjunction with the 2013 CCAR submission and completion of the Federal Reserve's 

review of our capital plan. Accordingly, during 2013 we repurchased $150 million of our common stock, and we subsequently 

repurchased an additional $50 million of our common stock in early 2014. Additionally, we increased our quarterly common stock 

dividend by $0.05 per common share effective in the second quarter of 2013, which resulted in dividends for 2013 of $0.35 per 

common share, an increase from $0.20 per common share in 2012. We have submitted our 2014 capital plan in conjunction with 

the 2014 CCAR submission, and upon completion of the Federal Reserve's review of the capital plan, we will announce any future 

capital actions.
At December 31, 2013 our capital ratios were well above the requirements to be considered ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ according to curre
nt and expected future regulatory standards, as earnings during 2013 drove a $1.1 billion increase in our Tier 1 common equity. Ou
r Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.82% at December 31, 2013, compared to 10.04% at December 31, 2012. The decline in the ratio 

compared to the prior year was primarily due to an increase in RWA as a result of loan growth and an increase in unused lending
 commitments. Our Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 10.81% and 12.81%, respectively, at December 31, 2013 compared 

to 11.13% and 13.48%, respectively, at December 31, 2012, which also declined moderately from the prior year primarily due to 

the same reasons as the decline in the Tier 1 common equity ratio. See additional discussion of our capital and liquidity posit
ion in the ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ and ﬁLiquidity Risk Managementﬂ sections of this MD&A.
The Federal Reserve published final rules on October 11, 2013 related to capital adequacy requirements to implement the BCBS's 

Basel III framework for financial institutions in the U.S. The final rules become effective for us on January 1, 2015, and, bas
ed on our current analysis of the rules, we believe that our RWA will increase slightly primarily due to increased risk-weightings
 for 
MSRs and certain on and off-balance sheet exposures, resulting in a small decline in our capital ratios. Based on our current a
nd ongoing analysis of the recently published rules, we estimate our current Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio, on a fully phas
ed-35in basis, will be approximately 9.6%, which would be in compliance with the capital requirements. See the "Reconcilement of 

Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual" section in this MD&A for a reconciliation of the current Basel I ratio to the estimated Basel 

III ratio. See additional discussion of Basel III in the "Capital Resources" section of this MD&A.
Financial performance
Net income available to common shareholders during 2013 was $1.3 billion, or $2.41 per average diluted common share, compared 

to $1.9 billion, or $3.59 per average diluted common share, in 2012, and $495 million, or $0.94 per average diluted common shar
e, in 2011. Net income in 2013 included a $179 million negative impact, or $0.33 per average diluted common share, of items relate
d primarily to the recognition of certain legacy mortgage-related and other matters and the completion of a taxable reorganizatio
n of certain subsidiaries. In comparison, during 2012 our net income included $753 million of additional income, or $1.40 per ave
rage diluted common share, driven by the early termination of agreements regarding the shares previously owned in Coke resulting in 

the sale and charitable contribution of those shares, net of certain expenses related to strategic actions taken during 2012 to
 strengthen our balance sheet. A summary of the significant items impacting each year is as follows:
Table 1Year Ended December 31($ in millions, except per share amounts)201320122011
Net income available to common shareholders$1,297$1,931$495
Significant items impacting the year:Operating losses related to recognition of certain mortgage-related legal matters323ŠŠMortgage repurchase provision related to repurchase settlements63ŠŠProvision for unrecoverable servicing advances96ŠŠSecurities gains related to sale of Coke stockŠ(1,938)Š
Mortgage repurchase provisionŠ371Š
Charitable expense related to the Coke stock contributionŠ38Š
Provision for credit losses related to NPL salesŠ172Š
Losses on sale of guaranteed loansŠ92Š
Valuation losses related to planned sale of Affordable Housing investmentsŠ96Š
Tax (benefit)/expense related to above items(190)416Š
Net tax benefit related to subsidiary reorganization and other(113)ŠŠNet income available to common shareholders, excluding significant items impacting
the year$1,476$1,178$495
Net income per average common share, diluted$2.41$3.59$0.94
Net income per average common share, diluted, excluding significant items impacting
the year$2.74$2.19$0.94
The 2013 items noted above primarily related to the recognition of certain legacy mortgage-related and other matters and also 

included the impact of the completion of a taxable reorganization of certain subsidiaries along with other less significant tax
 matters. Addressing these matters improves our overall risk profile. Further details about these strategic actions can be found
 in 
our Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC on October 10, 2013. The 2012 items noted above related to strategic actions taken 

during 2012 to improve our risk profile and strengthen our capital and balance sheet. Further details about these strategic act
ions can be found in our 2012 Form 10-K and in our Form 8-K that was filed with the SEC on September 6, 2012. When excluding 

these items, our net income and diluted earnings per common share increased 25% during 2013 compared to 2012, primarily as a 

result of the continued improvement in credit quality that led to lower provision for credit losses and lower noninterest expen
se. Our net income and diluted earnings per common share increased over 100% during 2012 compared to 2011 when excluding the 

Form 8-K items. The increase was primarily driven by improved mortgage-related income, lower provision for credit losses, and 

less preferred dividends and accelerated accretion related to the U.S. government's TARP investment, which was repaid in 2011. 

See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," for a reconciliation of net income available to common 

shareholders and net income per average common share, diluted, excluding the Form 8-K items.
Our provision for credit losses declined 60% during 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was as a result of continued credit 

quality improvement and the 2012 impacts related to Chapter 7 bankruptcy loan reclassifications to nonperforming and a junior 

lien policy change related to nonaccrual status and timing of charge-off recognition. Noninterest expense decreased 7% in 2013;
 however, when excluding the Form 8-K items, decreased 12% compared to 2012 as a result of our ongoing efficiency improvement 

efforts as well as the abatement of cyclically high credit-related costs. Partially offsetting the improvement in provision for
 credit 
36losses and noninterest expenses was a decrease in total revenue in 2013 compared to 2012, driven by declines in both net intere
st income and noninterest income. Net interest income decreased 5% during 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to the continued 

low interest rate environment. Noninterest income decreased 40% during 2013 compared to 2012; however, excluding the Form 

8-K items, it decreased 16% primarily due to lower mortgage-related income, partially offset by higher wealth management and 

capital markets revenue in 2013. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," for a reconciliation of 

Form 8-K items from 2013 and 2012. Our efficiency and tangible efficiency ratios during 2013 were 
71.8% and 
71.5%, respectively, compared to 
59.7% and 
59.2%, respectively, in 2012; however, both years were impacted by the Form 8-K items previously mentioned. Excluding the impact of 
Form 8-K items in 2013 and 2012, our tangible efficiency ratio was 
65.9% during 2013 and improved 148 basis points compared 
to 2012.  Excluding Form 8-K items from 2012, our tangible efficiency ratio improved 465 basis points compared to 2011.  Our 
long-term goal is to be a more efficient organization with a tangible efficiency ratio under 60%, and we expect to make further
 progress on achieving our long-term goal with a target to be under 64% by the end of 2014.

Our asset quality metrics were a key driver to improved performance during 2013, as NPLs, NPAs, and net charge-offs all decline
d to seven year lows. Total NPLs declined 37% from the December 31, 2012 level, driven by reduced inflows into nonaccrual, 

continuing resolution of problem loans, and return to accruing status of loans previously discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy th
at exhibited a period of sustained payment performance since being discharged. Declines in NPLs were experienced in all loan 

portfolios, with the largest decline coming from the residential portfolio driven by the Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans returning t
o accruing status, in addition to lower foreclosures, lower net charge-offs, and improved loan performance. OREO declined 36% 

during 2013 compared to 2012, to $170 million at December 31, 2013, which is the lowest level since 2006. The decline from 

2012 was primarily driven by decreased inflows and sales of existing properties. Our restructured loan portfolio was stable com
pared to December 31, 2012, while the mix changed. Accruing restructured loans increased 10% compared to December 31, 2012, 

primarily as a result of Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans returning to accruing status during 2013. Additionally, nonaccruing restruc
tured loans decreased 39% and were only 12% of the total restructured portfolio at December 31, 2013. The accruing restructured 

portfolio continued to exhibit strong payment performance, with 96% of the portfolio current on principal and interest payments at December 31, 2013. Early stage delinquencies, a leading indicator of asset quality, particularly for consumer loans, decline
d during 2013, both in total and when excluding government-guaranteed loan delinquencies.  
At December 31, 2013, the ALLL was 1.60% of total loans, a decline of 20 basis points compared to December 31, 2012. The 

provision for loan losses decreased 61% and net charge-offs decreased 60% during 2013 compared to 2012. The declines were 

the result of improved credit quality, as well as the incremental charge-offs and provision recorded in 2012 related to NPL sal
es, the junior lien credit policy change, and the Chapter 7 bankruptcy loan reclassification to nonaccruing. Net charge-offs to tot
al average loans was 0.55% during 2013 compared to 1.37% during 2012, a decline of 82 basis points driven by decreases in charge-

offs within each segment, including the incremental charge-offs related to NPL sales, junior lien policy change, and Chapter 7 

bankruptcy loans during 2012. Improvements in asset quality have been driven by the stronger housing market, lower residential 

delinquencies, lower loss severities, and higher prices upon disposition of foreclosed assets. In 2014, we expect further, but 

moderating, improvements in asset quality primarily driven by residential loans. However, as asset quality metrics approach mor
e normalized levels, we expect the positive impacts on net income resulting from declines in net charge-offs and the ALLL to abat
e. As we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2013, positive loan growth may offset the effects of future asset quality improvemen
ts and may result in loan loss provision growth. See additional discussion of credit and asset quality in the ﬁLoans,ﬂ ﬁAllowance 
for Credit Losses,ﬂ and ﬁNonperforming Assets,ﬂ sections of this MD&A.

Average loans were stable during 2013 compared to 2012; however, the mix of loans changed considerably with an increase in 

C&I and consumer loans, excluding student loans, while the guaranteed residential mortgage and student loan portfolio declined 

significantly, primarily as a result of sales in the latter half of 2012. Also declining significantly in 2013 compared to 2012
 was 
average NPLs, down over $1.1 billion, primarily due to our continued resolution efforts and NPL sales in 2012. While average 

loans were stable compared to 2012, an increase in loan originations in late 2013 resulted in total loans increasing 5% at 

December 31, 2013, compared to December 31, 2012. The increase was due to growth in the consumer portfolio and targeted 

growth of our C&I and CRE portfolios. We remain focused on extending credit to qualified borrowers as part of our commitment 

to provide financing and fulfilling the credit needs in the communities that we serve. To that end, during 2013, we extended 

approximately $97 billion in new loan originations, commitments, and renewals of commercial, residential, and consumer loans 

to our clients, an increase of 8% from 2012.
Average consumer and commercial deposits increased 1% during 2013 compared to 2012. The increase during 2013 was primarily 

the result of the continued increase in lower cost deposits, partially offset by a decrease in higher cost time deposits. Speci
fically, 
average lower-cost account balances increased $3.4 billion, or 3%, and was spread across all lower-cost categories, while avera
ge time deposits declined $2.6 billion, or 16%, during 2013 compared to 2012. Comparatively, at December 31, 2013, consumer and 

commercial deposits were 2% lower compared to December 31, 2012, but lower cost balances were relatively stable while higher 

cost balances drove the decline from the prior year, declining 13%. The mix shift compared to the prior year in consumer and 
37commercial deposits resulted in a 15 basis point reduction in interest-bearing deposit costs during 2013 compared to 2012. See 

additional discussions in the "Net Interest Income/Margin" and "Deposits" sections of this MD&A.

Total revenue, on an FTE basis, decreased 23% in 2013 compared to 2012, and when excluding the impact from the Form 8-K 

items, decreased 9% compared to 2012. The decrease was due to lower net interest income and mortgage-related income, partially 

offset by higher wealth management and capital markets revenue. The decrease in net interest income was due to relatively stabl
e average earning assets and a 31 basis point decline in rates earned on those assets. The decrease in mortgage-related income wa
s primarily due to a decline in production volume, the compression of gain on sale margins, and a decline in net MSR hedge 

performance, all driven by the increase in market interest rates during 2013. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP 

Measures - Annual," for a reconciliation of revenue, excluding Form 8-K items. 

Net interest income, on an FTE basis, decreased 5% during 2013 compared to 2012, due to a decrease in our commercial loan 

swap-related income and the continued low interest rate environment contributing to lower earning asset yields, partially offse
t by favorable shifts in the deposit mix, lower deposit rates, and the reduction in average long-term debt. The prior year also i
ncluded $31 million of dividends on Coke shares that we sold in 2012. Our net interest margin was 3.24% during 2013 compared to 3.40% 

during 2012. The decline in net interest margin was due to the same factors as noted in the decline in net interest income. In 
2014, we expect the net interest margin to decline compared to 2013, but at a lower rate relative to the decline we experienced this 
year. 
The driver of this decline is anticipated to be further compression in loan yields due to the continued low short-term interest rate environment. We expect improvements in net interest income in 2014, assuming that the loan growth we experienced at the end 

of 2013 continues. See additional discussion related to net interest margin in the "Net Interest Income/Margin," section of thi
s MD&A.
Noninterest income decreased 40% during 2013 compared to 2012, and decreased 16% when excluding the impact from the Form 

8-K items. The decrease was driven by a decline in mortgage-related revenue as a result of a decline in production volume, lowe
r gain on sale margins, and a decline in net MSR hedge performance, all attributable to the increase in market interest rates dur
ing 2013. Partially offsetting the decrease was higher wealth management and capital markets revenue, as well as a decline in the 

mortgage repurchase provision and mark-to-market valuation losses on our fair value debt and index-linked CDs during 2013 

compared to 2012. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," for a reconciliation of noninterest 

income, excluding Form 8-K items. 
Noninterest expense decreased 7% during 2013 compared to 2012, and decreased 12%, when excluding the impact from the Form 

8-K items, and was driven by efficiency improvements that caused a decline in most expense categories, as well as the abatement
 of cyclically high credit-related expenses and reduced legal and consulting expenses. A significant driver of the lower noninte
rest expense was a 6% decline in compensation and benefits expense due in large part to the decline in full time equivalent employee
s which resulted in a decrease in salaries and other benefits costs. A significant driver of the decline in credit-related costs 
was the 97% decrease in other real estate expense compared to 2012 due to increased gains on sales of owned properties, while operating
 expenses and loss provisioning related to owned properties decreased. Consulting and legal expenses declined due to the complet
ion of certain mortgage regulatory-related projects. Additionally, operating losses declined 35%, excluding Form 8-K items, due 

predominantly to lower mortgage and regulatory legal-related expenses. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP 

Measures - Annual," for a reconciliation of noninterest expense and related components, excluding Form 8-K items.

Business segments highlights
Net income improved 88% in Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management during 2013 compared to 2012, driven by credit 

quality and expense improvements. Reductions in the provision for credit losses and noninterest expense offset lower revenue to
 drive the substantial increase in net income. Revenue was moderately lower during 2013 compared to 2012, driven by the sale of 

$2.2 billion of government-guaranteed student loans in 2012, partially offset by an 8% increase in consumer loan production dur
ing 2013 due to solid organic loan growth and a 5% increase in wealth management-related revenues. An improvement in credit quality
 drove a 44% decrease in the provision for credit losses during 2013 compared to 2012. The improvement was predominantly 

driven by our home equity portfolio as a result of the strengthening housing market, as well as an increase in the provision in
 the 
prior year due to a change in our credit policy related to the charge-off of junior lien loans and reclassification to nonaccru
al of certain Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans. The 9% reduction in noninterest expenses during 2013 was primarily driven by changes to 

our branch staffing model and retail branch network due to clients increasingly utilizing self-service channels. Our retail bra
nch network decreased 7% in 2013 from December 31, 2012, due to our efforts to better align our branch network and staffing levels 

in response to evolving client preferences. We expect further declines in our branch network in 2014; however, the overall rate
 of 
decline will be slower when compared to 2013. The decrease in expenses drove the 458 and 362 basis point improvements in 2013 

in our efficiency and tangible efficiency ratios, respectively, compared to 2012.  

 38Wholesale Banking reported a 29% increase in net income in 2013 compared to 2012, which was led by decreases in the provision 

for credit losses and noninterest expense. Total revenue was lower in 2013 due to lower trading income and leasing asset impair
ments, but was partially offset by record investment banking income and a 4% increase in net interest income driven by average loan 

growth of 7%. Loan growth was driven by not-for-profit and government lending, core commercial real estate, and our large 

corporate lending areas, most notably asset securitization, asset-based lending, and our energy and healthcare industry lending
. Further credit quality improvement in our CRE portfolio in 2013 and the elevated provision in 2012 due to the charge-offs relat
ed to the nonperforming CRE loans sales drove a 70% decrease in the provision for credit losses compared to 2012. Additionally, 

noninterest expenses decreased 10% compared to 2012, driven by declines in other real estate and credit related expenses. The 

decline in noninterest expense drove further improvements in both the efficiency and tangible efficiency ratios during 2013, wh
ich remained below 55%. 
The net loss in Mortgage Banking improved by 18% during 2013 when compared to 2012, driven by an increase in net interest 

income and a decrease in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower revenue and increased expenses. However, th
e results were significantly impacted by the Form 8-K items that reduced income in both years and increased expenses in 2013. 

Excluding these Form 8-K items, Mortgage Banking had a more substantial improvement in net loss in 2013 compared to 2012 

driven primarily by a moderate decrease in noninterest expense compared to 2012. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. 

GAAP Measures - Annual," for a reconciliation of provision for credit losses, noninterest income, and noninterest expense, excl
uding Form 8-K items, including the impact to the Mortgage Banking segment. The decrease in noninterest expense and provision for 

credit losses, excluding the Form 8-K items, was the result of improved credit quality and a continued improvement in the opera
ting environment. Noninterest income, excluding the Form 8-K items, decreased significantly during 2013 compared to 2012 and was 

driven by lower current year mortgage revenue due to a decline in production volume and gain on sale margins which were due 

to the increase in mortgage rates and a decline in mortgage servicing income driven by lower net MSR hedge performance that 

was also a result of higher interest rates. These declines were partially offset by a lower mortgage repurchase provision. As e
xpected, when interest rates began to rise in 2013 our refinance activity declined, but our home purchase volume increased 16% compared 

to 2012. In 2014, we expect further growth in our purchase volume, although it is not expected to offset the decline in refinan
ce activity expected in 2014. We announced during the fourth quarter of 2013 that we would exit the broker origination channel, 

which represented approximately 10% of our loan production in 2013 and approximately 15% in 2012. Additionally, we announced 

that we would right-size our mortgage business. As a part of these initiatives, we will reduce our mortgage staff by approximat
ely 800 full-time equivalent employees. These actions are anticipated to be a significant factor in reducing core expenses by 

approximately $50 million per quarter. Full realization of this reduction in core expenses is anticipated to be included in Mor
tgage Banking results by the second quarter of 2014.  
Additional information related to our segments can be found in Note 20, "Business Segment Reporting," to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, and further discussion of segment results for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 

and 2011, can be found in the "Business Segment Results" section of this MD&A.
39Consolidated Daily Average Balances, Income/Expense, and Average Yields Earned/Rates PaidTable 2
201320122011
(Dollars in millions; yields on taxable-equivalent basis)Average
BalancesIncome/ExpenseYields/
RatesAverage
BalancesIncome/ExpenseYields/
RatesAverage
BalancesIncome/ExpenseYields/
RatesAssets
Loans: 1C&I - FTE 2$54,788$2,1813.98%
$51,228$2,3294.55%$46,027$2,3685.14%
CRE4,5131463.24
4,5171653.655,3231983.72
Commercial construction701243.46
816313.791,173453.85
Residential mortgages - guaranteed3,7081062.85
5,5891652.964,5871573.42
Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed23,0079584.17
22,6211,0234.5221,9261,0884.96
Home equity products14,4745253.63
14,9625513.6815,8415943.75
Residential construction549274.91
692365.17862455.21
Guaranteed student loans5,4262073.82
6,8632653.874,9202094.26
Other direct2,5351114.37
2,226974.341,868894.75
Indirect11,0723773.41
10,4684033.859,6904394.53
Credit cards646629.66
5675710.065115911.61
Nonaccrual 31,238332.63
2,344311.323,580340.95
Total loans122,6574,7573.88
122,8935,1534.19116,3085,3254.58
Securities AFS:Taxable22,3835692.54
21,8756402.9323,9737703.21
Tax-exempt - FTE 
2258135.18
368205.33502285.48
Total securities AFS - FTE22,6415822.57
22,2436602.9724,4757983.26
Fed funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased
under agreements to resell1,024Š0.02
897Š0.04992ŠŠ
LHFS3,0961073.44
3,2671123.412,255934.13
Interest-bearing deposits21Š0.09
22Š0.2122Š0.15
Interest earning trading assets4,289691.61
4,157651.553,750792.10
Total earning assets153,7285,5153.59
153,4795,9903.90147,8026,2954.26
ALLL(2,121)(2,295)(2,702)Cash and due from banks4,5305,4825,203
Other assets14,28714,85416,831
Noninterest earning trading assets1,6602,1842,708
Unrealized gains on securities AFS4132,4302,598
Total assets$172,497$176,134$172,440
Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity
Interest-bearing deposits:NOW accounts$26,083$170.07%
$25,155$230.09%$24,751$350.14%
Money market accounts42,655540.13
42,101880.2142,8541610.38
Savings5,74030.05
5,11350.104,53570.15
Consumer time9,0181021.13
10,5971451.3712,4511981.59
Other time4,937641.29
5,954911.527,0361221.73
Total interest-bearing consumer and commercial
deposits88,4332400.27
88,9203520.4091,6275230.57
Brokered time deposits2,030512.49
2,204773.422,3061014.38
Foreign deposits35Š0.13
51Š0.1780Š0.57
Total interest-bearing deposits90,4982910.32
91,1754290.4794,0136240.66
Funds purchased63910.10
79810.111,03820.13
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase1,85730.14
1,60230.182,15730.15
Interest-bearing trading liabilities705172.45
676152.24851263.04
Other short-term borrowings4,953130.26
6,952180.273,465120.36
Long-term debt9,8722102.12
11,8062992.5313,4964493.33
Total interest-bearing liabilities108,5245350.49
113,0097650.68115,0201,1160.97
Noninterest-bearing deposits38,64337,32931,045
Other liabilities3,6024,3483,972
Noninterest-bearing trading liabilities5619531,707
Shareholders™ equity21,16720,49520,696
Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$172,497$176,134$172,440
Interest Rate Spread3.10%
3.22%3.29%
Net interest income - FTE 
4$4,980$5,225$5,179
Net Interest Margin
53.24%3.40%3.50%
 1 Interest income includes loan fees of $153 million, $112 million, and $138 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012,
 and 2011, respectively.
 2 
Interest income includes the effects of taxable-equivalent adjustments using a federal income tax rate of 35% and, where applic
able, state income taxes to increase tax-exempt interest 
income to a taxable-equivalent basis. The net taxable-equivalent adjustments were $127 million, $123 million, and $114 million 
for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 
2011, respectively.
 3 Income on consumer and residential nonaccrual loans, if recognized, is recognized on a cash basis. 4 
Derivative instruments that manage our interest-sensitivity position increased net interest income $444 million, $528 million, 
and $639 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 
2012, and 2011, respectively.
 5 The net interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income Œ FTE by average total earning assets.
40Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income 
1Table 3 2013 Compared to 20122012 Compared to 2011(Dollars in millions on a taxable-equivalent basis)Volume  Rate  Net  
Volume  Rate  Net  
Increase/(Decrease) in Interest Income
Loans:C&I - FTE 2$155($303)($148)
$250($289)($39)
CREŠ(19)(19)
(29)(4)(33)
Commercial construction(4)(3)(7)
(13)(1)(14)
Residential mortgages - guaranteed(53)(6)(59)
31(23)8
Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed17(82)(65)
34(99)(65)
Home equity products(18)(8)(26)
(32)(11)(43)
Residential construction(7)(2)(9)
(9)Š(9)
Guaranteed student loans(55)(3)(58)
77(21)56
Other direct13114
16(8)8
Indirect22(48)(26)
33(69)(36)
Credit cards7(2)5
6(8)(2)
Nonaccrual(19)212
(14)11(3)
Securities AFS:Taxable15(86)(71)
(65)(65)(130)
Tax-exempt - FTE 
2(6)(1)(7)
(7)(1)(8)
Fed funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resellŠŠŠŠ11LHFS(6)1(5)
36(18)18
Interest earning trading assets2248(22)(14)
Total increase/(decrease) in interest income63(538)(475)
322(627)(305)
(Decrease)/Increase in Interest Expense
NOW accounts1(7)(6)
1(13)(12)
Money market accounts1(35)(34)
(3)(70)(73)
Savings1(3)(2)
1(3)(2)
Consumer time(20)(23)(43)
(28)(25)(53)
Other time(14)(13)(27)
(17)(14)(31)
Brokered time deposits(6)(20)(26)
(4)(20)(24)
Securities sold under agreements to repurchaseŠŠŠ(1)1Š
Interest-bearing trading liabilities112(5)(6)(11)
Other short-term borrowings(5)Š(5)
10(4)6
Long-term debt(45)(44)(89)
(52)(99)(151)
Total decrease in interest expense(86)(144)(230)
(98)(253)(351)
Net increase/(decrease) in net interest income$149($394)($245)
$420($374)$46
1 Changes in net interest income are attributed to either changes in average balances (volume change) or changes in average rates
 (rate change) for earning assets and sources 
of funds on which interest is received or paid. Volume change is calculated as change in volume times the previous rate, while 
rate change is change in rate times the 
previous volume. The rate/volume change, change in rate times change in volume, is allocated between volume change and rate cha
nge at the ratio each component bears 
to the absolute value of their total.2 Interest income includes the effects of the taxable-equivalent adjustments to increase tax-exempt interest income to a taxable-
equivalent basis.Net Interest Income/Margin
Net interest income on an FTE basis was $5.0 billion during 2013, a decrease of $245 million, or 5%, compared to 2012. The 

decrease was driven by lower earning asset yields as a result of the low interest rate environment, the elimination of the Coke
 dividend income in 2012, and lower commercial loan swap-related income. These factors were partially offset by lower rates 

paid on deposits and long-term debt, a decline in our average long-term debt, and the continued favorable shift in the deposit 

mix. Net interest margin decreased 16 basis points to 3.24% during 2013, compared to 3.40% during 2012 as a result of the 

same factors as the decline in net interest income.
Average earning assets remained relatively unchanged during 2013 compared to 2012, slightly increasing $249 million to 

$153.7 billion. An increase of $398 million, or 2%, in our average securities AFS portfolio was largely offset by a $236 millio
n reduction in average loans. The decline in average loans was largely due to sales of government-guaranteed residential 

mortgages and student loans during the latter half of 2012. Average nonaccrual loans also declined 47%, driven by ongoing 
41credit quality improvement and the sales of NPLs during 2012. These decreases were partially offset by targeted growth in 

C&I loans of $3.6 billion, or 7%, and consumer loans, excluding guaranteed student loans, which increased approximately 

7% compared to the 2012.
Yields on average earning assets declined 31 basis points to 3.59% during 2013, compared to 3.90% during 2012. The yield 

on our loan portfolio during 2013 was 3.88%, a decrease of 31 basis points compared to the prior year driven by a decline in 

commercial loan swap-related income and the persistent low interest rate environment. The securities AFS portfolio yielded 

2.57% during 2013, down 40 basis points compared to 2012. The yield decline for securities AFS was primarily driven by 

the prepayments and maturities of higher yielding securities, reinvestment of principal cash flow at lower yields, and the 

foregone dividend income on the Coke common stock.
We utilize interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk. The largest notional position of these swaps are pay variable-rece
ive fixed interest rate swaps that convert a portion of our commercial loan portfolio from floating rates, based on LIBOR, to fixed
 rates. At December 31, 2013, the outstanding notional balance of active swaps that qualified as cash flow hedges on variable 

rate commercial loans was $17.3 billion, compared to $17.4 billion at December 31, 2012. In addition to the income recognized 

from currently outstanding swaps, we also continue to recognize interest income over the original hedge period resulting from 

terminated or de-designated swaps that were previously designated as cash flow hedges on variable rate commercial loans. 

Interest income from our commercial loan swaps declined to $417 million during 2013 compared to $508 million during 

2012. The $91 million decline was primarily due to a decline in income from the maturity of $2.1 billion of active swaps 

during 2013 and $9.0 billion of previously terminated swaps that reached their original maturity date during 2012 and 2013. 

However, we added $2.0 billion of new pay variable-receive fixed commercial loan swaps during 2013 after interest rates 

increased, which aided net interest income during the year. As we manage our interest rate risk we may purchase additional 

and/or terminate existing interest rate swaps. Our notional balance of active swaps will begin to mature in the second quarter 

of 2014 with remaining maturities through 2018, absent any additions or terminations. The average maturity of our active 

swap notional balances at December 31, 2013, was 2 years and $12.5 billion of our active swap notional balances will mature 

by December 31, 2016. As the swap balances mature, the interest income from the swap balances is expected to decline and 

our overall asset sensitivity position is expected to increase.
The commercial loan swaps have a fixed rate of interest that is received, while the rate paid is based on LIBOR. The weighted 

average rate on the receive fixed rate leg of the swap portfolio is 2.05%. Estimated income of these swaps is included in the 
table below and is based on the assumption of unchanged LIBOR rates relative to December 31, 2013, which may be different 

than our assumption for future interest rates. Actual income from these swaps may vary from estimates, as the interest rate 

environment may change, we may purchase additional swaps, and/or we may terminate existing swaps.Table 4Ending NotionalBalance of Active Swaps
(in billions)Estimated Net Interest Income
Related to Swaps(in millions)First Quarter 2014$17.3$101

Second Quarter 201416.198

Third Quarter 201416.193

Fourth Quarter 201412.679

As of and for the year ended December 31, 20156.6134
Average interest-bearing liabilities decreased $4.5 billion, or 4%, during 2013 compared to the prior year, and average rates 

on interest-bearing liabilities were 0.49% during 2013, a decrease of 19 basis points compared to the prior year. The average 

balance decrease was predominantly a result of a $2.6 billion, or 16%, decrease in average higher-cost time deposits, a $2.0 

billion, or 29%, reduction in average other short-term borrowings, and a $1.9 billion, or 16%, reduction in average long-term 

debt. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $2.1 billion, or 3%, in average lower cost deposits. The continue
d shift in the deposit mix toward lower cost deposit products from higher cost products also included an increase during 2013 
of $1.3 billion, or 4%, in average demand deposits compared to 2012. The decline in average long-term debt was primarily 

attributable to the redemption of $1.2 billion of higher cost trust preferred securities, which had a weighted average interest rate of approximately 7%, as well as the extinguishment of a $1.0 billion FHLB advance and $1.2 billion of senior notes 

related to the Coke transaction in 2012. Partially offsetting these declines, we responded to the low interest rate environment
 during 2013 and issued $600 million of 10-year senior notes at a 2.75% coupon, as well as $750 million of 5-year senior notes 

at a 2.35% coupon. The reduction in average other short-term borrowings was due to a reduction in average short-term FHLB 

advances during 2013. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, we  issued $250 million of 3-year floating rate senior notes and 
42$600 million of 3-year fixed rate senior notes under our Global Bank Note program. The notes pay a floating coupon rate of 

3-month LIBOR plus 44 basis points and a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.35%, respectively. 

The decrease of 19 basis points on rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due 

to a 41 basis point decline in rates paid on long-term debt, driven by the aforementioned redemption and extinguishments, 

and a 15 basis point decline in rates paid on total interest bearing deposits, which included a 13 basis point decrease in rates paid on consumer and commercial deposits. The decline in the overall average rate paid on consumer and commercial deposits 

was a result of the improved funding mix driven by the shift from higher cost deposit products to lower cost deposit products, 

as well as a decline in market interest rates.
During 2013, the interest rate environment was characterized by a steepening in the yield curve compared to 2012, as rates 

at the long end of the yield curve increased. More specifically, for the year ended December 31, 2013, benchmark rates were 

as follows compared to the same period in 2012: one-month LIBOR averaged 0.19%, a decrease of 5 basis points, three-

month LIBOR averaged 0.27%, a decrease of 16 basis points, five-year swaps averaged 1.32%, an increase of 34 basis points, 

and ten-year swaps averaged 2.47%, an increase of 59 basis points. During 2013, the Fed funds target rate averaged 0.25% 

and the Prime rate averaged 3.25%, both unchanged from 2012. 
Looking forward, we expect the net interest margin to decline during 2014 compared to 2013, albeit at a slower pace relative 

to the decline we experienced this year. The drivers of this decline will be further compression in loan yields due to the 

continued low short-term interest rate environment, partially offset by the benefits of a steeper yield curve. Specifically, th
e steeper curve is beneficial to spread income and the positive benefit should be noticed in our results over time as existing 

loans and securities provide cash flows that we can redeploy at higher yields. Additionally, assuming loan growth continues, 

we anticipate improvements to net interest income during 2014 compared to 2013.
Foregone Interest

Foregone interest income from NPLs reduced the net interest margin by 3 basis points during 2013, compared to a reduction 

of 8 basis points during 2012, as average nonaccrual loans decreased by $1.1 billion during the year ended December 31, 

2013. See additional discussion of our expectations of future credit quality in the ﬁLoans,ﬂ ﬁAllowance for Credit Losses,ﬂ 

and ﬁNonperforming Assetsﬂ sections of this MD&A. Tables 2 and 3 contain more detailed information concerning average 

balances, yields earned, and rates paid.NONINTEREST INCOMETable 5 Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Service charges on deposit accounts$657$676$685
Other charges and fees369402415
Card fees 1310316463
Trust and investment management income518512531
Retail investment services267241230
Investment banking income356342317
Trading income182211248
Mortgage production related income/(loss)314343(5)
Mortgage servicing related income87260224
Net securities gains21,974117
Other noninterest income15296196
Total noninterest income$3,214$5,373$3,421
Total noninterest income, excluding Form 8-K items 
2$3,277$3,898$3,421
1 PIN interchange fees are presented in card fees along with other interchange fee income for the year ended December 31, 2013. P
reviously, these PIN 
interchange fees were presented in other charges and fees and therefore, for comparative purposes, $76 million and $92 million 
of PIN interchange fees 
have been reclassified to card fees for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
2 See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," in this MD&A for a reconciliation of noninterest income, exc
luding Form 8-K 
items.43Noninterest income decreased $2.2 billion, or 40%, during 2013 compared to 2012, driven by a $2.0 billion decrease in net 

securities gains primarily due to the sale of our Coke common stock in 2012, which was part of our Form 8-K items in 2012. 

Excluding the impact of Form 8-K items from 2013 and 2012, noninterest income decreased $621 million, or 16%, during 

2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was driven by a decline in mortgage-related revenue as a result of a decline in production 

volume and lower gain on sale margins and a decline in net MSR hedge performance. Partially offsetting the decrease was 

higher wealth management and capital markets revenue, as well as a decline in the mortgage repurchase provision and mark-

to-market valuation losses on our fair value debt and index-linked CDs in 2013 compared to 2012. See Table 36, "Reconcilement 

of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," in this MD&A for a reconciliation of noninterest income, excluding Form 8-K items.

Other charges and fees decreased $33 million, or 8%, during 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily due to 

lower insurance premium income due to a reduction of mortgage reinsurance agreements and lower letter of credit and loan 
commitment fee income.
Retail investment services income increased $26 million, or 11%, during 2013 compared to 2012 due to fixed and variable 

annuity sales and growth in managed accounts. Investment banking income increased $14 million, or 4%, during 2013 

compared to 2012. The increase was primarily driven by growth in merger and acquisition advisory and equity transaction 

fee revenue, as well as syndication and bond origination activity. 

Trading income decreased $29 million, or 14%, compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily due to lower core trading 

income impacted by higher interest rates and a reduction in trading-related reserves in 2012. These declines were partially 

offset by a $69 million decline in mark-to-market valuation losses on our fair value debt and index-linked CDs.

Mortgage production related income decreased $29 million, or 8%, during 2013 compared to 2012 due to a decline in production 

volume, compression of gain on sale margins, and lower lock volume associated with a drop in applications, partially offset 

by a lower mortgage repurchase provision. Excluding the Form 8-K items, mortgage production income declined 47% primarily 

due to the aforementioned reasons. The reduction in gain on sale margins was a result of industry competition. Applications 

decreased 35% during 2013 compared to 2012 and loan production volume decreased 7% from the prior year to $29.9 billion, 

both due to a decline in loan refinance activity as a result of the increase in interest rates during the year. Mortgage produc
tion during 2013 was comprised of approximately 64% in refinance activity, but refinance production decreased 16% compared 

to 2012. However, during 2013, loan purchase production increased 16%, and we expect further growth in purchase production 

in 2014, though it will not offset an expected decline in refinance activity during 2014.

During 2013, the mortgage repurchase provision was $114 million, a decrease of $599 million compared to 2012. The lower 

provision was predominantly driven by the $371 million increase to the mortgage repurchase reserve in the third quarter of 

2012, which was the result of information received during 2012 from the GSEs and our experience related to demands, both 

of which enhanced our ability to estimate losses related to remaining expected demands on foreclosed and currently delinquent 

pre-2009 GSEs loan sales. During 2013, we reached agreements with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae under which Freddie Mac 

and Fannie Mae released us from certain existing and future repurchase obligations for loans sold to Freddie Mac between 

2000 and 2008 and Fannie Mae between 2000 and 2012. While the majority of both repurchase settlements was covered by 

our existing mortgage repurchase reserve, we increased the provision during 2013 by $63 million as a result of these settlement
s, as the population of loans included under the agreements was broader than the population of loans considered under our 

existing mortgage repurchase reserve. The reserve for mortgage repurchases was $78 million at December 31, 2013, a decrease 

of $554 million from December 31, 2012, resulting from the recognition of losses on resolved repurchase requests and the 

recognition of certain legacy mortgage matters during the year, which included payments to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 

under the settlement agreements. However, the 2013 agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac settling certain aspects 

of our repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases arising from certain types of events, and that 

preservation of rights can impact our future losses. While the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of settling claim
s related to required repurchases, our estimate of losses depends on our assumptions regarding GSE and other counterparty 

behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. For additional information on the mortgage repurchase reserve, 

see Note 17, "Guarantees," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K and the "Critical Accounting Policies" 

section in this MD&A. See Part I., "Item 1A. Risk Factors," in this Form 10-K for further information regarding our potential 

for additional liability.

Mortgage servicing related income decreased $173 million, or 67%, during 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily 

due to less favorable net MSR hedge performance, an increase in the decay of the servicing asset, and a smaller servicing 

portfolio resulting in lower servicing fees. Net MSR hedge performance is highly sensitive to the market interest rate 

environment, which became volatile and increased during 2013. As a result of the higher and more volatile interest rate 

environment, our hedge became only slightly accretive to income during 2013. The increase in decay of the servicing asset 

was due to the elevated level of refinance volume during the first half of 2013, prior to the reduction in refinance activity 

during the second half of 2013 due to higher interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the servicing portfolio was $136.7 billion 
44compared to $144.9 billion at December 31, 2012. The decline was driven by the sales of servicing on certain loans in the 

servicing portfolio.
Net securities gains decreased $2.0 billion during 2013 compared to 2012 due to the early termination during 2012 of agreements
 regarding our previously owned shares of Coke common stock, resulting in a $1.9 billion gain on disposition of the stock in 

2012. For further discussion regarding our investment portfolio activity and the Coke transaction, see the ﬁSecurities Availabl
e for Saleﬂ section in this MD&A.
Other noninterest income increased $56 million, or 58%, during 2013 compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to 

a $92 million loss recognized in 2012 upon the transfer to LHFS of guaranteed student and mortgage loans to be sold and the 

sale during 2013 of held for sale affordable housing properties resulting in a gain on sale of $17 million. This was partially 

offset by $50 million in lease financing asset impairments in 2013 as a result of updated market indicators of the residual 

values of the assets. For additional information on the lease financing impairment, see Note 18, "Fair Value Election and 

Measurement," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.NONINTEREST EXPENSETable 6 Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Employee compensation$2,488$2,603$2,494
Employee benefits413474382
   Personnel expenses2,9013,0772,876
Outside processing and software746710653
Net occupancy expense348359356
Operating losses503277377
Credit and collection services264239275
Regulatory assessments181233300
Equipment expense181188178
Marketing and customer development135184184
Consulting and legal fees73165120
Postage and delivery697681
Other staff expense669495
Communications636363
Operating supplies283445
Amortization/impairment of intangible assets/goodwill234643
Other real estate expense4140264
Impairment of affordable housing investments39610
Net loss/(gain) on debt extinguishmentŠ16(3)
Other expense292326317
Total noninterest expense$5,880$6,323$6,234
Total noninterest expense, excluding Form 8-K items 
1$5,461$6,189$6,234
1 See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," in this MD&A for a reconciliation of noninterest expense, exc
luding Form 8-K 
items.Noninterest expense decreased $443 million, or 7%, during 2013 compared to 2012, driven by declines across most expense 

categories including personnel expenses, legal and consulting expenses, and certain cyclically high credit-related costs (drive
n by other real estate expense), partially offset by higher operating losses. Excluding the impact of Form 8-K items in 2013 and 

2012, noninterest expense decreased 12% due to improved expense management and the abatement of certain cyclically high 

credit-related costs. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual," in this MD&A for a reconciliation 

of noninterest expense, excluding Form 8-K items 
Personnel expenses decreased $176 million, or 6%, compared to 2012. The decrease was largely attributable to lower salary 

and other benefits costs during the year, partially driven by the decline in full time equivalent employees from 2012. Full tim
e equivalent employees declined by 2% compared to 2012, as a result of efficiency improvements, particularly in our branch 

staffing model as we reduced our number of branches by 7% compared to December 31, 2012, to better align our distribution 

channels with evolving client preferences. Additional branch reductions will occur in 2014, but the rate of decline will be les
s 45than in 2013. Benefits expense decreased in part due to lower 401(k) expense, medical costs, and pension expense in 2013 

compared to 2012.
Outside processing and software increased $36 million, or 5%, during 2013 compared to 2012. The increase was primarily 

due to increased utilization of outsourced services.
Operating losses increased $226 million, or 82%, compared to 2012, due to specific mortgage-related legal matters that were 

recognized in 2013. Excluding items included in the Form 8-K in 2013, which included $323 million related to these matters 

in 2013, operating losses decreased by 35% from 2012 due to declines related to mortgage-related regulatory and legal matters. 

Specifically in 2013, we reached agreements in principle with the HUD and the U.S. DOJ (collectively, the "Government") 

to settle certain civil and administrative claims related to our origination of FHA-insured mortgage loans and our portion of 
the National Mortgage Servicing Settlement, which pertains to mortgage servicing and origination practices. We are continuing 

to negotiate definitive settlement terms for each of these matters but have certain substantive disagreements with some of the 

positions being taken by the Government. We may be unable to resolve our disagreements with the Government and may not 

reach a definitive settlement agreement as it relates to the FHA matter. While our 2013 results reflect the estimated cost of 

resolving these matters, we face several risks from these settlements, including being unable to reach definitive settlement 

agreements reflecting the terms of the agreements in principle and being unable to meet certain consumer relief commitments, 

resulting in increased costs to resolve these matters. Also, we are not able to predict the effect that a failure to resolve th
e FHA matter will have on the agreement in principle to settle the alleged claims regarding our mortgage servicing and originatio
n practices. See further discussion of these matters in Note 19, "Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 

Part I., "Item 1A. Risk Factors," in this Form 10-K.
Credit and collection services expense increased $25 million, or 10%, compared to 2012, primarily due to an increase in the 

mortgage servicing advance reserve during 2013. We increased the reserve as a result of an expanded review of our servicing 

advance practices and the sale of MSRs on approximately $1 billion in UPBs of predominantly delinquent mortgage loans. 

As a result of the review of servicing advances and the MSR sale, we refined our loss estimates and valuation methodologies 

to incorporate loss estimates on all advances while the prior methodology centered on aged advances. This $96 million reserve 

increase was part of the Form 8-K items in 2013 and, when excluding these items, credit and collection services expense 

decreased 30% from 2012, primarily due to declines in credit and collection costs as a result of the significant decline in 

average NPAs during 2013.

Other real estate expense decreased $136 million, or 97%, compared to 2012. The decrease was predominantly due to a decline 

in valuation losses and an increase in gains on sales. It is unlikely that gains will continue to largely offset expenses, so f
uture expenses may increase from the current level, but as the economic environment improves over time, we expect that other real 

estate expense will continue to be notably lower than the elevated levels during 2011 and 2012. During 2014, we expect 

modest aggregate declines in cyclical costs (which includes operating losses, other real estate expense, and credit and collect
ion services) compared to 2013; however, operating losses can be volatile and could impact those expectations. 

Regulatory assessments decreased $52 million, or 22%, compared to 2012, due to declines in our FDIC insurance assessment 

rate, reflecting our reduced risk profile. Partially offsetting the decrease were additional regulatory supervisory fees impose
d on large institutions during 2013. Marketing and customer development expense decreased $49 million, or 27%, compared 

to 2012, primarily as a result of our charitable contribution during 2012 of previously owned Coke shares. Other staff expense 

decreased $28 million, or 30%, compared to 2012, driven by declines in severance expenses compared to 2012.  
Consulting and legal expenses decreased $92 million, or 56%, compared to 2012, predominantly due to the elimination of 

certain expenses associated with the Independent Foreclosure Review that was part of the Consent Order. We entered into an 

Amendment to the Consent Order in February 2013 that allowed us to begin eliminating consulting and legal costs of 

independent third parties providing file review, borrower outreach, and legal services associated with the Consent Order 

foreclosure file review. For additional information regarding the Consent Order and the Amendment, see Note 19, 

ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.
Amortization/impairment of intangible assets/goodwill decreased $23 million, or 50%, compared to 2012. The decrease was 

partially due to a $7 million goodwill impairment related to GenSpring in 2012. The remaining $16 million decrease in 

amortization expense is due to a decrease in the core deposit and other intangible asset balances subject to amortization.
Affordable housing impairment decreased $93 million, or 97%, compared to 2012, driven by the $96 million write-down 

recognized in 2012, upon the decision to market certain affordable housing investments for sale. Most of these consolidated 

affordable housing properties have been sold with resulting gains included in other noninterest income.  Marketing efforts 

continue on the remaining properties to be sold with an anticipated sale during 2014. At December 31, 2013, market indicators 
46remain consistent with the carrying values of the remaining properties to be sold, and as such, no additional valuation 

adjustments are currently anticipated.
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes includes both federal and state income taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the 

provision for income taxes was $273 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 16.9%. For the year ended December 31, 

2012, the provision for income taxes was $773 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 28.3%. The provision for income 

taxes differs from the provision using statutory rates primarily due to favorable permanent tax items such as income from 

lending to tax exempt entities and federal tax credits from community reinvestment activities. The decrease in the effective 

tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 was primarily due to lower pre-tax earnings as well as the tax benefit realized 

on the taxable reorganization of certain subsidiaries. This tax benefit was partially offset by an increase in STM™s valuation 

allowance related to its DTAs for certain state NOLs and an increase in the liability for UTBs. See Note 14, ﬁIncome Taxes,ﬂ 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information related to the provision for income taxes.

Excluding the impact of Form 8-K items related to 2013 and 2012, the effective tax rate was 27.4% and 22.9%, for the years 

ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate during the year ended December 31, 

2013, was primarily attributable to higher pre-tax income. See Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - 

Annual," in this MD&A for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate excluding Form 8-K items.

LOANS
Our disclosures about the credit quality of our loan portfolio and the related credit reserves (i) describe the nature of credi
t risk inherent in our loan portfolio, (ii) provide information on how we analyze and assess credit risk in arriving at an adequa
te and appropriate ALLL, and (iii) explain the changes in the ALLL and reasons for those changes. 

We report our loan portfolio in three segments: commercial, residential, and consumer. Loans are assigned to these segments 

based upon the type of borrower, purpose, collateral, and/or our underlying credit management processes. Additionally, within 

each segment, we have identified loan types, which further disaggregate loans based upon common risk characteristics.
Commercial
The C&I loan type includes loans to fund business operations or activities, corporate credit cards, loans secured by owner-

occupied properties, and other wholesale lending activities. CRE and commercial construction loan types are based on investor 

exposures where repayment is largely dependent upon the operation, refinance, or sale of the underlying real estate. Commercial
 and construction loans secured by owner-occupied properties are classified as C&I loans, as the primary source of loan 

repayment for owner-occupied properties is business income and not real estate operations.

Residential
Residential mortgages consist of loans secured by 1-4 family homes, mostly prime first-lien loans, both government-guaranteed 

and nonguaranteed. Residential construction loans include owner-occupied residential lot loans and construction-to-perm 

loans. Home equity products consist of equity lines of credit and closed-end equity loans that may be in either a first lien or junior lien position. At December 31, 2013, 37% of our home equity products were in a first lien position and 63% were in 

a junior lien position. For home equity products in a junior lien position, we own or service 29% of the loans that are senior 
to the home equity product. 
Only a small percentage of home equity lines are scheduled to end their draw period and convert to an amortizing term loan 

during 2014, with 92% of home equity line balances scheduled to convert to amortization in 2015 or later and 62% in 2017 

or later. Historically, a majority of accounts have not converted to amortization. Based on historical trends, within 12 months
 of the end of their draw period, approximately 80% of accounts, and approximately 68% of accounts with a balance, are 

closed or refinanced. We perform credit management activities on home equity accounts to limit our loss exposure. These 

activities result in the suspension of available credit of most home equity junior lien accounts when the first lien position i
s delinquent, including when the junior lien is still current. We monitor the delinquency status of first mortgages serviced by 

other parties. Additionally, we actively monitor refreshed credit bureau scores of borrowers with junior liens, as these scores
 are highly sensitive to first lien mortgage delinquency. At December 31, 2013, our home equity junior lien loss severity was 

approximately 87%. At December 31, 2013, the average FICO score related to loans in our home equity portfolio was 760 

and the average outstanding loan size was approximately $48,000.47Consumer
The loan types comprising our consumer loan segment include government-guaranteed student loans, other direct (consisting 

primarily of direct auto loans, loans secured by negotiable collateral, and private student loans), indirect (consisting of loa
ns secured by automobiles, boats, or recreational vehicles), and consumer credit cards.
The composition of our loan portfolio at December 31 is shown in the following table:Loan Portfolio by Types of LoansTable 7
(Dollars in millions)20132012201120102009
Commercial loans:C&I$57,974$54,048$49,538$44,753$44,008
CRE5,4814,1275,0946,1676,694
Commercial construction8557131,2402,5684,984
Total commercial loans64,31058,88855,87253,48855,686
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - guaranteed3,4164,2526,6724,520949
Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed124,41223,38923,24323,95925,847
Home equity products14,80914,80515,76516,75117,783
Residential construction5537539801,2911,909
Total residential loans43,19043,19946,66046,52146,488
Consumer loans:Guaranteed student loans5,5455,3577,1994,2602,786
Other direct2,8292,3962,0591,7221,484
Indirect11,27210,99810,1659,4996,665
Credit cards731632540485566
Total consumer loans 20,37719,38319,96315,96611,501
LHFI$127,877$121,470$122,495$115,975$113,675
LHFS$1,699$3,399$2,353$3,501$4,670
1 Includes $302 million, $379 million, $431 million, $488 million, and $437 million of loans carried at fair value at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 
2010, and 2009, respectively.
We believe that our loan portfolio is well diversified by product, client, and geography throughout our footprint. However, 

our loan portfolio may be exposed to certain concentrations of credit risk which exist in relation to individual borrowers or 

groups of borrowers, certain types of collateral, certain industries, certain loan products, or certain regions of the country.
 As 
seen below in Table 10, we have experienced a shift in our loans by geography since December 31, 2012. Specifically, the 

percentage of our loans to clients outside of our banking footprint compared to our total loan portfolio increased, primarily 

as a result of an increase in loans in our CIB business which serves clients nationwide. See Note 6, ﬁLoans,ﬂ to the Consolidat
ed Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for more information.Selected Loan Maturity DataTable 8(Dollars in millions)At December 31, 2013Total1 year or less1-5 yearsAfter 5 years
Loan Maturity
   Commercial and commercial real estate 1$57,880$21,953$32,414$3,513
    Real estate - construction85515563466
        Total$58,735$22,108$33,048$3,579
Interest Rate Sensitivity
Selected loans with:
   Predetermined interest rates$5,124$1,989
   Floating or adjustable interest rates27,9241,590
        Total$33,048$3,579
1 Excludes $4.9 billion in lease financing and $705 million in installment loans.48The following table shows our commercial lending exposure at December 31 to selected industries:Funded Exposures by Selected IndustriesTable 9
20132012(Dollars in millions)Loans    % of Total
Loans    % of Total
Real Estate$8,50013%
$6,33111%
Consumer Products and Services8,15213
7,69313
Diversified Financials and Insurance7,24911
7,15512
Health Care & Pharmaceuticals5,9959
5,87510
Government5,0368
3,9647
Automotive4,6047
3,8166
Energy and Utilities3,9716
3,4196
Retailing3,7156
3,6266
Diversified Commercial Services and Supplies3,4605
3,4146
Capital Goods3,0575
3,4116
Media & Telecommunication Services2,4944
2,4664
Religious Organizations/Non-Profits1,8993
1,8843
Transportation1,8963
1,7373
Materials1,8603
1,9603
Technology (Hardware & Software)1,2262
1,0682
Individuals, Investments, and Trusts9062
9022
Other Industries290Š
167Š
   Total$64,310100%
$58,888100%
The following table shows the percentage breakdown of our LHFI portfolio by geographic region at December 31:Loan Types by GeographyTable 102013 CommercialResidentialConsumer
(Dollars in millions)Loans% of totalLoans% of totalLoans% of total
Geography:Florida$12,00319%$10,77025%$3,68318%
Georgia8,175136,210141,5398
Virginia7,052116,312151,6338
Tennessee4,68972,48967384
North Carolina3,58353,90291,4647
Maryland3,43154,09791,4027
South Carolina1,12222,02354122
District of Columbia1,0662727295Š
Total banking region41,1216436,5308510,96654
California, Illinois, Pennsylvania,
Texas, New Jersey, New York
12,131193,81195,04325
All other states11,058172,84964,36821
Total outside banking region23,189366,660159,41146
Total$64,310100%$43,190100%$20,377100%
492012 CommercialResidentialConsumer
(Dollars in millions)Loans% of totalLoans% of totalLoans% of total
Geography:Florida$11,36119%$11,12326%$3,58618%

Georgia10,178176,188141,4678

Virginia6,758126,089141,6679
Tennessee4,69682,50467204
North Carolina3,27563,82691,5288

Maryland3,29363,75191,4047

South Carolina86612,09753872

District of Columbia6341637194Š
Total banking region41,0617036,2158410,85356
California, Illinois, Pennsylvania,
Texas, New Jersey, New York8,475143,78394,41923

All other states9,352163,20174,11121
Total outside banking region17,827306,984168,53044

Total$58,888100%$43,199100%$19,383100%
Loans Held for Investment
LHFI were $127.9 billion at December 31, 2013, an increase of 5% compared to December 31, 2012. We continued to make 

progress in our loan portfolio diversification strategy, as we were successful in both growing targeted commercial balances 

and in reducing our exposure to certain higher risk loans. Continuing to manage down our commercial and residential 

construction portfolios resulted in an $8.6 billion decrease since the end of 2008, which has driven a significant improvement 

in our risk profile. Average loans during 2013 totaled $122.7 billion. See the "Net Interest Income/Margin" section of this 

MD&A for more information regarding average loan balances. Overall economic indicators in our markets are improving, 

and organic loan production in home equity and consumer loans, excluding student, has been solid and our commercial loan 

pipelines have increased.
Commercial loans increased $5.4 billion, or 9%, during 2013 compared to December 31, 2012. Growth was driven by C&I 

loans, encompassing a diverse array of large corporate and middle market borrowers, as well as CRE loans. C&I loans increased 

$3.9 billion, or 7%, compared to December 31, 2012, primarily driven by broad-based growth across the portfolio. The most 

notable increases were in the not-for-profit, government, dealer, asset securitizations, energy, and asset-based lending 

portfolios. CRE loans increased $1.4 billion, or 33%, compared to December 31, 2012, with the majority of the increase in 

the portfolio due to expanded relationships with clients in our footprint, growth in our institutional business, and success in
 our REIT platform.

As the commercial real estate market has continued to strengthen over the past 18 months, we are rebuilding our CRE portfolio 

with loans to high quality clients. For risk diversification, we have strict limits and exposure caps both on specific projects
 and on borrowers. We believe that our investor-owned portfolio is appropriately diversified by borrower, geography, and 

property type. We continue to be proactive in our credit monitoring and management processes to provide early warning of 

problem loans. 
Residential loans remained relatively stable during 2013 as nonguaranteed residential mortgages increased $1.0 billion, or 

4%, compared to December 31, 2012, while that growth was partially offset by an $836 million, or 20%, decrease in 

government-guaranteed residential mortgages compared to December 31, 2012. Nonguaranteed residential mortgages 

increased due to loan originations primarily to borrowers with strong credit characteristics (e.g., average FICO scores above 

760), including high quality jumbo mortgages, and were secured by residential properties with LTVs that averaged below 

80%. The decrease in government-guaranteed loans was the result of payments and payoffs primarily driven by refinance 

activity.

Consumer loans increased $994 million, or 5%, during 2013 compared to December 31, 2012, primarily driven by increases 

in other direct loans of $433 million and $188 million of growth in government-guaranteed student loans. The increases were 

largely due to purchases of guaranteed student loans and new originations of other direct and installment loans.
50Loans Held for Sale
LHFS decreased $1.7 billion, or 50%, during 2013 from December 31, 2012, due to the decline in mortgage production as 
a result of the higher interest rate environment.
Asset Quality
Our asset quality continued to trend favorably during 2013, driven by improvement in asset quality metrics, resolution of 

existing NPAs, and lower inflows of NPLs. This was driven by positive trends in our residential portfolios due to lower  

delinquencies and loss severities, and higher prices upon disposition of foreclosed assets.  
NPLs decreased $576 million, or 37%, compared to December 31, 2012, largely the result of a decline in residential mortgage 

NPLs. Contributing to the decline was the reclassification of approximately $219 million of loans previously discharged in 

Chapter 7 bankruptcy to accruing TDR status after they exhibited a six month period of payment performance since being 

discharged. Our NPLs have decreased significantly since their peak in 2009, down by $4.4 billion, or 82%. At December 31, 

2013, the percentage of NPLs to total loans was 0.76%, down 51 basis points compared to December 31, 2012. We expect 

further, but moderating, declines in NPLs during 2014, led by continuing improvements in residential portfolios.

Net charge-offs were $678 million during 2013, compared to $1.7 billion during 2012. Partially driving the $1.0 billion, or 

60%, decline in net charge-offs compared to 2012 were $226 million of charge-offs in 2012 associated with the sale of mortgage 

and commercial real estate NPLs, and $79 million and $65 million of charge-offs in 2012 related to the changes in policy 

related to reclassification to nonaccrual for loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and our junior lien credit policy impact
ing the timing and recognition of charge-offs, respectively. During 2013, the net charge-off ratio fell to 0.55%, the lowest level 

in six years, compared to 1.37% during 2012. We expect net charge-offs to remain relatively stable to slightly lower in the 

coming quarters.  
Total early stage delinquencies decreased to 0.74% of total loans at December 31, 2013, the lowest year-end level since 2006, 

and a decline of 19 basis points compared to December 31, 2012. Early stage delinquencies, excluding government-guaranteed 

loans, improved to 0.36% of total loans at December 31, 2013, compared to 0.48% at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 

2013, the majority of commercial and residential loans showed improvement in early stage delinquencies compared to 

December 31, 2012. Further improvement in early stage delinquencies will be driven by residential loans.
Overall, 2013 resulted in a further improvement in our risk profile and positive trends in our asset quality. Looking forward, 

a recovering economy and improving housing market should continue to drive positive, albeit moderating, asset quality trends, 

particularly in our residential portfolios; commercial and consumer portfolios are generally at or near normalized credit quali
ty levels.
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The allowance for credit losses consists of both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. Reflecting the favorable 

trends in credit quality, the ALLL declined to $2.0 billion at December 31, 2013, down $130 million, or 6%, compared to 

December 31, 2012. The ALLL represented 1.60% of total loans at December 31, 2013, down 20 basis points compared to 

December 31, 2012. See Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies," and Note 7, "Allowance for Credit Losses," to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, as well as the "Allowance for Credit Losses" section within "Critical 

Accounting Policies" in this MD&A for further information regarding our ALLL accounting policy, determination, and 

allocation. 51Summary of Credit Losses ExperienceTable 11
Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)20132012201120102009
Allowance for Credit Losses
Balance - beginning of period$2,219$2,505$3,032$3,235$2,379
Allowance recorded upon VIE consolidationŠŠŠ1Š
Provision/(benefit) for unfunded commitments5(3)(10)(57)87
Provision for loan losses:5481,3981,5232,7084,007
Charge-offs:Commercial loans(219)(457)(803)(1,087)(1,432)
Residential loans(531)(1,316)(1,275)(1,736)(1,707)
Consumer loans(119)(134)(163)(195)(259)
Total charge-offs(869)(1,907)(2,241)(3,018)(3,398)
Recoveries:Commercial loans661541409984
Residential loans8731182017
Consumer loans3841434459
Total recoveries191226201163160
Net charge-offs(678)(1,681)(2,040)(2,855)(3,238)
Balance - end of period$2,094$2,219$2,505$3,032$3,235
Components:ALLL$2,044$2,174$2,457$2,974$3,120
Unfunded commitments reserve 150454858115
Allowance for credit losses$2,094$2,219$2,505$3,032$3,235
Average loans$122,657$122,893$116,308$113,925$121,041
Period-end loans outstanding127,877121,470122,495115,975113,675
Ratios:ALLL to period-end loans 
2,31.60%1.80%2.01%2.58%2.76%
ALLL to NPLs 
4212142857359
ALLL to net charge-offs3.01x1.29x1.20x1.04x0.96x
Net charge-offs to average loans0.55%1.37%1.75%2.51%2.67%
1 The unfunded commitments reserve is recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
2 $302 million, $379 million, $433 million, $492 million, and $449 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, resp
ectively, of LHFI carried at fair value were 
excluded from period-end loans in the calculation.3 Excluding government-guaranteed loans of $9.0 billion, $9.6 billion, $13.9 billion, $8.8 billion, and $3.7 billion at December 
31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, 
from year-end loans in the calculation results in ratios of 1.72%, 1.95%, 2.27%,  2.79%, and 2.84%, respectively.
4 In calculating the ratio, $7 million, $19 million, $25 million, $28 million, and $46 million, at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011,
 2010, and 2009, respectively, of NPLs carried 
at fair value were excluded.Charge-offs

Net charge-offs decreased by $1.0 billion, or 60%, in 2013 compared to 2012, largely driven by general improvement in credit 

quality in 2013. The decrease was also partially due to $226 million of net charge-offs in 2012 related to the sale of 

nonperforming mortgage and CRE loans, as well as the recognition of $65 million in incremental charge-offs related to our 

second lien credit policy change, and $79 million related to our credit policy change for loans discharged in Chapter 7 

bankruptcy in response to regulatory guidance issued in 2012. The decline in net charge-offs in 2013 compared to 2012 was 

particularly notable in our residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, reflective of the improved economy and therefore 

borrower performance. The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans was 0.55% during 2013, a reduction of 82 basis points 

compared to 2012, and at the lowest level in six years. We expect net charge-offs to remain relatively stable to slightly lower
 in the coming quarters. See Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 

10-K for additional policy information related to charge-offs. 

Provision for Credit Losses
The total provision for credit losses includes the provision for loan losses, as well as the provision for unfunded commitments
. The provision for loan losses is the result of a detailed analysis performed to estimate an appropriate and adequate ALLL. 
52During 2013, the provision for loan losses decreased $850 million, or 61%, compared to 2012. The change in the provision 

for loan losses was largely attributable to improvements in credit quality trends and lower net charge-offs during 2013 compare
d to 2012, partially offset by the effect of loan growth in the commercial and consumer loan portfolios. In 2014, positive loan 

growth may offset future asset quality improvements and result in smaller declines in the provision for loan losses or potentia
l increases in the provision for loan losses when compared to prior periods.
ALLL and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments
Allowance for Loan Losses by Loan SegmentTable 12December 31(Dollars in millions)20132012201120102009
ALLLCommercial loans$946$902$964$1,303$1,353
Residential loans9301,1311,3541,4981,592
Consumer loans168141139173175
Total$2,044$2,174$2,457$2,974$3,120
Segment ALLL as a % of total ALLLCommercial loans46%41%39%44%43%
Residential loans4652555051
Consumer loans87666Total100%100%100%100%100%
Loan segment as a % of total loansCommercial loans50%48%46%46%49%
Residential loans3436384041
Consumer loans1616161410
Total100%100%100%100%100%
The ALLL decreased by $130 million, or 6%, during 2013 compared to 2012, driven by the improvements in credit conditions 

of the residential loan portfolio, partially offset by the effect of loan growth in the commercial and consumer loan portfolios
. At December 31, 2013, the ALLL to period-end loans ratio of 1.60% decreased 20 basis points compared to 1.80% at December 31, 

2012. When excluding government-guaranteed loans, the ALLL to period-end loans ratio decreased to 1.72% at December 31, 

2013, compared to 1.95% at December 31, 2012. The ratio of the ALLL to total NPLs was 212% at December 31, 2013, 

compared to 142% at December 31, 2012. The increase in this ratio was primarily attributable to the $576 million decrease 

in NPLs, partially offset by the reduction in the ALLL. The appropriate ALLL level will continue to be determined by our 

detailed quarterly review process. 53NONPERFORMING ASSETS

The following table presents our NPAs at December 31:
Table 13(Dollars in millions)20132012201120102009
Nonaccrual/NPLsCommercial loans:C&I$196$194$348$584$732
CRE3966288342191
Commercial construction12342909611,247
Total commercial NPLs2472949261,8872,170
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed4417751,3921,5432,283
Home equity products210341338355367
Residential construction61112220290529
Total residential NPLs7121,2281,9502,1883,179
Consumer loans:Other direct567108
Indirect719202545
Total consumer NPLs1225273553
Total nonaccrual/NPLs9711,5472,9034,1105,402
OREO1170264479596620
Other repossessed assets79105279
Nonperforming LHFS1737ŠŠŠ
Total NPAs$1,165$1,857$3,392$4,758$6,101
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more$1,228$782$2,028$1,565$1,500
Accruing LHFS past due 90 days or moreŠ1322
TDRsAccruing restructured loans $2,749$2,501$2,820$2,613$1,641
Nonaccruing restructured loans23916398021,005913
RatiosNPLs to total loans0.76%1.27%2.37%3.54%4.75%
Nonperforming assets to total loans plus OREO,
other repossessed assets, and nonperforming LHFS0.911.522.764.085.33
1 Does not include foreclosed real estate related to loans insured by the FHA or the VA. Proceeds due from the FHA and the VA are
 recorded as a receivable in other 
assets until the funds are received and the property is conveyed. The receivable amount related to proceeds due from FHA or the
 VA totaled $88 million, $140 
million, $132 million, $195 million, and $113 million at 
December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010,
 and 2009, respectively.
2 Nonaccruing restructured loans are included in total nonaccrual/NPLs.NPAs decreased $692 million, or 37%, during 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily attributable to a $576 

million, or 37%, decrease in NPLs, and a $94 million decline in OREO. All nonaccrual loan classes declined except C&I, 

which remained relatively unchanged compared to 2012. Net charge-offs, foreclosures, and improved loan performance 

contributed to the decrease in NPLs, as well as the return to accruing status of Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans. Specifically, the 

decrease in NPLs was driven by reductions in residential mortgage NPLs of $334 million, or 43%, and home equity NPLs of 

$131 million, or 38%. The decrease in residential mortgage NPLs was primarily due to the return to accruing TDR status of 

approximately $219 million of Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans, which were current for at least six months following discharge 

by the bankruptcy court. At December 31, 2013, our ratio of NPLs to total loans was 0.76%, down from 1.27% at December 31, 

2012 as a result of the decline in NPLs and the increase in total loans. We expect further, but moderating, declines in NPLs 

during 2014, led by continuing improvements in residential portfolios.
Real estate related loans comprise a significant portion of our overall NPAs as a result of the devaluation of U.S. housing 

during the recent economic recession. The amount of time necessary to obtain control of residential real estate collateral in 

certain states, primarily Florida, has remained elevated due to delays in the foreclosure process. These delays may continue 

to impact the resolution of real estate related loans within the NPA portfolio.
54Nonaccrual loans, loans over 90 days past due and still accruing, and TDR loans, are problem loans or loans with potential 

weaknesses that are disclosed in the NPA table above. Loans with known potential credit problems that may not otherwise 

be disclosed in this table include accruing criticized commercial loans, which are disclosed along with additional credit quali
ty information in Note 6, ﬁLoans,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. At December 31, 2013 and 

December 31, 2012, there were no known significant potential problem loans that are not otherwise disclosed.
Nonperforming Loans
Nonperforming commercial loans decreased $47 million, or 16%, during 2013 compared to 2012 with reductions in CRE 

NPLs of $27 million, or 41%, and $22 million, or 65%, in commercial construction NPLs. 
Nonperforming residential loans were the largest driver of the overall decline in NPLs, decreasing $516 million, or 42%, 

during 2013 compared to 2012. The reduction in nonguaranteed residential mortgage NPLs and home equity NPLs accounted 

for $334 million and $131 million, respectively, of this decrease, and was primarily the result of the return of certain perfor
ming Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans to accruing status, net charge-offs, pay-offs, improved loan performance, and foreclosures. 

Additionally, residential construction NPLs decreased $51 million, primarily as a result of net charge-offs.

Interest income on consumer and residential nonaccrual loans, if recognized, is recognized on a cash basis. Interest income 

on commercial nonaccrual loans is not generally recognized until after the principal has been reduced to zero. We recognized  

$33 million and $31 million of interest income related to nonaccrual loans during 2013 and 2012, respectively. If all such 

loans had been accruing interest according to their original contractual terms, estimated interest income of $73 million and 

$147 million during 2013 and 2012, respectively, would have been recognized.

Other Nonperforming Assets

OREO decreased $94 million, or 36%, during 2013 compared to 2012 as a result of net decreases of $56 million in residential 

construction related properties, $34 million in commercial properties, and $4 million in residential homes. Sales of OREO 

resulted in proceeds of $356 million and $493 million during 2013 and 2012, respectively, contributing to net gains on sales 

of OREO of $69 million and $34 million, respectively, inclusive of valuation reserves. We do not expect to see a continuation 

of net gains on sale in future periods given the elevated level of gains during 2013. Gains and losses on the sale of OREO are 

recorded in other real estate expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Sales of OREO and the related gains or losses 

are highly dependent on our disposition strategy and buyer opportunities. See Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement,ﬂ 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information. 
Geographically, most of our OREO properties are located in Florida, Georgia, and North Carolina. Residential and commercial 

properties comprised 69% and 19%, respectively, of OREO at December 31, 2013; the remainder is related to land and other 

properties. Upon foreclosure, the values of these properties were reevaluated and, if necessary, written down to their then-

current estimated value less estimated costs to sell. Any further decreases in values could result in additional losses on thes
e properties as we periodically revalue them as further discussed in Note 18, "Fair Value Election and Measurement," to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. We are actively managing and disposing of these foreclosed assets to 

minimize future losses.
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, total accruing loans past due ninety days or more included LHFI and LHFS and totaled $1.2 

billion and $783 million, respectively. Accruing LHFI past due ninety days or more increased by $446 million, or 57%, during 

2013, primarily driven by guaranteed student loan delinquencies. Residential mortgages and student loans that are guaranteed 

by a federal agency comprised 96% and 92%, respectively, of loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing at December 

31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. At the same dates, $48 million and $60 million, respectively, of accruing loans past due 

ninety days or more were not guaranteed.
Restructured Loans
To maximize the collection of loan balances, we evaluate troubled loans on a case-by-case basis to determine if a loan 

modification would be appropriate. We pursue loan modifications when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate 

modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. For loans secured by residential real estate, if the client
 demonstrates a loss of income such that the client cannot reasonably support a modified loan, we may pursue short sales and/

or deed-in-lieu arrangements. For loans secured by income producing commercial properties, we perform an in-depth and 

ongoing programmatic review. We review a number of factors, including cash flows, loan structures, collateral values, and 

guarantees to identify loans within our income producing commercial loan portfolio that are most likely to experience distress.
 Based on our review of these factors and our assessment of overall risk, we evaluate the benefits of proactively initiating 

discussions with our clients to improve a loan™s risk profile. In some cases, we may renegotiate terms of their loans so that 
55they have a higher likelihood of continuing to perform. To date, we have restructured loans in a variety of ways to help our 

clients service their debt and to mitigate the potential for additional losses. The primary restructuring methods being offered
 to our residential clients are reductions in interest rates and extensions of terms. For commercial loans, the primary restruct
uring method is the extension of terms.
Loans with modifications deemed to be economic concessions resulting from borrower financial difficulties are reported as 

TDRs. Accruing loans may retain accruing status at the time of restructure and the status is determined by, among other things,
 the nature of the restructure, the borrower's repayment history, and the borrower's repayment capacity. Nonaccruing loans 

that are modified and demonstrate a sustainable history of repayment performance, typically six months, in accordance with 

their modified terms are generally reclassified to accruing TDR status. Generally, once a residential loan becomes a TDR, we 

expect that the loan will continue to be reported as a TDR for its remaining life even after returning to accruing status unles
s the modified rates and terms at the time of modification were available in the market at the time of the modification. We note 

that some restructurings may not ultimately result in the complete collection of principal and interest (as modified by the 

terms of the restructuring), culminating in default, which could result in additional incremental losses. These potential 

incremental losses have been factored into our overall ALLL estimate through the use of loss forecasting methodologies. The 

level of re-defaults will likely be affected by future economic conditions. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, specific reserves 

included in the ALLL for residential TDRs were $345 million and $348 million, respectively. See Note 6, "Loans," to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for more information.
Representatives of the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Virginia (USAO) and the Office of the 

Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (collectively the ﬁWestern Districtﬂ) have advised STM of 

the status of their ongoing investigation of STM's administration of HAMP. The Western District's investigation focuses on 

whether, during 2009 and 2010, STM harmed borrowers and violated civil or criminal laws by making misrepresentations 

and failing to properly process applications for modifications of certain mortgages owned by the GSEs pursuant to the HAMP 

guidelines. While no determinations have been made, the Western District has indicated that they intend to pursue some form 

of action and may impose substantial penalties on STM. STM continues to cooperate with the investigation and believes that 

it has substantial defenses to the asserted allegations. 
Separately, we have committed to providing $500 million in consumer relief pursuant to the National Mortgage Servicing 

Settlement agreement in principle with certain parties. At December 31, 2013, our financial statements reflect our estimated 

costs of fulfilling our commitments under this program. A final agreement in the Mortgage Servicing Settlement matter has 

not been reached and the methods by which we will meet these obligations are still being developed. An expansion in the 

number and type of restructuring methods for consumer clients, including principal forgiveness, is expected as a result of 

these consumer relief commitments. Additionally, certain modification methods under consideration could be deemed to be 

economic concessions and result in additional modified loans being reported as TDRs.

See additional discussion related to HAMP, Consent Order, and the Mortgage Servicing Settlement in Note 19, 

ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.56The following tables display our residential real estate TDR portfolio by modification type and payment status. Guaranteed 

loans that have been repurchased from Ginnie Mae under an early buyout clause and subsequently modified have been excluded 

from the table. Such loans totaled approximately $54 million and $24 million at December 31, 2013 and  2012, respectively.
Selected Residential TDR Data
Table 14December 31, 2013Accruing TDRsNonaccruing TDRs
(Dollars in millions)CurrentDelinquent
1TotalCurrentDelinquent
1TotalRate reduction$692$90$782$27$50$77
Term extension17421167
Rate reduction and term extension1,4391351,57427127154
Other 218013193165470
Total$2,328$242$2,570$71$237$308
December 31, 2012Accruing TDRsNonaccruing TDRs
(Dollars in millions)CurrentDelinquent
1TotalCurrentDelinquent
1TotalRate reduction$470$37$507$36$45$81

Term extension164203710

Rate reduction and term extension1,5621721,73478209287

Other 272917239211
Total$2,055$215$2,270$289$300$589
1 TDRs considered delinquent for purposes of this table were those at least thirty days past due.2 Primarily consists of extensions and deficiency notes.At December 31, 2013, our total TDR portfolio was $3.1 billion and was composed of $2.9 billion, or 92%, of residential 

loans (predominantly first and second lien residential mortgages and home equity lines of credit), $150 million, or 5%, of 

commercial loans (predominantly income-producing properties), and $110 million, or 3%, of consumer loans.

Total TDRs did not change compared to December 31, 2012; however, the mix of TDRs changed as accruing TDRs were up 

$248 million, or 10%, offset by a decrease in nonaccruing TDRs of $248 million, or 39%. The increase in accruing TDRs 

was primarily due to the return of approximately $219 million of Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans to accruing TDR status from 

nonaccruing TDR.
Generally, interest income on restructured loans that have met sustained performance criteria and have been returned to 

accruing status is recognized according to the terms of the restructuring. Such recognized interest income was $118 million 

and $111 million during 2013 and 2012, respectively. If all such loans had been accruing interest according to their original 

contractual terms, estimated interest income of $157 million and $151 million during 2013 and 2012, respectively, would 

have been recognized.57SELECTED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE

The following is a discussion of the more significant financial assets and financial liabilities that are currently carried at 
fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013 and 2012. For a complete discussion of our fair value elections 

and the methodologies used to estimate the fair values of our financial instruments, see Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and 

Measurement,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.Trading Assets and Liabilities and DerivativesTable 15
December 31(Dollars in millions)20132012Trading Assets and Derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities$219$111Federal agency securities426462U.S. states and political subdivisions6534MBS - agency323432CDO/CLO securities5755ABS636Corporate and other debt securities534567CP2928Equity securities109100Derivatives 1, 21,3842,083Trading loans 
31,8882,319Total trading assets and derivatives$5,040$6,227Trading Liabilities and Derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities$472$582Corporate and other debt securities179173Equity securities59Derivatives 1, 2525412Total trading liabilities and derivatives$1,181$1,1761 Certain derivative assets of $37 million and derivative liabilities of $49 million are presented in trading assets and derivati
ves and trading liabilities and derivatives, respectively, at December 31, 2013. Previously, these derivative assets and liabilities were presented in other as
sets and other liabilities, 
respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For comparative purposes, $178 million of derivative assets and $15 million o
f derivative liabilities have been reclassified to trading assets and derivatives and trading liabilities and derivatives, respectively, at December 31, 2012
.2 Amounts include the impact of offsetting cash collateral received from and paid to the same derivative counterparties and the i
mpact of netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement exists. 3 Includes loans related to TRS.
Trading Assets and Liabilities and Derivatives

Trading assets and derivative assets decreased $1.2 billion, or 19%, compared to December 31, 2012, primarily due to decreases 

in net derivatives resulting from the interest rate environment and a reduction in TRS trading loans. Trading liabilities and 

derivative liabilities remained relatively unchanged compared to December 31, 2012. An increase in net derivatives was offset 

by a decrease in U.S. Treasury securities, as a result of normal business activity. See Note 16, "Derivative Financial 

Instruments," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information on derivatives.58Securities Available for SaleTable 16 December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)AmortizedCostUnrealized
GainsUnrealized
LossesFairValue
U.S. Treasury securities$1,334$6$47$1,293
Federal agency securities1,0281357984
U.S. states and political subdivisions23272237
MBS - agency18,91542142518,911
MBS - private15512154
ABS782179
Corporate and other debt securities393Š42
Other equity securities18411Š842
Total securities AFS$22,622$454$534$22,542
1 At December 31, 2013, other equity securities included the following: $336 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock, $402 million in Fe
deral Reserve Bank stock, $103 million in mutual fund investments, and $1 million of other. 
 December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)AmortizedCostUnrealizedGainsUnrealizedLossesFairValue
U.S. Treasury securities$212$10$Š$222

Federal agency securities1,9878532,069

U.S. states and political subdivisions310155320

MBS - agency17,416756318,169

MBS - private2054Š209

ABS21453216

Corporate and other debt securities424Š46

Other equity securities17011Š702
Total securities AFS$21,087$880$14$21,953
1 At December 31, 2012, other equity securities included the following: $229 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock, $402 million in Fe
deral Reserve Bank stock, $69 million in mutual fund investments, and $2 million of other.
 December 31, 2011(Dollars in millions)AmortizedCostUnrealizedGainsUnrealizedLossesFairValue
U.S. Treasury securities$671$23$Š$694

Federal agency securities1,84389Š1,932

U.S. states and political subdivisions437214454

MBS - agency20,480743Š21,223

MBS - private252Š31221

CDO securities5
0ŠŠ50
ABS460117464

Corporate and other debt securities492Š51

Coke common stockŠ2,099Š2,099

Other equity securities19281Š929
Total securities AFS$25,170$2,989$42$28,117
1 At December 31, 2011, other equity securities included the following: $342 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock, $398 million in Fe
deral Reserve Bank stock, $187 million in mutual fund investments, and $2 million of other.
59Maturity Distribution of Securities Available for SaleTable 17
December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)1 Year
or Less
1-5Years
5-10Years
After 10
Years
TotalDistribution of Maturities:Amortized Cost1:U.S. Treasury securities$1$645$688$Š$1,334
Federal agency securities512615661501,028
U.S. states and political subdivisions102662143232
MBS - agency1,5755,7807,8003,76018,915
MBS - privateŠ155ŠŠ155
ABS58182Š78
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ2217Š39
Total debt securities$1,787$6,947$9,094$3,953$21,781
Fair Value
1:U.S. Treasury securities$1$647$645$Š$1,293
Federal agency securities51271518144984
U.S. states and political subdivisions104702142237
MBS - agency1,6655,9697,7563,52118,911
MBS - privateŠ154ŠŠ154
ABS57202Š79
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ2517Š42
Total debt securities$1,878$7,156$8,959$3,707$21,700
Weighted average yield (FTE)
2:U.S. Treasury securities1.24%1.62%2.06%Š%1.85%
Federal agency securities3.303.072.412.862.69
U.S. states and political subdivisions5.896.265.263.525.50
MBS - agency2.762.582.922.842.79
MBS - privateŠ9.00ŠŠ9.00
ABS2.5311.779.01Š4.87
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ4.812.70Š3.89
Total debt securities2.95%2.72%2.83%2.85%2.81%
1The amortized cost and fair value of investments in debt securities are presented based on estimated average life.  Actual cash
 flows may differ from estimated 
average lives and contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without penalties.2Average yields are based on amortized cost.
Securities Available for Sale

The securities AFS portfolio is managed as part of our overall ALM process to optimize income and portfolio value over an 

entire interest rate cycle while mitigating the associated risks. Changes in the size and composition of the portfolio during 

2013 reflect our efforts to maintain a high quality portfolio while managing our interest rate and liquidity risk profile. The 

portfolio increased $1.5 billion in 2013 compared to December 31, 2012, primarily due to increased holdings of U.S. Treasury 

securities and agency MBS as a result of normal portfolio activity. This increase in amortized cost was offset by a decline in 

net unrealized gains of $946 million due primarily to the increase in market interest rates during the year.  During the year, 

our holdings in ABS, government agency securities, municipal securities, and private MBS were lower due to sales, maturities 

and cash flow run-off.

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded $2 million in net realized gains from the sale of securities AFS, 

compared to net realized gains of $2.0 billion during the year ended December 31, 2012, including $1 million and $7 million 

in OTTI, respectively. The $2.0 billion in gains recorded during 2012 included $1.9 billion in net securities gains from the 

sales of the Coke common stock as a result of the early termination of the Agreements. For additional information on 

composition and valuation assumptions related to securities AFS, see Note 5, "Securities Available for Sale," and the ﬁTrading 

Assets and Securities Available for Saleﬂ section of Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement,ﬂ to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.60For the year ended December 31, 2013, the average yield, on a FTE basis, for the securities AFS portfolio was 2.57%, compared 

with 2.97% for the year ended December 31, 2012. Prepayments and maturities of higher yielding securities, reinvestment 

of principal cash flow at lower yields, and the foregone dividend income on the Coke common stock drove the decline in 

yield on securities AFS. Our total investment securities portfolio had an effective duration of 4.7 years at December 31, 2013 

compared to 2.2 years at December 31, 2012. The increase in the effective duration is a result of cash flow reinvestment 

activities and slower agency MBS prepayment assumptions associated with higher mortgage rates during the year ended 

December 31, 2013. Effective duration is a measure of price sensitivity of a bond portfolio to an immediate change in market 

interest rates, taking into consideration embedded options. An effective duration of 4.7 years suggests an expected price chang
e of 4.7% for a one percent instantaneous change in market interest rates.
The credit quality and liquidity profile of the securities portfolio remained strong at December 31, 2013, and consequently, 

we have the flexibility to respond to changes in the economic environment and take actions as opportunities arise to manage 

our interest rate risk profile and balance liquidity against investment returns. Over the longer term, the size and composition
 of the investment portfolio will reflect balance sheet trends, our overall liquidity, and interest rate risk management objecti
ves. Accordingly, the size and composition of the investment portfolio could change meaningfully over time.

Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank Stock
We hold capital stock in the FHLB of Atlanta and in the Federal Reserve Bank. In order to be an FHLB member, we are 

required to purchase capital stock in the FHLB. In exchange, members take advantage of competitively priced advances as 

a wholesale funding source and access grants and low-cost loans for affordable housing and community-development projects, 

amongst other benefits. At December 31, 2013, we held a total of $336 million of capital stock in the FHLB, an increase of 

$107 million compared to December 31, 2012. In order to become a member of the Federal Reserve System, regulations 

require that we hold a certain amount of capital stock as either a percentage of the Bank™s capital or as a percentage of total
 deposit liabilities. At December 31, 2013, we held $402 million of Federal Reserve Bank stock, unchanged from December 

31, 2012.
Investment in Coke
Prior to September 2012, we owned common shares of Coke since 1919. These shares grew in value and were classified as 

securities AFS with unrealized gains, net of tax, recorded as a component of shareholders' equity. Because of the low accountin
g cost basis of these shares, we accumulated significant unrealized gains in shareholders' equity.  In 2008, we entered into two 

Agreements with an unaffiliated third party to deliver to the counterparty either a variable number of our shares in Coke or 

an equivalent amount of cash in lieu of such shares on the 2014 and 2015 settlement dates. In 2012, we reevaluated our Coke 

holdings in light of the regulatory proposal regarding Basel III, which, as proposed at that time, would have increased the 

RWA of equity holdings and would have introduced potential volatility to our regulatory capital ratios via fluctuations in 

AOCI, and the negative implications associated with equity securities in assumed adverse economic scenarios within future 
CCAR assessments. Following this review, we and the counterparty accelerated the termination of the Agreements. In 

September 2012, we divested our ownership of Coke shares through sales in the market, sales to the counterparty under the 

Agreements, and a charitable contribution of shares. As a result of the Coke stock sales, charitable contribution, and terminat
ion of the Agreements, we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2012. The 

execution and termination of the Agreements is discussed further in Note 16, "Derivative Financial Instruments," to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.61DEPOSITSComposition of Average DepositsTable 18
 Year Ended December 31Percent of Total
(Dollars in millions)201320122011
201320122011
Noninterest-bearing$38,643$37,329$31,045
30%29%25%
NOW accounts26,08325,15524,751
202020
Money market accounts42,65542,10142,854
333334
Savings5,7405,1134,535
444Consumer time9,01810,59712,451
7810
Other time4,9375,9547,036
445Total consumer and commercial deposits127,076126,249122,672
989898
Brokered time deposits2,0302,2042,306
222Foreign deposits355180
ŠŠŠTotal deposits$129,141$128,504$125,058
100%100%100%
During 2013, we experienced modest deposit growth as well as improving deposit mix as the proportion of lower-cost deposit 

account balances slightly increased, while the higher-cost account balances decreased. These favorable trends, along with 

continued low rates paid on deposits, were a major contributor to our decline in interest expense during the year. Average 

consumer and commercial deposits increased by $827 million, or 1%, compared to 2012. The growth was driven by increases 

in noninterest-bearing DDA, NOW, money market, and savings, and was partially offset by declines in consumer time and 

other time deposits. While a portion of the low-cost deposit growth is likely attributable to clients™ desires related to incre
ased liquidity, we are also driving growth by deepening high value primary client relationships through exceptional service and 

relevant deposit products. As of December 31, 2013, securities pledged as collateral for deposits totaled $9.6 billion.

Consumer and commercial deposit growth remains one of our key areas of focus. During 2013, we continued to focus on 

deepening our relationships with existing clients, growing our client base, and increasing deposits, while managing the rates 

we pay for deposits. We maintained pricing discipline, through a judicious use of competitive rates in select products and 

markets as we allowed higher rate time deposits to run-off, while growing balances in other deposit categories. Other initiativ
es to attract deposits included advancements in analytics that leverage client segmentation to identify optimal products and 

solutions, as well as the deployment of new tools that enhance client-facing teammates™ focus on providing clients with 

personalized options and an exceptional client experience. We continued to leverage our brand to improve our visibility in 

the marketplace and to inspire client loyalty and capitalize on some of the opportunities presented by the evolving banking 

landscape. We continue to manage judiciously through the implications of impending or executed regulatory change and 

evaluate the impacts to our deposit products and clients.Maturity of Consumer Time and Other Time Deposits in Amounts of $100,000 or MoreTable 19
 At December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)ConsumerTime
Brokered
TimeTotal
Months to maturity:3 or less$816$43$859
Over 3 through 61,1215741,695
Over 6 through 121,0326451,677
Over 121,6127622,374
Total$4,581$2,024$6,605
62BORROWINGS
Short-Term BorrowingsTable 20December 31, 2013Year Ended December 31, 2013
BalanceRate
Daily AverageMaximumOutstanding atany Month-End(Dollars in millions)BalanceRate
Funds purchased 1$1,1920.07%$6390.10%$1,192
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 11,7590.101,8570.141,911
Other short-term borrowings5,7880.224,9530.265,868
December 31, 2012Year Ended December 31, 2012
BalanceRate
Daily AverageMaximumOutstanding atany Month-End(Dollars in millions)BalanceRate
Funds purchased 1$6170.09%$7980.11%$925
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 11,5740.181,6020.181,781
Other short-term borrowings3,3030.316,9520.2710,697
December 31, 2011Year Ended December 31, 2011
BalanceRate
Daily AverageMaximumOutstanding atany Month-End(Dollars in millions)BalanceRate
Funds purchased 1$8390.09%$1,0380.13%$1,169
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 11,6440.132,1570.152,411
Other short-term borrowings8,9830.223,4650.368,983
1 Funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase mature overnight or at a fixed maturity generally not exceed
ing three months. Rates on overnight funds reflect current market rates. Rates on fixed maturity borrowings are set at the time of the borrowings.Short-Term Borrowings

Our total short-term borrowings at December 31, 2013 increased $3.2 billion, or 59%, from December 31, 2012, predominantly 

due to a $2.5 billion increase in other short-term borrowings and a $575 million increase in funds purchased. The increase in 

other short-term borrowings was driven by a $2.5 billion increase in FHLB advances. We also experienced an increase of 

$185 million in securities sold under agreements to repurchase during the year.

During the year ended December 31, 2013, our total daily average short-term borrowings decreased $1.9 billion, or 20%, 

compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in daily average balance 

for other short-term borrowings of $2.0 billion, which was due to ordinary balance sheet management practices, as well as 

the payoff and maturity of certain FHLB advances during 2013.

During the year ended December 31, 2013, our daily average balances for funds purchased and other short-term borrowings 

were lower than our period-end balances as a result of increased borrowing in the second half of 2013. Our daily average 

balance of securities sold under agreements to repurchase during the year ended December 31, 2013 was higher than the 

balance at December 31, 2013, due to normal fluctuations resulting from ordinary balance sheet management practices. None 

of our maximum outstanding balances at any month-end in 2013 were materially different than the respective balances at 

December 31, 2013.63Long-Term Debt 

Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of the following:Long-Term DebtTable 21(Dollars in millions)20132012Parent Company OnlySenior, fixed rate$3,001$2,270Senior, variable rate283152Subordinated, fixed rate200200Junior subordinated, variable rate627627Total Parent Company debt4,1113,249SubsidiariesSenior, fixed rate1,006426Senior, variable rate 
13,7833,846Subordinated, fixed rate 21,3001,336Subordinated, variable rate500500Total subsidiaries debt6,5896,108Total long-term debt$10,700$9,357  1 Includes $256 million and $286 million of debt recorded at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
2 Debt recorded at fair value.During the year ended December 31, 2013, our long-term debt increased $1.3 billion, or 14%. The increase was primarily 

due to the issuances of $600 million of 10-year senior notes under our Global Bank Note program and $750 million of 5-year 

senior notes during 2013. The 10-year senior notes pay a fixed annual coupon rate of 2.75% and will mature on May 1, 2023. 

We may call the notes at par beginning on April 1, 2023. The 5-year senior notes pay a fixed annual coupon rate of 2.35% 

and will mature on November 1, 2018. We may call the notes beginning on October 1, 2018. These debt issuances allowed 

us to advantageously add to our funding sources at low borrowing rates. Average long-term debt decreased $1.9 billion, or 

16%, compared to 2012 due to a $1.1 billion decline in average senior debt, a $640 million decrease in average subordinated 

debt, and a $222 million decline in average senior foreign-denominated debt, driven by the extinguishment of $1.2 billion of 

senior notes, the repurchase of $1.2 billion of trust preferred notes, and the maturity of $589 million of senior foreign-

denominated notes in 2012, respectively.

In January 2014, we issued $250 million of 3-year floating rate senior notes under our Global Bank Note program. The notes 

pay a floating coupon rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 44 basis points. Also in January 2014, we issued $600 million of 3-year 

senior notes under our Global Bank Note program. The notes pay a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.35%. We may call both 

issuances beginning on January 15, 2017, and they will mature on February 15, 2017. Similar to our debt issuances in 2013, 

these issuances subsequent to December 31, 2013 also allowed us to add to our funding sources at low borrowing rates.
CAPITAL RESOURCES

Our primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, measures capital adequacy within a framework that makes capital 

requirements sensitive to the risk profiles of individual banking companies. The guidelines risk weight assets and off-balance 

sheet risk exposures according to predefined classifications, creating a base from which to compare capital levels. Tier 1 

capital primarily includes realized equity and qualified preferred instruments, less purchase accounting intangibles such as 

goodwill and core deposit intangibles, and certain other regulatory deductions. Total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Ti
er 2 capital, which includes qualifying portions of subordinated debt, ALLL up to a maximum of 1.25% of RWA, and 45% of 

the unrealized gain on equity securities. Additionally, mark-to-market adjustments related to our estimated credit spreads for 

debt and index linked CDs accounted for at fair value are excluded from regulatory capital.
Both the Company and the Bank are subject to minimum Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios of 4% and 8%, respectively. 

To be considered ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂ ratios of 6% and 10%, respectively, are required. Additionally, the Company and the 

Bank are subject to requirements for the Tier 1 leverage ratio, which measures Tier 1 capital against average total assets less
 certain deductions, as calculated in accordance with regulatory guidelines. The minimum and well-capitalized leverage ratios 

are 3% and 5%, respectively.
64The concept of Tier 1 common equity, the portion of Tier 1 capital that is considered common equity, was first introduced in 

the 2009 SCAP. Our primary regulator, rather than U.S. GAAP, defines Tier 1 common equity and the Tier 1 common equity 

ratio. As a result, our calculation of these measures may differ from those of other financial services companies who calculate
 them. However, Tier 1 common equity and the Tier 1 common equity ratio continue to be important factors which regulators 

examine in evaluating financial institutions; therefore, we present these measures to allow for evaluations of our capital. 

Further, on October 11, 2013, the Federal Reserve published final rules in the Federal Register related to required minimum 

capital ratios that become effective for us on January 1, 2015. See further discussion below under "Basel III."

On January 1, 2013, the new Risk-Based Capital Guidelines: Market Risk Rule (the "Market Risk Rule") promulgated by the 

Federal Reserve and other U.S. regulators became effective. The application of the Market Risk Rule required changes to the 

computation of RWA associated with assets held in our trading account and expanded the calculation to include a stressed 

VAR measure among other things. See the "Market Risk from Trading Activities" section of this MD&A for additional 

discussion.Regulatory Capital RatiosTable 22December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Tier 1 capital$16,073$14,975$14,490
Total capital19,05218,13118,177
RWA148,746134,524132,940
Average total assets for leverage ratio167,848168,053165,573
Tier 1 common equity:
Tier 1 capital$16,073$14,975$14,490
Less:Qualifying trust preferred securities6276271,854
Preferred stock725725275
Allowable minority interest119114107
Tier 1 common equity$14,602$13,509$12,254
Risk-based ratios:Tier 1 common equity
19.82%10.04%9.22%
Tier 1 capital10.8111.1310.90
Total capital12.8113.4813.67
Tier 1 leverage ratio9.588.918.75
Total shareholders™ equity to assets12.2212.1011.35
1 At December 31, 2013, our Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 ratio as calculated under the final Basel III capital rules was estim
ated to be 9.6%. See the "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - Annual" section in this MD&A for a reconciliation of the current 

Basel I ratio to the estimated Basel III ratio.At December 31, 2013, our capital ratios were well above current regulatory requirements. The small decline in our capital 

ratios compared to December 31, 2012, was primarily due to an increase in our RWA primarily as a result of loan growth 

during 2013, the aforementioned change related to the Market Risk Rule, as well as an increase in off-balance sheet unused 

lending commitments. These increases in RWAs offset the positive impact on our ratios related to an increase in our regulatory 

capital during 2013, which was driven by an increase in retained earnings.
We declared and paid common dividends totaling $188 million, or $0.35 per common share during 2013, compared with $107 

million, or $0.20 per common share during 2012. Additionally, we declared and paid dividends in 2013 and 2012 of $37 

million and $12 million, respectively, on our preferred stock.

Substantially all of our retained earnings are undistributed earnings of the Bank, which are restricted by various regulations 
administered by federal and state bank regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, retained earnings of the Bank 

available for payment of cash dividends to the Parent Company under these regulations totaled approximately $2.6 billion 

and $1.8 billion, respectively.

During 2013, we submitted our capital plan for review by the Federal Reserve in conjunction with the 2013 CCAR process. 
Upon completion of the Federal Reserve's review, they did not object to our planned capital actions. As such, during 2013 

we maintained dividend payments on our preferred stock, increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.05 to $0.10 

beginning in the second quarter, and repurchased a total of $150 million, or approximately 4.6 million shares, of our outstandi
ng common stock. Also pursuant to our capital plan, we repurchased an additional $50 million of our outstanding common stock 
65in early 2014. We have submitted our 2014 capital plan for review by the Federal Reserve in conjunction with the 2014 CCAR 

process and await the completion of their review, which is expected during the first quarter of 2014. 

Basel III
The Dodd-Frank Act will impact the composition of our capital elements in at least two ways over the next several years. 

First, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Federal Reserve to enact ﬁprudentialﬂ capital requirements which require greater 

capital levels than presently required and which vary among financial institutions based on size, risk, complexity, and other 

factors. As expected, the Federal Reserve used this authority by publishing final rules on October 11, 2013. The rules require 

banking organizations such as us to meet revised minimum regulatory capital ratios beginning on January 1, 2015, and begin 

the transition period for the revised definitions of regulatory capital and the revised regulatory capital adjustments and 

deductions, as well as comply with the standardized approach for determining RWAs. Second, a portion of the Dodd-Frank 

Act, sometimes referred to as the Collins Amendment, directs the Federal Reserve to adopt new capital requirements for 

certain bank holding companies, including us, which are at least as stringent as those applicable to insured depositary 

institutions. Furthermore, beginning January 1, 2016, these rules introduce a capital conservation buffer, which places 

restrictions on the amount of retained earnings that may be used for distributions or discretionary bonus payments as risk-

based capital ratios approach their respective ﬁadequately capitalizedﬂ minimums.
Under the final rules, the minimum capital requirements will be a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 4.5%; Tier 1 Capital ratio 

of 6%; Total Capital ratio of 8%; and U.S. Leverage ratio of 4%.  The rules include a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of 

RWA that is effectively layered on top of the minimum capital risk-based ratios. At December 31, 2013, we believe each of 

our regulatory capital ratios exceeds their respective minimum capital ratio requirements under the final rules, as well as the
 2.5% capital conservation buffer, when measured on a fully-phased-in basis.

Furthermore, the final Basel III capital rules require the phase out of non-qualifying Tier 1 Capital instruments such as trust
 preferred securities. As such, over a two year period beginning on January 1, 2015, approximately $627 million in principal 

amount of Parent Company trust preferred and other hybrid capital securities currently outstanding will no longer qualify for 

Tier 1 capital treatment, but instead will only qualify for Tier 2 capital treatment. Accordingly, we anticipate that, by Janua
ry 1, 2016, all $627 million of our outstanding trust preferred securities will lose Tier 1 capital treatment, and will be reclass
ified as Tier 2 capital. We do not expect any impact to our total capital ratio as a result of the transition to Tier 2 capital.

DFAST

As a component of our overall stress testing process, and as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, we and certain other banks are 

required to conduct semi-annual stress tests pursuant to the DFAST Final Rule. During 2013, we disclosed the results of our 

semi-annual DFAST processes for 2013, which were submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 2013 and July 2013. The 

results of our semi-annual DFAST processes indicate that we expect to have the financial resources at our disposal to 

successfully navigate a hypothetical severe and protracted economic downturn and will maintain capital levels that exceed 

regulatory minimums throughout the course of the hypothetical scenario. The detailed results of our semi-annual DFAST 

processes are available on our website at www.suntrust.com.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our significant accounting policies are described in detail in Note 1, ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies,ﬂ to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements in this Form 10-K and are integral to understanding our financial performance. We have identified certain 

accounting policies as being critical because (1) they require judgment about matters that are highly uncertain and (2) differe
nt estimates that could be reasonably applied would result in materially different assessments with respect to ascertaining the 

valuation of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is 

obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or reducing 

a liability. Our accounting and reporting policies are in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and they conform to general practices 

within the financial services industry. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensur
e that these critical accounting estimates are well controlled and applied consistently from period to period, and that the proce
ss for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The following is a description of our current critical accounting 

policies.
Contingencies
We face uncertainty with respect to the ultimate outcomes of various contingencies including the Allowance for Credit Losses, 

mortgage repurchase reserves, and legal and regulatory matters.66Allowance for Credit Losses
The Allowance for Credit Losses is composed of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. The ALLL represents 

our estimate of probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The ALLL is increased by the provision for credit loss
es and reduced by loans charged off, net of recoveries. The ALLL is determined based on our review and evaluation of larger 

loans that meet our definition of impairment and the current risk characteristics of pools of homogeneous loans (i.e., loans 

having similar characteristics) within the loan portfolio and our assessment of internal and external influences on credit qual
ity that are not fully reflected in the historical loss or risk-rating data.
Large commercial nonaccrual loans and certain commercial, consumer, and residential loans whose terms have been modified 

in a TDR, are individually evaluated to determine the amount of specific allowance required using the most probable source 

of repayment, including the present value of the loan's expected future cash flows, the fair value of the underlying collateral
 less costs of disposition, or the loan's estimated market value. In these measurements, we use assumptions and methodologies 

that are relevant to estimating the level of impairment and unrealized losses in the portfolio. To the extent that the data 

supporting such assumptions has limitations, our judgment and experience play a key role in enhancing the specific ALLL 

estimates. Key judgments used in determining the ALLL include internal risk ratings, market and collateral values, discount 

rates, loss rates, and our view of current economic conditions.
General allowances are established for loans and leases grouped into pools that have similar characteristics, including smaller
 balance homogeneous loans. The ALLL Committee estimates probable losses by evaluating quantitative and qualitative factors 

for each loan portfolio segment, including net charge-off trends, internal risk ratings, changes in internal risk ratings, loss
 forecasts, collateral values, geographic location, delinquency rates, nonperforming and restructured loans, origination channel
, product mix, underwriting practices, industry conditions, and economic trends. In addition to these factors, the consumer and 

residential portfolio segments consider borrower FICO scores and the commercial portfolio segment considers single name 

borrower concentration.
Estimated collateral valuations are based on appraisals, broker price opinions, recent sales of foreclosed properties, automate
d valuation models, other property-specific information, and relevant market information, supplemented by our internal property 

valuation professionals. The value estimate is based on an orderly disposition and marketing period of the property. In limited
 instances, we adjust externally provided appraisals for justifiable and well supported reasons, such as an appraiser not being 

aware of certain property-specific factors or recent sales information. Appraisals generally represent the ﬁas isﬂ value of the
 property but may be adjusted based on the intended disposition strategy of the property.

Our determination of the ALLL for commercial loans is sensitive to the assigned internal risk ratings and inherent loss rates 

at December 31, 2013. Assuming a downgrade of one level in the PD risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, the ALLL 

would have increased by approximately $404 million at December 31, 2013. In the event that estimated loss severity rates 

for the entire commercial loan portfolio increased by 10 percent, the ALLL for the commercial portfolio would increase by 

approximately $93 million at December 31, 2013. Our determination of the allowance for residential and consumer loans is 
also sensitive to changes in estimated loss severity rates. In the event that estimated loss severity rates for the residential
 and 
consumer loan portfolio increased by 10 percent, the ALLL for the residential and consumer portfolios would increase, in 

total, by approximately $75 million at December 31, 2013. Because several quantitative and qualitative factors are considered 

in determining the ALLL, these sensitivity analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature and extent of future changes in the 

ALLL. They are intended to provide insights into the impact of adverse changes in risk rating and estimated loss severity 

rates and do not imply any expectation of future deterioration in the risk ratings or loss rates. Given current processes emplo
yed, management believes the risk ratings and inherent loss rates currently assigned are appropriate. It is possible that others, gi
ven the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions that could be material to our financial 

statements. 
In addition to the ALLL, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments, such as letters of credit 

and binding unfunded loan commitments. Unfunded lending commitments are analyzed and segregated by risk similarly to 

funded loans based on our internal risk rating scale. These risk classifications, in combination with an analysis of historical
 loss experience, probability of commitment usage, and any other pertinent information, result in the estimation of the reserve 

for unfunded lending commitments.
Our financial results are affected by the changes in and the absolute level of the Allowance for Credit Losses. This process 

involves our analysis of complex internal and external variables, and it requires that we exercise judgment to estimate an 

appropriate Allowance for Credit Losses. As a result of the uncertainty associated with this subjectivity, we cannot assure the
 precision of the amount reserved should we experience sizeable loan or lease losses in any particular period. For example, 

changes in the financial condition of individual borrowers, economic conditions, or the condition of various markets in which 
67collateral may be sold could require us to significantly decrease or increase the level of the Allowance for Credit Losses. Suc
h an adjustment could materially affect net income as a result of the change in provision for credit losses. For additional discu
ssion of the ALLL see the ﬁAllowance for Credit Lossesﬂ and ﬁNonperforming Assetsﬂ sections in this MD&A as well as Note 6, 

ﬁLoans,ﬂ and Note 7, ﬁAllowance for Credit Losses,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.
Mortgage Repurchase Reserve
We sell residential mortgage loans to investors through whole loan sales in the normal course of our business. The investors 

are primarily GSEs; however, approximately 10% of the population of total loans sold between January 1, 2005 and December 

31, 2013 were sold to non-agency investors, some in the form of securitizations. In association with these transactions, we 

provide representations and warranties to the third party investors that these loans meet certain requirements as agreed to in 
investor guidelines. We have experienced significantly fewer repurchase claims and losses related to loans sold since 2009 

as a result of stronger credit performance, more stringent credit guidelines, and underwriting process improvements.
During the third quarter of 2013, we reached agreements in principle with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae relieving us of certain 

existing and future repurchase obligations related to 2000-2008 vintages for Freddie Mac and 2000-2012 vintages for Fannie 

Mae. The incremental cost of these settlements was recognized in the repurchase reserve as an additional provision of $63 

million in the third quarter of 2013. Repurchase requests have declined significantly in the fourth quarter of 2013 as a result
 of the settlements, as illustrated in the below table.Repurchase Requests by InvestorTable 23
Quarter ended(Dollars in millions)March 31,2013June 30, 2013September 30,2013December 31,2013Total
Repurchase requests received from:
GSEs$487$432$420$154$1,493
Non-agency investors467118
Repurchase requests received since 2005, at December 31, 2013 totaled $8.5 billion which includes Ginnie Mae 

indemnification losses. The following table summarizes demand activity for the years ended December 31:
Repurchase Request ActivityTable 24
(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Beginning pending repurchase requests$655$590$293
Repurchase requests received1,5111,7261,736
Repurchase requests resolved:
  Repurchased(1,134)(769)(789)  Cured(906)(892)(650)Total resolved(2,040)(1,661)(1,439)Ending pending repurchase requests$126$655$590
Percent from non-agency investors:
  Repurchase requests received1.2%1.2%2.9%
  Pending repurchase requests2.82.52.0
As presented in the table above, repurchase requests decreased in 2013 compared to 2012. Repurchase requests received 

during 2013 were primarily related to loans sold in 2007.
Our current estimated liability for contingent losses related to loans sold (i.e., our mortgage repurchase reserve) was $78 

million at December 31, 2013. The liability is recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the relate
d repurchase provision is recognized in mortgage production related income/(loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The current liability reserves are deemed to be sufficient to cover probable estimated losses related to exclusions due to cert
ain defects (MI related reasons, excessive seller contribution, ineligible property and other charter violations) as outlined in th
e 68settlement contract, GSE owned loans serviced by third party servicers, loans sold to private investors, and future 

indemnifications.  
Various factors could potentially impact the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our mortgage repurchase reserve estimate. 

As previously discussed, the level of repurchase requests we receive is dependent upon the actions of third parties and could 

differ from the assumptions that we have made. Delinquency levels, delinquency roll rates, and our loss severity assumptions 

are all highly dependent upon economic factors including changes in real estate values and unemployment levels which are, 

by nature, difficult to predict. Loss severity assumptions could also be negatively impacted by delays in the foreclosure proce
ss, which is a heightened risk in some of the states where our loans sold were originated. Moreover, the 2013 agreements with 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac settling certain aspects of our repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases 

arising from certain types of events, and that preservation of rights can impact our future losses. We understand the FHFA™s 

Office of Inspector General has commenced an audit of the FHFA™s oversight of Fannie Mae™s and Freddie Mac™s exercise 

of their rights under settlement agreements with banks, including Fannie Mae™s and Freddie Mac™s preserved right to require 

repurchases when consumer protection laws have been violated. While the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of 

settling claims related to required repurchases, our estimate of losses depends on our assumptions regarding GSE and other 

counterparty behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. Approximately 16% of the population of total loans 

sold between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2008 were sold to non-agency investors, some in the form of securitizations. 

Due to the nature of these structures and the indirect ownership interests, the potential exists that investors, over time, wil
l become more successful in forcing additional repurchase demands. While we have used the best information available in 

estimating the mortgage repurchase reserve liability, these and other factors, along with the discovery of additional informati
on in the future could result in changes in our assumptions which could materially impact our results of operations. 
See "Noninterest Income" in this MD&A and Note 17, ﬁGuarantees - Loan Sales,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

in this Form 10-K for further discussion.
Legal and Regulatory Matters
We are parties to numerous claims and lawsuits arising in the course of our normal business activities, some of which involve 

claims for substantial amounts, and the outcomes of which are not within our complete control or may not be known for 

prolonged periods of time. Management is required to assess the probability of loss and amount of such loss, if any, in prepari
ng our financial statements.
We evaluate the likelihood of a potential loss from legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. We record a liabil
ity for such claims only when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The liability is recorded 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and related expense is recorded in the applicable category of nonintere
st expense, depending on the nature of the legal matter, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Significant judgment may 

be required in the determination of both probability of loss and whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our estimates 

are subjective based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses, and consultation with in
-house and outside legal counsel. In many such proceedings, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurre
d or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the matter is close to resolution. As additional informat
ion becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and may revise our estimates.
Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory processes in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our 
estimates may be materially different than the actual outcomes, which could have material effects on our business, financial 

condition, and results of operations. See Note 19, ﬁContingencies,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-

K for further discussion.
Estimates of Fair Value

Fair value is the price that could be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction betwe
en market participants. Certain of our assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Examples of recurri
ng uses of fair value include derivative instruments, AFS and trading securities, certain LHFI and LHFS, certain issuances of 

long term debt and brokered CDs, and MSRs. We also measure certain assets at fair value on a non-recurring basis either 

when such assets are carried at the LOCOM, to evaluate assets for impairment, or for disclosure purposes. Examples of these 

non-recurring uses of fair value include certain LHFS, OREO, goodwill, intangible assets, nonmarketable equity securities, 

certain partnership investments, and long-lived assets. Depending on the nature of the asset or liability, we use various valua
tion techniques and assumptions when estimating fair value.
The objective of fair value is to use market-based inputs or assumptions, when available, to estimate the price that would be 

received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurem
ent 69date. Where observable market prices from transactions for identical assets or liabilities are not available, we identify what 

we believe to be similar assets or liabilities. If observable market prices are unavailable or impracticable to obtain for any 

such similar assets or liabilities, we look to other techniques by obtaining third party quotes or using modeling techniques, 

such as discounted cash flows, while attempting to utilize market observable assumptions to the extent available. Absent 

current market activity in that specific instrument or a similar instrument, the resulting valuation approach may require makin
g a number of significant judgments in the estimation of fair value. Market conditions during the credit crisis led to limited or nonexistent trading in certain of the financial asset classes that we have owned. Although market conditions have improved 

and we have seen the return of liquidity in certain markets, we continue to experience a low level of activity in a number of 
markets and also hold a limited amount of instruments that do not have an active market, which creates additional challenges 

when estimating the fair value of these financial instruments.
Generally, the assets and liabilities most affected by the lack of liquidity or observable market are those required to be clas
sified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. As a result, various processes and controls have been adopted to determine that appropr
iate methodologies, techniques and assumptions are used in the development of fair value estimates, particularly related to those 

instruments that require the use of significant, unobservable inputs. We continue to maintain a cross-functional approach when 

estimating the fair value of these difficult to value financial instruments. This includes input from not only the related line
 of 
business, but also from risk management and finance, to ultimately arrive at a consensus estimate of the instrument's fair valu
e after evaluating all available information pertaining to fair value. This process involves the gathering of multiple sources of
 information, including broker quotes, values provided by pricing services, trading activity in other similar instruments, marke
t indices, and pricing matrices along with employing various modeling techniques, such as discounted cash flow analyses, in 

arriving at the best estimate of fair value. Modeling techniques incorporate our assessments regarding assumptions that market 

participants would use in pricing the asset or the liability, including market-based assumptions, such as interest rates, as we
ll as assumptions about the risks inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of 
an asset, market liquidity, and the risk of nonperformance. In certain cases, our assessments with respect to assumptions that 

market participants would make may be inherently difficult to determine, and the use of different assumptions could result 

in material changes to these fair value measurements. We used significant unobservable inputs to fair value, on a recurring 

basis, for certain trading assets, securities AFS, portfolio loans accounted for at fair value, IRLCs, LHFS, MSRs, and certain 

derivatives. Overall, the financial impact of the level 3 financial instruments did not have a material impact on our liquidity or capital. Our exposure to level 3 financial instruments continues to decline due to paydowns, sales and settlements of these 

instruments, and the fact that we have made minimal purchases. The following table discloses assets and liabilities carried at 

fair value on a recurring basis that have been impacted by level 3 fair value determinations.70Level 3 Assets and LiabilitiesTable 25December 31(Dollars in millions)20132012Trading assets and derivatives 
1,2$72$190Securities AFS953914LHFS38LHFI302379Other intangible assets 31,300899Total level 3 assets$2,630$2,390Total assets$175,335$173,442Total assets measured at fair value30,56232,701Level 3 assets as a percent of total assets1.5%1.4%Level 3 assets as a percent of total assets measured at fair value8.6%7.3%Trading liabilities and derivatives 
1,24ŠOther liabilities2931Total level 3 liabilities$33$31Total liabilities$153,913$152,457Total liabilities measured at fair value3,5303,661Level 3 liabilities as a percent of total liabilitiesŠ%Š%Level 3 liabilities as a percent of total liabilities measured at fair value0.9%0.8%1 In 2013 derivative assets and liabilities previously reported as other assets and liabilities have been reclassified to tradin
g assets and derivatives or trading  
liabilities and derivatives.2 Includes IRLCs.3 MSRs carried at fair value.The following discussion provides further information on fair value accounting by balance sheet category including the 

difficult to value assets and liabilities displayed in the table above. See Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement,ﬂ to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a detailed discussion regarding level 2 and 3 securities and 

valuation methodologies for each class of securities.
Trading and Derivative Assets and Liabilities and Securities AFS

In estimating the fair values for the majority of securities AFS and trading instruments, including residual and certain other 

retained securitization interests, fair values are based on observable market prices of the same or similar instruments. 

Specifically, the majority of trading assets and liabilities are priced by the respective trading desk and the majority of secu
rities AFS are priced by an independent third party pricing service. We have an internal, yet independent, validation function in 

place to evaluate the appropriateness of the marks received from third party pricing services. For trading securities and 

securities AFS in active trading markets, this can be accomplished by comparing the marks against two to three other widely 

used third party pricing services or sources. For less liquid instruments, we evaluate third party pricing to determine the 

reasonableness of the information relative to changes in market data such as any recent trades we executed, market information 

received from outside market participants and analysts, and/or changes in the underlying collateral performance.
We also gather third party broker quotes or use industry-standard or proprietary models to estimate the fair value of these 

instruments particularly when pricing service information or observable market trades are not available. In most cases, the 

current market conditions caused the broker quotes to be indicative and the price indications and broker quotes to be supported
 by very limited to no recent market activity. In those instances, we weighted the third party information according to our 

judgment of it being a reasonable indication of the instrument's fair value.
When fair values are estimated based on models, we consider relevant market indices that correlate to the underlying collateral
, along with assumptions such as liquidity discounts, interest rates, prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severity rates, and 

discount rates. As liquidity returns to certain markets, we have more pricing information from third parties and a reduction 

in the need to use internal pricing models to estimate fair value. Even when third party pricing is available, we continued to 
classify certain assets as level 3 as we believe that this third party pricing relied on significant unobservable assumptions, 
as 71evidenced by a persistently wide bid-ask price range and variability in pricing from the pricing services, particularly for the vintages and exposures we hold.
As certain markets recover, we are able to reduce our exposure to many of our level 3 instruments through sales, maturities, 

or other distributions at prices approximating our previous estimates, thereby corroborating the valuation approaches used. 

Many of our remaining level 3 securities, however, will be held until final distribution or maturity. While it is difficult to 

accurately predict the ultimate cash value of these securities, we believe the amount that would be ultimately realized if the 

securities were held to settlement or maturity will generally be similar to or greater than the current fair value of the secur
ities classified as level 3. This assessment is based on the current performance of the underlying collateral, which is experiencing 

elevated losses but generally not to the degree that correlates to current market values, which reflect downward pressure due 

to liquidity issues and other broader macro-economic conditions. It is reasonably likely that market volatility for certain 

instruments will continue as a result of a variety of external factors. This lack of liquidity has caused us to evaluate the 

performance of the underlying collateral and to use a discount rate commensurate with the rate a market participant would 

use to value the instrument in an orderly transaction, but that also acknowledges illiquidity premiums and required investor 

rates of return that would be demanded under current market conditions. The discount rate considered the capital structure of 

the instrument, market indices, and the relative yields of instruments for which third party pricing information and/or market 

activity was available. In certain instances, the interest rate and credit risk components of the valuation indicated a full re
turn of expected principal and interest; however, the lack of liquidity resulted in wide ranges of discounts in valuing certain leve
l 3 instruments. The illiquidity that continues to persist in certain markets requires discounts of this degree to drive a market
 competitive yield, as well as to account for the anticipated extended tenor. The discount rates selected derived reasonable 

prices when compared to (i) observable transactions, when available, (ii) other securities on a relative basis, (iii) the bid/ask spread of non-binding broker indicative bids, and/or (iv) our professional judgment.
All of the techniques used and information obtained in the valuation process provide a range of estimated values, which were 

evaluated and compared in order to establish an estimated value that, based on management's judgment, represented a 

reasonable estimate of the instrument's fair value. It was not uncommon for the range of value of these instruments to vary 

widely; in such cases, we selected an estimated value that we believed was the best indication of value based on the yield a 

market participant in this current environment would expect. Due to the continued illiquidity and credit risk of level 3 securi
ties, these market values are highly sensitive to assumption changes and market volatility. Improvements may be made to our 

pricing methodologies on an ongoing basis as observable and relevant information becomes available to us. 
Most derivative instruments are level 1 or level 2 instruments, except for the IRLCs and the Visa litigation related derivative
, which are level 3 instruments. See Note 16, ﬁDerivative Financial Instruments,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in 

this Form 10-K for a detailed discussion regarding derivative contracts and valuation.
At December 31, 2013, level 3 trading assets and derivatives and level 3 securities AFS totaled $72 million and $953 million, 

respectively. Our level 3 securities AFS portfolio included FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank stock, as well as certain municipal 

bond securities, some of which are only redeemable with the issuer at par and cannot be traded in the market; as such, no 

significant observable market data for these instruments is available. These nonmarketable securities AFS totaled 

approximately $752 million at December 31, 2013. The remaining level 3 securities, both trading assets and securities AFS, 

are predominantly private ABS and MBS and CDOs, including interests retained from Company-sponsored securitizations 

or purchased from third party securitizations. We also have exposure to bank trust preferred CDOs, student loan ABS, and 

municipal securities due to our purchase of certain ARS as a result of failed auctions. For all level 3 securities, little or n
o market activity exists for either the security or the underlying collateral and therefore, the significant assumptions used to 

value the securities are not market observable.
Level 3 trading assets and derivatives decreased by $118 million, or 62%, during the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily 

due to sales, paydowns, redemptions, and maturities of securities, partially offset by net unrealized mark-to-market gains and 

a small amount of purchases. Level 3 securities AFS increased by $39 million, or 4%, during the year ended December 31, 

2013, due primarily to FHLB of Atlanta stock purchases, partially offset by FHLB of Atlanta stock redemptions and continued 

paydowns and sales of level 3 securities. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $122 million in net gains 

through earnings related to trading and derivative assets and liabilities classified as level 3, primarily due to $98 million i
n IRLC related gains and $24 million in net gains from trading securities. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, we sold a number 

of our remaining ARS positions, including all of the CDO securities in trading assets and the municipal securities in securitie
s AFS, which were valued at $54 million and $20 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013.
72Loans
The fair values of LHFI and LHFS are based on observable current market prices in the secondary loan market in which loans 

trade, as either whole loans or as ABS. When security prices are obtained in the secondary loan market, we will translate these
 prices into whole loan prices by incorporating adjustments for estimated credit enhancement costs, loan servicing fees, and 

various other transformation costs, when material. The fair value of a loan is impacted by the nature of the asset and the mark
et liquidity. Level 3 loans are predominantly mortgage loans that have been deemed not marketable, largely due to borrower 

defaults or the identification of other loan defects. When estimating fair value for these loans, we use a discounted cash flow
 approach based on assumptions that are generally not observable in the current markets, such as prepayment speeds, default 

rates, loss severity rates, and liquidity discounts. Absent comparable current market data, we believe that the fair value deri
ved from these various approaches is a reasonable approximation of the prices that we would receive upon sale of the loans.
Other Intangible Assets and Other Assets

We record all MSRs at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of MSRs is based on discounted cash flow analyses and 

can be highly variable quarter to quarter as market conditions and projected interest rates change. We provide disclosure of 

the key economic assumptions used to measure MSRs and residual interests and a sensitivity analysis to adverse changes to 
these assumptions in Note 9, ﬁGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 

10-K. This sensitivity analysis does not take into account hedging activities discussed in the ﬁOther Market Riskﬂ section of 

this MD&A.
The fair values of OREO and other repossessed assets are typically determined based on recent appraisals by third parties 

and other market information. Our OREO properties are concentrated in Georgia, Florida, and North Carolina. Further 

deterioration in property values in those states or changes to our disposition strategies could cause our estimates of OREO 

values to decline which would result in further write-downs. Estimates of fair value are also required when performing an 

impairment analysis of goodwill, intangible assets, and long-lived assets. For long-lived assets, including intangible assets 

subject to amortization, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds 

its fair value. In determining the fair value, management uses models which require assumptions about growth rates, the life 

of the asset, and/or the market value of the assets. We test long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in 

circumstances indicate that our carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Other Liabilities

The fair value methodology and assumptions related to our IRLCs are described in Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and 

Measurement,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.
Goodwill
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, our reporting units with goodwill balances were Consumer Banking and Private Wealth 

Management, Wholesale Banking and Ridgeworth Capital Management. See Note 20, "Business Segment Reporting," to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a further discussion of our reportable segments and changes that 

occurred during 2013.
We review the goodwill of each reporting unit for impairment on an annual basis as of September 30, or more often, if events 

or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is below the carrying value
 of 
its equity. The goodwill impairment analysis estimates the fair value of equity using discounted cash flow analyses which 

require assumptions, as well as guideline company and guideline transaction information, where available. The inputs and 

assumptions specific to each reporting unit are incorporated in the valuations, including projections of future cash flows, 

discount rates, the fair value of tangible assets and intangible assets and liabilities, and applicable valuation multiples based on the guideline information. We assess the reasonableness of the estimated fair value of the reporting units by giving 

consideration to our market capitalization over a reasonable period of time; however, supplemental information is applied 

based on observable multiples from guideline companies, adjusted if necessary to reflect our specific factors, as well as curre
nt market conditions. When the reporting unit is not a legal entity with a stand-alone equity balance, the carrying value of a 

reporting unit is determined by allocating the total equity of the Company to each of its reporting units based on an equal 

weighting of an approach based on regulatory risk-based capital and an approach based on tangible assets relative to tangible 

equity. A portion of the Company™s equity is assigned to the Corporate Other operating segment, which is attributed to the 

corporate assets and liabilities assigned to that segment that do not relate to the operations of any reporting unit. If the eq
uity in excess of regulatory capital requirements assigned to the Corporate Other operating segment was assigned to either the 

Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management or Wholesale Banking reporting unit, the fair value for each of those 

reporting units would have remained in excess of its respective carrying value. Based on our annual impairment analysis of 
73goodwill as of September 30, 2013, we determined for the following reporting units that the fair value is in excess of the 

respective reporting unit's carrying value by the following percentages:Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management 
56%Wholesale Banking14%RidgeWorth Capital Management 
141%We monitored events and circumstances during the fourth quarter of 2013 for all reporting units, of which no events gave rise 

to an additional impairment test.
Valuation Techniques

In determining the fair value of our reporting units, we use discounted cash flow analyses, which require assumptions about 

short and long-term net cash flow, growth rates for each reporting unit, as well as discount rates. Additionally, we consider 

guideline company and guideline transaction information, where available, to aid in the valuation of certain reporting units.  
In the case of Ridgeworth, in December 2013 we announced an agreement to sell this reporting unit, which we expect to 

complete in 2014; therefore the valuation of Ridgeworth was primarily based on the agreed upon sales price.
Growth Assumptions

Multi-year financial forecasts are developed for each reporting unit by considering several key business drivers such as new 

business initiatives, client service and retention standards, market share changes, anticipated loan and deposit growth, forwar
d interest rates, historical performance, and industry and economic trends, among other considerations. The long-term growth 

rate used in determining the terminal value of each reporting unit was estimated at 3.4% as of September 30, 2013 and 4% 

as of September 30, 2012, based on management's assessment of the minimum expected terminal growth rate of each reporting 

unit, as well as broader economic considerations such as gross domestic product and inflation.
Discount Rate Assumptions

Discount rates are estimated based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model, which considers the risk-free interest rate, market risk
 premium, beta, and unsystematic risk and size premium adjustments specific to a particular reporting unit. The discount rates 

are also calibrated based on the assessment of the risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. In the ann
ual analysis as of September 30, 2013, the discount rates for Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management and Wholesale 

Banking were approximately 13%. In the annual analysis as of September 30, 2012, the discount rates ranged from 12% to 

20%.
Estimated Fair Value and Sensitivities

The estimated fair value of each reporting unit is derived from the valuation techniques described above. The estimated fair 

value of each reporting unit is analyzed in relation to numerous market and historical factors, including current economic and 

market conditions, company-specific growth opportunities, and guideline company and guideline transaction information. 
Economic and market conditions can vary significantly which may cause increased volatility in a company's stock price, 

resulting in a temporary decline in market capitalization. In those circumstances, current market capitalization may not be an 

accurate indication of a market participant's estimate of entity-specific value measured over a reasonable period of time. As 

a result, the use of market capitalization is a less relevant measure to assess the reasonableness of the aggregate value of th
e reporting units. Therefore, we supplement the market capitalization information with other observable market information 

that provides benchmark valuation multiples from transactions over a reasonable period.
The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is highly sensitive to changes in these estimates and assumptions; therefore, in
 some instances, changes in these assumptions could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carryi
ng value. We perform sensitivity analyses around these assumptions in order to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions and 

the resulting estimated fair values. Ultimately, future potential changes in these assumptions may impact the estimated fair 

value of a reporting unit and cause the fair value of the reporting unit to be below its carrying value. Additionally, a report
ing unit's carrying value of equity could change based on market conditions and the risk profile of those reporting units.74If there is a situation where the carrying value of equity exceeds the estimated fair value, an additional goodwill impairment 

evaluation is performed that involves calculating the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill, which is determined 

in the same manner as goodwill is recognized in a business combination.
The value of the implied goodwill is highly sensitive to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit's net assets. The fair 

value of the reporting unit's net assets is estimated using a variety of valuation techniques including the following:Ł recent data observed in the market, including similar assets,

Ł cash flow modeling based on projected cash flows and market discount rates,

Ł market indices,

Ł estimated net realizable value of the underlying collateral, and

Ł price indications from independent third parties.
Observable market information is utilized to the extent available and relevant. The estimated fair values reflect management's 

assumptions regarding how a market participant would value the net assets and includes appropriate credit, liquidity, and 

market risk premiums that are indicative of the current environment.
If the implied fair value of the goodwill for the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the goodwill for the respective 

reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied goodwill, 
an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. Changes in the estimated fair value of the individual assets
 and liabilities may result in a different amount of implied goodwill, and ultimately, the amount of goodwill impairment, if 

any. Sensitivity analysis is performed to assess the potential ranges of implied goodwill.

Income Taxes

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities where we conduct business. We estimate income 

tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to these various tax jurisdictions. The estimated income tax expense or 

benefit is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to or to be received from tax jurisdictions either currently or in the 

future and are reported in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In estimating accrued taxes, we assess the 

appropriate tax treatment of transactions and filing positions after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent, and
 other pertinent information. The income tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the 

relevant government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the tax accruals and in evaluating our 

tax positions, including evaluating uncertain tax positions. Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due 

to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status of examinations by the tax authorities, and newly enacted stat
utory, 
judicial, and regulatory guidance that could impact the relative merits and risks of tax positions. These changes, when they 

occur, impact tax expense and can materially affect our operating results. We review our tax positions quarterly and make 

adjustments to accrued taxes as new information becomes available.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future years. Such assets arise due 

to temporary differences between the financial reporting and the tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from NOL and 

tax credit carryforwards. We regularly evaluate the realizability of DTAs. A valuation allowance is recognized for a DTA if, 

based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the DTA will not be realized.
 In determining whether a valuation allowance is necessary, we consider the level of taxable income in prior years to the extent
 that carrybacks are permitted under current tax laws, as well as estimates of future pre-tax and taxable income and tax plannin
g strategies that would, if necessary, be implemented. We currently maintain a valuation allowance for certain state carryforward
s and certain other state DTAs. Since we expect to realize our remaining federal and state DTAs, no valuation allowance is 

deemed necessary against these DTAs at December 31, 2013. For additional information, refer to Note 14, ﬁIncome Taxes,ﬂ 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.
Pension Accounting

Several variables affect the annual cost for our retirement programs. The main variables are: (1) size and characteristics of 

the eligible population, (2) discount rate, (3) expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, (4) recognition of actual asset returns, (5) other actuarial assumptions, and (6) healthcare cost for post-retirement benefits. Below is a brief description of
 each variable and the effect it has on our pension costs and post-retirement costs. See Note 15, ﬁEmployee Benefit Plans,ﬂ to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information.75Size and Characteristics of the Employee Population
Pension cost is directly related to the number of employees eligible to participate in the plan and other factors including 

historical compensation, age, years of employment, and benefit terms. A curtailment of all pension benefit accruals was 

effective December 31, 2011. Prior to the pension curtailment, most participants who had 20 or more years of service as of 

December 31, 2007 received benefits based on a traditional pension formula with benefits linked to their final average pay 

and years of service. Most other participants received a traditional pension for periods through December 31, 2007. Beginning 

in 2008, a cash balance benefit based on annual compensation and interest credits was earned. Continued changes in the size 

and characteristics of the workforce could result in a partial settlement of the pension plan. If lump sum payments in a year 

exceed the total of interest cost and service cost, then settlement accounting requires immediate recognition through earnings 

of any net actuarial gain or loss recorded in AOCI based on the fair value of plan assets and plan obligations prior to settlem
ent, and recognition of any settlement related costs. We estimate the financial impact of a partial settlement in 2014 would be 

recognition of approximately $40 million in additional benefit cost; however, additional lump sum payments could cause the 

amount of benefit cost recognized to be higher.

Discount Rate
The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit obligations. The discount rate for each plan is 

determined by matching the expected cash flows of each plan to a yield curve based on long-term, high quality fixed income 

debt instruments available as of the measurement date. The discount rate for each plan is reset annually or upon occurrence 

of an event that triggers a measurement to reflect current market conditions. If we were to assume a 0.25% increase/decrease 

in the discount rate for all retirement and other postretirement plans and keep all other assumptions constant, the benefit cos
t would change by less than $1 million.
Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets

Expected returns on plan assets are computed using long-term rate of return assumptions which are selected after considering 

plan investments, historical returns, and potential future returns. Our 2013 pension costs reflect an assumed long-term rate 

of return on plan assets of 7%.
Any differences between expected and actual returns are included in the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss amount. We 

amortize gains/losses in pension expense when the total unamortized amount exceeds 10% of plan assets or the projected 

benefit obligations, whichever is greater. All pension gains or losses are being amortized over participants' average expected 

future lifetime, which is approximately 34 years. See Note 15, ﬁEmployee Benefit Plans,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial 

Statements in this Form 10-K for details on changes in the pension benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
If we were to assume a 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected long-term rate of return for the retirement and other 

postretirement plans, holding all other actuarial assumptions constant, the benefit cost would decrease/increase by 

approximately $7 million.
Recognition of Actual Asset Returns

Accounting guidance allows for the use of an asset value that smooths investment gains and losses over a period up to five 

years. However, we have elected to use a preferable method in determining pension cost. This method uses the actual market 

value of the plan assets. Therefore, we will experience more variability in the annual pension cost, as the asset values will b
e more volatile than companies who elected to ﬁsmoothﬂ their investment experience.
Other Actuarial Assumptions

To estimate the projected benefit obligation, actuarial assumptions are required about factors such as mortality rate, retireme
nt rate, and disability rate. These factors do not tend to change significantly over time, so the range of assumptions, and their 

impact on pension cost, is generally limited. We annually review the assumptions used based on historical and expected future 

experience. We updated the mortality assumption in 2013 to reflect interim improvement factors published by the Society of 

Actuaries, which are subject to a subsequent update in 2014. Our adoption of updated mortality rates in 2013 increased our 

projected benefit obligation by approximately 4%.
Postretirement Healthcare Cost

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates also have an impact on the amounts reported for the other postretirement benefit plans. 
Due to changing medical inflation, it is important to understand the effect of a one percent change in assumed healthcare cost 

trend rates. If we were to assume a one percent increase in healthcare cost trend rates, the effect would be an increase of les
s than $1 million on both the other postretirement benefit obligation and total interest and service cost at December 31, 2013. 76If we were to assume a one percent decrease in healthcare cost trend rates, the effect would be a decline of less than $1 milli
on on both the other postretirement benefit obligation and total interest and service cost at December 31, 2013.
To estimate the projected Postretirement Healthcare Benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013, we projected forward the 

benefit obligations from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013, adjusting for benefit payments, expected growth in the benefit 

obligations, changes in key assumptions and plan provisions, and any significant changes in the plan demographics that 

occurred during the year, including (where appropriate) subsidized early retirements, changes in per capita claims cost, 

Medicare Part D subsidy, and retiree contributions.  

During the fourth quarter of 2013, we communicated a change in our retiree medical plan. Effective April 1, 2014, retirees 

age 65 and older will enroll in individual health plans that work with Medicare and will no longer participate in a SunTrust-

sponsored group health plan. In addition, we will fund a tax-advantaged Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) to assist 

some retirees with medical expenses.
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
In the normal course of business, we are exposed to various risks. We have established an enterprise risk governance framework 

to manage these risks and support key business objectives. Underlying this framework are limits, policies, metrics, processes, 

and procedures designed to effectively identify, monitor, and manage risk.

The Board is responsible for oversight of enterprise risk governance. The BRC assists the Board in executing this responsibilit
y. 
Administration of the framework and governance process is the responsibility of the CRO, who executes this responsibility 

through the CRM organization. The CRO reports to the CEO, and provides overall vision, direction, and leadership regarding 

our enterprise risk management framework. Additionally, the CRO provides regular risk assessments to Executive 

Management, the BRC, other Board committees (as appropriate) and the full Board, and provides other information to 

Executive Management and the Board, as requested.
Our risk governance structure and processes are founded upon a three line of defense framework, each of which is critical to 

ensuring that risk and reward in all activities are properly identified, assessed, and managed. The three line of defense frame
work requires effective teamwork combined with individual accountability within defined roles. The first line of defense is comprise
d of all teammates within our business segments, as well as those within certain functional units undertaking execution activitie
s. The first line of defense owns and is accountable for business strategy, performance, management, and controls within their 

respective units and for the identification, management, and reporting of existing and emerging risks. The second line of 

defense is comprised of certain functions, including CRM; these units are responsible for independent governance and oversight 

of the first line of defense relative to specific risks. Responsibilities include developing appropriate risk management 

frameworks/programs that facilitate first line of defense identification, reporting, assessment, control, mitigation, and 

communication of the risks. It also monitors first line of defense execution of these responsibilities. Second line of defense 

frameworks/programs conform to applicable laws, rules, regulations, regulatory guidance, decrees and orders, and stated 

corporate business objectives and risk appetite, tolerances and limits. The third line of defense is comprised of our assurance
 functions, i.e., Audit Services and Risk Review, which independently test, verify, and evaluate management controls and 

provide risk-based advice and counsel to management to help develop and maintain a risk management culture that supports 

safety, soundness and business objectives. In addition, CRM™s MRMG also fulfills some third line of defense responsibilities 

pertaining to model validation.
Enterprise risk governance is supported by a number of risk-related, senior management committees. These governance 

committees are responsible for ensuring effective risk measurement and management within their respective areas of authority, 

and include the CRC, ALCO, CC, and PMC. The CRC is chaired by the CRO and supports the CRO in measuring and managing 

our aggregate risk profile. ALCO is chaired by the CFO, and provides management and oversight of market, liquidity, and 

balance sheet-related risks, and has the responsibility to optimize those risks in relation to the profitability of the underly
ing businesses. The CC is also chaired by the CFO and provides management and oversight of our capital actions and our Enterprise 

Stress Analytics, e.g., our CCAR/DFAST programs. PMC is chaired by the Wholesale Banking Executive and provides 

oversight of balance sheet allocations to ensure that new asset originations and the purchase of assets available in the second
ary market meet our risk and business objectives. PMC also oversees progress towards long-term balance sheet objectives. The 

CEO, CFO, and the CRO are members of each governance committee to promote consistency and communication. 

Additionally, other executive and senior officers of the Company are members of these committees based upon their 

responsibilities and subject matter expertise.  77The CRO and, by extension, CRM, establishes sound corporate risk frameworks and processes that focus on identifying, 

measuring, analyzing, managing, and reporting the risks that we face. At its core, CRM™s objective is to deliver sophisticated 

risk management capabilities throughout the organization that:
Ł Identify, measure, analyze, manage, and report risk at the transaction, portfolio, and enterprise levels;

Ł Optimize decision making;

Ł Promote sound processes and regulatory compliance;

Ł Maximize shareholder value; and

Ł Support our Purpose of Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being and conform to our supporting guiding principles 
of Client First, One Team, Executional Excellence, and Profitable Growth.
To achieve this objective, CRM continually refines our risk governance and management limits, policies, processes, and 

procedures to reflect changes in our operating environment and/or corporate goals and strategies. In terms of underwriting, 

CRM Credit Risk seeks to mitigate risk through analysis of such things as a borrower's credit history; pertinent financial 

information, e.g., financial statements and tax returns, cash flow, and liquidity; and collateral value. Additionally, our loan
 products and underwriting elements are continuously reviewed and refined. Examples include: client eligibility requirements, 

documentation requirements, loan types, collateral types, LTV ratios, and minimum credit scores. Prior reviews have resulted 

in changes such as enhanced documentation standards, maximum LTV ratios, and changes in production channels, which 

contributed to material reductions in higher-risk exposures, such as higher-risk mortgage, home equity, and commercial 

construction loans, as well as a decline in early stage delinquencies and NPLs. 
In practice, CRM measures and oversees risk management along several primary risk dimensions: credit, market, liquidity, 

operational, and compliance. Other risks, such as legal, strategic, and reputational risk, which can arise from any corporate 

activity, are also monitored by CRM and other risk stewards such as Technology Risk and Compliance, Finance Risk 

Management, Human Resources, Third-Party Risk Management, and others. 

Credit risk programs/processes are overseen by the Chief Wholesale Credit Officer and the Chief Retail Credit Officer; market 

risk and liquidity programs/processes are overseen by the Corporate Market Risk Officer; operational risk programs/processes, 

including the Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering, Resolution Planning, and Third-Party Risk programs, are directly 

overseen by the Corporate Operational Risk Officer; other risk steward programs are coordinated through the Operational 

Risk Program; Model Risk Management program/processes and model validation are overseen by the Corporate Model Risk 

Management Officer; Compliance programs are overseen by the Corporate Compliance Officer; and regulatory relations 

activities are overseen by the Corporate Regulatory Liaison Officer. Other activities overseen by CRM include risk information 

and reporting; risk technology/consulting investments; risk analytics (including the ALLL); Risk Review, an assurance 

function; and other risk administration functions such as Executive and BRC risk committee reporting.
Credit Risk Management
Credit risk refers to the potential for economic loss arising from the failure of clients to meet their contractual agreements 
on all credit instruments, including on-balance sheet exposures from loans and leases, investment securities, contingent exposures
 from unfunded commitments, letters of credit, credit derivatives, and counterparty risk under derivative products. As credit 

risk is an essential component of many of the products and services we provide to our clients, the ability to accurately measur
e and manage credit risk is integral to maintain the long-run profitability and capital adequacy of our business. We commit to 

maintain and enhance a comprehensive credit system to meet business requirements and comply with evolving regulatory 

standards. 
CRM establishes and oversees the adherence to the credit risk management governance frameworks and policies, independently 

measures, analyzes, and reports on portfolio and risk trends, and actively participates in the formulation of our credit strate
gies. Credit risk officers and supporting teammates within our lines of business are direct participants in the origination, underwri
ting, and ongoing management of credit. They work to promote an appropriate balance between our risk management and business 

objectives through adherence to established policies, procedures, and standards. Risk Review, one of our independent assurance 

functions, regularly assesses and reports on business unit and enterprise asset quality and the integrity of our credit 

processes. Additionally, total borrower exposure limits and concentration risk are established and monitored. Credit risk may 

be mitigated through purchase of credit loss protection via third party insurance and use of credit derivatives such as CDS.
Borrower/counterparty (obligor) risk and facility risk is evaluated using our risk rating methodology, which is utilized in all
 lines of businesses. We use various risk models to estimate both expected and unexpected loss, which incorporates both 

internal and external default and loss experience. To the extent possible, we collect and use internal data to ensure the valid
ity, 
reliability, and accuracy of our risk models used in default, severity, and loss estimation.
78Operational Risk Management
We face ongoing and emerging risks and regulations related to the activities that surround the delivery of banking and financia
l products. Coupled with external influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters, cyber attacks and other
 security risks, country risk, and legal risk, the potential for operational and reputational loss remains elevated.
We believe that effective management of operational risk, defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed inter
nal processes, people and systems, or from external events, plays a major role in both the level and the stability of our profitabi
lity. 
Our Operational Risk Management function oversees an enterprise-wide framework intended to identify, assess, control, 

monitor, and report on operational risks Company-wide. These processes support our goals to minimize future operational 

losses and strengthen our performance by maintaining sufficient capital to absorb operational losses that are incurred. 

Operational Risk Management is overseen by our CORO, who reports directly to the CRO. The operational risk governance 

structure includes an operational risk manager and support staff within each business segment and corporate function. These 

risk managers are responsible for execution of risk management within their areas in compliance with CRM's policies and 

procedures.
Market Risk Management
Market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity
 prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. Interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and MVE 

to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk and mainly arises from the structure of our balance sheet, 
which includes all loans. Variable rate loans, prior to any hedging related actions, are approximately 56% of total loans and 

after giving consideration to hedging related actions, are approximately 43% of total loans. We are also exposed to market 

risk in our trading instruments carried at fair value. ALCO meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions
 and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk.
Market Risk from Non-Trading Activities

The primary goal of interest rate risk management is to control exposure to interest rate risk, within policy limits approved 

by the Board. These limits and guidelines reflect our tolerance for interest rate risk over both short-term and long-term horiz
ons. No limit breaches occurred during 2013.
The major sources of our non-trading interest rate risk are timing differences in the maturity and repricing characteristics of
 assets and liabilities, changes in the shape of the yield curve, and the potential exercise of explicit or embedded options. We
 measure these risks and their impact by identifying and quantifying exposures through the use of sophisticated simulation 

and valuation models, which, as described in additional detail below, are employed by management to understand net interest 

income at risk and MVE at risk. These measures show that our interest rate risk profile is slightly asset sensitive at December
 31, 2013. 
MVE and net interest income sensitivity are complementary interest rate risk metrics and should be viewed together. Net 

interest income sensitivity captures asset and liability repricing mismatches for the first year inclusive of forecast balance 

sheet changes and is considered a shorter term measure, while MVE sensitivity captures mismatches within the period end 

balance sheets through the financial instruments' respective maturities and is considered a longer term measure. 
A positive net interest income sensitivity in a rising rate environment indicates that over the forecast horizon of one year, 

asset based income will increase more quickly than liability based expense due to balance sheet composition. A negative MVE 

sensitivity in a rising rate environment indicates that the value of financial assets will decrease more than the value of fina
ncial liabilities. 
One of the primary methods that we use to quantify and manage interest rate risk is simulation analysis, which we use to 

model net interest income from assets, liabilities, and derivative positions under various interest rate scenarios and balance 

sheet structures. This analysis measures the sensitivity of net interest income over a two year time horizon, which differs fro
m the interest rate sensitivities in Table 26, which are prescribed to be over a one year time horizon. Key assumptions in the 

simulation analysis (and in the valuation analysis discussed below) relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, the 

changes in product balances, and the behavior of loan and deposit clients in different rate environments. This analysis 

incorporates several assumptions, the most material of which relate to the repricing characteristics and balance fluctuations 

of deposits with indeterminate or non-contractual maturities.
As the future path of interest rates cannot be known, we use simulation analysis to project net interest income under various 

scenarios including implied forward and deliberately extreme and perhaps unlikely scenarios. The analyses may include rapid 
79and gradual ramping of interest rates, rate shocks, basis risk analysis, and yield curve twists. Specific strategies are also 

analyzed to determine their impact on net interest income levels and sensitivities.
The sensitivity analysis included below is measured as a percentage change in net interest income due to instantaneous moves 

in benchmark interest rates. Estimated changes set forth below are dependent upon material assumptions such as those 

previously discussed.   Table 26Estimated % Change in Net Interest Income
Over 12 Months
1(Basis points)December 31, 2013December 31, 2012Rate Change
+2001.8%4.8%+1001.0%2.5% -25(0.8)%(0.8)%1Estimated % change of net interest income is reflected on a non-FTE basis.The decrease in asset sensitivity and net interest income compared to December 31, 2012, is predominantly due to slower 

assumed prepayments on mortgage-related products due to higher long-term rates and balance sheet mix changes.  
We also perform valuation analysis, which we use for discerning levels of risk present in the balance sheet and derivative 

positions that might not be taken into account in the net interest income simulation analysis. Whereas net interest income 

simulation highlights exposures over a relatively short time horizon, valuation analysis incorporates all cash flows over the 

estimated remaining life of all balance sheet and derivative positions. The valuation of the balance sheet, at a point in time,
 is defined as the discounted present value of asset cash flows and derivative cash flows minus the discounted present value 

of liability cash flows, the net of which is referred to as MVE. The sensitivity of MVE to changes in the level of interest rat
es is a measure of the longer-term repricing risk and options risk embedded in the balance sheet. Similar to the net interest inco
me simulation, MVE uses instantaneous changes in rates. However, MVE values only the current balance sheet and does not 

incorporate the growth assumptions that are used in the net interest income simulation model. As with the net interest income 

simulation model, assumptions about the timing and variability of balance sheet cash flows are critical in the MVE analysis. 

Particularly important are the assumptions driving prepayments and the expected changes in balances and pricing of the 

indeterminate deposit portfolios. At December 31, 2013, the MVE profile indicates a decline in net balance sheet value due 

to instantaneous upward changes in rates. MVE sensitivity is reported in both upward and downward rate shocks. Market Value of Equity SensitivityTable 27

 Estimated % Change in MVE(Basis points)December 31, 2013December 31, 2012Rate Change
+200(8.0)%(2.4)%+100(3.8)%(0.1)% -250.8%(0.3)%The increase in MVE sensitivity from December 31, 2012 is primarily due to an increase in asset durations due to higher 

long-term interest rates. While an instantaneous and severe shift in interest rates was used in this analysis to provide an est
imate of exposure under an extremely adverse scenario, we believe that a gradual shift in interest rates would have a much more 

modest impact. Since MVE measures the discounted present value of cash flows over the estimated lives of instruments, the 

change in MVE does not directly correlate to the degree that earnings would be impacted over a shorter time horizon (i.e., 

the current year). Further, MVE does not take into account factors such as future balance sheet growth, changes in product 

mix, changes in yield curve relationships, and changing product spreads that could mitigate the adverse impact of changes in 

interest rates. The net interest income simulation and valuation analyses do not include actions that management may undertake 

to manage this risk in response to anticipated changes in interest rates.80Market Risk from Trading Activities

Under established policies and procedures, we manage market risk associated with trading activities using a VAR approach 

that takes into account exposures resulting from interest rate risk, equity risk, foreign exchange risk, credit spread risk, an
d commodity risk. For trading portfolios, VAR measures the estimated maximum loss from a trading position, given a specified 

confidence level and time horizon. VAR results are monitored daily for each trading portfolio against established limits. For 

risk management purposes, our VAR calculation measures the potential trading losses using a one-day holding period at a 

one-tail, 99% confidence level. This means that, on average, trading losses are expected to exceed VAR one out of 100 trading 

days or two to three times per year. While VAR can be a useful risk management tool, it does have inherent limitations includin
g the assumption that past market behavior is indicative of future market performance. As such, VAR is only one of several 

tools used to manage trading risk. Other tools used to actively manage trading risk include scenario analysis, stress testing, 

profit and loss attribution, and stop loss limits. 
In addition to VAR, in accordance with the new Market Risk Rule, which was effective January 1, 2013, we also calculate 

Stressed VAR, which is used as a component of the total market risk-based capital charge. We calculate the Stressed VAR 

risk measure using a ten-day holding period at a one-tail, 99% confidence level and employ a historical simulation approach 

based on a continuous twelve-month historical window that reflects a period of significant financial stress to our portfolio.
The following table presents VAR and Stressed VAR for the year ended December 31, as well as VAR by Risk Factor at 

December 31, 2013:Value at Risk ProfileTable 28(Dollars in millions)20132012VAR (1-day holding period)Ending$3$5High86Low24Average45Stressed VAR (10-day holding period) 
1Ending$29N/AHigh92N/ALow11N/AAverage27N/A(Dollars in millions)December 31, 2013December 31, 2012VAR by Risk Factor (1-day holding period) 
1Commodity price risk$ŠN/AEquity price risk2N/AForeign exchange riskŠN/AInterest rate risk2N/ACredit spread risk2N/AVAR (1-day diversified) total3
N/A1 "N/A" - The calculation of Stressed VAR and VAR by Risk Factor under the new Market Risk Rule was not applicable in prior perio
ds.The trading portfolio, measured in terms of VAR, is predominantly comprised of four material sub-portfolios of covered 

positions: Equity Derivatives, Fixed Income Securities, Interest Rate Derivatives, and Credit Trading. While there were no 

material changes in composition of the trading portfolio during 2013, risk reducing activities, primarily in our equity derivat
ives and fixed income business during the latter half of the year, resulted in lower VAR at December 31, 2013, compared to 

December 31, 2012. The trading portfolio did not contain any correlation trading positions or on- or off-balance sheet 

securitization positions during 2013.
Effective January 1, 2013, a change to our VAR methodology was implemented and we began using historical based simulation 

instead of the previously used Monte Carlo simulation. At the time of methodology change implementation, our VAR calculated 
81usingtheMonteCarlosimulationyieldedresultsthatweresimilartothehistoricalsimulationresults.Themethodologychange

wasprimarilytoensureourinternalmodelingapproachforVARwasonthesamebasisasthatforStressedVAR,whichisa

requirementundertheMarketRiskRule.

InaccordancewiththeMarketRiskRule,weevaluatetheaccuracyofourVARmodelthroughdailybacktestingbycomparing

dailytradinggainsandlosses(excludingfees,commissions,reserves,netinterestincome,andintradaytrading)withthe

correspondingdailyVAR-basedmeasures.AsillustratedbelowfortheyearendedDecember31,2013,therewerenoinstances

wheretradinglossesexceededfirmwideVAR.
Wehavevaluationpolicies,procedures,andmethodologiesforallcoveredpositions.Additionally,reportingoftrading

positionsisinaccordancewithU.S.GAAPandissubjecttoindependentpriceverification.SeeNote16,"DerivativeFinancial

Instruments"andNote18,"FairValueElectionandMeasurement"totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsinthisForm10-

Kandthe"CriticalAccountingPolicies"sectionofthisMD&A.

Modelriskmanagement:
Ourmodelriskmanagementapproachforvalidatingandevaluatingtheaccuracyofinternaland
vendedmodelsandassociatedprocessesincludesdevelopmentalandimplementationtestingandon-goingmonitoringand

maintenanceperformedbythevariousmodelowners.OurMRMGregularlyperformsindependentmodelvalidationsforthe

VARandstressedVARmodels.Thevalidationsincludeevaluationofallmodel-ownerauthoreddocumentationandmodel-

ownerdevelopedmonitoringandmaintenanceplansandreports.Inaddition,theMRMGperformsitsowntesting.Dueto

ongoingdevelopmentsinfinancialmarkets,evolutioninmodelingapproaches,andforpurposesofmodelenhancement,we

assessallVARmodelsregularlythroughthemonitoringandmaintenanceprocess.

Stresstesting:
Weuseacomprehensiverangeofstresstestingtechniquestohelpmonitorrisksacrosstradingdesksandto
augmentstandarddailyVARreporting.Thestresstestingframeworkisdesignedtoquantifytheimpactofrareandextreme

historicalbutplausiblestressscenariosthatcouldleadtolargeunexpectedlosses.Inadditiontoperformingfirmwidestress

testingofouraggregatetradingportfolio,additionaltypesofsecondarystresstestsincludinghistoricalrepeatsandsimulations

usinghypotheticalriskfactorshocksarealsoperformed.Acrossourcomprehensivestresstestingframework,alltrading

positionsacrosseachapplicablemarketriskcategory(interestraterisk,equityrisk,foreignexchangerisk,spreadrisk,and

commodityrisk)areincluded.Wereviewstresstestingscenariosonanongoingbasisandmakeupdatesasnecessarytoensure

thatbothcurrentandpotentialemergingrisksareappropriatelycaptured.

Tradingportfoliocapitaladequacy:
Weassesscapitaladequacyonaregularbasis,basedonestimatesofourriskprofileand
capitalpositionsunderbaselineandstressedscenarios.Scenariosconsidermaterialrisks,includingcreditrisk,marketrisk,

andoperationalrisk.Ourassessmentofcapitaladequacyarisingfrommarketriskalsoincludesareviewofriskarisingfrom

materialportfoliosofcoveredpositions.SeeﬁCapitalResourcesﬂinthisMD&Aforadditionaldiscussionofcapitaladequacy.
82Liquidity Risk Management
Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable, at a reasonable cost, to meet financial obligations as they come due. We mitigate 

this risk by structuring our balance sheet prudently and by maintaining diverse borrowing resources to fund projected and 

potential cash needs. For example, we structure our balance sheet so that we fund less liquid assets, such as loans, with stabl
e funding sources, such as retail and wholesale deposits, long-term debt, and capital. We primarily monitor and manage liquidity 

risk at the Parent Company and Bank levels as the non-bank subsidiaries are relatively small and these subsidiaries ultimately 

rely upon the Parent Company as a source of liquidity in adverse environments.
The Bank™s primary liquid assets consist of excess reserves and free and liquid securities (unencumbered, high-quality, liquid 

assets) in its investment portfolio. The Bank manages its investment portfolio primarily as a store of liquidity, maintaining 

the majority of its securities in liquid and high-grade asset classes such as agency MBS, agency debt, and U.S. Treasury 

securities. At December 31, 2013, the Bank™s AFS investment portfolio contained $10.0 billion of unencumbered and liquid 

securities at book value, of which approximately 94% consisted of agency MBS, agency debt, and U.S. Treasury securities.

We manage the Parent Company to maintain most of its liquid assets in cash and securities that it could quickly convert to 

cash. Unlike the Bank, it is not typical for the Parent Company to maintain a material investment portfolio of publicly traded 

securities. We manage the Parent Company cash balance to provide sufficient liquidity to fund all forecasted obligations 

(primarily debt and capital service) for an extended period of months in accordance with our risk limits.
We assess liquidity needs that may occur in both the normal course of business and times of unusual adverse events, considering
 both on and off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments that may impact liquidity in certain business environments. 

We have contingency funding scenarios and plans that assess liquidity needs that may arise from certain stress events such 

as credit rating downgrades, severe economic recessions, and financial market disruptions. Our contingency plans also provide 

for continuous monitoring of net borrowed funds dependence and available sources of contingency liquidity. These sources 

of contingency liquidity include available cash reserves; the ability to sell, pledge, or borrow against unencumbered securitie
s in the Bank™s investment portfolio; the capacity to borrow from the FHLB system; and the capacity to borrow at the Federal 

Reserve Discount Window. The following table presents period end and average balances from these four sources as of and 

for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. We believe these contingency liquidity sources exceed any contingent 

liquidity needs measured in our contingency funding scenarios.Contingency Liquidity SourcesTable 29

 December 31, 2013December 31, 2012(Dollars in billions)As ofAverage for theYear Ended ¹ As ofAverage for theYear Ended ¹ Excess reserves$1.3$1.6
$3.4$2.6
Free and liquid investment portfolio securities10.011.5
9.812.8
FHLB borrowing capacity12.313.1
16.012.1
Discount Window borrowing capacity20.819.5
18.017.2
Total$44.4$45.7
$47.2$44.7
1Average based upon month-end data, except excess reserves, which is based upon a daily average.
Uses of Funds. 
 Our primary uses of funds include the extension of loans and credit, the purchase of investment securities, 

working capital, and debt and capital service. The Bank and the Parent Company borrow in the money markets using instruments 

such as Fed funds, Eurodollars, and CP. At December 31, 2013, the Parent Company had no CP outstanding and the Bank 

retained a material cash position in its Federal Reserve account. The Parent Company also retains a material cash position, 

in accordance with our policies and risk limits, discussed in greater detail below.
83Contingent uses of funds may arise from a variety of adverse events such as financial market disruptions or credit rating 

downgrades. Factors that affect our credit ratings include, but are not limited to, the credit risk profile of our assets, the 

adequacy of our ALLL, the level and stability of our earnings, the liquidity profile of both the Bank and the Parent Company, 

the economic environment, and the adequacy of our capital base. At December 31, 2013, both S&P and Fitch maintained a 

"Positive" outlook on our credit ratings based on our improving overall risk profile and asset quality, solid liquidity profile
, and sound capital position. Moody™s maintained a ﬁStableﬂ outlook on our credit ratings at December 31, 2013. Future credit 

rating downgrades are possible, although not currently anticipated given the "Positive" and ﬁStableﬂ credit rating outlooks. Debt Credit Ratings and OutlookTable 30
December 31, 2013 Moody™s  S&P  FitchSunTrust Banks, Inc.    
Short-termP-2
  A-2  F2Senior long-termBaa1
  BBB  BBB+SunTrust Bank    
Short-termP-2
  A-2  F2Senior long-termA3
  BBB+  BBB+OutlookStable
  Positive  PositiveSources of Funds.
  Our primary source of funds is a large, stable retail deposit base. Core deposits, predominantly made up 
of consumer and commercial deposits originated primarily from our retail branch network, are our largest and most cost-

effective source of funding. Core deposits decreased to $127.7 billion at December 31, 2013, from $130.2 billion at 

December 31, 2012. 
We also maintain access to diversified resources for both secured and unsecured wholesale funding. These uncommitted 

sources include Fed funds purchased from other banks, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, negotiable CDs, 

offshore deposits, FHLB advances, Global Bank Notes, and CP. Aggregate wholesale funding increased to $17.3 billion at 

December 31, 2013 from $15.3 billion at December 31, 2012. Net short-term unsecured borrowings, which includes wholesale 

domestic and foreign deposits, as well as Fed funds purchased, increased modestly from $4.5 billion at December 31, 2012 

to $4.9 billion at December 31, 2013.
As mentioned above, the Bank and Parent Company maintain programs to access the debt capital markets. The Parent Company 

maintains an SEC shelf registration from which it may issue senior or subordinated notes and various capital securities such 

as common or preferred stock. Our Board has authorized the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of such securities, of which 

approximately $3.6 billion of issuance capacity remained available at December 31, 2013. During 2013, we issued several 
small structured notes for the Parent Company in the aggregate amount of $140 million. Additionally, in 2013 the Parent 

Company issued $750 million 5-year senior notes that pay a fixed annual coupon rate of 2.35% and will mature on November 

1, 2018. We may call the notes at par beginning on October 1, 2018. The Bank maintains a Global Bank Note program under 

which it may issue senior or subordinated debt with various terms. In 2013, the Bank issued $600 million of 10-year senior 

notes that will pay a fixed annual coupon rate of 2.75%. We may call the notes at par beginning on April 1, 2023, one month 

prior to the notes' stated maturity date. At December 31, 2013, the Bank retained $37.0 billion of remaining capacity to issue 

notes under the Global Bank Note program. See the "Recent Developments" section below for a description of issuances 

subsequent to December 31, 2013.
Our issuance capacity under these Bank and Parent Company programs refers to authorization granted by our Board, which 
is formal program capacity and not a commitment to purchase by any investor. Debt and equity securities issued under these 

programs are designed to appeal primarily to domestic and international institutional investors. Institutional investor demand 

for these securities depends upon numerous factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings and investor perception of 

financial market conditions and the health of the banking sector. Therefore, our ability to access these markets in the future 

could be impaired for either systemic or idiosyncratic reasons. As mentioned above, we maintain contingency funding scenarios 

to anticipate and manage the likely impact of impaired capital markets access and other adverse liquidity circumstances.84Parent Company Liquidity. 
 Our primary measure of Parent Company liquidity is the length of time the Parent Company can 
meet its existing and certain forecasted obligations using its cash resources. We measure and manage this metric, "Months to 

Required Funding," using forecasts of both normal and adverse conditions. Under adverse conditions, we measure how long 

the Parent Company can meet its capital and debt service obligations after experiencing material attrition of short-term, 

unsecured funding and without the support of dividends from the Bank or access to the capital markets. At December 31, 

2013, the Parent's Months to Required Funding remained well in excess of current ALCO and Board limits. The BRC regularly 

reviews this and other liquidity risk metrics. In accordance with these risk limits established by ALCO and the Board, we 

manage the Parent Company™s liquidity by structuring its net maturity schedule to minimize the amount of debt maturing 

within a short period of time. No Parent Company debt matured during 2013 and no material Parent Company debt is scheduled 

to mature in 2014 or 2015. A majority of the Parent Company™s liabilities are long-term in nature, coming from the proceeds 

of issuances of our capital securities and long-term senior and subordinated notes. 
The primary uses of Parent Company liquidity include debt service, dividends on capital instruments, the periodic purchase 
of investment securities, loans to our subsidiaries, and common share repurchases. See further details of the authorized common
 share repurchases in the "Capital Resources" section of this MD&A and in Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, 

Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" in this Form 10-K. We fund corporate dividends with 

Parent Company cash, the primary sources of which are dividends from our banking subsidiary and proceeds from the issuance 

of debt and capital securities. We are subject to both state and federal banking regulations that limit our ability to pay comm
on stock dividends in certain circumstances.
Recent Developments.  In January 2014, we issued $250 million of 3-year floating rate senior notes under our Global Bank 
Note program. The notes pay a floating coupon rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 44 basis points. Also in January 2014, we issued 

$600 million of 3-year senior notes under our Global Bank Note program. The notes pay a fixed annual coupon rate of 1.35%. 

We may call both issuances beginning on January 15, 2017 and they will mature on February 15, 2017. We used the proceeds 

from this offering for general corporate purposes.

Other Liquidity Considerations.  Numerous legislative and regulatory proposals currently outstanding may have an effect on 
our liquidity if they become effective. For example, on October 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve published proposed rules to 

implement the LCR for U.S. banks. The LCR would require banks to hold unencumbered, high-quality, liquid assets sufficient 

to withstand projected cash outflows under a prescribed liquidity stress scenario. The LCR is proposed to be phased-in as a 

regulatory requirement beginning January 1, 2015. While the potential impact of this and other regulatory proposals cannot 

be fully quantified at present, we believe that our strong core banking franchise and prudent liquidity management practices 

will position us well to comply with the new standards as they become effective.

In 2011, the Federal Reserve published proposed measures to strengthen regulation and supervision of large bank holding 

companies and systemically important nonbank financial firms, pursuant to Sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

These proposed regulations include a number of requirements related to liquidity that would be instituted in phases. The first 

phase encompasses largely qualitative liquidity risk management practices, including internal liquidity stress testing. The 

second phase would include certain quantitative liquidity requirements related to the proposed Basel III liquidity standards, 

such as the LCR noted above. We believe that we will be well positioned to demonstrate compliance with these new 

requirements and standards if and when they are adopted.
At December 31, 2013, our liability for UTBs was $291 million and the liability for interest related to these UTBs was $17 

million. The UTBs represent the difference between tax positions taken or expected to be taken in our tax returns and the 

benefits recognized and measured in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance for income taxes. The UTBs are based 

on various tax positions in several jurisdictions, and if taxes related to these positions are ultimately paid, the payments wo
uld be made from our normal operating cash flows, likely over multiple years. See additional discussion in the "Provision for 

Income Taxes" section of this MD&A and Note 14, "Income Taxes," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 

10-K.85As presented below, we had an aggregate potential obligation of $64.1 billion to our clients in unused lines of credit at 

December 31, 2013. Commitments to extend credit are arrangements to lend to clients who have complied with predetermined 

contractual obligations. We also had $3.3 billion in letters of credit at December 31, 2013, most of which are standby letters 

of credit, which require that we provide funding if certain future events occur. Approximately $1.4 billion of these letters 

supported variable rate demand obligations at December 31, 2013. Unused commercial lines of credit have increased since 

December 31, 2012, as we continued to provide credit availability to our clients, while mortgage commitments have decreased 

significantly due to a decline in IRLC contracts as a result of rising interest rates during the year.
Unfunded Lending CommitmentsTable 31
(Dollars in millions)December 31, 2013December 31, 2012Unused lines of credit:Commercial$43,444$36,902Mortgage commitments 12,7229,152Home equity lines11,15711,739CRE2,0781,684Credit card4,7084,075Total unused lines of credit$64,109$63,552Letters of credit:Financial standby$3,256$3,993Performance standby5749Commercial2856Total letters of credit$3,341$4,0981 Includes IRLC contracts with notional balances of $1.8 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
Other Market Risk

Other sources of market risk include the risk associated with holding residential and commercial mortgage loans prior to 

selling them into the secondary market, commitments to clients to make mortgage loans that will be sold to the secondary 

market, and our investment in MSRs. We manage the risks associated with the residential and commercial mortgage LHFS 

(i.e., the warehouse) and our IRLCs on residential loans intended for sale. The warehouses and IRLCs consist primarily of 

fixed and adjustable rate single family residential and CRE loans. The risk associated with the warehouses and IRLCs is the 

potential change in interest rates between the time the customer locks the rate on the anticipated loan and the time the loan 

is sold on the secondary market, which is typically 60-150 days.
We manage interest rate risk predominantly with interest rate swaps, futures, and forward sale agreements, where the changes 

in value of the instruments substantially offset the changes in value of the warehouse and the IRLCs. The IRLCs on residential 

mortgage loans intended for sale are classified as derivative financial instruments and are not designated as hedge accounting 

relationships.
MSRs are the present value of future net cash flows that are expected to be received from the mortgage servicing portfolio. 

The value of MSRs is highly dependent upon the assumed prepayment speed of the mortgage servicing portfolio, which is 

driven by the level of certain key interest rates, primarily the 30-year current coupon par mortgage rate. Future expected net 

cash flows from servicing a loan in the mortgage servicing portfolio would not be realized if the loan pays off earlier than 

anticipated.
MSRs, which are carried at fair value, totaled $1.3 billion and $899 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, are 

managed within established risk limits, and are monitored as part of various governance processes. We originated MSRs with 

fair values at the time of origination of $352 million and $336 million during 2013 and 2012, respectively, and recognized a 

mark-to-market increase of $50 million and a decrease of $353 million in the fair value of our MSRs in 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. Increases or decreases in fair value include the decay resulting from the realization of expected monthly net 

servicing cash flows. We recorded $233 million and $69 million of net losses during 2013 and 2012, respectively, inclusive 

of decay and related hedges. The increase in net losses related to MSRs during 2013 compared to 2012 was driven by a decline 

in net hedge performance as a result of decreased carry income and an increase in market interest rate volatility, as well as a
 modest increase in decay. 
86We also held a total net book value of approximately $14 million and $32 million of private equity (direct investments) and 

other equity-related investments at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We generally hold these investments as long-

term investments. If conditions in the market deteriorate, impairment charges could occur related to these long-term investment
s and other assets, including but not limited to goodwill and other intangible assets.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

See discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements in Note 10, ﬁCertain Transfers of Financial Assets and Variable Interest 

Entities,ﬂ and Note 17, ﬁGuarantees,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.
CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS
In the normal course of business, we enter into certain contractual obligations, including obligations to make future payments 

on debt and lease arrangements, contractual commitments for capital expenditures, and service contracts. The table below 

presents our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2013, except for pension and other postretirement benefit 

plans, which are included in Note 15, "Employee Benefit Plans," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.
Table 32At December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)1 year or less1-3 years3-5 yearsAfter 5 yearsTotal
Time deposit maturities 
1$8,369$3,728$886$73$13,056
Brokered time deposits 11,2623872231522,024
Long-term debt 1,281,9516,3422,38910,690
Operating lease obligations2083862623541,210
Capital lease obligations 1134210
Purchase obligations 328465318388
  Total$10,132$6,520$7,748$2,978$27,378
1 Amounts do not include accrued interest.2 Amounts do not include capital lease obligations.3 Represents aggregation of termination fees on legally binding contracts to purchase goods or services that have a minimum termi
nation fee of $5 million 
or more. Amounts paid under these contracts totaled $194 million during 2013; however, there is no minimum annual payment other
 than termination fees 
required. 87SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATATable 33
 Three Months Ended20132012(Dollars in millions, except per share data)December 31September 30June 30March 31
December 31September 30June 30March 31
Summary of Operations:Interest income$1,343$1,339$1,347$1,359
$1,396$1,445$1,492$1,534
Interest expense130131136138
150174218223
Net interest income1,2131,2081,2111,221
1,2461,2711,2741,311
Provision for credit losses10195146212
328450300317
Net interest income after provision for
credit losses1,1121,1131,0651,009
918821974994
Noninterest income1814680858863
1,0152,542940876
Noninterest expense1,3771,7431,3971,363
1,5101,7261,5461,541
Income before provision/(benefit) for
income taxes54950526509
4231,637368329
Provision/(benefit) for income taxes122(146)146151
625519169
Net income attributable to noncontrolling
interest1736
59210
Net income$426$189$377$352
$356$1,077$275$250
Net income available to common
shareholders$413$179$365$340
$350$1,066$270$245
Net interest income - FTE 2$1,247$1,240$1,242$1,251
$1,276$1,301$1,306$1,342
Total revenue - FTE 
1,22,0611,9202,1002,114
2,2913,8432,2462,218
Total revenue - FTE, excluding net

securities gains 22,0601,9202,1002,112
2,2901,9022,2322,200
Net income per average common share:Diluted0.770.330.680.63
0.651.980.500.46
Diluted, excluding Form 8-K items 20.770.660.680.63
0.650.580.500.46
Basic0.780.330.680.64
0.661.990.510.46
Dividends paid per average common share0.100.100.100.05
0.050.050.050.05
Book value per common share38.6137.8537.6537.89
37.5937.3537.6937.11
Tangible book value per common share 
227.0126.2726.0826.33
25.9825.7226.0225.49
Market capitalization19,73417,42717,00515,563
15,27915,23213,04513,005
Market price:High36.9936.2932.8429.98
30.6430.7924.8324.93
Low31.9731.5926.9726.93
25.3022.3420.9618.07
Close36.8132.4231.5728.81
28.3528.2724.2324.17
Selected Average BalancesTotal assets$173,791$171,838$172,537$171,808
$174,510$175,282$177,915$176,855
Earning assets154,664154,250153,495152,471
151,225153,207154,890154,623
Loans125,649122,672121,372120,882
121,587124,080123,365122,542
Consumer and commercial deposits127,460126,618126,579127,655
127,907125,353125,885125,843
Brokered time and foreign deposits2,0102,0072,0752,170
2,2662,2372,2432,274
Intangible assets including MSRs7,6587,6437,4557,379
7,2787,2747,3837,354
MSRs1,2531,2321,039957
848829955919
Preferred Stock725725725725
334275275275
Total shareholders™ equity21,25121,02721,27221,117
20,63020,61920,47220,256
Average common shares - diluted (thousands)537,921538,850539,763539,862
539,618538,699537,495536,407
Average common shares - basic (thousands)532,492533,829535,172535,680
535,012534,506533,964533,100
Financial Ratios (Annualized)ROA0.97%0.44%0.88%0.83%
0.81%2.45%0.62%0.57%
ROE7.993.497.126.77
6.8620.845.314.89
ROTCE 211.615.1010.359.88
10.0430.517.797.21
Net interest margin - FTE3.203.193.253.33
3.363.383.393.49
Efficiency ratio 
366.8290.7766.5664.46
65.9344.9068.8369.50
Tangible efficiency ratio 
266.6190.4666.2764.17
65.6344.4768.3369.02
Total average shareholders™ equity to total
average assets12.2312.2412.3312.29
11.8211.7611.5111.45
Tangible equity to tangible assets 
29.008.988.959.00
8.828.488.318.14
Effective tax rate 
422.30NM27.8930.04
14.8633.8224.8521.55
Allowance to year-end total loans1.601.671.751.79
1.801.841.851.92
88Total NPAs to total loans

plus OREO, other repossessed assets, and 
nonperforming LHFS0.911.041.141.44
1.521.712.242.54
Common dividend payout ratio13.030.114.87.9
7.72.510.011.0
Capital AdequacyTier 1 common equity9.82%9.94%10.19%10.13%
10.04%9.82%9.40%9.33%
Tier 1 capital10.8110.9711.2411.20
11.1310.5710.1511.00
Total capital12.8113.0413.4313.45
13.4812.9512.8413.73
Tier 1 leverage9.589.469.409.26
8.918.498.158.77
 1 Includes net securities gains$1$Š$Š$2
$1$1,941$14$18
             2 See Non-GAAP reconcilements in Table 37 of this MD&A. 
3 Computed by dividing noninterest expense by total revenue-FTE. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of net interest
 income from certain loans and investments. We 
believe this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net inter
est income arising from taxable and tax-exempt 
sources.4 ﬁNMﬂ - not meaningful.FOURTH QUARTER 2013 RESULTS

We reported net income available to common shareholders of $413 million during the fourth quarter of 2013, an increase of 

$63 million, or 18%, compared with the same period of the prior year. Earnings per average common diluted share were $0.77 

for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with $0.65 for the fourth quarter of 2012. Lower provision for credit losses as a resu
lt of the continued improvement in credit quality, expense management, and declines in credit-related cyclical costs offset a 

decline in revenue to drive the increase in net income available to common shareholders. 
During the fourth quarter of 2013, net interest income on a FTE basis was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $29 million, or 2%, 

compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. The reduction in net interest income was due to lower yields on earning assets, partial
ly offset by higher average earning assets and lower interest expense driven by a favorable shift in deposit mix and an overall 

decline in deposit rates paid. Net interest margin decreased 16 basis points to 3.20% during the fourth quarter of 2013 compare
d to 3.36% for the same period in 2012. The decrease was primarily due to a 22 basis point decline in earning asset yields, 

partially offset by a seven basis point reduction in interest-bearing liability rates, primarily related to a favorable shift i
n deposit mix.
The provision for credit losses was $101 million during the fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $227 million, or 69%, 

compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease was due to continued improvement in asset quality in 2013 and the 

increased charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2012 related to NPL sales and the policy change related to Chapter 7 bankruptcy 

loans. See additional discussion of policy information in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies," to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. 
Total noninterest income was $814 million for the fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $201 million, or 20%, compared to 

the fourth quarter of 2012. This decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage production related and investment banking 

income, partially offset by lower valuation losses on the Company's fair value debt and an increase in other noninterest income
. Mortgage production related income during the fourth quarter of 2013 was $31 million compared to $241 million during the 

fourth quarter of 2012, a $210 million decrease driven by a decline in production volume and gain on sale margins as market 

interest rates increased.  Investment banking income decreased $16 million during the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the 

fourth quarter of 2012, due to a decline in fixed income origination revenue, partially offset by growth in mergers and 

acquisitions advisory and equity offering fees. Other noninterest income increased $37 million during the fourth quarter of 

2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily due to $25 million of net losses related to the sale of Ginnie Mae loans
 in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
Total noninterest expense was $1.4 billion during the fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $133 million, or 9%, compared to 

the fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease was a result of declines in almost all noninterest expense categories due to improved 

expense management and declines in cyclical costs. Specifically, the decreases were driven by other noninterest expense of 

$58 million, operating losses of $35 million, employee compensation and benefits expense of $15 million, and FDIC insurance 

and regulatory expense of $13 million. The decrease in other noninterest expense was primarily driven by declines in other 

real estate, consulting and legal, and credit and collections expenses due to declines in cyclical costs and the recognition of
 certain legacy mortgage items. Operating losses declined in 2013 due to a $32 million accrual for our portion of the Consent 

Order related to the Independent Foreclosure Review in the fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease in employee compensation 

and benefits expense  was primarily due to lower incentive compensation and employee benefit costs. The decrease in FDIC 

insurance and regulatory expense compared to the fourth quarter of 2012 was due to a decrease in our FDIC insurance 

assessment rate, reflecting our reduced risk profile.89The income tax provision during the fourth quarter of 2013 was $122 million compared with an income tax provision of $62 

million during the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase in the income tax provision was primarily the result of higher pre-tax 

income in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012. The fourth quarter 2013 and 2012 effective tax 

rates were favorably impacted by audit settlements, statute expirations, and/or changes in tax rates.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
The following table presents net income/(loss) for our reportable business segments during the years ended December 31:Net Income/(Loss) by SegmentTable 34(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management$583$310$350
Wholesale Banking900698270
Mortgage Banking(568)(696)(717)
Corporate Other4851,517432
Reconciling Items 1(56)129312
Total Corporate Other4291,646744
Consolidated net income1,3441,958647
1 Includes differences between net income/(loss) reported for each business segment using management accounting practices and U.
S. GAAP. Prior period information has been 
restated to reflect changes in internal reporting methodology and inter-segment transfers. See additional information in Note 2
0, "Business Segment Reporting," to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.The following table presents average loans and average deposits for our reportable business segments during the years ended 

December 31: Average Loans and Deposits by SegmentTable 35
 Average LoansAverage Consumer and Commercial Deposits
(Dollars in millions)201320122011
201320122011
Consumer Banking and Private Wealth
Management$40,457$41,823$40,209
$84,107$83,917$84,477
Wholesale Banking54,19550,74146,975
39,82738,69735,060
Mortgage Banking27,97430,28829,128
3,2063,6383,084
Corporate Other3141(4)
(64)(3)105
See Note 20, ﬁBusiness Segment Reporting,ﬂ to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for discussion of 

our segment structure, basis of presentation, and internal management reporting methodologies.
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS 

Years Ended December 31, 2013 vs. 2012

Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management

Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management reported net income of $583 million during the year ended December 

31, 2013, an increase of $273 million, or 88%, compared to 2012. The increase in net income was driven by continued 

improvement in credit quality resulting in a lower provision for credit losses and a decline in noninterest expense, which in 

aggregate, more than offset a decline in revenue.  

Net interest income was $2.6 billion during 2013, a decrease of $121 million, or 4%, compared to 2012. The decrease was 

driven by lower deposit spreads and lower average loan balances. Net interest income related to loans decreased $42 million, 

or 4%. Of this decrease, $34 million is attributable to a $1.4 billion, or 3%, decline in average loan balances, while the rema
ining decline is associated with a two basis point decrease in loan spreads. The decline in average loans was driven by the $2.0 

billion student loan sale executed in the fourth quarter of 2012 and home equity line paydowns during 2013. These declines 

were partially offset by increases in other consumer loan categories as a result of higher consumer loan production. Net intere
st income related to deposits decreased $104 million, or 6%, compared to the same period during 2012, as deposit spreads 
90decreased 13 basis points. Average deposit balances were essentially flat; however, favorable deposit mix trends continued 

as lower cost average deposit balances increased, offsetting a $2.4 billion, or 16%, decline in average time deposits. Other 

funding costs related to other assets improved by $29 million, driven primarily by a decline in funding rates.
Provision for credit losses was $362 million during 2013, a decrease of $283 million, or 44%, compared to 2012. The decrease 

was driven by declines in net charge-offs of $211 million in home equity lines and $41 million in consumer mortgage loans. 

Net charge-offs during 2012 included $43 million related to a change in policy which accelerated the timing for charging-off 

junior lien loans and $31 million related to a change in policy regarding loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 

Total noninterest income was $1.5 billion during 2013, a decrease of $20 million, or 1%, compared to 2012. The decrease 

was largely driven by the reclassification of certain card rewards costs to offset related revenue and declines in service char
ges on deposit account fees. These declines were partially offset by increases in wealth management revenue. 

Total noninterest expense was $2.8 billion during 2013, a decrease of $291 million, or 9%, compared to 2012. The decrease 

was driven by reductions in staff expense, other operating expenses, and overhead costs. These declines were partially the 

result of a more efficient branch network and staffing model resulting from reducing the number of branches by 7% compared 

to last year, as we made progress in our efforts to better align our distribution channels with evolving client preferences. 

Wholesale Banking
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $900 million during the year ended December 31, 2013, an increase of $202 

million, or 29%, compared to 2012. The increase in net income was attributable to decreases in provision for credit losses and 

noninterest expense and an increase in net interest income, partially offset by a decrease in noninterest income.

Net interest income was $1.7 billion during 2013, a $72 million, or 4%, increase compared to 2012, driven by an increase in 

average loan and deposit balances. Net interest income related to loans increased, as average loan balances increased $3.5 

billion, or 7%, driven by increases in commercial tax-exempt, domestic, and floor plans loans. Net interest income related to 

client deposits increased as average deposit balances increased $1.1 billion, or 3%, compared to the prior year. Favorable 

trends in deposit mix continued as lower cost demand deposits increased $514 million, or 3%, average interest-bearing 

transaction accounts and money market accounts increased a combined $805 million, or 5%, and time deposits decreased 

$190 million, or 17%.
Provision for credit losses was $79 million during 2013, a decrease of $187 million, or 70%, compared to 2012. The decrease 

was driven by declines in CRE, commercial, and residential mortgage loans net charge-offs.

Total noninterest income was $1.3 billion during 2013, a decrease of $123 million, or 9%, compared to 2012, driven by lower 

trading revenue and the impairment of certain lease financing assets during 2013. These declines were partially offset by gains
 on the disposition of affordable housing partnership assets and higher investment banking fees.

Total noninterest expense was $1.6 billion during 2013, a decrease of $172 million, or 10%, compared to 2012, driven by 

continued declines in other real estate related expense and other credit related expense. These declines were partially offset 

by increased operating losses as 2012 included the impact of the favorable settlement of litigation claims. Additionally, the 

prior year included a $96 million impairment charge related to the planned dispositions of affordable housing partnership 

assets that were substantially completed during 2013.
Mortgage Banking
Mortgage Banking reported a net loss of $568 million during the year ended December 31, 2013, an improvement of $128 

million, or 18%, compared to 2012. The improvement was driven by a lower provision for mortgage repurchases and lower 

provision for credit losses. These improvements were partially offset by a decrease in mortgage production related and servicin
g income and an increase in noninterest expense primarily attributable to the recognition of certain legacy mortgage matters.  
Net interest income was $539 million during 2013, an increase of $27 million, or 5%, compared to 2012. The increase was 

predominantly due to higher net interest income on loans that was partially offset by lower deposit net interest income and 

net interest income on LHFS. Net interest income on loans increased $46 million, or 14%, due to improved spreads on 

residential mortgages, as well as nonaccrual and restructured loans. However, average residential mortgage loans decreased 

$1.5 billion, or 6%, which partially offset the improved spreads. Net interest income on deposits decreased $10 million due 

to a $432 million decrease, or 12%, in total average deposits. Net interest income on LHFS decreased $9 million due to lower 

loan spreads, coupled with a $207 million decrease in average balances.91Provision for credit losses was $238 million during 2013, a decrease of $532 million, or 69%, compared to 2012. The 

improvement was driven by a decline in net charge-offs, partially attributable to the $193 million in net charge-offs related 

to the transfer of loans to LHFS and subsequent sale of nonperforming residential mortgage loans during 2012. Additionally, 

policy changes related to second lien home equity loans and discharged Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans added $70 million in 

aggregate net charge-offs during 2012.

Total noninterest income was $402 million during 2013, a decrease of $100 million, or 20%, compared to 2012. The decrease 

was predominantly driven by a decline in mortgage production related income and lower mortgage servicing income, partially 

offset by a decline in the mortgage repurchase provision. Mortgage production related income decreased $27 million due to 

lower gain on sale margins and lower loan production, largely offset by an approximate $600 million decline in mortgage 

repurchase provision. Loan originations were $29.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $32.1 billion 

during 2012, a decrease of $2.2 billion, or 7%. Mortgage servicing income was $87 million, a decrease of $173 million, or 

67%, driven by less favorable net MSR hedge performance, higher decay, and lower servicing fees due to a decline in the 

servicing portfolio. Total loans serviced were $136.7 billion at December 31, 2013 compared with $144.9 billion at December 

31, 2012, down 6%.
Total noninterest expense was $1.5 billion during 2013, an increase of $134 million, or 10%, compared to 2012. Operating 

losses and collection services increased $234 million due to $291 million in charges to settle certain mortgage-related legal 

matters and a $96 million charge related to the increase in our allowance for servicing advances. These charges were recorded 

during the third quarter of 2013, compared to lower legal and servicing related losses recognized during 2012. These incrementa
l expenses were partially offset by declines in consulting expense of $84 million, predominantly due to lower costs associated 

with the Federal Reserve Consent Order, staff expense of $33 million, credit services expense of $15 million, and other real 

estate expense of $14 million. Additionally, total allocated support costs increased $51 million.

Corporate Other
Corporate Other net income during the year ended December 31, 2013 was $485 million, a decrease of $1.0 billion, or 68%, 

compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily due to the securities gains as a result of the sale of our Coke stock during 2012 

and lower net interest income as a result of maturing commercial loan related-swap income, partially offset by lower provision 

for income taxes.
Net interest income was $309 million during 2013, a decrease of $84 million, or 21%, compared to 2012. The decrease was 

driven by lower income from the aforementioned interest rate swaps and a $31 million decrease in foregone dividend income 

resulting from the sale of the Coke stock in 2012. These declines were partially offset by a decrease in funding costs. Total 

average assets decreased $1.8 billion, or 6%, primarily driven by a reduction in the securities AFS portfolio due to the 

aforementioned sale of the Coke stock. Average long-term debt decreased $1.9 billion, or 18%, and average short-term 

borrowings decreased $1.5 billion, or 27%, compared to 2012. The decline in average long-term debt was primarily due to 

the repayment of senior and subordinated debt, while the decline in average short-term debt was the result of the repayment 
of FHLB borrowings.
Total noninterest income was $56 million during 2013, a decrease of $1.9 billion, or 97%, compared to 2012, predominantly 

due to a $1.9 billion net gain on sale of our Coke stock in 2012. This decrease was partially offset by a $69 million decline 

in mark-to-market valuation losses on our public debt and index-linked CDs carried at fair value.
Total noninterest expense was a contra expense of $46 million during 2013 compared to an expense of $68 million during 

2012. The decrease in expense was mainly due to a higher recovery of internal cost allocations and declines in severance 

costs, incentive compensation and employee benefits related to business performance, and operating losses compared to 2012. 

Additionally, 2012 expenses also included a $38 million charitable contribution of Coke stock to the SunTrust Foundation 

and debt extinguishment charges related to the redemption of higher cost trust preferred securities.

The benefit for income taxes was $83 million during 2013 compared to a provision for income taxes of $767 million during 
2012. The year ended December 31, 2012 included the income tax impact of the gains on the sale of the Coke stock, while 

2013 included the impact of certain audit settlements, statute expirations, tax planning strategies, and/or changes in tax rate
s.92Years Ended December 31, 2012 vs. 2011

Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management

Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management reported net income of $310 million during the year ended December 

31, 2012, a decrease of $40 million, or 11%, compared to 2011. The decrease in net income was due to lower noninterest 

income and higher noninterest expenses, partially offset by lower provision for credit losses. 

Net interest income was $2.7 billion during 2012, a decrease of $6 million compared to 2011. The decrease was driven by 

lower loan and deposit spreads, partially offset by the impact of higher average loan balances. Net interest income related to 

loans increased $17 million, or 2%, compared to the prior year driven by a $1.6 billion, or 4%, increase in average loan 

balances, partially offset by a decrease in loan spreads of six basis points. The increase in average loans was driven by the 

fourth quarter of 2011 acquisitions of student loan portfolios and higher production in indirect auto loans, partially offset b
y decreases in equity lines, commercial real estate, and residential mortgages. Other funding costs related to other assets impro
ved by $28 million, driven primarily by a decline in funding rates. Net interest income related to client deposits decreased $52 

million, or 3%, compared to the same period in 2011. The decrease in net interest income was driven by a five basis point 

decline in deposit spreads and a $560 million decrease in average client deposit balances.
Provision for credit losses was $645 million during 2012, a decrease of $144 million, or 18%, compared to 2011. The decrease 

was driven by declines in net charge-offs of $70 million in home equity lines, $31 million in commercial, $17 million in 

indirect, $17 million in credit card, and $10 million in residential mortgage loans. Included in these amounts were $43 million
 of incremental charge-offs related to a change in credit policy accelerating the charge-off of second lien loans from 180 days 

to 120 days past due and $31 million of incremental charge-offs related to a change in policy to recognize charge-offs on loans
 discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy.
 See additional discussion of credit and asset quality in the ﬁLoans,ﬂ ﬁAllowance for Credit 
Losses,ﬂ and ﬁNonperforming Assetsﬂ sections of this MD&A. 

Total noninterest income was $1.5 billion during 2012, a decrease of $178 million, or 11%, compared to 2011. Card fees 

decreased $153 million compared to 2011 driven by regulations on debit interchange fee income that became effective during 

2011. Additionally, there was a $20 million decline in trust and investment management income influenced by clients' desires 

for additional liquidity, along with a $16 million decline in service charges on deposit accounts, partially offset by a $12 

million increase in retail investment income. 
Total noninterest expense was $3.1 billion during 2012, an increase of $22 million, or 1%, compared to 2011. The increase 

was driven by corporate overhead allocations that offset a decrease in expenses managed by the business, such as reduced 

staff expense, other real estate, advertising, other staff, and operating supplies expense.

Wholesale Banking
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $698 million during the year ended December 31, 2012, an increase of $428 

million, compared to 2011. The increase was attributable to decreases in provision for credit losses and noninterest expense 

combined with increases in both net interest income and noninterest income.
Net interest income was $1.7 billion during 2012, an increase of $165 million, or 11%, compared to 2011, driven by higher 

loan and deposit balances. Net interest income related to loans increased $94 million, or 10%, as average loan balances 

increased $3.8 billion, or 8%, driven by increases in commercial domestic and tax-exempt loans, partially offset by decreases 

in CRE loans. Net interest income related to deposits increased $51 million, or 9%, resulting from a $3.6 billion, or 10%, 

increase in client deposit balances. Favorable trends in deposit mix continued as lower cost demand deposits increased $4.3 

billion, or 27%, while average interest-bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts decreased a combined $608 

million, or 3%.
Provision for credit losses was $266 million during 2012, a decrease of $293 million, or 52%, compared to 2011. The decrease 

was driven by lower net charge-offs in CRE, commercial domestic, and residential mortgage loans.

Total noninterest income was $1.4 billion during 2012, an increase of $182 million, or 15%, compared to 2011, predominantly 

driven by increased trading revenue, investment banking revenue, service charges on deposit accounts, card services, and non 

margin loan fees. These increases were partially offset by declines in letter of credit fees and other miscellaneous income.
93Total noninterest expense was $1.8 billion during 2012, a decrease of $64 million, or 3%, compared to 2011, driven by favorable
 settlement of litigation claims and continued declines in other real estate related expense and staff expense. Noninterest expe
nse included impairment charges of $96 million related to the planned disposition of affordable housing partnership investments, 

announced in September 2012. Sales of the partnership investments were substantially completed during 2013. 
Mortgage Banking
Mortgage Banking reported a net loss of $696 million during the year ended December 31, 2012, an improvement of $21 

million, or 3%, compared to 2011. The improvement was driven by higher gains on sale of loans and improved net MSR 

hedge performance that was largely offset by higher provision for mortgage repurchases, provision for credit losses, and 

noninterest expenses. During 2012, strategic actions were taken to improve the risk profile and strengthen the balance 

sheet. Those actions included additional provision for mortgage repurchases expected to cover pre-2009 GSE demands, higher 

provision for loan losses associated with charge-offs related to NPL sales, and market valuation losses associated with the 

transfer to LHFS and subsequent sale of Ginnie Mae loans.
Net interest income was $512 million during 2012, an increase of $41 million, or 9%, compared to 2011. The increase was 

predominantly due to higher net interest income on loans and LHFS and reduced funding costs on lower MSR balances. 

Average residential mortgage loans increased $1.6 billion, or 6%, resulting in an increase in net interest income of $21 millio
n. Net interest income on LHFS increased $14 million due to a $964 million increase in average balances, partially offset by 

lower loan spreads.
Provision for credit losses was $770 million during 2012, an increase of $77 million, or 11%, compared to 2011. The increase 

was driven by charge-offs of $193 million related to NPL sales during 2012 compared with $10 million of charge-offs related 

to NPL sales during 2011. Additionally, policy changes related to second lien home equity loans and discharged Chapter 7 

bankruptcy loans added $70 million in net charge-offs during 2012. Excluding the incremental charge-offs associated with 

NPL sales and policy changes, net charge-offs declined during 2012.

Noninterest income was $502 million during 2012, an increase of $261 million, compared to 2011 driven by higher mortgage 

production related and servicing income, partially offset by higher losses on the sale of Ginnie Mae loans during 2012. Total 

mortgage production related income during the year was $341 million, an increase of $361 million compared to the prior year. 

Loan production volume was $32.1 billion in 2012, an increase of $9.0 billion, or 39%, from the prior year resulting in higher 

gain on sale and fee income. Additionally, the mortgage loan repurchase provision increased $211 million over the prior year, 

largely due to a provision in 2012 to cover expected losses on pre-2009 GSE demands.

Mortgage servicing income was $260 million during 2012, an increase of $36 million, or 16%, compared to 2011 due to 

favorable net MSR hedge performance, partially offset by higher decay and lower fee income. Additionally, 2011 included a 

$38 million reduction of servicing income due to an increase in prepayment assumptions attributable to anticipated refinancing 

activity arising from the HARP 2.0 program. Total loans serviced were $144.9 billion at December 31, 2012 compared with 

$157.8 billion at December 31, 2011, down 8%.

Total noninterest expense was $1.4 billion during 2012, an increase of $179 million, or 15% compared to 2011. The higher 

expenses were attributable to a $79 million increase in operating losses due to compliance-related costs, largely associated 

with mortgage servicing and litigation expenses. Additionally, consulting expenses increased $44 million, predominantly due 

to costs associated with the Federal Reserve Consent Order and other business initiatives. Total allocated costs increased $70 

million and staff expenses increased $48 million, driven by costs associated with higher production volumes. These increases 

were partially offset by lower agency compensatory fees and lower OREO expenses.

Corporate Other
Corporate Other net income during the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1.5 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, compared 

to 2011. The increase was predominantly due to securities gains as a result of the sale of Coke stock, partially offset by lowe
r interest income as a result of maturing interest rate swaps utilized to manage interest rate risk, lower gains from the sale of
 other securities AFS, and a higher charitable contributions expense.
94Net interest income was $393 million during 2012, a decrease of $111 million, or 22%, compared to 2011. The decrease was 

primarily due to lower income from the aforementioned interest rate swaps and was partially offset by lower cost of funds 

driven by a decrease in other assets. Total average assets decreased $3.0 billion, or 10%, predominantly due to reduction in 

the investment portfolio. Average long-term debt decreased $1.7 billion, or 14%, compared to 2011, primarily due to the 

repayment of senior and subordinated debt. Average short-term borrowings increased $5.7 billion as our non-deposit funding 

profile began to reflect a more normalized asset growth and balance sheet environment.
Total noninterest income was $2.0 billion during 2012, an increase of $1.7 billion, compared to 2011. The increase was 

predominantly due to a $1.9 billion net gain on the sale of the Coke stock. These gains were partially offset by a $186 million
 decrease in mark-to-market valuation gains on our public debt and index linked CDs carried at fair value, and an $83 million 

decrease in net gains on the sale of other securities AFS.

Total noninterest expenses decreased $65 million during 2012 compared to 2011. The decrease was mainly due to the potential 

national mortgage servicing settlement claim expense recorded in 2011 and was partially offset by a $38 million charitable 

contribution of the Coke stock to the SunTrust Foundation, higher severance expense, higher lease abandonment charges 

related to office space utilization changes, and increased debt extinguishment charges during 2012 related to the redemption 

of higher cost trust preferred securities. The increase in total staff expense was due to a $60 million gain related to curtail
ment of our pension plan, net of a discretionary 401(k) contribution recognized during 2011 and increased incentive expenses during 

2012 as a result of improved business performance.95Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - AnnualTable 36
Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions, except per share data)20132012As Reported8-KAdjustmentsExcluding Form 8-K items 1As Reported8-KAdjustmentsExcluding Form 8-K items 1Net interest income$4,853$Š$4,853
$5,102$Š$5,102
Provision for credit losses553Š553
1,395172
21,223         Net interest income after provision
         for credit losses4,300Š4,300
3,7071723,879
Noninterest Income
Service charges on deposit accounts657Š657
676Š676
Other charges and fees369Š369
402Š402
Card fees310Š310
316Š316
Trust and investment management income518Š518
512Š512
Retail investment services267Š267
241Š241
Investment banking income356Š356
342Š342
Trading income182Š182
211Š211
Mortgage production related income314(63)
3377343(371)
4714Mortgage servicing related income87Š87
260Š260
Net securities gains2Š2
1,9741,938
536Other noninterest income152Š152
96(92)
6188    Total noninterest income3,214(63)3,277
5,3731,4753,898
Noninterest Expense
Employee compensation and benefits2,901Š2,901
3,077Š3,077
Outside processing and software746Š746
710Š710
Net occupancy expense348Š348
359Š359
Operating losses503323
7180277Š277
Credit and collection services26496
8168239Š239
Regulatory assessments181Š181
233Š233
Equipment expense181Š181
188Š188
Marketing and customer development135Š135
18438
9146Consulting and legal fees73Š73165Š165Amortization/impairment of intangible
assets/goodwill23Š23
46Š46
Other real estate expense4Š4
140Š140
Net loss on extinguishment of debtŠŠŠ
16Š16
Other noninterest expense521Š521
68996
10593    Total noninterest expense5,8804195,461
6,3231346,189
Income before provision for income taxes1,634(482)2,116
2,7571,1691,588
    Provision/(benefit) for income taxes273(303)
11576773416
11357Income including income attributable to
noncontrolling interest1,361(179)1,540
1,9847531,231
Net income attributable to noncontrolling
interest17Š17
26Š26
    Net income$1,344($179)$1,523
$1,958$753$1,205
Net income available to common
shareholders$1,297($179)$1,476
$1,931$753$1,178
Net income per average common share -
diluted$2.41($0.33)$2.74
$3.59$1.40$2.19
Total Revenue - FTE 
12$8,194($63)$8,257
$10,598$1,475$9,123
Efficiency ratio 1371.75%(5.61)%66.14%
59.67%8.17%67.84%
Tangible efficiency ratio 
1471.48%(5.62)%65.86%
59.24%8.10%67.34%
Effective tax rate 1516.89%10.55%27.44%
28.29%(5.43)%22.86%
1 We present certain income statement categories and also total revenue - FTE, net income per average common diluted share, net i
ncome, net income available to 
common shareholders, an efficiency ratio, a tangible efficiency ratio, and the effective tax rate, excluding Form 8-K items. We
 believe these measures are useful to 
investors because it removes the effect of material items impacting the years' results and is more reflective of normalized ope
rations as it reflects results that are primarily 
96client relationship and client transaction driven. Removing these items also allows investors to compare our results to other c
ompanies in the industry that may not 
have had similar items impacting their results. These measures are utilized by us to measure performance. Additional detail on 
the items can be found in Form 8-Ks 
filed with the SEC on October 10, 2013 and September 6, 2012. 2 Reflects the pre-tax provision expense associated with the planned sale of $0.5 billion of nonperforming mortgage and CRE loans
 and impacts the Mortgage Banking 
and Wholesale Banking segments.
3 Reflects the pre-tax impact of certain mortgage repurchase settlements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and impacts the Mortgage Banking segment.4 Reflects the pre-tax mortgage repurchase provision related to loans sold to GSEs prior to 2009 and impacts the Mortgage Banking segment.5 Reflects the pre-tax gain associated with the early termination of agreements involving Coke shares and impacts the Corporate Other segment.6 Reflects the pre-tax loss from moving $1.4 billion of student loans and $0.5 billion of Ginnie Mae loans to LHFS and impacts th
e Consumer Banking and Private 
Wealth Management and Mortgage Banking segments.
7 Reflects the pre-tax impact from the settlement of certain legal and regulatory matters and primarily impacts the Mortgage Banking segment.8 Reflects the pre-tax impact from the mortgage servicing advances allowance increase and impacts the Mortgage Banking segment.9 Reflects the pre-tax impact from the charitable contribution of one million Coke shares and impacts the Corporate Other segment.10 Reflects the pre-tax write-down associated with actively marketing $0.2 billion of affordable housing investments and impacts t
he Wholesale Banking segment.
11 
Reflects the provision/(benefit) for income taxes impact on above items as well as certain tax items disclosed in the Form 8-Ks.12 We present total revenue - FTE excluding Form 8-K items. Total Revenue is calculated as net interest income - FTE plus noninter
est income. Net interest income is presented on an FTE basis, which adjusts for the tax-favored status of net interest income from certain loans and investments. 
We believe this measure to be the preferred 
industry measurement of net interest income, and it enhances comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-
exempt sources. We also believe that 
revenue without the impacts of the Form 8-K items is more indicative of our performance because it isolates income that is prim
arily client relationship and client 
transaction driven and is more indicative of normalized operations.13 Computed by dividing noninterest expense by total revenue - FTE. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of net intere
st income from certain loans and 
investments. We believe this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income, and it enhances comparabi
lity of net interest income arising 
from taxable and tax-exempt sources. We present the efficiency ratio excluding the impacts of the Form 8-K items because removi
ng the impact of these items is more 
indicative of normalized operations. 14 We present a tangible efficiency ratio, which excludes the amortization of intangible assets. We believe this measure is useful
 to investors because, by removing the 
effect of these intangible asset costs (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easil
y compare our efficiency to other 
companies in the industry. This measure is utilized by us to assess our efficiency and that of our lines of business. We also p
resent the tangible efficiency ratio excluding 
the impacts of the Form 8-K items because removing the impact of these items is more indicative of normalized operations.15 We present the effective tax rate excluding the impacts of the Form 8-K items because removing the impact of these items is mor
e indicative of normalized operations 
and the effective rate for the periods' results excluding these items.
97Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures Œ Annual, continued Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions, except per share data)20132012201120102009
Net income/(loss)$1,344$1,958$647$189($1,564)
Preferred dividends(37)(12)(7)(7)(14)
Dividends and accretion of discount on preferred stock issued to
the U.S. Treasury
ŠŠ(66)(267)(266)
Accelerated accretion associated with repurchase of preferred
stock issued to the U.S. Treasury
ŠŠ(74)ŠŠ
Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to unvested shares(10)(15)(5)(2)17
Gain on purchase of Series A preferred stockŠŠŠŠ94
Net income/(loss) available to common shareholders$1,297$1,931$495($87)($1,733)
Goodwill/intangible impairment charges attributable to common
shareholders, after tax of $0 in 2012, and $36 million in 2009Š7ŠŠ715
Net income/(loss) available to common shareholders excluding 
goodwill/intangible impairment charges, after tax 
1$1,297$1,938$495($87)($1,018)
Net income/(loss) available to common shareholders excluding 
accelerated accretion associated with repurchase of preferred
stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
1$1,297$1,931$569($87)($1,733)
Efficiency ratio 
271.75%59.67%72.49%67.94%79.07%
Impact of excluding impairment/amortization of goodwill/
intangible assets other than MSRs(0.27)(0.43)(0.50)(0.58)(9.72)
Tangible efficiency ratio 
371.48%59.24%71.99%67.36%69.35%
ROA0.78%1.11%0.38%0.11%(0.89%)
Impact of removing Form 8-K items from net income0.10(0.43)ŠŠŠ
ROA excluding Form 8-K items 
40.88%0.68%0.38%0.11%(0.89%)
ROE6.34%9.56%2.56%(0.49%)(10.07%)
Impact of removing average intangible assets, excluding MSRs,
from average common shareholders' equity2.914.461.27(0.27)(7.49)
ROTCE 59.25%14.02%3.83%(0.76%)(17.56%)
Impact of removing Form 8-K items from net income available to
common shareholders' equity1.27(5.47)ŠŠŠ
ROTCE excluding Form 8-K items 510.52%8.55%3.83%(0.76%)(17.56%)
Total shareholders™ equity$21,422$20,985$20,066$23,130$22,531
Goodwill, net of deferred taxes 6(6,183)(6,206)(6,190)(6,189)(6,204)
Other intangible assets, net of deferred taxes, and MSRs 7(1,332)(949)(1,001)(1,545)(1,671)
MSRs1,3008999211,4391,540
Tangible equity15,20714,72913,79616,83516,196
Preferred stock(725)(725)(275)(4,942)(4,917)
Tangible common equity$14,482$14,004$13,521$11,893$11,279
Total assets$175,335$173,442$176,859$172,874$174,165
Goodwill(6,369)(6,369)(6,344)(6,323)(6,319)
Other intangible assets including MSRs(1,334)(956)(1,017)(1,571)(1,711)
MSRs1,3008999211,4391,540
Tangible assets$168,932$167,016$170,419$166,419$167,675
Tangible equity to tangible assets 
89.00%8.82%8.10%10.12%9.66%
Tangible book value per common share 
9$27.01$25.98$25.18$23.76$22.59
Net interest income$4,853$5,102$5,065$4,854$4,466
Taxable-equivalent adjustment127123114116123
Net interest income - FTE4,9805,2255,1794,9704,589
Noninterest income3,2145,3733,4213,7293,710
Total revenue - FTE 
108,19410,5988,6008,6998,299
Securities gains, net(2)(1,974)(117)(191)(98)
Total revenue - FTE excluding securities gains, net 
10$8,192$8,624$8,483$8,508$8,201
98(Dollars in billions)December 31, 2013Reconciliation of Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio
Tier 1 Common Equity - Basel I
$14.6Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III 11ŠCET 1 Capital - Basel III 
1214.6RWA - Basel I$148.7Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III 133.9RWA - Basel III 
12152.6Resulting regulatory capital ratios:Basel I - Tier 1 common equity ratio9.8%Basel III - Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 
129.61 We present net income/(loss) available to common shareholders that excludes the portion of the impairment charges on goodwill a
nd intangible assets allocated to the common 
shareholders and net income/(loss) to common shareholders that excludes the accelerated accretion associated with the repurchas
e of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. 
We believe these measures are useful to investors, because removing the non-cash impairment charge and non-cash accelerated acc
retion provides a more representative view 
of normalized operations and the measure also allows better comparability with peers in the industry who also provide a similar
 presentation when applicable. In addition, we 
use this measure internally to analyze performance.2 Computed by dividing noninterest expense by total revenue - FTE. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of net intere
st income from certain loans and investments. 
We believe this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net in
terest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt 
sources.3 We present a tangible efficiency ratio which excludes the impairment/amortization of goodwill/intangible assets other than MSRs
. We believe this measure is useful to investors 
because, by removing the effect of these intangible asset costs and goodwill impairment (the level of which may vary from compa
ny to company), it allows investors to more 
easily compare our efficiency to other companies in the industry. This measure is utilized by us to assess our efficiency and t
hat of our lines of business.4 We present return on average total assets excluding the impact of the Form 8-K items because removing the impact of these items
 is more indicative of normalized 
operations.5 We present ROTCE to exclude intangible assets and Form 8-K items, except for MSRs, from average common shareholders' equity. We
 believe this measure is useful to investors 
because, by removing the effect of intangible assets and Form 8-K items, except for MSRs, (the level of which may vary from com
pany to company), it allows investors to more 
easily compare our ROE to other companies in the industry who present a similar measure. We also believe that removing intangib
le assets, except for MSRs, is a more relevant 
measure of the return on our common shareholders' equity. 
6 Goodwill is deducted net of deferred taxes to determine Tier 1 capital. Deferred taxes of $186 million, $163 million, $154 mill
ion, $134 million, and $115 million are excluded 
from 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
7 Other intangible assets are deducted net of deferred taxes to determine Tier 1 capital. Deferred taxes of $2 million, $7 millio
n, $16 million, $26 million, and $40 million are excluded from 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
8 We present a tangible equity to tangible assets ratio that excludes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible asse
ts. We believe this measure is useful to investors 
because, by removing the effect of intangible assets that result from merger and acquisition activity (the level of which may v
ary from company to company), it allows investors 
to more easily compare our capital adequacy to other companies in the industry. This measure is used by us to analyze capital a
dequacy.
9 We present a tangible book value per common share that excludes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible assets a
nd also excludes preferred stock from tangible 
equity. We believe this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the effect of intangible assets that result from me
rger and acquisition activity as well as preferred 
stock (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare our common stock book value to other companies in the industry.
10 We present total revenue - FTE excluding net securities gains. Total Revenue is calculated as net interest income - FTE plus no
ninterest income. Net interest income is presented 
on an FTE basis, which adjusts for the tax-favored status of net interest income from certain loans and investments. We believe
 this measure to be the preferred industry measurement 
of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. We als
o believe that revenue without net securities gains 
is more indicative of our performance because it isolates income that is primarily client relationship and client transaction d
riven and is more indicative of normalized operations.
11 
Primarily relates to the improved treatment of mortgage servicing assets essentially offset by certain disallowed DTAs.
12 The Basel III calculations of CET 1, RWA, and the common equity Tier 1 ratio are based upon our current interpretation of the f
inal Basel III rules published by the Federal 
Reserve during October 2013, on a fully phased in basis.13 The largest differences between our RWA as calculated under Basel I compared to Basel III relate to the risk-weightings for cer
tain commercial loans, unfunded commitments, and mortgage servicing assets. 99Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures Œ QuarterlyTable 37 Three Months Ended(Dollars in millions, except
per share data)20132012December 31September 30June 30March 31
December 31September 30June 30March 31
Net income$426$189$377$352
$356$1,077$275$250
Preferred dividends(10)(9)(9)(9)
(4)(2)(3)(3)Dividends and undistributed
earnings allocated to unvested
shares(3)(1)(3)(3)
(2)(9)(2)(2)Net income available to
common shareholders$413$179$365$340
$350$1,066$270$245
Net income available to 
common shareholders, 
excluding Form 8-K items1$413$358$365$340
$350$313$270$245
Net income per average
common share, diluted$0.77$0.33$0.68$0.63
$0.65$1.98$0.50$0.46
Impact of Form 8-K items
from the third quarters of 2013
and 2012Š0.33ŠŠ
Š(1.40)ŠŠ
Diluted net income per share, 
excluding Form 8-K items 1$0.77$0.66$0.68$0.63
$0.65$0.58$0.50$0.46
Efficiency ratio 
266.82%90.77%66.56%64.46%
65.93%44.90%68.83%69.50%
Impact of excluding
amortization of intangible
assets/impairment of goodwill(0.21)(0.31)(0.29)(0.29)
(0.30)(0.43)(0.50)(0.48)Tangible efficiency ratio 
366.61%90.46%66.27%64.17%
65.63%44.47%68.33%69.02%
ROE7.99%3.49%7.12%6.77%
6.86%20.84%5.37%4.94%
Impact of removing average
intangible assets, excluding
MSRs,  from average
shareholders' equity3.621.613.233.11
3.189.672.422.27
ROTCE 411.61%5.10%10.35%9.88%
10.04%30.51%7.79%7.21%
Total shareholders™ equity$21,422$21,070$21,007$21,194
$20,985$20,399$20,568$20,241
Goodwill, net of deferred 
taxes 5(6,183)(6,189)(6,195)(6,200)
(6,206)(6,210)(6,220)(6,180)Other intangible assets, net of 
deferred taxes, and MSRs 6(1,332)(1,285)(1,240)(1,071)
(949)(888)(929)(1,142)MSRs1,3001,2481,1991,025
8998318651,070
Tangible equity15,20714,84414,77114,948
14,72914,13214,28413,989
Preferred stock(725)(725)(725)(725)
(725)(275)(275)(275)Tangible common equity$14,482$14,119$14,046$14,223
$14,004$13,857$14,009$13,714
Total assets$175,335$171,777$171,546$172,435
$173,442$173,181$178,257$178,226
Goodwill(6,369)(6,369)(6,369)(6,369)
(6,369)(6,369)(6,376)(6,344)Other intangible assets
including MSRs(1,334)(1,287)(1,244)(1,076)
(956)(896)(939)(1,155)MSRs1,3001,2481,1991,025
8998318651,070
Tangible assets$168,932$165,369$165,132$166,015
$167,016$166,747$171,807$171,797
Tangible equity to tangible 

assets 79.00%8.98%8.95%9.00%
8.82%8.48%8.31%8.14%
Tangible book value per 

common share 8$27.01$26.27$26.08$26.33
$25.98$25.72$26.02$25.49
Net interest income$1,213$1,208$1,211$1,221
$1,246$1,271$1,274$1,311
Taxable-equivalent adjustment34323130
30303231
Net interest income - FTE1,2471,2401,2421,251
1,2761,3011,3061,342
Noninterest income814680858863
1,0152,542940876
Total revenue - FTE 
92,0611,9202,1002,114
2,2913,8432,2462,218
Securities gains, net(1)ŠŠ(2)
(1)(1,941)(14)(18)Total revenue - FTE excluding 

securities gains, net 9$2,060$1,920$2,100$2,112
$2,290$1,902$2,232$2,200
1 We present net income available to common shareholders and diluted net income per share, excluding Form 8-K items. We believe the
se measures are useful to 
investors because it removes the effect of material items impacting the quarters' results and is more reflective of normalized 
operations as it reflects results that are 
primarily client relationship and client transaction driven. Removing these items also allows investors to compare our results 
to other companies in the industry that 
may not have had similar items impacting their results. These measures are utilized by us to measure performance. Additional de
tail on the items can be found in Form 
8-Ks filed with the SEC on October 10, 2013 and September 6, 2012 and in Table 36, "Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures - A
nnual," in this MD&A.2Computed by dividing noninterest expense by total revenue - FTE. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of net intere
st income from certain loans and investments. We 
believe this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net inter
est income arising from taxable and tax-exempt 
sources.1003We present a tangible efficiency ratio which excludes the impairment/amortization of goodwill/intangible assets. We believe thi
s measure is useful to investors because, by removing 
the effect of these intangible asset costs (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more e
asily compare our efficiency to other companies in 
the industry. This measure is utilized by us to assess our efficiency and that of our lines of business.
4We present ROTCE to exclude intangible assets, except for MSRs, from average common shareholders' equity. We believe this measu
re is useful to investors because, by removing 
the effect of intangible assets, except for MSRs, (the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to
 more easily compare our ROE to other companies 
in the industry who present a similar measure. We also believe that removing intangible assets, except for MSRs, is a more rele
vant measure of the return on our common shareholders' 
equity. 
5Net of deferred taxes of $186 million, $180 million, $174 million, and $169 million, respectively, in 2013; and $163 million, $
159 million, $156 million, and $164 million, respectively, in 2012.
6Net of deferred taxes of $2 million, $2 million, $4 million, and $5 million in 2013; and $7 million, $8 million, $10 million, and $14 million, respectively, in 2012.
7We present a tangible equity to tangible assets ratio that excludes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible asse
ts. We believe this measure is useful to investors 
because, by removing the effect of intangible assets that result from merger and acquisition activity (the level of which may v
ary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare our capital adequacy to other companies in the industry. This measure is used by us to analyze capital a
dequacy.
8We present a tangible book value per common share that excludes the after-tax impact of purchase accounting intangible assets a
nd also excludes preferred stock from tangible 
equity. We believe this measure is useful to investors because, by removing the effect of intangible assets that result from me
rger and acquisition activity as well as preferred stock 
(the level of which may vary from company to company), it allows investors to more easily compare our common stock book value to other companies in the industry.
9We present total revenue - FTE excluding net securities gains. Total Revenue is calculated as net interest income - FTE plus no
ninterest income. Net interest income is presented 
on an FTE basis, which adjusts for the tax-favored status of net interest income from certain loans and investments. We believe
 this measure to be the preferred industry measurement 
of net interest income and it enhances comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. We als
o believe that revenue without net securities gains 
is more indicative of our performance because it isolates income that is primarily client relationship and client transaction d
riven and is more indicative of normalized operations.
101
Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
See ﬁMD&AŠEnterprise Risk Management,ﬂ in this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of SunTrust Banks, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of SunTrust Banks, Inc. (the Company) as of December 31, 
2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013. These financial statements are the responsibility of 
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement
s 
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosure
s 
in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by 
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
 
basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
 
position of SunTrust Banks, Inc. at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting 
principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 
States), SunTrust Banks, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria establishe
d 
in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(1992 Framework) and our report dated February 24, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Atlanta, Georgia
February 24, 2014
102
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of SunTrust Banks, Inc.
We have audited SunTrust Banks, Inc.™s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (1992 Framework) (the COSO criteria). SunTrust Banks, Inc.™s management is responsible for maintaining 
effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over finan
cial 
reporting included in Management™s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on the company™s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). 
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal 
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of 
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the desig
n 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we 
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with general
ly 
accepted accounting principles. A company™s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the 
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, SunTrust Banks, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting 
as 
of December 31, 2013, based on
 
the COSO criteria
.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), 
the consolidated balance sheets of SunTrust Banks, Inc. as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated 
statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders™ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period 
ended December 31, 2013 of SunTrust Banks, Inc. and our report dated February 24, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion 
thereon.   
Atlanta, Georgia 
February 24, 2014
103SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of IncomeYear Ended December 31(Dollars in millions and shares in thousands, except per share data)201320122011
Interest IncomeInterest and fees on loans$4,633$5,035$5,219
Interest and fees on loans held for sale10711293
Interest and dividends on securities available for sale 1579655791
Trading account interest and other696578
Total interest income5,3885,8676,181
Interest ExpenseInterest on deposits291429624
Interest on long-term debt210299449
Interest on other borrowings343743
Total interest expense5357651,116
Net interest income4,8535,1025,065
Provision for credit losses5531,3951,513
Net interest income after provision for credit losses4,3003,7073,552
Noninterest IncomeService charges on deposit accounts657676685
Other charges and fees369402415
Card fees310316463
Trust and investment management income518512531
Retail investment services267241230
Investment banking income356342317
Trading income182211248
Mortgage production related income/(loss)314343(5)
Mortgage servicing related income87260224
Net securities gains 221,974117
Other noninterest income15296196
     Total noninterest income3,2145,3733,421
Noninterest ExpenseEmployee compensation2,4882,6032,494
Employee benefits413474382
Outside processing and software746710653
Net occupancy expense348359356
Operating losses503277377
Credit and collection services264239275
Regulatory assessments181233300
Equipment expense181188178
Marketing and customer development135184184
Consulting and legal fees73165120
Amortization/impairment of intangible assets/goodwill234643
Other real estate expense4140264
Net loss/(gain) on debt extinguishmentŠ16(3)
Other noninterest expense521689611
Total noninterest expense5,8806,3236,234
Income before provision for income taxes1,6342,757739
Provision for income taxes27377379
Net income including income attributable to noncontrolling interest1,3611,984660
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest172613
Net income$1,344$1,958$647
Net income available to common shareholders$1,297$1,931$495
Net income per average common share:Diluted$2.41$3.59$0.94
Basic2.433.620.94
Dividends declared per common share0.350.200.12
Average common shares - diluted539,093538,061527,618
Average common shares - basic534,283534,149523,995
1 Includes dividends on Coke common stock of $31 million and $56 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
2 Total OTTI was $0, $1 million, and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Of total OTT
I, losses of $1 million, $7 million, and $6 million were recognized in earnings, and gains of $1 million, $6 million, and $4 million were recognized as non-credit-related OTTI in 
OCI for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 
and 2011, respectively.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.104SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Net income$1,344$1,958$647
Components of other comprehensive (loss)/income:Change in net unrealized (losses)/gains on securities, net of tax of          
($349), ($738) and $199, respectively(597)(1,343)337
Change in net unrealized (losses)/gains on derivatives, net of tax of                  
($148), ($25) and $22, respectively(253)(37)37
Change related to employee benefit plans, net of tax of 
$147, ($35) and ($141), respectively252(60)(241)
Total other comprehensive (loss)/income(598)(1,440)133
Total comprehensive income$746$518$780
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 105SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Consolidated Balance SheetsDecember 31(Dollars in millions and shares in thousands)20132012Assets
Cash and due from banks$4,258$7,134Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell9831,101Interest-bearing deposits in other banks2222Cash and cash equivalents5,2638,257Trading assets and derivatives (includes encumbered securities pledged against repurchase

agreements of $731 and $727 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)5,0406,227Securities available for sale22,54221,953Loans held for sale 1 ($1,378 and $3,243 at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)1,6993,399Loans 2 ($302 and $379 at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)127,877121,470Allowance for loan and lease losses(2,044)(2,174)Net loans125,833119,296Premises and equipment1,5651,564Goodwill6,3696,369Other intangible assets (MSRs at fair value: $1,300 and $899 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)1,334956Other real estate owned170264Other assets5,5205,157Total assets$175,335$173,442Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity
Noninterest-bearing deposits$38,800$39,481Interest-bearing deposits (CDs at fair value: $764 and $832 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)90,95992,835Total deposits129,759132,316Funds purchased1,192617Securities sold under agreements to repurchase1,7591,574Other short-term borrowings5,7883,303Long-term debt 3 ($1,556 and $1,622 at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)10,7009,357Trading liabilities and derivatives1,1811,176Other liabilities3,5344,114Total liabilities153,913152,457Preferred stock, no par value725725Common stock, $1.00 par value550550Additional paid in capital9,1159,174Retained earnings11,93610,817Treasury stock, at cost, and other 
4(615)(590)Accumulated other comprehensive (loss)/income, net of tax(289)309Total shareholders™ equity21,42220,985Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$175,335$173,442Common shares outstanding536,097538,959Common shares authorized750,000750,000Preferred shares outstanding77Preferred shares authorized50,00050,000Treasury shares of common stock13,82410,9621 Includes loans held for sale, at fair value, of consolidated VIEs
$261$3192 Includes loans of consolidated VIEs
3273653 Includes debt of consolidated VIEs ($256 and $286 at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively)
5976664 Includes noncontrolling interest119114  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.106SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders™ Equity
(Dollars and shares in millions, except per share data)PreferredStockCommonSharesOutstandingCommonStockAdditionalPaid inCapitalRetained 
EarningsTreasury
Stock andOther 1AccumulatedOther Comprehensive (Loss)/Income 2TotalBalance, January 1, 2011$4,942500$515$8,403$8,542
($888)$1,616$23,130
Net incomeŠŠŠŠ647ŠŠ647

Other comprehensive incomeŠŠŠŠŠŠ133133

Change in noncontrolling interestŠŠŠŠŠ
(22)Š(22)
Common stock dividends, $0.12 per shareŠŠŠŠ
(64)ŠŠ(64)
Series A preferred stock dividends, $4,056 per shareŠŠŠŠ
(7)ŠŠ(7)
U.S. Treasury preferred stock dividends, $1,236 per shareŠŠŠŠ
(60)ŠŠ(60)
Accretion of discount for preferred stock issued to U.S. Treasury6ŠŠŠ
(6)ŠŠŠ
Repurchase of preferred stock issued to U.S. Treasury(4,776)ŠŠŠ
(74)ŠŠ(4,850)
Purchase of outstanding warrants(11)(11)
Issuance of common stockŠ3535982ŠŠŠ1,017

Issuance of preferred stock103ŠŠŠŠŠŠ103

Exercise of stock options and stock compensation expenseŠŠŠ11Š1Š12

Restricted stock activityŠ1Š
(58)Š50Š(8)
Amortization of restricted stock compensationŠŠŠŠŠ32Š32

Issuance of stock for employee benefit plans and otherŠ1Š
(21)Š35Š14
Balance, December 31, 2011$275537$550$9,306$8,978
($792)$1,749$20,066
Net incomeŠŠŠŠ1,958ŠŠ1,958

Other comprehensive lossŠŠŠŠŠŠ
(1,440)(1,440)
Change in noncontrolling interestŠŠŠŠŠ7Š7

Common stock dividends, $0.20 per shareŠŠŠŠ
(107)ŠŠ(107)
Series A and B Preferred stock dividends, $4,052 per shareŠŠŠŠ
(12)ŠŠ(12)
Issuance of preferred stock450ŠŠ
(12)ŠŠŠ438
Exercise of stock options and stock compensation expenseŠ1Š
(44)Š65Š21
Restricted stock activityŠ1Š
(63)Š69Š6
Amortization of restricted stock compensationŠŠŠŠŠ30Š30

Issuance of stock for employee benefit plans and otherŠŠŠ
(13)Š31Š18
Balance, December 31, 2012$725539$550$9,174$10,817
($590)$309$20,985
Net incomeŠŠŠŠ1,344ŠŠ1,344
Other comprehensive lossŠŠŠŠŠŠ
(598)(598)
Change in noncontrolling interestŠŠŠŠŠ5Š5
Common stock dividends, $0.35 per shareŠŠŠŠ
(188)ŠŠ(188)
Preferred stock dividends 3ŠŠŠŠ
(37)ŠŠ(37)
Acquisition of treasury stockŠ(5)ŠŠŠ
(150)Š(150)
Exercise of stock options and stock compensation expenseŠ1Š
(27)Š43Š16
Restricted stock activityŠ1Š
(35)Š39Š4
Amortization of restricted stock compensationŠŠŠŠŠ32Š32
Issuance of stock for employee benefit plans and otherŠŠŠ3Š6Š9
Balance, December 31, 2013$725536$550$9,115$11,936
($615)($289)$21,422
1 At December 31, 2013, includes ($684) million for treasury stock, ($50) million for compensation element of restricted stock, and $119 million for noncontrolling interest.
  At December 31, 2012, includes ($656) million for treasury stock, ($48) million for compensation element of restricted stock,
 and $114 million for noncontrolling interest.
  At December 31, 2011, includes ($851) million for treasury stock, ($48) million for compensation element of restricted stock,
 and $107 million for noncontrolling interest.2 At December 31, 2013, includes ($77) million in unrealized net losses on AFS securities, $279 million in unrealized net gains o
n derivative financial instruments, and ($491) million related to employee benefit plans. 
At December 31, 2012, includes $520 million in unrealized net gains on AFS securities, $532 million in unrealized net gains on 
derivative financial instruments, and ($743) million related to 
employee benefit plans. 
At December 31, 2011, includes $1,863 million in unrealized net gains on AFS securities, $569 million  in unrealized net gains 
on derivative financial instruments, and ($683) million related to employee benefit plans.3 Dividends were $4,056 per share for Perpetual Preferred Stock Series A and B and $5,793 per share for Perpetual Preferred Stock
 Series E for the year ended December 31, 2013.See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.107SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Cash Flows from Operating ActivitiesNet income including income attributable to noncontrolling interest$1,361$1,984$660
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:Depreciation, amortization, and accretion708757760
Goodwill impairmentŠ7ŠOrigination of mortgage servicing rights(352)(336)(224)
Provisions for credit losses and foreclosed property6051,5351,664
Mortgage repurchase provision114713502
Deferred income tax expense49519483
Stock option compensation and amortization of restricted stock compensation343544
Net loss/(gain) on extinguishment of debtŠ16(3)
Net securities gains(2)(1,974)(117)
Net gain on sale of loans held for sale, loans, and other assets(267)(1,063)(390)
Gain on pension curtailmentŠŠ(88)
Net decrease in loans held for sale2,1041942,234
Net decrease/(increase) in other assets235974(604)
Net (decrease)/increase in other liabilities(827)(1,026)18
Net cash provided by operating activities4,2082,0104,539
Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesProceeds from maturities, calls, and paydowns of securities available for sale5,5227,3715,557
Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale2,0634,30012,557
Purchases of securities available for sale(9,215)(5,814)(18,872)
Proceeds from maturities, calls, and paydowns of trading securities23139
Proceeds from sales of trading securities8Š102
Net increase in loans, including purchases of loans(8,409)(6,400)(10,575)
Proceeds from sales of loans8194,916270
Capital expenditures(200)(206)(131)
Payments related to acquisitions, including contingent consideration(3)(12)(24)
Proceeds from the sale of other real estate owned and other assets472585735
Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities(8,941)4,743(10,242)
Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesNet (decrease)/increase in total deposits(2,557)4,3944,878
Net increase/(decrease) in funds purchased, securities sold under agreements 
to repurchase, and other short-term borrowings3,245(5,972)6,650
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt1,5644,0001,749
Repayment of long-term debt(155)(5,772)(4,571)
Proceeds from the issuance of common stockŠŠ1,017
Proceeds from the issuance of preferred stockŠ438103
Repurchase of preferred stockŠŠ(4,850)
Purchase of outstanding warrantsŠŠ(11)
Repurchase of common stock(150)ŠŠCommon and preferred dividends paid(225)(119)(131)
Stock option activity1726Š
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities1,739(3,005)4,834
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents(2,994)3,748(869)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period8,2574,5095,378
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period$5,263$8,257$4,509
Supplemental Disclosures:
Interest paid$533$774$1,138
Income taxes paid16860768
Income taxes refunded(99)(1)(1)
Loans transferred from loans held for sale to loans437163
Loans transferred from loans to loans held for sale2803,695754
Loans transferred from loans and loans held for sale to other real estate owned255399725
Amortization of deferred gain on sale/leaseback of premises586759
Accretion of discount for preferred stock issued to the U.S. TreasuryŠŠ80
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.108Notes to Consolidated Financial StatementsNOTE 1 Œ SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General 
SunTrust, one of the nation's largest commercial banking organizations, is a financial services holding company with its 

headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. Through its principal subsidiary, SunTrust Bank, the Company offers a full line of financial 

services for consumers and businesses including deposit, credit, mortgage banking, and trust and investment services. 

Additional subsidiaries provide asset management, securities brokerage, and capital market services. SunTrust operates 

primarily within Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
 In certain businesses, SunTrust also operates in select markets nationally. SunTrust provides clients with a selection of 

technology-based banking channels, including the internet, mobile, ATMs, and telebanking. SunTrust™s client base 

encompasses a broad range of individuals and families, businesses, institutions, and governmental agencies. Within its 

geographic footprint, SunTrust operated under the following business segments during 2013: Consumer Banking and Private 

Wealth Management, Wholesale Banking, and Mortgage Banking, with the other activities included in Corporate Other. For 

additional information on the Company™s business segments, see Note 20, ﬁBusiness Segment Reporting.ﬂ

Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries after elimination of all 

significant intercompany accounts and transactions.
The Company holds VIs, which are contractual ownership or other interests that change with changes in the fair value of a 

VIE's net assets. The Company consolidates a VIE if it is the primary beneficiary, which is the party that has both the power 

to direct the activities that most significantly impact the financial performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losse
s or rights to receive benefits through its VIs that could potentially be significant to the VIE. To determine whether or not a V
I held by the Company could potentially be significant to the VIE, both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature
, size, and form of the Company's involvement with the VIE are considered. The assessment of whether or not the Company 

is the primary beneficiary of a VIE is performed on an on-going basis. The Company consolidates VOEs, which are entities 

that are not VIEs, that are controlled through the Company's equity interests.

Investments in companies which are not VIEs, or where the Company is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, that the Company 

has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financing decisions, are accounted for using the equity 

method of accounting. These investments are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at cost, adjusted to 

reflect the Company's portion of income, loss, or dividends of the investee. Unconsolidated equity investments that do not 

meet the criteria to be accounted for under the equity method are accounted for under the cost method. Cost method investments 

are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and dividends received or receivable from these investments 

are included as a component of other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Results of operations of companies purchased are included from the date of acquisition. Results of operations associated with 

companies or net assets sold are included through the date of disposition. The Company reports any noncontrolling interests 

in its subsidiaries in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets and separately presents the income or loss attribu
table to the noncontrolling interest of a consolidated subsidiary in its Consolidated Statements of Income. Assets and liabilities of
 purchased companies are initially recorded at estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and 

assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at 
the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
 could vary from these estimates. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the current 
period presentation.
The Company evaluated subsequent events through the date its financial statements were issued.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other banks, Fed funds sold, securities
 borrowed and purchased under agreements to resell. Cash and cash equivalents have maturities of three months or less, and 

accordingly, the carrying amount of these instruments is deemed to be a reasonable estimate of fair value.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued109Securities and Trading Activities

Debt securities and marketable equity securities are classified at trade date as trading or securities AFS. Trading account ass
ets and liabilities are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized within noninterest income. Securities AFS are 

used as part of the overall asset and liability management process to optimize income and market performance over an entire 

interest rate cycle. Interest income and dividends on securities are recognized in interest income on an accrual basis. Premium
s and discounts on debt securities are amortized as an adjustment to yield over the estimated life of the security. Securities AF
S are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of any tax effect, included in AOCI as a component of sharehold
ers™ 
equity. Realized gains and losses, including OTTI, are determined using the specific identification method and are recognized 

as a component of noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
On a quarterly basis, securities AFS are reviewed for possible OTTI. In determining whether OTTI exists for securities in an 

unrealized loss position, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the security or, for debt securities, the Comp
any assesses the likelihood of selling the security prior to the recovery of its amortized cost basis. If the Company intends to se
ll 
the debt security or it is more-likely-than-not that the Company will be required to sell the debt security prior to the recove
ry of its amortized cost basis, the debt security is written down to fair value, and the full amount of any impairment charge is 

recognized as a component of noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. If the Company does not intend 

to sell the debt security and it is more-likely-than-not that the Company will not be required to sell the debt security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis, only the credit component of any impairment of a debt security is recognized as a 

component of noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income, with the remaining impairment recorded in OCI.

The OTTI review for marketable equity securities includes an analysis of the facts and circumstances of each individual 

investment and focuses on the severity of loss, the length of time the fair value has been below cost, the expectation for that security's performance, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and management's intent and ability to 

hold the security to recovery. A decline in value of an equity security that is considered to be other-than-temporary is recogn
ized as a component of noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Nonmarketable equity securities are accounted for under the cost or equity method and are included in other assets in the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company reviews nonmarketable securities accounted for under the cost method on a 

quarterly basis, and reduces the asset value when declines in value are considered to be other-than-temporary. Equity method 

investments are recorded at cost, adjusted to reflect the Company™s portion of income, loss, or dividends of the investee. 

Realized income, realized losses, and estimated other-than-temporary unrealized losses on cost and equity method investments 

are recognized in noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
For additional information on the Company™s securities activities, see Note 4, ﬁTrading Assets and Liabilities and Derivatives,
ﬂ and Note 5, ﬁSecurities Available for Sale.ﬂ

Loans Held for Sale
The Company™s LHFS generally includes certain residential mortgage loans, commercial loans, and student loans. Loans are 

initially classified as LHFS when they are identified as being available for immediate sale and a formal plan exists to sell 

them. LHFS are recorded at either fair value, if elected, or the lower of cost or fair value on an individual loan basis. Origi
nation fees and costs for LHFS recorded at LOCOM are capitalized in the basis of the loan and are included in the calculation of 

realized gains and losses upon sale. Origination fees and costs are recognized in earnings at the time of origination for LHFS 

that are recorded at fair value. Fair value is derived from observable current market prices, when available, and includes loan
 servicing value. When observable market prices are not available, the Company uses judgment and estimates fair value using 

internal models, in which the Company uses its best estimates of assumptions it believes would be used by market participants 

in estimating fair value. Adjustments to reflect unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value and realized 

gains and losses upon ultimate sale of the loans are classified as noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

The Company may transfer certain residential mortgage loans, commercial loans, and student loans to a held for sale 

classification at LOCOM. At the time of transfer, any credit losses are recorded as a reduction in the ALLL. Subsequent credit 

losses, as well as incremental interest rate or liquidity related valuation adjustments, are recorded as a component of noninte
rest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company may also transfer loans from held for sale to held for 

investment. At the time of transfer, any difference between the carrying amount of the loan and its outstanding principal 

balance is recognized as an adjustment to yield using the interest method, unless the loan was elected upon origination to be 
accounted for at fair value. If a held for sale loan is transferred to held for investment for which fair value accounting was 

elected, it will continue to be accounted for at fair value in the held for investment portfolio. For additional information on
 the Company™s LHFS activities, see Note 6, ﬁLoans.ﬂ
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued110
Loans
Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or pay-off are considered
 LHFI. The Company™s loan balance is comprised of loans held in portfolio, including commercial loans, consumer loans, and 

residential loans. Interest income on all types of loans, except those classified as nonaccrual, is accrued based upon the 

outstanding principal amounts using the effective yield method.

Commercial loans (commercial & industrial, commercial real estate, and commercial construction) are considered to be past 

due when payment is not received from the borrower by the contractually specified due date. The Company typically classifies 

commercial loans as nonaccrual when one of the following events occurs: (i) interest or principal has been past due 90 days 
or more, unless the loan is both well secured and in the process of collection; (ii) collection of recorded interest or princip
al is not anticipated; or (iii) income for the loan is recognized on a cash basis due to the deterioration in the financial condit
ion of the debtor. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual, unpaid interest is reversed against interest income. Interest income on 

nonaccrual loans, if recognized, is recognized after the principal has been reduced to zero. If and when commercial borrowers 

demonstrate the ability to repay a loan in accordance with the contractual terms of a loan classified as nonaccrual, the loan 

may be returned to accrual status upon meeting all regulatory, accounting, and internal policy requirements.

Consumer loans (guaranteed and private student loans, other direct, indirect, and credit card) are considered to be past due 

when payment is not received from the borrower by the contractually specified due date. Guaranteed student loans continue 
to accrue interest regardless of delinquency status because collection of principal and interest is reasonably assured. Other 

direct and indirect loans are typically placed on nonaccrual when payments have been past due for 90 days or more except 

when the borrower has declared bankruptcy, in which case, they are moved to nonaccrual status once they become 60 days 

past due. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual, unpaid interest is reversed against interest income. Interest income on nonaccru
al loans, if recognized, is recognized on a cash basis. Nonaccrual consumer loans are typically returned to accrual status once 

they are no longer past due.
Residential loans (guaranteed and nonguaranteed residential mortgages, home equity products, and residential construction) 
are considered to be past due when a monthly payment is due and unpaid for one month. Guaranteed residential mortgages 

continue to accrue interest regardless of delinquency status because collection of principal and interest is reasonably assured
. Nonguaranteed residential mortgages and residential construction loans are generally placed on nonaccrual when three 

payments are past due. Home equity products are generally placed on nonaccrual when payments are 90 days past due. The 

exceptions for nonguaranteed residential mortgages, residential construction loans, and home equity products are: (i) when 

the borrower has declared bankruptcy, in which case, they are moved to nonaccrual status once they become 60 days past due; 

(ii) loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy that have not been reaffirmed by the borrower, in which case, they are moved 

to nonaccrual status immediately; and  (iii) second lien loans which are classified as nonaccrual when the first lien loan is 

classified as nonaccrual even if the second lien loan is performing. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual, unpaid interest is 

reversed against interest income. Interest income on nonaccrual loans, if recognized, is recognized on a cash basis. Nonaccrual
 residential loans are typically returned to accrual status once they no longer meet the delinquency threshold that resulted in 

them initially being moved to nonaccrual status, with the exception of the aforementioned Chapter 7 bankruptcy loans, which 

remain on nonaccrual until there is six months of payment performance following discharge by the bankruptcy court.

TDRs are loans in which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty at the time of restructure and the borrower received 

an economic concession either from the Company or as the product of a bankruptcy court order. To date, the Company™s TDRs 

have been predominantly first and second lien residential mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Prior to granting a 

modification of a borrower™s loan terms, the Company performs an evaluation of the borrower™s financial condition and ability 

to service under the potential modified loan terms. The types of concessions generally granted are extensions of the loan 

maturity date and/or reductions in the original contractual interest rate. Typically, if a loan is accruing interest at the tim
e of modification, the loan remains on accrual status and is subject to the Company™s charge-off and nonaccrual policies. See the 

ﬁAllowance for Credit Lossesﬂ section below for further information regarding these policies. If a loan is on nonaccrual before
 it is determined to be a TDR then the loan remains on nonaccrual. Typically, TDRs may be returned to accrual status if there 

has been at least a six month sustained period of repayment performance by the borrower. Generally, once a residential loan 

becomes a TDR, the Company expects that the loan will continue to be reported as a TDR for its remaining life even after 

returning to accruing status unless the modified rates and terms at the time of modification were available in the market. 

Interest income recognition on impaired loans is dependent upon nonaccrual status, TDR designation, and loan type as discussed 

above.
For loans accounted for at amortized cost, fees and incremental direct costs associated with the loan origination and pricing 

process, as well as premiums and discounts, are deferred and amortized as level yield adjustments over the respective loan 

terms.  Fees received for providing loan commitments that result in funded loans are recognized over the term of the loan as 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued111an adjustment of the yield. If a loan is never funded, the commitment fee is recognized into noninterest income at the expirati
on of the commitment period. Origination fees and costs are recognized in noninterest income and expense at the time of originatio
n for newly-originated loans that are accounted for at fair value. For additional information on the Company's loans activities, 

see Note 6, ﬁLoans.ﬂ
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses is composed of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. The Company™s ALLL 

is the amount considered adequate to absorb probable current inherent losses within the portfolio based on management™s 

evaluation of the size and current risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. In addition to the review of credit quality thro
ugh ongoing credit review processes, the Company employs a variety of modeling and estimation techniques to measure credit 

risk and construct an appropriate and adequate ALLL. Numerous asset quality measures, both quantitative and qualitative, 

are considered in estimating the ALLL. Such evaluation considers numerous factors for each of the loan portfolio segments, 

including, but not limited to net charge-off trends, internal risk ratings, changes in internal risk ratings, loss forecasts, c
ollateral values, geographic location, delinquency rates, nonperforming and restructured loan status, origination channel, product mix, 

underwriting practices, industry conditions, and economic trends. Additionally, refreshed FICO scores are considered for 

consumer and residential loans and single name borrower concentration is considered for commercial loans. These credit 

quality factors are incorporated into various loss estimation models and analytical tools utilized in the ALLL process and/or 

are qualitatively considered in evaluating the overall reasonableness of the ALLL.

Large commercial (all loan classes) nonaccrual loans and certain consumer (other direct, indirect, and credit card), residentia
l (nonguaranteed residential mortgages, home equity products, and residential construction), and commercial (all classes) loans 

whose terms have been modified in a TDR are individually identified for evaluation of impairment. A loan is considered 

impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and interest, 

according to the contractual terms of the agreement. If necessary, a specific allowance is established for individually evaluat
ed impaired loans. The specific allowance established for these loans is based on a thorough analysis of the most probable source 

of repayment, including the present value of the loan™s expected future cash flows, the loan™s estimated market value, or the 

estimated fair value of the underlying collateral depending on the most likely source of repayment. Any change in the present 

value attributable to the passage of time is recognized through the provision for credit losses.
General allowances are established for loans and leases grouped into pools based on similar characteristics. In this process, 

general allowance factors are based on an analysis of historical charge-off experience, portfolio trends, regional and national
 economic conditions, and expected LGD derived from the Company™s internal risk rating process. Other adjustments may be 

made to the ALLL after an assessment of internal and external influences on credit quality that are not fully reflected in the 

historical loss or other risk rating data. These influences may include elements such as changes in credit underwriting, 

concentration risk, macroeconomic conditions, and/or recent observable asset quality trends. 
The Company™s charge-off policy meets regulatory minimums. Commercial loans are charged-off when they are considered 

uncollectible. Losses on unsecured consumer loans are generally recognized at 120 days past due, except for losses on 

guaranteed student loans which are recognized at 270 days past due. However, if the borrower is in bankruptcy, the loan is 

charged-off in the month the loan becomes 60 days past due. Losses, as appropriate, on secured consumer loans, including 

residential real estate, are typically recognized at 120 or 180 days past due, depending on the loan and collateral type, in 

compliance with the FFIEC guidelines. However, if the borrower is in bankruptcy, the secured asset is evaluated once the loan 

becomes 60 days past due. The loan value in excess of the secured asset value is written down or charged-off after the valuatio
n occurs. Additionally, if a residential loan is discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower, the 

Company's policy is to immediately charge-off the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the collateral. Chapter 

7 bankruptcy loans are placed on nonaccrual status and remain on nonaccrual status, regardless of collateral value, until there
 is at least a six month period of repayment performance by the borrower following discharge by the bankruptcy court.

The Company uses numerous sources of information in order to make an appropriate evaluation of a property™s value. Estimated 

collateral valuations are based on appraisals, broker price opinions, recent sales of foreclosed properties, automated valuatio
n models, other property-specific information, and relevant market information, supplemented by the Company™s internal 

property valuation professionals. The value estimate is based on an orderly disposition inclusive of marketing the property. 

In limited instances, the Company adjusts externally provided appraisals for justifiable and well-supported reasons, such as 

an appraiser not being aware of certain property-specific factors or recent sales information. Appraisals generally represent 

the ﬁas isﬂ value of the property but may be adjusted based on the intended disposition strategy of the property.

For CRE loans secured by property, an acceptable third party appraisal or other form of evaluation, as permitted by regulation,
 is obtained prior to the origination of the loan and upon a subsequent transaction involving a material change in terms. In 

addition, updated valuations may be obtained during the life of a transaction, as appropriate, such as when a loan's performanc
e Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued112
materially deteriorates. In situations where an updated appraisal has not been received or a formal evaluation performed, the 

Company monitors factors that can positively or negatively impact property value, such as the date of the last valuation, the 
volatility of property values in specific markets, changes in the value of similar properties, and changes in the characteristi
cs of individual properties. Changes in collateral value affect the ALLL through the risk rating or impaired loan evaluation 

process. Charge-offs are recognized when the amount of the loss is quantifiable and timing is known. The charge-off is 

measured based on the difference between the loan™s carrying value, including deferred fees, and the estimated net realizable 

value of the loan, net of estimated selling costs. When assessing property value for the purpose of determining a charge-off, 

a third party appraisal or an independently derived internal evaluation is generally employed.
For mortgage loans secured by residential property where the Company is proceeding with a foreclosure action, a new valuation 

is obtained prior to the loan becoming 180 days past due and, if required, the loan is written down to net realizable value, ne
t of estimated selling costs. In the event the Company decides not to proceed with a foreclosure action, the full balance of the 
loan is charged-off. If a loan remains in the foreclosure process for 12 months past the original charge-off, the Company 

obtains a new valuation annually. Any additional loss based on the new valuation is either charged-off or provided for through 

the ALLL. At foreclosure, a new valuation is obtained and the loan is transferred to OREO at the new valuation less estimated 

selling costs; any loan balance in excess of the transfer value is charged-off. Estimated declines in value of the residential 

collateral between these formal evaluation events are captured in the ALLL based on changes in the house price index in the 

applicable MSA or other market information.  

In addition to the ALLL, the Company also estimates probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments, such as letters 

of credit and binding unfunded loan commitments. Unfunded lending commitments are analyzed and segregated by risk similar 

to funded loans based on the Company™s internal risk rating scale. These risk classifications, in combination with probability 

of commitment usage, existing economic conditions, and any other pertinent information, result in the estimation of the reserve
 for unfunded lending commitments. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments is reported on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets in other liabilities and the provision associated with changes in the unfunded lending commitment reserve is reported 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income in provision for credit losses. For additional information on the Company's allowance 

for credit loss activities, see Note 7, ﬁAllowance for Credit Losses.ﬂ
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated 

predominantly using the straight-line method over the assets™ estimated useful lives. Leasehold improvements are amortized 

using the straight-line method over the shorter of the improvements™ estimated useful lives or the lease term, depending on 

whether the lease meets the transfer of ownership or bargain-purchase option criterion. Certain leases are capitalized as asset
s for financial reporting purposes and are amortized using the straight-line method of amortization over the assets™ estimated 

useful lives or the lease terms, depending on the criteria that gave rise to the capitalization of the assets. Construction and
 software in process includes in process branch expansion, branch renovation, and software development projects. Upon 

completion, branch and office related projects are maintained in premises and equipment while completed software projects 

are reclassified to other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense, and 

improvements that extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life. Premises 

and equipment are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of 

the asset may not be recoverable. For additional information on the Company™s premises and equipment activities, see Note 

8, ﬁPremises and Equipment.ﬂ
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets of acquired companies. Goodwill 
is assigned to reporting units, which are operating segments or one level below an operating segment, as of the acquisition 

date. Goodwill is assigned to the Company™s reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business 

combination.
Goodwill is not amortized and instead is tested by reporting unit for impairment, at least annually, or as events and circumsta
nces change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount or indicate that it 

is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists when the carrying amount of a reporting unit is zero or negative. If,
 after considering all relevant events and circumstances, the Company determines it is not more likely than not that the fair 

value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two step impairment test is not necessary. If t
he Company determines via qualitative analysis that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less tha
n its carrying value, a two step goodwill impairment test is performed. The first step is used to identify potential impairment 

and the second step, if required, measures the amount of impairment by comparing the carrying amount of goodwill to its 

implied fair value. If the implied fair value of the goodwill exceeds the carrying amount, there is no impairment. If the goodw
ill Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued113
assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. 

Identified intangible assets that have a designated finite life are amortized over their useful lives and are evaluated for 

impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. 

For additional information on the Company™s activities related to goodwill and other intangibles, see Note 9, ﬁGoodwill and 

Other Intangible Assets.ﬂ

MSRs
The Company recognizes as assets the rights to service mortgage loans based on the estimated fair value of the MSRs when 
loans are sold and the associated servicing rights are retained. The Company has elected to record all MSRs at fair value. Fair
 value is determined by projecting net servicing cash flows, which are then discounted to estimate the fair value. The Company 

actively hedges its MSRs. The fair values of MSRs are impacted by a variety of factors, including prepayment assumptions, 

discount rates, delinquency rates, contractually specified servicing fees, servicing costs and underlying portfolio characteris
tics. The underlying assumptions and estimated values are corroborated by values received from independent third parties. The 

carrying value of MSRs is reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other intangible assets. Servicing fees are recognized
 as they are received and changes in fair value are also reported in mortgage servicing related income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. For additional information on the Company™s servicing fees, see Note 9, ﬁGoodwill and Other Intangible 

Assets.ﬂ
Other Real Estate Owned
Assets acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially recorded at the lower of the loan™
s cost basis or the asset™s fair value at the date of foreclosure, less estimated selling costs. To the extent fair value, less c
ost to sell, is less than the loan™s cost basis, the difference is charged to the ALLL at the date of transfer into OREO. The Company 

estimates market values primarily based on appraisals and other market information. Subsequent changes in value of the assets 

are reported as adjustments to the asset™s carrying amount. Subsequent to foreclosure, changes in value along with gains or 

losses from the disposition on these assets are reported in noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For 

additional information on the Company's activities related to OREO, see Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement.ﬂ

Loan Sales and Securitizations
The Company sells and at times may securitize loans and other financial assets. When the Company securitizes assets, it may 

hold a portion of the securities issued, including senior interests, subordinated and other residual interests, interest-only s
trips, and principal-only strips, all of which are considered retained interests in the transferred assets. Retained securitized inter
ests are recognized and initially measured at fair value. The interests in securitized assets held by the Company are typically 

classified as either securities AFS or trading assets and carried at fair value, which is based on independent, third party mar
ket prices, market prices for similar assets, or discounted cash flow analyses. If market prices are not available, fair value is 

calculated using management™s best estimates of key assumptions, including credit losses, loan repayment speeds and discount 

rates commensurate with the risks involved. For additional information on the Company™s securitization activities, see Note 

10, ﬁCertain Transfers of Financial Assets and Variable Interest Entities.ﬂ

Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes is based on income and expense reported for financial statement purposes after adjustment 

for permanent differences such as interest income from lending to tax-exempt entities and tax credits from community 

reinvestment activities. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities result from differences between the timing of the recogniti
on of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and for income tax return purposes. These assets and liabilities are
 measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are currently in effect. Subsequent changes in the tax laws require adjustme
nt to these assets and liabilities with the cumulative effect included in the provision for income taxes for the period in which t
he change is enacted. A valuation allowance is recognized for a DTA if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more 

likely than not that some portion or all of the DTA will not be realized. In computing the income tax provision, the Company 

evaluates the technical merits of its income tax positions based on current legislative, judicial and regulatory guidance. Inte
rest and penalties related to the Company™s tax positions are recognized as a component of the income tax provision. For additional 

information on the Company™s activities related to income taxes, see Note 14, ﬁIncome Taxes.ﬂ

Earnings Per Share
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common 

shares outstanding during each period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued114
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period, plus common share equivalents calculated 

for stock options, warrants, and restricted stock outstanding using the treasury stock method. 
The Company has issued certain restricted stock awards, which are unvested share-based payment awards that contain 

nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents. These restricted shares are considered participating securities. 

Accordingly, the Company calculated net income available to common shareholders pursuant to the two-class method, whereby 

net income is allocated between common shareholders and participating securities. 
Net income available to common shareholders represents net income after preferred stock dividends, accretion of the discount 

on preferred stock issuances, gains or losses from any repurchases of preferred stock, and dividends and allocation of 

undistributed earnings to the participating securities. For additional information on the Company™s EPS, see Note 12, ﬁNet 

Income Per Common Share.ﬂ
Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities purchased under agreements to resell are accounted for as 

collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were sold or acquired, plus accru
ed interest. The fair value of collateral pledged or received is continually monitored and additional collateral is obtained or 

requested to be returned to the Company as deemed appropriate. For additional information on the collateral pledged to secure 

repurchase agreements, see Note 3, "Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell," 

Note 4, "Trading Assets and Liabilities and Derivatives," and Note 5, "Securities Available for Sale."

Guarantees
The Company recognizes a liability at the inception of a guarantee, at an amount equal to the estimated fair value of the 

obligation. A guarantee is defined as a contract that contingently requires a company to make payment to a guaranteed party 

based upon changes in an underlying asset, liability, or equity security of the guaranteed party, or upon failure of a third pa
rty to perform under a specified agreement. The Company considers the following arrangements to be guarantees: certain asset 

purchase/sale agreements, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, certain indemnification agreements included 

within third party contractual arrangements, and certain derivative contracts. For additional information on the Company™s 

guarantor obligations, see Note 17, ﬁGuarantees.ﬂ
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company records all contracts that satisfy the definition of a derivative at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
 Accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative is dependent upon whether or not it has been designated in a formal, 

qualifying hedging relationship. The Company offsets all outstanding derivative transactions with a single counterparty as 

well as any cash collateral paid to and received from that counterparty for derivative contracts that are subject to ISDA or 

other legally enforceable master netting arrangements and meet accounting guidance for offsetting treatment. 

Changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated in a hedging relationship are recorded in noninterest income. This 

includes derivatives that the Company enters into in a dealer capacity to facilitate client transactions and as a risk manageme
nt tool to economically hedge certain identified market risks, along with certain IRLCs on residential mortgage loans that are a 

normal part of the Company™s operations. The Company also evaluates contracts, such as brokered deposits and short-term 

debt, to determine whether any embedded derivatives are required to be bifurcated and separately accounted for as freestanding 

derivatives. For certain contracts containing embedded derivatives, the Company has elected not to bifurcate the embedded 

derivative and instead carry the entire contract at fair value.
Certain derivatives used as risk management tools are also designated as accounting hedges of the Company™s exposure to 

changes in interest rates or other identified market risks. The Company prepares written hedge documentation for all derivative
s which are designated as hedges of (1) changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (fair value hedge) attributa
ble to a specified risk or (2) a forecasted transaction, such as the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a 

recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge). The written hedge documentation includes identification of, among other items,
 the risk management objective, hedging instrument, hedged item and methodologies for assessing and measuring hedge 

effectiveness and ineffectiveness, along with support for management™s assertion that the hedge will be highly effective. 

Methodologies related to hedge effectiveness and ineffectiveness are consistent between similar types of hedge transactions 

and have included (i) statistical regression analysis of changes in the cash flows of the actual derivative and a perfectly eff
ective hypothetical derivative, and (ii) statistical regression analysis of changes in the fair values of the actual derivative and th
e hedged item. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued115
For designated hedging relationships, the Company performs retrospective and prospective effectiveness testing using 

quantitative methods and does not assume perfect effectiveness through the matching of critical terms. Assessments of hedge 

effectiveness and measurements of hedge ineffectiveness are performed at least quarterly for ongoing effectiveness. Changes 

in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that has been designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge are
 recorded in current period earnings, along with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the 

hedged risk. The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that has been 

designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are initially recorded in AOCI and reclassified to earnings in the same period 

that the hedged item impacts earnings; any ineffective portion is recorded in current period earnings.

Hedge accounting ceases on transactions that are no longer deemed effective, or for which the derivative has been terminated 

or de-designated. For discontinued fair value hedges where the hedged item remains outstanding, the hedged item would cease 

to be remeasured at fair value attributable to changes in the hedged risk and any existing basis adjustment would be recognized
 as an adjustment to earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item. For discontinued cash flow hedges, the unrealized 

gains and losses recorded in AOCI would be reclassified to earnings in the period when the previously designated hedged 

cash flows occur unless it was determined that transaction was probable to not occur, whereby any unrealized gains and losses 

in AOCI would be immediately reclassified to earnings. For additional information on the Company™s derivative activities, 

see Note 16, ﬁDerivative Financial Instruments,ﬂ and Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement.ﬂ

Stock-Based Compensation
The Company sponsors stock plans under which incentive and nonqualified stock options and restricted stock may be granted 

periodically to certain employees. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation under the fair value recognition 

provisions whereby the fair value of the award at grant date is expensed over the award™s vesting period. Additionally, the 

Company estimates the number of awards for which it is probable that service will be rendered and adjusts compensation cost 

accordingly. Estimated forfeitures are subsequently adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures. For additional information on the 

Company™s stock-based employee compensation plans, see Note 15, ﬁEmployee Benefit Plans.ﬂ

Employee Benefits
Employee benefits expense includes the net periodic benefit costs associated with the pension, supplemental retirement, and 

other postretirement benefit plans, as well as contributions under the defined contribution plan, the amortization of restricte
d stock, stock option awards, and costs of other employee benefits. For additional information on the Company's employee 
benefit plans, see Note 15, ﬁEmployee Benefit Plans.ﬂ
Foreign Currency Transactions

Foreign denominated assets and liabilities resulting from foreign currency transactions are valued using period end foreign 

exchange rates and the associated interest income or expense is determined using approximate weighted average exchange 

rates for the period. The Company may elect to enter into foreign currency derivatives to mitigate its exposure to changes in 

foreign exchange rates. The derivative contracts are accounted for at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from such valuatio
ns are included in noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Fair Value

Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Examples of these include derivative instrument
s, AFS and trading securities, certain LHFI and LHFS, certain issuances of long-term debt, brokered deposits, and MSR assets. 

Fair value is used on a non-recurring basis as a measurement basis either when assets are evaluated for impairment, the basis 

of accounting is LOCOM, or for disclosure purposes. Examples of these non-recurring uses of fair value include certain LHFS 

and LHFI, OREO, goodwill, intangible assets, certain cost or equity method investments and long-lived assets. Fair value is 
defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 

market participants at the measurement date. Depending on the nature of the asset or liability, the Company uses various 

valuation techniques and assumptions when estimating fair value.
The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy:Ł Level 1 Œ Assets or liabilities valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
that the Company can access at the measurement date, such as publicly-traded instruments or futures contracts.Ł Level 2 Œ Assets and liabilities valued based on observable market data for similar instruments.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued116
Ł Level 3 Œ Assets or liabilities for which significant valuation assumptions are not readily observable in the market; 
instruments valued based on the best available data, some of which may be internally developed, and considers risk 

premiums that a market participant would require.To determine the fair value measurement for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the 

Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact and considers assumptions that 

market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. If available, the Company looks to active and observable 

markets to price identical assets or liabilities. If identical assets and liabilities are not traded in active markets, the Com
pany looks to market observable data for similar assets and liabilities. Nevertheless, the Company uses alternative valuation 

techniques to derive a fair value measurement for those assets and liabilities that are either not actively traded in observable markets or for which market observable inputs are not available. For additional information on the Company™s valuation of 

its assets and liabilities held at fair value, see Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement.ﬂ

Accounting Policies Recently Adopted and Pending Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and 

Liabilities." The ASU requires additional disclosures about financial instruments and derivative instruments that are offset or
 subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. In January 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-01, 

ﬁBalance Sheet (Topic 210): Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilitiesﬂ, which more narrowly 

defined the scope of financial instruments to only include derivatives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and 

securities borrowing and lending transactions. The Company adopted these ASUs at January 1, 2013, and the adoption did 

not have an impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or EPS. See Note 3, "Federal Funds Sold and 
Securities Borrowed or Purchased under Agreements to Resell" and Note 16, "Derivative Financial Instruments."

In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02, "Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified 

Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income" which provides disclosure guidance on amounts reclassified out of AOCI 

by component. The Company adopted the ASU at January 1, 2013, and the adoption did not have an impact on the Company's 

financial position, results of operations, or EPS. See Note 21, "Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income."
In March 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-04, "Liabilities (Topic 405): Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability 

Arrangements for Which the Total Amount of the Obligation Is Fixed at the Reporting Date (a consensus of the FASB Emerging 

Issues Task Force)." The ASU requires additional disclosures about joint and several liability arrangements and requires the 

Company to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements as the sum of the amount the Company 

agreed to pay on the basis of its arrangement among its co-obligors and any additional amount the Company expects to pay 

on behalf of its co-obligors. The ASU is effective for the fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013. 
 The Company adopted the ASU at January 1, 2014 and the adoption did not have an impact on the Company's financial 

position, results of operations, or EPS.
In June 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-08, "Financial ServicesŠInvestment Companies (Topic 946): Amendments to the 

Scope, Measurement, and Disclosure Requirements." The ASU clarifies the characteristics of an investment company and 

requires an investment company to measure noncontrolling ownership interests in other investment companies at fair value 

rather than using the equity method of accounting. The ASU is effective for the fiscal years and interim periods beginning 

after December 15, 2013. The Company adopted the ASU at January 1, 2014 and the adoption did not have a significant 

impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or EPS.
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-10, ﬁDerivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective 

Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes (a consensus of 

the Emerging Issues Task Force).ﬂ The ASU permits the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (OIS) to be used as a benchmark 

interest rate for hedge accounting purposes, in addition to U.S. Treasury rates, and LIBOR. The amendments also remove the 

restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar hedges. The ASU was effective prospectively for qualifying new or 

redesignated hedging relationships entered into on or after July 17, 2013. The adoption of the ASU had no impact on the 

Company's current hedging relationships and, thus, no impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or 

EPS.
In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-11, ﬁIncome Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When 

a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (a consensus of the Emerging 

Issues Task Force).ﬂ Prior to this ASU, U.S. GAAP did not include explicit guidance on the financial statement presentation 

of a UTB when a NOL carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. The ASU requires, with limited 

exceptions, that a UTB, or a portion of a UTB, should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a DTA for a 

NOL carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. The ASU is effective for fiscal years and interim periods 

beginning after December 15, 2013. As early adoption is permitted, the Company adopted this ASU upon issuance and applied 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued117
it retrospectively as permitted. As this ASU only impacts financial statement presentation and related footnote disclosures, 

there is no impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or EPS.
In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-01, "Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting 

for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force)."  The ASU 

allows for use of the proportional amortization method for qualified affordable housing projects if certain conditions are met.
   Under the proportional amortization method, the initial cost of the investment is amortized in proportion to the tax credits an
d other tax benefits received and the net investment performance is recognized in the income statement as a component of 

income tax expense.  The ASU provides for a practical expedient, which allows for amortization of only expected tax credits 

over the period tax credits are expected to be received.  This method is permitted if it produces a measurement that is substan
tially similar to the measurement that would  result from using both tax credits and other tax benefits. The ASU is effective for fisc
al years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2014.  As early adoption is permitted, the Company adopted this ASU 

upon issuance and expects to use the practical expedient method. The standard is required to be applied retrospectively, 

therefore prior period amounts included in noninterest expense prior to adoption will be reclassified in prior period presentat
ions during 2014. During the year ended December 31, 2013, prior to adoption, $49 million of initial investment costs were included 

in other noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  No other impact is expected on the Company's financial 

position, results of operations, or EPS.
In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-04, "ReceivablesŠTroubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40): 

Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure (a consensus of the 

FASB Emerging Issues Task Force)."  The update clarifies that an in substance repossession or foreclosure occurs, and a 

creditor is considered to have received physical possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a consumer 

mortgage loan, upon either (1) the creditor obtaining legal title to the residential real estate property upon completion of a 

foreclosure or (2) the borrower conveying all interest in the residential real estate property to the creditor to satisfy that loan through completion of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or through a similar legal agreement.  The ASU is effective for fiscal year
s and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2014.  The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a significant impact 

on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or EPS.
NOTE 2 - ACQUISITIONS/DISPOSITIONS

During the three years ended December 31, 2013, the Company consummated the following acquisitions:  (Dollars in millions)DateCash paidGoodwill
OtherIntangiblesGainComments
2012Acquisition of assets of
FirstAgain, LLC6/22/2012($12)$32$Š$Š
Goodwill recorded is tax-
deductible.2011Acquisition of certain additional
assets of CSI Capital
Management5/9/2011(19)207Š
Goodwill and intangibles 
recorded are tax-deductible.There were no material acquisitions or dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2013; however, the Company reached 

a definitive agreement in 2013 to sell RidgeWorth, and the sale is expected to close in the second quarter of 2014.  See Note 

20, "Business Segment Reporting," for additional detail.118
NOTE 3 - FEDERAL FUNDS SOLD AND SECURITIES BORROWED OR PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENTS 
TO RESELL
Fed funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell were as follows at December 31:(Dollars in millions)20132012Fed funds sold$75$29Securities borrowed184155Resell agreements724917Total fed funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell$983$1,101Securities purchased under agreements to resell are primarily collateralized by U.S. government or agency securities and are 

carried at the amounts at which securities will be subsequently resold. Securities borrowed are primarily collateralized by 

corporate securities. The Company takes possession of all securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities 

borrowed and performs the appropriate margin evaluation on the acquisition date based on market volatility, as necessary. It 

is the Company's policy to obtain possession of collateral with a fair value between 95% to 110% of the principal amount 

loaned under resale and securities borrowing agreements. The total market value of the collateral held was $913 million and 

$1.1 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of which $234 million and $246 million was repledged, respectively. 

Netting of Securities - Repurchase and Resell Agreements

The Company has various financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to enforceable master netting agreements 

or similar agreements. The Company's derivatives that are subject to enforceable master netting agreements or similar 

agreements are discussed in Note 16, "Derivative Financial Instruments." Securities purchased under agreements to resell and 

securities sold under agreements to repurchase are governed by a MRA. Under the terms of the MRA, all transactions between 

the Company and the counterparty constitute a single business relationship such that in the event of default, the nondefaulting
 party is entitled to set off claims and apply property held by that party in respect of any transaction against obligations owe
d. Any payments, deliveries, or other transfers may be applied against each other and netted. These amounts are limited to the 

contract asset/liability balance, and accordingly, do not include excess collateral received/pledged.

The following table presents the Company's eligible securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities 

sold under agreements to repurchase at December 31, 2013 and 2012:Net AmountPresented in
ConsolidatedBalance Sheets(Dollars in millions)Gross
AmountAmountOffsetHeld/PledgedFinancialInstrumentsNetAmountDecember 31, 2013
Financial assets:Securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell$908$Š$908
1, 2$899$9
Financial liabilities:Securities sold under agreements to repurchase1,759Š1,759
11,759Š
December 31, 2012
Financial assets:Securities borrowed or purchased under
agreements to resell$1,072$Š$1,072
1,2$1,069$3
Financial liabilities:Securities sold under agreements to repurchase1,574Š1,574
11,574Š
1 None of the Company's repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions met the right of setoff criteria for net balance sheet pre
sentation at December 31, 
2013 and 2012.2 Excludes $75 million and $29 million of Fed funds sold which are not subject to a master netting agreement at December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued119
NOTE 4 - TRADING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AND DERIVATIVES

The fair values of the components of trading assets and liabilities and derivatives at December 31 were as follows: (Dollars in millions)20132012Trading Assets and Derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities$219$111Federal agency securities426462U.S. states and political subdivisions6534MBS - agency323432CDO/CLO securities5755ABS636Corporate and other debt securities534567CP2928Equity securities109100Derivatives 1, 21,3842,083Trading loans 
31,8882,319Total trading assets and derivatives$5,040$6,227Trading Liabilities and Derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities$472$582Corporate and other debt securities179173Equity securities59Derivatives 1, 2525412Total trading liabilities and derivatives$1,181$1,1761 Certain derivative assets of $37 million and derivative liabilities of $49 million are presented in trading assets and derivati
ves and trading liabilities and 
derivatives, respectively, at December 31, 2013. Previously, these derivative assets and liabilities were presented in other as
sets and other liabilities, 
respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For comparative purposes, $178 million of derivative assets and $15 million o
f derivative liabilities have 
been reclassified to trading assets and derivatives and trading liabilities and derivatives, respectively, at December 31, 2012
.2 Amounts include the impact of offsetting cash collateral received from and paid to the same derivative counterparties and the i
mpact of netting derivative assets and derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement exists.3 Includes loans related to TRS. 
Various trading products and derivative instruments are used as part of the Company™s overall balance sheet management 

strategies and to support client requirements executed through the Bank and/or its broker/dealer subsidiary. The Company 

manages the potential market volatility associated with the trading instruments that are utilized for balance sheet management 

with appropriate risk management strategies. The size, volume, and nature of the trading products and derivative instruments 

can vary based on economic, client specific, and Company specific asset or liability conditions. Product offerings to clients 

include debt securities, loans traded in the secondary market, equity securities, derivative and foreign exchange contracts, an
d similar financial instruments. Other trading-related activities include acting as a market maker in certain debt and equity 

securities and related derivatives. The Company also uses end user derivatives to manage interest rate and market risk from 

non-trading activities. The Company has policies and procedures to manage market risk associated with client trading activities
 as well as non-trading activities and assumes a limited degree of market risk by managing the size and nature of its exposure. 

The Company has pledged $731 million and $727 million of certain trading securities to secure $717 million and $703 million 

of repurchase agreements at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Additionally, the Company has pledged $97 million 

and $86 million of certain trading securities to secure certain derivative agreements at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued120NOTE 5 Œ SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE

Securities Portfolio Composition December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)AmortizedCostUnrealizedGainsUnrealizedLossesFairValueU.S. Treasury securities$1,334$6$47$1,293
Federal agency securities1,0281357984
U.S. states and political subdivisions23272237
MBS - agency18,91542142518,911
MBS - private15512154
ABS782179
Corporate and other debt securities393Š42
Other equity securities18411Š842
Total securities AFS$22,622$454$534$22,542
 December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)AmortizedCostUnrealizedGainsUnrealizedLossesFairValueU.S. Treasury securities$212$10$Š$222
Federal agency securities1,9878532,069
U.S. states and political subdivisions310155320
MBS - agency17,416756318,169
MBS - private2054Š209
ABS21453216
Corporate and other debt securities424Š46
Other equity securities17011Š702
Total securities AFS$21,087$880$14$21,953
1 At December 31, 2013, other equity securities was comprised of the following: $336 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock, $402 milli
on in Federal Reserve 
Bank stock, $103 million in mutual fund investments, and $1 million of other. At December 31, 2012, other equity securities was
 comprised of the following: 
$229 million in FHLB of Atlanta stock, $402 million in Federal Reserve Bank stock, $69 million in mutual fund investments, and 
$2 million of other.
The following table presents interest and dividends on securities AFS:
 Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Taxable interest$537$579$688
Tax-exempt interest101521
Dividends1326182
Total interest and dividends$579$655$791
1 Includes dividends on the Coke common stock of $31 million and $56 million, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, res
pectively.
Securities AFS that were pledged to secure public deposits, repurchase agreements, trusts, and other funds had a fair value of 

$11.0 billion and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, there were no 

securities AFS pledged under secured borrowing arrangements under which the secured party has possession of the collateral 

and would customarily sell or repledge that collateral, other than in an event of default of the Company. 

During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company accelerated the termination of the Agreements that hedged the Coke 

common stock, and the Company sold, in the market or to the Coke Counterparty, 59 million of its 60 million shares of Coke 

and contributed the remaining 1 million shares of Coke to the SunTrust Foundation for a net gain of $1.9 billion. The $38 

million contribution to the SunTrust Foundation was recognized in noninterest expense. Details of the transactions are discusse
d in Note 16, "Derivative Financial Instruments." Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued121The amortized cost and fair value of investments in debt securities at December 31, 2013, by estimated average life, are shown 

below. Actual cash flows may differ from estimated average lives and contractual maturities because borrowers may have the 

right to call or prepay obligations with or without penalties.Distribution of Maturities(Dollars in millions)1 Year
or Less
1-5Years
5-10Years
After 10
Years
TotalAmortized Cost:U.S. Treasury securities$1$645$688$Š$1,334
Federal agency securities512615661501,028
U.S. states and political subdivisions102662143232
MBS - agency1,5755,7807,8003,76018,915
MBS - privateŠ155ŠŠ155
ABS58182Š78
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ2217Š39
Total debt securities$1,787$6,947$9,094$3,953$21,781
Fair Value:U.S. Treasury securities$1$647$645$Š$1,293
Federal agency securities51271518144984
U.S. states and political subdivisions104702142237
MBS - agency1,6655,9697,7563,52118,911
MBS - privateŠ154ŠŠ154
ABS57202Š79
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ2517Š42
Total debt securities$1,878$7,156$8,959$3,707$21,700
 Weighted average yield
12.95%2.72%2.83%2.85%2.81%
1Average yields are based on amortized cost and presented on a FTE basis.
Securities in an Unrealized Loss Position
The Company held certain investment securities where amortized cost exceeded fair market value, resulting in unrealized loss 

positions. Market changes in interest rates and credit spreads may result in temporary unrealized losses as the market price 

of securities fluctuates. At December 31, 2013, the Company did not intend to sell these securities nor was it more-likely-

than-not that the Company would be required to sell these securities before their anticipated recovery or maturity. The Company
 has reviewed its portfolio for OTTI in accordance with the accounting policies in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies."
December 31, 2013 Less than twelve monthsTwelve months or longerTotal
(Dollars in millions)FairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealized  LossesTemporarily impaired securities:U.S. Treasury securities$1,036$47$Š$Š$1,036$47
Federal agency securities398292642866257
U.S. states and political subdivisions12Š202322
MBS - agency9,173358618679,791425
ABSŠŠ131131
Total temporarily impaired securities10,6194349159811,534532
OTTI securities1:MBS - private1052ŠŠ1052
Total OTTI securities1052ŠŠ1052
Total impaired securities$10,724$436$915$98$11,639$534
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued122 December 31, 2012 Less than twelve monthsTwelve months or longerTotal
(Dollars in millions)Fair   Value   
UnrealizedLossesFairValue
UnrealizedLossesFairValue
UnrealizedLossesTemporarily impaired securities:Federal agency securities$298$3$Š$Š$298$3

U.S. states and political subdivisions1Š245255

MBS - agency1,2123ŠŠ1,2123

ABSŠŠ132132
Total temporarily impaired securities1,51163771,54813
OTTI securities1:ABSŠŠ3131
Total OTTI securitiesŠŠ3131
Total impaired securities$1,511$6$40$8$1,551$14
1Includes OTTI securities for which credit losses have been recorded in earnings in current or prior periods.Unrealized losses on securities that have been in a temporarily impaired position for longer than twelve months included 

municipal ARS, federal agency securities, agency MBS, and one ABS collateralized by 2004 vintage home equity loans. The 

municipal securities are backed by investment grade rated obligors; however, the fair value of these securities continues to 

be impacted by the lack of a functioning ARS market and the extension of time for expected refinance and repayment. No 

credit loss is expected on these securities. The fair value of federal agency and agency MBS securities has declined due to the
 increase in market interest rates. The ABS continues to receive timely principal and interest payments, and is evaluated quarte
rly for credit impairment. Cash flow analysis shows that the underlying collateral can withstand highly stressed loss assumptions 

without incurring a credit loss.
The portion of unrealized losses on securities that have been OTTI that relates to factors other than credit is recorded in AOC
I. Losses related to credit impairment on these securities are determined through estimated cash flow analyses and have been 

recorded in earnings in current or prior periods. The unrealized OTTI loss at December 31, 2013 is related to one security 

within the portfolio that is collateralized by residential mortgage loans securitized in 2007.
Realized Gains and Losses and Other-than-Temporarily Impaired Securities
 Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Gross realized gains$39$1,9811$210Gross realized losses(36)Š(87)
OTTI(1)(7)(6)
Net securities gains$2$1,974$117
1 Included in this amount is $305 million in losses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2012 related to the termination of the Agreements that 
hedged the Coke common stock.Credit impairment that is determined through the use of  models is estimated using cash flows on security specific collateral 
and the transaction structure. Future expected credit losses are determined by using various assumptions, the most significant 

of which include default rates, prepayment rates, and loss severities. If, based on this analysis, the security is in an unreal
ized loss position and the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, the expected cash 

flows are then discounted at the security™s initial effective interest rate to arrive at a present value amount. OTTI credit lo
sses reflect the difference between the present value of cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of these 

securities. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, all OTTI recognized in earnings related to private 

MBS that have underlying collateral of residential mortgage loans securitized in 2007 or ABS collateralized by 2004 vintage 

home equity loans.
The Company continues to reduce existing exposure primarily through paydowns. In certain instances, the amount of 

impairment losses recognized in earnings includes credit losses on debt securities that exceeds the total unrealized losses, an
d as a result, the securities may have unrealized gains in AOCI relating to factors other than credit.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued123The securities that gave rise to credit impairments recognized during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, as 

shown in the table below, consisted of private MBS and ABS with a fair value of approximately $22 million, $209 million, 

and $167 million, respectively.
Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
OTTI1$Š$1$2
Portion of gains/(losses) recognized in OCI (before taxes)164Net impairment losses recognized in earnings$1$7$6
1 The initial OTTI amount represents the excess of the amortized cost over the fair value of AFS debt securities. For subsequent 
impairments of the same 
security, amount includes additional declines in the fair value subsequent to the previously recorded OTTI, if applicable, unti
l such time the security is no 
longer in an unrealized loss position.The following is a rollforward of credit losses recognized in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, 

related to securities for which the Company does not intend to sell and it is not more-likely-than-not that the Company will 

be required to sell as of the end of each period presented. Subsequent credit losses may be recorded on securities without a 

corresponding further decline in fair value when there has been a decline in expected cash flows.Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Balance, beginning of period$31$25$20
Additions:OTTI credit losses on previously impaired securities176Reductions:Credit impaired securities sold, matured, or written off(6)ŠŠIncreases in expected cash flows recognized over the remaining life of the securities(1)(1)(1)
Balance, end of period$25$31$25
The following table presents a summary of the significant inputs used in determining the measurement of credit losses 

recognized in earnings for private MBS and ABS for the year ended December 31:
 2013 20122011
Default rate2 - 9% 2 - 9%4 - 8%
Prepayment rate7 - 21% 7 - 21%12 - 22%
Loss severity46 - 74% 40 - 56%39 - 46%
Assumption ranges represent the lowest and highest lifetime average estimates of each security for which credit losses were 
recognized in earnings. Ranges may vary from period to period as the securities for which credit losses are recognized vary.  

Additionally, severity may vary widely when losses are few and large.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued124NOTE 6 - LOANS
Composition of Loan Portfolio
The composition of the Company's loan portfolio is shown in the following table at December 31:  (Dollars in millions)20132012Commercial loans:C&I$57,974$54,048CRE5,4814,127Commercial construction855713Total commercial loans64,31058,888Residential loans:Residential mortgages - guaranteed3,4164,252Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed 124,41223,389Home equity products14,80914,805Residential construction553753Total residential loans43,19043,199Consumer loans:Guaranteed student loans5,5455,357Other direct2,8292,396Indirect11,27210,998Credit cards731632Total consumer loans20,37719,383LHFI 2$127,877$121,470LHFS$1,699$3,3991 Includes $302 million and $379 million of loans carried at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
2 Loans are presented net of unearned income, unamortized discounts and premiums, and net deferred loan costs of $739 million an
d $805 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company transferred $280 million and $3.7 billion in LHFI to LHFS, 

and $43 million and $71 million in LHFS to LHFI, respectively. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 

2012, the Company sold $807 million and $4.8 billion in loans and leases for a gain of $1 million and a loss of $3 million, 

respectively.

Credit Quality Evaluation
The Company evaluates the credit quality of its loan portfolio by employing a dual internal risk rating system, which assigns 

both PD and LGD ratings to derive expected losses. Assignment of PD and LGD ratings are predicated upon numerous factors, 

including consumer credit risk scores, rating agency information, borrower/guarantor financial capacity, LTV ratios, collateral
 type, debt service coverage ratios, collection experience, other internal metrics/analysis, and qualitative assessments.
For the commercial portfolio, the Company believes that the most appropriate credit quality indicator is an individual loan™s r
isk assessment expressed according to the broad regulatory agency classifications of Pass or Criticized. The Company's risk rating 

system is granular, with multiple risk ratings in both the Pass and Criticized categories. Pass ratings reflect relatively low 
PDs; whereas, criticized assets have a higher PD. The granularity in Pass ratings assists in the establishment of pricing, loan stru
ctures, approval requirements, reserves, and ongoing credit management requirements. The Company conforms to the following 

regulatory classifications for Criticized assets: Other Assets Especially Mentioned (or Special Mention), Adversely Classified,
 Doubtful, and Loss. However, for the purposes of disclosure, management believes the most meaningful distinction within the 

Criticized categories is between Accruing Criticized (which includes Special Mention and a portion of Adversely Classified) and
 Nonaccruing Criticized (which includes a portion of Adversely Classified and Doubtful and Loss). This distinction identifies 

those relatively higher risk loans for which there is a basis to believe that the Company will collect all amounts due from tho
se where full collection is less certain.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued125Risk ratings are refreshed at least annually, or more frequently as appropriate, based upon considerations such as market condi
tions, loan characteristics, and portfolio trends. Additionally, management routinely reviews portfolio risk ratings, trends, and 

concentrations to support risk identification and mitigation activities. 
For consumer and residential loans, the Company monitors credit risk based on indicators such as delinquencies and FICO scores.
 The Company believes that consumer credit risk, as assessed by the industry-wide FICO scoring method, is a relevant credit 

quality indicator. Borrower-specific FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of the Company™s formal underwriting proce
ss, and refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company at least quarterly. 

For government-guaranteed loans, the Company monitors the credit quality based primarily on delinquency status, as it is a more
 relevant indicator of credit quality due to the government guarantee. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, 81% and 89%, respectively,
 of the guaranteed student loan portfolio was current with respect to payments. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, 82% and 83%, 

respectively, of the guaranteed residential loan portfolio was current with respect to payments. Loss exposure to the Company 

on these loans is mitigated by the government guarantee.
LHFI by credit quality indicator are shown in the tables below at December 31: Commercial Loans C&ICRECommercial construction
(Dollars in millions)201320122013201220132012Credit rating:Pass$56,443$52,292$5,245$3,564$798$506Criticized accruing1,3351,56219749745173Criticized nonaccruing19619439661234Total$57,974$54,048$5,481$4,127$855$713Residential Loans 1 Residential mortgages -nonguaranteedHome equity productsResidential construction
(Dollars in millions)201320122013201220132012Current FICO score range:700 and above$19,100$17,410$11,661$11,339$423$561620 - 6993,6523,8502,1862,29790123Below 62021,6602,1299621,1694069Total$24,412$23,389$14,809$14,805$553$753Consumer Loans 
3 Other directIndirectCredit cards
(Dollars in millions)201320122013201220132012Current FICO score range:700 and above$2,370$1,980$8,420$8,300$512$435620 - 6993973502,2282,038176152Below 620262666246604345Total$2,829$2,396$11,272$10,998$731$6321 Excludes $3.4 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of guaranteed residential loans. At Decembe
r 31, 2013 and 2012, the majority of these loans had FICO scores of 700 and above.2 For substantially all loans with refreshed FICO scores below 620, the borrower™s FICO score at the time of origination exceeded
 620 but has since deteriorated 
as the loan has seasoned.3 Excludes $5.5 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of guaranteed student loans.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued126The payment status for the LHFI portfolio is shown in the tables below: December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)AccruingCurrent
Accruing30-89 DaysPast DueAccruing90+ DaysPast Due Nonaccruing 2TotalCommercial loans:C&I$57,713$47$18$196$57,974
CRE5,43057395,481
Commercial construction8421Š12855
Total commercial loans63,985532524764,310
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - guaranteed2,78758571Š3,416
Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed123,8081501344124,412
Home equity products14,480119Š21014,809
Residential construction4884Š61553
Total residential loans41,56333158471243,190
Consumer loans:Guaranteed student loans4,475461609Š5,545
Other direct2,80318352,829
Indirect11,189751711,272
Credit cards71876Š731
Total consumer loans19,1855616191220,377
Total LHFI$124,733$945$1,228$971$127,877
1 Includes $302 million of loans carried at fair value, the majority of which were accruing current.2 Nonaccruing loans past due 90 days or more totaled $653 million. Nonaccruing loans past due fewer than 90 days include modified
 nonaccrual loans reported 
as TDRs and performing second lien loans which are classified as nonaccrual when the first lien loan is nonperforming. 
 December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)AccruingCurrentAccruing30-89 DaysPast DueAccruing90+ DaysPast Due Nonaccruing 
2TotalCommercial loans:C&I$53,747$81$26$194$54,048

CRE4,05011Š664,127

Commercial construction679ŠŠ34713
Total commercial loans58,476922629458,888
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - guaranteed3,52339690Š4,252

Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed122,4011922177523,389
Home equity products14,314149134114,805

Residential construction625151112753
Total residential loans40,8633957131,22843,199
Consumer loans:Guaranteed student loans4,76955632Š5,357

Other direct2,37215362,396

Indirect10,9096821910,998

Credit cards61976Š632
Total consumer loans18,669646432519,383
Total LHFI$118,008$1,133$782$1,547$121,470
1 Includes $379 million of loans carried at fair value, the majority of which were accruing current.2 Nonaccruing loans past due 90 days or more totaled $975 million. Nonaccruing loans past due fewer than 90 days include modified
 nonaccrual loans reported 
as TDRs and performing second lien loans which are classified as nonaccrual when the first lien loan is nonperforming.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued127Impaired Loans
A loan is considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due, including princip
al and interest, according to the contractual terms of the agreement. Commercial nonaccrual loans greater than $3 million and cert
ain consumer, residential, and commercial loans whose terms have been modified in a TDR are individually evaluated for impairment. 

Smaller-balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment are not included in the following tables. 

Additionally, the tables below exclude guaranteed student loans and guaranteed residential mortgages for which there was nomina
l risk of principal loss. December 31, 2013December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)UnpaidPrincipalBalanceAmortized   Cost1RelatedAllowanceUnpaidPrincipalBalanceAmortized   Cost1RelatedAllowanceImpaired loans with no related allowance recorded:Commercial loans:C&I$81$56$Š
$59$40$Š
CRE6160Š
65Š
Commercial constructionŠŠŠ
4545Š
Total commercial loans142116Š
11090Š
Impaired loans with an allowance recorded:Commercial loans:C&I514910
46386
CRE83Š
1571
Commercial construction63Š
53Š
Total commercial loans655510
66487
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed2,3572,051226
2,3462,046234
Home equity products71063896
66161288
Residential construction24118923
25920126
Total residential loans3,3082,878345
3,2662,859348
Consumer loans:Other direct1414Š
14142
Indirect83835
46462
Credit cards13133
21215
Total consumer loans1101108
81819
Total impaired loans$3,625$3,159$363
$3,523$3,078$364
1 Amortized cost reflects charge-offs that have been recognized plus other amounts that have been applied to reduce the net book 
balance.Included in the impaired loan balances above were $2.7 billion and $2.4 billion of accruing TDRs, at amortized cost, at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of which 96% and 95% were current, respectively. See Note 1, ﬁSignificant Accounting 

Policies,ﬂ for further information regarding the Company™s loan impairment policy.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued128Year Ended December 31201320122011
(Dollars in millions)Average
Amortized CostInterest
IncomeRecognized1Average
Amortized CostInterest
IncomeRecognized1Average
Amortized CostInterest
IncomeRecognized1Impaired loans with no related allowance recorded:Commercial loans:C&I$75$1
$48$1$109$3
CRE602
9Š561
Commercial constructionŠŠ451471
Total commercial loans1353
10222125
Impaired loans with an allowance recorded:Commercial loans:C&I451
511681
CRE3Š9Š1032
Commercial construction5Š4Š1212
Total commercial loans531
6412925
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed2,02594
2,063832,45188
Home equity products64923
6272652823
Residential construction19311
209102298
Total residential loans2,867128
2,8991193,208119
Consumer loans:Other direct151
151131
Indirect894
502ŠŠ
Credit cards161
242262
Total consumer loans1206
895393
Total impaired loans$3,175$138
$3,154$127$3,751$132
1 Of the interest income recognized during the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, cash basis interest income was $10 m
illion, $18 million, and $25 million, respectively.
NPAs are shown in the following table at December 31:
(Dollars in millions)20132012Nonaccrual/NPLs:Commercial loans:C&I$196$194CRE3966Commercial construction1234Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed441775Home equity products210341Residential construction61112Consumer loans:Other direct56Indirect719Total nonaccrual/NPLs
29711,547OREO1170264Other repossessed assets79Nonperforming LHFS1737Total NPAs$1,165$1,857 1 Does not include foreclosed real estate related to loans insured by the FHA or the VA. Proceeds due from the FHA and the VA are
 recorded as a receivable in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets until the funds are received and the property is conveyed. The receivable amoun
t related to proceeds due from 
the FHA or the VA totaled $88 million and $140 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
2 Nonaccruing restructured loans are included in total nonaccrual/NPLs.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued129Restructured Loans
TDRs are loans in which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and the Company has granted an economic concession 

to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. When loans are modified under the terms of a TDR, the Company typically 

offers the borrower an extension of the loan maturity date and/or a reduction in the original contractual interest rate. In cer
tain situations, the Company may offer to restructure a loan in a manner that ultimately results in the forgiveness of contractually
 specified principal balances.
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had $8 million and $1 million, respectively, in commitments to lend additional 

funds to debtors whose terms have been modified in a TDR. 

The number and amortized cost of loans modified under the terms of a TDR during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 

and 2011, by type of modification, are shown in the following tables:
20131(Dollars in millions)Number ofLoansModifiedPrincipal Forgiveness 2Rate Modification 3Term Extensionand/or OtherConcessionsTotalCommercial loans:C&I152$18$2$105$125
CRE6Š314
Commercial construction1ŠŠŠŠ
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed1,584116694261
Home equity products2,630Š7175146
Residential construction259Š24327
Consumer loans:Other direct140Š134
Indirect3,409ŠŠ6565
Credit cards593Š3Š3
Total TDRs8,774$19$270$346$635
1 Includes loans modified under the terms of a TDR that were charged-off during the period.
2 Restructured loans which had forgiveness of amounts contractually due under the terms of the loan typically have had multiple c
oncessions including rate 
modifications and/or term extensions. The total amount of charge-offs associated with principal forgiveness during the year end
ed December 31, 2013 was $2 
million.3 Restructured loans which had a modification of the loan's contractual interest rate may also have had an extension of the loan's contractual maturity date and/or other concessions. The financial effect of modifying the interest rate on the loans modified as a TDR was immaterial to the 
financial statements during the 
year ended December 31, 2013.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued13020121(Dollars in millions)Number ofLoansModifiedPrincipal Forgiveness 
2Rate Modification 3Term Extension 
and/or Other Concessions 4TotalCommercial loans:C&I358$5$4$23$32

CRE33207633

Commercial construction164Š1418
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed2,804Š72125197

Home equity products3,790Š11091201

Residential construction564Š17374
Consumer loans:Other direct127ŠŠ44

Indirect2,803ŠŠ4949

Credit cards1,421Š8Š8
Total TDRs11,916$29$202$385$616
1 Includes loans modified under the terms of a TDR that were charged-off during the period.
2 Restructured loans which had forgiveness of amounts contractually due under the terms of the loan typically have had multiple c
oncessions including rate 
modifications and/or term extensions. The total amount of charge-offs associated with principal forgiveness during the year end
ed December 31, 2012, was $9 
million.3 Restructured loans which had a modification of the loan's contractual interest rate may also have had an extension of the loan's contractual maturity date and/or other concessions. The financial effect of modifying the interest rate on the loans modified as a TDR was immaterial to the 
financial statements during the 
year ended December 31, 2012.4 4,231 of the residential loans, with an amortized cost of $201 million at December 31, 2012, relate to loans discharged in Chap
ter 7 bankruptcy that were 
reclassified as TDRs during 2012.
2011
1(Dollars in millions)Number ofLoansModifiedPrincipal Forgiveness 
2Rate Modification 3Term Extensionand/or OtherConcessionsTotalCommercial loans:C&I510$28$45$55$128

CRE4340262288

Commercial construction10238897143
Residential loans:Residential mortgages - nonguaranteed967Š23316249

Home equity products1,737Š1346140

Residential construction367Š173653
Consumer loans:Other direct78Š134

Credit cards2,468Š14Š14
Total TDRs6,272$106$478$235$819
1 Includes loans modified under the terms of a TDR that were charged-off during the period.
2 Restructured loans which had forgiveness of amounts contractually due under the terms of the loan typically have had multiple c
oncessions including rate 
modifications and/or term extensions. The total amount of charge-offs associated with principal forgiveness during the year end
ed December 31, 2011, was 
$17 million.3 Restructured loans which had a modification of the loan's contractual interest rate may also have had an extension of the loan's contractual maturity date and/or other concessions. The financial effect of modifying the interest rate on the loans modified as a TDR was immaterial to the 
financial statements during the 
year ended December 31, 2011.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued131For the year ended December 31, 2013, the table below represents defaults on loans that were first modified between the periods
 January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2013, that became 90 days or more delinquent or were charged-off during 2013.
Year Ended December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)Number of LoansAmortized Cost
Commercial loans:C&I55$5
CRE53Commercial construction1ŠResidential loans:Residential mortgages28723
Home equity products18810
Residential construction483
Consumer loans:Other direct151
Indirect2072
Credit cards1691
Total TDRs975$48
For the year ended December 31, 2012, the table below represents defaults on loans that were first modified between the periods
 January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012, that became 90 days or more delinquent or were charged-off during 2012.
Year Ended December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)Number of LoansAmortized Cost
Commercial loans:C&I84$5
CRE95Commercial construction107
Residential loans:Residential mortgages14120
Home equity products16411
Residential construction243
Consumer loans:Other direct4ŠIndirect43Š
Credit cards2041
Total TDRs683$52
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued132For the year ended December 31, 2011, the table below represents defaults on loans that were first modified between the periods
 January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011, that became 90 days or more delinquent or were charged-off during 2011.
Year Ended December 31, 2011(Dollars in millions)Number of LoansAmortized Cost
Commercial loans:C&I71$14
CRE1422
Commercial construction3228
Residential loans:Residential mortgages455108
Home equity products22022
Residential construction337
Consumer loans:Other direct10Š
Credit cards4033
Total TDRs1,238$204
The majority of loans that were modified and subsequently became 90 days or more delinquent have remained on nonaccrual 

status since the time of modification.
Concentrations of Credit Risk
The Company does not have a significant concentration of risk to any individual client except for the U.S. government and its 

agencies. However, a geographic concentration arises because the Company operates primarily in the Southeastern and Mid-

Atlantic regions of the U.S. The Company engages in limited international banking activities. The Company™s total cross-border 

outstanding loans were $956 million and $562 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

The major concentrations of credit risk for the Company arise by collateral type in relation to loans and credit commitments. T
he only significant concentration that exists is in loans secured by residential real estate. At December 31, 2013, the Company ow
ned $43.2 billion in residential loans, representing 34% of total LHFI, and had $11.2 billion in commitments to extend credit on ho
me equity lines and $2.7 billion in mortgage loan commitments. Of the residential loans owned at December 31, 2013, 8% were 

guaranteed by a federal agency or a GSE. At December 31, 2012, the Company owned $43.2 billion in residential loans, 

representing 36% of total LHFI, and had $11.7 billion in commitments to extend credit on home equity lines and $9.2 billion in 

mortgage loan commitments. Of the residential loans owned at December 31, 2012, 10% were guaranteed by a federal agency 

or a GSE.
Included in the residential mortgage portfolio were $12.4 billion and $13.7 billion of mortgage loans at December 31, 2013 and 

2012, respectively, that included terms such as an interest only feature, a high original LTV ratio, or a second lien position 
that may increase the Company™s exposure to credit risk and result in a concentration of credit risk. Of these mortgage loans, $5.5 

billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, were interest only loans, primarily with a ten year interest only period. Approximately
 $1.1 
billion of those interest only loans at December 31, 2013, and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012, were loans with no mortgage 
insurance and were either first liens with combined original LTV ratios in excess of 80% or were second liens. Additionally, th
e Company owned approximately $6.9 billion and $6.1 billion of amortizing loans with no mortgage insurance at December 31, 

2013 and 2012, respectively, comprised of first liens with combined original LTV ratios in excess of 80% and second liens. 

Despite changes in underwriting guidelines that have curtailed the origination of high LTV loans, the balances of such loans ha
ve increased due to lending to high credit quality clients.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued133NOTE 7 - ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 

The allowance for credit losses consists of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. Activity in the allowance 

for credit losses for the years ended December 31 is summarized in the table below:(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Balance at beginning of period$2,219$2,505$3,032
Provision for loan losses5481,3981,523
Provision/(benefit) for unfunded commitments5(3)(10)Loan charge-offs(869)(1,907)(2,241)Loan recoveries191226201
Balance at end of period$2,094$2,219$2,505
Components:ALLL$2,044$2,174$2,457
Unfunded commitments reserve1504548
Allowance for credit losses$2,094$2,219$2,505
1 The unfunded commitments reserve is recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.Activity in the ALLL by segment for the years ended December 31 is presented in the tables below:
2013(Dollars in millions)CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal
Balance at beginning of period$902$1,131$141$2,174
Provision for loan losses197243108548
Loan charge-offs(219)(531)(119)(869)
Loan recoveries668738191
Balance at end of period$946$930$168$2,044
2012(Dollars in millions)CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal
Balance at beginning of period$964$1,354$139$2,457
Provision for loan losses2411,062951,398
Loan charge-offs(457)(1,316)(134)(1,907)
Loan recoveries1543141226
Balance at end of period$902$1,131$141$2,174
As discussed in Note 1, ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies,ﬂ the ALLL is composed of both specific allowances for certain 

nonaccrual loans and TDRs and general allowances grouped into loan pools based on similar characteristics. No allowance 

is required for loans carried at fair value. Additionally, the Company records an immaterial allowance for loan products that 

are guaranteed by government agencies, as there is nominal risk of principal loss. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued134The Company™s LHFI portfolio and related ALLL is shown in the tables below:
 December 31, 2013 CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal
(Dollars in millions)CarryingValue
AssociatedALLLCarryingValue
AssociatedALLLCarryingValue
AssociatedALLLCarryingValue
AssociatedALLLIndividually evaluated$171$10$2,878$345$110$8$3,159$363
Collectively evaluated64,13993640,01058520,267160124,4161,681
Total evaluated64,31094642,88893020,377168127,5752,044
LHFI at fair valueŠŠ302ŠŠŠ302Š
Total LHFI$64,310$946$43,190$930$20,377$168$127,877$2,044
 December 31, 2012

 CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal
(Dollars in millions)CarryingValue
AssociatedALLLCarryingValue
AssociatedALLLCarryingValue
AssociatedALLLCarryingValue
AssociatedALLLIndividually evaluated$138$7$2,859$348$81$9$3,078$364
Collectively evaluated58,75089539,96178319,302132118,0131,810
Total evaluated58,88890242,8201,13119,383141121,0912,174
LHFI at fair valueŠŠ379ŠŠŠ379Š
Total LHFI$58,888$902$43,199$1,131$19,383$141$121,470$2,174
NOTE 8 - PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:(Dollars in millions)Useful Life20132012LandIndefinite
$345$349Buildings and improvements2 - 40 years
1,0451,041Leasehold improvements1 - 30 years
609622Furniture and equipment1 - 20 years
1,3991,357Construction in progress206111Total premises and equipment3,6043,480Less:  Accumulated depreciation and amortization2,0391,916Premises and equipment, net$1,565$1,564The carrying amounts of premises and equipment subject to mortgage indebtedness (included in long-term debt) were 

immaterial at December 31, 2013 and 2012. Net premises and equipment included $5 million and $6 million related to capital 

leases at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Aggregate rent expense (principally for offices), including contingent 

rent expense and sublease income, totaled $220 million, $228 million, and $225 million for the years ended December 31, 

2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 

and 2011 totaled $185 million, $188 million, and $181 million, respectively.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued135Various Company facilities are leased under both capital and noncancelable operating leases with initial remaining terms in 

excess of one year. Minimum payments, by year and in aggregate, at December 31, 2013, were as follows:
(Dollars in millions)OperatingLeasesCapitalLeases2014$208$2

20151962

20161902

20171712

2018912

Thereafter3543
Total minimum lease payments$1,21013
Less:  Amounts representing interest3
Present value of net minimum lease payments$10
NOTE 9 Œ GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill
Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis, which is performed by the Company during the third 

quarter, or as events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit 

below its carrying amount or indicate that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists when the carrying amoun
t of a reporting unit is zero or negative. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by using discounted cash flow analy
ses and, when applicable, guideline company information. When the reporting unit is not a legal entity with a stand-alone equity 

balance, the carrying value of the reporting unit is determined using an equity allocation methodology that allocates the total
 equity of the Company to each of its reporting units considering both regulatory risk-based capital and tangible assets relativ
e to tangible equity. See Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies," for further information regarding the Company's goodwill 

accounting policy. The Company performed a goodwill impairment analysis for all of its reporting units with goodwill balances 

at September 30, 2013 and determined that the fair values were in excess of the respective carrying values by the following 

percentages:Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management 56% 

Wholesale Banking 14% 

RidgeWorth Capital Management  141% 
The Company monitored events and circumstances during the fourth quarter of 2013 and did not observe any factors that 

would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its respective carrying value. During the second 

quarter of 2013, branch-managed business banking clients were transferred from Wholesale Banking to Consumer Banking 

and Private Wealth Management, resulting in the reallocation of $300 million in goodwill.
 Additionally, during the first quarter 
of 2012, the Company reorganized its segment reporting structure and goodwill reporting units. For additional information 

on the Company's segment reporting structure, see Note 20, "Business Segment Reporting." Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued136The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows:(Dollars in millions)RetailBankingDiversifiedCommercialBankingCIBW&IM
ConsumerBanking andPrivateWealthManagementWholesaleBankingTotal
Balance, January 1, 2013$Š$Š$Š$Š$3,962$2,407$6,369

Intersegment transfersŠŠŠŠ300(300)Š
Balance, December 31, 2013$Š$Š$Š$Š$4,262$2,107$6,369

Balance, January 1, 2012$4,854$928$180$382$Š$Š$6,344

Intersegment transfers(4,854)(928)(180)(382)3,9302,414Š

Acquisition of FirstAgain, LLCŠŠŠŠ32Š32

Impairment of GenSpringŠŠŠŠŠ(7)(7)

Balance, December 31, 2012$Š$Š$Š$Š$3,962$2,407$6,369
Other Intangible Assets

Changes in the carrying amounts of other intangible assets for the years ended December 31 are as follows:(Dollars in millions)Core DepositIntangibles MSRs -Fair ValueOtherTotal
Balance, January 1, 2013$17$899$40$956

Amortization(13)Š(10)(23)
MSRs originatedŠ352Š352
Changes in fair value:Due to changes in inputs and assumptions 1Š302Š302
Other changes in fair value 2Š(252)Š(252)
Sale of MSRsŠ(1)Š(1)
Balance, December 31, 2013$4$1,300$30$1,334

Balance, January 1, 2012$38$921$58$1,017

Amortization(21)Š(18)(39)

MSRs originatedŠ336Š336

Changes in fair value:Due to changes in inputs and assumptions 1Š(112)Š(112)
Other changes in fair value 2Š(241)Š(241)
Sale of MSRsŠ(5)Š(5)

Balance, December 31, 2012$17$899$40$956
1 Primarily reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, due to changes in interest rates.2 Represents changes due to the collection of expected cash flows, net of accretion, due to the passage of time.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued137The estimated future amortization expense for intangible assets is as follows:(Dollars in millions)Core DepositIntangiblesOtherTotal
2014$4$7$11
2015Š552016Š222017Š222018Š22ThereafterŠ33
Total 
1$4$21$25
1 Estimated future amortization expense is less than the intangible asset balance at December 31, 2013, due to the anticipated sa
le of RidgeWorth, including 
its intangible assets, in 2014. See additional discussion of the planned sale in Note 20, ﬁBusiness Segment Reporting.ﬂ Mortgage Servicing Rights
The Company retains MSRs from certain of its sales or securitizations of residential mortgage loans. MSRs on residential 

mortgage loans are the only servicing assets capitalized by the Company and are classified within intangible assets on the 

Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Income earned by the Company on its MSRs is derived primarily from contractually specified mortgage servicing fees and 

late fees, net of curtailment costs. Such income earned for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 was $317 

million, $333 million, and $364 million, respectively. These amounts are reported in mortgage servicing related income in 

the Consolidated Statements of Income.
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the total UPB of mortgage loans serviced was $136.7 billion and $144.9 billion, respectively. 

Included in these amounts were $106.8 billion and $113.2 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of loans 

serviced for third parties. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company sold MSRs, at a price 

approximating their fair value, on residential loans with a UPB of $2.8 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.

At the end of each quarter, the Company determines the fair value of the MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the 

present value of the estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates a number of assumptions as MSRs do not 

trade in an active and open market with readily observable prices. The Company determines fair value using market based 

prepayment rates, discount rates, and other assumptions that are compared to various sources of market data including 

independent third party valuations and industry surveys. Senior management and the STM valuation committee review all 

significant assumptions quarterly since many factors can affect the fair value of MSRs. Changes to the valuation model inputs 

and assumptions are reflected in the periods' results.
A summary of the key characteristics, inputs, and economic assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the Company™s 

MSRs at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the sensitivity of the fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in 
those assumptions are shown in the table below. The overall change in MSRs during the year ended December 31, 2013 was 

primarily due to originations and an increase in prevailing interest rates during the period.
 (Dollars in millions)December 31, 2013December 31, 2012Fair value of retained MSRs$1,300$899Prepayment rate assumption (annual)8%16%Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change$38$50Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change7495Discount rate (annual)12%11%Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change$66$37Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change12670Weighted-average life (in years)7.74.9Weighted-average coupon4.4%4.8%The above sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the amounts indicate, changes in fair value based 

on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the 

change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair v
alue of the retained interest is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued138changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. Additionally, the sensitivities above do not include 

the effect of hedging activity undertaken by the Company to offset changes in the fair value of MSRs. See Note 16, ﬁDerivative 

Financial Instruments,ﬂ for further information regarding these hedging activities.
NOTE 10 - CERTAIN TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

Certain Transfers of Financial Assets and related Variable Interest Entities

The Company has transferred residential mortgage loans, student loans, commercial and corporate loans, and CDO securities 

in sale or securitization transactions in which the Company has, or had, continuing involvement. All such transfers have been 

accounted for as sales by the Company. The Company™s continuing involvement in such transfers includes owning certain 

beneficial interests, including senior and subordinate debt instruments, as well as equity interests, servicing or collateral 

manager responsibilities, and guarantee or recourse arrangements. Except as specifically noted herein, the Company is not 

required to provide additional financial support to any of the entities to which the Company has transferred financial assets, 

nor has the Company provided any support it was not otherwise obligated to provide. Upon completion of transfers of assets 

that satisfy the conditions to be reported as a sale, the Company derecognizes the transferred assets and recognizes at fair 

value any beneficial interests in the transferred financial assets, such as trading assets or securities AFS, as well as servic
ing rights retained and guarantee liabilities incurred. See Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement,ﬂ for further discussion 

of the Company™s fair value methodologies. No events occurred during the year ended December 31, 2013 that changed the 

Company™s sale accounting conclusion in regards to the residential mortgage loans, student loans, commercial and corporate 

loans, or CDO securities.
When evaluating transfers and other transactions with VIEs for consolidation, the Company first determines if it has a VI in 

the VIE. A VI is typically in the form of securities representing retained interests in the transferred assets and, at times, s
ervicing rights and collateral manager fees. If the Company has a VI in the entity, it then evaluates whether or not it has both (1) the
 power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE, and (2) the obligation to 

absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE to determine if the Company 

should consolidate the VIE.

Below is a summary of transfers of financial assets to VIEs for which the Company has retained some level of continuing 

involvement:Residential Mortgage Loans
The Company typically transfers first lien residential mortgage loans in conjunction with Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, 

and Freddie Mac securitization transactions whereby the loans are exchanged for cash or securities that are readily 

redeemable for cash proceeds and servicing rights. The Company sold residential mortgage loans to these entities, 

which resulted in pre-tax net gains of $186 million,  $1.0 billion, and $397 million, including servicing rights, for 

the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. These net gains are included within mortgage 

production related income/(loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These net gains include the change in 

value of the loans as a result of changes in interest rates from the time the related IRLCs were issued to the borrowers 

but do not include the results of hedging activities initiated by the Company to mitigate this market risk. See Note 

16, ﬁDerivative Financial Instruments,ﬂ for further discussion of the Company™s hedging activities. As seller, the 

Company has made certain representations and warranties with respect to the originally transferred loans, including 

those transferred under Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac programs, and those representations and warranties 

are discussed in Note 17, ﬁGuarantees.ﬂ
In a limited number of securitizations, the Company has received securities representing retained interests in the 

transferred loans in addition to cash and servicing rights in exchange for the transferred loans. The received securities 

are carried at fair value as either trading assets or securities AFS. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of 

securities received totaled $71 million and $98 million, respectively, and were valued using a third party pricing 

service.
The Company evaluated these securitization transactions for consolidation under the VIE consolidation guidance. 

As servicer of the underlying loans, the Company is generally deemed to have power over the securitization. However, 

if a single party, such as the issuer or the master servicer, effectively controls the servicing activities or has the 

unilateral ability to terminate the Company as servicer without cause, then that party is deemed to have power over 

the securitization. In almost all of its securitization transactions, the Company does not have power over the VIE as 

a result of these rights held by the master servicer. In certain transactions, the Company does have power as the 

servicer; however, the Company does not also have an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that 

could potentially be significant to the securitization. The absorption of losses and the receipt of benefits would 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued139generally manifest itself through the retention of senior or subordinated interests. Total assets at December 31, 2013 

and 2012, of the unconsolidated trusts in which the Company has a VI are $350 million and $445 million, respectively. 

The Company™s maximum exposure to loss related to the unconsolidated VIEs in which it holds a VI is comprised 

of the loss of value of any interests it retains and any repurchase obligations it incurs as a result of a breach of its 

representations and warranties, which is discussed in Note 17, ﬁGuarantees.ﬂ
Commercial and Corporate Loans

The Company has involvement with CLO entities that own commercial leveraged loans and bonds, certain of which 

were transferred by the Company to the CLOs. In addition to retaining certain securities issued by the CLOs, the 

Company also acts as collateral manager for these CLOs. The securities retained by the Company and the fees received 

as collateral manager represent a VI in the CLOs, which are considered to be VIEs. The Company has determined 

that it is the primary beneficiary of and, thus, has consolidated one of these CLOs as it has both the power to direct 
the activities that most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses 

and the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the CLO. The Company's 

involvement with the CLO includes receiving fees for its duties as collateral manager, including eligibility for 

performance fees, as well as ownership in one of the senior interests in the CLO and certain preference shares of the 

CLO. Substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the CLO are loans and issued debt, respectively. The loans are 

classified within LHFS at fair value and the debt is included within long-term debt at fair value on the Company™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets.  See Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election and Measurement,ﬂ for a discussion of the Company™s 

methodologies for estimating the fair values of these financial instruments. At December 31, 2013, the Company™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets reflected $261 million of loans held by the CLO and $256 million of debt issued by 

the CLO. At December 31, 2012, the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheets reflected $319 million of loans held 

by the CLO and $286 million of debt issued by the CLO. Although the Company consolidates the CLO, its creditors 

have no recourse to the general credit of the Company, as the liabilities of the CLO are paid only to the extent of 

available cash flows from the CLO™s assets.  

For the remaining CLOs, which are also considered to be VIEs, the Company has determined that it is not the primary 

beneficiary as it does not have an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entities that 

could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company's preference share exposure was valued at $3 million at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012. The Company™s only remaining involvement with these VIEs is through its collateral 

manager role. The Company receives fees for managing the assets of these vehicles; these fees are considered adequate 

compensation and are commensurate with the level of effort required to provide such services. The fees received by 

the Company from these entities are recorded as trust and investment management income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. Senior fees earned by the Company are generally not considered at risk; however, subordinate 

fees earned by the Company are subject to the availability of cash flows and to the priority of payments. At December 

31, 2013 and 2012, these VIEs had $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion of estimated assets, respectively, and $1.6 billion 

and $1.7 billion of estimated liabilities, respectively. 

Student Loans
During 2006, the Company completed a securitization of government-guaranteed student loans through a transfer of 

loans to a securitization SPE, which previously qualified as a QSPE, and retained the related residual interest in the 

SPE. The Company concluded that this securitization of government-guaranteed student loans (the ﬁStudent Loan 

entityﬂ) should be consolidated. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheets 

reflected $344 million and $384 million, respectively, of assets held by the Student Loan entity and $341 million and 

$380 million, respectively, of debt issued by the Student Loan entity.

Payments from the assets in the SPE must first be used to settle the obligations of the SPE, with any remaining 

payments remitted to the Company as the owner of the residual interest. To the extent that losses occur on the SPE™s 

assets, the SPE has recourse to the federal government as the guarantor up to a maximum guarantee amount of 97%. 

Losses in excess of the government guarantee reduce the amount of available cash payable to the Company as the 

owner of the residual interest. To the extent that losses result from a breach of the master servicer™s servicing 

responsibilities, the SPE has recourse to the Company; the SPE may require the Company to repurchase the loan 

from the SPE at par value. If the breach was caused by the subservicer, the Company has recourse to seek 

reimbursement from the subservicer up to the guaranteed amount. The Company™s maximum exposure to loss related 

to the SPE is represented by the potential losses resulting from a breach of servicing responsibilities. To date, all loss 

claims filed with the guarantor that have been denied due to servicing errors have either been cured or reimbursement 

has been provided to the Company by the subservicer. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued140CDO Securities
The Company has transferred bank trust preferred securities in securitization transactions. The Company's  maximum 

exposure to loss at December 31, 2013 and 2012, includes current senior interests held in trading securities, which 

have fair values of $54 million and $52 million, respectively.

As further discussed in Note 18, "Fair Value Election and Measurement," the Company valued these interests by 

constructing a pricing matrix of values based on a range of overcollateralization levels that are derived from discussions 

with the dealer community along with limited trade data. The primary inputs and assumptions considered by the 

Company in valuing these retained interests were overcollateralization levels (impacted by credit losses) and the 

discount margin over LIBOR. While all the underlying collateral is currently eligible for repayment by the obligor, 

given the nature of the collateral and the current repricing environment, the Company assumed no prepayment would 

occur before the final maturity, which is approximately 20 years on a weighted average basis. The expected discount 

margin over LIBOR ranged from 4.3% to 5.5% at December 31, 2013 based on discussion with the dealer community 

with limited trade data adjusted for specific deal factors. At December 31, 2013, a 10% and 20% adverse change in 

the assumed market yield results in declines of approximately $4 million and $7 million, respectively, in the fair 

value of these securities. In evaluating  the impact of credit losses, consideration was given to the underlying collateral 

of the VIEs, which is highly concentrated, and as a result, the default or deferral of certain large exposures adversely 

impacts the value of the interests. The Company estimates that if each of the VIEs in which the Company holds 

retained positions experienced three additional large deferrals or defaults, it should not have a significant impact on 

the fair value of the retained securities.   
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the total assets of the trust preferred CDO entities in which the Company has 

remaining exposure to loss were $816 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The Company determined that it was 

not the primary beneficiary of any of these VIEs as the Company lacks the power to direct the significant activities 

of any of the VIEs. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, the Company sold all interests in these VIEs.
The following tables present certain information for the years ended December 31, related to the Company™s asset transfers 

in which it has continuing economic involvement.(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Cash flows on interests held1:  Residential Mortgage Loans2$32$27$48
  Commercial and Corporate Loans111  CDO Securities322    Total cash flows on interests held$36$30$51
Servicing or management fees1:  Residential Mortgage Loans2$2$3$3
  Commercial and Corporate Loans91010
    Total servicing or management fees$11$13$13
1 The transfer activity is related to unconsolidated VIEs. 
2 Does not include GSE mortgage loan transfersNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued141Portfolio balances and delinquency balances based on accruing loans 90 days or more past due and all nonaccrual loans at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, and net charge-offs related to managed portfolio loans (both those that are owned or consolidated 

by the Company and those that have been transferred) for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows:Portfolio Balance1Past Due2Net Charge-offsDecember 31,2013December 31,2012December 31,2013December 31,2012Year EndedDecember 31(Dollars in millions)20132012Type of loan:Commercial$64,310$58,888$272$320$153$303Residential43,19043,1991,2961,9414441,285Consumer20,37719,383631688193Total loan portfolio127,877121,4702,1992,3296781,681Managed securitized loans:Commercial1,6171,7672923ŠŠResidential100,695104,87749332,18632330Total managed loans$230,189$228,114$2,721$4,538$701$1,7111Excludes $1.7 billion and $3.4 billion of LHFS at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
2Excludes $17 million and $38 million of past due LHFS at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
3Excludes loans that have completed the foreclosure or short sale process (i.e., involuntary prepayments).Other Variable Interest Entities

In addition to the Company™s involvement with certain VIEs related to transfers of financial assets, the Company also has 

involvement with VIEs from other business activities. 
Total Return Swaps

The Company has involvement with various VIEs related to its TRS business. Under the matched book TRS business 

model, the VIEs purchase assets (typically commercial leveraged loans) from the market, which are identified by 

third party clients, that serve as the underlying reference assets for a TRS between the VIE and the Company and a 

mirror TRS between the Company and its third party clients. The TRS contracts between the VIEs and the Company 

hedge the Company™s exposure to the TRS contracts with its third party clients. These third parties are not related 

parties to the Company, nor are they and the Company de facto agents of each other. In order for the VIEs to purchase 

the reference assets, the Company provides senior financing, in the form of demand notes, to these VIEs. The TRS 

contracts pass through interest and other cash flows on the assets owned by the VIEs to the third parties, along with 

exposing the third parties to depreciation on the assets and providing them with the rights to appreciation on the 

assets. The terms of the TRS contracts require the third parties to post initial collateral, in addition to ongoing margin 

as the fair values of the underlying assets change. Although the Company has always caused the VIEs to purchase a 

reference asset in response to the addition of a reference asset by its third party clients, there is no legal obligation 

between the Company and its third party clients for the Company to purchase the reference assets or for the Company 

to cause the VIEs to purchase the assets.

The Company considered the VIE consolidation guidance, which requires an evaluation of the substantive contractual 

and non-contractual aspects of transactions involving VIEs established subsequent to January 1, 2010. The Company 

and its third party clients are the only VI holders. As such, the Company evaluated the nature of all VIs and other 

interests and involvement with the VIEs, in addition to the purpose and design of the VIEs, relative to the risks they 

were designed to create. The purpose and design of a VIE are key components of a consolidation analysis and any 

power should be analyzed based on the substance of that power relative to the purpose and design of the VIE. The 

VIEs were designed for the benefit of the third parties and would not exist if the Company did not enter into the TRS 

contracts with the third parties. The activities of the VIEs are restricted to buying and selling reference assets with 

respect to the TRS contracts entered into between the Company and its third party clients and the risks/benefits of 

any such assets owned by the VIEs are passed to the third party clients via the TRS contracts. The TRS contracts 

between the Company and its third party clients have a substantive effect on the design of the overall transaction and 

the VIEs. Based on its evaluation, the Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of the VIEs, as 

the design of the TRS business results in the Company having no substantive power to direct the significant activities 

of the VIEs.

At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, in senior financing 

outstanding to VIEs, which was classified within trading assets and derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued142and carried at fair value. These VIEs had entered into TRS contracts with the Company with outstanding notional 

amounts of $1.5 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and the Company had entered 

into mirror TRS contracts with third parties with the same outstanding notional amounts. At December 31, 2013, the 

fair values of these TRS assets and liabilities were $35 million and $31 million, respectively, and at December 31, 

2012, the fair values of these TRS assets and liabilities were $51 million and $46 million, respectively, reflecting the 

pass-through nature of these structures. The notional amounts of the TRS contracts with the VIEs represent the 

Company™s maximum exposure to loss, although such exposure to loss has been mitigated via the TRS contracts 

with third parties. For additional information on the Company™s TRS with these VIEs, see Note 16, ﬁDerivative 

Financial Instruments.ﬂ
Community Development Investments
As part of its community reinvestment initiatives, the Company invests primarily within its footprint in multi-family 

affordable housing developments and other community development entities as a limited and/or general partner and/

or a debt provider. The Company receives tax credits for various investments. The Company has determined that the 

related partnerships are VIEs. For partnerships where the Company operates strictly as the general partner, the 

Company consolidates these partnerships on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. As the general partner, the Company 

typically guarantees the tax credits due to the limited partner and is responsible for funding construction and operating 

deficits. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, total assets, which consist primarily of fixed assets and cash attributable 

to the consolidated entities, were $3 million, and total liabilities, excluding intercompany liabilities, were $1 million. 

Security deposits from the tenants are recorded as liabilities on the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

Company maintains separate cash accounts to fund these liabilities and these assets are considered restricted. The 

tenant liabilities and corresponding restricted cash assets were not material at December 31, 2013 and 2012. While 

the obligations of the general partner are generally non-recourse to the Company, as the general partner, the Company 

may from time to time step in when needed to fund deficits. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

the Company did not provide any significant amount of funding as the general partner or to cover any deficits the 

partnerships may have generated. 
For other partnerships, the Company acts only in a limited partnership capacity. The Company has determined that 

it is not the primary beneficiary of these partnerships and accounts for its interests in accordance with the accounting 

guidance for investments in affordable housing projects. The general partner or an affiliate of the general partner 

provides guarantees to the limited partner, which protects the Company from losses attributable to operating deficits, 

construction deficits, and tax credit allocation deficits. Partnership assets of $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion in these 

partnerships were not included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

The limited partner interests had carrying values of $252 million and $186 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively, and are recorded in other assets in the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company™s 

maximum exposure to loss for these investments totaled $697 million and $505 million at December 31, 2013 and 

2012, respectively. The Company™s maximum exposure to loss would be borne by the loss of the equity investments 

along with $303 million and $236 million of loans, interest-rate swaps, or letters of credit issued by the Company to 

the entities at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The difference between the maximum exposure to loss and 

the investment and loan balances is primarily attributable to the unfunded equity commitments. Unfunded equity 

commitments are amounts that the Company has committed to the entities upon the entities meeting certain conditions. 

If these conditions are met, the Company will invest these additional amounts in the entities.
Additionally, the Company owns noncontrolling interests in funds whose purpose is to invest in community 

developments. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company's investment in these funds totaled $138 million and 

$63 million, respectively, and the Company's maximum exposure to loss on its equity investments, which is comprised 

of its investments in the funds plus any additional unfunded equity commitments, was $217 million and $110 million, 

respectively.

When the Company owns both the limited partner and general partner interests or acts as the indemnifying party, the 

Company consolidates the entities. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, total assets, which consist primarily of fixed 

assets and cash, attributable to the consolidated non-VIE partnerships were $151 million and $239 million, 

respectively, and total liabilities, excluding intercompany liabilities, primarily representing third party borrowings, 

were $58 million and $100 million, respectively. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued143During 2012, the Company decided to sell certain consolidated affordable housing properties, and accordingly, 

recorded an impairment charge to adjust the carrying values to their estimated net realizable values. Upon moving 

to held for sale, most of these affordable housing properties were sold during 2013 resulting in an aggregate gain 

recognized upon sale of $17 million.  At December 31, 2013, market indicators remain consistent with the carrying 

values of the remaining properties to be sold and marketing efforts continue with an expected disposition in the first 

quarter of 2014.
Registered and Unregistered Funds Advised by RidgeWorth

RidgeWorth, a registered investment advisor and majority owned subsidiary of the Company, serves as the investment 

advisor for various private placement, common and collective funds, and registered mutual funds (collectively the 

ﬁFundsﬂ). The Company evaluates these Funds to determine if the Funds are VIEs. In February 2010, the FASB 

issued guidance that defers the application of the existing VIE consolidation guidance for investment funds meeting 

certain criteria. All of the registered and unregistered Funds advised by RidgeWorth  meet the scope exception criteria, 

thus, are not evaluated for consolidation under the guidance. Accordingly, the Company continues to apply the 

consolidation guidance in effect prior to the issuance of the existing guidance to interests in funds that qualify for 

the deferral.
The Company has concluded that some of the Funds are VIEs. However, the Company has determined that it is not 

the primary beneficiary of these funds as the Company does not absorb a majority of the expected losses nor expected 

returns of the funds. The Company™s exposure to loss is limited to the investment advisor and other administrative 

fees it earns and if applicable, any equity investments. The total unconsolidated assets of these funds at December 

31, 2013 and 2012, were $247 million and $372 million, respectively.

On December 11, 2013, it was publicly announced that the Company had reached a definitive agreement to sell 

RidgeWorth to an investor group led by a private equity fund managed by Lightyear Capital LLC. The sale is expected 

to close during the second quarter of 2014. See additional discussion of the planned sale in Note 20 , "Business 

Segment Reporting."NOTE 11 - BORROWINGS AND CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS

Short-term borrowings
Other short-term borrowings at December 31 was as follows:20132012(Dollars in millions)BalanceInterest Rate
BalanceInterest Rate
FHLB advances$4,0000.21%
$1,5000.34%
Master notes1,5540.28
1,5120.30
Dealer collateral2320.10
2820.17
Other22.70
92.70
Total other short-term borrowings$5,788$3,303At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had $27.1 billion and $23.8 billion of collateral pledged to the Federal Reserve 

discount window to support $20.8 billion and $18.0 billion of available, unused borrowing capacity, respectively.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued144Long-term debt
Long-term debt at December 31 was as follows: (Dollars in millions)20132012Interest RatesMaturities
Parent Company OnlySenior, fixed rate$3,001$2,2701.00% - 6.05%2014 - 2028
Senior, variable rate2831520.39 - 3.252015 - 2019
Subordinated, fixed rate2002006.002026
Junior subordinated, variable rate6276270.89 - 1.232027 - 2028
Total Parent Company debt (excluding intercompany

of $160 at December 31, 2013 and 2012)4,1113,249SubsidiariesSenior, fixed rate 
11,0064260.00 - 9.652014 - 2053
Senior, variable rate 
23,7833,8460.36 - 6.982015 - 2043
Subordinated, fixed rate 31,3001,3365.00 - 7.252015 - 2020
Subordinated, variable rate5005000.53 - 0.552015
Total subsidiaries debt6,5896,108Total long-term debt$10,700$9,3571 Includes leases and other obligations that do not have a stated interest rate.2 Includes $256 million and $286 million of debt recorded at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
3 Debt recorded at fair value.Maturities of long-term debt are:  2014 Œ $9 million; 2015 Œ $817 million; 2016 Œ $1.1 billion; 2017 Œ $4.7 billion; 2018 Œ 

$1.6 billion; and thereafter Œ $2.4 billion. During 2013, the Company issued $600 million of 2.75% senior notes under the 

Global Bank Note program that will mature in 2023 and $750 million of Parent Company 2.35% senior notes that will mature 

in 2018. The Company may call these notes beginning one month prior to each issuance's maturity date. The Company had 

no additional material issuances, repurchases, or extinguishments of long-term debt during the year.

Restrictive provisions of several long-term debt agreements prevent the Company from creating liens on, disposing of, or 

issuing (except to related parties) voting stock of subsidiaries. Further, there are restrictions on mergers, consolidations, c
ertain leases, sales or transfers of assets, minimum shareholders™ equity, and maximum borrowings by the Company. At December 31, 

2013, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and provisions of long-term debt agreements. As currently defined 

by federal bank regulators, long-term debt of $627 million qualified as Tier 1 capital at both December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

and long-term debt of $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion qualified as Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

At December 31, 2013, the Company had collateral pledged to the FHLB of Atlanta to support $12.3 billion of available 

borrowing capacity with $3.0 billion of long-term debt and $4.0 billion of short-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2013.

The Company does not consolidate certain wholly-owned trusts which had been formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust 
preferred securities. The proceeds from the trust preferred securities issuances were invested in junior subordinated debenture
s of the Parent Company. The obligations of these debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by the Parent Company 

of the trust preferred securities.
Contractual Commitments
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into certain contractual arrangements. Such arrangements include 

obligations to make future payments on lease arrangements, contractual commitments for capital expenditures, and service 

contracts. At December 31, 2013, the Company had the following unconditional obligations:
 (Dollars in millions)1 year or less1-3 years3-5 yearsAfter 5 yearsTotal
Operating lease obligations$208$386$262$354$1,210
Capital lease obligations 1134210
Purchase obligations 228465318388
Total$493$454$297$364$1,608
1 Amounts do not include accrued interest. 
2 Represents aggregation of termination fees on legally binding contracts to purchase goods or services that have a minimum termi
nation fee of $5 million 
or more. Amounts paid under these contracts totaled $194 million during 2013; however, there is no minimum annual payment other
 than termination fees 
required. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued145NOTE 12 Œ NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

Equivalent shares of 18 million, 23 million, and 26 million related to common stock options and common stock warrants 

outstanding at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, were excluded from the computations of diluted net income 

per average common share because they would have been anti-dilutive. 
Reconciliations of net income to net income available to common shareholders and the difference between average basic 

common shares outstanding and average diluted common shares outstanding are included below.
Year Ended December 31(In millions, except per share data)201320122011
Net income$1,344$1,958$647
Preferred dividends(37)(12)(7)Dividends and accretion of discount on preferred stock
issued to the U.S. TreasuryŠŠ(66)Accelerated accretion associated with repurchase of preferred stock
issued to the U.S. Treasury
ŠŠ(74)Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to unvested shares(10)(15)(5)Net income available to common shareholders$1,297$1,931$495
Average basic common shares534534524
Effect of dilutive securities:Stock options112Restricted stock and warrants432Average diluted common shares539538528
Net income per average common share - diluted$2.41$3.59$0.94
Net income per average common share - basic$2.43$3.62$0.94
NOTE 13 Œ  CAPITAL

During 2013, the Company submitted its CCAR capital plans for review by the Federal Reserve. Upon completion of the 

Federal Reserve's review, they did not object to the Company's capital actions. Accordingly, during 2013, the Company 

maintained dividend payments on its preferred stock, increased its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.05 to $0.10 per 

share beginning in the second quarter, and repurchased a total of $150 million, or approximately 4.6 million shares, of its 

outstanding common stock. Also pursuant to its capital plan, the Company repurchased an additional $50 million of its 

outstanding common stock in early 2014. The Company has submitted its 2014 capital plan for review by the Federal Reserve 

in conjunction with the 2014 CCAR process and awaits the completion of their review. 

The Company remains subject to certain restrictions on its ability to increase the dividend on common shares as a result of 

participating in the U.S. Treasury™s CPP. If the Company increases its dividend above $0.54 per share per quarter prior to the 

tenth anniversary of its participation in the CPP, then the anti-dilution provision within the warrants issued in connection wi
th the Company™s participation in the CPP will require the exercise price and number of shares to be issued upon exercise to be 

proportionately adjusted. The amount of such adjustment is determined by a formula and depends in part on the extent to 

which the Company raises its dividend. The formulas are contained in the warrant agreements which were filed as exhibits 

to Form 8-K filed on September 23, 2011.

During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company declared and paid common dividends totaling 

$188 million, or $0.35 per common share, $107 million, or $0.20 per common share, and $64 million, or $0.12 per common 

share, respectively. The Company also paid cash dividends on perpetual preferred stock totaling $37 million, $12 million, and 

$67 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. During 2013, the dividend per share 

for Series A and Series B Perpetual Preferred Stock was $4,056, and $5,793 for the Series E Perpetual Preferred Stock.

Substantially all of the Company™s retained earnings are undistributed earnings of the Bank, which are restricted by various 

regulations administered by federal and state bank regulatory authorities. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, retained earnings 

of the Bank available for payment of cash dividends to the Parent Company under these regulations totaled approximately 

$2.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. Additionally, the Federal Reserve requires the Company to maintain cash reserves. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued146At December 31, 2013 and 2012, these reserve requirements totaled $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively and were 

fulfilled with a combination of cash on hand and deposits at the Federal Reserve.
Capital Ratios
The Company is subject to various regulatory capital requirements which involve quantitative measures of the Company™s 

assets. Capital ratios at December 31 consisted of the following: 20132012(Dollars in millions)Amount      Ratio      
Amount      Ratio      
SunTrust Banks, Inc.Tier 1 common$14,6029.82%
$13,50910.04%
Tier 1 capital16,07310.81
14,97511.13
Total capital19,05212.81
18,13113.48
Tier 1 leverage9.588.91SunTrust BankTier 1 capital$16,05910.96%
$15,12111.38%
Total capital18,81012.84
18,05613.59
Tier 1 leverage9.789.23On October 11, 2013, the Federal Reserve published final rules in the Federal Register related to required minimum capital 

ratios that become effective for the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015. Under the final Basel III rules in the U.S., the 

minimum capital requirements contain thresholds for Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 4.5%; Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6%; Total 

Capital ratio of 8%; U.S. Leverage ratio of 4%; and a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of RWA. 

At December 31, 2013, the Company had $627 million in trust preferred securities outstanding. The final Basel III capital 

rules require the phase out of non-qualifying Tier 1 Capital instruments such as trust preferred securities. As such, over a 2-

year period beginning on January 1, 2015, approximately $627 million in principal amount of the Company's trust preferred 

and other hybrid capital securities currently outstanding will no longer qualify for Tier 1 capital treatment, but instead will
 qualify for Tier 2 capital treatment. Accordingly, the Company anticipates that, by January 1, 2016, all $627 million of its 

outstanding trust preferred securities will lose Tier 1 capital treatment, and will be reclassified as Tier 2 capital. 

Preferred Stock
Preferred stock at December 31 consisted of the following:(Dollars in millions)20132012Series A (1,725 shares outstanding)$172$172Series B (1,025 shares outstanding) 103103Series E (4,500 shares outstanding)450450Total preferred stock$725$725In September 2006, the Company authorized and issued depositary shares representing ownership interests in 5,000 shares 

of Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, no par value and $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the Series A Preferred 

Stock). The Series A Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of 

the Company. Dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly at a rate per annum 

equal to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus 0.53%, or 4.00%. Dividends on the shares are noncumulative. Shares of the 
Series A Preferred Stock have priority over the Company™s common stock with regard to the payment of dividends and, as 

such, the Company may not pay dividends on or repurchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of its 

common stock unless dividends for the Series A Preferred Stock have been declared for that period and sufficient funds have 

been set aside to make payment. During 2009, the Company repurchased 3,275 shares of the Series A Preferred Stock. In 

September 2011, the Series A Preferred Stock became redeemable at the Company™s option at a redemption price equal to 

$100,000 per share, plus any declared and unpaid dividends. Except in certain limited circumstances, the Series A Preferred 

Stock does not have any voting rights. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued147In December 2011, the Company authorized 5,010 shares and issued 1,025 shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, no 

par value and $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the Series B Preferred Stock). The Series B Preferred Stock has no 

stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company. Dividends on the shares are 

noncumulative and, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly at a rate per annum equal to the greater of three-month 
LIBOR plus 0.65%, or 4.00%. Shares of the Series B Preferred Stock have priority over the Company's common stock with 
regard to the payment of dividends and, as such, the Company may not pay dividends on or repurchase, redeem, or otherwise 

acquire for consideration shares of its common stock unless dividends for the Series B Preferred Stock have been declared 

for that period and sufficient funds have been set aside to make payment. The Series B Preferred Stock was immediately 

redeemable upon issuance at the Company's option at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, plus any declared and 

unpaid dividends. Except in certain limited circumstances, the Series B Preferred Stock does not have any voting rights.
In December 2012, the Company authorized 5,000 shares and issued 4,500 shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E, no 

par value and $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the Series E Preferred Stock). The Series E Preferred Stock has no 

stated maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company to redeem, repurchase, or retire
 the shares. Dividends on the shares are noncumulative and, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly at a rate per 

annum of 5.875%. Shares of the Series E Preferred Stock have priority over the Company's common stock with regard to the 

payment of dividends and rank equally with the Company's outstanding Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A and Series B and, 

as such, the Company may not pay dividends on or repurchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of its 

common stock unless dividends for the Series E Preferred Stock have been declared for that period and sufficient funds have 

been set aside to make payment. The Series E Preferred Stock is redeemable, at the option of the Company, on any dividend 

payment date occurring on or after March 15, 2018, at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, plus any declared and 

unpaid dividends, without regard to any undeclared dividends. Except in certain limited circumstances, the Series E Preferred 

Stock does not have any voting rights.
The Company repurchased its Series C and D Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock from the U.S. Treasury in March 2011. 

In September 2011, the U.S. Treasury sold, in a public auction, a total of 17.9 million of the Company's warrants to purchase 

11.9 million shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $44.15 per share (Series B warrants) and 6 million 

shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $33.70 per share (Series A warrants). The warrants were issued 

by the Company to the U.S. Treasury in connection with its investment in the Company under the CPP and have expiration 

dates of November 2018 (Series B) and December 2018 (Series A). In conjunction with the U.S. Treasury's auction, the 

Company acquired 4 million of the Series A warrants for $11 million and retired them. 

NOTE 14 - INCOME TAXES

The components of income tax provision included in the Consolidated Statements of Income during the years ended December 

31 were as follows:(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Current income tax (benefit)/expense:Federal($206)$553($4)
State(16)26Š
Total($222)$579($4)
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit):Federal$444$229$81
State51(35)2
Total49519483
Total income tax expense$273$773$79
The income tax provision does not reflect the tax effects of unrealized gains and losses and other income and expenses recorded
 in AOCI. For additional information on AOCI, see Note 21, ﬁAccumulated Other Comprehensive Income.ﬂ
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued148A reconciliation of the expected income tax expense at the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% to the Company™s actual 

provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate during the years ended December 31 were as follows:
 201320122011
(Dollars in millions)AmountPercent of
Pre-Tax
IncomeAmountPercent ofPre-Tax
IncomeAmountPercent ofPre-Tax
IncomeIncome tax expense at federal statutory rate$56635.0%
$95635.0%$25435.0%
Increase (decrease) resulting from:State income taxes, net201.2
(9)(0.3)10.1
Tax-exempt interest(80)(4.9)
(77)(2.8)(72)(9.9)
Internal restructuring(343)(21.3)
ŠŠŠŠ
Changes in UTBs (including interest), net1529.4
1Š10.1
Income tax credits(84)(5.2)
(83)(3.0)(88)(12.1)
Non-deductible expenses493.1
160.660.8
Dividends received deduction(1)Š
(8)(0.3)(14)(1.9)
Other(6)(0.4)
(23)(0.9)(9)(1.2)
Total income tax expense and rate$27316.9%
$77328.3%$7910.9%
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities result from differences between the timing of the recognition of assets and liabilit
ies for financial reporting purposes and for income tax return purposes. These assets and liabilities are measured using the enacte
d federal and state tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be
 realized. The net deferred income tax liability is recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The signif
icant components of the DTAs and DTLs, net of the federal impact for state taxes, at December 31 were as follows:
(Dollars in millions)20132012DTAs:ALLL$795$861Accrued expenses463685State NOL and other carryforwards208169Net unrealized losses in AOCI153ŠOther131173Total gross DTAs1,7501,888Valuation allowance(102)(56)Total DTAs$1,648$1,832DTLs:Leasing$804$786Net unrealized gains in AOCIŠ197Compensation and employee benefits9774MSRs566623Loans9872Goodwill and intangible assets151141Fixed assets153196Other5362Total DTLs$1,922$2,151Net DTL($274)($319)The DTAs include state NOLs and other state carryforwards that will expire, if not utilized, in varying amounts from 2014 to 

2033. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had a valuation allowance recorded against its state carryforwards and 

certain state DTAs of $102 million and $56 million, respectively. The increase in the valuation allowance was primarily due 

to an increase in the valuation allowance recorded against STM™s state NOLs. The Company determined that a valuation 

allowance is not required for the federal and the remaining state DTAs because it is more likely than not these assets will be 

realized.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued149The following table provides a rollforward of the Company's federal and state UTBs, excluding interest and penalties, during 

the years ended December 31:(Dollars in millions)20132012Balance at January 1$137$133Increases in UTBs related to prior years41Decreases in UTBs related to prior years(10)(2)Increases in UTBs related to the current year17145Decreases in UTBs related to settlements(2)(34)Decreases in UTBs related to lapse of the applicable statutes of limitations(9)(6)Balance at December 31$291$137The amount of UTBs that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate was $237 million at December 31, 

2013. The remainder of the UTBs have offsetting amounts in other jurisdictions or would be offset by the recording of a 

valuation allowance.
Interest related to UTBs is recorded as a component of the income tax provision. The Company had a liability of $17 million 

and $18 million for interest related to its UTBs at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. During the years ended December 

31, 2013 and 2012, the Company recognized a benefit of approximately $1 million and $3 million, respectively, for interest 

on the UTBs. 
The Company files U.S. federal, state, and local income tax returns. The Company's federal income tax returns are no longer 

subject to examination by the IRS for taxable years prior to 2010. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject 

to examination by state and local taxing authorities for taxable years prior to 2006. It is reasonably possible that the liability for UTBs could decrease by as much as $75 million during the next 12 months due to completion of tax authority examinations, 

receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS, and the expiration of statutes of limitations.
NOTE 15 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 

The Company sponsors various short-term incentive plans and LTIs for eligible employees, which may be delivered through 

various incentive programs, including stock options, RSUs, restricted stock, and LTI cash. AIP is the Company's short-term 

cash incentive plan for key employees that provides for potential annual cash awards based on the Company's performance 

and/or the achievement of business unit and individual performance objectives. Awards under the LTI cash plan generally 

cliff vest over a period of three years from the date of the award and are paid in cash. All incentive awards are subject to 

clawback provisions. Compensation expense for the AIP and LTI cash plans was $150 million, $155 million, and $116 million 

for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.

Previously, TARP prohibited the payment of any bonus, incentive compensation, or stock option award to the Company's five 

NEOs and certain other highly-compensated executives. As a result, beginning in January 2010, the Company paid additional 

base salary amounts in the form of stock (salary shares) to the NEOs and some of the other employees who were among the 
next 20 most highly-compensated executives. The Company did this each pay period in the form of stock units under the 

SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan (the "2009 Stock Plan") until the Company repaid the U.S. government's TARP 

investment. The Company settled the stock units in cash; for the 2010 salary shares, one half was settled on March 31, 2011, 

and one half was settled on March 31, 2012. The 2011 salary shares were settled on March 30, 2011, the date the Company 

repaid the U.S. government's TARP investment. The amount paid upon settlement of the stock units was equal to the value 

of a share of SunTrust common stock on the settlement date. The value of salary shares paid was $4 million and $7 million 

during 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation
The Company provides stock-based awards through the 2009 Stock Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2011) 

under which the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has the authority to grant stock options, restricted stock, 

and RSUs to key employees of the Company. Some awards may have performance or other conditions, such as vesting tied 

to the Company's total shareholder return relative to a peer group or vesting tied to the achievement of an absolute financial 
performance target. Under the 2009 Stock Plan, approximately 21 million shares of common stock are authorized and reserved 

for issuance, of which no more than 17 million shares may be issued as restricted stock or stock units. At December 31, 2013, 

17,274,016 shares were available for grant, including 8,971,619 shares available to be issued as restricted stock. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued150Shares or units of restricted stock may be granted to employees and directors and typically cliff vest after three years. Restr
icted stock grants may be subject to one or more criteria, including employment, performance, or other conditions as established 

by the Compensation Committee at the time of grant. Any shares of restricted stock that are forfeited will again become 

available for issuance under the Stock Plan. An employee or director has the right to vote the shares of restricted stock after
 grant unless and until they are forfeited. Compensation cost for restricted stock is equal to the fair market value of the shar
es on the grant date of the award and is amortized to compensation expense over the vesting period. Dividends are paid on 

awarded but unvested restricted stock. We do not pay dividends on unvested RSU awards but instead accrue and reinvest them 

in equivalent shares of SunTrust common stock and pay them only if the underlying RSU award vests. Generally, RSU awards 

are classified as equity. During 2012, however, there were 574,257 RSUs granted that were classified as a liability because 

the grant date had not been achieved as defined under U.S. GAAP.  They were granted with a fair value of $21.67 per unit on 

the grant date. The balance of these RSUs classified as a liability at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $17 million and $12 

million, respectively.

The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The 

expected volatility represents the implied volatility of SunTrust stock. The expected term represents the period of time that 

the stock options granted are expected to be outstanding and is derived from historical data that is used to evaluate patterns 

such as stock option exercise and employee termination. Through the repurchase of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 

in the first quarter of 2011, the expected dividend yield was based on the current rate in effect at the grant date. Beginning 
in second quarter 2011, the Company began using the projected dividend to be paid as the dividend yield assumption. The risk-

free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant based on the expected life of t
he option. Stock options are granted at an exercise price that is no less than the fair market value of a share of SunTrust common
 stock on the grant date and may be either tax-qualified incentive stock options or non-qualified stock options. Stock options 
typically vest pro-rata over three years and generally have a maximum contractual life of ten years. Upon exercise, shares are 

generally issued from treasury stock. The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2013, 2012, and 2011 were 

$7.37, $7.83, and $10.51 per share, respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using 

the Black-Scholes option pricing model based on the following assumptions: Year Ended December 31 201320122011
Dividend yield1.28%0.91%0.75%
Expected stock price volatility30.9839.8834.87
Risk-free interest rate (weighted average)1.021.072.48
Expected life of options6 years6 years6 years    
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued151The following table presents a summary of stock option and restricted stock activity: Stock OptionsRestricted StockRestricted Stock Units

(Dollars in millions, except per
share data)Shares
PriceRangeWeightedAverageExercisePriceShares
DeferredCompensationWeightedAverageGrantPriceShares
WeightedAverageGrantPriceBalance, January 1, 201117,142,500$9.06 - 150.45$51.174,620,809$43$25.3265,190$26.96

Granted813,26519.98 - 32.2729.701,400,3054431.27344,59037.57

Exercised/vested(20,000)9.069.06(1,085,252)Š50.37ŠŠ

Cancelled/expired/forfeited(2,066,348)9.06 - 140.4063.40(313,695)(7)22.07(4,305)26.96

Amortization of restricted stock
compensationŠŠŠŠ(32)ŠŠŠ

Balance, December 31, 201115,869,4179.06 - 150.4548.534,622,1674821.46405,47535.98

Granted859,39021.67 - 23.6821.921,737,2023821.971,717,14822.65

Exercised/vested(973,048)9.06 - 22.699.90(2,148,764)Š14.62(109,149)27.73

Cancelled/expired/forfeited(2,444,107)9.06 - 85.0645.73(524,284)(8)19.91(82,828)22.79

Amortization of restricted stock
compensationŠŠŠŠ(30)ŠŠŠ

Balance, December 31, 201213,311,6529.06 - 150.4550.153,686,3214825.561,930,64625.16

Granted552,99827.4127.411,314,2773929.58593,09324.65
Exercised/vested(712,981)9.06 - 27.7916.94(821,636)Š25.95(41,790)28.73
Cancelled/expired/forfeited(2,222,298)21.67 - 118.1856.55(195,424)(5)27.4114,22920.54
Amortization of restricted stock
compensationŠŠŠŠ(32)ŠŠŠ
Balance, December 31, 201310,929,371$9.06 - 150.45$49.863,983,538$50$27.042,496,178$26.69

Exercisable, December 31, 20139,351,182$53.89
The following table presents information on stock options by range of exercise prices at December 31, 2013: (Dollars in millions, except per share data)      

  Options OutstandingOptions Exercisable
Range ofExercisePricesNumberOutstandingatDecember 31, 2013WeightedAverageExercisePriceWeightedAverageRemainingContractualLife (Years)TotalAggregateIntrinsicValueNumberExercisableatDecember 31, 2013WeightedAverageExercisePriceWeightedAverageRemainingContractualLife (Years)TotalAggregateIntrinsicValue$9.06 to 49.464,548,172$19.576.22$782,969,983$16.145.22$61
$49.47 to 64.57424,13156.160.07Š424,13156.160.07Š
$64.58 to 150.455,957,06872.541.37Š5,957,06872.541.37Š
10,929,371$49.863.34$789,351,182$53.892.54$61
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the Compa
ny™s 
closing stock price on the last trading day of 2013 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money stock 

options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on December 31, 

2013. This amount changes based on the fair market value of the Company™s stock. Total intrinsic value of options exercised 

for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $11 million and $15 million, respectively, and less than $1 million for 

the year ended 2011. Total fair value, measured as of the grant date, of vested restricted shares was $21 million, $31 million,
 and $55 million, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Total fair value, measured as of the 

grant date, of vested RSUs was $1 million and $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and 

none for the year ended December 31, 2011.

At December 31, 2013 and 2012, there was $66 million and $67 million, respectively, of unrecognized stock-based 

compensation expense related to unvested stock options, restricted stock, and RSUs. The unrecognized stock compensation 

expense at December 31, 2013 is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.85 years.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued152Stock-based compensation expense recognized in noninterest expense for the years ended December 31 was as follows:(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Stock-based compensation expense:Stock options$6$11$15
Restricted stock323032
RSUs182710
Total stock-based compensation expense$56$68$57
The recognized stock-based compensation tax benefit was $21 million, $26 million, and $22 million for the years ended 

December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.

In addition to the SunTrust stock-based compensation awards, the Company has two subsidiaries which sponsor separate 

equity plans where subsidiary restricted stock or restricted membership interests are granted to key employees of the 

subsidiaries. These awards may be subject to one or more vesting criteria, including employment, performance, or other 

conditions as established by the board of directors or executive of the subsidiary at the time of grant. Compensation cost for 
these restricted awards is equal to the fair market value of the shares on the grant date of the award and is amortized to 

compensation expense over the vesting period considering an estimation of forfeitures. As the equity of these subsidiaries is 

not traded in public markets, fair market value of the shares on the grant date is determined based on an external valuation. 

Depending on the specific terms of the awards, unvested awards may or may not be entitled to receive dividends or distributions
 during the vesting period. The restricted stock awards and restricted membership interest awards are subject to certain fair 

value put and call provisions subsequent to vesting. Stock-based compensation expense recognized in noninterest expense 

for the subsidiary equity plans totaled $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and totaled $8 million for both years 

ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. During 2011, one of the subsidiaries converted all unvested membership interest awards 

into LTI cash awards for a fixed dollar amount equal to the fair value of the membership interest at the date of modification. 

The modified awards will continue to vest based on their original vesting schedule, and compensation expense will be 

recognized based on the higher of the original grant date value or the modified value.
Retirement PlansDefined Contribution Plan
SunTrust's employee benefit program includes a qualified defined contribution plan. For 2013 and 2012, the plan provided a 

dollar for dollar match on the first 6% of eligible pay that a participant, including executive participants, elected to defer 
to the 401(k) plan. Compensation expense related to this plan for each year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $96 million. 

SunTrust also maintains the SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan in which key executives of the Company are 

eligible. In accordance with the terms of the plan, the matching contribution to the Deferred Compensation Plan is the same 
percentage of match as provided in the 401(k) Plan subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the plans' provisions 

and applicable laws and regulations. Effective January 1, 2012, the Company's 401(k) plan and the Deferred Compensation 

Plan were amended to permit an additional discretionary Company contribution equal to a fixed percentage of eligible pay, 

as defined in the respective plan. For the 2012 performance year, the Company made a discretionary contribution on March 

15, 2013, in the amount of 2% of 2012 eligible pay to the 401(k) Plan and the Deferred Compensation Plan, which was $38 
million. For the 2013 performance year, the Company anticipates making a discretionary contribution on March 15, 2014, in 

the amount of 1% of 2013 eligible pay to the 401(k) Plan and the Deferred Compensation Plan of $19 million.
During 2011 the Company's 401(k) plan and the Deferred Compensation Plan provided a dollar for dollar match on the first 

5% of eligible pay that a participant elected to defer to the 401(k) plan. Compensation expense related to the 401(k) plan for 

the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled $81 million, excluding the special contribution during 2011 described below. 

Effective January 1, 2011, employees hired on or after January 1, 2011 will vest in all Company 401(k) matching contributions 

and matching contributions under the Deferred Compensation Plan upon completion of two years of vesting service. During 

2011, the Company's 401(k) plan and the Deferred Compensation Plan were amended to provide for a special one-time 

contribution equal to 5% of eligible 2011 earnings, which was $28 million, for employees who have: (1) at least 20 years of 

service at December 31, 2011, or (2) 10 years of service and the sum of age and service equaled or exceeded 60 at December 31, 

2011. This contribution was made subsequent to the retirement pension benefit curtailment described below.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued153Noncontributory Pension Plans
The Company maintains a funded, noncontributory qualified retirement plan (the "Retirement Plan") covering employees 

meeting certain service requirements. The plan provides benefits based on salary and years of service and, effective January 

1, 2008, either a traditional pension benefit formula, a cash balance formula (the Personal Pension Account), or a combination 

of both. Participants are 100% vested after 3 years of service. The interest crediting rate applied to each Personal Pension 

Account was 3% for 2013. The Company monitors the funded status of the plan closely and due to the current funded status, 

the Company did not contribute to either of its noncontributory qualified retirement plans ("Retirement Benefit Plans") for 

the 2013 plan year. 

The Company also maintains unfunded, noncontributory nonqualified supplemental defined benefit pension plans that cover 

key executives of the Company (the "SERP", the "ERISA Excess Plan", and the "Restoration Plan"). The plans provide defined 

benefits based on years of service and salary. The Company's obligations for these nonqualified supplemental defined benefit 

pension plans are included within the qualified Pension Plans in the tables presented in this section under ﬁPension Benefits.ﬂ

The SunTrust Banks, Inc. Restoration Plan (the ﬁRestoration Planﬂ), effective January 1, 2011, is a nonqualified defined benefi
t cash balance plan designed to restore benefits to certain employees that are limited under provisions of the Internal Revenue 

Code and are not otherwise provided for under the ERISA Excess Plan. The benefit formula under the Restoration Plan is the 

same as the Personal Pension Account under the Retirement Plan.

On October 1, 2004, the Company acquired NCF. Prior to the acquisition, NCF sponsored a funded qualified retirement plan, 

an unfunded nonqualified retirement plan for some of its participants, and certain other postretirement health benefits for its employees. Similar to the Company's Retirement Plan, due to the current funded status of the NCF qualified Retirement Plan, 

the Company did not make a contribution for the 2013 plan year. 

Effective January 1, 2011, a separate retirement plan was created exclusively for inactive and retired employees (ﬁSunTrust 

Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan for Inactive Participantsﬂ). Obligations and related plan assets were transferred from the SunTrust
 Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan to the new separate retirement plan. As described in the following paragraph, effective January 

1, 2012, the plans were combined into one Retirement Plan.
The Retirement Plan, the SERP, the ERISA Excess Plan, and the Restoration Plan were each amended on November 14, 2011 

to cease all future benefit accruals. As a result, the traditional pension benefit formulas (final average pay formulas) do not
 reflect future salary increases and benefit service after December 31, 2011, and compensation credits under the Personal 

Pension Accounts (cash balance formula) ceased. However, interest credits under the Personal Pension Accounts continue to 

accrue until benefits are distributed and service continues to be recognized for vesting and eligibility requirements for early
 retirement. Additionally, the NCF Retirement Plan, which had been previously curtailed with respect to future benefit accruals,
 was amended to cease any adjustments for pay increases after December 31, 2011. As a result of the curtailment, the SunTrust 

Banks, Inc. Retirement Plan for Inactive Participants was merged into the Retirement Plan effective January 1, 2012. The 

Company recorded a curtailment gain of $88 million during 2011, which is reflected in employee benefits expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income, and a reduction to the pension benefit obligation of $96 million, which is reflected in the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. The curtailment gain was partially offset by the $28 million special 401(k) contribution discussed
 above. 
The Company contributed less than $1 million to the Postretirement Welfare Plan during the year ended December 31, 2013. 

Additionally, the Company expects to receive a Medicare Part D Subsidy reimbursement for 2014 of less than $1 million. 

The expected pre-tax long-term rate of return on plan assets for the Postretirement Welfare Plan is 5.25% for 2014.
Other Postretirement Benefits

Although not under contractual obligation, the Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits to retired 

employees (ﬁOther Postretirement Benefitsﬂ in the tables below). At the option of the Company, retirees may continue certain 

health and life insurance benefits if they meet specific age and service requirements at the time of retirement. The health car
e plans are contributory with participant contributions adjusted annually, and the life insurance plans are noncontributory. Cert
ain retiree health benefits are funded in a Retiree Health Trust. Additionally, certain retiree life insurance benefits are funded 
in a VEBA. The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate any of the benefits at any time. During the fourth quarter of 

2013, the Company communicated a change in its retiree medical plan effective April 1, 2014. Retirees age 65 and older will 

enroll in individual Medicare supplemental plans and will no longer participate in a Company-sponsored group health plan.  In 

addition, the Company will fund a tax-advantaged Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) to assist some retirees with 

medical expenses. The plan amendment was measured as of December 31, 2013 and resulted in a decrease of $76 million in 

liability and AOCI for the postretirement benefits plan.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued154Assumptions
Each year, the SunTrust Benefits Finance Committee, which includes several members of senior management, reviews and 

approves the assumptions used in the year-end measurement calculations for each plan. The discount rate for each plan, used 

to determine the present value of future benefit obligations, is determined by matching the expected cash flows of each plan 
to a yield curve based on long-term, high quality fixed income debt instruments available as of the measurement date. A series 

of benefit payments projected to be paid by the plan is developed based on the most recent census data, plan provisions, and 

assumptions. The benefit payments at each future maturity are discounted by the year-appropriate spot interest rates. The 

model then solves for the discount rate that produces the same present value of the projected benefit payments as generated 

by discounting each year™s payments by the spot interest rate. Prior to curtailment, a rate of compensation growth was used 

to determine future obligations for those plans whose benefits vary by pay.

Actuarial gains and losses are created when actual experience deviates from assumptions. The actuarial gains on obligations 

generated within the Pension Plans during 2013 resulted primarily from higher interest rates and better than expected asset 

returns.  The actuarial losses during 2012 resulted primarily from lower interest rates.  

The change in benefit obligations during the year ended December 31 was as follows: Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement Benefits
(Dollars in millions)2013201220132012Benefit obligation, beginning of year$2,838$2,661$167$173Interest cost11311967Plan participants™ contributionsŠŠ2122Actuarial loss/(gain)(195)2421(2)Benefits paid(181)(184)(41)(36)Less federal Medicare drug subsidyŠŠ33Plan amendmentsŠŠ(76)ŠBenefit obligation, end of year$2,575$2,838$81$167The accumulated benefit obligation for the Pension Benefits at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion, 

respectively.

Pension benefits with a projected benefit obligation, in excess of plan assets at December 31 were as follows: (Dollars in millions)20132012Projected benefit obligation$80$2,701Accumulated benefit obligation792,701Pension BenefitsOther PostretirementBenefits(Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit

obligations, end of year)2013201220132012Discount rate4.98%4.08%4.15%3.45%Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued155The changes in plan assets during the year ended December 31 were as follows: Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement Benefits
(Dollars in millions)2013201220132012Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year$2,742$2,550$164$161Actual return on plan assets3043501417Employer contributions826ŠŠPlan participants™ contributionsŠŠ2122Benefits paid(181)(184)(41)(36)Fair value of plan assets, end of year$2,873$2,742$158$164Employer contributions indicated under pension benefits represent the benefits that were paid to nonqualified plan participants
. SERPs are not funded through plan assets.
The fair value of plan assets is measured based on the fair value hierarchy which is discussed in Note 18, ﬁFair Value Election
 and Measurement.ﬂ The valuations are based on third party data received as of the balance sheet date. Level 1 assets such as 

money market funds, equity securities, and mutual funds are instruments that are traded in active markets and are valued based 

on identical instruments. Fixed income securities are primarily classified as level 2 assets because there is not an identical 

asset in the market upon which to base the valuation; however, there are no significant unobservable assumptions used to 

value level 2 instruments. Corporate, foreign bonds, and preferred securities are valued based on quoted market prices obtained
 from external pricing sources where trading in an active market exists for level 2 assets. Level 3 assets are assets where limi
ted visible market activity exists for these instruments or similar instruments, and therefore, significant unobservable assumption
s are used to value the securities.
The following tables set forth by level, within the fair value hierarchy, plan assets at fair value related to Pension Benefits
 at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012:Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2013 using  
1(Dollars in millions)Assets Measured atFair Value atDecember 31, 2013Quoted Prices InActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)Significant OtherObservable Inputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)Money market funds$83$83$Š$Š
Equity securities:Consumer297297ŠŠ
Energy and utilities163163ŠŠ
Financials268268ŠŠ
Healthcare166166ŠŠ
Industrials157157ŠŠ
Information technology244244ŠŠ
Materials5151ŠŠ
Telecommunications services2828ŠŠ
Futures contracts8Š8ŠFixed income securities:U.S. Treasuries157157ŠŠ
Corporate - investment grade932Š932Š
Foreign bonds183Š183Š
Government agencies2Š2Š
Foreign governments4Š4Š
Municipal taxable53Š53Š
Corporate obligations CMO and REMIC56Š56Š
Other assetsOther assets22ŠŠ
Total plan assets$2,854$1,616$1,238$Š
1 Schedule does not include accrued income amounting to less than 0.7% of total plan assets.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued156Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2012 using 
1(Dollars in millions)Assets Measured atFair Value atDecember 31, 2012Quoted Prices InActive Markets forIdentical Assets(Level 1)Significant OtherObservable Inputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)Money market funds$48$48$Š$Š

Mutual funds:International diversified funds401401ŠŠ
Equity securities:Consumer218218ŠŠ

Energy and utilities127127ŠŠ

Financials136136ŠŠ

Healthcare111111ŠŠ

Industrials197197ŠŠ

Information technology199199ŠŠ

Materials4545ŠŠ

Telecommunications Services1717ŠŠ

Exchange traded funds172172ŠŠ
Fixed income securities:U.S. Treasuries534534ŠŠ

Corporate - investment grade412Š412Š

Foreign bonds77Š77Š

Preferred Securities - Domestic33Š33Š

Preferred Securities - Foreign2Š2Š
Total plan assets$2,729$2,205$524$Š
1 Schedule does not include accrued income amounting to less than 0.5% of total plan assets.The following tables set forth by level, within the fair value hierarchy, plan assets at fair value related to Other Postretire
ment Benefits at December 31, 2013 and 2012:(Dollars in millions) Fair Value
Measurements at
December 31, 2013 
1Assets Measuredat Fair Value atDecember 31, 2013Quoted Prices InActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1)SignificantOtherObservable Inputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)Mutual funds:Equity index fund$52$52$Š$Š
Tax exempt municipal bond funds8585ŠŠ
Taxable fixed income index funds1414ŠŠ
Money market funds77ŠŠ
Total plan assets$158$158$Š$Š
1 Schedule does not include accrued income.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued157(Dollars in millions) Fair Value
Measurements atDecember 31, 2012 1Assets Measuredat Fair Value atDecember 31, 2012Quoted Prices InActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets(Level 1)SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)Mutual funds:Equity index fund$49$49$Š$Š
Tax exempt municipal bond funds8686ŠŠ
Taxable fixed income index funds1414ŠŠ
Money market funds1515ŠŠ
Total plan assets$164$164$Š$Š
1 Schedule does not include accrued income.The SunTrust Benefits Finance Committee establishes investment policies and strategies and formally monitors the 

performance of the investments throughout the year. The Company™s investment strategy with respect to pension assets is to 

invest the assets in accordance with ERISA and related fiduciary standards. The long-term primary investment objectives for 

the Pension Plans are to provide for a reasonable amount of long term growth of capital (both principal and income) without 

undue exposure to risk in any single asset class or investment category and to enable the Pension Plan to provide benefits to 
participants thereof. The objectives are accomplished through investments in equities, fixed income, and cash equivalents in 

a mix that is conducive to participation in a rising market while allowing for protection in a declining market. The portfolio 

is viewed as long-term in its entirety, avoiding decisions regarding short-term concerns and any single investment. Asset 

allocation, as a percent of the total market value of the total portfolio, is set with the target percentages and ranges presen
ted in the investment policy statement. Rebalancing occurs on a periodic basis to maintain the target allocation, but normal market
 activity may result in deviations. During 2013 and 2012, there was no SunTrust common stock held in the Pension Plans.

The basis for determining the overall expected long-term rate of return on plan assets considers past experience, current marke
t conditions, and expectations on future trends. A building block approach is used that considers long-term inflation, real retur
ns, equity risk premiums, target asset allocations, market corrections (for example, narrowing of fixed income spreads between 

corporate bonds and U.S. Treasuries), and expenses. Capital market simulations from internal and external sources, survey 

data, economic forecasts, and actuarial judgment are all used in this process.
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the SunTrust Retirement Plan and the NCF Retirement Plan was 

7.00% for 2013 and 2012. The expected long-term rate of return is 7.00% for the SunTrust Retirement Plan and 6.5% for the 

NCF Retirement Plan for 2014. The asset allocation for the Pension Plans combined and the target allocation for each, by 

asset category, are as follows:
 Target
AllocationPercentage of Plan Assets
at December 31
Asset Category20142013
2012Equity securities0-60%48%
59%Debt securities40-10049
39Cash equivalents0-103
2Total100%100%The investment strategy for the Other Postretirement Benefit Plans is maintained separately from the strategy for the Pension 

Plans. The Company™s investment strategy is to create a series of investment returns sufficient to provide for a reasonable 

amount of long term growth of capital (both principal and income) to enable the Plans to provide benefits to participants 

thereof. During 2012, the assets were diversified among equity funds and fixed income investments according to the asset 

mix approved by the SunTrust Benefits Finance Committee, which is presented in the target allocation table below. With the 

Other Post Retirement Benefits having a shorter time horizon, a lower equity profile is appropriate. The pre-tax expected long-

term rate of return on retiree life plan assets was 5% for 2013 and 6.25% for 2012. The 2014 pre-tax expected long-term rate 

of return on retiree life plan assets is 5.25%. The after-tax expected long-term rate of return on retiree health plan assets w
as 3.25% for 2013 and 4.06% for 2012. The 2014 after-tax expected long-term rate of return on retiree health plan assets is 

3.41%. During 2013 and 2012, there was no SunTrust common stock held in the Other Postretirement Benefit Plans.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued158The asset allocation for Other Postretirement Benefit Plans and the target allocation, by asset category, are as follows:
 Target
AllocationPercentage of Plan Assets
at December 31
Asset Category20142013
2012Equity securities20-40%33%
30%Debt securities50-7062
61Cash equivalents5-155
9Total100%100%Funded Status
The funded status of the plans at December 31 was as follows: Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement Benefits 
2  (Dollars in millions)2013201220132012Fair value of plan assets$2,873$2,742$158$164Benefit obligations 1(2,575)(2,838)(81)(167)Funded status$298($96)$77($3)1 Includes $80 million and $91 million of benefit obligations for the unfunded nonqualified supplemental pension plans at Decembe
r 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
2 Plan remeasured at December 31, 2013 due to plan amendment.At December 31, the AOCI balance includes net actuarial losses and prior service costs and credits.  The amounts recognized 

in AOCI were as follows:
 Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement Benefits    
(Dollars in millions)2013201220132012Net actuarial loss/(gain)$807$1,145($1)$5Prior service creditŠŠ(76)ŠTotal AOCI, pre-tax$807$1,145($77)$5The key sources of the cumulative net losses to be recognized in future years for all pension benefits are attributable to lowe
r discount rates for the past several years and lower return on assets, predominantly during 2008. As discussed previously, the 

Company reviews its assumptions annually to ensure they represent the best estimates for the future and will, therefore, 

minimize future gains and losses.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued159Expected Cash Flows
Information about the expected cash flows for the Pension Benefit and Other Postretirement Benefit plans is as follows:(Dollars in millions)PensionBenefits1,2Other Postretirement
Benefits (excluding  Medicare Subsidy) 
3Value to Company
of ExpectedMedicare Subsidy
Employer Contributions
2014 (expected) to plan trusts$Š$Š$Š

2014 (expected) to plan participants7Š
(1)Expected Benefit Payments
201417112
(1)20151539Š

20161538Š

20171558Š

20181557Š

2019-202381725Š
1 At this time, the Company anticipates contributions to the Retirement Plan will be permitted (but not required) during 2014 bas
ed on the funded status and 
contribution limitations under the ERISA.2 The expected benefit payments for the SERP will be paid directly from the Company's corporate assets.
3 Expected benefit payments under Other Postretirement Benefits Plans are shown net of participant contributions.Net Periodic (Benefit)/Cost
Components of net periodic (benefit)/cost for the year ended December 31 were as follows:Pension BenefitsOther Postretirement Benefits
(Dollars in millions)201320122011
201320122011
Service cost$Š$Š$62
$Š$Š$Š
Interest cost113119128
679Expected return on plan assets(187)(173)(188)(6)(7)(7)Amortization of prior service creditŠŠ(16)ŠŠŠRecognized net actuarial loss262539
ŠŠ1Curtailment gainŠŠ(88)ŠŠŠSettlement lossŠ2ŠŠŠŠNet periodic (benefit)/cost($48)($27)($63)$Š$Š$3
Weighted average assumptions used to
determine net (benefit)/cost:
Discount rate4.08%4.63%15.59%23.45%4.10%5.10%
Expected return on plan assets7.007.007.72
33.2544.0644.394Rate of compensation increase 5N/AN/A4.00
N/AN/AN/A
1 Interim remeasurement was required on September 15, 2012, for the SunTrust SERP to reflect settlement accounting.
2 Interim remeasurement was required on November 14, 2011 due to plan amendments adopted at that time.  The discount rate as of 
the remeasurement date was selected based on economic conditions on that date.3As part of the interim remeasurement on November 14, 2011, the expected return on plan assets was reduced from 7.75% to 7.25% f
or the SunTrust Pension 
Plan and the NCF Retirement Plan.4 The weighted average shown for the Other Postretirement Benefit plan is determined on an after-tax basis.
5 "N/A" - Not applicableNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued160Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in OCI during 2013 were as follows:(Dollars in millions)PensionBenefitsOther Postretirement
BenefitsCurrent year actuarial gain($312)($6)Recognition of actuarial loss(26)ŠAmortization of prior service creditŠ(76
)Total recognized in OCI, pre-tax($338)($82)Total recognized in net periodic (benefit)/cost and OCI, pre-tax($386)($82)For the Pension Plans, the estimated actuarial loss that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic (benefit)/cost in 2014 

is $16 million. For the Other Postretirement Plans, the estimated prior service credit to be amortized from AOCI into net 

periodic (benefit)/cost in 2014 is $6 million. 
Additionally, the Company sets pension asset values equal to their market value, in contrast to the use of a smoothed asset 

value that incorporates gains and losses over a period of years. Utilization of market value of assets provides a more realisti
c economic measure of the plan™s funded status and cost. Assumed discount rates and expected returns on plan assets affect the 

amounts of net periodic (benefit)/cost. A 25 basis point increase/decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets woul
d decrease/increase the net periodic (benefit)/cost by $7 million for all Pension and Other Postretirement Plans. A 25 basis poin
t increase/decrease in the discount rate would change the net periodic (benefit)/cost by less than $1 million for all Pension and
 Other Postretirement Plans. 
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Other Postretirement Benefit 

plans. At December 31, 2013, the Company assumed that pre-65 retiree health care costs will increase at an initial rate of 

7.75% per year. The Company assumed a healthcare cost trend that recognizes expected inflation, technology advancements, 

rising cost of prescription drugs, regulatory requirements, and Medicare cost shifting. The Company expects this annual cost 

increase to decrease over a 7-year period to 5.00% per year. 

Due to changing medical inflation, it is important to understand the effect of a one percentage point change in assumed 

healthcare cost trend rates. The effects of a 1% increase or 1% decrease on Other Postretirement Benefit obligation and total 

service and interest cost are less than $1 million, respectively.

NOTE 16 - DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS          

The Company enters into various derivative financial instruments, both in a dealer capacity to facilitate client transactions a
nd as an end user as a risk management tool. ALCO monitors all derivative activities. When derivatives have been entered into 

with clients, the Company generally manages the risk associated with these derivatives within the framework of its VAR approach
 that monitors total daily exposure and seeks to manage the exposure on an overall basis. Derivatives are also used as a risk 

management tool to hedge the Company™s balance sheet exposure to changes in identified cash flow and fair value risks, either 

economically or in accordance with hedge accounting provisions. The Company™s Corporate Treasury function is responsible 

for employing the various hedge accounting strategies to manage these objectives. Additionally, as a normal part of its operati
ons, the Company enters into IRLCs on mortgage loans that are accounted for as freestanding derivatives and has certain contracts 
containing embedded derivatives that are carried, in their entirety, at fair value. All freestanding derivatives and any embedd
ed derivatives that the Company bifurcates from the host contracts are carried at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in trading assets and derivatives and trading liabilities and derivatives. The associated gains and losses are either recognized i
n AOCI, net of tax, or within the Consolidated Statements of Income, depending upon the use and designation of the derivatives.

Credit and Market Risk Associated with Derivatives

Derivatives expose the Company to credit risk. The Company minimizes the credit risk of derivatives by entering into transactio
ns with counterparties with defined exposure limits based on credit quality that are reviewed periodically by the Company™s Credit
 Risk Management division. The Company™s derivatives may also be governed by an ISDA or other master agreement, and 

depending on the nature of the derivative, bilateral collateral agreements are typically in place as well. In 2013, the Company
 became subject to OTC derivative clearing requirements as a registered swap dealer. As a result, certain derivatives are now 

required to be cleared through central clearing members in which the Company is required to post initial margin and, in additio
n, to further mitigate the risk of non-payment, variation margin is received or paid daily based on the net asset or liability pos
ition of the contracts. When the Company has more than one outstanding derivative transaction with a single counterparty and there 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued161exists a legal right of offset with that counterparty, the Company considers its exposure to the counterparty to be the net mar
ket value of its derivative positions with that counterparty if an asset, adjusted for held collateral. At December 31, 2013, these
 net 
derivative asset positions were $1.0 billion, representing the $1.5 billion of derivative net gains adjusted for cash and other
 collateral of $0.5 billion that the Company held in relation to these gain positions. At December 31, 2012, net derivative asse
t positions were $1.8 billion, representing $2.6 billion of derivative net gains, adjusted for cash and other collateral of $0.8 
billion that the Company held in relation to these gain positions.
Derivatives also expose the Company to market risk. Market risk is the adverse effect that a change in market factors, such as 

interest rates, currency rates, equity prices, or implied volatility, has on the value of a derivative. The Company manages the
 market risk associated with its derivatives by establishing and monitoring limits on the types and degree of risk that may be 

undertaken. The Company continually measures this risk associated with its derivatives designated as trading instruments using 

a VAR methodology.

Derivative instruments are priced with observable market assumptions at a mid-market valuation point, with appropriate valuatio
n adjustments for liquidity and credit risk. For purposes of valuation adjustments to its derivative positions, the Company has 

evaluated liquidity premiums that may be demanded by market participants, as well as the credit risk of its counterparties and 

its own credit. The Company has considered factors such as the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties, its net 

exposures, and remaining maturities in determining the appropriate fair value adjustments to recognize. Generally, the expected
 loss of each counterparty is estimated using the Company™s internal risk rating system. The risk rating system utilizes counter
party-specific PD and LGD estimates to derive the expected loss. For counterparties that are rated by national rating agencies, those ratings are also considered in estimating the credit risk. Additionally, counterparty exposure is evaluated by offsetting posit
ions that are subject to master netting arrangements, as well as by considering the amount of marketable collateral securing the 

position. All counterparties and defined exposure limits are explicitly approved. Counterparties are regularly reviewed and 

appropriate business action is taken to adjust the exposure to certain counterparties, as necessary. This approach is also used
 by 
the Company to estimate its own credit risk on derivative liability positions. The Company adjusted the net fair value of its 

derivative contracts for estimates of net counterparty credit risk by approximately $16 million and $29 million at December 31,
 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Currently the majority of the Company™s derivatives contain contingencies that relate to the creditworthiness of the Bank. Thes
e contingencies, which are contained in industry standard master netting agreements, may be considered events of default. Should 

the Bank be in default under any of these provisions, the Bank™s counterparties would be permitted to close-out net at amounts 

that would approximate the then-fair values of the derivatives resulting in a single sum due by one party to the other. The 

counterparties would have the right to apply any collateral posted by the Bank against any net amount owed by the Bank. 

Additionally, certain of the Company™s derivative liability positions, totaling $941 million in fair value at December 31, 2013
 and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2012, contain provisions conditioned on downgrades of the Bank™s credit rating. These 

provisions, if triggered, would either give rise to an ATE that permits the counterparties to close-out net and apply collatera
l or, 
where a CSA is present, require the Bank to post additional collateral. At December 31, 2013, the Bank carried senior long-term
 debt ratings of A3/BBB+ from three of the major ratings agencies. At the current rating level, ATEs have been triggered for 

approximately $3 million in fair value liabilities at December 31, 2013. For illustrative purposes, if the Bank were downgraded
 to BB+, ATEs would be triggered in derivative liability contracts that had a total fair value of $9 million at December 31, 201
3; ATEs do not exist at lower ratings levels. At December 31, 2013, $938 million in fair value of derivative liabilities were subj
ect to CSAs, against which the Bank has posted $864 million in collateral, primarily in the form of cash. If requested by the 

counterparty pursuant to the terms of the CSA, the Bank would be required to post estimated additional collateral against these
 contracts at December 31, 2013, of $10 million if the Bank were downgraded to Baa3/BBB-, and any further downgrades to 

Ba1/BB+ or below do not contain predetermined collateral posting levels. 
Notional and Fair Value of Derivative Positions 

The following tables present the Company™s derivative positions at December 31, 2013 and 2012. The notional amounts in the 

tables are presented on a gross basis and have been classified within Asset Derivatives or Liability Derivatives based on the 

estimated fair value of the individual contract at December 31, 2013 and 2012. Gross positive and gross negative fair value 

amounts associated with respective notional amounts are presented without consideration of any netting agreements, including 

collateral arrangements. For contracts constituting a combination of options that contain a written option and a purchased opti
on (such as a collar), the notional amount of each option is presented separately, with the purchased notional amount generally 

being presented as an Asset Derivative and the written notional amount being presented as a Liability Derivative. For contracts
 that contain a combination of options, the fair value is generally presented as a single value with the purchased notional amou
nt if the combined fair value is positive, and with the written notional amount, if the combined fair value is negative.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued162 December 31, 2013 Asset DerivativesLiability Derivatives
(Dollars in millions)NotionalAmounts FairValue
NotionalAmounts FairValue
Derivatives designated in cash flow hedging relationships 
1Interest rate contracts hedging floating rate loans$17,250  $471$Š  $Š
Derivatives designated in fair value hedging relationships 
2Interest rate contracts covering fixed rate debt2,0005290024
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 3Interest rate contracts covering:Fixed rate debtŠ  Š60  7
MSRs1,425  276,898  79
LHFS, IRLCs 44,561301,3175
Trading activity 
570,6152,91765,2992,742
Foreign exchange rate contracts covering trading activity2,449  612,624  57
Credit contracts covering:LoansŠ  Š427  5
Trading activity 
61,568371,57934
Equity contracts - Trading activity 
519,5952,50424,7122,702
Other contracts:IRLCs and other 71,114  127554
Commodities241  14228  14
Total101,568  5,602103,899  5,649
Total derivatives$120,818  $6,125$104,799  $5,673

Total gross derivatives, before netting$6,125$5,673
Less:  Legally enforceable master netting agreements(4,284)(4,284)
Less:  Cash collateral received/paid(457)(864)
Total derivatives, after netting$1,384$525
1 See ﬁCash Flow Hedgesﬂ in this Note for further discussion.2 See ﬁFair Value Hedgesﬂ in this Note for further discussion.
3 See ﬁEconomic Hedging and Trading Activitiesﬂ in this Note for further discussion.
4 Amount includes $885 million of notional amounts related to interest rate futures. These futures contracts settle in cash dail
y, one day in arrears. The derivative 
asset or liability associated with the one day lag is included in the fair value column of this table.5 Amounts include $15.2 billion and $0.2 billion of notional related to interest rate futures and equity futures, respectively. 
These futures contracts settle in cash 
daily, one day in arrears. The derivative assets/liabilities associated with the one day lag are included in the fair value col
umn of this table.6 Asset and liability amounts include $4 million and $5 million, respectively, of notional from purchased and written credit ris
k participation agreements, respectively, whose notional is calculated as the notional of the derivative participated adjusted by the relevant RWA conversi
on factor.
7 Includes a notional amount that is based on the number of Visa Class B shares, 3.2 million, the conversion ratio from Class B 
shares to Class A shares, and 
the Class A share price at the derivative inception date of May 28, 2009. This derivative was established upon the sale of Clas
s B shares in the second quarter 
of 2009 as discussed in Note 17, ﬁGuarantees.ﬂ The fair value of the derivative liability, which relates to a notional amount o
f $55 million, is immaterial and 
is recognized in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued163 December 31, 2012 Asset DerivativesLiability Derivatives
(Dollars in millions)NotionalAmounts 
FairValue
NotionalAmounts 
FairValue
Derivatives designated in cash flow hedging relationships 1Interest rate contracts hedging floating rate loans$17,350  $771$Š$Š
Derivatives designated in fair value hedging relationships 2Interest rate contracts covering fixed rate debt1,00061ŠŠ
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 3Interest rate contracts covering:Fixed rate debtŠ  Š60  10
MSRs6,185  15012,643  33
LHFS, IRLCs, LHFI-FV 
42,33367,07615
Trading activity 
581,9306,04486,037  5,777
Foreign exchange rate contracts covering:Foreign-denominated debt and commercial loansŠ
  Š34  Š
Trading activity2,451
  662,326  63
Credit contracts covering:LoansŠ  Š445  8
Trading activity 
61,958552,08149
Equity contracts - Trading activity 
515,7481,34222,184
  1,529Other contracts:IRLCs and other 76,783  1321421
Commodities255  29255
  29Total117,6437,824133,2837,514
Total derivatives$135,993$8,656$133,283$7,514

Total gross derivatives, before netting$8,656$7,514
Less:  Legally enforceable master netting agreements(5,843)(5,843)

Less:  Cash collateral received/paid(730)(1,259)
Total derivatives, after netting$2,083$412
1 See ﬁCash Flow Hedgesﬂ in this Note for further discussion. 2 See ﬁFair Value Hedgesﬂ in this Note for further discussion.
3  See ﬁEconomic Hedging and Trading Activitiesﬂ in this Note for further discussion.
4 Amount includes $1.7 billion of notional amounts related to interest rate futures. These futures contracts settle in cash dail
y, one day in arrears. The derivative 
liability associated with the one day lag is included in the fair value column of this table.5 Amounts include $16.2 billion and $0.8 billion of notional related to interest rate futures and equity futures, respectively. 
These futures contracts settle in cash 
daily, one day in arrears. The derivative asset associated with the one day lag is included in the fair value column of this ta
ble.6 Asset and liability amounts each include $3 million of notional from purchased and written interest rate swap risk participati
on agreements, respectively, 
whose notional is calculated as the notional of the interest rate swap participated adjusted by the relevant RWA conversion fac
tor.
7 Includes a notional amount that is based on the number of Visa Class B shares, 3.2 million, the conversion ratio from Class B 
shares to Class A shares, and 
the Class A share price at the derivative inception date of May 28, 2009. This derivative was established upon the sale of Clas
s B shares in the second quarter 
of 2009 as discussed in Note 17, ﬁGuarantees.ﬂ The fair value of the derivative liability, which relates to a notional amount o
f $134 million, is immaterial and 
is recognized in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.Impact of Derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Shareholders™ Equity 

The impacts of derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders™ Equity 

for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, are presented below. The impacts are segregated between those 

derivatives that are designated in hedging relationships and those that are used for economic hedging or trading purposes, with
 further identification of the underlying risks in the derivatives and the hedged items, where appropriate. The tables do not di
sclose the financial impact of the activities that these derivative instruments are intended to hedge.  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued164 Year Ended December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)Amount of pre-tax gain/(loss)recognized inOCI on Derivatives(Effective  Portion)Classification of gain/(loss)reclassified from    AOCI into Income(Effective Portion)Amount of pre-taxgainreclassified fromAOCI into Income(Effective Portion)Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships:Interest rate contracts hedging forecasted debt($2)Interest on long-term debt$Š
Interest rate contracts hedging floating rate loans118Interest and fees on loans327
Total$16$327
1 During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company also reclassified $90 million  pre-tax gains from AOCI into net interest i
ncome. These gains related to hedging relationships 
that have been previously terminated or de-designated and are reclassified into earnings in the same period in which the forecasted transaction occurs. Year Ended December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)Amount of loss onDerivativesrecognized in IncomeAmount of gain on relatedHedged Itemsrecognized in IncomeAmount of lossrecognized inIncome on Hedges(Ineffective Portion)Derivatives in fair value hedging relationships:Interest rate contracts hedging fixed rate debt1($36)$33($3)
1 Amounts are recognized in trading income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. (Dollars in millions)Classification of gain/(loss)recognized in Income on DerivativesAmount of gain/(loss)recognized in Incomeon Derivatives during theYear Ended December 31, 2013Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Interest rate contracts covering:Fixed rate debtTrading income
$2MSRsMortgage servicing related income
(284)LHFS, IRLCsMortgage production related income/(loss)
289Trading activityTrading income
59Foreign exchange rate contracts covering:Commercial loansTrading income
1Trading activityTrading income
23Credit contracts covering:LoansOther noninterest income
(4)Trading activityTrading income
21Equity contracts - trading activityTrading income
(15)Other contracts - IRLCsMortgage production related income/(loss)
98Total$190The impacts of derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' 
Equity for the year ended December 31, 2012, are presented below: Year Ended December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)Amount of pre-tax gain/(loss)recognized inOCI on Derivatives(Effective Portion)Classification of gain/(loss)reclassified fromAOCI into Income(Effective Portion)Amount of pre-tax gain/(loss)reclassified fromAOCI into Income(Effective Portion)
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships:Equity contracts hedging Securities AFS 
1($171)Net securities gains($365)Interest rate contracts hedging Floating rate loans 2252Interest and fees on loans337
Total$81($28)
1 During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company also recognized $60 million of pre-tax gains directly into net securities
 gains related to mark-to-market changes of the 
Coke hedging contracts when the cash flow hedging relationship failed to qualify for hedge accounting.2 During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company also reclassified $171 million  pre-tax gains from AOCI into net interest 
income. These gains related to hedging relationships 
that have been previously terminated or de-designated and are reclassified into earnings in the same period in which the forecasted transaction occurs.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued165 Year Ended December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)Amount of gain onDerivatives recognizedin IncomeAmount of loss on relatedHedged Itemsrecognized in IncomeAmount of gain/(loss)recognized in Incomeon Hedges (IneffectivePortion)Derivatives in fair value hedging relationships1:   Interest rate contracts hedging Fixed rate debt$5($5)$Š
Interest rate contracts hedging Securities AFS1(1)Š
Total$6($6)$Š
1 Amounts are recognized in trading income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.(Dollars in millions)Classification of gain/(loss)recognized in Income on DerivativesAmount of gain/(loss)recognized in Incomeon Derivatives during theYear Ended December 31, 2012Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Interest rate contracts covering:Fixed rate debtTrading income($2)

MSRsMortgage servicing related income284

LHFS, IRLCs, LHFI-FVMortgage production related income/(loss)(331)

Trading activityTrading income86
Foreign exchange rate contracts covering:Commercial loans and foreign-denominated debtTrading income129

Trading activityTrading income14
Credit contracts covering:Loans 1Other noninterest income(8)
Trading activityTrading income24
Equity contracts - trading activityTrading income8

Other contracts - IRLCsMortgage production related income/(loss)930
Total$1,1341 For the six months ended June 30, 2012, losses of $3 million were recorded in trading income.The impacts of derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' 
Equity for the year ended December 31, 2011, are presented below:
 Year Ended December 31, 2011(Dollars in millions)Amount of pre-tax gain/(loss)recognized inOCI on Derivatives(Effective Portion)Classification of gainreclassified fromAOCI into Income(Effective Portion)Amount of pre-tax gainreclassified fromAOCI into Income(Effective Portion)
Derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships:Equity contracts hedging Securities AFS($46)Net securities gains$ŠInterest rate contracts hedging Floating rate loans 1730Interest and fees on loans423
Total$684$423
1 During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company also reclassified $202 million pre-tax gains from AOCI into net interest i
ncome. These gains related to hedging 
relationships that have been previously terminated or de-designated and are reclassified into earnings in the same period in which the forecasted transaction occurs. Year Ended December 31, 2011(Dollars in millions)Amount of loss onDerivativesrecognized in IncomeAmount of gain on relatedHedged Itemsrecognized in IncomeAmount of lossrecognized inIncome on Hedges(Ineffective Portion)Derivatives in fair value hedging relationships:Interest rate contracts hedging fixed rate debt1$51($52)($1)
1 Amounts are recognized in trading income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued166(Dollars in millions)Classification of gain/(loss)recognized in Income on DerivativesAmount of gain/(loss)recognized in Incomeon Derivatives during theYear Ended December 31, 2011Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Interest rate contracts covering:Fixed rate debtTrading income($5)

MSRsMortgage servicing related income572

LHFS, IRLCs, LHFI-FVMortgage production related income/(loss)(281)

Trading activityTrading income113
Foreign exchange rate contracts covering:Commercial loans and foreign-denominated debtTrading income(4)

Trading activityTrading income18
Credit contracts covering:LoansTrading income(1)

Trading activityTrading income15
Equity contracts - trading activityTrading income(3)

Other contracts - IRLCsMortgage production related income/(loss)355
Total$779Netting of Derivatives 
The Company has various financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to enforceable master netting agreements or similar agreements. The Company's securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under 

agreements to repurchase that are subject to enforceable master netting agreements or similar agreements are discussed in Note 

3, "Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell." The Company enters into ISDA 

or other legally enforceable industry standard master netting arrangements with derivative counterparties. Under the terms of 

the master netting arrangements, all transactions between the Company and the counterparty constitute a single business 

relationship such that in the event of default, the nondefaulting party is entitled to set off claims and apply property held b
y that party in respect of any transaction against obligations owed. Any payments, deliveries, or other transfers may be applied again
st each other and netted.
The table below shows total gross derivative assets and liabilities which are adjusted on an aggregate basis, where applicable 

to take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements, including any cash collateral received
 or 
paid, for the net reported amount in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Also included in the table is financial instrument collat
eral related to legally enforceable master netting agreements that represents securities collateral received or pledged and customer
 cash collateral held at third-party custodians. These amounts are not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheets but are shown 

as a reduction to total derivative assets and liabilities in the table to derive net derivative assets and liabilities. These a
mounts are limited to the derivative asset/liability balance, and accordingly, do not include excess collateral received/pledged.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued167The following tables present the Company's gross derivative financial assets and liabilities at December 31, 2013 and 

December 31, 2012, and the related impact of enforceable master netting arrangements, where applicable:Net AmountPresented in
ConsolidatedBalance Sheets(Dollars in millions)Gross
AmountAmountOffsetHeld/PledgedFinancialInstrumentsNetAmountDecember 31, 2013
Derivative financial assets:Derivatives subject to master netting arrangement or
similar arrangement$5,285$4,239$1,046$51$995
Derivatives not subject to master netting arrangement
or similar arrangement12Š12Š12
Exchange traded derivatives828502326Š326
Total derivative financial assets$6,125$4,741$1,384
1$51$1,333
Derivative financial liabilities:Derivatives subject to master netting arrangement or
similar arrangement$4,982$4,646$336$13$323
Derivatives not subject to master netting arrangement
or similar arrangement189Š189Š189
Exchange traded derivatives502502ŠŠŠ
Total derivative financial liabilities$5,673$5,148$525
2$13$512
December 31, 2012
Derivative financial assets:Derivatives subject to master netting arrangement or
similar arrangement$8,041$6,273$1,768$94$1,674
Derivatives not subject to master netting arrangement
or similar arrangement132Š132Š132
Exchange traded derivatives483300183Š183
Total derivative financial assets$8,656$6,573$2,083
1$94$1,989
Derivative financial liabilities:Derivatives subject to master netting arrangement or
similar arrangement$7,051$6,802$249$37$212
Derivatives not subject to master netting arrangement
or similar arrangement163Š163Š163
Exchange traded derivatives300300ŠŠŠ
Total derivative financial liabilities$7,514$7,102$412
2$37$375
1 At December 31, 2013, $1.4 billion, net of $457 million offsetting cash collateral, is recognized in trading assets and deriva
tives within the Company's Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2012, $2.1 billion, net of $730 million offsetting cash collateral, is recognized in trading as
sets and derivatives within the 
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.2 At December 31, 2013, $525 million, net of $864 million offsetting cash collateral, is recognized in trading liabilities and d
erivatives within the Company's 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2012, $412 million, net of $1.3 billion offsetting cash collateral, is recognized 
in trading liabilities and derivatives 
within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.Credit Derivatives
As part of its trading businesses, the Company enters into contracts that are, in form or substance, written guarantees: specif
ically, 
CDS, swap participations, and TRS. The Company accounts for these contracts as derivatives and, accordingly, recognizes these 

contracts at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in trading income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company writes CDS, which are agreements under which the Company receives premium payments from its counterparty 

for protection against an event of default of a reference asset. In the event of default under the CDS, the Company would eithe
r net cash settle or make a cash payment to its counterparty and take delivery of the defaulted reference asset, from which the 

Company may recover all, a portion, or none of the credit loss, depending on the performance of the reference asset. Events of 

default, as defined in the CDS agreements, are generally triggered upon the failure to pay and similar events related to the   
                  issuer(s) of the reference asset. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, all written CDS contracts reference single name corporate 

credits or corporate credit indices. When the Company has written CDS, it has generally entered into offsetting CDS for the 

underlying reference asset, under which the Company paid a premium to its counterparty for protection against an event of 

default on the reference asset. The counterparties to these purchased CDS are generally of high creditworthiness and typically 

have ISDA master netting agreements in place that subject the CDS to master netting provisions, thereby, mitigating the risk of
 non-payment to the Company. As such, at December 31, 2013 the Company did not have any material risk of making a non-

recoverable payment on any written CDS. During 2013 and 2012, the only instances of default on written CDS were driven by 

credit indices with constituent credit default. In all cases where the Company made resulting cash payments to settle, the Comp
any Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued168collected like amounts from the counterparties to the offsetting purchased CDS. At 
December 31, 2013 and 2012
, the written CDS had remaining terms of four years and ranging from less than one year to three years, respectively. The maximum guarantees 

outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012
, as measured by the gross notional amounts of written CDS, were $60 million and 
$52 million, respectively. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the gross notional amounts of purchased CDS contracts, which 

represent benefits to, rather than obligations of, the Company, were $70 million and $175 million, respectively. The fair value
s of written CDS were $3 million and $1 million at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012
, respectively, and the fair values of purchased 
CDS were $3 million and less than $1 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
The Company has also entered into TRS contracts on loans. The Company™s TRS business consists of matched trades, such that 

when the Company pays depreciation on one TRS, it receives the same amount on the matched TRS. To mitigate its credit risk, 

the Company typically receives initial cash collateral from the counterparty upon entering into the TRS and is entitled to addi
tional collateral if the fair value of the underlying reference assets deteriorates. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, there were $1.5 bi
llion and $1.9 billion of outstanding and offsetting TRS notional balances, respectively. The fair values of the TRS derivative asset
s and liabilities at December 31, 2013, were $35 million and $31 million, respectively, and related collateral held at December 3
1, 2013, was $228 million. The fair values of the TRS derivative assets and liabilities at December 31, 2012, were $51 million and
 $46 million, respectively, and related collateral held at December 31, 2012, was $282 million.
The Company writes risk participations, which are credit derivatives, whereby the Company has guaranteed payment to a dealer 

counterparty in the event that the counterparty experiences a loss on a derivative, such as an interest rate swap, due to a fai
lure to pay by the counterparty™s customer (the ﬁobligorﬂ) on that derivative. The Company monitors its payment risk on its risk 

participations by monitoring the creditworthiness of the obligors, which is based on the normal credit review process the Compa
ny would have performed had it entered into the derivatives directly with the obligors. The obligors are all corporations or partn
erships. However, the Company continues to monitor the creditworthiness of its obligors and the likelihood of payment could change at 

any time due to unforeseen circumstances. To date, no material losses have been incurred related to the Company™s written risk 

participations. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the remaining terms on these risk participations generally ranged from less than
 one year to twelve years and ten years, respectively, with a weighted average on the maximum estimated exposure of 6.9 years 

and 4.4 years, respectively. The Company™s maximum estimated exposure to written risk participations, as measured by projecting
 a maximum value of the guaranteed derivative instruments based on interest rate curve simulations and assuming 100% default 

by all obligors on the maximum values, was approximately $33 million and $20 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. The fair values of the written risk participations were less than $1 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012. As pa
rt of its trading activities, the Company may enter into purchased risk participations to mitigate credit exposure to a derivative
 counterparty.
Cash Flow HedgesThe Company utilizes a comprehensive risk management strategy to monitor sensitivity of earnings to movements in interest rates
. Specific types of funding and principal amounts hedged are determined based on prevailing market conditions and the shape of 

the yield curve. In conjunction with this strategy, the Company may employ various interest rate derivatives as risk management
 tools to hedge interest rate risk from recognized assets and liabilities or from forecasted transactions. The terms and notiona
l amounts of derivatives are determined based on management™s assessment of future interest rates, as well as other factors. 
Interest rate swaps have been designated as hedging the exposure to the benchmark interest rate risk associated with floating 

rate loans. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the range of hedge maturities for hedges of floating rate loans was between less 

than one year and five years, with the weighted average being 2.0 years and 2.4 years, respectively. Ineffectiveness on these 

hedges was less than $1 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011. At December 31, 2013, $371 

million of the deferred net gains on derivatives that are recognized in AOCI are expected to be reclassified to net interest in
come over the next twelve months in connection with the recognition of interest income on these hedged items. The amount to be 

reclassified into income includes both active and terminated or de-designated cash flow hedges. The Company may choose to 

terminate or de-designate a hedging relationship in this program due to a change in the risk management objective for that 

specific hedge item, which may arise in conjunction with an overall balance sheet management strategy.

The Company also designated interest rate swaps to hedge exposure to changes in probable interest payments attributable to 

changes in the benchmark interest rate associated with a forecasted issuance of fixed rate debt.
During 2008, the Company executed the Agreements on 60 million common shares of Coke. The Agreements were zero-cost 

equity collars at inception, which caused the Agreements to be derivatives in their entirety. The Company designated the 

Agreements as cash flow hedges of the Company's probable forecasted sales of its Coke common shares, and the risk management 

objective was to hedge the cash flows on the forecasted sales of the Coke common shares at market values equal to or above 

the call strike price and equal to or below the put strike price. The Company assessed hedge effectiveness on a quarterly basis
 and measured hedge ineffectiveness with the effective portion of the changes in fair value of the Agreements recognized in 

AOCI and any ineffective portions recognized in trading income. None of the components of the Agreements' fair values were 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued169excluded from the Company's assessments of hedge effectiveness. Ineffectiveness gains on the Agreements of $1 million and 

$2 million were recognized in trading income during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and related to 

changes in market dividends. 
During 2012, the Company and the Coke Counterparty accelerated the termination of the Agreements, and the Company sold 

in the market or to the Coke Counterparty 59 million of its 60 million shares of Coke and contributed the remaining 1 million 

shares to the SunTrust Foundation for a net gain of $1.9 billion, which is net of a $305 million loss related to the derivative
 contract termination of the Agreements. Upon approval by the Board to terminate the Agreements and sell and donate the Coke 

shares, the Agreements no longer qualified as cash flow hedges. Thus, subsequent changes in value of the Agreements until 

termination totaled $60 million and were recognized in net securities gains in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Amounts 

recognized in AOCI in the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity during the period the Agreements qualified as cash 

flow hedges totaled $365 million in losses. These amounts remained in AOCI until the sale of the Coke shares, at which time 

the amounts were reclassified to net securities gains in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Fair Value Hedges 

The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements as part of the Company™s risk management objectives for hedging its 

exposure to changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates. These hedging arrangements convert Company-issued fixed 

rate long-term debt to floating rates. Consistent with this objective, the Company reflects the accrued contractual interest on
 the 
hedged item and the related swaps as part of current period interest. There were no components of derivative gains or losses 

excluded in the Company™s assessment of hedge effectiveness related to the fair value hedges.

Economic Hedging and Trading Activities

In addition to designated hedging relationships, the Company also enters into derivatives as an end user as a risk management 
tool to economically hedge risks associated with certain non-derivative and derivative instruments, along with entering into 

derivatives in a trading capacity with its clients.
The primary risks that the Company economically hedges are interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, and credit risk. Economic
 hedging objectives are accomplished by entering into offsetting derivatives either on an individual basis or collectively on a 

macro basis and generally accomplish the Company™s goal of mitigating the targeted risk. To the extent that specific derivative
s are associated with specific hedged items, the notional amounts, fair values, and gains/(losses) on the derivatives are illustr
ated in the tables in this footnote.Ł The Company utilizes interest rate derivatives to mitigate exposures from various instruments.
The Company is subject to interest rate risk on its fixed rate debt. As market interest rates move, the fair 

value of the Company™s debt is affected. To protect against this risk on certain debt issuances that the 

Company has elected to carry at fair value, the Company has entered into pay variable-receive fixed interest 

rate swaps that decrease in value in a rising rate environment and increase in value in a declining rate 

environment.The Company is exposed to risk on the returns of certain of its brokered deposits that are carried at fair 

value. To hedge against this risk, the Company has entered into interest rate derivatives that mirror the risk 

profile of the returns on these instruments.The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with MSRs, which the Company hedges with a 

combination of mortgage and interest rate derivatives, including forward and option contracts, futures, and 

forward rate agreements.The Company enters into mortgage and interest rate derivatives, including forward contracts, futures, and 
option contracts to mitigate interest rate risk associated with IRLCs and mortgage LHFS. Ł The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate risk associated with certain commercial loans.

Ł The Company enters into CDS to hedge credit risk associated with certain loans held within its Wholesale Banking 
segment. The Company accounts for these contracts as derivatives and, accordingly, recognizes these contracts at 

fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income.Ł Trading activity, as illustrated in the tables within this footnote, primarily includes interest rate swaps, equity 
derivatives, CDS, futures, options, foreign currency contracts, and commodities. These derivatives are entered into 

in a dealer capacity to facilitate client transactions or are utilized as a risk management tool by the Company as an 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued170end user in certain macro-hedging strategies. The macro-hedging strategies are focused on managing the Company™s 

overall interest rate risk exposure that is not otherwise hedged by derivatives or in connection with specific hedges 
and, therefore, the Company does not specifically associate individual derivatives with specific assets or liabilities.
NOTE 17 Œ GUARANTEES
The Company has undertaken certain guarantee obligations in the ordinary course of business. The issuance of a guarantee impose
s an obligation for the Company to stand ready to perform and make future payments should certain triggering events occur. Paymen
ts may be in the form of cash, financial instruments, other assets, shares of stock, or provisions of the Company™s services. The 

following is a discussion of the guarantees that the Company had issued at December 31, 2013. The Company has also entered 

into certain contracts that are similar to guarantees, but that are accounted for as derivatives as discussed in Note 16, ﬁDeri
vative Financial Instruments.ﬂLetters of Credit

Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Company, generally to guarantee the performance of a client to a 

third party in borrowing arrangements, such as CP, bond financing, and similar transactions. The credit risk involved in issuin
g letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to clients and may be reduced by sellin
g participations to third parties. The Company issues letters of credit that are classified as financial standby, performance sta
ndby, 
or commercial letters of credit.
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the maximum potential amount of the Company™s obligation was $3.3 billion and $4.0 billion, 

respectively, for issued financial and performance standby letters of credit. The Company™s outstanding letters of credit gener
ally have a term of less than one year but may extend longer. If a letter of credit is drawn upon, the Company may seek recourse 

through the client™s underlying obligation. If the client™s line of credit is also in default, the Company may take possession 
of the collateral securing the line of credit, where applicable. The Company monitors its credit exposure under standby letters of
 credit in the same manner as it monitors other extensions of credit in accordance with its credit policies. Some standby letter
s of credit are designed to be drawn upon and others are drawn upon only under circumstances of dispute or default in the 

underlying transaction to which the Company is not a party. In all cases, the Company holds the right to reimbursement from 

the applicant and may or may not also hold collateral to secure that right. An internal assessment of the PD and loss severity 

in the event of default is performed consistent with the methodologies used for all commercial borrowers. The management 

of credit risk regarding letters of credit leverages the risk rating process to focus higher visibility on the higher risk and/
or higher dollar letters of credit. The associated reserve is a component of the unfunded commitments reserve recorded in other 

liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and included in the allowance for credit losses as disclosed in Note 7, ﬁAllowan
ce for Credit Losses.ﬂ Additionally, unearned fees relating to letters of credit are recorded in other liabilities. The net carryi
ng amount of unearned fees was immaterial at December 31, 2013 and 2012.
Loan Sales
STM, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, originates and purchases residential mortgage loans, a portion of which are 

sold to outside investors in the normal course of business, through a combination of whole loan sales to GSEs, Ginnie Mae, 

and non-agency investors. Prior to 2008, the Company also sold loans through a limited number of Company sponsored 

securitizations. When mortgage loans are sold, representations and warranties regarding certain attributes of the loans sold ar
e made to these third party purchasers. Subsequent to the sale, if a material underwriting deficiency or documentation defect is 

discovered, STM may be obligated to repurchase the mortgage loan or to reimburse the investor for losses incurred (make 

whole requests) if such deficiency or defect cannot be cured by STM within the specified period following discovery. 

Additionally, defects in the securitization process or breaches of underwriting and servicing representations and warranties 

can result in loan repurchases, as well as adversely affect the valuation of MSRs, servicing advances, or other mortgage loan-

related exposures, such as OREO. These representations and warranties may extend through the life of the mortgage loan. 

STM™s risk of loss under its representations and warranties is largely driven by borrower payment performance since investors 

will perform extensive reviews of delinquent loans as a means of mitigating losses.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued171Loan repurchase requests generally arise from loans sold during the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2013, which 

totaled $295.6 billion at the time of sale, consisting of $230.9 billion and $30.3 billion of agency and non-agency loans, 

respectively, as well as $34.4 billion of loans sold to Ginnie Mae. The composition of the remaining outstanding balance by 

vintage and type of buyer at December 31, 2013, is shown in the following table:  Remaining Outstanding Balance by Year of Sale(Dollars in billions)200520062007200820092010201120122013Total    
GSE1$1.9$2.0$3.9$3.7$11.0$7.3$8.2$17.7$21.3$77.0
Ginnie Mae10.40.30.31.23.12.52.13.93.517.3
Non-agency3.24.73.1
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
11.0Total$5.5$7.0$7.3$4.9$14.1$9.8$10.3$21.6$24.8$105.3
1 Balances based on loans currently serviced by the Company and excludes loans serviced by others and certain loans in foreclosure.Non-agency loan sales include whole loans and loans sold in private securitization transactions. While representations and 

warranties have been made related to these sales, they can differ in many cases from those made in connection with loans sold 

to the GSEs in that non-agency loans may not be required to meet the same underwriting standards and non-agency investors 

may be required to demonstrate that the alleged breach was material and caused the investors' loss. Loans sold to Ginnie Mae 

are insured by either the FHA or VA. As servicer, we may elect to repurchase delinquent loans in accordance with Ginnie Mae 

guidelines; however, the loans continue to be insured. We indemnify the FHA and VA for losses related to loans not originated 

in accordance with their guidelines. See Note 19, "Contingencies," for additional information on current legal matters related 

to representations and warranties made in connection with loan sales (Residential Funding Company, LLC matter) and the 

HUD Investigation regarding origination practices for FHA loans.

Although the timing and volume has varied, repurchase and make whole requests have increased over the past several years. 
Repurchase requests from GSEs, Ginnie Mae, and non-agency investors, for all vintages, were $1.5 billion during the year 

ended December 31, 2013, and $1.7 billion during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and requests 

received since 2005 on a cumulative basis for all vintages totaled $8.5 billion. The majority of these requests were from GSEs,
 with a limited number of requests from non-agency investors. Repurchase requests from non-agency investors were $18 million, 

$22 million, and $50 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Additionally, loans 

originated during 2006 - 2008 have consistently comprised the vast majority of total repurchase requests during the past three 

years. 
The repurchase and make whole requests received have been primarily due to alleged material breaches of representations 

related to compliance with the applicable underwriting standards, including borrower misrepresentation and appraisal issues. 

STM performs a loan by loan review of all requests and contests demands to the extent they are not considered valid. 
At December 31, 2013, the original UPB of loans related to unresolved requests previously received from investors was $126 

million, comprised of $122 million from the GSEs and $4 million from non-agency investors. Comparable amounts at 

December 31, 2012, were $655 million, comprised of $639 million from the GSEs and $16 million from non-agency investors.

During the third quarter of 2013, the Company reached agreements with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae under which they 

released the Company from certain existing and future repurchase obligations for loans funded by Freddie Mac between 2000 

and 2008 and Fannie Mae between 2000 and 2012. While the majority of both repurchase settlements was covered by the 

Company's existing mortgage repurchase liability, the Company increased the reserve during 2013 by $63 million related to 

the settlement agreements with the GSEs. Also during 2013, the Company made payments to the GSEs in accordance with the 

terms of the agreements, resulting in a reserve balance of $78 million at December 31, 2013. 
A significant degree of judgment is used to estimate the mortgage repurchase liability as the estimation process is inherently 

uncertain and subject to imprecision. The Company believes that its reserve appropriately estimates incurred losses based on 

its current analysis and assumptions, inclusive of the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae settlement agreements, GSE owned loans 

serviced by third party servicers, loans sold to private investors, and future indemnifications. At December 31, 2013 and 2012,
 the Company's estimate of the liability for incurred losses related to all vintages of mortgage loans sold totaled $78 million 

and $632 million, respectively. However, the 2013 agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac settling certain aspects of 

the Company's repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases arising from certain types of events, and that
 preservation of rights can impact future losses of the Company. While the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of 

settling claims related to required repurchases, the Company's estimate of losses depends on its assumptions regarding GSE 

and other counterparty behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. The liability is recorded in other liabiliti
es Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued172in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the related repurchase provision is recognized in mortgage production related income/

(loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Part I., "Item 1A. Risk Factors," in this Form 10-K for further informatio
n regarding potential additional liability.

 
The following table summarizes the changes in the Company™s reserve for mortgage loan repurchases: 
 Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Balance at beginning of period$632$320$265
Repurchase provision114713502
Charge-offs(668)(401)(447)Balance at end of period$78$632$320
During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company repurchased or otherwise settled mortgages with original 

loan balances of $1.1 billion and $769 million, respectively, related to investor demands. At December 31, 2013, the carrying 

value of outstanding repurchased mortgage loans, net of any allowance for loan losses, was $339 million, comprised of $325 

million LHFI and $14 million LHFS, respectively, of which $54 million LHFI and $14 million LHFS, were nonperforming. 

At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of outstanding repurchased mortgage loans, net of any allowance for loan losses, 

was $240 million, comprised of $209 million LHFI and $31 million LHFS, respectively, of which $70 million LHFI and $31 

million LHFS, were nonperforming. 
The Company normally retains servicing rights when loans are transferred. As servicer, the Company makes representations 

and warranties that it will service the loans in accordance with investor servicing guidelines and standards which may include 

(i) collection and remittance of principal and interest, (ii) administration of escrow for taxes and insurance, (iii) advancing
 principal, interest, taxes, insurance, and collection expenses on delinquent accounts, (iv) loss mitigation strategies includin
g loan modifications, and (v) foreclosures. The Company recognizes a liability for contingent losses when MSRs are sold, which 

totaled $21 million and $12 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012. 
Contingent Consideration
The Company has contingent payment obligations related to certain business combination transactions. Payments are calculated 

using certain post-acquisition performance criteria. The potential obligation and amount recorded as a liability representing 

the fair value of the contingent payments was $26 million and $30 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If 

required, these contingent payments will be payable within the next three years.
Visa

The Company issues credit and debit transactions through Visa and MasterCard International. The Company is a defendant, 

along with Visa and MasterCard International (the ﬁCard Associationsﬂ), as well as several other banks, in one of several 

antitrust lawsuits challenging the practices of the Card Associations (the ﬁLitigationﬂ). The Company entered into judgment 

and loss sharing agreements with Visa and certain other banks in order to apportion financial responsibilities arising from any
 potential adverse judgment or negotiated settlements related to the Litigation. Additionally, in connection with Visa's 

restructuring in 2007, a provision of the original Visa By-Laws, Section 2.05j, was restated in Visa's certificate of incorpora
tion. Section 2.05j contains a general indemnification provision between a Visa member and Visa, and explicitly provides that after 

the closing of the restructuring, each member's indemnification obligation is limited to losses arising from its own conduct 

and the specifically defined Litigation. 
Agreements associated with Visa's IPO have provisions that Visa will fund a litigation escrow account, established for the 

purpose of funding judgments in, or settlements of, the Litigation. Since inception of the escrow account, Visa has funded over
 $8.5 billion into the escrow account, approximately $4.1 billion of which has been paid out in Litigation settlements and anoth
er $4.4 billion which was paid into a settlement fund during 2012. If the escrow account is insufficient to cover the Litigation 

losses, then Visa will issue additional Class A shares (ﬁloss sharesﬂ). The proceeds from the sale of the loss shares would the
n be deposited in the escrow account. The issuance of the loss shares will cause a dilution of Visa's Class B shares as a result 
of an adjustment to lower the conversion factor of the Class B shares to Class A shares. Visa U.S.A.'s members are responsible 

for any portion of the settlement or loss on the Litigation after the escrow account is depleted and the value of the Class B 

shares is fully-diluted. In May 2009, the Company sold its 3.2 million Class B shares to the Visa Counterparty and entered 

into a derivative with the Visa Counterparty. The Company received $112 million and recognized a gain of $112 million in 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued173connection with these transactions. Under the derivative, the Visa Counterparty is compensated by the Company for any decline 

in the conversion factor as a result of the outcome of the Litigation. Conversely, the Company is compensated by the Visa 

Counterparty for any increase in the conversion factor. The amount of payments made or received under the derivative is a 

function of the 3.2 million shares sold to the Visa Counterparty, the change in conversion rate, and Visa™s share price. The Vi
sa Counterparty, as a result of its ownership of the Class B shares, is impacted by dilutive adjustments to the conversion factor 

of the Class B shares caused by the Litigation losses. The conversion factor at the inception of the derivative in May 2009 was
 0.6296 and at December 31, 2013 the conversion factor was 0.4206 due to Visa™s funding of the litigation escrow account since 

2009. Decreases in the conversion factor triggered payments by the Company to the Visa Counterparty of $0, $26 million and 

$8 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  

During 2012, the Card Associations and defendants signed a memorandum of understanding to enter into a settlement agreement 

to resolve the plaintiffs' claims in the Litigation. Visa's share of the claims represents approximately $4.4 billion, which wa
s paid from the escrow account into a settlement fund during 2012. During 2013, various members of the putative class elected 

to opt out of the settlement. This will result in a proportional decrease in the amount of the settlement. While the estimated 

fair value of the derivative liability was immaterial at December 31, 2013 and 2012, the ultimate impact to the Company could 

be significantly different if the settlement is not approved and/or based on the ultimate resolution with the plaintiffs that o
pted out of the settlement. 
Tax Credit Investments Sold

SunTrust Community Capital, one of the Company's subsidiaries, previously obtained state and federal tax credits through the 

construction and development of affordable housing properties and continues to obtain state and federal tax credits through 

investments in affordable housing developments. SunTrust Community Capital or its subsidiaries are limited and/or general 

partners in various partnerships established for the properties. Some of the investments that generate state tax credits may be sold to outside investors. At December 31, 2013, SunTrust Community Capital has completed six sales containing guarantee 

provisions stating that SunTrust Community Capital will make payment to the outside investors if the tax credits become 

ineligible. SunTrust Community Capital also guarantees that the general partner under the transaction will perform on the 

delivery of the credits. The guarantees are expected to expire within a fifteen year period from inception. At December 31, 

2013, the maximum potential amount that SunTrust Community Capital could be obligated to pay under these guarantees is 

$37 million; however, SunTrust Community Capital can seek recourse against the general partner. Additionally, SunTrust 

Community Capital can seek reimbursement from cash flow and residual values of the underlying affordable housing properties 

provided that the properties retain value. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, $1 million and $3 million, respectively, was accrued,
 representing the remainder of tax credits to be delivered, and were recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets.
Public Deposits
The Company holds public deposits from various states in which it does business. Individual state laws require banks to 

collateralize public deposits, typically as a percentage of their public deposit balance in excess of FDIC insurance and may 

also require a cross-guarantee among all banks holding public deposits of the individual state. The amount of collateral requir
ed varies by state and may also vary by institution within each state, depending on the individual state's risk assessment of 

depository institutions. Certain of the states in which the Company holds public deposits use a pooled collateral method, 

whereby in the event of default of a bank holding public deposits, the collateral of the defaulting bank is liquidated to the e
xtent necessary to recover the loss of public deposits of the defaulting bank. To the extent the collateral is insufficient, the rema
ining public deposit balances of the defaulting bank are recovered through an assessment of the other banks holding public deposits 

in that state. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make is dependent on a 

variety of factors, including the amount of public funds held by banks in the states in which the Company also holds public 

deposits and the amount of collateral coverage associated with any defaulting bank. Individual states appear to be monitoring 

this risk relative to the current economic environment and evaluating collateral requirements; therefore, the likelihood that t
he Company would have to perform under this guarantee is dependent on whether any banks holding public funds default as well 

as the adequacy of collateral coverage. Other
In the normal course of business, the Company enters into indemnification agreements and provides standard representations 

and warranties in connection with numerous transactions. These transactions include those arising from securitization activitie
s, underwriting agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, swap clearing agreements, loan sales, contractual commitments, 

payment processing, sponsorship agreements, and various other business transactions or arrangements. The extent of the 

Company's obligations under these indemnification agreements depends upon the occurrence of future events; therefore, the 

Company's potential future liability under these arrangements is not determinable.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued174STIS and STRH, broker-dealer affiliates of the Company, use a common third-party clearing broker to clear and execute their 

customers' securities transactions and to hold customer accounts. Under their respective agreements, STIS and STRH agree 

to indemnify the clearing broker for losses that result from a customer's failure to fulfill its contractual obligations. As th
e clearing broker's rights to charge STIS and STRH have no maximum amount, the Company believes that the maximum potential 

obligation cannot be estimated. However, to mitigate exposure, the affiliate may seek recourse from the customer through cash 

or securities held in the defaulting customers' account. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, STIS and 

STRH experienced minimal net losses as a result of the indemnity. The clearing agreements expire in May 2015 for both STIS 

and STRH.NOTE 18 - FAIR VALUE ELECTION AND MEASUREMENT

The Company carries certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis and appropriately classifies them as leve
l 1, 2, or 3 within the fair value hierarchy. The Company™s recurring fair value measurements are based on a requirement to 

carry such assets and liabilities at fair value or the Company™s election to carry certain financial assets and liabilities at 
fair value. Assets and liabilities that are required to be carried at fair value on a recurring basis include trading securities, se
curities AFS, and derivative financial instruments. Assets and liabilities that the Company has elected to carry at fair value on a 

recurring basis include certain LHFS and LHFI, MSRs, certain brokered time deposits, and certain issuances of fixed rate 

debt.
In certain circumstances, fair value enables a company to more accurately align its financial performance with the economic 

value of actively traded or hedged assets or liabilities. Fair value also enables a company to mitigate the non-economic earnin
gs volatility caused from financial assets and liabilities being carried at different bases of accounting, as well as, to more acc
urately portray the active and dynamic management of a company™s balance sheet.

Depending on the nature of the asset or liability, the Company uses various valuation techniques and assumptions in estimating 

fair value. The assumptions used to estimate the value of an instrument have varying degrees of impact to the overall fair 

value of the asset or liability. This process involves the gathering of multiple sources of information, including broker quote
s, values provided by pricing services, trading activity in other similar securities, market indices, pricing matrices along with 

employing various modeling techniques, such as discounted cash flow analyses, in arriving at the best estimate of fair value. 

Any model used to produce material financial reporting information is required to have a satisfactory independent review 

performed on an annual basis, or more frequently, when significant modifications to the functionality of the model are made. 

This review is performed by an internal group that separately reports to the Corporate Risk Function. 
The Company has formal processes and controls in place to ensure the appropriateness of all fair value estimates. For fair 

values obtained from a third party or those that include certain trader estimates of fair value, there is an internal independe
nt price validation function within the Finance organization that provides oversight for fair value estimates. For level 2 instrum
ents and certain level 3 instruments, the validation generally involves evaluating pricing received from two or more other third 

party pricing sources that are widely used by market participants. The Company reviews pricing validation information from 

both a qualitative and quantitative perspective and determines whether pricing differences exceed acceptable thresholds. If 

the pricing differences exceed acceptable thresholds, then the Company reviews differences in valuation approaches used, 

which may include contacting a pricing service to gain further information on the valuation of a particular security or class 

of securities to determine the ultimate resolution of the pricing variance, which could include an adjustment to the price used
 for financial reporting purposes.
The Company classifies instruments as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy if it is able to determine that external pricing sour
ces are using similar instruments trading in the markets as the basis for estimating fair value. One way the Company determines 

this is by the number of pricing services that will provide a quote on the instrument along with the range of values provided 
by those pricing services. A wide range of quoted values may indicate that significant adjustments to the trades in the market 

are being made by the pricing services. The Company maintains a cross-functional approach if the fair value estimates for 

level 3 securities AFS and trading assets and liabilities are internally developed, since the selection of unobservable inputs 
is subjective. This cross-functional approach includes input on assumptions not only from the related business unit, but also 

from risk management and finance. A consensus of the estimate of the instrument's fair value is reached after evaluating all 

available information pertaining to fair value. Inputs, assumptions, and overall conclusions on internally priced level 3 

valuations are formally documented on a quarterly basis. This cross-functional approach is limited primarily to the remaining 

ARS instruments that are valued internally.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued175The classification of an instrument as level 3 involves judgment and is based on a variety of subjective factors. These factors
 are used in the assessment of whether a market is inactive, resulting in the application of significant unobservable assumption
s in the valuation of a financial instrument. A market is considered inactive if significant decreases in the volume and level of
 activity for the asset or liability have been observed. In determining whether a market is inactive, the Company evaluates such
 factors as the number of recent transactions in either the primary or secondary markets, whether price quotations are current, 

the nature of the market participants, the variability of price quotations, the significance of bid/ask spreads, declines in (o
r the absence of) new issuances, and the availability of public information. Inactive markets necessitate the use of additional 

judgment in valuing financial instruments, such as pricing matrices, cash flow modeling, and the selection of an appropriate 
discount rate. The assumptions used to estimate the value of an instrument where the market was inactive are based on the 

Company™s assessment of the assumptions a market participant would use to value the instrument in an orderly transaction 

and includes consideration of illiquidity in the current market environment.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued176Recurring Fair Value Measurements

The following tables present certain information regarding assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis 

and the changes in fair value for those specific financial instruments in which fair value has been elected.December 31, 2013 Fair Value Measurements  (Dollars in millions)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Netting Adjustments 
1Assets/Liabilitiesat Fair Value
Assets
Trading assets and derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities$219$Š$Š$Š$219
Federal agency securitiesŠ426ŠŠ426
U.S. states and political subdivisionsŠ65ŠŠ65
MBS - agencyŠ323ŠŠ323
CDO/CLO securitiesŠ354Š57
ABSŠŠ6Š6
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ534ŠŠ534
CPŠ29ŠŠ29
Equity securities109ŠŠŠ109
Derivative contracts 28285,28512(4,741)1,384
Trading loansŠ1,888ŠŠ1,888
Total trading assets and derivatives1,1568,55372(4,741)5,040
Securities AFS:U.S. Treasury securities1,293ŠŠŠ1,293
Federal agency securitiesŠ984ŠŠ984
U.S. states and political subdivisionsŠ20334Š237
MBS - agencyŠ18,911ŠŠ18,911
MBS - privateŠŠ154Š154
ABSŠ5821Š79
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ375Š42
Other equity securities 3103Š739Š842
Total securities AFS1,39620,193953Š22,542
LHFS:Residential loansŠ1,1143Š1,117
Corporate and other loansŠ261ŠŠ261
Total LHFSŠ1,3753Š1,378
LHFIŠŠ302Š302
MSRsŠŠ1,300Š1,300
Liabilities
Trading liabilities and derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities472ŠŠŠ472
Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ179ŠŠ179
Equity securities5ŠŠŠ5
Derivative contracts 25025,1674(5,148)525
Total trading liabilities and derivatives9795,3464(5,148)1,181
Brokered time depositsŠ764ŠŠ764
Long-term debtŠ1,556ŠŠ1,556
Other liabilities 4ŠŠ29Š29
1 Amounts represent offsetting cash collateral received from and paid to the same derivative counterparties and the impact of net
ting derivative assets and 
derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement exists. 2 These amounts include IRLCs and derivative financial instruments entered into by the Mortgage Banking segment to hedge its inte
rest rate risk. See Note 
16, "Derivative Financial Instruments," for further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities. 3 
Includes $336 million of FHLB of Atlanta stock, $402 million of Federal Reserve Bank stock, $103 million in mutual fund investm
ents, and $1 million of other. 
4 Includes contingent consideration obligations related to acquisitions, as well as the derivative associated with the Company's 
sale of Visa shares during the 
year ended December 31, 2009.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued177December 31, 2012 Fair Value Measurements  
(Dollars in millions)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Netting Adjustments 
1Assets/Liabilitiesat Fair Value
Assets
Trading assets and derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities$111$Š$Š$Š$111

Federal agency securitiesŠ462ŠŠ462

U.S. states and political subdivisionsŠ34ŠŠ34

MBS - agencyŠ432ŠŠ432

CDO/CLO securitiesŠ352Š55

ABSŠ315Š36

Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ5661Š567

CPŠ28ŠŠ28

Equity securities100ŠŠŠ100

Derivative contracts 2, 34858,039132(6,573)2,083
Trading loansŠ2,319ŠŠ2,319
Total trading assets and derivatives69611,914190(6,573)6,227

Securities AFS:U.S. Treasury securities222ŠŠŠ222

Federal agency securitiesŠ2,069ŠŠ2,069

U.S. states and political subdivisionsŠ27446Š320

MBS - agencyŠ18,169ŠŠ18,169

MBS - privateŠŠ209Š209

ABSŠ19521Š216

Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ415Š46

Other equity securities 469Š633Š702
Total securities AFS29120,748914Š21,953

LHFS:Residential loansŠ2,9168Š2,924

Corporate and other loansŠ319ŠŠ319
Total LHFSŠ3,2358Š3,243

LHFIŠŠ379Š379

MSRsŠŠ899Š899
Liabilities
Trading liabilities and derivatives:U.S. Treasury securities582ŠŠŠ582

Corporate and other debt securitiesŠ173ŠŠ173

Equity securities9ŠŠŠ9

Derivative contracts 2, 33007,214Š(7,102)412
Total trading liabilities and derivatives8917,387Š(7,102)1,176

Brokered time depositsŠ832ŠŠ832

Long-term debtŠ1,622ŠŠ1,622

Other liabilities 5ŠŠ31Š31
1 Amounts represent offsetting cash collateral received from and paid to the same derivative counterparties and the impact of net
ting derivative assets and 
derivative liabilities when a legally enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement exists.2 These amounts include IRLCs and derivative financial instruments entered into by the Mortgage Banking segment to hedge its inte
rest rate risk. See Note 
16, "Derivative Financial Instruments," for further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities.3 Certain derivative assets of $178 million and derivative liabilities of $15 million have been reclassified to trading assets a
nd derivatives and trading liabilities 
and derivatives, respectively, at December 31, 2012, for comparability to the same classification of these assets and liabiliti
es at December 31, 2013. 
Previously, these derivative assets and liabilities were recorded in other assets and other liabilities, respectively.
4 Includes $229 million of FHLB of Atlanta stock, $402 million of Federal Reserve Bank stock, $69 million in mutual fund investme
nts, and $2 million of 
other. 
5 Includes contingent consideration obligations related to acquisitions, as well as the derivative associated with the Company's 
sale of Visa shares during the 
year ended December 31, 2009.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued178The following tables present the difference between the aggregate fair value and the UPB of trading loans, LHFS, LHFI, 

brokered time deposits, and long-term debt instruments for which the FVO has been elected. For LHFS and LHFI for which 

the FVO has been elected, the tables also include the difference between aggregate fair value and the UPB of loans that are 

90 days or more past due, as well as loans in nonaccrual status.(Dollars in millions)Aggregate Fair Value at
December 31, 2013
Aggregate Unpaid Principal
Balance under FVO at
December 31, 2013
Fair Value
Over/(Under)Unpaid PrincipalAssets:Trading loans$1,888$1,858$30
LHFS1,3751,35916
Past due loans of 90 days or more12(1)Nonaccrual loans215
(13)LHFI294317
(23)Nonaccrual loans812
(4)Liabilities:Brokered time deposits7647613
Long-term debt1,5561,432124
(Dollars in millions)Aggregate Fair Value atDecember 31, 2012Aggregate Unpaid PrincipalBalance under FVO atDecember 31, 2012Fair Value
Over/(Under)Unpaid PrincipalAssets:Trading loans$2,319$2,285$34

LHFS3,2373,109128
Past due loans of 90 days or more35
(2)Nonaccrual loans312
(9)LHFI360371
(11)Past due loans of 90 days or more13
(2)Nonaccrual loans1828
(10)Liabilities:Brokered time deposits8328257

Long-term debt1,6221,462160
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued179The following tables present the change in fair value during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, of financial 

instruments for which the FVO has been elected, as well as MSRs. The tables do not reflect the change in fair value attributabl
e to the related economic hedges the Company used to mitigate the market-related risks associated with the financial instruments.
 Generally, the changes in the fair value of economic hedges are also recognized in trading income, mortgage production related 

income/(loss), or mortgage servicing related income, as appropriate, and are designed to partially offset the change in fair 

value of the financial instruments referenced in the tables below. The Company™s economic hedging activities are deployed 

at both the instrument and portfolio level.Fair Value Gain/(Loss) for the Year Ended
December 31, 2013, for Items Measured at Fair Value
Pursuant to Election of the FVO
(Dollars in millions)Trading
IncomeMortgageProduction
Related  Income/(Loss) 1MortgageServicingRelatedIncomeTotal Changes
in Fair Values  
Included inCurrent 
Period  Earnings 2Assets:Trading loans$13$Š$Š$13
LHFS1(135)Š(134)
LHFIŠ(10)Š(10)
MSRsŠ45054
 Liabilities:Brokered time deposits8ŠŠ8
Long-term debt36ŠŠ36
1 Income related to LHFS does not include income from IRLCs. For the year ended December 31, 2013, income related to MSRs include
s MSRs recognized 
upon the sale of loans reported at LOCOM. 2 Changes in fair value for the year ended December 31, 2013 exclude accrued interest for the period then ended. Interest income 
or interest expense on trading loans, LHFS, LHFI, brokered time deposits, and long-term debt that have been elected to be carried at fair value are re
cognized in interest income 
or interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.Fair Value Gain/(Loss) for the Year Ended
December 31, 2012, for Items Measured at Fair Value
Pursuant to Election of the FVO(Dollars in millions)Trading
IncomeMortgageProductionRelated  Income/(Loss) 1MortgageServicingRelatedIncomeTotal Changes
in Fair Values  
Included inCurrentPeriod  Earnings 2Assets:Trading loans$8$Š$Š$8

LHFS10161Š171
LHFI120Š21
MSRsŠ31(353)(322)
 Liabilities:Brokered time deposits5ŠŠ5

Long-term debt(65)ŠŠ(65)
1 Income related to LHFS does not include income from IRLCs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, income related to MSRs include
s MSRs recognized 
upon the sale of loans reported at LOCOM. 2 Changes in fair value for the year ended December 31, 2012 exclude accrued interest for the period then ended. Interest income 
or interest expense on trading loans, LHFS, LHFI, brokered time deposits, and long-term debt that have been elected to be carried at fair value are re
cognized in interest income 
or interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued180Fair Value Gain/(Loss) for the Year Ended
December 31, 2011, for Items Measured at Fair Value
Pursuant to Election of the FVO(Dollars in millions)TradingincomeMortgageProduction  Related  Income/(Loss) 1 MortgageServicing  RelatedIncomeTotal Changes
in Fair Values  
Included inCurrentPeriod  Earnings 2Assets:Trading loans$21$Š$Š$21

LHFS(10)179Š169
LHFI311Š14
MSRsŠ7(733)(726)
 Liabilities:Brokered time deposits32ŠŠ32

Long-term debt(12)ŠŠ(12)
1 Income related to LHFS does not include income from IRLCs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, income related to MSRs include
s MSRs recognized upon the sale of loans reported at LOCOM. 2 Changes in fair value for the year ended December 31, 2011 exclude accrued interest for the period then ended. Interest income 
or interest expense on trading loans, LHFS, LHFI, brokered time deposits, and long-term debt that have been elected to be carried at fair value are re
cognized in interest income 
or interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.The following is a discussion of the valuation techniques and inputs used in developing fair value measurements for assets 

and liabilities classified as level 2 or 3 that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, based on the class of asset or
 liability 
as determined by the nature and risks of the instrument.
Trading Assets and Derivatives and Securities Available for Sale

Unless otherwise indicated, trading assets are priced by the trading desk and securities AFS are valued by an independent 

third party pricing service. Federal agency securities
The Company includes in this classification securities issued by federal agencies and GSEs. Agency securities consist 

of debt obligations issued by HUD, FHLB, and other agencies or collateralized by loans that are guaranteed by the 
SBA and are, therefore, backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. For SBA instruments, the Company 

estimated fair value based on pricing from observable trading activity for similar securities or obtained fair values 

from a third party pricing service; accordingly, the Company has classified these instruments as level 2.

U.S. states and political subdivisions
The Company™s investments in U.S. states and political subdivisions (collectively ﬁmunicipalsﬂ) include obligations 

of county and municipal authorities and agency bonds, which are general obligations of the municipality or are 

supported by a specified revenue source. Holdings were geographically dispersed, with no significant concentrations 

in any one state or municipality. Additionally, all but an immaterial amount of AFS municipal obligations classified 

as level 2 are highly rated or are otherwise collateralized by securities backed by the full faith and credit of the federal 

government.
Level 3 AFS municipal securities includes ARS purchased since the auction rate market began failing in February 

2008 and have been considered level 3 securities due to the significant decrease in the volume and level of activity 
in these markets, which has necessitated the use of significant unobservable inputs into the Company™s valuations. 

These securities were valued based on comparisons to similar ARS for which auctions are currently successful and/

or to longer term, non-ARS issued by similar municipalities. The Company also evaluated the relative strength of 

the municipality and made appropriate downward adjustments in price based on the credit rating of the municipality 

as well as the relative financial strength of the insurer on those bonds. Although auctions for several municipal ARS 

have been operating successfully, ARS owned by the Company at December 31, 2013, continued to be classified as 

level 3 as they are those ARS for which the auctions continued to fail; accordingly, due to the uncertainty around the 

success rates for auctions and the absence of any successful auctions for these identical securities, the Company 

continued to price the ARS below par. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, the Company sold these remaining ARS 

securities.
Level 3 AFS municipal securities also include bonds that are only redeemable with the issuer at par and cannot be 

traded in the market. As such, no significant observable market data for these instruments is available. To estimate 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued181pricing on these securities, the Company utilized a third party municipal bond yield curve for the lowest investment 

grade bonds and priced each bond based on the yield associated with that maturity.

MBS Œ agency
Agency MBS includes pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by GSEs and U.S. 

government agencies, such as Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae. Each security contains a guarantee by the 

issuing GSE or agency. For agency MBS, the Company estimated fair value based on pricing from observable trading 

activity for similar securities or obtained fair values from a third party pricing service; accordingly, the Company 

has classified these instruments as level 2.
MBS Œ private
Private MBS includes purchased interests in third party securitizations, as well as retained interests in Company-

sponsored securitizations of 2006 and 2007 vintage residential mortgages; including both prime jumbo fixed rate 

collateral and floating rate collateral. At the time of purchase or origination, these securities had high investment 

grade ratings; however, through the credit crisis, they have experienced a deterioration in credit quality leading to 

downgrades to non-investment grade levels. Generally, the Company obtains pricing for its securities from an 

independent pricing service. The Company evaluates third party pricing to determine the reasonableness of the 

information relative to changes in market data, such as any recent trades, market information received from outside 

market participants and analysts, and/or changes in the underlying collateral performance. Even though third party 

pricing has been available, the Company continued to classify private MBS as level 3, as the Company believes that 

this third party pricing relies on significant unobservable assumptions, as evidenced by a persistently wide bid-ask 

price range and variability in pricing from the pricing services, particularly for the vintage and exposures held by 

the Company. 

Securities that are classified as AFS and are in an unrealized loss position are included as part of the Company's 

quarterly OTTI evaluation process. See Note 5, ﬁSecurities Available for Sale,ﬂ for details regarding assumptions 

used to assess impairment and impairment amounts recognized through earnings on private MBS.
CDO/CLO securities
The Company™s investments in level 3 trading CDOs consisted of senior ARS interests in Company-sponsored 

securitizations of trust preferred collateral. The auctions related to these securities continue to fail and the Company 

continues to make significant adjustments to valuation assumptions based on information available from observable 

secondary market trading of similar term securities; therefore, the Company continues to classify these as level 3 

investments. The Company values these interests utilizing a pricing matrix based on a range of overcollateralization 

levels that is periodically updated based on discussions with the dealer community along with limited trade data. 

Under this modified approach, at December 31, 2013 all CDO ARS were valued using a simplified discounted cash 

flow approach that prices the securities to their expected maturity. The primary inputs and assumptions considered 

by the Company in valuing these retained interests were overcollateralization levels (impacted by credit losses) and 

the discount margin over LIBOR. See the level 3 assumptions table in this note, as well as Note 10, "Certain Transfers 

of Financial Assets and Variable Interest Entities," for discussion of the sensitivity of these interests to changes in 

the assumptions. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, the Company sold all of its level 3 investments in trading CDOs.

Asset-Backed Securities
Level 2 ABS classified as securities AFS are primarily interests collateralized by third party securitizations of 2009 

through 2011 vintage auto loans. These ABS are either publicly traded or are 144A privately placed bonds. The 

Company utilizes an independent pricing service to obtain fair values for publicly traded securities and similar 

securities for estimating the fair value of the privately placed bonds. No significant unobservable assumptions were 

used in pricing the auto loan ABS; therefore, the Company classified these bonds as level 2. Level 3 ABS classified 

as securities AFS are valued based on third party pricing with significant unobservable assumptions. Additionally, 

any trading ARS are classified as level 2 due to observable market trades and bids for similar senior securities. These 

ARS consisted of student loan ABS that were generally collateralized by FFELP student loans, the majority of which 

benefited from a maximum guarantee amount of 97%. During 2013, the Company sold the remaining senior student 

loan ARS. For valuations of subordinate securities in the same structure, the Company adjusts valuations on the 

senior securities based on the likelihood that the issuer will refinance in the near term, a security™s level of subordination 

in the structure, and/or the perceived risk of the issuer as determined by credit ratings or total leverage of the trust. 

These adjustments may be significant; therefore, the subordinate student loan ARS held as trading assets continue 

to be classified as level 3.
Corporate and other debt securities
Corporate debt securities are predominantly comprised of senior and subordinate debt obligations of domestic 

corporations and are classified as level 2. Other debt securities in level 3 primarily include bonds that are redeemable 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued182with the issuer at par and cannot be traded in the market; as such, no significant observable market data for these 

instruments is available.
Commercial Paper

From time to time, the Company trades third party CP that is generally short-term in nature (less than 30 days) and 

highly rated. The Company estimates the fair value of this CP based on observable pricing from executed trades of 

similar instruments; thus, CP is classified as level 2.

Equity securities
Level 3 equity securities classified as securities AFS include FHLB stock and Federal Reserve Bank stock, which 

are redeemable with the issuer at cost and cannot be traded in the market. As such, no significant observable market 

data for these instruments is available. The Company accounts for the stock based on industry guidance that requires 

these investments be carried at cost and evaluated for impairment based on the ultimate recovery of cost. 
Derivative contracts
The Company holds derivative instruments used for both trading purposes and risk management purposes. 
Level 1 derivative contracts generally include exchange-traded futures or option contracts for which pricing is readily 

available. The Company™s level 2 instruments are predominantly standard OTC swaps, options, and forwards, with 

underlying market variables of interest rates, foreign exchange, equity, and credit. Because fair values for OTC 

contracts are not readily available, the Company estimates fair values using internal, but standard, valuation models 

that incorporate market-observable inputs. The valuation model is driven by the type of contract: for option-based 

products, the Company uses an appropriate option pricing model, such as Black-Scholes; for forward-based products, 

the Company™s valuation methodology is generally a discounted cash flow approach. The primary drivers of the fair 

values of derivative instruments are the underlying variables, such as interest rates, exchange rates, equity, or credit. 

As such, the Company uses market-based assumptions for all of its significant inputs, such as interest rate yield 

curves, quoted exchange rates and spot prices, market implied volatilities, and credit curves.
Level 2 derivative instruments are primarily transacted in the institutional dealer market and priced with observable 

market assumptions at a mid-market valuation point, with appropriate valuation adjustments for liquidity and credit 

risk. For purposes of valuation adjustments to its derivative positions, the Company has evaluated liquidity premiums 

that may be demanded by market participants, as well as the credit risk of its counterparties and its own credit. The 

Company has considered factors such as the likelihood of default by itself and its counterparties, its net exposures, 

and remaining maturities in determining the appropriate fair value adjustments to record. Generally, the expected 

loss of each counterparty is estimated using the Company's proprietary internal risk rating system. The risk rating 

system utilizes counterparty-specific probabilities of default and LGD estimates to derive the expected loss. For 

counterparties that are rated by national rating agencies, those ratings are also considered in estimating the credit 

risk. In addition, counterparty exposure is evaluated by netting positions that are subject to master netting 

arrangements, as well as considering the amount of marketable collateral securing the position. Specifically approved 

counterparties and exposure limits are defined. Creditworthiness of the approved counterparties is regularly reviewed 

and appropriate business action is taken to adjust the exposure to certain counterparties, as necessary. This approach 

used to estimate exposures to counterparties is also used by the Company to estimate its own credit risk on derivative 

liability positions. See Note 16, ﬁDerivative Financial Instruments,
ﬂ for additional information on the Company's 
derivative contracts.
The Company's level 3 derivatives include IRLCs that satisfy the criteria to be treated as derivative financial 

instruments. The fair value of IRLCs on residential LHFS, while based on interest rates observable in the market, is 

highly dependent on the ultimate closing of the loans. These ﬁpull-throughﬂ rates are based on the Company™s historical 

data and reflect the Company™s best estimate of the likelihood that a commitment will ultimately result in a closed 

loan. As pull-through rates increase, the fair value of IRLCs also increases. Servicing value is included in the fair 

value of IRLCs, and the fair value of servicing is determined by projecting cash flows which are then discounted to 

estimate an expected fair value. The fair value of servicing is impacted by a variety of factors, including prepayment 

assumptions, discount rates, delinquency rates, contractually specified servicing fees, servicing costs, and underlying 

portfolio characteristics. Because these inputs are not transparent in market trades, IRLCs are considered to be level 

3 assets. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company transferred $222 million and $882 

million, respectively, of IRLCs out of level 3 as the associated loans were closed. 

Trading loans

The Company engages in certain businesses whereby the election to carry loans at fair value for financial reporting 

aligns with the underlying business purpose. Specifically, the loans that are included within this classification are: 

(i) loans made or acquired in connection with the Company™s TRS business (see Note 10, "Certain Transfers of 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued183Financial Assets and Variable Interest Entities," and Note 16, ﬁDerivative Financial Instruments,ﬂ for further 

discussion of this business), (ii) loans backed by the SBA, and (iii) the loan sales and trading business within the 

Company™s Wholesale Banking segment. All of these loans are classified as level 2, due to the market data that the 

Company uses in the estimate of fair value.
The loans made in connection with the Company™s TRS business are short-term, demand loans, whereby the repayment 

is senior in priority and whose value is collateralized. While these loans do not trade in the market, the Company 

believes that the par amount of the loans approximates fair value and no unobservable assumptions are made by the 

Company to arrive at this conclusion. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had outstanding $1.5 billion 

and $1.9 billion, respectively, of such short-term loans carried at fair value.

SBA loans are similar to SBA securities discussed herein under ﬁFederal agency securities,ﬂ except for their legal 

form. In both cases, the Company trades instruments that are fully guaranteed by the U.S. government as to contractual 

principal and interest and there is sufficient observable trading activity upon which to base the estimate of fair value. 

As these SBA loans are fully guaranteed, the changes in fair value are attributable to factors other than instrument-

specific credit risk.
The loans from the Company™s sales and trading business are commercial and corporate leveraged loans that are 

either traded in the market or for which similar loans trade. The Company elected to carry these loans at fair value 

since they are actively traded. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company recognized 

gains of $5 million and $3 million, and losses of $3 million, respectively, in fair value attributable to instrument-

specific credit risk in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company is able to obtain fair value estimates for 

substantially all of these loans through a third party valuation service that is broadly used by market participants. 

While most of the loans are traded in the market, the Company does not believe that trading activity qualifies the 

loans as level 1 instruments, as the volume and level of trading activity is subject to variability and the loans are not 

exchange-traded, such that the Company believes that level 2 is a more appropriate presentation of the underlying 

market activity for the loans. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, $313 million and $357 million, respectively, of loans 

related to the Company™s trading business were held in inventory. 
Loans Held for Sale and Loans Held for Investment
Residential LHFS
The Company values certain newly-originated mortgage LHFS predominantly at fair value based upon defined 

product criteria. The Company chooses to fair value these mortgage LHFS to eliminate the complexities and inherent 

difficulties of achieving hedge accounting and to better align reported results with the underlying economic changes 

in value of the loans and related hedge instruments. Origination fees and costs are recognized in earnings when earned 

or incurred. The servicing value is included in the fair value of the loan and initially recognized at the time the 

Company enters into IRLCs with borrowers. The Company uses derivatives to economically hedge changes in interest 

rates and servicing value in the fair value of the loan. The mark-to-market adjustments related to LHFS and the 

associated economic hedges are captured in mortgage production related income/(loss).
Level 2 LHFS are primarily agency loans which trade in active secondary markets and are priced using current market 

pricing for similar securities adjusted for servicing, interest rate risk, and credit risk. Non-agency residential mortgages 

are also included in level 2 LHFS. As disclosed in the tabular level 3 rollforwards, transfers of certain mortgage 

LHFS into level 3 during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were not due to using alternative valuation 
approaches, but were largely due to borrower defaults or the identification of other loan defects impacting the 

marketability of the loans.
For residential loans that the Company has elected to carry at fair value, the Company considers the component of 

the fair value changes due to instrument-specific credit risk, which is intended to be an approximation of the fair 

value change attributable to changes in borrower-specific credit risk. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 

and 2011, the Company recognized losses of $2 million, gains of $12 million, and losses of $15 million, respectively, 

due to changes in fair value attributable to borrower-specific credit risk in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

In addition to borrower-specific credit risk, there are other, more significant, variables that drive changes in the fair 

values of the loans, including interest rates and general conditions in the principal markets for the loans.
Corporate and other LHFS
As discussed in Note 10, ﬁCertain Transfers of Financial Assets and Variable Interest Entities,ﬂ the Company has 

determined that it is the primary beneficiary of a CLO vehicle, which resulted in the Company consolidating the 

loans of that vehicle. Because the CLO trades its loans from time to time and to fairly present the economics of the 
CLO, the Company elected to carry the loans of the CLO at fair value. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued184and 2011, the Company recognized gains of $1 million and $10 million, and losses of $4 million, respectively, due 

to changes in fair value attributable to borrower-specific credit risk in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The 

Company obtains fair value estimates for substantially all of these loans using a third party valuation service that is 

broadly used by market participants. While most of the loans are traded in the markets, the Company does not believe 

the loans qualify as level 1 instruments, as the volume and level of trading activity is subject to variability and the 

loans are not exchange-traded, such that the Company believes that level 2 is more representative of the general 

market activity for the loans. 
LHFI
Level 3 LHFI predominantly includes mortgage loans that are deemed not marketable, largely due to the identification 

of loan defects. The Company values these loans using a discounted cash flow approach based on assumptions that 

are generally not observable in the current markets, such as prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severity rates, and 

discount rates. These assumptions have an inverse relationship to the overall fair value. Level 3 LHFI also includes 

mortgage loans that are valued using collateral based pricing. Changes in the applicable housing price index since 

the time of the loan origination are considered and applied to the loan's collateral value. An additional discount 

representing the return that a buyer would require is also considered in the overall fair value. Other Intangible Assets

Other intangible assets that the Company records at fair value are the Company™s MSR assets. The fair values of MSRs are 

determined by projecting cash flows, which are then discounted to estimate an expected fair value. The fair values of MSRs 

are impacted by a variety of factors, including prepayment assumptions, discount rates, delinquency rates, contractually 

specified servicing fees, servicing costs, and underlying portfolio characteristics. For additional information, see Note 9, 

"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The underlying assumptions and estimated values are corroborated by values received 

from independent third parties based on their review of the servicing portfolio. Because these inputs are not transparent in 

market trades, MSRs are considered to be level 3 assets.
LiabilitiesTrading liabilities and derivatives

Trading liabilities are primarily comprised of derivative contracts, but also include various contracts involving U.S. 

Treasury securities, equity securities, and corporate and other debt securities that the Company uses in certain of its 

trading businesses. The Company employs the same valuation methodologies for these derivative contracts and 

securities as are discussed within the corresponding sections herein under ﬁTrading Assets and Derivatives and 

Securities Available for Sale.ﬂ

Brokered time deposits

The Company has elected to measure certain CDs at fair value. These debt instruments include embedded derivatives 

that are generally based on underlying equity securities or equity indices, but may be based on other underlyings that 

may or may not be clearly and closely related to the host debt instrument. The Company elected to carry certain of 

these instruments at fair value to better align the economics of the CDs with the Company™s risk management strategies. 

The Company evaluated, on an instrument by instrument basis, whether a new issuance would be carried at fair value.

The Company classified these CDs as level 2 instruments due to the Company™s ability to reasonably measure all 

significant inputs based on observable market variables. The Company employs a discounted cash flow approach to 

the host debt component of the CD, based on observable market interest rates for the term of the CD and an estimate 

of the Bank™s credit risk. For the embedded derivative features, the Company uses the same valuation methodologies 

as if the derivative were a standalone derivative, as discussed herein under ﬁDerivative contracts.ﬂ
For brokered time deposits carried at fair value, the Company estimated credit spreads above LIBOR, based on credit 

spreads from actual or estimated trading levels of the debt or other relevant market data. For the years ended December 

31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Company recognized $3 million and $15 million of losses and $2 million of gains, 

respectively, due to changes in its own credit spread on its brokered time deposits carried at fair value.

Long-term debt
The Company has elected to carry at fair value certain fixed rate debt issuances of public debt which are valued by 
obtaining quotes from a third party pricing service and utilizing broker quotes to corroborate the reasonableness of 
those marks. Additionally, information from market data of recent observable trades and indications from buy side 

investors, if available, are taken into consideration as additional support for the value. Due to the availability of this 

information, the Company determined that the appropriate classification for the debt is level 2. The election to fair 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued185value the debt was made to align the accounting for the debt with the accounting for the derivatives without having 

to account for the debt under hedge accounting, thus avoiding the complex and time consuming fair value hedge 

accounting requirements.
The Company™s public debt carried at fair value impacts earnings predominantly through changes in the Company™s 

credit spreads as the Company has entered into derivative financial instruments that economically convert the interest 

rate on the debt from fixed to floating. The estimated earnings impact from changes in credit spreads above U.S. 

Treasury rates were $40 million and $78 million of losses and $57 million of gains for the years ended December 

31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 

The Company also carries approximately $256 million of issued securities contained in a consolidated CLO at fair 

value to recognize the nonrecourse nature of these liabilities to the Company. Specifically, the holders of the liabilities 

are only paid interest and principal to the extent of the cash flows from the assets of the vehicle, and the Company 

has no current or future obligations to fund any of the CLO vehicle™s liabilities. The Company classified these 

securities as level 2, as the primary driver of their fair values are the loans owned by the CLO, which the Company 

also elected to carry at fair value, as discussed herein under ﬁLoans Held for Sale and Loans Held for InvestmentŒ

Corporate and other LHFS.ﬂ
Other liabilities
The Company™s other liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis include contingent consideration 

obligations related to acquisitions, as well as the derivative that the Company obtained as a result of its sale of Visa 

Class B shares. Contingent consideration associated with acquisitions is adjusted to fair value until settled. As the 

assumptions used to measure fair value are based on internal metrics that are not market observable, the earn-out is 

considered a level 3 liability. During the second quarter of 2009, in connection with its sale of Visa Class B shares, 

the Company entered into a derivative contract whereby the ultimate cash payments received or paid, if any, under 

the contract are based on the ultimate resolution of litigation involving Visa. The value of the derivative was estimated 

based on the Company™s expectations regarding the ultimate resolution of that litigation, which involved a high 

degree of judgment and subjectivity. Accordingly, the value of the derivative liability is classified as a level 3 

instrument. See Note 17, "Guarantees," for a discussion of the valuation assumptions.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued186The valuation technique and range, including weighted average, of the unobservable inputs associated with the Company's 

level 3 assets and liabilities are as follows:  Level 3 Significant Unobservable Input Assumptions(Dollars in millions)Fair valueDecember 31,2013 Valuation TechniqueUnobservable Input 
1Range (weighted average)Assets
Trading assets and derivatives:CDO/CLO securities$54Matrix pricing/
Discounted cash flowIndicative pricing based on
overcollateralization ratio$50-$60 ($54)Discount margin4-6% (5%)
ABS6Matrix pricingIndicative pricing$55 ($55)
Derivative contracts, net 28Internal model
Pull through rate1-99% (74%)

MSR value42-222 bps (111 bps)
Securities AFS:U.S. states and political subdivisions34Matrix pricingIndicative pricing$80-$111 ($95)
MBS - private154Third party pricingN/A
ABS21Third party pricingN/A
Corporate and other debt securities5CostN/A
Other equity securities739CostN/A
Residential LHFS3Monte Carlo/Discounted
cash flowOption adjusted spread250-675 bps (277 bps)

Conditional prepayment rate2-10 CPR (7 CPR)

Conditional default rate0-4 CDR (0.5 CDR)
LHFI292Monte Carlo/Discounted
cash flowOption adjusted spread0-675 bps (307 bps)

Conditional prepayment rate1-30 CPR (13 CPR)

Conditional default rate0-7 CDR (2.5 CDR)
10Collateral based pricing
Appraised valueNM 
3MSRs1,300Discounted cash flow
Conditional prepayment rate4-25 CPR (8 CPR)

Discount rate9-28% (12%)
Liabilities
Other liabilities 423Internal modelLoan production volume0-150% (92%)
3Internal modelRevenue run rateNM 
31 For certain assets and liabilities that the Company utilizes third party pricing, the unobservable inputs and their ranges are 
not reasonably available to the 
Company, and therefore, have been noted as "N/A."
2 Represents the net of IRLC assets and liabilities entered into by the Mortgage Banking segment to hedge its interest rate risk.3 Not meaningful.4 Input assumptions relate to the Company's contingent consideration obligations related to acquisitions. Excludes $3 million of Other Liabilities. See Note 17, "Guarantees," for additional information.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued187 Level 3 Significant Unobservable Input Assumptions(Dollars in millions)Fair valueDecember 31,2012 Valuation TechniqueUnobservable Input 
1Range (weighted average)Assets
Trading assets and derivatives:CDO/CLO securities$52Matrix pricingIndicative pricing based on
overcollateralization ratio$33-$45 ($40)Estimated collateral losses34-45% (39%)
ABS5Matrix pricingIndicative pricing$45 ($45)

Derivative contracts, net 2132Internal modelPull through rate9-98% (71%)
MSR value6-244 bps (104 bps)
Corporate and other debt securities1Third party pricingN/A
Securities AFS:U.S. states and political subdivisions46Matrix pricingIndicative pricing$72-$115 ($92)
MBS - private209Third party pricingN/A

ABS21Third party pricingN/A

Corporate and other debt securities5CostN/A

Other equity securities633CostN/A
Residential LHFS8Monte Carlo/Discounted
cash flowOption adjusted spread0-622 bps (251 bps)

Conditional prepayment rate5-30 CPR (15 CPR)

Conditional default rate0-20 CDR (3.5 CDR)
LHFI369Monte Carlo/Discounted
cash flowOption adjusted spread0-622 bps (251 bps)

Conditional prepayment rate5-30 CPR (15 CPR)

Conditional default rate0-20 CDR (3.5 CDR)
10Collateral based pricingAppraised valueNM 
3MSRs899Discounted cash flowConditional prepayment rate6-31 CPR (16 CPR)
Discount rate9-28% (11%)
Liabilities
Other liabilities 424Internal modelLoan production volume0-150% (92%)
7Internal modelRevenue run rateNM 
31 For certain assets and liabilities that the Company utilizes third party pricing, the unobservable inputs and their ranges are 
not reasonably available to the 
Company, and therefore, have been noted as "N/A."
2 Represents the net of IRLC assets and liabilities entered into by the Mortgage Banking segment to hedge its interest rate risk.3 Not meaningful.4 Input assumptions relate to the Company's contingent consideration obligations related to acquisitions. See Note 17, "Guarantee
s," for additional information.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued188The following tables present a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for fair valued assets and liabilities measu
red on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (other than MSRs which are disclosed in Note 9, ﬁGoodwill and 

Other Intangible Assetsﬂ). Transfers into and out of the fair value hierarchy levels are assumed to be as of the end of the qua
rter in which the transfer occurred. None of the transfers into or out of level 3 have been the result of using alternative valuation approaches to estimate fair values. There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the years ended December 31, 2013 

and 2012.Fair Value Measurements
Using Significant Unobservable Inputs(Dollars in millions)BeginningbalanceJanuary 1,2013IncludedinearningsOCIPurchasesSalesSettlements
Transfersto/fromotherbalancesheetline itemsTransfersintoLevel 3Transfersout ofLevel 3Fair valueDecember31,2013Included in earnings (held at December 
31, 2013) 1 Assets
Trading assets
and derivatives:CDO/CLO
securities$52$23$Š  $Š($20)
($1)$Š$Š$Š$54$15
ABS51  Š  ŠŠŠŠŠŠ61  
Derivative
contracts, net13298
2ŠŠŠŠ
(222)ŠŠ8Š
Corporate and
other debt
securities1Š  Š  ŠŠ
(1)ŠŠŠŠŠ
Total trading
assets and
derivatives190122
3Š  Š(20)
(2)(222)ŠŠ6816
3Securities AFS:U.S. states and
political
subdivisions46Š  2  Š(6)
(8)ŠŠŠ34Š  
MBS - private209Š  (5)  ŠŠ
(50)ŠŠŠ154Š  
ABS21(1)  4  ŠŠ
(3)ŠŠŠ21
(1)  Corporate and
other debt
securities5Š  Š  4Š
(4)ŠŠŠ5Š  
Other equity
securities633Š  Š  200Š
(94)ŠŠŠ739Š  
Total securities
AFS914(1)
415204(6)
(159)ŠŠŠ953
(1)4Residential LHFS816Š  Š(25)
(1)(8)32
(4)3Š
LHFI379(5)
6Š  ŠŠ
(55)(17)ŠŠ302
(11)6Liabilities
Other liabilities314
7Š  ŠŠ
(6)ŠŠŠ294
71 Change in unrealized gains/(losses) included in earnings during the period related to financial assets still held at December 31, 2013.2 Amounts included in earnings are net of issuances, fair value changes, and expirations and are recognized in mortgage producti
on related income/(loss).3 Amounts included in earnings are recognized in trading income.
4 Amounts included in earnings are recognized in net securities gains.
5 Amount recognized in OCI is recognized in change in net unrealized gains on securities, net of tax.
6 Amounts are generally included in mortgage production related income/(loss); however, the mark on certain fair value loans is 
included in trading income.
7 Amounts included in earnings are recognized in other noninterest expense.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued189Fair Value Measurements
Using Significant Unobservable Inputs(Dollars in millions)BeginningbalanceJanuary 1,2012IncludedinearningsOCIPurchasesSalesSettlements
Transfersto/from otherbalance sheetline itemsTransfersintoLevel 3Transfersout ofLevel 3Fair valueDecember31,2012Included in earnings (held at December 31, 2012) 1 Assets
Trading assets
and derivatives:CDO/CLO
securities$43$11$Š$Š$Š
($2)$Š$Š$Š$52$9
ABS5ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ5Š
  Derivative
contracts, net84930
2ŠŠŠŠ
(882)ŠŠ132Š
Corporate and
other debt
securities1ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ1Š
  Total trading
assets and
derivatives133941
3ŠŠ  Š
(2)(882)ŠŠ1909
3Securities AFS:U.S. states and
political
subdivisions58ŠŠŠŠ
(12)ŠŠŠ46Š
  MBS - private221(7)35ŠŠ
(40)ŠŠŠ209
(7)  ABS16Š7ŠŠ
(2)ŠŠŠ21Š
  Corporate and
other debt
securities5ŠŠ2Š
(2)ŠŠŠ5Š
  Other equity
securities741ŠŠ164Š
(272)ŠŠŠ633Š
  Total securities
AFS1,041(7)
4425166  Š
(328)ŠŠŠ914
(7)4Residential
LHFS1ŠŠŠ(11)Š422
(8)8(1)6LHFI4337
6ŠŠŠ
(49)(15)4(1)37911
6Liabilities
Other liabilities211308
2, 4(194)731Š
(325)ŠŠŠ31Š
1 Change in unrealized gains/(losses) included in earnings for the period related to financial assets still held at December 31, 2012.2 Amounts included in earnings are net of issuances, fair value changes, and expirations and are recognized in mortgage producti
on related income/(loss).3 Amounts included in earnings are recognized in trading income.
4 Amounts included in earnings are generally recognized in net securities gains; however, any related hedge ineffectiveness is r
ecognized in trading income.
5 Amounts recognized in OCI are recognized in change in net unrealized gains on securities, net of tax.
6 Amounts are generally included in mortgage production related income/(loss); however, the mark on certain fair value loans is 
included in trading income.
7 Amounts recognized in OCI are recognized in change in net unrealized gains on derivatives, net of tax, and are the effective po
rtions of the cash flow hedges 
related to the Company™s probable forecasted sale of its shares of Coke common stock as discussed in Note 16, ﬁDerivative Finan
cial Instruments.ﬂNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued190Non-recurring Fair Value Measurements
 The following tables present those assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively, as well as loans for which impairment has been recognized during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. 

The changes in fair value when comparing balances at December 31, 2013 to those at December 31, 2012, generally result 

from the application of LOCOM or through write-downs of individual assets. The table does not reflect the change in fair 

value attributable to any related economic hedges the Company may have used to mitigate the interest rate risk associated 

with LHFS and MSRs.(Dollars in millions)December 31, 2013Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor Identical
Assets/Liabilities(Level 1)SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)Losses for the
Year Ended
December 31, 
2013LHFS$278$Š$278$Š($3)
LHFI75ŠŠ75Š
OREO49Š148(10)
Affordable Housing7ŠŠ7(3)
Other Assets171Š15813(61)
(Dollars in millions)December 31, 2012Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets/Liabilities(Level 1)SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)Losses for theYear EndedDecember 31,2012LHFS$65$Š$65$Š$Š

LHFI308ŠŠ308(79)

OREO264Š20559(48)

Affordable Housing82ŠŠ82(96)

Other Assets65Š4223(13)
The following is a discussion of the valuation techniques and inputs used in developing fair value measurements for assets 

classified as level 2 or 3 that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, as determined by the nature and risks of t
he instrument.Loans Held for Sal
eAt December 31, 2013 and 2012, level 2 LHFS consisted primarily of agency and non-agency residential mortgages, which 
were measured using observable collateral valuations, and corporate loans that are accounted for at LOCOM. These loans 

were valued consistent with the methodology discussed in the Recurring Fair Value Measurement section of this footnote.

During 2013, the Company transferred $25 million of residential mortgage NPLs to LHFS, as the Company elected to actively 

market these loans for sale. These loans were predominantly reported at amortized cost prior to transferring to LHFS; however, 

a portion of the NPLs was carried at fair value. As a result of transferring the loans to LHFS, the Company recognized a $3 

million charge-off to reflect the loans' estimated market value. These transferred NPL loans were sold at approximately their 

carrying value during 2013. The Company also sold an additional $63 million of residential mortgage NPLs which had either 

been transferred to LHFS in a prior period or repurchased into LHFS directly. These additional loans were sold at a gain of 

approximately $12 million.
During 2012, the Company transferred $700 million of residential mortgage NPLs to LHFS, as the Company elected to actively 

market these loans for sale. These loans were predominantly reported at amortized cost prior to transferring to LHFS; however, 

a portion of the NPLs was carried at fair value. As a result of transferring the loans to LHFS, the Company recognized a $199 

million charge-off to reflect the loans' estimated market value. Of these transferred loans, $486 million were sold at 

approximately their carrying value during the year, $6 million remained in LHFS, $7 million were returned to LHFI as they 

were no longer deemed marketable for sale, and $2 million were removed as a result of various loss mitigation events.
Loans Held for Investment

At December 31, 2013, LHFI consisted primarily of consumer and residential real estate loans discharged in Chapter 7 

bankruptcy that had not been reaffirmed by the borrower, as well as nonperforming CRE loans for which specific reserves 

have been recognized. As these loans have been classified as nonperforming, cash proceeds from the sale of the underlying 

collateral is the expected source of repayment for a majority of these loans. Accordingly, the fair value of these loans is der
ived Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued191from the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, incorporating market data if available. At December 31, 2012, LHFI 

also consisted primarily of residential real estate loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy that had not been reaffirmed by 

the borrower and nonperforming CRE loans for which specific reserves have been recognized. A majority of these Chapter 7 

bankruptcy loans were returned to accruing status during 2013 as a result of exhibiting at least six months of payment 

performance following discharge by the bankruptcy court. There were no gains or losses during 2013 and 2012 as the charge-

offs related to these loans are a component of the ALLL. Due to the lack of market data for similar assets, all of these loans 

are considered level 3.
OREO
OREO is measured at the lower of cost or its fair value less costs to sell. Level 2 OREO consists primarily of residential 

homes, commercial properties, and vacant lots and land for which binding purchase agreements exist. Level 3 OREO consists 

primarily of residential homes, commercial properties, and vacant lots and land for which initial valuations are based on 

property-specific appraisals, broker pricing opinions, or other available market information. Due to the lower dollar value per
 property and geographic dispersion of the portfolio, certain vacant lots and land properties (approximately 11% of level 3 

OREO at December 31, 2013) are re-evaluated using a pooled approach, which applies geographic factors to adjust carrying 

values for estimated further declines in value. Land and lots have proven to be the most challenging asset class to accurately 

value due in part to the low balance per property composition of the asset class. The pooled discount methodology provides 

a means to reserve for losses across a broad band of assets rather than rely on potentially unreliable asset-specific valuation
s. The pooled discount methodology is applied to land and lot assets that have valuations older than six months. The Company's 

independent internal valuation group determines the discounts to be applied and the discount percentages are segregated by 

state and by asset class (residential or commercial). The range of discount percentages applied to residential properties was 

10% to 60% with a weighted average of 29%. The range of discount percentages applied to commercial properties was 5% 

to 45% with a weighted average of 24%. The discount percentages reflect the general market decline/increase in a particular 

state for a particular asset class and are determined by examining various valuation sources, including but not limited to, rec
ent appraisals or sales prices of similar assets within each state. 
Affordable Housing
The Company evaluates its consolidated affordable housing properties for impairment whenever events or changes in 

circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment is recognized if the carrying amount 

of the property exceeds its fair value. Fair value measurements for affordable housing properties are derived from internal 

analyses using market assumptions if available. Significant assumptions utilized in these analyses include cash flows, market 

capitalization rates, and tax credit market pricing. Due to the lack of comparable sales in the marketplace, these valuations 

are considered level 3. During 2012, the Company decided to actively market for sale certain consolidated affordable housing 

properties, and accordingly, recorded an impairment charge of $96 million to adjust the carrying values of these properties to 

their estimated net realizable values obtained from a third party broker opinion. The majority of the properties held for sale 

were sold in 2013. During 2013, the Company recognized losses of $3 million on affordable housing properties not held for 

sale.
Other Assets

Other assets consist of private equity and other equity method investments, other repossessed assets, assets under operating 

leases where the Company is the lessor, and land held for sale.

Investments in private equity partnerships and other equity method investments are valued based on the expected remaining 
cash flows to be received from these assets discounted at a market rate that is commensurate with the expected risk. Based 

on the valuation methodology and the lack of observable inputs, these investments are considered level 3. During 2013, the 

Company recognized impairment charges on its equity investments of $11 million. The Company did not recognize impairment 

charges on its equity investments during 2012.  

Other repossessed assets consist of repossessed personal property that is measured at fair value less cost to sell. These asset
s are considered level 2 as their fair value is determined based on market comparables and broker opinions. During 2013 and 

2012, the Company recognized impairment charges of $19 million and $2 million on other repossessed assets, respectively.

The Company monitors the fair value of assets under operating leases where the Company is the lessor and recognizes 

impairment to the extent the carrying value is not recoverable and the fair value is less than its carrying value. Fair value i
s determined using collateral specific pricing digests, external appraisals, broker opinions, and recent sales data from industry
 equipment dealers as well as the discounted cash flows derived from the underlying lease agreement. As market data for 

similar assets and lease arrangements is available and used in the valuation, these assets are considered level 2. During 2013 

and 2012, the Company recognized impairment charges of $31 million and $2 million, respectively, attributable to the fair 

value of various personal property under operating leases.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued192Land held for sale is measured at the lesser of carrying value or fair value less cost to sell. The fair value of the land is 

determined using broker opinions, and based on the lack of observable inputs, the land is considered level 3. No impairment 

charges were recognized on the land during 2013. During 2012, the Company recognized a $7 million impairment charge on 

the land.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company™s financial instruments are as follows:
  December 31, 2013Fair Value Measurement Using
 (Dollars in millions)CarryingAmountFairValue
Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor Identical
Assets/Liabilities(Level 1)SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3) Financial assets:Cash and cash equivalents$5,263$5,263$5,263$Š$Š
(a) Trading assets and derivatives5,0405,0401,1563,81272
(b) Securities AFS22,54222,5421,39620,193953
(b) LHFS1,6991,700Š1,66634
(c) LHFI, net125,833121,341Š2,860118,481
(d)Financial liabilities:Deposits129,759129,801Š129,801Š
(e) Short-term borrowings8,7398,739Š8,739Š
(f) Long-term debt10,70010,678Š10,086592
(f) Trading liabilities and derivatives1,1811,1819791984
(b)  December 31, 2012Fair Value Measurement Using 
(Dollars in millions)CarryingAmountFairValue
Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor IdenticalAssets/Liabilities(Level 1)SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3) 
Financial assets:Cash and cash equivalents$8,257$8,257$8,257$Š$Š(a) 

Trading assets and derivatives6,2276,2276965,341190(b) 

Securities AFS21,95321,95329120,748914(b) 

LHFS3,3993,399Š3,37524(c) 

LHFI, net119,296115,690Š4,041111,649(d)
Financial liabilities:Deposits132,316132,613Š132,613Š(e) 

Short-term borrowings5,4945,494Š5,494Š(f) 

Long-term debt9,3579,413Š8,829584(f) 

Trading liabilities and derivatives1,1761,176891285Š(b) 
The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the fair value of financial instruments:(a) Cash and cash equivalents are valued at their carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet, which are reasonable 
estimates of fair value due to the relatively short period to maturity of the instruments.(b) Securities AFS, trading assets and derivatives, and trading liabilities and derivatives that are classified as level 1 are 
valued based on quoted market prices. For those instruments classified as level 2 or 3, refer to the respective valuation 

discussions within this footnote.(c) LHFS are generally valued based on observable current market prices or, if quoted market prices are not available, 
on quoted market prices of similar instruments. Refer to the LHFS section within this footnote for further discussion 

of the LHFS carried at fair value. In instances for which significant valuation assumptions are not readily observable 

in the market, instruments are valued based on the best available data to approximate fair value. This data may be 

internally-developed and considers risk premiums that a market participant would require under then-current market 

conditions.  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued193(d) LHFI fair values are based on a hypothetical exit price, which does not represent the estimated intrinsic value of the 
loan if held for investment. The assumptions used are expected to approximate those that a market participant 

purchasing the loans would use to value the loans, including a market risk premium and liquidity discount. Estimating 

the fair value of the loan portfolio when loan sales and trading markets are illiquid, or for certain loan types, nonexistent, 

requires significant judgment. Therefore, the estimated fair value can vary significantly depending on a market 

participant™s ultimate considerations and assumptions. The final value yields a market participant™s expected return 

on investment that is indicative of the current market conditions, but it does not take into consideration the Company™s 

estimated value from continuing to hold these loans or its lack of willingness to transact at these estimated values.
The Company generally estimated fair value for LHFI based on estimated future cash flows discounted, initially, at 

current origination rates for loans with similar terms and credit quality, which derived an estimated value of 99% 

and 101% on the loan portfolio™s net carrying value at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The value derived 

from origination rates likely does not represent an exit price; therefore, an incremental market risk and liquidity 

discount was subtracted from the initial value at December 31, 2013 and 2012. The discounted value is a function 

of a market participant™s required yield in the current environment and is not a reflection of the expected cumulative 

losses on the loans. Loan prepayments are used to adjust future cash flows based on historical experience and 

prepayment model forecasts. The value of related accrued interest on loans approximates fair value; however, it is 

not included in the carrying amount or fair value of loans. The value of long-term customer relationships is not 

permitted under current U.S. GAAP to be included in the estimated fair value.
(e) Deposit liabilities with no defined maturity such as DDAs, NOW/money market accounts, and savings accounts have 
a fair value equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts). Fair values 

for CDs are estimated using a discounted cash flow measurement that applies current interest rates to a schedule of 
aggregated expected maturities. The assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis are expected to 

approximate those that market participants would use in valuing deposits. The value of long-term relationships with 

depositors is not taken into account in estimating fair values. For valuation of brokered time deposits that the Company 

carries at fair value as well as those that are carried at amortized cost, refer to the respective valuation section within 

this footnote.(f) Fair values for short-term borrowings and certain long-term debt are based on quoted market prices for similar 
instruments or estimated using discounted cash flow analysis and the Company™s current incremental borrowing rates 

for similar types of instruments. For long-term debt that the Company carries at fair value, refer to the respective 

valuation section within this footnote. For level 3 debt, the terms are unique in nature or there are otherwise no similar 

instruments that can be used to value the instrument without using significant unobservable assumptions. In this 

situation, we look at current borrowing rates along with the collateral levels that secure the debt in determining an 

appropriate fair value adjustment.Unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit are not included in the table above. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the 

Company had $48.9 billion and $42.7 billion, respectively, of unfunded commercial loan commitments and letters of credit. 

A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related unfunded 

commitments reserve, which was a combined $53 million and $49 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. No 

active trading market exists for these instruments, and the estimated fair value does not include any value associated with the
 borrower relationship. The Company does not estimate the fair values of consumer unfunded lending commitments which 

can generally be canceled by providing notice to the borrower.

NOTE 19 Œ CONTINGENCIES
Litigation and Regulatory Matters
In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to numerous civil claims and lawsuits and 

subject to regulatory examinations, investigations, and requests for information. Some of these matters involve claims for 

substantial amounts. The Company™s experience has shown that the damages alleged by plaintiffs or claimants are often 

overstated, based on novel or unsubstantiated legal theories, unsupported by facts, and/or bear no relation to the ultimate 

award that a court might grant. Additionally, the outcome of litigation and regulatory matters and the timing of ultimate 

resolution are inherently difficult to predict. Because of these factors, the Company typically cannot provide a meaningful 

estimate of the range of reasonably possible outcomes of claims in the aggregate or by individual claim. However, on a case-

by-case basis, reserves are established for those legal claims in which it is probable that a loss will be incurred and the amo
unt of such loss can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving these claims may be substantially higher or lower than 

the amounts reserved.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued194For a limited number of legal matters in which the Company is involved, the Company is able to estimate a range of reasonably 

possible losses. For other matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, such an estimate is not possible. For 

those matters where a loss is both estimable and reasonably possible, management currently estimates the aggregate range of 

reasonably possible losses as $0 to approximately $300 million
 in excess of the reserves, if any, related to those matters. This 
estimated range of reasonably possible losses represents the estimated possible losses over the life of such legal matters, whi
ch may span a currently indeterminable number of years, and is based on information currently available at December 31, 2013. 

The matters underlying the estimated range will change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from this 

estimate. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range; therefore, this 

estimated range does not represent the Company™s maximum loss exposure. Based on current knowledge, it is the opinion of 

management that liabilities arising from legal claims in excess of the amounts currently reserved, if any, will not have a mate
rial impact on the Company™s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. However, in light of the significant 

uncertainties involved in these matters and the large or indeterminate damages sought in some of these matters, an adverse 

outcome in one or more of these matters could be material to the Company™s financial condition, results, or cash flows for 

any given reporting period.
The following is a description of certain litigation and regulatory matters:
Card Association Antitrust Litigation

The Company is a defendant, along with Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard International, as well as several other banks, in 

several antitrust lawsuits challenging their practices. For a discussion regarding the Company™s involvement in this 

litigation matter, see Note 17, ﬁGuarantees.ﬂ

Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Litigation

Beginning in October 2008, STRH, along with other underwriters and individuals, were named as defendants in several 

individual and putative class action complaints filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and stat
e and federal courts in Arkansas, California, Texas, and Washington. Plaintiffs alleged violations of Sections 11 and 12 of the 

Securities Act of 1933 and/or state law for allegedly false and misleading disclosures in connection with various debt and 

preferred stock offerings of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. ("Lehman Brothers") and sought unspecified damages. All cases 

were transferred for coordination to the multi-district litigation captioned 
In re Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities 
Litigation pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss all 
claims asserted in the class action. On July 27, 2011, the District Court granted in part and denied in part the motion to dism
iss the claims against STRH and the other underwriter defendants in the class action. A settlement with the class plaintiffs was 

approved by the Court and the class settlement approval process was completed. A number of individual lawsuits and smaller 

putative class actions remained following the class settlement. STRH settled two such individual actions. The other individual 

lawsuits were dismissed. The appeal period in one such case expired in January 2014 and in the other two will expire once 

the plaintiffs' claims against a third party have been resolved.

Colonial BancGroup Securities Litigation

Beginning in July 2009, STRH, certain other underwriters, the Colonial BancGroup, Inc. (ﬁColonial BancGroupﬂ) and certain 

officers and directors of Colonial BancGroup were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the U.S. District 

Court for the Middle District of Alabama entitled 
In re Colonial BancGroup, Inc. Securities Litigation.
 The complaint was 
brought by purchasers of certain debt and equity securities of Colonial BancGroup and seeks unspecified damages. Plaintiffs 

allege violations of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 due to allegedly false and misleading disclosures in the 

relevant registration statement and prospectus relating to Colonial BancGroup™s goodwill impairment, mortgage underwriting 

standards, and credit quality. On August 28, 2009, the Colonial BancGroup filed for bankruptcy. The defendants™ motion to 

dismiss was denied in May 2010, but the Court subsequently ordered Plaintiffs to file an amended complaint. This amended 

complaint was filed and the defendants filed a motion to dismiss. In October 2013, the Court granted in part and denied in 

part this motion.
Bickerstaff v. SunTrust Bank

This case was filed in the Fulton County State Court on July 12, 2010, and an amended complaint was filed on August 9, 

2010. Plaintiff asserts that all overdraft fees charged to his account which related to debit card and ATM transactions are 

actually interest charges and therefore subject to the usury laws of Georgia. Plaintiff has brought claims for violations of ci
vil and criminal usury laws, conversion, and money had and received, and purports to bring the action on behalf of all Georgia 

citizens who have incurred such overdraft fees within the last four years where the overdraft fee resulted in an interest rate 

being charged in excess of the usury rate. SunTrust filed a motion to compel arbitration and on March 16, 2012, the Court 

entered an order holding that SunTrust's arbitration provision is enforceable but that the named plaintiff in the case had opte
d out of that provision pursuant to its terms. The Court explicitly stated that it was not ruling at that time on the question of
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued195whether the named plaintiff could have opted out for the putative class members. SunTrust filed an appeal of this decision, 

but this appeal was dismissed based on a finding that the appeal was prematurely granted. On April 8, 2013, the plaintiff filed
 a motion for class certification and that motion is pending.
Putative ERISA Class Actions

Company Stock Class Action

Beginning in July 2008, the Company and certain officers, directors, and employees of the Company were named in a putative 

class action alleging that they breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA by offering the Company's common stock as an 

investment option in the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the ﬁPlanﬂ). The plaintiffs purport to represent all current and 

former Plan participants who held the Company stock in their Plan accounts from May 2007 to the present and seek to recover 

alleged losses these participants supposedly incurred as a result of their investment in Company stock.
The Company Stock Class Action was originally filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida but was 

transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta Division, (the ﬁDistrict Courtﬂ) in Novemb
er 2008.
On October 26, 2009, an amended complaint was filed. On December 9, 2009, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the 

amended complaint. On October 25, 2010, the District Court granted in part and denied in part defendants' motion to dismiss 

the amended complaint. Defendants and plaintiffs filed separate motions for the District Court to certify its October 25, 2010 

order for immediate interlocutory appeal. On January 3, 2011, the District Court granted both motions.

On January 13, 2011, defendants and plaintiffs filed separate petitions seeking permission to pursue interlocutory appeals with
 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit (ﬁthe Circuit Courtﬂ). On April 14, 2011, the Circuit Court granted defendan
ts and plaintiffs permission to pursue interlocutory review in separate appeals. The Circuit Court subsequently stayed these 

appeals pending decision of a separate appeal involving The Home Depot in which substantially similar issues are presented. 

On May 8, 2012, the Circuit Court decided this appeal in favor of The Home Depot. On March 5, 2013, the Circuit Court 

issued an order remanding the case to the District Court for further proceedings in light of its decision in The Home Depot 

case. On September 26, 2013, the District Court granted the defendants' motion to dismiss plaintiffs' claims. Plaintiffs have 

filed an appeal of this decision in the Circuit Court.
Mutual Funds Class Action

On March 11, 2011, the Company and certain officers, directors, and employees of the Company were named in a putative 

class action alleging that they breached their fiduciary duties under ERISA by offering certain STI Classic Mutual Funds as 

investment options in the Plan. The plaintiff purports to represent all current and former Plan participants who held the STI 

Classic Mutual Funds in their Plan accounts from April 2002 through December 2010 and seeks to recover alleged losses 

these Plan participants supposedly incurred as a result of their investment in the STI Classic Mutual Funds. This action was 

pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta Division (the ﬁDistrict Courtﬂ). On June 6, 

2011, plaintiff filed an amended complaint, and, on June 20, 2011, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint. 

On March 12, 2012, the Court granted in part and denied in part the motion to dismiss. The Company filed a subsequent 

motion to dismiss the remainder of the case on the ground that the Court lacked subject matter jurisdiction over the remaining 

claims. On October 30, 2012, the Court dismissed all claims in this action. Immediately thereafter, plaintiffs' counsel initiat
ed a substantially similar lawsuit against the Company substituting two new plaintiffs and also filed an appeal of the dismissal 

with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. SunTrust filed a motion to dismiss in the new action and this motion 

was granted. This decision also is now on appeal to the Eleventh Circuit.

Consent Order with the Federal Reserve

On April 13, 2011, SunTrust Banks, Inc., SunTrust Bank, and STM entered into a Consent Order with the FRB in which 

SunTrust Banks, Inc., SunTrust Bank, and STM agreed to strengthen oversight of, and improve risk management, internal 

audit, and compliance programs concerning, the residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation, and foreclosure activities
 of STM. Under the terms of the Consent Order, SunTrust Bank and STM agreed, among other things, to: (a) strengthen the 

coordination of communications between borrowers and STM concerning ongoing loss mitigation and foreclosure activities; 

(b) submit a plan to enhance processes for oversight and management of third party vendors used in connection with residential 

mortgage servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities; (c) enhance and strengthen the enterprise-wide compliance 

program with respect to oversight of residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities; (d) ensur
e appropriate oversight of STM's activities with respect to the Mortgage Electronic Registration System; (e) review and 

remediate, if necessary, STM's management information systems for its residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation, 

and foreclosure activities; (f) improve the training of STM officers and staff concerning applicable law, supervisory guidance 

and internal procedures concerning residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities, including 

the single point of contact for foreclosure and loss mitigation; (g) retain an independent consultant to conduct a comprehensiv
e assessment of STM's risks, including, but not limited to, operational, compliance, transaction, legal, and reputational risks 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued196particularly in the areas of residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure; (h) enhance and strengthen 

the enterprise-wide risk management program with respect to oversight of residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation 

and foreclosure activities; and (i) enhance and strengthen the internal audit program with respect to residential loan servicin
g, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities. The comprehensive third party risk assessment was completed in August 2011, 

action plans designed to complete the above enhancements were accepted by the FRB, and the Company has implemented 

enhancements consistent with such plans. During the second quarter of 2013, an independent third party consultant approved 

by the FRB completed its review and submitted to the FRB a validation report with respect to compliance with the aspects of 

the Consent Order referenced above. The Company continues its implementation of the recommendations noted in this report.

Under the terms of the Consent Order, SunTrust Bank and STM also retained an independent foreclosure consultant approved 

by the FRB to conduct a review of residential foreclosure actions pending at any time during the period from January 1, 2009 

through December 31, 2010, for loans serviced by STM, to identify any errors, misrepresentations, or deficiencies, determine 

whether any instances so identified resulted in financial injury, and prepare a written report detailing the findings. On Janua
ry 7, 2013, the Company, as well as nine other mortgage servicers, entered into an amendment to the Consent Order with the 

OCC and the FRB to amend the 2011 Consent Order. This agreement ended the independent foreclosure review process created 

by the Consent Order, replacing it with an accelerated remediation program. As a result of the amendment, the Company is 

no longer incurring the consulting and legal costs of the independent third parties providing file review, borrower outreach, 

and legal services associated with the Consent Order foreclosure file review. The Company has taken actions to satisfy its 

commitments under the amendment to the Consent Order, and the Company's financial results at December 31, 2013 reflect 

the expected costs of satisfying its financial obligations under the amendment to the Consent Order.

As a result of the FRB's review of the Company's residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing practices 

that preceded the Consent Order, the FRB announced that it would impose a $160 million civil money penalty. The Company 

expects to satisfy this obligation by providing consumer relief and certain cash payments as contemplated by the settlement 

with the U.S. and the States Attorneys' General regarding certain mortgage servicing claims, which is discussed below at 

"United States Mortgage Servicing Settlement and HUD Investigation of Origination Practices (FHA).ﬂ
United States Mortgage Servicing Settlement and HUD Investigation of Origination Practices (FHA)
In January 2012, the Company commenced discussions related to a mortgage servicing settlement with the U.S., through the 

DOJ, and Attorneys General for several states regarding various potential claims primarily relating to the Company's mortgage 

servicing activities. Since that time, the parties continued discussions regarding potential resolution. In September 2013, the
 Company reached agreements in principle with the HUD and the DOJ to settle certain alleged civil claims regarding our 

mortgage servicing and origination practices as part of the National Mortgage Servicing Settlement. 
Separately, on April 25, 2012, the Company was informed of the commencement of an investigation by the HUD OIG relating 

to STM's origination practices for FHA loans. Since that time, STM has provided documents as part of the investigation. 

During the first quarter of 2013, the HUD OIG, together with the U.S. DOJ (collectively, the ﬁGovernmentﬂ), advised STM 

of their preliminary investigation findings, including alleged violations of the False Claims Act. Throughout 2013, the 

Government and the Company engaged in discussions that accelerated in the third quarter and resulted in agreements in 

principle to resolve certain civil and administrative claims arising from FHA-insured mortgage loans originated by STM from 

January 1, 2006 through March 31, 2012. Pursuant to these two combined agreements in principle, the Company committed 

to provide $500 million of consumer relief, to make a $468 million cash payment, and to implement certain mortgage servicing 

standards. 
The Company is continuing to negotiate definitive settlement terms for each of these matters and has certain substantive 

disagreements with some of the positions being taken by the Government. The Company may be unable to resolve its 

disagreements with the Government and may not reach a definitive settlement agreement as it relates to the FHA matter.  If 

the Company does not reach a definitive settlement agreement, then the Government may sue the Company alleging deficiencies 

in the Company's FHA loan origination practices.  The Company is not able to predict the effect that a failure to resolve the 

FHA matter will have on the agreement in principle to settle the alleged claims regarding its mortgage servicing and originatio
n practices. 
The Company's financial statements at December 31, 2013 reflected its estimated cost of the settlements, and the Company 

is not able to predict what its ultimate cost to resolve these matters will be if it is not able to reach definitive settlement
 agreements. Even if the Company were to reach a definitive settlement agreement with the Government to resolve the alleged 

mortgage servicing and origination claims as contemplated by the agreement in principle, the Company faces the risk of being 

unable to meet certain consumer relief commitments, resulting in increased costs to resolve this matter. Additionally, while 

the Company does not expect the consumer relief efforts or implementation of certain servicing standards associated with the 

settlements to have a material impact on its future financial results, this expectation is based on anticipated requirements of
 the definitive agreements which the parties have not finalized. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued197DOJ Investigation of GSE Loan Origination Practices 
In January 2014, the DOJ notified STM of an investigation of the origination and underwriting of single family residential 

mortgage loans sold by STM to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. STM is cooperating with the investigation, which is in its 

preliminary stages. The DOJ and STM have not yet engaged in any dialogue about how this matter may proceed and no 

allegations have been raised against STM.
Mortgage Modification Investigation 
STM has been cooperating with the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Virginia and the Office of the 

Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (collectively, the ﬁWestern Districtﬂ) in their investigation 

of STM's administration of HAMP. More specifically, the Western District investigation focuses on whether, during 2009 and 

2010, STM harmed borrowers and violated civil or criminal laws by failing to properly process applications for modifications 

of certain mortgages owned by the GSEs by devoting insufficient resources to its loss mitigation function and making 

misrepresentations to borrowers about timelines and other features associated with the HAMP modification process. The 

Western District and STM are engaged in dialogue about how this matter may proceed. While no determinations have been 

made, the Western District has indicated that they intend to pursue some form of action and may impose substantial penalties 

on STM. STM continues to cooperate with the investigation and believes that it has substantial defenses to the asserted 

allegations.
Residential Funding Company, LLC v. SunTrust Mortgage, Inc.

STM has been named as a defendant in a complaint filed December 17, 2013 in the Southern District of New York by Residential 

Funding Company, LLC. ("RFC"), a Chapter 11 debtor-affiliate of GMAC Mortgage, LLC., alleging breaches of 

representations and warranties made in connection with loan sales and seeking indemnification against losses allegedly suffered
 by RFC as a result of such alleged breaches. 
SunTrust Mortgage Lender Placed Insurance Class Actions

STM has been named in three putative class actions similar to those that other financial institutions are facing which allege 

that the Company acted improperly in connection with the practice of force placing homeowners™ insurance in certain instances. 

Generally, the plaintiffs in these actions allege that STM has violated various duties by failing to properly negotiate pricing
 for force placed insurance and by receiving kickbacks or other improper benefits from the providers of such insurance. The 

first case, Timothy Smith v. SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. et al.
, is pending in the United States District Court for the Central District 
of California. STM filed a motion to dismiss this case and this motion was granted in part and denied in part. The second case,
 Carina Hamilton v. SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. et al.
, is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. STM filed a motion to dismiss in this case that remains pending. The third case, 
Yaghoub Mahdavieh et al. v. SunTrust Mortgage, 
Inc. et al., is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. STM has filed a motion to dismiss and 
a motion to transfer in this case. The Court granted the motion to transfer this case to the Southern District of Florida.

SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. v. United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina

STM filed suit in the Eastern District of Virginia in July 2009 against United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of 

North Carolina (ﬁUGRICﬂ) seeking payment of denied mortgage insurance claims on second lien mortgages. STM's claims 

were in two counts. Count One involved a common reason for denial of claims by UGRIC for a group of loans. Count Two 

involved a group of loans with individualized reasons for the claim denials asserted by UGRIC. UGRIC counterclaimed for 
declaratory relief involving interpretation of the insurance policy involving certain caps on the amount of claims covered and 

whether STM was obligated to continue to pay premiums after any caps were met. The Court granted STM's motion for 

summary judgment as to liability on Count One and, after a trial on damages, awarded STM $34 million along with $6 million 

in prejudgment interest on August 19, 2011. The Court stayed Count Two pending final resolution of Count One. On September 

13, 2011, the Court awarded an additional $5 million to the Count One judgment for fees on certain issues. On UGRIC's 

counterclaim, the Court agreed that UGRIC's interpretation was correct regarding STM's continued obligations to pay premiums 

in the future after coverage caps are met. However, on August 19, 2011, the Court found for STM on its affirmative defense 

that UGRIC can no longer enforce the contract due to its prior breaches and, consequently, denied UGRIC's request for a 

declaration that it was entitled to continue to collect premiums after caps are met. 
On February 1, 2013, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals (i) upheld the judgment to STM of $45 million ($34 million in 

claims, $6 million in interest, and $5 million in additional fees); and (ii) vacated the ruling in STM's favor regarding the 

defense STM asserted to UGRIC's claim that STM owes continued premium after the caps are reached. On February 15, 2013, 

UGRIC filed a motion asking the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals to re-hear its appeal. This request was denied on March 4, 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued1982013. The case has returned to the District Court for further proceedings regarding STM's defense to UGRIC's claims for 

additional premiums.
SunTrust Mortgage Reinsurance Class Actions

STM and Twin Rivers Insurance Company ("Twin Rivers") have been named as defendants in two putative class actions 

alleging that the companies entered into illegal ﬁcaptive reinsuranceﬂ arrangements with private mortgage insurers. More 

specifically, plaintiffs allege that SunTrust™s selection of private mortgage insurers who agree to reinsure loans referred to 

them by SunTrust with Twin Rivers results in illegal ﬁkickbacksﬂ in the form of the insurance premiums paid to Twin Rivers. 

Plaintiffs contend that this arrangement violates the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (ﬁRESPAﬂ) and results in unjust 

enrichment to the detriment of borrowers. The first of these cases, 
Thurmond, Christopher, et al. v. SunTrust Banks, Inc. et 
al., was filed in February 2011 in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. This case was stayed by the 
Court pending the outcome of 
Edwards v. First American Financial Corporation
, a captive reinsurance case that was pending before the U.S. Supreme Court at the time. The second of these cases, 
Acosta, Lemuel & Maria Ventrella et al. v. SunTrust 
Bank, SunTrust Mortgage, Inc., et al.,
 was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California in December 
2011. This case was stayed pending a decision in the 
Edwards
 case also. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court withdrew its 
grant of 
certiorari in 
Edwards
 and, as a result, the stays in these cases were lifted. The plaintiffs in 
Acosta voluntarily dismissed 
this case. A motion to dismiss is pending in the 
Thurmond case.NOTE 20 - BUSINESS SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company has three segments used to measure business activity: Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management, 

Wholesale Banking, and Mortgage Banking, with the remainder in Corporate Other. The business segments are determined 

based on the products and services provided or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial 

information is evaluated by management. During the second quarter of 2013, branch-managed business banking clients were 

transferred from Wholesale Banking to Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management, and all periods presented in the 

tables below reflect this transfer. The following is a description of the segments and their composition, which reflects the 

transfer of branch-managed business banking clients.
The Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management segment is made up of two primary businesses: Consumer Banking 

and Private Wealth Management. 
Ł Consumer Banking provides services to consumers and branch-managed small business clients through an extensive 
network of traditional and in-store branches, ATMs, the internet (
www.suntrust.com), mobile banking, and telephone 
(1-800-SUNTRUST). Financial products and services offered to consumers and small business clients include 

deposits, home equity lines and loans, credit lines, indirect auto, student lending, bank card, other lending products, 

and various fee-based services. Consumer Banking also serves as an entry point for clients and provides services for 

other lines of business.Ł Private Wealth Management provides a full array of wealth management products and professional services to both 
individual and institutional clients including loans, deposits, brokerage, professional investment management, and 

trust services to clients seeking active management of their financial resources. Institutional clients are served by the 

IIS business. Discount/online and full service brokerage products are offered to individual clients through STIS. 

Private Wealth Management also includes GenSpring, which provides family office solutions to ultra high net worth 

individuals and their families. Utilizing teams of multi-disciplinary specialists with expertise in investments, tax, 

accounting, estate planning, and other wealth management disciplines, GenSpring helps families manage and sustain 

wealth across multiple generations.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued199The Wholesale Banking segment includes the following five businesses: 
Ł CIB delivers comprehensive capital markets, corporate and investment banking solutions, including advisory, capital 
raising, and financial risk management, to clients in the Wholesale Banking segment and Private Wealth Management 

business. Investment Banking and Corporate Banking teams within CIB serve clients across the nation, offering a 

full suite of traditional banking and investment banking products and services to companies with annual revenues 

typically greater than $100 million. Investment Banking serves select industry segments including consumer and 

retail, energy, financial services, healthcare, industrials, media and communications, real estate, and technology. 

Corporate Banking serves clients across diversified industry sectors based on size, complexity, and frequency of 

capital markets issuance. Also managed within CIB are the Equipment Finance Group, which provides lease financing 

solutions (through SunTrust Equipment Finance & Leasing), and Premium Assignment Corporation, which create 

corporate insurance premium financing solutions.Ł Commercial & Business Banking offers an array of traditional banking products and investment banking services as 
needed by Commercial clients with annual revenues generally from $1 to $150 million as well as the dealer services 

(financing dealer floor plan inventories) and not-for-profit and government sectors.
Ł Commercial Real Estate provides a full range of financial solutions for commercial real estate developers, owners 
and investors including construction, mini-perm, and permanent real estate financing as well as tailored financing 

and equity investment solutions via STRH primarily through the REIT group focused on Real Estate Investment 

Trusts. The Institutional Real Estate team targets relationships with institutional advisors, private funds, sovereign 

wealth funds, and insurance companies and the Regional team focuses on real estate owners and developers through 

a regional delivery structure. Commercial Real Estate also offers tailored financing and equity investment solutions 

for community development and affordable housing owners/developers projects through SunTrust Community 

Capital with special expertise in Low Income Housing Tax Credits and New Market Tax Credits.
Ł RidgeWorth, an SEC registered investment advisor, serves as investment manager for the RidgeWorth Funds as well 
as individual clients. RidgeWorth is also a holding company with ownership in other institutional asset management 

boutiques offering a wide array of equity and fixed income capabilities. These boutiques include Ceredex Value 

Advisors, Certium Asset Management, Seix Investment Advisors, Silvant Capital Management, StableRiver Capital 

Management, and Zevenbergen Capital Investments. On December 11, 2013, the Company announced that it had 

reached a definitive agreement to sell RidgeWorth to an investor group led by a private equity fund managed by 

Lightyear Capital LLC. The sale is expected to close during the second quarter of 2014. It is subject to various 

customary closing conditions including consents of certain RidgeWorth investment advisory clients.  RidgeWorth 

results are included in the Wholesale Banking Segment and will continue to be reported as part of Wholesale Banking 

until the sale closes.Ł Treasury & Payment Solutions provides all SunTrust business clients with services required to manage their payments 
and receipts combined with the ability to manage and optimize their deposits across all aspects of their business. 

Treasury & Payment Solutions operates all electronic and paper payment types, including card, wire transfer, ACH, 

check, and cash, plus provides clients the means to manage their accounts electronically online both domestically 

and internationally.
Mortgage Banking offers residential mortgage products nationally through its retail and correspondent channels, as well as 

via the internet (www.suntrust.com) and by telephone (1-800-SUNTRUST). These products are either sold in the secondary 
market, primarily with servicing rights retained, or held in the Company™s loan portfolio.  Mortgage Banking services loans 

for itself and for other investors and includes ValuTree Real Estate Services, LLC, a tax service subsidiary.

Corporate Other includes management of the Company™s investment securities portfolio, long-term debt, end user derivative 

instruments, short-term liquidity and funding activities, balance sheet risk management, and most real estate assets.  

Additionally, it includes Enterprise Information Services, which is the primary information technology and operations group; 

Corporate Real Estate, Marketing, SunTrust Online, Human Resources, Finance, Corporate Risk Management, Legal and 

Compliance, Branch Operations, Communications, Procurement, and Executive Management.  
Because the business segment results are presented based on management accounting practices, the transition to the 

consolidated results, which are prepared under U.S. GAAP, creates certain differences which are reflected in Reconciling 

Items.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued200For business segment reporting purposes, the basis of presentation in the accompanying discussion includes the following:Ł Net interest income
 Œ Net interest income is presented on a FTE basis to make tax-exempt assets comparable to other taxable products. The segments have also been matched maturity funds transfer priced, generating credits or 

charges based on the economic value or cost created by the assets and liabilities of each segment. The mismatch 

between funds credits and funds charges at the segment level resides in Reconciling Items. The change in the 

matched maturity funds mismatch is generally attributable to corporate balance sheet management strategies.Ł Provision for credit losses
 Œ Represents net charge-offs by segment. The difference between the segment's total 
net charge-offs and the consolidated provision for credit losses is reported in Reconciling Items.
Ł Provision/(benefit) for income taxes
 Œ Calculated using a blended income tax rate for each segment. This 
calculation includes the impact of various income adjustments, such as the reversal of the FTE gross up on tax-

exempt assets, tax adjustments, and credits that are unique to each segment. The difference between the calculated 

provision/(benefit) for income taxes at the segment level and the consolidated provision/(benefit) for income taxes 

is reported in Reconciling Items.The segment™s financial performance is comprised of direct financial results, as well as various allocations that for internal 

management reporting purposes provide an enhanced view of analyzing the segment™s financial performance. The internal 

allocations include the following:Ł Operational Costs
 Œ Expenses are charged to the segments based on various statistical volumes multiplied by 

activity based cost rates. As a result of the activity based costing process, planned residual expenses are also 

allocated to the segments. The recoveries for the majority of these costs are in Corporate Other.
Ł Support and Overhead Costs
 Œ Expenses not directly attributable to a specific segment are allocated based on 
various drivers (e.g., number of full-time equivalent employees and volume of loans and deposits). The recoveries 

for these allocations are in Corporate Other.
Ł Sales and Referral Credits
 Œ Segments may compensate another segment for referring or selling certain products. 
The majority of the revenue resides in the segment where the product is ultimately managed.The application and development of management reporting methodologies is a dynamic process and is subject to periodic 

enhancements. The implementation of these enhancements to the internal management reporting methodology may materially 

affect the results disclosed for each segment with no impact on consolidated results. Whenever significant changes to 

management reporting methodologies take place, the impact of these changes is quantified and prior period information is 

reclassified wherever practicable. Prior year results have been restated to reflect the 2013 transfer of branch-managed busines
s banking clients from Wholesale Banking to Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued201 Year Ended December 31, 2013(Dollars in millions)ConsumerBanking andPrivate WealthManagementWholesaleBankingMortgageBankingCorporateOtherReconcilingItemsConsolidated
Balance Sheets:Average total assets$45,487$66,618$32,708$26,033$1,651$172,497
Average total liabilities84,97747,3103,84515,293(95)151,330
Average total equityŠŠŠŠ21,16721,167
Statements of Income/(loss):Net interest income$2,601$1,605$539$306($198)$4,853
FTE adjustment1124Š3(1)127
Net interest income - FTE 12,6021,729539309(199)4,980
Provision for credit losses 236279238Š(126)553
Net interest income after provision for credit losses2,2401,650301309(73)4,427
Total noninterest income1,4801,29040256(14)3,214
Total noninterest expense2,7971,6381,503(46)(12)5,880
Income/(loss) before provision/(benefit) for income
taxes9231,302(800)411(75)1,761
Provision/(benefit) for income taxes 3340395(232)(83)(20)400
Net income/(loss) including income attributable to
noncontrolling interest583907(568)494(55)1,361
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interestŠ7Š9117
Net income/(loss)$583$900($568)$485($56)$1,344
 Year Ended December 31, 2012(Dollars in millions)ConsumerBanking andPrivate WealthManagementWholesaleBankingMortgageBankingCorporateOtherReconcilingItemsConsolidated
Balance Sheets:Average total assets$47,024$63,782$35,153$27,830$2,345$176,134

Average total liabilities84,67746,9354,48419,706(163)155,639

Average total equityŠŠŠŠ20,49520,495
Statements of Income/(loss):Net interest income$2,723$1,538$512$389($60)$5,102

FTE adjustmentŠ119Š4Š123

Net interest income - FTE 12,7231,657512393(60)5,225
Provision for credit losses 2645266770Š(286)1,395
Net interest income/(loss) after provision for credit
losses2,0781,391(258)3932263,830
Total noninterest income1,5001,4135021,969(11)5,373

Total noninterest expense3,0881,8101,36968(12)6,323

Income/(loss) before provision/(benefit) for income
taxes490994(1,125)2,2942272,880
Provision/(benefit) for income taxes 3180280(429)76798896
Net income/(loss) including income attributable to
noncontrolling interest310714(696)1,5271291,984
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interestŠ16Š10Š26
Net income/(loss)$310$698($696)$1,517$129$1,958
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued202 Year Ended December 31, 2011(Dollars in millions)ConsumerBanking andPrivate WealthManagementWholesaleBankingMortgageBankingCorporateOtherReconcilingItemsConsolidated
Balance Sheets:Average total assets$45,221$61,323$33,719$30,876$1,301$172,440

Average total liabilities85,33547,1813,83815,598(208)151,744

Average total equityŠŠŠŠ20,69620,696
Statements of Income/(loss):Net interest income$2,729$1,385$471$498($18)$5,065

FTE adjustmentŠ107Š61114

Net interest income - FTE 12,7291,492471504(17)5,179
Provision for credit losses 2789559693Š(528)1,513
Net interest income/(loss) after provision for credit
losses1,940933(222)5045113,666
Total noninterest income1,6781,231241297(26)3,421

Total noninterest expense3,0661,8741,190133(29)6,234

Income/(loss) before provision/(benefit) for income
taxes552290(1,171)668514853
Provision/(benefit) for income taxes 320217(454)227201193
Net income/(loss) including income attributable to
noncontrolling interest350273(717)441313660
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interestŠ3Š9113
Net income/(loss)$350$270($717)$432$312$647
1 Presented on a matched maturity funds transfer price basis for the segments.2 Provision for credit losses represents net charge-offs for the segments.
3 Includes regular income tax provision/(benefit) and taxable-equivalent income adjustment reversal.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued203NOTE 21 - ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS)/INCOME

AOCI was calculated as follows:(Dollars in millions)Pre-taxAmountIncome Tax
(Expense)/BenefitAfter-tax
AmountAOCI, January 1, 2011$2,531
($915)$1,616
Unrealized gains/(losses) on AFS securities:Unrealized net gains653
(242)411
Less:  Reclassification adjustment for realized net gains(117)43
(74)Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges:Unrealized net gains684
(253)431
Less:  Reclassification adjustment for realized net gains(625)231
(394)Change related to employee benefit plans(382)141
(241)AOCI, December 31, 20112,744
(995)1,749
Unrealized gains/(losses) on AFS securities:Unrealized net gains198
(72)126
Less:  Reclassification adjustment for realized net gains 1(2,279)810
(1,469)Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges:Unrealized net gains81
(28)53
Less:  Reclassification adjustment for realized net gains(143)53
(90)Change related to employee benefit plans(95)35
(60)AOCI, December 31, 2012$506
($197)$309
Unrealized (losses)/gains on AFS securities:Unrealized net losses(944)348
(596)Less:  Reclassification adjustment for realized net gains(2)1(1)Unrealized gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges:Unrealized net gains16(6)10
Less:  Reclassification adjustment for realized net gains(417)154
(263)Change related to employee benefit plans399(147)252
AOCI, December 31, 2013($442)$153
($289)1 Excludes $305 million of losses related to derivatives associated with the Coke Agreements termination that was recorded in sec
urities gains on the Consolidated Statements of Income.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued204The reclassification from AOCI consisted of the following:
(Dollars in millions)Year Ended December 31Affected line item in theConsolidated Statements ofIncomeDetails about AOCI components201320122011
Realized gains on AFS securities:($2)($2,279)($117)Net securities gains
181043Provision for income taxes
($1)($1,469)($74)Gains on cash flow hedges:($417)($143)($625)Interest and fees on loans
15453231Provision for income taxes
($263)($90)($394)Change related to employee benefit plans:Amortization of actuarial losses$26$27($64)Employee benefits
373(122)(318)Other assets/other liabilities 
1399(95)(382)(147)35141Provision for income taxes
$252($60)($241)1 This AOCI component is recognized as an adjustment to the funded status of employee benefit plans in the Company's Consolidated
 Balance Sheets. (For 
additional information, see Note 15, "Employee Benefit Plans").Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued205NOTE 22 - SUNTRUST BANKS, INC. (PARENT COMPANY ONLY) FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Statements of Income - Parent Company Only
Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
IncomeDividends1$1,200$27$29
Interest on loans103611
Trading income161853
Other income723132
Total income1,233104225
ExpenseInterest on short-term borrowings12139
Interest on long-term debt96177226
Employee compensation and benefits224111(7)
Service fees to subsidiaries3311
Other expense(113)343133
Total expense22347372
Income/(loss) before income tax benefit and equity in undistributed
income of subsidiaries1,211(243)(147)
Income tax benefit89149
Income/(loss) before equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries1,219(152)(98)
Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries1252,110745
Net income1,3441,958647
Preferred dividends(37)(12)(7)
Dividends and accretion of discount on preferred stock issued to the
U.S. TreasuryŠŠ(66)
Accelerated accretion associated with repurchase of preferred stock
issued to the U.S. TreasuryŠŠ(74)
Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to unvested shares(10)(15)(5)
Net income available to common shareholders$1,297$1,931$495
1 Substantially all dividend income received from subsidiaries. 2 Includes incentive compensation allocations between the Parent Company and subsidiaries.3 Includes the transfer to STM of certain mortgage legal-related expenses recorded at the Parent Company in prior years.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued206Balance Sheets - Parent Company Only
 December 31    (Dollars in millions)20132012AssetsCash held at SunTrust Bank$238$137Interest-bearing deposits held at SunTrust Bank2,756604Interest-bearing deposits held at other banks2020Cash and cash equivalents3,014761Trading assets and derivatives92103Securities available for sale316279Loans to subsidiaries1,3112,733Investment in capital stock of subsidiaries stated on the 
basis of the Company™s equity in subsidiaries™ capital accounts:
Banking subsidiaries21,77222,521Nonbanking subsidiaries1,4651,368Goodwill9999Other assets534561Total assets$28,603$28,425Liabilities and Shareholders™ EquityShort-term borrowings:Subsidiaries$656$1,525Non-affiliated companies1,5541,512Long-term debt:Subsidiaries160160Non-affiliated companies4,1113,249Other liabilities8191,108Total liabilities7,3007,554Preferred stock725725Common stock550550Additional paid in capital9,1159,174Retained earnings11,93610,817Treasury stock, at cost, and other
1(734)(704)AOCI, net of tax(289)309Total shareholders™ equity21,30320,871Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$28,603$28,4251 At December 31, 2013, includes ($684) million for treasury stock and ($50) million for compensation element of restricted stock.   At December 31, 2012, includes ($656) million for treasury stock and ($48) million for compensation element of restricted sto
ck.Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, continued207Statements of Cash Flows - Parent Company Only 
 Year Ended December 31(Dollars in millions)201320122011
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:Net income$1,344$1,958$647
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities:Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries(125)(2,110)(745)
Depreciation, amortization, and accretion51017
Deferred income tax provision/(benefit)7418(56)
Excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation(4)(11)Š
Stock option compensation and amortization of restricted stock compensation343544
Net loss/(gain) on extinguishment of debtŠ15(3)
Net securities gains(2)(6)(92)
Contributions to retirement plans(8)(26)(8)
Net decrease/(increase) in other assets50(190)(192)
Net (decrease)/increase in other liabilities(327)369130
Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities1,04162(258)
Cash Flows from Investing Activities:Proceeds from maturities, calls, and repayments of securities available for sale556561
Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale57476,700
Purchases of securities available for sale(25)(68)(2,374)
Proceeds from maturities, calls, and repayments of trading securities12137
Proceeds from sales of trading securities8Š75
Net change in loans to subsidiaries1,422940(3,185)
Capital contributions to subsidiariesŠ(150)(250)
Net cash provided by investing activities1,5188361,164
Cash Flows from Financing Activities:Net (decrease)/increase in short-term borrowings(827)935463
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt888151,749
Repayment of long-term debt(9)(3,073)(482)
Proceeds from the issuance of preferred stockŠ438103
Proceeds from the issuance of common stockŠŠ1,017
Repurchase of preferred stockŠŠ(4,850)
Repurchase of common stock(150)ŠŠStock option activity1726Š
Dividends paid(225)(119)(131)
Purchase of outstanding warrantsŠŠ(11)
Net cash used in financing activities(306)(1,778)(2,142)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents2,253(880)(1,236)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period7611,6412,877
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period$3,014$761$1,641
Supplemental Disclosures:
Income taxes (paid to)/received from subsidiaries($195)$621($2)
Income taxes received/(paid) by Parent Company55(605)(66)
Net income taxes (paid)/received by Parent Company($140)
$16($68)
Interest paid$112$189$246
Accretion of discount for preferred stock issued to the U.S. TreasuryŠŠ80
208Item 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURENone.Item 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
The Company conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its CEO and CFO, of the 

effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company™s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) 

of the Exchange Act) at December 31, 2013. The Company™s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that 

information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded,
 processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, and that such 

information is accumulated and communicated to the Company™s management, including its CEO and CFO, as appropriate, 

to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based upon the evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that the 

Company™s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at December 31, 2013. 

Management™s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in 

Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) for the Company. The Company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process 

designed under the supervision of the Company™s CEO and CFO to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 

financial reporting and the preparation of the Company™s financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. 

GAAP.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 

projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 

because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has made a comprehensive review, evaluation, and assessment of the Company™s internal control over financial 

reporting at December 31, 2013. In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management used the 
original framework issued in 1992 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO") 

in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
 Based on that assessment, management concluded that, at December 31, 2013, 
the Company™s internal control over financial reporting is effective. COSO issued an update to the original framework during 

2013 and indicated that the updated framework would supersede the original framework on December 15, 2014. The Company 

will transition to the 2013 framework during the year ended December 31, 2014.
Ernst & Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements at 

and for the year ended December 31, 2013, has issued a report on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over 

financial reporting at December 31, 2013. The report of Ernst & Young LLP is included under Item 8 of this Annual Report 

on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management of the Company has evaluated, with the participation of the Company™s CEO and CFO, changes in the Company™s 

internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Based upon that evaluation, management 

has determined that there have been no changes to the Company™s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during 

the Company™s fourth quarter of 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company™
s internal control over financial reporting.Item 9B.OTHER INFORMATION
 None.209Part IIIItem 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information at the captions ﬁNominees for Directorship,ﬂ ﬁNominees for Terms Expiring in 2015,ﬂ ﬁExecutive Officers,ﬂ 

ﬁSection 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,ﬂ ﬁCorporate Governance and Director Independence,ﬂ 

ﬁShareholder Recommendations and Nominations for Election to the Board,ﬂ and ﬁBoard Committeesﬂ in the Registrant™s 

definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 22, 2014 and to be filed with the Commiss
ion is incorporated by reference into this Item 10.Item 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information at the captions ﬁCompensation Policies that Affect Risk Management,ﬂ ﬁExecutive 

Compensationﬂ (ﬁCompensation Discussion and Analysis,ﬂ ﬁCompensation Committee Report,ﬂ ﬁ2013 Summary 

Compensation Table,ﬂ ﬁ2013 Grants of Plan-Based Awards,ﬂ ﬁOption Exercises and Stock Vested in 2013,ﬂ ﬁOutstanding 

Equity Awards at December 31, 2013,ﬂ ﬁ2013 Pension Benefits Table,ﬂ ﬁ2013 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table,ﬂ 

and ﬁ2013 Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Controlﬂ), ﬁ2013 Director Compensation,ﬂ and ﬁCompensation 

Committee Interlocks and Insider Participationﬂ in the Registrant™s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of 

shareholders to be held on April 22, 2014 and to be filed with the Commission is incorporated by reference into this Item 11.
Item 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERSThe information at the captions ﬁEquity Compensation Plans,ﬂ ﬁStock Ownership of Certain Persons,ﬂ ﬁStock Ownership of 

Directors, Management, and Principal Shareholdersﬂ in the Registrant™s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of 

shareholders to be held on April 22, 2014 and to be filed with the Commission is incorporated by reference into this Item 12.
Item 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCEThe information at the captions ﬁPolicies and Procedures for Approval of Related Party Transactions,ﬂ ﬁTransactions with 

Related Persons, Promoters, and Certain Control Persons,ﬂ and ﬁCorporate Governance and Director Independenceﬂ in the 

Registrant™s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 22, 2014 and to be filed wit
h the Commission is incorporated by reference into this Item 13.Item 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
The information at the captions ﬁAudit Fees and Related Matters,ﬂ ﬁAudit and Non-Audit Fees,ﬂ and ﬁAudit Committee Policy 

for Pre-approval of Independent Auditor Servicesﬂ in the Registrant™s definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of 

shareholders to be held on April 22, 2014 and to be filed with the Commission is incorporated by reference into this Item 14.
Part IVItem 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a)(1) Financial Statements of SunTrust Banks, Inc. included in this report:
Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011;

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011;

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013, and 2012;
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders™ Equity as of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011; and

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011.
(a)(2) Financial Statement SchedulesAll financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or 

the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.(a)(3) Exhibits210The following documents are filed as part of this report:Exhibit  Description  3.1Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation
 of the Registrant, restated effective January 16, 2009, 

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 22, 

2009, as further amended by Articles of Amendment dated December 19, 2012, incorporated by reference 

to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 20, 2012.  *
3.2Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended and restated on August 8, 2011, incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2011.
  *
4.1Indenture
 between Registrant and PNC, N.A., as Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to 
Registration Statement No. 33-62162.  *
4.2Indenture
 between Registrant and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Trustee, incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement No. 33-62162.  *
4.3Form of Indenture
 to be used in connection with the issuance of Subordinated Debt Securities, 
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration Statement No. 333-25381.  *
4.4Second Supplemental Indenture 
by and among National Commerce Financial Corporation, SunTrust 
Banks, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, dated September 22, 2004, incorporated by reference 

to Exhibit 4.9 to Registrant's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
  *
4.5First Supplemental Indenture
 between National Commerce Financial Corporation and the Bank of New 
York, as Trustee, dated as of March 27, 1997, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registration 

Statement on Form S-4 of National Commerce Bancorporation (File No. 333-29251).  *
4.6Indenture
 between National Commerce Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee, 
dated as of March 27, 1997, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on 

Form S-4 of National Commerce Bancorporation (File No. 333-29251).  *
4.7Indenture,
 dated as of October 25, 2006, between SunTrust Banks, Inc. and U.S. Bank National 
Association, as Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement 

on Form 8-A filed on December 5, 2006.
  *
4.8Form of First Supplemental Indenture 
(to Indenture dated as of October 25, 2006) between SunTrust 
Banks, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to 

the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on October 24, 2006.
  *
4.9Form of Second Supplemental Indenture
 (to Indenture dated as of October 25, 2006) between SunTrust 
Banks, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to 

the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on December 5, 2006.
  *
4.10Senior Indenture
 dated as of September 10, 2007 by and between SunTrust Banks, Inc. and U.S. Bank 
National Association, as Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed on September 10, 2007.  *
4.11Form of Third Supplemental Indenture to the Junior Subordinated Notes Indenture
 between 
SunTrust Banks, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 

4.4 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on March 3, 2008.
  *
4.12Warrant Agreement 
dated September 22, 2011, among SunTrust Banks, Inc., Computershare Inc. and 
Computershare Trust Company, N.A., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Form 

8-A filed September 23, 2011. 
  *
4.13Warrant Agreement
 dated September 22, 2011, among SunTrust Banks, Inc., Computershare Inc. and 
Computershare Trust Company, N.A., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Form 

8-A filed September 23, 2011. 
  *
4.14Form of Series A Preferred Stock Certificate,
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 12, 2006.  *
4.15Form of Series E Preferred Stock Certificate,
 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 20, 2012.  *
211
Exhibit  Description  10.1SunTrust Banks, Inc. Annual Incentive Plan (formerly Management Incentive Plan),
 amended and 

restated as of January 1, 2014.  **
10.2SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan
, amended and restated as of January 1, 2011, incorporated by 
reference to Appendix A to the Company's definitive proxy statement filed March 8, 2011, together with 

(i) Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement; (ii) Form of Performance-Vested Stock Option 

Agreement; (iii) Form of Pro-Rata Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement; (iv) Form of Restricted 

Stock Agreement (3-year cliff vesting); (v) Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (3-year ratable vesting); 

(vi) Form of Performance Stock Agreement; (vii) Form of CCP Long Term Restricted Stock Award 

Agreement; (viii) Form of Performance Stock Unit Agreement; (ix) Form of TSR Performance-Vested 

Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement; (x) Form of Tier 1 Capital Performance-Vested Restricted Stock 

Unit Award Agreement; (xi) Form of (2010) Salary Share Stock Unit Award Agreement; (xii) Form of 

(2011) SunTrust Banks, Inc. Salary Share Stock Unit Agreement; (xiii) Form of Non-Employee Director 

Restricted Stock Award Agreement; (xiv) Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit Award 

Agreement; (xv) Form of Co-investment Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement with clawback under 

the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan; (xvi) Form of Performance Vested (ROA) Restricted Stock 

Unit Award Agreement with clawback under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan; (xvii) Form of 

Performance Vested (TSR) Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement with clawback under the SunTrust 

Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan; (xviii) Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement with clawback 

under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan; (xix) Form of Time Vested Restricted Stock Award 

Agreement with clawback under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock Plan; (xx) Form of 2012 Non-

Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement (2-year cliff vested) under the SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2009 Stock 

Plan; (xxi) Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, 2013 RORWA; and (xxii) Form of Restricted 

Stock Unit Award Agreement, 2013 TSR; 
incorporated by reference to
 (i) Exhibit 10.1.1 to the Company's 
Registration Statement No. 333-158866 on Form S-8 filed April 28, 2009; (ii) Exhibit 10.1.2 to the 

Company's Registration Statement No. 333-158866 on Form S-8 filed April 28, 2009; (iii) Exhibit 10.3 

of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 4, 2011; (iv) Exhibit 10.1.4 to the Company's 

Registration Statement No. 333-158866 on Form S-8 filed April 28, 2009; (v) Exhibit 10.1.3 to the 

Company's Registration Statement No. 333-158866 on Form S-8 filed April 28, 2009; (vi) Exhibit 10.1.6 

to the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-158866 on Form S-8 filed April 28, 2009; (vii) Exhibit 

10.1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2010; (viii) Exhibit 10.1.7 to 
the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-158866 on Form S-8 filed April 28, 2009; (ix) Exhibit 

10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed April 27, 2011; (x) Exhibit 10.2 of the 

Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 4, 2011; (xi) Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Current 

Report on Form 8-K/A filed January 13, 2010; (xii) Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Current Report on 

Form 8-K filed January 6, 2011; (xiii) Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed 

April 27, 2011; (xiv) Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 27, 2011; 

(xv) to (xix) Exhibits 10.26 to 10.30 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 24, 

2012; (xx) Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 1, 2012; (xxi) 

Exhibit 10.23 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 27, 2013; and (xxii) Exhibit 

10.24 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 27, 2013.
  *
10.3SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan 
effective April 20, 2004, as amended and restated February 12, 
2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed 

February 15, 2008, as further amended effective January 1, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 

10.14 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 7, 2009, together with (i) Form of 

Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, (ii) Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, (iii) Form of Director 

Restricted Stock Agreement, and (iv) Form of Director Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, incorporated 

by reference to (i) Exhibit 10.70 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2006, 

(ii)Exhibit 10.71 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2006, (iii) Exhibit 10.72 

of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2006, and (iv) Exhibit 10.74 of the 

Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 8, 2006.  *
10.4SunTrust Banks, Inc. 2000 Stock Plan
, effective February 8, 2000, and amendments effective January 
1, 2005, November 14, 2006, and January 1, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to Registrant's 

2000 Proxy Statement on Form 14A (File No. 001-08918), to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to the Registrant's 

Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 16, 2007, and to Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant's Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed January 7, 2009.  *
10.5SunTrust Banks, Inc. 1995 Executive Stock Plan
, and amendments effective as of August 11, 1998 and 
January 1, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Registrant's 1999 Annual Report on Form 

10-K (File No. 001-08918), Exhibit 10.20 to Registrant's 1998 Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 

001-08918), and to Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 7, 2009.  *
10.6GB&T Bancshares, Inc. Stock Option Plan of 1997
, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the 

annual report on Form 10-K of GB&T Bancshares Inc. filed March 31, 2003 (File No. 005-82430).
  *
212Exhibit  Description  10.7GB&T Bancshares, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan
, incorporated by reference to 
Appendix A to the definitive proxy statement of GB&T Bancshares Inc. filed April 18, 2007 (File No. 

005-82430).  *
10.8SunTrust Banks, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
, amended and restated as of January 1, 
2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed 

August 9, 2011, as further amended by Amendment Number One, effective as of January 1, 2012, 

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 

24, 2012.*10.9SunTrust Banks, Inc. ERISA Excess Retirement Plan,
 amended and restated effective as of January 1, 
2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed 

August 9, 2011, as further amended by Amendment Number One, effective as of January 1, 2012, 

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 

24, 2012.  *
10.10SunTrust Restoration Plan,
 amended and restated effective May 31, 2011, incorporated by reference to 

Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2011, as further amended 

by Amendment Number One, effective as of January 1, 2012, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 

to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 24, 2012.
  *
10.11Forms of Change in Control Agreements
 between Registrant and (i) William H. Rogers, Jr., (ii) Aleem 
Gillani, (iii) Thomas E. Freeman, (iv) Mark A. Chancy, and (v) Anil Cheriyan, incorporated by reference 

to: (i) - (iii), Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 23, 2010; (iv), 

Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 23, 2010; and (v) Exhibit 

10.16 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 24, 2012.
  *
10.12SunTrust Banks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan,
 amended and restated effective as of January 1, 
2012, (including amendments through December 31, 2012)incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.2 

and 10.2.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 27, 2012.  *
10.13SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Plan
, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2012 (including 
amendments through December 31, 2012), incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1, 10.1.1, 10.1.2, 

10.1.3, and 10.1.4 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 27, 2012.  *
10.14SunTrust Banks, Inc. 401(k) Plan Trust Agreement
, amended and restated as of July 1, 2011, 
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 

24, 2012.  *
10.15Consent Order
 dated April 13, 2011 by and among the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 

System, SunTrust Banks, Inc.; SunTrust Bank; and SunTrust Mortgage, Inc., incorporated by reference 

to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2011, as amended 

February 28, 2013, such amendment incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q filed May 7, 2013. *10.16Master Agency Agreement,
 dated as of September 13, 2010 among SunTrust and SunTrust Robinson 
Humphrey, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed on September 

14, 2010), as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Master Agency Agreement, dated October 3, 2012, 

incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 

3, 2012.*10.17Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement,
 2014 Return on Tangible Common Equity.
**10.18Form of Time-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement,
 2014 Type I.
**10.19Form of Time-Vested Restricted Stock Unit Agreement,
 2014 Type II.
**12.1Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.
  **
21.1Registrant's Subsidiaries.  **
23.1Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
  **
213Exhibit  Description  31.1Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted 
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  **
31.2Certification of Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  **
32.1Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted 
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  **
32.2Certification of Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  **
101.1Interactive Data File.**Certain instruments defining rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its subsidiaries are not filed herewith 

pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. At the Commission™s request, the Registrant agrees to give the Commission 

a copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries and any of its 

unconsolidated subsidiaries for which financial statements are required to be filed under which the total amount of debt 

securities authorized does not exceed ten percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated 

basis.*incorporated by reference

**filed herewith214SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly 
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.Dated:February 24, 2014
By: /s/ William H. Rogers, Jr.
     William H. Rogers, Jr., Chairman
     and Chief Executive OfficerPOWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes 
and appoints Raymond D. Fortin and Aleem Gillani and each of them acting individually, as his attorneys-in-fact, each with 

full power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to file th
e same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the SEC, hereby ratifying and confirming our 

signatures as they may be signed by our said attorney to any and all amendments said Form 10-K.Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Form 10-K has been signed below by the 
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:215SignaturesDateTitlePrincipal Executive Officer:/s/ William H. Rogers, Jr.    
February 24, 2014Chairman of the Board (Director) and
William H. Rogers, Jr.DateChief Executive Officer

Principal Financial Officer:/s/ Aleem GillaniFebruary 24, 2014Corporate Executive Vice President and
Aleem GillaniDateChief Financial Officer

Principal Accounting Officer:/s/ Thomas E. Panther    
February 24, 2014Senior Vice President and Director of Corporate
Thomas E. PantherDate Finance & Controller

Directors:/s/ Robert M. Beall, II    
February 24, 2014Director
Robert M. Beall, IIDate
/s/ Alston D. CorrellFebruary 24, 2014Director
Alston D. CorrellDate
______________________________Director
Jeffrey C. CroweDate
/s/ David H. HughesFebruary 24, 2014Director
David H. HughesDate
/s/ M. Douglas IvesterFebruary 24, 2014Director
M. Douglas IvesterDate
/s/ Kyle Prechtl LeggFebruary 24, 2014Director
Kyle Prechtl LeggDate
/s/ William A. LinnenbringerFebruary 24, 2014Director
William A. LinnenbringerDate
/s/ Donna MoreaFebruary 24, 2014Director
Donna MoreaDate
/s/ David M. RatcliffeFebruary 24, 2014Director
David M. RatcliffeDate
/s/ Frank P. Scruggs, Jr.February 24, 2014Director
Frank P. Scruggs, Jr.Date
/s/ Thomas R. WatjenFebruary 24, 2014Director
Thomas R. WatjenDate
/s/ Dr. Phail Wynn, Jr.February 24, 2014Director
Dr. Phail Wynn, Jr.Date
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Intntionally_Blank.indd   1Intntionally_Blank.indd   12/25/14   11:06 AM2/25/14   11:06 AMTHIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Intntionally_Blank.indd   2Intntionally_Blank.indd   22/25/14   11:06 AM2/25/14   11:06 AMTHIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Intntionally_Blank.indd   3Intntionally_Blank.indd   32/25/14   11:06 AM2/25/14   11:06 AMDesign:
  paragraphs.com
Corporate Headquarters
SunTrust Banks, Inc. 

303 Peachtree Street, NE 

Atlanta, GA 30308 

404.588.7711 Corporate Mailing Address
SunTrust Banks, Inc. 

P.O. Box 4418 

Center 645 

Atlanta, GA 30302-4418 
Notice of Annual Meeting
The Annual Meeting of Share-

holders will be held on Tuesday, 

April 22, 2014, at 9:30 a.m. in 
Suite 105 on the ﬁ
 rst ﬂ
 oor of 
SunTrust Plaza Gar
  ces, 
303 Peachtree Center Avenue, 

Atlanta, Georgia.
Stock Trading
SunTrust Banks, Inc. common 

stock is traded on the New York 

Stock Exchange (NYSE) under 

the symbol STI. 
Quarterly Common Stock Prices And Dividends
The quarterly high, low, and close prices of SunTrust’s common stock 

for each quarter of 2013 and 2012 and the dividends paid per share 

are shown below. 
      
Market Price  Dividends 
Quarter Ended High Low Close Paid 

2013 
December 31  $36.99 $31.97 $36.81 $0.10

September 30  36.29 31.59 32.42 0.10

June 30  32.84 26.97 31.57 0.10

March 31  29.98 26.93 28.81 0.05

2012
December 31  $30.64 $25.30 $28.35 $0.05

September 30  30.79 22.34 28.27 0.05

June 30  24.83 20.96 24.23 0.05

March 31  24.93 18.07 24.17 0.05
Credit Ratings
Ratings as of December 31, 2013.
              
   Standard  
 Moody’s & Poor’s Fitch

Corporate Level

Long-term ratings 

Senior debt  Baa1 BBB BBB

Subordinated debt Baa2 BBB BBB

Preferred stock Ba1 BB BB 

Short-term ratings
 P-2 A-2 F2
Bank Level

Long-term ratings

Senior debt A3 BBB  BBB

Subordinated debt  Baa1 BBB BBB 

Short-term ratings
 P-2 A-2 F2
Ratings Outlook
 Stable Positive Positive
Shareholder Services
Registered shareholders of SunTrust Banks, Inc. who wish to change 

the name, address, or ownership of common stock, to report 

lost certiﬁ cates, or to consolidate accounts should contact our
transfer agent:

 Computershare 

 250 Royall Street Mail Stop 1A

 Canton, MA 02021

 866.299.4214 

 www.computershare.com

For general shareholder information, contact Investor Relations at 

877.930.8971.Analyst Information
Analysts, investors, and others seeking additional financial 

information should contact:

  Ankur Vyas
Director of Investor Relations

SunTrust Banks, Inc.

P.O. Box 4418

Mail Code:  GA-ATL-634

Atlanta, GA 30302-4418

877.930.8971
investorrelations@suntrust.com
Investor Relations Website
To ﬁ nd the latest investor information about SunTrust, 
including 
stock quotes, news releases, corporate governance information, 
and ﬁ nancial data, go to www.suntrust.com/investorrelations. 
Client Information 
For assistance with SunTrust products and services, call 800.SUNTRUST 

or visit www.suntrust.com.   
Website Access to United States Securities 

and Exchange Commission Filings 
All reports filed electronically by SunTrust Banks, Inc. with the 

United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including the 

annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current 

event reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports ﬁ
 led 
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, 

are accessible as soon as reasonably practicable at no cost on the 

Investor Relations website at www.suntrust.com/investorrelations. 
Shareholder Information
++++--44686_Cvr.indd   244686_Cvr.indd   22/28/14   4:05 PM2/28/14   4:05 PM44686_Cvr.indd   144686_Cvr.indd   12/28/14   4:05 PM2/28/14   4:05 PM