Lighting the Way to 
Financial Well-Being
ANNUAL REPORT
2015SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.
 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SunTrust Banks, Inc. is a purpose-driven company dedicated to 
Lighting the Way to Financial Well-Being
 for the 
people, businesses, and communities it serves. Headquartered in Atlanta, the company has three business segments: 

Consumer Banking and Private Wealth Management, Wholesale Banking, and Mortgage. Its flagship subsidiary, 

SunTrust Bank, operates an extensive branch and ATM network throughout the high-growth Southeast and Mid-

Atlantic states, along with 24-hour digital access. Certain business lines serve consumer, commercial, corporate, and 

institutional clients nationally. As of December 31, 2015, SunTrust had total assets of $191 billion and total deposits 

of $150 billion. The company provides deposit, credit, trust, investment, mortgage, asset management, securities 

brokerage, and capital market services.
(Dollars in millions and shares in thousands, except per share data)
Year ended December 31
201520142013For the Year
Net income
$1,933
$1,774
$1,344Net income available to common shareholders
1,863
1,722
1,297Adjusted net income available to common shareholders
11,863
1,729
1,476Total revenue Œ FTE
1,28,174
8,305
8,194
Noninterest expense
5,160
5,543
5,831
Per Common Share

Net income Œ diluted
$3.58
$3.23
$2.41
Adjusted net income Œ diluted
13.58
3.24
2.74
Dividends declared
0.92
0.70
0.35
Common stock closing price
42.84
41.90
36.81
Book value
43.66
41.52
38.61
Tangible book value
131.65
29.82
27.01
Financial Ratios

Return on average total assets
1.02%
0.97%
0.78%
Return on average tangible common shareholders™ equity
111.64
11.339.25
Net interest margin
22.91
3.07
3.24
Tangible efficiency ratio
1,262.64
66.44
70.89
Adjusted tangible efficiency ratio
1,262.64
63.34
65.27
CET1 (Basel III)
39.96
N/A
N/A
Tier 1 common equity (Basel I)
3N/A
9.60
9.82
At December 31

Total assets
$190,817
$190,328
$175,335 
Loans
136,442
133,112
127,877
Deposits149,830
140,567
129,759
Total shareholders™ equity
23,437
23,
00521,422Common shares outstanding
508,712
524,540536,097
Full-time equivalent employees
24,043
24,638
26,281
1  See reconciliation of non-U.S. GAAP measures in Table 1, ﬁSelected Financial Data and Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures,ﬂ in the MD&A section (Item 7) of the Company™s 2015 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.
2 Total revenue is comprised of net interest income presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis and noninterest income. The net interest margin and efficiency ratios are presented on an 
FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of income from certain loans and investments. The Company believes this measure to be the preferred industry measurement of net 
interest income as it enhances comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources.
3 The Basel III Final Rules became effective for the Company on January 1, 2015; thus, Basel III capital ratios are not applicable (ﬁN/Aﬂ) in periods ending prior to January 1, 2015 and Basel I capital 
ratios are N/A in periods ending after January 1, 2015.
1To Our Shareholders,
SunTrust is one of the nation™s largest and strongest financial services companies. 
As a purpose-driven organization, we are dedicated to 
Lighting the Way to 

Financial Well-Being.
 We are passionate about helping people and businesses 

move from financial stress to financial confidence, and we offer counsel and 

solutions daily through all of our lines of business and online channels. As we 

celebrate the 125th year since our founding and remain rooted in a client-first 

culture, we believe that SunTrust is uniquely positioned to have a significant 

impact on the people and communities we serve.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Our commitment to our purpose and consistent strategic focus 
allowed us to deliver strong results in 2015. We grew earnings per 

share by 11%, met our efficiency ratio goal of being below 63%, 

increased our return on average assets by 5 basis points, and 

advanced the revenue growth trajectory of many businesses. We 

also grew tangible book value per share
1 by 6% and returned over 
60% of our earnings to our shareholders, continuing our trajectory 

of improving capital returns. Each of these was accomplished in the 

face of the headwinds associated with the prolonged low interest 

rate environment.  
Our earnings growth and higher returns were primarily driven 
by improvements in efficiency and asset quality. Total adjusted 
EVERYTHING WE 
DO STARTS WITH 

OUR PURPOSEWILLIAM H. ROGERS, JR.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
revenue
1 was relatively stable to the prior year, as we were able to 
offset the 16 basis point decline in net interest margin with positive 
loan and deposit growth and higher investment banking and 

mortgage-related revenue, each of which reflected solid execution 

of our strategies. 
Adjusted expenses
1 declined approximately $60 million, due 
primarily to a decline in operating losses and total compensation. 
Moreover, expenses are down a full 17% since 2011, evidence of our 

disciplined approach to operate more efficiently. As I noted earlier, 

we achieved our goal of attaining a sub-63% efficiency ratio and 

ended the year with an adjusted tangible efficiency ratio
1 of 62.6%. 
We have made considerable progress over the past few years and 
1  See reconciliation of non-U.S. GAAP measures in Table 1, ﬁSelected Financial Data and Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures,ﬂ in the MD&A section (Item 7) of the Company™s 2015 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.
remain firmly committed to achieving our long-term goal of being 
below 60%, which will be a key driver of delivering additional value 
to you, our shareholders.
Average performing loans grew $3 billion, or 2%, driven by growth 
in C&I and our consumer direct portfolio, partially offset by 

elevated payoffs and loan sales in other areas, as we continued 

our focus on returns. We have sold or securitized approximately $5 

billion of loans since the middle of 2014 to advance our balance 

sheet optimization strategy, though I would not expect this pace to 

continue in the near- to medium-term.
Average client deposits grew $12 billion, or 9%, driven by growth 
across each major line of business. This reflects our overall 

strategic focus on meeting more clients™ deposit and payment 

needs, supplemented by investments in technology platforms and 

client-facing bankers across both the Consumer & Private Wealth 

and Wholesale segments. In particular, our Wholesale Banking 

segment continues to do an outstanding job of deepening client 

relationships with our enhanced Treasury & Payment Solutions 

(T&PS) product offerings. Our strong deposit growth directly 

enabled us to reduce higher-cost long-term debt by $4.6 billion, or 

35%, over the past year.
Asset quality continued to be strong, as net charge-offs declined 
23% to 0.26% of average loans, and nonperforming loans remained 

relatively low at 0.49% of total loans, both contributing to an 

approximately 50% reduction in the provision for credit losses. This 

performance was the result of improving economic conditions in 

our markets, in addition to the significant actions we have taken 

over the past several years to improve the quality of our loan 

portfolio and de-risk our balance sheet. As an example, we sold 

$122 million of nonperforming loans in 2015. Notwithstanding 

these activities and generally stable economic conditions, we 

recognize that the prolonged level of low oil prices will place 

stress on our energy clients, and given this, we expect modest 

deterioration in our asset quality metrics in 2016. With that said, 

any adverse effects will be manageable in the context of our overall 

Company, as energy-related loan balances, as of December 31, 

2015, comprised 2% of our loan portfolio. 
Acknowledging our improved asset quality and increased 
profitability in 2015, Fitch Ratings upgraded our senior long-term 

credit rating to ﬁA-ﬂ from ﬁBBB+ﬂ in the fourth quarter, continuing 

our trajectory of improving credit ratings. 
Our capital position remains strong, with the Basel III Common 
Equity Tier 1 ratio ending the year at 9.8% on a fully phased-in 
basis.1 In addition, as I noted earlier, tangible book value per share
1 increased 6% from the prior year, which we delivered alongside 

a 39% increase in our capital return to shareholders. Our strong 

capital position, combined with an improved risk profile, should 

help us increase capital returns to shareholders in the coming year, 

while also leaving ample capital for organic growth and investment. 
As we look to 2016, we believe the U.S. economy, particularly within 
many of our markets, is on steady footing and should support our 

ability to deepen client relationships and expand our business. 

However, the tailwinds we have experienced from improving asset 

quality will abate and, thus, delivering positive operating leverage in 

2016 will be critical in helping to mitigate the impact of this transition.  
Longer term, I am very optimistic about our Company™s potential, 
as we continue to execute our core strategies. As you™ll recall, in 

2011 we developed three primary strategies to enable us to better 

serve our clients, teammates, communities, and shareholders: 

(1) meeting more client needs, (2) improving efficiency, and (3) 

optimizing the balance sheet to enhance returns. 
We have been 

diligently executing these strategies since that time and expect 

them to be our primary focus over the medium-term. Our success 

over the last four years, in part demonstrated by our 154% total 

shareholder return
2, gives us confidence that we are headed in the 
right strategic direction. 
MEETING MORE CLIENT NEEDS

We are a Top 10 bank across most dimensions and are therefore large 
enough to have the breadth of capabilities to meet an array of client 

needs. However, we are also small enough to be nimble and reactive 

to evolving client preferences and market conditions. For these 

reasons, we believe our size is an advantage. Our range of capabilities, 

combined with our SunTrust OneTeam Approach,
SM allows us the 
unique opportunity to deliver the entire bank to our clients.

 
We continued to meet more of our clients™ needs in 2015, as 

evidenced by growth in investment banking income, credit card 

penetration, and total deposits. Going forward, we will continue to be 

highly focused on deepening client relationships, with an increased 

emphasis on working together across segments and lines of business.
Within Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB), we have been 
consistently focused on three priorities over the past decade: (1) 

continuing our targeted build out of product and industry expertise, 

(2) working diligently to acquire new clients and deepen existing 

relationships, and (3) leveraging our OneTeam Approach to meet the 

capital markets needs of all SunTrust clients. 2015 was a record year 
1  See reconciliation of non-U.S. GAAP measures in Table 1, ﬁSelected Financial Data and Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures,ﬂ in the MD&A section (Item 7) of the Company™s 2015 Annual 
 Report on Form 10-K.
2 For the four years ended December 31, 2015.
23for both Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) and equity originations, a 
testament to our increasing role as the strategic advisor to our clients. 

This is also reflected by our 20% annual growth in lead relationships 

since 2011. Going forward, CIB will continue to be an important growth 

driver for the Company, both on its own and as we export its skills, 

discipline and capabilities to other lines of business within SunTrust.
Commercial and Business Banking (CBB) represents roughly 14% 
of SunTrust™s revenue and is a key growth business for us. Our goal 

is to further enhance this business by moving from an organization 

that has successfully met the core banking needs of its clients to 

one that is a more holistic, strategic partnerŠfocused on helping our 

clients achieve smart growth. We will do this by delivering relevant 

industry expertise, providing corporate finance solutions and advice, 

and leveraging the full capabilities of the entire Wholesale Banking 

platform. Executing this strategy will enable us to more effectively 

serve our commercial clients. The early results of this strategy are 

very positive: for 2015, capital markets-related revenue in our CBB 

business grew 37%, and SunTrust received eight Excellence Awards 

for middle market banking by Greenwich Associates.  
The scope of our Commercial Real Estate (CRE) business today 
includes a much greater focus on meeting more than just lending 

and deposit needs. CRE has had increased success in partnering with 

other Wholesale Banking businesses in order to deliver capital markets 
origination, M&A advisory, and treasury capabilities to our CRE clients. 

This has resulted in 80% growth in deposit balances and a quadrupling 

in capital markets fees since 2011, albeit from small bases.  
In T&PS, we have been upgrading digital capabilities across our 
small business, commercial, and corporate cash management 

platforms. In addition, specialists within CIB and T&PS are working 

more effectively together to help our corporate clients optimize 

their liquidity strategies through the use of all products, including 

deposits. This helped us deliver 16% growth in average Wholesale 

Banking deposits in 2015.
Within Consumer Banking, we have focused resources on our 
Omni-Channel strategy, which enables us to serve clients when, 

where, and how they choose to do business. To this end, we have 

significantly increased our investment in our digital capabilities over 

the past few years, as clients increasingly expect more self-service 

functionality to conduct their banking business. In 2015, we made 

several enhancements to our overall digital offering, including 

auto capture for mobile deposits, touch ID sign-on capabilities for 

mobile banking, and a new online banking website. We continue 

to place high emphasis on investments in technology in order to 

deliver increased capabilities for our clients and improved capacity 

for our teammates.     
The marketplace for consumer lending continues to evolve rapidly, 
as a growing number of consumers are moving to digital offerings for 

unsecured lending. To capitalize on these trends, we have continued 

to invest in our LightStream® business, which is an online platform 

focused on direct lending to super-prime clients in a manner that is 

low in cost and high in customer satisfaction. The application process 

is easy to understand, and the vast majority of our clients apply, fund, 

service, and repay their loans completely online. We also introduced 

LightStream into our branches last year and saw solid early results, as 

29% of all LightStream loans were originated from a SunTrust channel 

in 2015. Similarly, our partnership with GreenSky allows SunTrust to 

provide streamlined financing for the home improvement needs of 

prime and super-prime clients. We also upgraded our credit card 

offerings, providing better individual card products, in addition to 

increasing rewards as clients grow their overall SunTrust relationship. 

All three of these portfolios are relatively small today, but continue to 

grow at an attractive rate, and should enhance our profitability and 

growth trajectory over time. 
In our Mortgage business, while we are consistently focused on 
targeted growth in production and servicing, we are equally focused 

on delivering the entire bank to our Mortgage clients. As an example, 

we introduced the capability to use information from a mortgage 

application, with the client™s consent, to also approve them for 
ﬁWe are a Top 10 bank across
most dimensions and are

therefore large enough to have

the breadth of capabilities to 

meet an array of client needs. 

However, we are also small

enough to be nimble and reactive 

to evolving client preferences

and market conditions. Our 

range of capabilities, combined 

with our SunTrust OneTeam 

Approach, allows us the unique 

opportunity to deliver the entire 

bank to our clients.ﬂ 
4a SunTrust credit card. In the second half of 2015, 18% of our 
mortgage clients accepted this offer. In addition, the number of 

converted referrals from Mortgage to Private Wealth Management 

doubled, compared to 2014. All of these initiatives are in early 

stages, but are critical in helping meet our strategic objective of 

deepening client relationships. 
Collectively, these examples reflect the breadth of our capabilities 
and the diversity of our overall business model. I am proud of 

the progress we have made, but also believe we still have further 

opportunity to deliver the full capabilities of SunTrust to both 

current and prospective clients.
IMPROVING EFFICIENCY

Improving efficiency continues to be a strategic priority, with a 
long-term objective of reducing the ratio to under 60%. We have 

made significant progress over the past few years, as we have 

improved our adjusted tangible efficiency ratio
1 from 72% in 2011 to 
under 63% in 2015. This progress has been driven predominantly 

by a 17% reduction in expenses, an accomplishment that has 

been achieved while also making significant investments in our 

businesses and infrastructure. Despite this progress, our focus on 

disciplined expense management and cost reduction initiatives 

remains high, as it will help fund investments in growth and, thus, 

result in continued improvement in overall efficiency.
In Consumer Banking, we have increased our technology spend 
to further our Omni-Channel strategy, which has resulted in a 
greatly improved virtual experience for our clients and has enabled 

us to reduce the physical presence of our retail branch network. 

This, combined with broader real estate consolidation in many 

other parts of our organization, has led to a 17% reduction in total 

company-wide square footage over the past four years. In fact, our 

entire executive management team moved into a new space in 

2015, allowing us to both double our real estate density and create 

a more engaging and collaborative work environment amongst our 

teammates. I have been highly energized by the increased activity 

and camaraderie in our new space, which we call OneTeam Central. 

These collective savings are being invested in client-facing digital 

capabilities, as self-service utilization among consumers continues 

to increase. At the end of 2015, self-service consumer deposits, 

excluding direct deposits, represented 38% of total consumer 

deposits, and digital sales represented 14% of total sales, both up 

meaningfully, relative to the prior year.  
Separately, we continue to invest in better tools and technology 
to streamline various processes and better equip our teammates, 

which yields an improved client experience, increased teammate 

capacity, and lower costs. In both Wholesale Banking and 

Mortgage, we made the transition to new loan origination systems 

which streamline information sharing among all parties and 

greatly improve the speed and transparency of the loan origination 

process. In Mortgage, this transition also allowed us to more 

efficiently meet the new TRID
3 regulatory requirements which 
became effective October 1, 2015. Both transitions were significant 

and important undertakings, and we expect to see the full benefit 

of these new platforms in 2016.  
OPTIMIZING THE BALANCE SHEET & IMPROVING RETURNS

Our third strategic priority focuses on optimizing our balance 
sheet and improving returns. This strategy once focused primarily 

on reducing our residential-related exposure to achieve a more 

diversified loan portfolio; however, since this objective was 

achieved ahead of schedule, our focus has migrated to enhancing 

returns within the current portfolio. 
Within Wholesale Banking, we intensified our focus on improving 
the risk-adjusted return on each client and became more diligent 

in ensuring that our return hurdles were being achieved when 

considering the total relationship. As I mentioned earlier, we 

have had great success in growing deposits in the Wholesale 

Banking business, which has the dual benefit of deepening client 

relationships and improving our overall returns.
In our Consumer Banking segment, we are focused on improving 
the returns and growth of our consumer lending portfolio by 
ﬁWe have made significant
progress over the past few years, 

as we have improved our 

adjusted tangible efficiency 

ratio
1 from 72% in 2011 to 
under 63% in 2015. Despite

this progress, our focus on 

disciplined expense management 

and cost reduction initiatives 

remains high, as it will help fund 

investments in growth and, thus, 

result in continued improvement 

in overall efficiency.ﬂ  
1  See reconciliation of non-U.S. GAAP measures in Table 1, ﬁSelected Financial Data and Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures,ﬂ in the MD&A section (Item 7) of the Company™s 2015 Annual 
 Report on Form 10-K.
3 TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule
5expanding certain businesses and de-emphasizing lower-return 
portfolios. The strong growth in our consumer-direct portfolios, 

which includes LightStream, our partnership with GreenSky, and 

credit cards, has afforded us the opportunity to sell, securitize, 

or reduce production in lower-return areas. This was partially 

evidenced by our $1 billion indirect auto securitization this past 

year, which improved our ROA and also enhanced our ability to 

be a strong loan origination partner to our auto dealer clients. In 

the Mortgage segment, we are leveraging our capacity to grow 

our servicing portfolio organically and through acquisitions, as 

we view performing servicing as a core competency and a solid 

ROE business. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I would like to recognize a key milestone in our Company™s history: 
2015 marked the 30th anniversary of the merger between the Trust 

Company of Georgia, headquartered in Atlanta, and SunBanks, Inc., 

headquartered in Orlando, which created SunTrust Banks, Inc. I am 

proud of our rich heritage, and the longevity of this franchise is a 

testament to our longstanding commitment to put our clients and 

communities first. As Linton Allen, a founder of SunBank said, ﬁIf 

you build your community, you build your bank.ﬂ Those words still 

inspire us today.   
In December 2015, SunTrust welcomed two new directors, Dallas S. 
Clement, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Cox 
Enterprises, and Bruce L. Tanner, executive vice president and chief 

financial officer for Lockheed Martin Corporation. We look forward 

to benefiting from both of their extensive finance and business 

experience and perspectives. In addition, Robert M. Beall, II, David 

H. Hughes, and William A. Linnenbringer will retire from the board 

when their current terms expire at SunTrust™s Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders in April 2016. I want to thank these leaders for their 

dedication and commitment to representing the interests of our 

clients, shareholders and teammates throughout their tenures on 

the board, particularly David, who was an original SunTrust director, 

which is noteworthy given our anniversary.
To conclude, I thank our teammates for their key role in 
delivering our 2015 financial results. I also thank each of you, our 

shareholders, for your continued investment and support. The 

stewardship of your capital is my most important responsibility. 

In 2015, your capital helped us originate $97 billion of loans, 

enabling hundreds of thousands of clients across the country 

to achieve significant milestones, such as buying a house, 

expanding their business, or sending their children to college. I 

am humbled daily by the opportunity and responsibility we have 

to Light the Way to Financial Well-Being
 for millions of clients. 
With three-quarters of Americans worried about money, it is this 

responsibility which led to my conviction that SunTrust needed 

to build upon its purpose by sparking a movement for financial 

confidence. We call this movement ﬁonUp.ﬂ It is designed to be 

a catalyst in inspiring people to make personal commitments 

to improve their financial health. Through onUp.com and other 

initiatives, we will provide tools, resources, and hopefully a little 

motivation, to take the first step in moving from financial stress 

to financial confidenceŠall with the goal of allowing our consumer 

and business clients to pursue a life well spent and to achieve 

smart, long-term growth. We stand ready and steadfast and are 

excited about the opportunity ahead.
 WILLIAM H. ROGERS, JR.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

SUNTRUST BANKS, INC.

FEBRUARY 26, 2016
ﬁI also thank each of you, our 
shareholders, for your continued
investment and support. 

The stewardship of your capital 

is my most important 

responsibility. In 2015, your 

capital helped us originate 
$97 billion of loans, enabling 

hundreds of thousands of 

clients across the country to 

achieve significant milestones, 

such as buying a house, 
expanding their business, or 

sending their children to college.ﬂ  
Statements regarding our goals, objectives, strategies, priorities, future asset quality, future capital returns to investors, and future investments are forward-looking statements. Investors are 
cautioned against placing undue reliance upon these statements since they are subject to material risks and uncertainties. We list some of the factors that could affect these statements in the 

attached annual report on Form 10-K at Item 7, Management™s Discussion and Analysis, beginning on page 22.
6OUR PURPOSE HAS NEVER BEEN 
MORE IMPORTANT
80%When you ask Americans what keeps them 
up at night, over 80% will say one word:
We believe financial stress deeply impacts
 livesŠit ruins our health, makes us less 
productive, and it robs us of the things in life 

that matter most. 
7At SunTrust, we feel we are in a position to take the lead and alleviate 
the stress that people feel when it comes to their finances. We believe we 

can make a true difference in the lives of everyone we serve:
Helping guide, advise, and lead people along their road to financial confidence 
and wellness, or as we call it, 
LIGHTING THE WAY TO FINANCIAL WELL-BEING
, 
is the motivation behind everything SunTrust does. And the end of that road is a 

LIFE WELL SPENT
Ša life of financial strength and confidence. 
Over 70% of Americans identify as 

financially stressed
*Stress report, American Psychological Association, 2013
40% of Americans and 60% of 

millennials say they have less than 

$2,000 saved for an emergency 
33% of Americans don™t have 

anything saved for retirement
70%40%60%OUR  CLIENTSOUR  SHAREHOLDERSOUR  
COMMUNITIES
OUR  
TEAMMATES
33%8INSPIRING OUR CLIENTS TO TAKE THE NEXT STEP
Every day, we can see the true difference we make in 
the lives of the people we serveŠfrom helping parents 

send their kids to college, to helping someone buy their 

first car to drive to their first job, to helping a business 

expand and hire more employees. 
We are committed to providing the products and 
expertise our clients need to achieve the confidence to 

pursue a life well spent.
2015 ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
We introduced new checking value packages and a credit card product 
suite that allow our clients to more 
EASILY FIND THE PRODUCT THAT 

BEST FITS THEIR WANTS AND NEEDS 
Across the Company, we continued to invest in technology to 
MAKE IT SIMPLER 
FOR CLIENTS TO DO BUSINESS WITH US
We introduced our online lending platform, LightStream, to all 

SunTrust branches, which allows our clients to 
OBTAIN A LOAN 

IN A MUCH SIMPLER, FASTER MANNER 
In Commercial Banking, we added more corporate finance and 

industry expertise, allowing us to 
DELIVER MORE COMPREHENSIVE 

SOLUTIONS
 to our middle market commercial clients. Our clients have 

noticedŠtheir feedback led to SunTrust being awarded eight Excellence 

Awards for middle market banking by Greenwich Associates
Implemented new loan origination systems in Wholesale Banking 
and Mortgage to streamline information sharing and improve 

speed and transparency of the loan origination process to help 

clients ﬁknow before they oweﬂ
Created a more user-friendly interface for our Online Treasury 
Management platform
Introduced a new online banking website and added key features 
to mobile banking, including auto capture for mobile deposits and 

touch ID sign-on
9HELPING OUR CLIENTS PURSUE A LIFE WELL SPENT
THE SUNTRUST ONLINE RESOURCE CENTER
 provides rich 
content and robust tools to help clients budget, monitor their 

finances, and wisely save and invest for the future
We will also offer the proprietary 
ﬁFINANCIAL FITNESS FOR COMPANIESﬂ
 program 
Within Wholesale Banking, our 
ONETEAM APPROACH
 and industry expertise is key 

to helping our clients pursue smart growth and reach their full potential
Includes tools for buying a home, saving for college, 
 and planning for retirement 
Features the intellectual property of 8 Pillars, the leading experts in 

Workplace Financial Wellness Programs
Comprehensive, behavior-changing learning program designed to 

help our clients and their employees become better managers of their 

personal finances
OUR CONSUMER CLIENTS
OUR WHOLESALE CLIENTS
1011FINANCIAL ISSUES ARE THE NUMBER ONE CAUSE OF 
WORKPLACE STRESS.
 Employees worry about, calculate, 
 or stress over their finances at work for an average of 28 hours 

per month. There is a 3 to 1 return on investment for employee 

Financial Well-Being programs in the workplace. 
12BUILDING OUR COMMUNITIES
Linton Allen, a founder of SunBank said, ﬁIf you build your 
community, you build your bank.ﬂ These words still inspire 

us today and drive us to invest both time and money in 

the places we work and live.
2015 ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
Provided a total of 
$14.1 MILLION
 to over 1,500 educational institutions and nonprofits
Teammates and retirees pledged 
$6.3 MILLION
 during our 
 United Way campaign
Teammates logged 
241,000 HOURS OF VOLUNTEER TIME
 and 
worked with more than 
3,200 NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
 to 
complete 
48,000 COMMUNITY SERVICE ACTIVITIES
SUNTRUST FOUNDATION
Received the Financial Services Roundtable (FSR) Corporate 
Social Responsibility Leadership Award, recognizing 

leadership and dedication to improving their communities 

and promoting financial literacy education
We originated
 $23 BILLION in mortgages to help 86,000 clients purchase, 
refinance, or improve their home. Of these, 34% were low- to moderate-

income borrowers or homes in low- to moderate-income communities
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
In addition, SunTrust provided 
$2.7 BILLION IN BUSINESS LOANS 
AND INVESTMENTS that supported affordable housing, economic 

development and job growth, community services, and the 

revitalization and stabilization of targeted areas in low- to moderate-

income communities
13LIGHTSTREAM continued its partnership with American Forests 
through which they plant a tree each time a consumer funds a loan, 
helping reforest and conserve 250 acres of U.S. wilderness areas
Teams across multiple SunTrust lines of business helped enable the Sears Crosstown 

REVITALIZATION PROJECT IN MEMPHIS, 
delivering thousands of new jobs, 
 $37 million in ongoing annual wages, and $1.5 million in new annual tax revenue 
We know that financial stress impacts many individuals in the communities 

where we live and work. The SunTrust Foundation will continue to support financial 

education programs in community organizations with the ultimate goal of helping 

individuals become more financially confident
2015 ACCOMPLISHMENTS (CONTINUED)
Marks the largest redevelopment project in the history of the city of Memphis
SunTrust Commercial Real Estate was awarded the ﬁ2015 Community 
Development QLICIs of the Yearﬂ Award, recognizing exceptional qualified 

low-income community investments (QLCI) 
HELPING OUR COMMUNITIES 
PURSUEA LIFE WELL SPENT
WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO OUR VETERANS
 In 2015, we originated over $1 billion of VA 
mortgages, helping thousands of veterans and their 

spouses buy, build, or renovate a house 
Our veteran hiring rate increased 18% over 2014 and 
has more than doubled since 2013, giving hundreds 

of veterans new career opportunities, while allowing 

our company and clients to benefit from their leadership, 

composure, and OneTeam Approach  
1415ﬁFrom Florida to Montana, we™ve revitalized fire and drought-
damaged national park and wilderness areas. As one of our top 
 20 donors, LightStream has made a valuable contribution to 
these critical efforts.ﬂ
- LEA SLOAN, 
VICE PRESIDENT OF COMMUNICATIONS AT AMERICAN FORESTS
16GUIDING OUR TEAMMATES TO BETTER 
INSPIRE OTHERS
As a company, we work as one team, and our dedication 
to Financial Well-Being begins with our teammates. 

As with our clients, we are also committed to helping our 

teammates achieve their own financial confidence.
2015 ACCOMPLISHMENTS 
Over 12,000 teammates participated in our
 FINANCIAL FITNESS 
PROGRAM
 to become better managers of their personal finances. 

Over 70% agreed they have greater financial confidence since starting 

the program
Teammates participated in our 
DAY OF PURPOSE
, an extra day off to 
get their personal finances in order, in addition to a 
VOLUNTEER DAY,
  
to spend time helping others
We implemented new programs aimed at 
IMPROVING TEAMMATES™ 

PHYSICAL WELL-BEING 
by providing physical activity tracking devices 
 and health assessments through on-site health clinics
We introduced new Teammate Networks to promote inclusion and 

give employees
 NEW OPPORTUNITIES TO NETWORK, LEARN, AND 

SHARE IDEAS
. These networks also promote a better understanding of 

different backgrounds and contribute to engagement, recruitment, and 

volunteerism across SunTrust
SunTrust Financial Fitness Program fot Teammates  .Through our partnership with 
REDBRICK HEALTH
, we are 

expanding our 
FINANCIAL FITNESS PROGRAM
 by providing 

teammates with more access to health and well-being 

services, including health coaches and health tracking tools
17HELPING OUR TEAMMATES 
PURSUE A LIFE WELL SPENT
Through programs like the annual 
TEAMMATE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY
, we aim 

to continue the dialogue about how we can 

help our teammates continue to take steps 

toward financial confidence 
12
3We will continue to build an even stronger team by offering opportunities for 
teammates to enhance their skills and performance with access to career resources
18PATHways
 (Professional Banking Operations and 
Leadership Program) is a 36-credit certificate program 

providing deeper understanding of the banking industry 

and our Company
myCareer
, a newly launched online tool, helps teammates access 

the many career resources available at SunTrust and empowers 

them to move ahead in their career development
19ﬁI am thrilled with the Financial Fitness Program so far and 
am thankful this was offered–I am already feeling more 
comfortable with the steps I have learned and am applying 

them for results.ﬂ
- SUNTRUST TEAMMATE
20WE™RE CHANGING THE CONVERSATION
 ABOUT MONEY
TAKE THE NEXT STEP WITH US
 Together, we can make a difference.
Visit onUp.com
 and join the growing number of people
 who are using positive motivation to move onUp.
Our purpose has inspired us to take a 
 stand and spark a movement that will 

lead everyone onward and upward toward 

financial confidence.
When the onUp movement launched in early 2016, we committed 

to putting 
5 MILLION PEOPLE ON THE PATH TO FINANCIAL 

CONFIDENCE
 over the next 5 years. Our teammates are leading 

the way!
Through onUp, we are committing to be the best at what we do. 
We will use the tools we have to inspire and encourage more people 

to move toward financial control and confidence. By educating 

and equipping people to take action throughout all our lines of 

business, we can reduce financial stress and help everyone pursue 

a life well spent.
WE™RE CHANGING THE CONVERSATION
 ABOUT MONEY
2122WILLIAM H. ROGERS, JR.
1Chairman and CEO
ROBERT M. BEALL, II
2,3Chairman Beall™s Inc.

Bradenton, Florida
DALLAS S. CLEMENT
2,4Executive Vice President and CFO

Cox Enterprises, Inc.

Atlanta, Georgia
PAUL R. GARCIA
3,5
Former Chairman and CEO

Global Payments Inc.

Atlanta, Georgia
DAVID H. HUGHES
4,5Former Chairman and CEO

Hughes Supply, Inc. 

Orlando, Florida
M. DOUGLAS IVESTER
1,4,5President

Deer Run Investments, LLC 

Atlanta, Georgia
KYLE PRECHTL LEGG
1,2,3Former President and CEO

Legg Mason Capital Management 

Baltimore, Maryland
WILLIAM A. LINNENBRINGER
2,4Retired Partner

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

St. Louis, Missouri
DONNA S. MOREA
3,5
CEO

Adesso Group

Royal Oak, Maryland
DAVID M. RATCLIFFE
1,3,5
Retired Chairman, President and CEO 

Southern Company 

Atlanta, Georgia
WILLIAM H. ROGERS, JR.
Chairman and CEO
KENNETH J. CARRIG
Chief Human Resources Officer
MARK A. CHANCY
Wholesale Banking Executive
ANIL T. CHERIYAN
Chief Information Officer
HUGH S. (BEAU) CUMMINS, III
Commercial and Business Banking Executive
BRADFORD R. DINSMORE
Consumer Banking Executive
RAYMOND D. FORTIN
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
FRANK P. SCRUGGS, JR.
3,5 
Partner 
 Berger Singerman LLP

Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
BRUCE L. TANNER
4,5 
Executive Vice President and CFO
 Lockheed Martin Corporation

Bethesda, Maryland
THOMAS R. WATJEN
1,2,4Chairman of the Board 

Unum Group 

Chattanooga, Tennessee
DR. PHAIL WYNN, JR.
1,2,4Vice President, Durham and Regional Affairs 

Duke University 

Durham, North Carolina
1. Executive Committee
2. Audit Committee
3. Compensation Committee
4. Governance and Nominating Committee
5. Risk Committee
THOMAS E. FREEMAN
Consumer Banking and 

Private Wealth Management Executive
ALEEM GILLANIChief Financial Officer
SUSAN S. JOHNSON
Chief Marketing Officer
JEROME T. LIENHARD, II
Chief Risk Officer
DORINDA SMITH
President and CEO, 

SunTrust Mortgage, Inc.

























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Quarterly Common Stock Prices and Dividends 
 The quarterly high, low, and close prices of SunTrust™s 

common stock for each quarter of 2015 and 2014 and the 

dividends paid per share are shown below. 
Market Price
DividendsQuarter Ended
HighLow
ClosePaid
2015December 31 
$45.24
$36.79
$42.84
$0.24
September 30 
45.84
37.09
38.24
0.24
June 30 
44.69
40.40
43.02
0.24
March 31 
43.23
36.52
41.09
0.20
2014
December 31 
$43.06
$33.97
$41.90
$0.20
September 30 
40.86
36.42
38.03
0.20
June 30 
40.84
36.82
40.06
0.20
March 31 
41.26
36.23
39.79
0.10
 Credit Ratings
 
Ratings as of December 31, 2015
Moody™s
Standard 
& Poor™s
Fitch
Bank Level
Long-term ratings 
DepositsA1A-ASenior debt
Baa1A -A-Subordinated debt 
Baa1BBB+BBB+Short-term ratings
P-1
A-2
F1Corporate Level

Long-term ratings 
Senior debt
Baa1BBB+A-Subordinated debt
Baa1BBBBBB+Preferred stock
Baa3BB+BBRatings Outlook
Stable
Stable
Stable
Shareholder Services
Registered shareholders of SunTrust Banks, Inc. who wish to change the 

name, address, or ownership of common stock, to report lost certificates, 

or to consolidate accounts should contact our transfer agent:
 Computershare 
  P.O. Box 30170
 College Station, TX  77842-3170
  866.299.4214 
  www.computershare.com
For general shareholder information, contact 

Investor Relations at 877.930.8971.
Analyst Information 
Analysts, investors, and others seeking additional financial 

information should contact:
  
Ankur Vyas
 Director of Investor Relations
 
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
 
P.O. Box 4418
 
Mail Code:  GA-ATL-645
 
Atlanta, GA 30302-4418
 
877.930.8971
 
If you wish to contact Investor Relations via email, please use the 

ﬁContact IRﬂ link on the Investor Relations website.
Investor Relations Website 

To find the latest investor information about SunTrust, including 

stock quotes, news releases, corporate governance information, and 

financial data, go to investors.suntrust.com. 
Client Information
 For assistance with SunTrust products and services, 
 call 800.SUNTRUST or visit www.suntrust.com.   

Website Access to United States Securities 
 and Exchange Commission Filings 
All reports filed electronically by SunTrust Banks, Inc. with the United 
States Securities and Exchange Commission, including the annual 

report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current event 

reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or 

furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are 

accessible as soon as reasonably practicable at no cost on the Investor 

Relations website at investors.suntrust.com. 
Corporate Mailing Address
 SunTrust Banks, Inc. 
 P.O. Box 4418 
 
Center 645 
 
Atlanta, GA 30302-4418
Notice of Annual Meeting
 The Annual Meeting of 
 Shareholders will be held on 
Tuesday, April 26, 2016 at 
9:30 a.m., EST in Suite 105 
 on the first floor of SunTrust 

Plaza Garden Offices, 
 303 Peachtree Center Avenue, 

Atlanta, Georgia.
Stock Trading
 SunTrust Banks, Inc. common 
stock is traded on the New 

York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 

under the symbol STI. 
Corporate Headquarters
 SunTrust Banks, Inc. 
 303 Peachtree Street, NE 
 
Atlanta, GA 30308 
 
800.SUNTRUST
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
303 Peachtree Street, NE

Atlanta, GA 30308
SunTrust Bank, Member FDIC. ©2016 SunTrust Banks, Inc. SunTrust and LIghtStream are federally registered 
 service marks of SunTrust Banks, Inc. onUp and OneTeam Approach are service marks of SunTrust Banks, Inc.
