Our Vision:
Satisfy all our customers™ ˜ nancial needs and help them 
succeed ˜ nancially.
Nuestra Vision:
Deseamos satisfacer todas las necesidades ˜ nancieras 

de nuestros clientes y ayudarlos a tener éxito en el 

área˚˜ nanciera.
Notre Vision:
Satisfaire tous les besoins ˜ nanciers de nos clients 

et les aider à atteindre le succès ˜ nancier.
Wells Fargo & Company˜
˛˝˙ Montgomery Streetˆ

San Francisco, California ˇ˛˘˙˛
ellsfargo.com
WELLS FARGO
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 
2010
 ANNUAL REPORT
STANDING TOGETHER
Wells Fargo & Company Annual Report 2010
Standing together.
Bryan W., Wells Fargo customer
Bryan W., Wells Fargo customer
Bruce H., Wells Fargo customer
Bruce H., Wells Fargo customer
Juliet Z., Wells Fargo phone banker
Gigi D., Wells Fargo director of national partnerships
Gigi D., Wells Fargo director of national partnerships
Adam S., Wells Fargo investment manager
Adam S., Wells Fargo investment manager
Edward R., Wells Fargo home-preservation specialist
Edward R., Wells Fargo home-preservation specialist
Kimberly H., Wells Fargo trainer
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆ
˝˚ˇ˚
˙˘˚
˜˜ˇ
˚
˚
˘˜˚˛
˘˚˚˚

˚˝
˝
˜ˇ
ˆ˚
†˙“
˝˚˙‘˚ˆ˛˚˛

’
ˆ˜ˇ

˜˝ˇ˚
˜˙˛ˆ˛˙ˆ
˚ˆ
˛˚˛˛
˛
˙˚ˆ˚
ˆ˚
ˆˆ‘
˝˙’
˙˙ˆ˛˚˛
˙˛˙˚ˆ˚
˜˘˛˛˙˛˛˙€€˙
˜˛
ˇ˙˚
•˚
˛ˆ˝
˚
˝
˚
ˇ˚˜
‡ˇ˙ˆ˙˚
˜ˇ˙ˆ˙˚
˝˙—˛˚ˆ˙˚

˝ˆ˙˙
˘…ƒ…
˝˛‡˘…
ˆ˛
˚˛˛˚
ˇˇ‹˝˛˚ˆ
˘
…

˝˜ˆ
˝ƒ˚˚˙˙
ˇ
˙˘˚
Wells Fargo across North America and around the world
#1  Banking stores (Wells˚Fargo and Wachovia stores in 39 states & D.C.)
#1 Retail bankin
1 #1  Total stores (Wells˚Fargo and Wachovia stores)

#1  Total mortgage producer; Retail mortgage producer

#1  Mortgage lender to low-to-moderate income home buyers 
(2009˚HMDA data)
#1  Residential mortgage lender

#1  Used car lender (AutoCount 2010)

#1  Small business lender in dollars (2009 Community 
Reinvestment Act government data)
#1  SBA 7(a) lender in dollars (2010 Small Business Administration 
federal ˜ scal year-end data)
#1  Underwriter of preferred stock (FY 2010, Bloomberg)

#1  REIT preferred stock (FY 2010, Thomas Financial)

#1  Real estate lead arranger of loan syndications by volume and 
number of transactions (FY 2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#2  U.S. Deposits

#2 Debit card issuer

#2  Mortgage servicer

#2  Annuity distributor

#2  REIT common stock (FY 2010, Dealogic)
#2  High grade bond secondary trading (FY 2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)

#2  Arranger of asset-based loans by volume and number of 
transactions (FY 2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#2  Non-investment grade loan issuer by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#3  Branded bank ATM owner (12,196 Wells Fargo and Wachovia ATMs)

#3  Full-service retail brokerage provider based on number of 
Financial Advisors and client assets
#3  Loan syndication bookrunner by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#3  High grade corporate loan issuer by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#4  Wealth management provider

#5  IRA provider

#5  Family wealth provider

#5  Equity capital markets bookrunner by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, SDC)
#6  Institutional retirement plan recordkeeper

#7  Issuer of Credit Cards

#7  Merchant processor for Credit and Debit Cards

#7  Top senior manager of municipal competitive bond issues (FY˚2010)

#8  High yield bond issuer by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010,˚Bloomberg)
Countries
Argentina
Australia

Bangladesh

Brazil

Canada

Cayman Islands

ChileChina

Colombia

Dominican Republic

Ecuador

Egypt

England

France
Germany

Hong Kong

India

Indonesia

Ireland

Italy

Japan
Malaysia

Mexico

Philippines

Russia

Singapore

South Africa

South Korea
Spain

Taiwan

Thailand

Turkey

United Arab Emirates

Uruguay

Vietnam
Stores
9,000
state by state 
(map)
ATMs
12,196
wellsfargo.com
23 million
active users
Wells Fargo 
Customer 
Connection
500+ millioncalls, e-mails 
and letters
 ˜  To˚Our˚Owners
 ˛˝  Standing˚Together

 ˜˙  Standing˚Together
 With˚Our˚Communities
 ˆ˛  Board˚of˚Directorsˇ˚Senior˚Leaders

 ˆˆ  Financial˚Review

 ˛˝˜  Controls˚and˚Procedures

 ˛˝˙  Financial˚Statements

 ˜˜˛  Report˚of˚Independent˚Registered˚
Public˚Accounting˚Firm
 ˜˜˘  Stock˚Performance
Wells Fargo & Company
(NYSE:WFC
)We™re a diversi˜ ed ˜ nancial services compan
ommunity-based and relationship-orient

serving people across the nation and around 

the˚world.
Our corporate headquarters is in San˚Francisco, but 
all our stores, regional commercial banking centers, 

ATMs, 
Wells˜Fargo PhoneBank
,SM and internet sites 
are headquarters for satisfying all our customers™ 

˜ nancial needs and helping them succeed ˜ nancially, 

through banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, 

and commercial and consumer ˜ nance.
Assets:
ˆ$1.3˚trillion, 4th among peers

Market value of stock:
ˆ$163˚billion, 
2nd among peers (12/31/10)
Customers:
ˆ70˚million, 
(one of every three U.S. households)
Team members:
ˆ281,000
Stores:
ˆ9,000© 2011 Wells Fargo & Company. All rights reserved.
Sophia B., student Junior Achievement
Jennie L., Wells Fargo banker
Glenn L., Wells Fargo customer
Lisa P., Wells Fargo banker
Robert M., Wells Fargo business relationship manager
Robert M., Wells Fargo business relationship manager
1  FDIC-insured deposits up to $500 million in a single banking store, excludes credit unions.
˜As the world continues to weather this global economic downturn, 
customers and communities need more from their ˜ nancial services 

providers. They need ˜ nancial solutions. They want help navigating 

storms of ˜ nancial uncertainty to calmer waters. Our customers, more 

than ever, need a safe, trustworthy, capable ˜ nancial services company 

that can help them buy a home. Pay for educating their children. Build 

a business. Save for retirement. Customers and communities want 

a friend who™s there to help them succeed ˜ nancially. This is about 

relationships. This is about being there with more than just outstanding 

service and useful products. We want our customers to be proud that 

they chose Wells˚Fargo and reward that friendship with even more 

of their business. This is the story of how our unmatched record of 

creating long-term relationships is helping unlock opportunities for 

our customers and the communities we serve. 
Standing together.
Phillip S., Wells Fargo customer
Jimmy M., Wells Fargo customer
Susan H., Wells Fargo market president
Susan H., Wells Fargo market president
David R., Wells Fargo team member
Kayla J., Wells Fargo customer
˚Gina B., Junior Achievement
Ty S., Wells Fargo customer
Millicent C., Wells Fargo team member 
Millicent C., Wells Fargo team member 
Ajay S., Wells Fargo team member
Michael D., Wells Fargo team member
Michael D., Wells Fargo team member
In 2010 we stood together with our customers. 
Seventy million of them. One of every three 
American households, in more communities than any other bank. 

One of every four U.S. home mortgage customers. Our customers 

worked harder than ever to earn a living or ˜ nd a job. They paid 

down debt. They tightened their budgets. They saved, invested, 

paid their bills, and applied for loans. Many started a business or 

expanded one. They supported their neighborhoods and communities. 

In˚all of this, we helped them succeed˚˜ nancially.
John G. Stumpf
Chairman, President and Chief Executive O˜  cer

Wells Fargo & Company
To our owners,
˛The recession may be o˜cially over, but it still casts a dark 
shadow, though perhaps not as long a one. Unemployment 

stayed stubbornly, and unacceptably, around 9˚percent, but 

the U.S. economy, ever so slowly, seemed to pick up steam. We 

helped generate that momentum. We provided $665˚billion in 

loans and lines of credit to households and businesses, down 

6.5˚percent from a year ago, but up in the fourth quarter to the 

highest quarterly level since we acquired Wachovia at year-

end 2008. Since the beginning of 2009, we helped more than 

3.5 million mortgage customers buy a home or re˛nance their 

mortgage at a lower rate, saving them hundreds of dollars a 

month on mortgage payments, money they can save, invest, 

or use to pay down other˚debt.
We had loan growth in the last half of the year in many 
portfolios, including asset-backed ˛nance, auto dealer services, 

capital ˛nance, private student lending, SBA, commercial 

banking, and commercial real estate.
Some of our loan growth came from customers who brought 
us their business from other banks not diversi˛ed enough by 

geography, loan portfolio, or product line, or banks that don™t 

o˝er the convenience or trusted brand that we do. When I ˛rst 

went to work in ˛nancial services in 1976, there were about 

14,000 banks in the United States. Today there are about 7,000, 

yet there™s more choice than ever before because banking is 

just a segment of the much broader, much larger ˛nancial 

services˚industry.
As a result of the value we created for our customers,  
we achieved our second consecutive year of record earnings, 

$12.36˚billion ($12.28˚billion in˚2009). That was despite the 

negative e˝ect before taxes of $810˚million of new federal 

regulations limiting overdraft fees. Our diluted earnings per 

common share were $2.21, up 26˚percent from a year˚ago.
1We earned $85.2˚billion in revenue, still the single most 
important measure of our customers™ willingness to entrust 

us with more of their business. This was down from $88.7 

billion last year. Pro˛t before taxes and providing for loan loss 

reserves˙Š˙the truest test of the earnings horsepower of the 

stagecoach˙Š˙was $34.8˚billion.
2 We earned after-tax pro˛t of 
$1.01 for every $100 in assets (97˚cents last˚year). We earned 

10.33˚cents for every shareholder dollar (9.88˚cents last˚year). 

Our stock price increased almost 15˚percent for the year as the 

marketplace signaled its con˛dence in our company and the 

economy (compared with +13˚percent for the S&P˚500).
Loan losses trending down
As the economy improved, so did the quality of our loan 

portfolio. The rate of our credit losses trended down. The loans 

we deemed uncollectable, called net charge-o˝s, declined for 

four consecutive quarters. Net loan charge-o˝s in fourth quarter 

2010 were $3.8˚billion, down 29 percent from their peak  

a year˚ago.

 As a result, we were able to release $2.0˚billion from our 

reserves. In 2011 we expect our credit quality will improve 

again and also expect our reserves to decline again unless 

there™s some signi˛cant, unexpected downturn in the economy. 
Our loan losses declined for four consecutive quarters, down 

or relatively ˆat in commercial loans, credit cards, and home 

equity. The loans we acquired two years ago through the 

Wachovia merger, which we wrote down at the acquisition by 

about 40˚cents on the dollar, have performed as we expected 

or better. Nonperforming loans (not˚accruing interest) rose 

moderately from a year ago, but declined sizably in the last 

quarter of the year. We expect nonperforming assets to stay 

high because the recession, as they say, still has a tail. We had 

$0.89 set aside for potential loan losses for every dollar of loans 

that were not accruing interest, compared with $1.03 last˚year.
Growing capital the right way: Earning it
Capital˙Š˙usually a mix of equity and debt˙Š˙is what a bank 

must hold in reserve to support its businesses. A bank uses 

capital to invest and grow consistently over time and to absorb 

any unexpected losses along the way. Coming into the credit 

crisis two years ago, for example, Wells˚Fargo was very well 

capitalized. This enabled us to acquire Wachovia and double  

the size of our˚company.

 The best way to grow capital is the old-fashioned way:  

earn it yourself internally rather than relying on unpredictable 

markets. We™ve grown our capital internally at a higher, more 

consistent rate than any of our large peers because we™ve 

earned more per dollar of assets than they did. How do we do 

it? Our foundation for this growth is not a ˛nancial equation, 

but, rather, our very clear, time-tested vision that we™ve made 

steady progress toward for almost a quarter century. 
We want 

to satisfy all our customers™ ˜nancial needs and help them 

succeed ˜nancially.
 Thanks to our vision and diversi˛ed 

business model, centered on what™s best for our customers and 

building lifelong relationships with them, our capital is stronger 

today than it™s ever been. Our Tier˚1 capital (the˚ratio of a bank™s 

core equity capital to its total risk-weighted assets) rose to 

11.2˚percent from 9.3˚percent a year ago. Our Tier˚1 common 

ratio (a˚measure of the best kind of capital) was 8.3˚percent of 

risk-weighted assets, up from 6.5˚percent a year ago. Our Tier˚1 

common capital ratio was 28˚percent higher than a year˚ago.
3 New international standards may require banks globally 

to hold top-quality capital eventually totaling seven percent 

of their risk-weighted assets (some˚banks have as little as two 

percent˚now). Those regulations aren™t ˛nal yet, but Š based 

on those new international standards Š we expect to be above 

the seven percent threshold under the proposed rules, as 

we currently understand them, sometime in 2011. By˚being 

above seven percent in 2011, we™ll be above the new standards 

well before they start going into e˝ect in 2013. They™re not 

scheduled to be fully in e˝ect until˚2018.

 To retain more capital and further strengthen our ability 

to earn more of our customers™ business, our Board reduced 

Wells˚Fargo™s quarterly common stock dividend from 34˚cents 

to ˛ve cents a share in March 2009. We want to increase our 

dividend as soon as is practical. To do so, we submitted in 

early 2011 a capital plan, as requested, to the Federal Reserve. 
1  ﬁDilutedﬂ includes stock option grants and securities that can be converted into stock; EPS for 
2009 reduced for dividends and deemed dividend when TARP preferred stock redeemed.
2  Total revenue minus non-interest expense; measures our ability to generate capital to cover 

credit losses through a credit cycle.
3  Please see Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements 

and the ﬁFinancial Review Œ Capital Managementﬂ section in this Report for more information.
Ty S., Wells Fargo customer
˝Our performance
inˇmillions˘ˇexceptˇperˇshareˇamounts
˙ˆˇˆ˙ˆˆ˘ange
FAR
WellsˇFargoˇnetˇincome

WellsˇFargoˇnetˇincomeˇapplicableˇtoˇcommonˇstock
Dilutedˇearningsˇperˇcommonˇshare
Pro˛tabilityˇr
WellsˇFargoˇnetˇincomeˇtoˇaverageˇtotalˇassetsˇ(ROA)
WellsˇFargoˇnetˇincomeˇapplicableˇtoˇcommonˇstockˇtoˇaverageˇ
WellsˇFargoˇcommonˇstockholders™ˇequityˇ(ROE)
E˜ciencyˇratioˇ
Totalˇrevenue

Prxˇprovisionˇpro˛tˇ
Dividendsˇdeclaredˇperˇcommonˇshare
Averageˇcommonˇsharesˇoutstanding
Dilutedˇaverageˇcommonˇsharesˇoutstanding
Averageˇloans

Averageˇassets
ˇ
Averageˇcoreˇdepositsˇ
Averageˇretailˇcoreˇdepositsˇ
Netˇinterestˇmargin
ŠA
Securitiesˇavailableˇforˇsale

ŠLoans
Allowanceˇforˇloanˇlosses
GoodwillŠAssets
ˇ
Coreˇdepositsˇ
WellsˇFargoˇstockholders™ˇequity
Totalˇequity
Tapitalˇ
Totalˇcapitalˇ
Capitalˇr
Totalˇequityˇtoˇassets
Risasedˇcapita
Tapital
Totalˇcapital
Tverageˇ
Tommonˇequityˇ
Bookˇvalueˇperˇcommonˇshare

Teamˇmembersˇ(activeˇequivalent)
1  The e˜ciency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income).
2  Pre-tax pre-provision pro˚t (PTPP) is total revenue less noninterest expense. Management believes that PTPP is a useful ˚nancial measure because it enables investors and others to 
assess the Company™s ability to generate capital to cover credit losses through a credit cycle.
3  Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certi˚cates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances).
4  Retail core deposits are total core deposits excluding Wholesale Banking core deposits and retail mortgage escrow deposits.
5  See Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.
6  See the ﬁFinancial Review Œ Capital Managementﬂ section in this Report for additional information.
We await its assessment of that plan. We know the value of 
dividends to you, our shareholders. We thank you for your 

loyalty and your˚patience.
Our capital position is among the strongest of any large bank 
in the world, but capital isn™t meant to be hoarded, it™s meant to be 

used. Strongly capitalized banks such as Wells˚Fargo should be 

allowed to put more of their capital to work for economic growth, 

lending to creditworthy customers, investing in communities, and 

returning more capital to their shareholders so they can invest it. 

At the same time, our #1 ˛nancial goal remains unchanged: Have 

a conservative ˛nancial structure as measured by asset quality, 

capital levels, diversity of revenue sources, and dispersing risk 
 by geography, loan size, and˚industry.
How™s the merger going? So far, so great
Two years ago˙Š˙to o˝er more value and convenience to our 

current customers and to our new customers˙Š˙we began the 

largest, most complex banking merger in U.S. history. We™re 

now in the ˛nal innings of integrating Wachovia. We™re creating 

single computer systems for our combined businesses that 

serve all 70˚million of our customers, so their hometown bank 

is always right around the corner and we can serve them across 

the country and around the world when, where, and how they 

want to be˚served.
The past two years, we™ve completed almost a hundred 
conversions to the One Wells˚Fargo brand. Amazing! One ATM 

system. One credit card system. One mortgage system. One 

mutual funds system. One brokerage system. One retirement 

services system. One system for trust services. We™re now 

creating one operating system for retail banking, the nation™s 

most extensive ˛nancial services network. We™ve already 

integrated our Community Banking operations in Alabama, 

Arizona, California, Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, 

Kansas, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey,  

Tennessee, and Texas.
So far, each of our conversions has gone extremely well. 
That might look like a miracle to some observers, but not to us. 

Our success so far simply has been the result of an immense 

amount of planning, hard work, focus, skill, and sacri˛ce by tens 

of thousands of our dedicated team members who are visible 

or invisible to our customers. We can™t thank them and their 

families˚enough.
We™re determined to ˛nish the job with the same focus 
that has served us so well the last two years. We still need to 

bring 70˚percent of Wachovia banking customers fully into the 

Wells˚Fargo retail banking system in 2011. We™ll do that when 

we combine operating systems under the Wells˚Fargo brand 

for our banking stores in New˚York and Connecticut (March), 

Pennsylvania (April), and Florida, Maryland, North Carolina, 

South Carolina, Virginia, and Washington D.C. later in˚the˚year.
In just the past two years, by every measure, this merger has 
delivered signi˛cant bene˛t for all our stakeholders, more than 

even we ˛rst expected. One plus one, indeed, can equal three. 

We originally estimated the integration would cost $7.9˚billion. 

Our latest estimate: about $6˚billion. We originally thought we™d 

save $5 billion in expenses after the integration and that™s still 

true. To date, we™ve used only about half our initial write-down 
through purchase accounting of Wachovia™s loan portfolios. 

Those portfolios have performed better than we expected at the 

time of our merger. 

 For our team members, the merger has doubled their career 

opportunities across a company twice our former size, the 

nation™s 12th-largest private employer with more U.S.-based 

team members than any other ˛nancial services company. For 

our customers, it means more products, more convenience, 

more opportunities for sound ˛nancial advice and price-

value. For our communities, it means more capital: ˛nancial, 

human, and social, and the presence of a strong, stable, and 

growing ˛nancial services provider, employer, and taxpayer 

(7th-largest U.S. taxpayer in 2010 among all industries). For 

our shareholders, it means an even more attractive, long-term 

investment.

 The merger enables us to earn even more of our customers™ 

business. In California, where we™re now the state™s most 

extensive community bank, we grew checking accounts in 2010 

by a net 8.2˚percent. In Florida, yet to convert to our brand, 

checking accounts rose a net 10˚percent, despite the state™s 

struggling economy and slower population growth. That™s 

virtually all new business, customers who either left other banks 

and came to us, or chose to open their ˛rst checking account 

with˚us.
 When Wells˚Fargo and Wachovia merged two years ago, 

customers of the combined new bank had $745.4˚billion of core 

deposits with us. At year-end 2010, despite the recent recession, 

our core deposits were $798.2˚billion, up seven percent. Our 

two million Wachovia credit card customers (consumer and 

business) have converted to Wells˚Fargo. They can view and 

print up to 24 months of online statements, choose to end paper 

delivery, bene˛t from free online money management tools, and 

be protected against liability for fraud that™s promptly˚reported.

 Many huge revenue opportunities of the merger remain 

to be seized. For example, there are about three million 

Wells˚Fargo mortgage customers in the 15 states plus the 

District of Columbia who became our customers through our 

merger with Wachovia. Only about 29˚percent of them bank 

with us. Only about one of every ˛ve of our banking households 

nationwide with a mortgage, have a Wells Fargo mortgage.

Huge˚opportunity!
Community Banking: Cross-sell milestone
If anyone tells you it™s easy to earn more business from current 

customers in ˛nancial services, don™t believe them. We should 

know. We™ve been at it almost a quarter century. We™ve been 

called, true or not, the ﬁking of cross-sell.ﬂ To succeed at it, 

you have to do a thousand things right. It requires long-term 

persistence, signi˛cant investment in systems and training,  

proper team member incentives and recognition, taking the 

time to understand your customers™ ˛nancial objectives, then 

o˝ering them products and solutions to satisfy their needs so 

they can succeed ˛nancially. You can™t expect much progress 

in earning more business from current customers in just one 

quarter or even in a year or two. That™s why many banks give up 

on it. The bad news is it™s hard to do. The good news is it™s hard 

to do, because once you build it, it™s a competitive advantage 

that can™t be copied. If it were easy, everyone would be doing˚it.
˜Thirteen years ago, when I was head of Community 
Banking for Norwest Bank in Texas (before Norwest acquired 
Wells˜Fargo), our company set an ambitious goal to have our 

average banking household have eight products with us. Many 

analysts, focused only on the next quarter, yawned. That year, 

we averaged nearly four products per retail banking household. 

The next year, at the merger of Norwest and Wells˜Fargo, it 

was 3.2. 1999: 3.4. 2000: 3.7. 2001: 3.8. 2002: 4.2. 2003: 4.3. 2004: 

4.6. 2005: 4.8. 2006: 5.2. 2007: 5.5. 2008: 5.7. 2009: our legacy 

Wells˜Fargo households, just under˜6.0.
This year, we crossed a major cross-sell threshold. Our 
banking households in the western U.S. now have an average 

of 6.14˜products with us. For our retail households in the east, 

it™s 5.11˜products and growing. Across all 39 of our Community 

Banking states and the District of Columbia, we now average 

5.70˜products per banking household (5.47˜a year˜ago). One of 

every four of our banking households already has eight or more 

products with us. Four of every ten have six or more. Even when 

we get to eight, we™re only halfway home. The average banking 

household has about 16. I™m often asked why we set a cross-sell 

goal of eight. The answer is, it rhymed with ﬁgreat.ﬂ Perhaps our 

new cheer should be: ﬁLet™s˜go again, for˜ten!ﬂ
More sales don™t always bring better service, but better 
service almost always brings more sales. That™s why our service 

quality scores are an early indicator of our sales trends. Our 

service scores are rising. Almost eight of every ten of our 

Regional Banking customers said they™re ﬁextremely satis˚edﬂ 

with their recent call or visit with our banking stores or contact 

centers. For the second year in a row, we ranked #1 among large 

banks, according to the American Customer Satisfaction Index, 

an independent measure of how satis˚ed U.S. customers are  

with the quality of consumer goods and˜services.
We grew market share in several other Community  
Banking businesses. Consumer checking accounts rose  

a net 7.5˜percent. Average checking and savings deposits  

across the company were up 10 percent. We have more than 

two-and-a-half million business customer relationships. 
 Business checking accounts rose a net 4.8 percent last year, 
 while store-based business solutions increased 22˜percent in 

the West. Sales of 
Wells˜Fargo Business Services®
 Packages 

(business checking account and at least three other business 

products) rose 42˜percent, purchased by two of every three 
 new business checking account customers in the West.  

Our average Business Banking customer in the West now  

has 4.04˜products with us (3.76˜a year˜ago). We extended  

$14.9 billion of new lending (to existing or new borrowers,  

and increases to lines of credit) to small businesses in 2010,  

up 2.9 percent from last year.

 We continue to be the nation™s #1 small business and SBA 

lender. Our Auto Dealer Services team grew its share of the 

used-vehicle lending market from 4.3˜percent in the ˚rst quarter  

of 2009 to 5.4˜percent at year-end 2010, retaining its #1 national 

ranking, and solidifying relationships with 11,000 dealers.  

In the West, eight of every ten new customers who opened 

a checking account also purchased Wells˜Fargo 
Packages®
 
(a˜checking account and at least three other products) Š with 

sales rising 21˜percent. We ended the year with 18.3˜million 

active online banking customers, up 10.3˜percent from a year 
earlier, and 4.7˜million active mobile customers, up 88˜percent 

from a year earlier. 
Global Finance
 ranked us the best  

online bank in North America for consumers, corporate,  

and institutional˜customers.

 New regulations prohibit banks from automatically covering 

ATM withdrawals and everyday debit card transactions that 

customers make from accounts short of funds. They now must 

choose if they want those transactions denied at the counter 

or if they want us to cover those shortages. We want them to 

make smart ˚nancial choices, use our free online tools, and 

have a personal ˚nancial plan. We eliminated overdraft fees 

for consumer and most business deposit customers when they 

overdraw their account by $5 or˜less.

 Our student lending in the private market rose 43 percent 

in our Wachovia community banking states and our national 

market share rose to 25 percent (16 percent a year ago). A new 

law regrettably removed private-sector lenders from the federal 

student market, but there™s still an important role for private 

lenders. We™re very much in the student loan business, as we™ve 

been for 42˜years. College costs continue to rise. Government-

guaranteed loans provide only about $7,500 or less for college 

costs. Students, families, and schools still need our help to be 

˚nancially successful, especially Wachovia customers, because 

their company had exited the student loan business right before 

it merged with Wells˜Fargo.
Home Mortgage: Helping keep customers in their homes
We originated $386 billion in mortgages this year, providing  

one of every four home loans making us, again, the nation™s 

largest home mortgage lender. We provided 1.8 million 

mortgages, at historically low rates, for customers  

to buy a home or re˚nance their mortgage. Applications  

for mortgages in the pipeline at year-end were $73 billion,  

up 28 percent from a year ago. We serviced $1.8 trillion  

in mortgages, one of every six U.S. mortgage households,  

the nation™s second-largest servicing portfolio.

 Americans are resilient. They proved it again this year. 

Ninety-two percent of our customers made their home 

payments on time. Delinquency rates declined. The percent 

of our mortgage customers late on their payments or in the 

foreclosure process was about a fourth less than the industry 

average. Only three of every 100 of our home equity customers 

were two or more payments past due.

 We avoided foreclosure for about three-fourths of those 

customers 60 days or more past due who chose to work with 

us. In 2009 and 2010, we adjusted loan terms, lowered rates or 

reduced principal (or a combination of the three) for 620,000 

loans to help customers stay in their homes. For 73,000 loans, 
ﬁThe percent of our mortgage 
customers late on their payments or 
in the foreclosure process was about a 
fourth less than the industry average.ﬂ
˜identi˜ed more opportunities to serve them, and this bene˜ts 
communities and our shareholders. In 2010, we facilitated 

hundreds of transactions to support municipalities, hospitals 

and universities, including a $300 million credit facility for 

the Los Angeles Department of Water & Power, part of a 

comprehensive, long-term relationship with the city. 
Helping American business grow
We serve thousands of companies across America that have 

annual revenue from $10 million to $750 million. Bankers may 

call this the ﬁmiddle market,ﬂ but it™s really The Big Middle. 

Companies such as this are at the forefront of the U.S. economic 

recovery. They employ tens of millions of Americans. They 

make things people use every day. They™re the lifeblood of 

the tax base in our communities. Their shop ˚oors are where 

America gets things done, makes things better and makes 

better things. As CEO of Wells Fargo, I™m privileged to visit 

the plants and o˛ces of many of our commercial customers 

every year across the country. They appreciate our relationship 

approach, consistent underwriting through the business 

cycle, local decision-making, and the depth and breadth of our 

products, which we believe are the best in our industry. 
 The CEOs and CFOs of many of our commercial customers, 
and many of our large corporate customers, are telling us 

they see the economy improving. Many are adding inventory, 

expanding operations, using lines of credit and qualifying 

for new credit. One example is Aetna Plywood, a wholesale 

distributor of wood and composite products based in Maywood, 

Illinois. It™s been a loyal customer of Wells Fargo for several 

years. Its sales declined during the recession, but its owner 

and president, Larry Rassin, says sales picked up in 2010 as its 

clients began making delayed improvements in their stores. 

ﬁIt™s a slow progression of continued growth,ﬂ he says, ﬁand we 

believe it will continue.ﬂ
 We want to be the commercial bank of choice for companies 
like Aetna Plywood in every one of our markets. We want to 

have more lead relationships than any competitor in every 

market we serve. We want to satisfy every ˜nancial need of 

commercial customers, large and small. We made signi˜cant 

progress toward these ambitious goals in 2010. We™re already  

#1 in market share for middle-market companies. Our 

Commercial Banking team attracted more new customers in 

2010 than in any single year in our company™s history.
 Our average Commercial Banking relationship in the West 
(legacy Wells Fargo) had eight products with us in 2010. In the 

East, where the Wachovia conversion is in the home stretch, 

customer relationships are strong and we™re earning more  

of their business. 
 Average core deposits for Wholesale Banking customers 
rose 15 percent. Loan balances grew in asset-backed ˜nance 

and global ˜nancial institutions. New loan commitments rose 

in commercial real estate. Our commercial customers have 

scanned, sent and deposited from their o˛ces more than  

$1 trillion of checks with us the last three years securely via the 

internet through our 
Desktop Deposit
 service. This saved them, 

and our environment, 1.64 million miles driving back and forth 

to the bank, and 91,000 gallons of gas. 
we forgave $3.8 billion in principal (by far, the industry leader 

in this measure). That was an average reduction of $51,000 per 

loan. To do this work, we hired 10,000 home preservation sta˝ 

for a total of 16,000. We assign one specialist to work with  

a customer from start-to-˜nish on a modi˜cation. 

 In 2010 however, we didn™t always measure up. For example, 

when we became aware we hadn™t managed some aspects of 

the foreclosure a˛davit process well, our ˜rst concern was 

to con˜rm that no customer experienced an unwarranted 

foreclosure because of an incorrect a˛davit. We then reviewed 

certain pending foreclosure a˛davits, and enhanced our 

policies and processes to help ensure full consistency and 

compliance. 

 We plan to double in 2011 the number of home preservation 

events we hosted last year. Through 19 large-scale events since 

the beginning of 2009, we™ve worked face-to-face with 19,000 

customers struggling to make their mortgage payments. We 

met with 31,000 more customers at our 27 home preservation 

centers across the country. 

 Our commitment to our customers and our country in 

managing home loan challenges has been unwavering, and it 

will continue in 2011.
Wholesale Banking: Ripe with opportunity
Our Wholesale bankers were careful planners and stewards  

of their businesses during the economic downturn. As a  

result, they™re now earning even more of our customers™ 

business as the economy revives. For example, they managed 

Microsoft™s $4.7 billion senior notes o˝ering. They™re providing 

$750 million to ˜nance LEED® certi˜ed commercial buildings 

and community development projects. They™re providing 

insurance to help reduce customers™ business risks. They™re 

satisfying the global ˜nancial needs of more of our clients 

through our international group™s 36 o˛ces in 34 countries. 
Investment Banking
Helping our corporate and middle market clients raise capital 

to grow their businesses is an art and a science. You have to 

focus on what™s best for the customer. You have to provide 

extensive research and deep, thoughtful knowledge about the 

client™s industry. You have to have a very experienced team that 

can provide superior execution. All this has to be supported by 

a strong capital position. Because of our strength in all these 

areas many large companies are now entrusting billions of 

dollars of bond and equity ˜nancing with Wells Fargo, including 

MetLife, HSBC, Walmart, Hewlett Packard and Hertz. Many 

other companies turned to Wells Fargo Securities in 2010 

for their mergers and acquisitions, including Penske, Capital 

Source, Snyder™s of Hanover, Lance, Inergy, and Atlas Pipeline. 
Supporting municipalities, healthcare and education
Many banks are averse to doing business with governments, 

education, healthcare and non-pro˜ts because of what they 

perceive as high risk and low returns. We™re proud to serve 

these sectors. We provide a wide range of ˜nancial solutions 

for our 4,400 government, education, healthcare and non-

pro˜t clients. Our loans to these institutions rose 40 percent 

for the year. Their deposits with us rose 35 percent. We also 
Financial planning and investing: One visit doesn™t do it all
As we stand together with our customers, helping them  

manage their investments and plan their ˛nancial future,  

we™re reminded every day that this isn™t a one-time event any 

more than one visit to a doctor™s o˜ce ensures good health.  

Our relationships with Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement 

customers are built on providing thoughtful, objective, and 

frequent advice˙Š˙understanding each customer™s individual 

goals, risk tolerance, and needs, monitoring progress, and 

helping them make changes when it™s right for them to do˚so.
When our customers achieve ˛nancial success˙Š˙however 
they de˛ne it˙Š˙then we™ll achieve our goal: becoming the nation™s 

most respected provider of wealth, brokerage, and retirement 

services. The opportunity to earn more business from our own 

customers is enormous. Only nine of every 100 of our banking 

households have brokerage relationships with us. Only six of 

every 100 have their IRA with us. We want all our investment 

customers to bank with us. We want all our banking customers 

to think of us ˛rst for all their investment needs. Our average 

banking household that has a Wealth, Brokerage or Retirement 

relationship with us has an average of 9.80˚products with us 

(up˚from 9.67 in ˛rst quarter˚2010).
Wealth
 Our team-based approach gives our customers access 
to experts with deep knowledge and extensive experience in 

many disciplines. We manage, administer, or have custody of 

$198˚billion in assets, including $48˚billion in deposits, for our 

high-net-worth clients. Client deposits rose a strong 13˚percent, 

a key measure of our ability to earn more of their business. 

Investment management and trust revenue was up 11˚percent 

from 2009 on strong investment results and continued growth 

in the trust services provided to˚clients.
Brokerage
 We believe every customer should have a ˛nancial 
plan. Wells˚Fargo Advisors, the nation™s third-largest retail 

brokerage network with 15,200 full-service ˛nancial advisors 

and 4,400 licensed bankers, is helping make that goal a reality. 

Today, more than two-thirds of ouent customers have a 

˛nancial plan. This year, we grew customer assets 6˚percent 

to $1.2˚trillion. Managed-account assets, now at $235˚billion, 

rose $38˚billion, or 20˚percent. The number of loans originated 

through Wells˚Fargo Advisors ˛nancial advisors rose 71˚percent, 

totaling $7.2˚billion.
Retirement
 Our 2010 Retirement Survey showed that working 
in retirement is becoming the norm for middle-class Americans, 

the latest evidence that retirement is changing drastically 

and that people need help more than ever. We work with 

customers as they plan and prepare for their retirement, and 

we also administer 401(k), pension, and other retirement plans 

for companies. Customer assets in retirement plans that we 

administer rose 6˚percent, or $14˚billion, to $231˚billion for the 

year. Our national market share rose to 3.7˚percent (3.1˚percent 

a year˚ago). We strengthened our rank as one of the nation™s 

top-˛ve IRA providers, growing IRA assets 10˚percent,  

or $24˚billion, to $266˚billion.
Now the hard part: Making rules that work for America

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 

Act may change the landscape of ˛nancial services more than 

any other law in my three-decade career in the industry. It™s 

2,319 pages. (The˚Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was 66 pages. 

Those were the good old˚days!) Its 240 rules will a˝ect checking 

accounts, debit cards, credit cards, home loans, and brokerage 

accounts. We support any protection for customers nationally 

to ensure all ˛nancial services providers, not just banks, are 

held to the same high standard of responsibility that we™ve tried 

to hold ourselves to for almost 160˚years. Our customers expect 

nothing less. We™re working with legislators and regulators  

to help make sure this˚happens.

 Dodd-Frank and other new regulations, however, would 

reduce the prices banks can charge for some products. One 

example: a reduction of 80˚percent or more, scheduled to take 

e˝ect in July 2011, in the fee banks charge retailers when 

customers use their debit cards at the cash register. Government 

price controls such as this make no sense. They distort our 

market-based, free-enterprise economy. What™s next? Will the 

government require car dealers to sell a new vehicle for $5,000 

or grocers a gallon of milk for 50˚cents? Banks should be fairly 

compensated for the value that debit cards create for merchants 

and their customers by reducing fraud risk and the cost of 

carrying cash or handling checks. An 80˚percent cut in this  

fee wouldn™t even enable us to cover the cost of providing  

the service. 
The key to growing our economy
There are three priorities for our economy. The ˛rst is creating 

good jobs. The second is creating good jobs. The third is 

creating good jobs. Negative home equity, depressed housing 

prices, and mortgage foreclosures are not the cause of our 

sluggish economy. They™re the result of homeowners losing their 

jobs. I started as a loan collector in banking 34˚years ago. Back 

then, when a borrower wasn™t making payments, it usually was 

because of divorce, a death in the family, medical emergency 

or, most often, unemployment. It™s the same today. Americans 

want to pay their bills and will if they have the resources to do 

so. The U.S. economy did add a million jobs last year, but that™s 

cold comfort to the almost one in every 11 Americans looking 

for work. We™re telling all our creditworthy business customers 

as often as we can: More credit is available. Many of our 

small business and commercial customers have the cash and 

resources to rehire and expand, but there™s hesitation because 

of the legislative and regulatory landscape, customer spending 

habits, and government debt. This can paralyze and confuse 

business owners, entrepreneurs, investors, and consumers. 

Government and private enterprise need to stand together to 

alleviate this uncertainty by promoting ˛scal discipline and 

economic opportunity.

 Wells˚Fargo is hiring. At year-end 2010, we had 6,500 

un˛lled jobs in our company. We want to create a welcoming 

home for talent, a place where team members can build a 

varied, challenging, satisfying career that can last a lifetime. 

We˚consider team members an asset to invest in, not an 

expense to be managed. We invested 3˚percent of our total 

payroll dollars for the year in team member training, an 
average of 36˚hours for every team member. We™ve added 
3,000˚bankers in our stores the past two years and opened 

47 banking stores during the last year, many in Wachovia 

Community Banking states.
Regardless of the economic cycle, any successful business 
must reduce cost and complexity without impairing customer 

service. This means that in a company our size, jobs are being 

created, changed, or eliminated every day. In 2010, we closed 

our network of 638 Wells˚Fargo Financial stores because we now 

can serve those consumer and commercial ˛nance customers 

through our national network, expanded through the Wachovia 

merger, of 6,314 Community Banking stores, and through 

other Wells˚Fargo businesses. In addition to our banking 

stores, we also have a mortgage presence in 2,200 locations 

including standalone mortgage stores and other business-

partner sites. Because ﬁpeople as a competitive advantageﬂ is 

one of our primary values, we identi˛ed positions elsewhere 

in our company for thousands of team members a˝ected by 

this di˜cult decision. We also moved other businesses and 

functions that were part of Wells˚Fargo Financial to other parts 

of our company. We™re proud that by year-end, three of every 

four a˝ected team members, or 11,200, had moved into other 

positions or departments with our company. 
That is standing 

together with team˚members.
In appreciation

In April 2011, Dick McCormick retires 

from our Board after 28˚years of service to 

our company. We believe this makes him 

the longest-serving Board member in our 

company™s history. Dick joined the Board  
of our predecessor company, Norwest Corporation, in 1983 

when we were an Upper Midwest bank with $20˚billion in assets, 

more than 900 stores, and 17,700 team members (including me, 

a 29
-year
-old loan administrator who had joined the company 
a year earlier). Dick brought to our Board not just decades 

of senior leadership in the telecommunications industry, but 

year after year, we bene˛ted from his thorough, pragmatic 

knowledge of our industry, markets, and businesses, his 

institutional memory, and his ability to ask the tough questions 

in a respectful and courteous way, with integrity, humility, and 

kindness. He embodies for us the best of corporate governance. 

We thank Dick and his wife, Mary Pat, for all they™ve done for 

our company, and wish them and their family all the˚best.

 We thank all our team members for standing together with 

our customers, taking the time to understand and satisfy their 

˛nancial needs, helping them create a ˛nancial plan, serving 

them when, where, and how they want to be served. We thank 

them for their outstanding execution to date of the Wells˚Fargo-

Wachovia merger as we embark on the third and ˛nal year 

of the integration. Recognizing their outstanding e˝ort, our 

Board approved in January 2011 a pro˛t-sharing contribution 

of 2˚percent of pay for all eligible team members on our U.S. 

payroll into their 401(k) plans. We thank our customers for 

entrusting us with even more of their business and returning 

to us for their next ˛nancial services product. Beginning on 

the next page, we tell you the stories of how we stand together 
with our customers and our communities. And we thank you, 

our owners, for your con˛dence in Wells˚Fargo as we begin our 

160th˚year.
We™re more optimistic than ever about the future of our 
company, our communities, and our country. Every decision  

we make is guided by our vision˙Š˙
to satisfy all our customers™ 

˜nancial needs and help them succeed ˜nancially˙Š˙and  

by our values: people, ethics, ﬁwhat™s right for our customers,ﬂ 

diversity, and leadership. They remain our compass, our road 

map, our gyroscope. That™s the way our ancestors who raised 

their families, the pioneers who built our communities, the team 

members who built our company, were guided. They didn™t need 

GPS, smart phones, and electronic tablets to ˛nd their way. 

Their values guided them. We do this by choice, not chance.  

We don™t wake up every morning having to ask ourselves which 

way we™re going. We just stand with our customers, try to do 

what™s right for them, and keep riding the stagecoach in the 

same direction it™s been headed since˚1852.
When we stand together, we can thrive together.
John G. Stumpf 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive O˜cer
Standing together.
Standing together is a lot more than just ﬁbeing˚there.ﬂ 
It™s about actively working with our customers and 

communities in ways that few other ˜ nancial services 

companies can. Need to ˜ nance a factory expansion 

in Canada? We can do that. Need to ˜ gure out options 

to keep your family in your home? We™re there for you. 

Need a company that listens to and follows through on 

your ideas? That™s us. Our customers are our friends 

and we advocate for their best ˜ nancial interests. We 

strive to build lifelong customer relationships that meet 

customers™ needs through all stages of their lives. Here 

are a few stories about how Wells˚Fargo™s 281,000 team 

members stand together with our˚customers.
Phillip˚Schuman (right) and investment manager Adam˚Schwalb˚in Lighthouse Point, Florida. Story on page 21.
˜˜˜˚˜˛Canada connection
Custom Molders Group had a challenge. The 
New˚Jersey-based company supplies millions 

of plastic packaging components for major candy 

makers. Four years ago, the business opened 

a˚plant in Canada, but its bank of 30˚years˙Š˙

Wachovia˙Š˙didn™t o˝ er cross-border ˛ nancing, so 

the business had to turn to a new lending partner. 

Then the merger with Wells˚Fargo happened 

and a new option opened. 
oh
˚(center), 

CMG™s chief ˛ nancial o˜  cer, worked 

with his business relationship manager at 

Wells˚Fargo, 
Raroney
˚(right), as well 

as 
Michaoghue
˚(left) to tap a unique 

Wells˚Fargo equipment ˛ nancing unit based 

in Canada represented by Karl˚Libonati. That 

meant Loh™s Custom Molders Group could keep 

its ˛ nances as simple as possible and with its 

longtime trusted ˛ nancial provider. ﬁWe™re 

a˚relationship-based business, and now we™re 

standing by CMG in a new way as it continues 

to˚grow,ﬂ said Maroney.
ﬁWe™re a 
relationship-based 
business, and now 
we™re standing by 
CMG in a new way 
as it continues 
to˚grow.ﬂ
˜˝63 years of service
Brucolt
™s bank has stood by him since 1948. That™s when he opened his ˛ rst account with Birmingham (Alabama) 
Trust after his discharge from the Army. While the names on his bank changed over the years˙Š˙including from 

Wachovia to Wells˚Fargo in 2010˙Š˙he puts a premium on one factor: Does the bank help him when he needs it the most? 

ﬁI™ve loved Wells˚Fargo,ﬂ said Holt, a retired railroad engineer who turns 90 this year. ﬁI tell my family, my friends: 

‚Go to Wells˚Fargo; they™re so friendly and know how to treat you right.™˙ﬂ 
Jennie Lee
 is Holt™s banker at Holt™s neighborhood 

banking store in Gardendale, just north of Birmingham. ﬁMr.˚Holt usually comes in a couple times a week to talk with 

us, to make a deposit, and just share stories. He™s a huge fan of Wells˚Fargo and we™re all huge fans of Mr.˚Holt.ﬂ
Protecting customers
Kimberly Hill
 helps weddings be as beautiful as they can be. How? She™s a trainer with Wells˚Fargo™s 
Liability and Fraud Claims department, the team that stands behind customers when they call with a 

problem they have with a purchase made on their 
Wells˛Fargo
® Debit˚Card. ﬁWilted ˆ owers for a wedding, 

the wrong refrigerator delivered, heading o˝  fraud, we stand by our customers when they need us most,ﬂ 

said Hill, based in Charlotte, North Carolina. ﬁEarlier this year, we called a customer on vacation in Europe 

after we saw an unusual $3,000 purchase cross our computers. Sure enough, it was fraud, and the customer 

was so grateful we prevented it.ﬂ Hill has trained hundreds of team members on how to make sure 

customers are cared for and protected when transactions need help.
Coast-to-coast service
When 
Juliet Zhu
 says, ﬁ˙
?ﬂ her 
customers know exactly what she™s talking about. 
Zhu, based in El Monte, California, is a phone 

banker with the Chinese Language Sales team, 

serving customers across the nation and around 

the world. In˚December, the seven-year company 

veteran started a call with her usual greeting 

(ﬁHow can I help you today?ﬂ), and discovered a 

customer-to-be in Norcross, Georgia, who needed 

fast help. ﬁHe didn™t speak English and needed 

to open an account so he could send money to his 

family in China,ﬂ Zhu said. She started the process, 

then˙Š˙because the request was so urgent˙Š˙

asked him to go to a Wells˚Fargo banking store 

in Norcross to complete the account opening. 

He said he didn™t know how to talk to a banker, 

but ﬁI˚explained what to say, and he wrote it down 

and the local banker did the rest. We earned a 

new customer because we spoke his language, 

had the right products and could meet his urgent 

request˚fast.ﬂ The customer opened several 

accounts and is sending money to China through 

the 
ExpressSend
® service, Wells˚Fargo™s way for 
customers to send money to remittance network 

members in other˚countries.
ﬁWe earned a new 
customer because 
we spoke his 
language, had the 
right products and 
could meet his 
urgent request.ﬂ
Helping homeowners
Edward Ramirez
 stands together with communities across the nation to help keep people in their homes. 
He™s˚one of hundreds of team members who traveled coast-to-coast to meet, in person, with troubled mortgage 

customers at 13 Home Preservation Workshops in 2010. At the workshops, customers met with home-preservation 

specialists such as Ramirez in private settings to discuss their options. There were dozens of bilingual team 

members on hand, too. ﬁEach of us met with hundreds of customers, each person on the verge of losing a home,ﬂ 

said Ramirez, who™s based in San Antonio, Texas, and volunteered at a dozen workshops. ﬁWe worked to come 

up with solutions on the spot and what a great feeling it was when we could help.ﬂ More than 20 workshops are 

planned for 2011. ﬁThese workshops show that Wells˚Fargo is a caring, responsible member of our community,ﬂ 

said Bill˚Sanchez, a˚counselor for the Tampa˚Bay Community Development Corporation, which partnered 

with Wells˚Fargo at the Tampa workshop in 2010.
Listening
Bryan Wilson
 had a question: Could his software development business˙ Š˙Wind River of Alameda, California˙ Š˙use 
credit cards in a new way to better manage outgoing payments? Rather than spark and fade, however, he brought his 

question to Wells˚Fargo. Wilson was one of dozens of customers who took part in 22 Advisory Council forums that 

Wells˚Fargo hosted in 2010. The councils are day-long conferences for business customers to talk shop with other 

˛ nance pros and help Wells˚Fargo improve products, sales, and service. ﬁWe™re here to listen and better understand how 

we can help our business customers succeed ˛ nancially,ﬂ said Wells˚Fargo™s 
Millicent Calinog
, chair of the Advisory 

Councils. ﬁThe forums have helped us and our customers tremendously while building deeper˚relationships.ﬂ
˚˜A team on your side
Phillichuman
˚(right) breathes easier these days. A year ago, Schuman was made guardian and trustee for 
his father, whose health had worsened. That meant running a bunch of businesses and assets that were new 

to him. Enter 
AdSchwalb
˚(left) with Wells˚Fargo Advisors, who had been Schuman™s investment manager 
since 2008. Schwalb, based in Lighthouse Point, Florida, connected Schuman to a team of Wells˚Fargo 

experts˙Š˙among them Je˝  Haines and Tad Galin˙Š˙and together they developed a plan for managing all 

the new responsibilities. ﬁIt˚was all enormously complicated, and the day we all agreed on a plan, you could 

see Phillip™s shoulders visibly relax as the burdens lifted,ﬂ Schwalb said. ﬁHe˚was managing so much on 

behalf of his father and his family. By bringing in our experts and taking a team approach, we o˝ ered him 

tremendous security and peace of mind.ﬂ
˚˚Standing together 
in Laegas
Relationships are everything to Las˚Vegas 
restaurateur 
JimmMaddin
. A Wachovia customer 
since 2007, he™s not only kept his personal and 

business accounts with Wells˚Fargo through 

the merger, he™s now turning to Wells˚Fargo for 

help launching a new business venture˙Š˙Hotel 

California Restaurant & Cantina˙Š˙that could 

employ 100 local people. ﬁWhat™s important to me 

is working with a bank that™s there for the good 

times and the bad times,ﬂ said Maddin. ﬁEveryone 

loves you when things are good. A friend is always 

there, period. That™s especially true when you™re 

trying to grow a business in a region like ours 

where the economy has been pretty rough.ﬂ That™s 

where banker 
Lisatton
 comes in. She helps 

Maddin manage business-service accounts by 

connecting him with other Wells˚Fargo partners 

while taking care of his personal ˛ nancial needs, 

too. ﬁWe want to make it easy for all our customers 

to bring us more of their business,ﬂ Patton said. 

ﬁWe build relationships that last a lifetime, starting 

with doing what™s best for our customers.ﬂ
ﬁWe build 
relationships that 
last a lifetime, 
starting with doing 
what™s best for our 
customers.ﬂ
˚˛˚˝Standing together with our communities.
What is a partner? Someone who works by your side, cares about 
your future, and has your best interests at heart. Wells˚Fargo 

believes in partnerships not only in the way we do business, but in 

the way we participate in community life. And never before in our 

company™s history has our support for communities been so vital. 

Our team members volunteer tens of thousands of hours each year, 

sharing their time and talents to help nonpro˜ ts. We also provide 

millions of dollars to support the good work of organizations large 

and small. It™s all because our success depends on the success 

of the people we serve. Here are a few stories of how we stand 

together with communities across the nation.
Wells˚Fargo volunteers in Augusta, Georgia 
(from left): Joe Mitchell, Adile Williams, 

Evita Butler, Susan Hunnicutt, Ajay Singh. 

Story on page 27.
Increasinancial smarts
Ask Junior Achievement™s 
Ginayney
 about Wells˚Fargo™s commitment to her organization and get ready to talk 
a˚long time. More than 2,300 team members volunteered with Junior Achievement in 2010 around the nation teaching 

˛nancial literacy, entrepreneurship, and workforce readiness to 46,000 students, such as 
Jacob
, Sophia
, and 
Nathan
. Wells˚Fargo™s 
Dader
 is on Junior Achievement™s board for the region serving Minnesota, North Dakota, and 

Western Wisconsin where Wells˚Fargo has provided the most corporate volunteers for 15˚consecutive years. ﬁWells˚Fargo 

has been an innovative partner, providing so much more than just volunteers,ﬂ said Blayney, executive director for Junior 

Achievement Upper Midwest. For instance, Wells˚Fargo donated a portion of a former banking store in Maplewood, 

Minnesota, that Junior Achievement converted to a BizTown site (pictured). It™s a replica city where students role play 

the economic happenings of a real city. Other team members serve on local advisory boards and help recruit more 

team member volunteers. Wells˚Fargo also contributed to expand Junior Achievement™s online ˛nancial-education 

curriculum. ﬁWe need to do all we can to assure children can make smart ˛nancial decisions and Wells˚Fargo has been 

an invaluable supporter to Junior Achievement.ﬂ
Boosting hope
Things are looking up for a challenged Augusta,˚Georgia, neighborhood that™s now home to 
Sharna Roundtree
 and her three children and the site of a new Salvation Army Kroc Community Center. Wells˚Fargo was 
instrumental to both. The Wells˚Fargo Housing Foundation partnered with the city, team members, and a local 

nonpro˛t to renovate a foreclosed home. Twenty-˛ve team member volunteers then spent 181˚hours alongside 

Roundtree cleaning and rebuilding the house. The company also rallied local support˙Š˙and donated $250,000 

through the Foundation˙Š˙for the community center, where as many as 20˚service organizations will have o˜ces 

to direct families to the help they need when completed in 2011. ﬁWhen a˚community is hurting, providing 

hope can take any number of forms,ﬂ said Market President 
Susutt
. ﬁI˚am proud that our company 

continues to help individuals and support the community at large.ﬂ
Homeowner Sharna Roundtree (left), with team members (from left): Joe Mitchell, Josh Linton, Ajay Singh, Susan Hunnicutt, 
Carol˚Counts, Adile Williams, Allen Farr, Kim Lewis, Arnitra Lockhart, Lynne Harris, Evita Butler
Financial lessons
Managing your ˛nances is tough enough without 
having to do it all alone. That philosophy is 

behind an innovative partnership to improve 

the lives of African Americans though ˛nancial 

literacy training˙Š˙at church. Wells˚Fargo and 

the Citizenship Education Fund, an a˜liate of 

the Rev.˚Jesse˚L. Jackson˚Sr.™s Rainbow PUSH 

Coalition, are teaming to teach the basics to 

African American clergy and parishioners, who 

in turn will pass the lessons along. ﬁEducation 

is the solution to today™s ˛nancial challenges,ﬂ 

said 
on
, Wells˚Fargo™s director of 

national partnerships, who is based in Charlotte, 

North˚Carolina. ﬁAnd we™ve found that sometimes 

the best way to approach unfamiliar ˛nancial 

subjects is to reach people where they are 

comfortable and then build on that.ﬂ In its initial 

phases, the partnership involves 1,500 churches  

at six sites across the U.S., where participants use 

the Wells˚Fargo 
Hands on Banking® curriculum. 

Dixon said, ﬁIt™s all part of our commitment  

to the long-term economic development of the 

African American community.ﬂ
ﬁ 
Sometimes the best 
way to approach 
unfamiliar ˛nancial 
subjects is to reach 
people where they 
are comfortable and 
then build on that.ﬂ
$4.2 m every week
$600,000 
every day
$25,000 
every hour
Where we give
˛Education 30%
˛Community Development 28%
˛Human Services 
25%
˛Arts and Culture 
8%˛Civic 6%
˛Environmental 2%
˛Other 1%
Our community commitment
˛ Social capital 
applying our best thinking as 

leaders in making communities 

better places to live and work
 ˛ Team member volunteerism 

encouraging and celebrating the 

good work team members do in 

their communities
 ˛ Financial contributions 

giving with purpose and focus
 ˛ Compliance 

conducting business ethically and 

responsibly according to legal 

requirements and our own standards
   donated by team members during 
annual Community Support and United Way Campaign
   hours volunteered by team 
members˙Š˙Average value of a volunteer hour: $20.85, 
equivalent to $28.1˚million in time contributed
  * in Community Development 
Lending˙Š˙Includes a˝ ordable housing, community 

service, and economic development loans
   to educational organizations˙Š˙
$17˚million in matched educational donation from 

team˚members
Environmental progress
·  $6˚billion in environmental ˛ nancing
·  Set a goal to reduce our U.S.-based greenhouse gas 
emissions by 20˚percent below 2008 levels by 2018
·  New banking stores will use about 20˚percent less 
energy and 40˚percent less water than conventional 
buildings of the same type
*˝preliminary estimate; subject to change pending March 1, 2011, regulatory ˚ ling
Evita Butler, Augusta, Georgia
Wells Fargo contributed
$219 million
to 19,000 non-profits 
in 2010, an average of:
˛˜Board of Directors
John S. Ch
6Chairman, CEO
Sybase, Inc.

Dublin, California

(Computer software)
Philip J
1, 5, 7Retired Chairman,  

President, CEO

Paci˛c Telesis Group

San Francisco, California

(Telecommunications)
Nicholas G. Moor
1, 3, 7Retired Global Chairman
PricewaterhouseCoopers

New York, New York

(Accounting)
Lloyd H. De
1, 2, 3, 7President, CEO

Catholic Healthcare West

San Francisco, California

(Healthcare)
John D. Bak
1, 2, 3Executive Chairman
Patriot Transportation 

Holding, Inc.

Jacksonville, Florida

(Transportation, real estate 

management)
Judith M. Runsta
2, 3, 4Of Counsel

Foster Pepper PLLC

Seattle, Washington

(Law ˜rm)
Susan E. En
3, 4, 6Chief Executive O˜cer

Portero, Inc.

New York, New York

(Online luxury retailer)
Stephen W. San
5, 6, 7
Retired Chairman

General Mills, Inc.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

(Packaged foods)
John G. Stum
Chairman, President, CEO

Wells Fargo & Company
Enrique Hernandez, Jr
1, 2, 4, 7Chairman, CEO

Inter-Con Security 

Systems,˚Inc.

Pasadena, California

(Security services)
Cynthia H. Millig
1, 2, 3, 5, 7Dean Emeritus

College of Business 

Administration

University of Nebraska Œ 

Lincoln, Nebraska

(Higher education)Susan G. Swens
1, 5President, CEO

Sage Software Œ North America

Irvine, California

(Business software and 

services supply)
Standing Committees
1.  Audit and Examination
2.  Corporate Responsibility *
3.  Credit
4.  Finance5.  Governance and Nominating
6.  Human Resources
7.  Risk *
* E˚ective January 1, 2011
Richard D. McC
4, 6Chairman Emeritus
US WEST, Inc.

Denver, Colorado

(Communications)
Mackey J. McDona
5, 6Retired Chairman, CEO
VF Corporation

Greensboro, North Carolina

(Apparel manufacturer)
Donald M. Jam
4, 6Chairman, CEO

Vulcan Materials Company

Birmingham, Alabama

(Construction materials)
John G. Stumpf, Chairman, President, CEO *
Paul R. Ackerman, Treasurer
Caryl J. Athanasiu, Chief Operational Risk O˜cer

Patricia R. Callahan, Chief Administrative˚O˜cer * 
ƒJon R. Campbell, Social Responsibility

David M. Carroll, Wealth, Brokerage and 
Retirement˚Services *
Hope A. Hardison, Human Resources

Bruce E. Helsel, Corporate Development

Laurel A. Holschuh, Corporate Secretary

David A. Hoyt, Wholesale Banking *

Richard D. Levy, Controller *

Michael J. Loughlin, Chief Risk˚O˜cer *

Kevin McCabe, Chief Auditor
Avid Modjtabai, Technology and˚Operations *

Mark C. Oman, Home and Consumer˚Finance *

Kevin A. Rhein, Card Services and 
Consumer˚Lending *
Joseph J. Rice, Chief Credit˚O˜cer

James H. Rowe, Investor Relations

Eric D. Shand, Chief Loan Examiner

Timothy J. Sloan, Chief Financial O˜cer * 
ƒJames M. Strother, General Counsel *

Oscar Suris, Corporate Communications

Carrie L. Tolstedt, Community Banking *

Joseph R. York, Investment Portfolio
* ﬁ Executive o˛cersﬂ according to Securities and Exchange 
Commission rules
ƒ E˚ective February 8, 2011
Executivers, Corporat
˜˚COMMUNITY BANKING
Group Head
Carrie L. Tolstedt
Regional Banking
Regional Presidents

Paul W. ﬁChipﬂ Carlisle, Texas, Arkansas, 
Border Banking

John T. Gavin, Dallas-Fort Worth

Glenn V. Godkin, Houston

Don C. Kendrick, Central Texas

Suzanne M. Ramos, Border Banking

Kenneth A. Telg, Greater Texas
Thomas W. Honig, Mountain West
Nathan E. Christian, Colorado

Kirk L. Kellner, Nebraska, Kansas

Michael J. Matthews, Wyoming

Joy N. Ott, Montana

Dana B. Reddington, Idaho

Richard Strutz, Alaska

Greg A. Winegardner, Utah

Patrick G. Yalung, Washington
Gerrit van Huisstede, Desert Mountain
Kirk V. Clausen, Nevada

Pamela M. Conboy, Arizona

Donald J. Pearson, Oregon

Lisa J. Riley, New Mexico
James O. Prunty, Great Lakes
Mary E. Bell, Indiana, Ohio

Frederick A. Bertoldo, Michigan, 
Wisconsin
James D. Hanson, Greater Minnesota

Scott Johnson, Iowa, Illinois

Daniel P. Murphy, North˜Dakota, 
South˜Dakota
Laura A. Schulte, Eastern Region
Shelley Freeman, Florida
Scott M. Coble, North Florida

Kathryn G. Dinkin, Southeast Florida

Carl A. Miller, Greater Gulf Coast

Frank M. Newman III, Gold Coast

Larisa F. Perry, Central Florida
Darryl G. Harmon, Southeast
Jerome J. Byers, Atlanta

Michael S. Donnelly, MidSouth/
Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi
Ebbert E. (Pete) Jones, Jr., Mid-Atlantic
Andrew M. Bertamini, Baltimore

Timothy A. Butturini, Greater Virginia

Michael L. Golden,  
Greater Washington, D.C.
Deborah E. O™Donnell, 
Western˜Virginia
Stanhope A. Kelly, Carolinas
Kendall K. Alley, Charlotte

Jack O. Clayton, Triangle/Eastern 
North Carolina
Leslie L. Hayes, Western/Triad 
North˜Carolina
Forrest R. (Rick) Redden, 
South˜Carolina
Michelle Y. Lee, Northeast
Lucia D. Gibbons, Northern New Jersey

Joseph F. Kirk, New York, Connecticut

Brenda K. Ross-Dulan, Southern 
New˜Jersey
Hugh C. Long II, Penn-Del
Vincent J. Liuzzi III, Greater 
Philadelphia, Delaware
Gregory S. Redden,  
Greater Pennsylvania
Lisa J. Stevens, California
Michael F. Billeci, San Francisco Bay Area

Felix S. Fernandez, Northern California

James W. Foley, Greater San˜Francisco 
Bay Area
David A. Galasso, Central California

Robert W. Myers, Orange County

John K. Sotoodeh, Los Angeles Metro

Kim M. Young, Southern California
Diversi˛ed Products Group
Michael R. James
Marc L. Bernstein, Small Business 
Segment and Business Direct Lending
Jerry G. Bowen, Auto Dealer 
Commercial˜Services
Kevin Moss, Home Equity Lending

David J. Rader, SBA Lending

Todd A. Reimringer, Business 
Payroll˜Services
Debra B. Rossi, Merchant 
Payment˜Solutions
Thomas A. Wolfe, Wells˜Fargo 
Dealer˜Services
Robert D. Worth, Business Banking 
Support Group
Kenneth A. Zimmerman, Consumer and 
Small Business Deposits
Internet Services Group
James P. Smith
Customer Connection
Diana L. Starcher
HOME AND CONSUMER FINANCE
Group Head

Mark C. Oman
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
Michael J. Heid
John P. Gibbons, Capital Markets
Cara K. Heiden
Franklin R. Codel, National Retail Sales/
Ful˚llment Services
Mary C. Co˛n, Mortgage Servicing/
Post˜Closing
Joe F. Jackson, Wells Fargo Ventures

Eric P. Stoddard, Correspondent Lending

Kathleen L. Vaughan, Wholesale Lending
CARD SERVICES AND 
CONSUMER˝LENDING
Group Head
Kevin A. Rhein
Daniel I. Ayala, Global 
Remittance˜Services
R. Kirk Bare, Education Financial Services

Robert A. Hurzeler, Auto Finance

Edward M. Kadletz, Consumer and 
Business Debit Card/Prepaid Products
Michael R. McCoy, Consumer Credit Card

Robert A. Ryan, Wells Fargo Rewards and 
Enhancement Services
R. Brent Vallat, Personal Credit 
Management
WEALTH, BROKERAGE 
AND˝RETIREMENT
Group Head
David M. Carroll
Christine A. Deakin, Business Services

Daniel J. Ludeman, Wells Fargo Advisors

Clyde W. Ostler, Family Wealth

John M. Papadopulos, Retirement

Jay S. Welker, Wealth Management
WHOLESALE BANKING
Group Head

David A. Hoyt
Asset Management Group
Michael J. Niedermeyer
Robert W. Bissell, Wells Capital 
Management,˜Inc.
Thomas K. Hoops, A˛liated Managers

Karla M. Rabusch, Wells˜Fargo Funds 
Management,˜LLC
Commercial Banking
Petros G. Pelos
Carlos Evans, Eastern 
Commercial˜Banking
Commercial Real Estate
A. Larry Chapman
Charles H. ﬁChipﬂ Fedalen, Real Estate 
Banking Group
Christopher J. Jordan, Hospitality 
Finance Group
Robin W. Michel, Middle Market 
Real˜Estate Group
Stephen F. St. Thomas, Real Estate Capital 
Investments Group
Corporate Banking Group
J. Michael Johnson
J. Nicholas Cole, Wells˜Fargo 
Restaurant˜Finance
James D. Heinz, U.S. Corporate Banking

Kyle G. Hranicky, Energy Group

John R. Hukari, Equity Funds Group

Jay J. Kornmayer, Gaming Division

David B. Marks, Credit and 
Risk˜Management
Brian J. Van Elslander, Financial 
Sponsors˜Group
Daniel P. Weiler, Financial Institutions 
Group; Power and Utilities Group
Insurance Services Group
David J. Zuercher
Neal R. Aton, Wells˜Fargo Insurance 
Services USA, Inc. and Wells˜Fargo 
Insurance,˜Inc.
Michael P. Day, Rural Community 
Insurance Services,˜Inc.
International Group
Richard J.L. Yorke
Peter P. Connolly, Global 
Transaction˜Banking
Sanjiv S. Sanghvi, Global Banking Group
Charles H. Silverman, Global 
Financial˜Institutions
Special Situations Group
Mark L. Myers
Specialized Lending, Servicing 
and˝Trust
J. Edward Blakey
Brian Bartlett, Corporate Trust Services
Joseph R. Becquer, Commercial 
Mortgage˜Servicing
Julie Caperton, Asset Backed Finance

Adam Davis, Real Estate Capital Markets

Lesley A. Eckstein, Community Lending 
and Investment
John M. McQueen, Wells Fargo 
Equipment Finance, Inc.
Alan Wiener, Multi-family Housing
Wells Fargo Capital Finance
Henry K. Jordan
Scott R. Diehl, Corporate Finance

William J. Mayer, Commercial and 
Retail˜Finance
Wells Fargo Securities
John R. Shrewsberry
Christopher Bartlett, Equity Sales 
and˜Trading
Walter Dolhare and Tim Mullins,  
Fixed Income Sales and Trading
Robert Engel and Jonathan Weiss,  
Investment Banking and 
Capital˜Markets
Benjamin V. Lambert, Eastdil 
Secured,˜LLC
Diane Schumaker-Krieg, Research 
and˜Economics
Phil D. Smith, Government and 
Institutional Banking
George Wick, Principal Investments
Wholesale Credit and 
Risk˝Management
David J. Weber
Michael P. Sadilek, Workout
Wholesale Services
Stephen M. Ellis
Deborah M. Ball, Wholesale 
Internet˜Services
Michael J. Kennedy, Payment Strategies
Daniel C. Peltz, Treasury 
Management˜Group
CORPORATE FINANCE
Group Head

Timothy J. Sloan
Norwest Equity Partners
John E. Lindahl, Managing Partner
Norwest Venture Partners
Promod Haque, Managing Partner
Corporate Properties
Donald E. Dana
Senior Business Leaders
˜˚˛˝˙˙

˜



˚˙˚˚


˚˚



˚˙˚

•˙ˆ‡˘ˆ…˚—

š˙˙˚
˚˘ˆ’
–˚

š˙˛˙⁄˛˚˚

˚˘ˆ‡˙‹›

›ˆ–˚

˘ˆ…˚

˚˛˚˚

˚˛˙˛

˚˚

š˚˙˚˚

˚—˚ˆ‡˘ˆ˜›•˚

˚˙˚˛

ˇ˝›˙‹ˆ‡˙
˚—›˙
‡

“˛
˝
˚—˘ˆ’˙

€‹

›˚
˚
ˇ˚˙
›ˆ“˛˙˙—˚
€˚

š˙˚˚

˜˙˚

“˛˙‹—˚

ˇ˚˛˝˚ˆ“˙˛˛›˚˚
˚˛˛›˚˛—˙˚
˙˛›˙˛

˚›
˙˙˚⁄˚—
˙˛
˙˙

˝—˙˙˛ˆ‘˝˛˚

˚
˙˚˘˜˘
˚
˝˛˚
˘ˆš›˚˛˚
š˚›˙

˚˚›˛˝ﬁƒ˚
–˚˛˚
ˇ˚›˛˝˚
–˚˛˚
“
˚˛˚
˘ˆˇ˙˙˙˚
ˇ˙˙˛˙›

˘ˆš˙‹ˆ”

˚ˆš˘ˆ…
–˙˙˛˙›

‘€˘ˆˇ˝•˙˙˛ˆ
˚˚‹˚˛˙
˘ˆ…
˙›˚
ˇ˝˙˚˚
˚˛€˝€˙˚

“˘ˆ“˚˚

˚—˘ˆ“›˙˛€˝€
˙˚
˚˚˚˚˚

…˘ˆ‡›˙˛›



š˝—ˆ‡˘ˆ”˚˚
“
˚˚—
‡˚˛—˚

‹˚
˜˙˛€˝˚
š˙˙ˆƒ›ˆˇ

˚˘ˆ…˚

˘ˆ…
˚›˛
˘ˆ…˙˛
˚›—
˚˙˚˛
˚
…

š˘ˆŸ˝——˙˛—
—˚

˚—
˛
˙˛
˝ˇšˆ


‡
‡
˚˘ˆ’
˚
˜˚˛˚ˆš˘ˆ’
“˛˘ˆ˜˚˚
“
‡˚˛›ˆ˜˘ˆ˜˚

˚˚˛

˚˛

š˚˚
˛
˛˝ˇšˆ

š˙
›˚˚
…€
…˘ˆš˙€˝˚

…€˙

ƒ˚˛˚
˚˛
˚˘ˆ‡€˜›˙˛ˆ˜˛˚˛

…˘ˆ…›˚˛˙‹˚˛
€˙—
…˚˙˛˚˛
‡˚



˚˚˛˛
˚

˘ˆˇ˚˛

›˙˚

˚˚˙—

˚˙˛˙˚˚
š


˚˘ˆ’›

˚˘ˆ–˙›˙˛
…˚
‡˚€˘
˚˘ˆ’˚

š˚ˆ‡˘ˆ…˚⁄˚˛
‡˚˜
˛

˜
˜˙˛€˝˚
˛
˚
˚˙˚˙ˆ

›ˆ
“€
…
…˙˚
˚˙˚˙ˆ˜˚

˛
˚
˘ˆ–˚˚˛
…€˙
˚—˘ˆ’˘ˆ˜

š›˙˛

›ˆ“

˚˘ˆš˚›˙˛

˚˘ˆ‡˛
…˝˚
˘ˆ‘€˝˚

€˝˚
‹
’
˚˘ˆŸ˙˛
–˙˚˚˛€˙ˆ
˚˛
€˙€˘
˚˚›˚›ˆ
€€˘

˚˛˘ˇ˘ˆ”˙
˘ˆ˜›˚
˛˚
œ˝˚
˙˛—˚
“€˝˚
š
‡›˙˛
š⁄

˘ˆƒ˚˛˚˙›

˙˛€˝˚
‡˚
˚€˙

˚˙˚˙ˆ˜˚

ˇ˘ˆƒ›ˆˇ

˚˛
ƒ€˙€˘
˙˛›ˆ’
‡’
’
€˙ˆ“€˙

˘ˆ‡˚›˙˛˙˛€˝˚
…€˙
‡
˙‹⁄˙˛˛›
˚
˛˚
˚˚˛
“€˚˛˚
…˙˝

˜˚
˘ˆˇ˚—
˙€˜
˚˙˛˙˚˛
€

˚
€˝˚
‡‹

˚˙⁄˙˛
˚˚
‡‹

˚˚

˚˘ˆš˚›—
˛˙˚
‡˚
˛


˝—
ˇ
˚˚˙˛
ˇ
˚˚˙˛
˛
˚˚
š
    Financial Review
 34 Overview
 38 Earnings Performance
 49 Balance Sheet Analysis
 52 Off
-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 54 Risk Management
 82 Capital Management
 84 Critical Accounting Policies
 90 Current Accounting Developments
 90 Forward
-Looking Statements
 92 Risk Factors
  Controls and Procedures
 102
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures
  
102
 Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 102
 Management™s Report on Internal Control over 
 Financial Reporting
 103
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  F
inancial Statements  
 104
 Consolidated Statement of Income
 105
 Consolidated Balance Sheet
 106
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
Comprehensive Income
 110 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
  Notes to Financial Statements
 111 1 
Summary of Sign
ificant Accounting Policies 
121
 2 
Business Combinations
 122
 3  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 
122
 4  Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under  
Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments 
123
 5  Securities Available for Sale 
131 
6  Loans
 and Allowance for Credit Losses
 145
 7  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets 
146
 8  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
156
 9 Mortgage Banking Activities 
159
 10 Intangible Assets 
161
 11 Deposits 
162
 12 Short
-Term Borrowings
 163 13 Long
-Term Debt
 166
 14 Guarantees and Legal Actions
 172
 15 Derivatives 
179
 16 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
194
 17 Preferred Stock 
196
 18 Common Stock and Stock Plans
 201
 19 
 Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
209
 20 
 Income Taxes
 211
 21 
 Ear
nings Per Common Share
 212
 22  Other Comprehensive Income 
213
 23 
 Operating Segments 
215
 24 
 Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements 
220 25 Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements  
221 Report of Independent Registered 
 
Public Accounting Firm
 222 Quarterly Financial Data
 224 Glossary of Acronyms
   
 
 
 
 
 33    This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes, contains forward
-looking 
statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and condit
ion, expectations for our operations and business, and our 
assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward
-looking statements. Actual results may differ 
materially from our forward
-looking statements due to several factors. 
Some of these factors are described in the Financial Review 
and in the Financial Statements and related Notes. For a discussion of other factors, refer to the ﬁForward
-Looking Statementsﬂ and 
ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ sections in this Report 
and the ﬁRegulation and S
upervisionﬂ section of our Annual Report on Form 10
-K for the 
year 
ended December 31, 2010 (2010 Form 10
-K).   See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout this Report.
  Financial Review
  Wells
 Fargo & Compan
y is a $1.3
 trillion diversified financial 
services company providing banking, insurance, trust and 
investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail 

banking, brokerage and consumer finance through banking 

stores, the internet and other distributio
n channels to 
individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the 

District of Columbia (D.C.) and in other countries. We ranked 

fourth in assets and second in the market value of our common 

stock among our large bank peers at December 31, 2010. 
When 

we refer to ﬁWells
 Fargo,ﬂ ﬁthe Company,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or ﬁusﬂ in 
this Report, we mean Wells
 Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
(consolidated). When we refer to the ﬁParent,ﬂ we mean 

Wells
 Fargo & Company. When we refer to ﬁlegacy Wells
 Fargo,ﬂ 
we mean W
ells
 Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation 
(Wachovia).
 Overview
    Our vision is to satisfy all our customers™ financial needs, 
help them succeed financially, be recognized as the premier 

financial services company in our markets and be one of 

America™s great companie
s. Our primary strategy to achieve this 
vision is to increase the number of products our customers buy 

from us and to offer them all of the financial products that fulfill 

their needs. Our cross
-sell strategy, diversified business model 
and the breadth of 
our geographic reach facilitate growth in both 

strong and weak economic cycles, as we can grow by expanding 

the number of products our current customers have with us, gain 

new customers in our extended markets, and increase market 

share in many businesses.
 We continued to earn more of our 
customers™ business in 2010 in both our retail and commercial 

banking businesses and in our equally customer
-centric 
securities brokerage and investment banking businesses.
  Reflecting solid growth in a variety of business
es, 
Wells
 Fargo 
net income was a record $12.4 billion in 2010. Diluted earnings 

per common share were $2.21. Pre
-tax pre
-provision profit 
(PTPP) was $34.8 billion in 2010, which covered almost 

2.o
 times annual net charge
-offs. PTPP is total revenue less 
noninterest expense. Management believes that PTPP is a useful 
financial measure because it enables investors and others to 

assess the Company's ability to generate capital to cover credit 

losses through a credit cycle.
  Our combined company retail bank hous
ehold cross
-sell, 
reported for the first time in December 2010, was 5.70 products 

per household, up from 5.47 a year ago. Cross
-sell for the 
combined company, which is lower than legacy Wells Fargo 
stand
-alone cross
-sell, indicates the opportunity to earn 
more 
business from our Wachovia customers. The cross
-sell for 
customers in the West was 6.14 products, compared with 5.11 for 

customers in the East. Our goal is eight products per customer, 

which is approximately half of our estimate of potential demand 

for an average U.S. household. One of every four of our retail 
banking households has eight or more products. Business 

banking cross
-sell offers another potential opportunity for 
growth, with cross
-sell of 4.04 products in our Western footprint 
(including le
gacy Wells Fargo and converted Wachovia 
customers).
  Wells
 Fargo remained one of the largest providers of credit to 
the U.S. economy. We continued to lend to creditworthy 

customers and, during 2010, made $665 billion in new loan 

commitments to consumer, sm
all business and commercial 

customers, including $386 billion of residential mortgage 

originations. We are an industry leader in loan modifications for 

homeowners. As of December 31, 2010, more than 

620,000
 Wells
 Fargo mortgage customers were in active tri
al or 
had completed the loan modifications since the beginning of 

2009. We also continued to support our communities by making 

a $400 million charitable contribution to the Wells Fargo 

Foundation in 2010, covering three years of estimated future 

funding. 
  Our core deposits grew 2% from December 31, 2009. Average 
core deposits funded 100% of total average loans in 2010, up 

from 93% in 2009. We continue to attract high quality core 

deposits in the form of checking and savings deposits, which 

grew 6% to $720.
9 billion at December 31, 2010, from 
$679.9
 billion a year ago, as we continued to gain new customers 
and deepen our relationships with existing customers.
  On December 31, 2008, Wells
 Fargo acquired Wachovia, one 
of the nation™s largest diversified financ
ial services companies. 
Wachovia™s assets and liabilities were included in the 

December
 31, 2008, consolidated balance sheet at their 
respective fair values on the acquisition date. Because the 

acquisition was completed on December 31, 2008, Wachovia™s 

res
ults of operations were not included in our 2008
 income 
statement. Beginning in 2009, our consolidated results and 

associated financial information, as well as our consolidated 

average balances, include Wachovia.
  We are beginning our third year of the Wac
hovia integration, 
which we expect to substantially complete by the end of 2011. 
34    Our progress to date remains on track and on schedule, with 
business and revenue synergies exceeding our expectations at 

the time the merger was announced. The Wachovia merger
 has 
already proven to be a financial success, with substantially all of 

the expected savings already realized and growing revenue 

synergies reflecting market share gains in many businesses, 

including mortgage, auto dealer services and investment 

banking.
  We continued to invest in core businesses while maintaining 
a strong balance sheet. In 2010, we opened 47 retail banking 

stores for a retail network total of 6,314
 stores. We converted a 
total of 749 Wachovia banking stores in Alabama, Arizona, 

California
, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Mississippi, Nevada, 
Tennessee and Texas, as well as the Wachovia credit card 

business and ATM network. The conversion of the remaining 

Wachovia eastern markets is expected to be substantially 

completed by the end of 2011.
  We continued taking actions to further strengthen our 
balance sheet, including reducing our non
-strategic and 
liquidating loan portfolios, which have declined $54.6 billion 

since the Wachovia acquisition, including $26.3 billion in 2010, 

to $115.7 billion at 
December 31, 2010. We significantly built 

capital in 2010, up $12.9 billion, or 12%, from a year ago. Our 

capital growth since our merger with Wachovia has been driven 

by record retained earnings and other sources of internal capital 

generation, as well as
 three common stock offerings between 
October 2008 and December 2009 totaling over $33 billion. 

This included the $12.2 billion offering in fourth quarter 2009, 

which allowed us to repay in full the U.S. Treasury™s Troubled 

Asset Relief Program (TARP) pref
erred stock investment. We 
substantially increased the size of the Company with the 

Wachovia merger, and experienced cyclically elevated credit 

costs. However, our capital ratios at December 31, 2010, were 

higher than they were prior to the Wachovia acquis
ition. Tier 1 
common equity increased to $81.3
 billion at December 31, 2010, 
or 8.30% of risk
-weighted assets. The Tier 1 capital ratio 
increased to 11.16% and Tier 1 leverage ratio increased to 9.19%. 

See the ﬁCapital Managementﬂ section in this Report fo
r more 
information regarding Tier 1 common equity.
   We experienced continued and significant improvement in 
our credit portfolio, with most metrics showing positive 

movement by the end of 2010. Net charge
-offs declined in 2010 
from the peak in fourth qua
rter 2009, with almost every major 
loan category recording lower charge
-offs by the end of 2010. 
Delinquencies continued to decline from the peak at the end of 

2009 and, in the fourth quarter 2010, nonaccrual loans declined 

for the first time since the Wac
hovia merger. The improvement 
in credit quality was also evident in the portfolio of purchased 

credit
-impaired (PCI) loans acquired through the Wachovia 
merger, which overall has performed better than originally 

expected. Reflecting improved performance in
 our loan 
portfolios, the provision for credit losses was $2.0 billion less 

than net charge
-offs for 2010. Absent significant deterioration in 
the economy, we expect future reductions in the allowance for 

credit losses. The improvement in losses, a more fa
vorable 
economic outlook and improved credit statistics in several 

portfolios further increase our confidence that our credit cycle is 

turning, provided economic conditions do not deteriorate.
  We believe it is important to maintain a well controlled 
opera
ting environment as we complete the integration of the 
Wachovia businesses and grow the combined company. We 

manage our credit risk by establishing what we believe are sound 

credit policies for underwriting new business, while monitoring 

and reviewing the 
performance of our loan portfolio. We manage 

the interest rate and market risks inherent in our asset and 

liability balances within established ranges, while ensuring 

adequate liquidity and funding. We maintain strong capital 

levels to facilitate future gr
owth.
  As a result of PCI accounting for loans acquired in the merger 
with Wachovia, ratios of the Company, including the growth rate 

in nonperforming assets (NPAs) since December 31, 2008, may 

not be directly comparable with periods prior to the merger or
 with credit
-related ratios of other financial institutions. In 
particular:
  Wachovia™s high risk loans were written down pursuant to 

PCI accounting at the time of merger. Therefore, the 

allowance for credit losses is lower than otherwise would 

have been re
quired without PCI loan accounting; and
  Because we virtually eliminated Wachovia™s nonaccrual 

loans at December 31, 2008, quarterly growth in our 

nonaccrual loans during 2010 and 2009 was higher than it 

would have been without PCI loan accounting. Similarl
y, 
our net charge
-offs rate was lower than it otherwise would 
have been. 
   35 Overview 
(continued)
    Table 1:  Six
-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data
                                           % Five
-year
                   Change
 compound
                 2010/
 growth
 (in
 millions, except per share amounts)
    2010
   2009   2008   2007   2006   2005  2009
 rate
 Income statement
                     Net interest income
 $  44,757
   46,324
   25,143
   20,974
   19,951
   18,504
   (3)
 %  19  Noninterest income
    40,453
   42,362
   16,734
   18,546
   15,817
   14,591
   (5)
    23      
Revenue
    85,210
   88,686
   41,877
   39,520
   35,768
   33,095
   (4)
    21  Provision for credit losses
    15,753
   21,668
   15,979
   4,939
   2,204
   2,383
   (27)
    46  Noninterest expense
    50,456
   49,020
   22,598
   22,746
   20,767
   18,943
   3     22  Net income before
                         
noncontrolling interests
    12,663
   12,667
   2,698
   8,265
   8,567
   7,892
   -     10  Less: Net income from
                         
noncontrolling int
erests
    301   392   43   208   147   221   (23)
    6  Wells Fargo net income
    12,362
   12,275
   2,655
   8,057
   8,420
   7,671
   1     10  Earnings per common share
    2.23
   1.76
   0.70
   2.41
   2.50
   2.27
   27     -  Diluted earnings per common sh
are
    2.21
   1.75
   0.70
   2.38
   2.47
   2.25
   26     -  Dividends declared per common share
    0.20
   0.49
   1.30
   1.18
   1.08
   1.00
   (59)
    (28)
 Balance sheet (at year end)
                 Securities available for sale
 $  172,654
   172,710
   151,569
   72,951
   42,629
   41,834
   -  %  33  Loans
    757,267
   782,770
   864,830
   382,195
   319,116
   310,837
   (3)
    19  Allowance for loan losses
    23,022
   24,516
   21,013
   5,307
   3,764
   3,871
   (6)
    43  Goodwill
    24,770
   24,812
   22,627
   13,106
   11,275
   10,787
   -     18  Assets
    1,258,128
   1,243,646
   1,309,639
   575,442
   481,996
   481,741
   1     21  Core deposits (1)
    798,192
   780,737
   745,432
   311,731
   288,068
   253,341
   2     26  Long
-term debt
    156,983
   203,861
   267,158
   99,393
   87,145
   79,668
   (23)
    15  Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
    126,408
   111,786
   99,084
   47,628
   45,814
   40,660
   13     25  Noncontrolling interests
    1,481
   2,573
   3,232
   286   254   239   (42)
    44  Total equity
    127,889
   114,359
   102,316
   47,914
   46,068
   40,899
   12     26                          (1)
 Core deposits are noninterest
-bearing deposits, interest
-bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign depos
its 
(Eurodollar sweep balances).
   36     Table 2:  Ratios and Per Common Share Data
         
                      Year ended December 31,
             2010
     2009   2008  Profitability ratios
            Wells Fargo net income to average assets (ROA) 
    1.01
  %  0.97
   0.44
  Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock to average  
             Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity (ROE) 
    10.33
     9.88
   4.79
  Efficiency ratio 
(1)
    59.2
     55.3
   54.0
  Capital ratios
            At yea
r end: 
             Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity to assets 
    9.41
     8.34
   5.21
    Total equity to assets 
    10.16
     9.20
   7.81
    Risk
-based capital (2)
               Tier 1 capital 
    11.16
     9.25
   7.84
      Total capital
     15.01
     13.26
   11.83
    Tier 1 leverage (2)(3)
    9.19
     7.87
   14.52
    Tier 1 common equity (4)
    8.30
     6.46
   3.13
  Average balances: 
             Average Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity to average assets 
    9.17
     6.41
   8.18
    Average total equity to average assets 
    9.96
     9.34
   8.89
  Per common share data
              Dividend payout (5)
    9.0
     27.9
   185.4
    Book value 
 $  22.49
     20.03
   16.15
    Market price (6)
               High 
    34.25
     31.53
   44.68
      Low 
    23.02
     7.80
   19.89
      Year end 
    30.99
     26.99
   29.48
          
           (1)
 The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income).
 (2)
 See Note 25 (Regulatory an
d Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.
 (3)
 Due to the Wachovia transaction that closed on December 31, 2008, the Tier 1 leverage ratio, which considers period
-end Tier 1 capital and quarterly aver
ages in the 
computation of the ratio, does not reflect average assets of Wachovia for the full period ended December 31, 2008.
   (4)
 See the "Capital Management" section in this Report for additional information.
 (5)
 Dividends declared per common share
 as a percentage of earnings per common share.
 (6)
 Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System.
 37    Net income for 2010 was $12.4 billion ($2.21 diluted per share) 
with $11.6 
billion applicable to common stock, compared with 

net income of $12.3 billion ($1.75 diluted per share) with 

$8.0
 billion applicable to common stock for 2009. 
Preferred 
stock dividends and accretion of preferred stock discount 

included $3.5 billion in 2009
 for Series D preferred stock issued 
to the U.S. Treasury Department in 2008, which reduced 2009 

diluted earnings by $0.76 per share. These preferred shares were 

redeemed December 23, 2009, when we repaid the U.S. 

Treasury Department™s TARP preferred stock
 investment.
 Earnings Performance
     Our 2010 earnings were influenced by a slow recovery from 
the recession that dominated 2009 and most of 2008 and by a 

continuation of a low rate environment. These economic 

conditions caused declining loan demand, solid deposit 

generation and
 continued elevated credit losses. Earnings for 
2009 were influenced by the worsening of the recession that 

began in 2008, and low market rates. Both 2010 and 2009 were 

affected by merger integration costs.
  Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noni
nterest 
income, was $85.2 billion in 2010 compared with $88.7 billion 

in 2009 and $41.9 billion in 2008. In 2010, net interest income 

of $44.8
 billion represented 53% of revenue, compared with 
$46.3 billion (52%) in 2009 and $25.1 billion (60%) in 2008.
 Noninterest income was relatively stable in 2010 at 
$40.5
 billion, representing 47% of revenue, compared with 
$42.4 billion (48%) in 2009 and $16.7 billion (40%) in 2008. 

The increase in 2009 to 48% from 40% in 2008 was primarily 

due to a higher percentage 
of trust and investment fees (11% in 
2009, up from 7% in 2008) and very strong mortgage banking 

results (14% in 2009, up from 6% in 2008, predominantly from 

legacy Wells Fargo).
  Noninterest expense was $50.5 billion in 2010, compared 
with $49.0 billion in
 2009 and $22.6 billion in 2008. 
Noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue was 59% in 

2010, 55% in 2009 and 54% in 2008. Noninterest expense for 

2010 included $1.9 billion of Wachovia merger
-related 
integration expense compared with $895
 million in 20
09.
  Table 3 presents the components of revenue and noninterest 
expense as a percentage of revenue for year
-over
-year results.
 38    Table 3:  Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense as a Percentage of Revenue
                                         Year ended December 31,
           % of 
         % of
         % of
   (in millions)
    2010
  revenue
        2009  revenue
        2008  revenue
   Interest income
                             Trading assets
 $  1,121
   1  %   $  944   1  %   $  189   -  % Securities available for sale
    10,236
   12         11,941
   13         5,577
   13    Mortgages held for sale (MHFS)
    1,736
   2         1,930
   2         1,573
   4    Loans held for sale (LHFS)
    101   -         183   -         48   -    Loans
    39,808
   47         41,659
   47         27,651
   66    Other interest income
    437   1         336   -         181   -      Total interest income
    53,439
   63         56,993
   64         35,219
   84    Interest expense
                             Deposits
    2,832
   3         3,774
   4         4,521
   11    Short
-term borrowings
    106   -         231   -         1,478
   4    Long
-term debt
    4,888
   6         5,786
   7         3,789
   9    Other interest expense
    227   -         172   -         -   -      Total interest expense
    8,053
   9         9,963
   11         9,788
   23    Net interest income (on a taxable
-equivalent basis)
    45,386
   53         47,030
   53         25,431
   61    Taxable
-equivalent adjustment
    (629)
  (1)        (706)
  (1)
        (288)
  (1)
   Net interest income
    44,757
   53         46,324
   52         25,143
   60    Noninterest income
                             Service charges on deposit accounts
    4,916
   6         5,741
   6         3,190
   8    Trust and investment fees (1)
    10,934
   13         9,735
   11         2,924
   7    Card fees
    3,652
   4         3,683
   4         2,336
   6    Other fees (1)
    3,990
   5         3,804
   4         2,097
   5    Mortgage banking (1)
    9,737
   11         12,028
   14         2,525
   6    Insurance
    2,126
   2         2,126
   2         1,830
   4    Net gains from trading activities
    1,648
   2         2,674
   3         275   1    Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for sale
    (324)
  -         (127)
  -         1,037
   2    Net gains (losses) from equity investments
    779   1         185   -         (757)
  (2)
   Operating leases
    815   1         685   1         427   1    Other
    2,180
   3         1,828
   2         850   2      Total noninterest income
    40,453
   47         42,362
   48         16,734
   40    Noninterest expense
                             Salaries
    13,869
   16         13,757
   16         8,260
   20    Commission and incentive compensation
    8,692
   10         8,021
   9         2,676
   6    Employee benefits
    4,651
   5         4,689
   5         2,004
   5    Equipment
    2,636
   3         2,506
   3         1,357
   3    Net occupancy
    3,030
   4         3,127
   4         1,619
   4    Core deposit and oth
er intangibles
    2,199
   3         2,577
   3         186   -    FDIC and other deposit assessments
    1,197
   1         1,849
   2         120   -    Other (2)
    14,182
   17         12,494
   14         6,376
   15      Total noninterest expense
    50,45
6   59         49,020
   55         22,598
   54    Revenue
 $  85,210
        $  88,686
        $  41,877
                                                                      (1)
 See Table 7 
Œ Noninterest Income in this Report for additional detail.
   (2)
 See Table 8 
Œ Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail.
   39 Earnings Performance 
(continued)
    Net Interest Income
 Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, 
loans (including yield
-related loan fees) and other interest
-earning assets minus the interest p
aid for deposits, short
-term 
borrowings and long
-term debt. The net interest margin is the 
average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate 

paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest 

income and the net interest margin a
re presented on a taxable
-equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently reflect income from 

taxable and tax
-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% 
federal statutory tax rate.
  Net interest income on a taxable
-equivalent basis was 
$45.4
 billion in 2010, c
ompared with $47.0 billion in 2009, and 
$25.4 billion in 2008. The net interest margin was 4.26% in 

2010, down 2 basis points from 4.28% in 2009 and 2009 was 

down 55 basis points from 4.83% in 2008. During 2010, net 

interest income was affected by prepayments of higher yielding 

mortgage
-backed securities, relatively soft commercial loan 
demand, and planned runoff of liquidating loan portfolios. The 

impact of these factors was mitigated by disciplined deposit 

pricing and reduced market funding costs. For 200
9, changes in 

net interest income from 2008 were primarily due to the impact 

of acquiring Wachovia. Although the addition of Wachovia 

increased earning assets and net interest income, it decreased 

the net interest margin because Wachovia™s net interest mar
gin 
was lower than that of legacy Wells
 Fargo.
  Table 4 presents the components of earning assets and 
funding sources as a percentage of earning assets to provide a 

more meaningful analysis of year
-over
-year 
changes that 
influenced net interest income.
  Th
e mix of earning assets and their yields are important 
drivers of net interest income. During 2010, there were slight 

shifts in our earning asset mix from loans and investments to 

more liquid assets. Although t
otal loans increased during fourth 
quarter 201
0, the 
soft loan demand earlier in 2010 and in 2009, 
as well as the impact of liquidating certain loan portfolios, 

reduced average loans in 2010 to 72% of average earning assets 

from 75% for 2009 and from 76% in 2008. Also, average 

mortgage
-backed securiti
es (MBS) dropped to 10% in 2010 from 
12% in 2009 and 13% in 2008. Average short
-term investments 
and trading account assets increased to 9% in 2010 from 4% in 

2009 and 2% in 2008.
 Average interest
-bearing deposits increased to 59% of 
average earning asset
s for 2010, from 58% for 2009 and 51% for 
2008. Average short
-term borrowings decreased to 4% of 
average earning assets from 5% for 2009 and 13% for 2008. 

Average interest
-bearing deposits increased as a percentage of 
funding for earning assets in 2010, ye
t the cost of deposits 

declined significantly as the mix shifted from higher cost 

certificates of deposit to checking and savings products, which 

were at lower yields
 in 2010 due to the prolonged low interest 
rate environment.
 Core deposits are a low
-cost 
source of funding 
and thus an important contributor to growth in net interest 

income and the net interest margin. Core deposits include 

noninterest
-bearing deposits, interest
-bearing checking, savings 
certificates, certain market rate and other savings, an
d certain 
foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). Average core 

deposits rose to $772.0
 billion in 2010 from $762.5
 billion in 
2009 and funded 100% and 93% of average loans, respectively. 

In 2008, core deposits of legacy Wells Fargo funded 82% of 

aver
age loans. About 90% of our core deposits are now in 
checking and savings deposits, one of the highest percentages in 

the industry.
  Table 5 presents the individual components of net interest 
income and the net interest margin. The effect on interest 

incom
e and costs of earning asset and funding mix changes 
described above, combined with rate changes during 2010, are 

analyzed in Table 6.
  40    Table 4:  Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of Average Earning Assets
                                                   Year ended December 31,
                     2010
          2009                      % of
         % of
                   Average
 earning
       Average
 earning
   (in millions)
   balance
 assets
       balance
 assets
   Earning a
ssets
                   Federal funds sold, securities purchased under
                     resale agreements and other short
-term investments
 $  62,961
   6  %   $  26,869
   2  % Trading assets
    29,920
   3         21,092
   2    Debt securities availab
le for sale:
                     Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
    1,926
   -         2,480
   -      Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    16,392
   2         12,702
   1      Mortgage
-backed securities:
                       Federal agencies
    75,875
   7         87,197
   8        Residential and commercial
    33,191
   3         41,618
   4          Total mortgage
-backed securities
    109,066
   10         128,815
   12      Other debt securities (1)
    34,752
   3         32,011
   3            Total debt securities available for sale (1)
    162,136
   15         176,008
   16    Mortgages held for sale (2) 
    36,716
   3         37,416
   3    Loans held for sale (2)
    3,773
   -         6,293
   1    Loans:
                     Commercial:
                       Commercial and industrial
    149,576
   14         180,924
   16        Real estate mortgage
    98,497
   9         96,273
   9        Real estate construction
    31,286
   3         40,885
   4        Lease financi
ng    13,451
   1         14,751
   1        Foreign
        29,726
   3         30,661
   3          Total commercial
    322,536
   30         363,494
   33      Consumer:
                       Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    235,568
   22         238,359
   22        Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    101,537
   10         106,957
   10        Credit card
    22,375
   2         23,357
   2        Other revolving credit and installment
    88,585
   8         90,666
   8          Total consume
r    448,065
   42         459,339
   42            Total loans (2)
    770,601
   72         822,833
   75    Other
    5,849
   1         6,113
   1              Total earning assets
 $  1,071,956
   100  %   $  1,096,624
   100  % Funding sources
                   Deposits:
                     Interest
-bearing checking
 $  60,941
   6  %   $  70,179
   6  %   Market rate and other savings
    416,877
   39         351,892
   32      Savings certificates
    87,133
   8         140,197
   13      Other time deposits
    14,654
   1         20,459
   2      Deposits in foreign offices
    55,097
   5         53,166
   5          Total interest
-bearing deposits
    634,702
   59         635,893
   58    Short
-term borrowings
    46,824
   4         51,972
   5    Long
-term deb
t    185,426
   18         231,801
   21    Other liabilities
    6,863
   1         4,904
   -          Total interest
-bearing liabilities
    873,815
   82         924,570
   84    Portion of noninterest
-bearing funding sources
    198,141
   18         172,054
   16            Total funding sources
 $  1,071,956
   100  %   $  1,096,624
   100  % Noninterest
-earning assets
                   Cash and due from banks
 $  17,618
           19,218
      Goodwill
    24,824
           23,997
      Other
    112,540
           122,515
                Total noninterest
-earning assets
 $  154,982
           165,730
      Noninterest
-bearing funding sources 
                   Deposits
 $  183,008
           171,712
      Other liabilities
    47,877
           48,193
      Total equi
ty    122,238
           117,879
      Noninterest
-bearing funding sources used to fund earning assets
    (198,141)
          (172,054)
               Net noninterest
-bearing funding sources
 $  154,982
           165,730
                  Total assets
 $  1,22
6,938
           1,262,354
                                                                      (1)
 Includes certain preferred securities.
   (2)
 Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories.
   41 Earnings Performance 
(continued)
    Table 5: 
 Average Balances, Yields an
d Rates Paid (Taxable
-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)(3)
                            2010
             2009                           Interest
           Interest
                 Average
 Yields/
     income/
   Average
 Yields/
     income/
  (in millions)
   balance
 rates
     expense
   balance
 rates
     expense
  Earning assets
 Federal funds sold, securities purchased under
   resale agreements and other short
-term investments
 $  62,961
   0.36
  % $  230     26,869
   0.56
  % $  150   Trading assets
    29,920
   3.75
       1,121
     21,092
   4.48
       944   Debt securities available for sale (4):
                            Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
    1,926
   3.24
       61     2,480
   2.83
       69     Securities of U.S. states and political 
subdivisions
    16,392
   6.09
       980     12,702
   6.42
       840     Mortgage
-backed securities:
                              Federal agencies
    75,875
   5.14
       3,697
     87,197
   5.45
       4,591
       Residential and commercial
    33,191
   10.67       3,396
     41,618
   9.09
       4,150
         Total mortgage
-backed securities
    109,066
   6.84
       7,093
     128,815
   6.73
       8,741
     Other debt securities (5)
    34,752
   6.45
       2,102
     32,011
   7.16
       2,291
           Total d
ebt securities available for sale (5)
    162,136
   6.63
       10,236
     176,008
   6.73
       11,941
   Mortgages held for sale (6)
    36,716
   4.73
       1,736
     37,416
   5.16
       1,930
   Loans held for sale (6)
    3,773
   2.67
       101     6,293
   2.90
       183   Loans:
   Commercial:
     Commercial and industrial
    149,576
   4.80
       7,186
     180,924
   4.22
       7,643
       Real estate mortgage
    98,497
   3.89
       3,836
     96,273
   3.50
       3,365
       Real estate construction
    31,286
   3.36
       1,051
     40,885
   2.91
       1,190
       Lease financing
    13,451
   9.21
       1,239
     14,751
   9.32
       1,375
       Foreign
    29,726
   3.49
       1,037
     30,661
   3.95
       1,212
         Total commercial
    322,536
   4.45
       14,349
     363,494
   4.07
       14,785
     Consumer:
                              Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    235,568
   5.18
       12,206
     238,359
   5.45
       12,992
       Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    101,537
   4.4
5       4,519
     106,957
   4.76
       5,089
       Credit card
    22,375
   13.35
       2,987
     23,357
   12.16
       2,841
       Other revolving credit and installment
    88,585
   6.49
       5,747
     90,666
   6.56
       5,952
         Total consumer
    448,065
   5.68
       25,459
     459,339
   5.85
       26,874
           Total loans (6)
    770,601
   5.17
       39,808
     822,833
   5.06
       41,659
   Other
    5,849
   3.56
       207     6,113
   3.05
       186             Total earning assets
 $  1,071,
956
   5.02
  % $  53,439
     1,096,624
   5.19
  % $  56,993
   Funding sources
                          Deposits:
   Interest
-bearing checking
 $  60,941
   0.12
  % $  72     70,179
   0.14
  % $  100     Market rate and other savings
    416,877
   0.26
       1,088
     351,892
   0.39
       1,375
     Savings certificates
    87,133
   1.43
       1,247
     140,197
   1.24
       1,738
     Other time deposits
    14,654
   2.07
       302     20,459
   2.03
       415     Deposits in foreign offices
    55,097
   0.22
       123     53,166
   0.27
       146       Total interest
-bearing deposits
    634,702
   0.45
       2,832
     635,893
   0.59
       3,774
   Short
-term borrowings
    46,824
   0.22
       106     51,972
   0.44
       231   Long
-term debt
    185,426
   2.64
       4,888
     231,801
   2.50
       5,786
   Other liabilities
    6,863
   3.31
       227     4,904
   3.50
       172       Total interest
-bearing liabilities
    873,815
   0.92
       8,053
     924,570
   1.08
       9,963
   Portion of noninterest
-bearing funding 
sources
    198,141
   -       -     172,054
   -       -             Total funding sources
 $  1,071,956
   0.76
       8,053
     1,096,624
   0.91
       9,963
   Net interest margin and net interest income
                            on a taxable
-equivalent ba
sis (7)
      4.26
  % $  45,386
       4.28
  % $  47,030
   Noninterest
-earning assets
 Cash and due from banks
 $  17,618
             19,218
           Goodwill
    24,824
             23,997
           Other (8)
    112,540
             122,515
                     Total noninterest
-earning assets
 $  154,982
             165,730
           Noninterest
-bearing funding sources 
                          Deposits
 $  183,008
             171,712
           Other liabilities
    47,877
             48,193
           Tota
l equity
    122,238
             117,879
           Noninterest
-bearing funding sources used to
   fund earning assets
    (198,141)
            (172,054)
                    Net noninterest
-bearing funding sources
 $  154,982
             165,730
                       Total assets
 $  1,226,938
             1,262,354
                                                                                         (1)
 Because the Wachovia acquisition was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia's assets and liabilities are in
cluded in average balances, and Wachovia's results are reflected 
in interest income/expense beginning in 2009.
 (2)
 Our average prime rate was 3.25%, 3.25%, 5.09%, 8.05%, and 7.96% for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The aver
age three
-month Lond
on Interbank 
Offered Rate (LIBOR) was 0.34%, 0.69%, 2.93%, 5.30%, and 5.20% for the same years, respectively.
 (3)
 Interest rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset a
nd liability categori
es.
 (4)
 Yields and rates are based on interest income/expense amounts for the period, annualized based on the accrual basis for the r
espective accounts. The average balance 
amounts include the effects of any unrealized gain or loss marks but those marks carrie
d in other comprehensive income are not included in yield determination of affected
 earning assets. Thus
 yields are based on amortized cost balances computed on a settlement date basis.
                             42                                                        2008             2007             2006             Interest
           Interest
           Interest
    Average
 Yields/
     income/
   Average
 Yields/
     income/
   Average
 Yields/
     income/
    balance
 rates
     expense
   balance
 rates
     expense
   balance
 rates
     expense
                                                                            $  5,293
   1.71
  % $  90     4,468
   4.99
  % $  223     5,515
   4.80
  % $  265      4,971
   3.80
       189     4,291
   4.37
       188     4,958
   4.95
       245                                           1,083
   3.84
       41     848   4.26
       36     875   4.36
       39      6,918
   6.83
       501     4,740
   7.37
       342     3,192
   7.98
       245                                           44,777
   5.97
       2,623
     38,592
   6.10
       2,328
     36,691
   6.04
       2,206
      20,749
   6.04
       1,412
     6,548
   6.12
       399     6,640
   6.57
       430      65,526
   5.99
       4,035
     45,140
   6.10
       2,727
     43,331
   6.12
       2,636
      12,818
   7.17
       1,000
     6,295
   7.52
       477     6,204
   7.10
       439      86,345
   6.22
       5,577
     57,023
   6.34
       3,582
     53,602
   6.31
       3,359
      25,656
   6.13
       1,573
     33,066
   6.50
       2,150
     42,855
   6.41
       2,746
      837   5.69
       48     896   7.76
       70     630   7.40
       47                                                                                98,620
   6.12
       6,034
     77,965
   8.17
       6,367
     65,720
   8.13
       5,340
      41,659
   5.80
       2,416
     32,722
   7.38
       2,414
     29,344
   7.32
       2,148
      19,453
   5.08
       988     16,934
   7.80
       1,321
     14,810
   7.94
       1,175
      7,141
   5.62
       401     5,921
   5.84
       346     5,4
37   5.72
       311      7,127
   10.50
       748     7,321
   11.68
       855     6,343
   12.39
       786      174,000
   6.08
       10,587
     140,863
   8.02
       11,303
     121,654
   8.02
       9,760
                                           75,116
   6.67
       5,008
     61,527
   7.25
       4,463
     57,509
   7.27
       4,182
      75,375
   6.55
       4,934
     72,075
   8.12
       5,851
     64,255
   7.98
       5,126
      19,601
   12.13
       2,378
     15,874
   13.58
       2,155
     12,571
   13.29
       1,670
      54,368
   8.72
       4,744
     54,436
   9.71
       5,285
     50,922
   9.60
       4,889
      224,460
   7.60
       17,064
     203,912
   8.71
       17,754
     185,257
   8.57
       15,867
      398,460
   6.94
       27,651
     344,775
   8.43
       29,057
     306,911
   8.35
       25,627
      1,920
   4.73
       91     1,402
   5.07
       71     1,357
   4.97
       68   $  523,482
   6.69
  % $  35,219
     445,921
   7.93
  % $  35,341
     415,828
   7.79
  % $  32,357
                                                                             $  5,650
   1.12
  % $  64     5,057
   3.16
  % $  160     4,302
   2.86
  % $  123      166,691
   1.32
       2,195
     147,939
   2.78
       4,105
     134,248
   2.40
       3,225
      39,481
   3.08
       1,215
     40,48
4   4.38
       1,773
     32,355
   3.91
       1,266
      6,656
   2.83
       187     8,937
   4.87
       435     32,168
   4.99
       1,607
      47,578
   1.81
       860     36,761
   4.57
       1,679
     20,724
   4.60
       953      266,056
   1.70
       4,52
1     239,178
   3.41
       8,152
     223,797
   3.21
       7,174
      65,826
   2.25
       1,478
     25,854
   4.81
       1,245
     21,471
   4.62
       992      102,283
   3.70
       3,789
     93,193
   5.18
       4,824
     84,035
   4.91
       4,124
      -   -       -     -   -       -     -   -       -      434,165
   2.25
       9,788
     358,225
   3.97
       14,221
     329,303
   3.73
       12,290
      89,317
   -       -     87,696
   -       -     86,525
   -       -   $  523,482
   1.86
       9,788
     445,921   3.19
       14,221
     415,828
   2.96
       12,290
                                             4.83
  % $  25,431
       4.74
  % $  21,120
       4.83
  % $  20,067
                                        $  11,175
             11,806
             12,466
              13,353
             11,957
             11,114
              56,386
             51,068
             46,615
           $  80,914
             74,831
             70,195
                                                $  87,820
             88,907
             89,117
              28,658
             26,287
             24,221
              53,753
             47,333
             43,382
                                                   (89,317)
            (87,696)
            (86,525)
          $  80,91
4             74,831
             70,195
           $  604,396
             520,752
             486,023
                                                                                    (5)
 Includes certain preferred securities.
 (6)
 Nonaccrual loans and related 
income are included in their respective loan categories.
 (7)
 Includes taxable
-equivalent adjustments
 of $629 million, $706 million, $288 million, $146 million and $116 million for 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
 primarily related to tax
-exempt i
ncome on certain loans and securities. The federal statutory tax rate 
utilized 
was 35% for the periods presented.
 (8)
 See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in this Report for detail of bal
ances of other no
ninterest
-earning assets at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009.
   43 Earnings Performance 
(continued)
     Table 6 allocates the changes in net interest income on a 
taxable
-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or 
average rates for both interest
-earning assets and 
interest
-bearing liab
ilities. Because of the numerous 
simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is
 not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume 
and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either 

volume or rate are allocated 
to these categories in proportion to 

the percentage changes in average volume and average rate.
  Table 6:  Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income
                                               Year ended December 31,
                 2010 over 2009
   2009 over 2008
 (in millions)
   Volume
 Rate
 Total
   Volume
 Rate
 Total
 Increase (decrease) in interest income:
                 Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale
                   agreements and other short
-term investments
 $  148   (68)  80     156   (96)
  60  Trading assets
    349   (172)
  177     715   40   755  Debt securities available for sale:
                   Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
    (17)
  9   (8)
    41   (13)
  28    Securities of U.S. states and
 political subdivisions
    190   (50)
  140     369   (30)
  339    Mortgage
-backed securities:
                     Federal agencies
    (622)
  (272)
  (894)
    2,229
   (261)
  1,968
      Residential and commercial
    (1,113)
  359   (754)
    1,823
   915   2,738        Total mortgage
-backed securities
    (1,735)
  87   (1,648)
    4,052
   654   4,706
    Other debt securities
    123   (312)
  (189)
    1,292
   (1)
  1,291
          Total debt securities available for sale
    (1,439)
  (266)
  (1,705)
    5,754
   610   6,364
  Mortgages held for sale 
    (35)
  (159)
  (194)
    635   (278)
  357  Loans held for sale 
    (69)
  (13)
  (82)
    169   (34)
  135  Loans:
                   Commercial:
                     Commercial and industrial
    (1,425)
  968   (457)
    3,9
04   (2,295)
  1,609
      Real estate mortgage
    81   390   471     3,278
   (2,329)
  949      Real estate construction
    (306)
  167   (139)
    1,140
   (938)
  202      Lease financing
    (120)
  (16)
  (136)
    602   372   974      Foreign
    (36)
  (139)
  (175)
    1,176
   (712)
  464        Total commercial
    (1,806)
  1,370
   (436)
    10,100
   (5,902)
  4,198
    Consumer:
                     Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    (150)
  (636)
  (786)
    9,055
   (1,071)
  7,984
      Real estate 1
-4 fami
ly junior lien mortgage
    (249)
  (321)
  (570)
    1,727
   (1,572)
  155      Credit card
    (123)
  269   146     457   6   463      Other revolving credit and installment
    (140)
  (65)
  (205)
    2,594
   (1,386)
  1,208
        Total consumer
    (662)
  (753)
  (1,415)
    13,833
   (4,023)
  9,810
          Total loans
    (2,468)
  617   (1,851)
    23,933
   (9,925)
  14,008
  Other
    (8)
  29   21     137   (42)
  95            Total increase (decrease) in interest income
    (3,522)
  (32)
  (3,554)
    31,499
   (9,
725)
  21,774
  Increase (decrease) in interest expense:
                 Deposits:
                   Interest
-bearing checking
    (13)
  (15)
  (28)
    136   (100)
  36    Market rate and other savings
    224   (511)
  (287)
    1,396
   (2,216)
  (820)
   Savi
ngs certificates
    (729)
  238   (491)
    1,601
   (1,078)
  523    Other time deposits
    (121)
  8   (113)
    294   (66)
  228    Deposits in foreign offices
    5   (28)
  (23)
    91   (805)
  (714)
     Total interest
-bearing deposits
    (634)
  (308)
  (942)
    3,518
   (4,265)
  (747)
 Short
-term borrowings
    (21)
  (104)
  (125)
    (259)
  (988)
  (1,247)
 Long
-term debt
    (1,209)
  311   (898)
    3,544
   (1,547)
  1,997
  Other liabilities
    65   (10)
  55     172   -   172        Total increase (decrease) in i
nterest expense
    (1,799)
  (111)
  (1,910)
    6,975
   (6,800)
  175  Increase (decrease) in net interest income
                   on a taxable
-equivalent basis
 $  (1,723)
  79   (1,644)
    24,524
   (2,925)
  21,599
  44    Noninterest Income
                       Table 7:  Noninterest Income
                                       Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Service charges on
           deposit accounts
 $  4,916
   5,741
   3,190
  Trust and investment fees:
           Trust, i
nvestment and IRA fees
    4,038
   3,588
   2,161
    Commissions and all other fees
    6,896
   6,147
   763      Total trust and
               investment fees
    10,934
   9,735
   2,924
  Card fees
    3,652
   3,683
   2,336
  Other fees:
           Cash netw
ork fees
    260   231   188    Charges and fees on loans
    1,690
   1,801
   1,037
    All other fees
    2,040
   1,772
   872      Total other fees
    3,990
   3,804
   2,097
  Mortgage banking:
           Servicing income, net 
    3,340
   5,791
   1,233
    Net gains on mortgage loan
             origination/sales activities
    6,397
   6,237
   1,292
      Total mortgage banking 
    9,737
   12,028
   2,525
  Insurance
    2,126
   2,126
   1,830
  Net gains from trading activities
    1,648
   2,674
   275  Net gain
s (losses) on debt
           securities available for sale
    (324)
  (127)
  1,037
  Net gains (losses) from
           equity investments
    779   185   (757)
 Operating leases
    815   685   427  All other
    2,180
   1,828
   850              Total
 $  40,453
   42,362
   16,734
                        Noninterest income of $40.5 billion represented 47% of revenue 
for 2010 compared with $42.4 billion or, 48%, for 2009. The 

decrease from 2009 was primarily 
the net result of an increase in 

trust and investme
nt fees to 13% of 2010 revenues from 11% for 
2009, offset by the decrease in mortgage banking to 11% of 2010 

revenues from 14% for 2009.
   Our service charges on deposit accounts decreased in 2010 by 
$825 million from 2009, although the deposit account por
tfolio 
increased for the year. This decrease was related to
 regulatory 
changes to debit card and ATM overdraft practices announced 

by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) in fourth quarter 2009. In 

third quarter 2009, we also announced policy changes to help 

customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. The 

combination of these changes reduced our 2010 fee revenue by 

approximately $810 million.
  We earn trust, investment and IRA (Individual Retirement 
Account) fees from managing and administering assets, 

inc
luding mutual funds, corporate trust, personal trust, 
employee benefit trust and agency assets. At December 31, 2010, 

these assets totaled $2.1
 trillion, up 11% from $1.9
 trillion at 
December 31, 2009. Trust, investment and IRA fees are largely 

based on a 
tiered scale relative to the market value of the assets 

under management or administration. The fees increased to 

$4.0
 billion in 2010 from $3.6 billion a year ago.
  We receive commissions and other fees for providing services 
to full
-service and discount 
brokerage customers. These fees 

increased to $6.9
 billion in 2010 from $6.1
 billion a year ago. 
These fees include transactional commissions, which are based 

on the number of transactions executed at the customer™s 

direction, and asset
-based fees, which ar
e based on the market 
value of the customer™s assets. Brokerage client assets totaled 

$1.2
 trillion at December 31, 2010, up 6% from a year ago. 
Commissions and other fees also include fees from investment 

banking activities including equity and bond under
writing. 
  Card fees were $3.7
 billion in 2010, essentially flat from 
2009. 
Legislative and regulatory changes enacted in 2010 caused 
a reduction in card fee income, which was offset by growth in 

purchase volume driven by improvements in the economy. The 

effect of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and 
Disclosure Act of 2009 (the Card Act) on card fees is fully 

reflected in our 2010 results.
  Mortgage banking noninterest income
 is generated by 
servicing activities and loan origination/sales activ
ities. This 
income was $9.7
 billion in 2010, compared with $12.0 billion for 
2009. The reduction in mortgage banking noninterest income 

was primarily driven by a $2.5 billion decline in net servicing 

income, partially offset by a $160 million increase in n
et gains on 
mortgage origination/sales. 
  Net servicing income includes both changes in the fair value 
of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) during the period as well as 

changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to 

hedge the MSRs. Net servic
ing income for 2010 included a 
$1.5
 billion net MSR valuation gain that was recorded to 
earnings ($3.0
 billion decrease in the fair value of the MSRs 
offset by a $4.5
 billion hedge gain) and for 2009 included a 
$5.3
 billion net MSR valuation gain ($1.5
 billion decrease in the 
fair value of MSRs offset by a $6.8
 billion hedge gain). The 
$3.8
 billion decline in the net MSR valuation gain results for 
2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to a decline in 

hedge carry income. See the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Mortga
ge 
Banking Interest Rate and Market Riskﬂ section of this Report 

for a detailed discussion of our MSRs risks and hedging 

approach. Our portfolio of loans serviced for others was 

$1.84
 trillion at December 31, 2010, and $1.88
 trillion at 
December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, the ratio of MSRs to 

related loans serviced for others was 0.86%, compared with 

0.91% at December 31, 2009.
  Income from loan origination/sale activities was $6.4 billion 
in 2010 compared with $6.2 billion for 2009. The slight increas
e in 2010 was driven by higher margins on loan originations, offset 

by lower loan origination volume and higher provision for loan 

repurchase losses. Residential real estate originations were 

$386
 billion in 2010 compared with $420
 billion a year ago and 
mortgage applications were $620 billion in 2010 compared with 
$651 billion in 2009. The 1
-4 family first mortgage unclosed 
pipeline was $73
 billion at December 31, 2010, and $57
 billion at 
December 31, 2009. For additional detail, see the ﬁRisk 

Management 
Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market 
Riskﬂ section and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting 

Policies), Note
 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note
 16 (Fair 
Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
 45 Earnings Performance 
(continued)
     Net gains on
 mortgage loan origination/sales activities 
include the cost of any additions to the mortgage repurchase 
liability. Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties 

based on standard representations and warranties and early 

payment default clauses in mort
gage sale contracts. Additions to 
the mortgage repurchase liability that were charged against net 

gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities during 2010 

totaled $1.6 billion ($927 million for 2009), of which $144 

million ($302 million for 2009) wa
s related to our estimate of 
loss content associated with loan sales during the year and $1.5 

billion ($625 million for 2009) was for subsequent increases in 

estimated losses on prior year™s loan sales because of the current 

economic environment. For addit
ional information about 
mortgage loan repurchases, see the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Credit 
Risk Management 
Œ Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase 
Lossesﬂ section in this Report.
  Income from trading activities was $1.6
 billion in 2010, down 
from $2.7 billion a
 year ago. This decrease reflects a return to a 
more normal trading environment from a year ago as well as a 

continued reduction in risk levels while we continue to prioritize 

support for our customer
-related activities.
  Net gains on debt and equity secur
ities totaled $455 million 
for 2010 and $58 million for 2009, after other
-than
-temporary 
impairment (OTTI) write
-downs of $940 million for 2010 and 
$1.7 billion for 2009. 
  Noninterest income of $42.4
 billion in 2009 represented 
48% of revenue, up from $16
.7 billion (40%) in 2008. The 
increase in noninterest income as a percentage of revenue was 

due to a higher percentage of trust and investment fees (11% in 

2009, up from 7% in 2008) with the addition of Wells
 Fargo 
Advisors (formerly Wachovia Securities) r
etail brokerage 
business, Wachovia wealth management and retirement, and 

reinsurance businesses, and also due to strong mortgage banking 

results, primarily from legacy Wells
 Fargo (14% in 2009, up 
from 6% in 2008).
                        Noninterest E
xpense
             Table 8:  Noninterest Expense
                   Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Salaries
 $  13,869
   13,757
   8,260
  Commission and incentive 
           compensation
    8,692
   8,021
   2,676
  Employe
e benefits
    4,651
   4,689
   2,004
  Equipment
    2,636
   2,506
   1,357
  Net occupancy
    3,030
   3,127
   1,619
  Core deposit and other intangibles
    2,199
   2,577
   186  FDIC and other deposit
           assessments
    1,197
   1,849
   120  Outside p
rofessional services
    2,370
   1,982
   847  Contract services
    1,642
   1,088
   407  Foreclosed assets
    1,537
   1,071
   414  Operating losses 
    1,258
   875   142  Outside data processing
    1,046
   1,027
   480  Postage, stationery and supplies
    944   933   556  Travel and entertainment
    783   575   447  Advertising and promotion
    630   572   378  Telecommunications
    596   610   321  Insurance
    464   845   725  Operating leases
    109   227   389  All other
    2,803
   2,689
   1,270
    Total
 $  50,456
   49,020
   22,598
              Noninterest expense increased $1.4 billion (3%) in 2010 over 

2009, primarily due to merger integration costs, Wells Fargo 

Financial restructuring costs and a charitable donation to the 

Wells Fargo Found
ation. The increase in 2009 over 2008 was 
predominantly due to the acquisition of Wachovia, increased 

staffing and other costs related to problem loan modifications 

and workouts, special deposit assessments and operating losses.
  Merger integration costs t
otaled $1.9 billion in 2010 and 
$1.1
 billion in 2009, and primarily contributed to the increases 
in outside professional and contract services for both years. The 

acquisition of Wachovia resulted in an expanded geographic 

platform in our banking businesses
 and added capabilities in 

businesses such as retail brokerage, asset management and 

investment banking. As part of our integration investment to 

enhance both the short
- and long
-term benefits to our 
customers, we added platform team members in the Eastern
 market to align Wachovia™s banking stores with Wells
 Fargo™s 
sales and service model. We completed the second year of our 

merger integration, converting 749 Wachovia stores in Alabama, 

Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Mississippi, 

Nevada, T
ennessee and Texas. We migrated major processing 
systems for credit card, mortgage, trust, and mutual funds. We 

expect to substantially complete our integration of Wachovia by 

the end of 2011.
  In July 2010, we announced the restructuring of our Wells 
Farg
o Financial consumer finance division, including the closing 
of 638 Wells Fargo Financial stores, realigning this business into 

other Wells Fargo business units and transitioning employees 

into other parts of our organization. The restructuring costs 

total
ed $161 million, predominantly for severance and store 
closures.
 46     Commission and incentive compensation expense increased 
proportionately more than salaries in both 2010 and 2009, due 
to higher revenues generated by businesses with revenue
-based 
compensati
on, including the retail securities, brokerage and 
mortgage businesses.
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and other 
deposit assessments decreased in 2010 from 2009, 

predominantly due to a midyear 2009 FDIC special assessment 

of $565 million.
  Problem loans and foreclosures increased workout
-related 
salaries and foreclosure costs in both 2010 and 2009. Workout
-related costs were influenced in both years by the higher volume 

of mortgage loan modifications driven by both federal and our 

own proprie
tary loan modification programs designed to help 
customers stay in their homes. Foreclosure costs have been 

affected by the high volume of foreclosed properties and the 

length of time the properties remained in inventory. During 

2010, we began to see a dec
line in nonperforming loans and 
other indications of improvement in credit quality.
  Operating losses increased in 2010 predominantly due to 
additional litigation accruals.
  We continued to support our communities by making a 
$400
 million charitable contri
bution to the Wells Fargo 
Foundation in 2010, covering three years of estimated future 

funding.
  Income Tax Expense
 The 2010 annual effective tax rate was 33.9% compared with 
30.3% in
 2009 and 18.5% 
in 2008. The increase in 2010 was
 primarily 
due
 to the n
ew health care legislation and fewer 
favorable settlements with tax authorities.
 The increase in 2009 
was primarily 
due
 to higher pre
-tax earnings and increased tax 
expense (with a comparable increase in interest
 income) 
associated with purchase accounting
 for leveraged leases,
 partially offset by higher levels of tax exempt income, tax credits 

and the impact of changes in our liability for uncertain tax 

positions. We recognized a net tax benefit of approximately 

$150
 million and $200 million during the fou
rth quarter and 
year
-ended December 31, 2009, respectively, primarily related to 
changes in our uncertain tax positions, due to federal and state 

income tax settlements.
  Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting 
guidance that changed the way no
ncontrolling interests
 are 
presented in the income statement such that the consolidated 

income statement includes amounts
 from both Wells 
Fargo
 interests and the noncontrolling interests. As a result, our 
effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income
 tax expense by 
income before income tax expense
 less the net income from 
noncontrolling interests.
 47 Earnings Performance 
(continued)
    Operating Segment Results
 We define our operating segments by product and customer. In 
first quarter 2010, we conformed certain funding and allocation 

meth
odologies of Wachovia to those of Wells Fargo; in addition 
integration expense related to mergers other than the Wachovia 

merger is now included in the segment results. 
In fourth quarter 

2010, we aligned certain lending businesses into Wholesale 

Banking fr
om Community Banking to reflect our previously 
announced restructuring of Wells Fargo Financial.
 Prior periods 
have been revised to reflect these changes. Table 9 and the 

following discussion present our results by operating segment. 

For a more complete de
scription of our operating segments, 
including additional financial information and the underlying 

management accounting process, see Note
 23 (Operating 
Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report.
  Table 9:  Operating Segment Results 
Œ Highlights
                       Year ended December 31,
                 Wealth, Brokerage
 (in billions)
   Community Banking
   Wholesale Banking
   and Retirement
    2010
   2009     2010
   2009     2010
   2009  Revenue
 $  54.7
   60.5
     22.2
   20.6
     11.7
   10.8  Net income
    7.1
   8.9
     5.8
   3.9
     1.0
   0.5
  Average loans
    530.1
   552.7
     230.5
   260.2
     43.0
   45.7
  Average core deposits
    536.4
   552.8
     170.0
   147.3
     121.2
   114.2
                      Community Banking
 offers a comp
lete line of diversified 
financial products and services for consumers and small 

businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 

39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 

50 states and D.C. through its Regional Banking 
and Wells Fargo 

Home Mortgage business units. 
  Community Banking reported net income of $7.1 billion and 
revenue of $54.7 billion in 2010. Revenue declined from 2009 

driven primarily by a decrease in mortgage banking income 

compared with a record year in 
2009 (originations of 

$420
 billion in 2009 compared with $384 billion in 2010), as 
well as lower deposit service charges due to changes to 

Regulation E and the planned reduction in certain liquidating 

loan portfolios. Core deposits declined due to planned 

certificates of deposit (CD) run
-off; however, we continued to 
grow low cost deposits. We saw strong growth in the number of 

consumer and business checking accounts (up 7.5% and 4.8%, 

respectively, from December 31, 2009). Noninterest expense was 

flat from
 2009, with Wells Fargo Financial restructuring costs 
and higher charitable contributions offset by continued expense 

management and realization of merger synergies. To benefit our 

customers we continued to add platform team members in 

regional banking™s E
astern markets as we aligned Wachovia 

banking stores with the Wells Fargo sales and service model. 

The provision for credit losses decreased $4.1 billion from 2009 

and credit quality indicators in most of our consumer and 

commercial loan portfolios were ei
ther stable or continued to 
improve. Net credit losses declined in almost all portfolios and 

we released $1.4 billion in reserves in 2010 compared with a 

$2.2 billion reserve build in 2009. 
  Wholesale Banking
 provides financial solutions across the 
U.S. a
nd globally to middle market and large corporate 
customers with annual revenue generally in excess of 

$20
 million.
 Products and business
es include commercial 
banking, investment banking and capital markets, securities 

investment, government and institution
al banking, corporate 

banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, capital 
finance, international, insurance, real estate capital markets, 

commercial mortgage servicing, corporate trust, equipment 

finance, asset backed finance, and asset managemen
t.  On the strength of increasing credit demands from middle 
market and international businesses, solid investment banking 

and capital markets performance, and a modest rebound in 

commercial mortgages, Wholesale Banking generated earnings 

of $5.8 billion, 
up 49% from 2009, with revenue of $22.2 billion, 

up 8% from 2009.
 Growth in core deposits, up 15% from 2009, 
and the related increase in fees and commissions, helped offset 

the impact of lower loan balances in 2010. Total noninterest 

expense increased 5% a
s continued focus on expense 
management helped keep the rate of expense growth below the 

rate of revenue growth, resulting in an overall operating 

efficiency ratio of 51% versus 52% in 2009. Loan loss rates also 

improved from 2009 levels, which allowed for
 a $561
 million 
release of the allowance for loan losses in 2010.
  Our financial results in 2010 were driven by the performance 
of our many diverse businesses, including the real estate capital 

markets group, which re
-entered the commercial MBS 

securitizat
ion market with its first deal in three years; 
investment banking, which helped drive 
more than $172 million 

of growth in trust and investment fees; c
ommercial mortgage 
servicing, which capitalized on
 its strong competitive position
 to 
win the servicing ri
ghts on more than 70% of new commercial 
MBS deals; and commercial real estate, where re
-pricing efforts 
lifted loan portfolio yields 49 basis points to add $180 million in 

revenue growth.
  Wholesale Banking
™s performance was also supported by 
additional ef
ficiencies created by the merger with Wachovia. Key 
achievements included funds management group 

consolidations, leasing and equipment finance system 

migrations, 
Commercial Electronic Office
® (CEO
®) access for 
Wachovia Global Connect customers, and buildin
g of treasury 
product solutions to prepare for full customer migrations in 

2011
.  48    Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
 provides a full range of 
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach 
to meet each client™s needs. Wealth Management pro
vides 
affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of 

wealth management solutions including financial planning, 

private banking, credit, investment management and trust. 

Family Wealth meets the unique needs of the ultra high net 

worth customer
s. Brokerage serves customers™ advisory, 
brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full
-service brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a 

national leader in providing institutional retirement and trust 

services (including 401(
k) and pension plan record keeping) for 
businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and 

reinsurance services for the life insurance industry.
  Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned net income of 
$1.0 billion in 2010. Revenue of $11.7 billion
 included a mix of 
brokerage commissions, asset
-based fees and net interest 
income. Net interest income growth was dampened by the 

continued low short
-term interest rate environment. Equity 
market gains helped drive growth in fee income. 
During 2010 

client
 assets grew 6% from a year ago, including managed 
account asset growth of 20%. Deposit balances grew 10% during 

2010
. Expenses increased slightly from the prior year due to 
growth in broker commissions partially offset by the realization 

of merger synergi
es during the year and the loss reserve for the 
auction rate securities (ARS) legal settlement in 2009. The 

wealth, brokerage and retirement businesses have strengthened 

partnerships across the Company, working with Community 

Banking and Wholesale Banking 
to provide financial solutions 

for clients.
  During 2010, our total assets
 grew 1%, funded by core deposit 
growth of 2% and internal capital generation, partially offset by a 

reduction in our long
-term borrowings. As a result of c
ontinued 
soft loan demand, our loans decreased 3% and most of our asset 

growth was therefore in more liquid earning assets. However, 

the strength
 of our business model continued to produce high 
rates of internal capital generation as reflected in our impro
ved 
capital ratios.
 Tier 1 capital increased to 11.
16% as a percentage 
of total risk
-weighted assets
, total capital to 15.
01%, Tier 1 
leverage to 9.
19% and Tier 1 common equity to 8.
30% at 
December 31, 2010, up from 9.
25%, 13.
26%, 7.
87% and 6.
46%, 
respecti
vely, at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010
, core 
deposits funded 105% of the loan portfolio, and we have 

significant capacity to add 
loans and 
higher yielding long
-term 
MBS 
to generate
 future revenue and earnings growth.
 Balance Sheet Analysis
   The following discussion pro
vides additional information 
about the major components of our balance sheet. 
Information 
about changes in our asset mix and about our c
apital is 
included
 in the 
ﬁEarnings Performance 
Œ Net Interest Incomeﬂ and 
ﬁCapital Managementﬂ section
s of this Report.
  Securities Available for Sale
                                     Table 10:  Securities Available for Sale 
Œ Summary
                                     December 31,
        2010
     2009          Net
       Net
           unrealized
 Fair
     unreal
ized
 Fair
 (in millions)
   Cost
 gain
 value
   Cost
 gain
 value
 Debt securities available for sale
 $  160,071
   7,394
   167,465
     162,314
   4,804
   167,118
  Marketable equity securities
    4,258
   931   5,189
     4,749
   843   5,592
    Total securities a
vailable for sale
 $  164,329
   8,325
   172,654
     167,063
   5,647
   172,710
                       Table 10 presents a summary of our securities available
-for
-sale portfolio. Securities available for sale consist of both debt 

and marketable equity secur
ities. We hold debt securities 
available for sale primarily for liquidity, interest rate risk 

management and long
-term yield enhancement. Accordingly, 
this portfolio consists primarily of very liquid, high
-quality 
federal agency debt and privately issued M
BS. The total net 
unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $8.3
 billion 
at December 31, 2010, up from net unrealized gains of 

$5.6
 billion at December 31, 2009, due to a general decline in 
long
-term yields and narrowing of credit spreads.
  We
 analyze securities for OTTI quarterly, or more often if a 
potential loss
-triggering event occurs.
 Of the $692 million OTTI 
write
-downs in 2010, $672 million related to debt securities and 
$20
 million to equity securities. For a discussion of our OTTI 
acco
unting policies and underlying considerations and analysis 
see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Œ Securities) and Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial 

Statements in this Report.
  At December 31, 2010
, debt securities
 availa
ble for sale 
included $19
 billion of municipal bonds, of which 84% were 
rated ﬁA
-ﬂ or better, based on external, and in some cases 
internal, ratings.
 Additionally, s
ome of these bonds are 
guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. These bonds are 

predominan
tly investment grade and were generally 
underwritten in accordance with our own investment standards 

prior to the determination to purchase, without relying on the 

bond insurer™s guarantee in making the investment decision. 

These municipal bonds will conti
nue to be monitored as part of 
49 Balance Sheet Analysis 
(continued)
    our on
-going impairment analysis of our securities available for 
sale.
  The weighted
-average expected maturity of debt securities
 available for sale was 6.1
 years at December 31, 2010. Because 
69% of this portfolio is MBS, th
e expected remaining maturity 
may differ from contractual maturity because borrowers 
generally have the right to prepay obligations before the 

underlying mortgages mature. The estimated effect of a 200 

basis point increase or decrease in interest rates on the fair value 

and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS available for 

sale are shown in Table 11.
    Table 11:  Mortgage
-Backed Securities
                           Expected
           Net
 remaining
         Fair
 unrealized
 maturity
 (in billions)
   value
 gain (loss)
 (in years)
 At December 31, 2010
 $  115.8
   5.9
   4.5
  At December 31, 2010,
           assuming a 200 basis point:
           Increase in interest rates
    105.8
   (4.1)
  5.7
    Decrease in interest rates
    124.3
   14.4
   3.3
                 See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial 
Statements in this Report for securities available for sale by 

security type.
  Loan Portfolio
                                   Table 12:  Loan Portfolios
                                       December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008   2007   2006  Commercial 
 $  322,058
   336,465
   389,964
   160,282
   128,731
  Consumer
    435,209
   446,305
   474,866
   221,913
   190,385
    Total loans
 $  757,267
   782,770
   864,830
   382,19
5   319,116
                        Balances decreased during 2010 for nearly all types of loans as 

demand remained soft in response to economic conditions. Non
-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios decreased by 

$26.3
 billion from 2009. Table 12 prov
ides a breakdown by loan 
portfolio.
  A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative 
detail of average loan balances is included in Table 5 under 

ﬁEarnings 
Performance
 Œ Net Interest Incomeﬂ earlier in this 
Report. Year
-end balances and other loan related information 
are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report.
   Effective June 30, 2010, real estate construction outstanding 
balances and all other related data include certain commercial 

real estate (C
RE) secured loans acquired from Wachovia 

previously classified as real estate mortgage. Balances for 2009 

and 2008 have been revised to conform with the current 

presentation.
  Table 13 shows contractual loan maturities for selected loan 
categories and sens
itivities of those loans to changes in interest 
rates.
 50    Table 13:  Maturities for Selected Loan Categories
                                                     December 31,
            2010
     2009              After
         After
               Within
 one year
 After
     Within
 one year
 After
             one
 through
 five
     one
 through
 five
   (in millions)
   year
 five years
 years
 Total
   year
 five years
 years
 Total
 Selected loan maturities:
                         Commercial and industrial
 $  39,576
     90,497
   21,211
   151,284
     44,919
   91,951
   21,482
   158,352
    Real estate mortgage
    27,544
     44,627
   27,264
   99,435
     25,339
   42,179
   30,009
   97,527
    Real estate construction
    15,009
     9,189
   1,135
   25,333
     23,362
   12,18
8   1,428
   36,978
    Foreign
    25,087
     5,508
   2,317
   32,912
     21,266
   5,715
   2,417
   29,398
        Total selected loans
 $  107,216
     149,821
   51,927
   308,964
     114,886
   152,033
   55,336
   322,255
  Distribution of loans due
                         after one year to
                         changes in interest rates:
                           Loans at fixed
                             interest rates
     $  29,886
   14,543
         26,373
   18,921
        Loans at floating/variable
                             interest rates
        119,935
   37,384
         125,660
   36,415
          Total selected loans
     $  149,821
   51,927
         152,033
   55,336
                                  Deposits
 Deposits totaled $847.9 billion at December
 31, 2010, 
compared with $824.0
 billion at December 31, 2009. Table 14 
provides additional detail regarding deposits. Comparative 
detail of average deposit balances is provided in Table 5 under 

ﬁEarnings Performance 
Œ Net Interest Incomeﬂ earlier in this 
Report. Total core deposits were $798.2 billion at 
December
 31, 2010, up $17.5
 billion from $780.7
 billion at 
December 31, 2009. We continued to gain new deposit 

customers and deepen our relationships with existing 

customers.
  Table 14:  Deposits
                                   December 31,
               % of 
         % of 
               total
         total
   % (in millions)
    2010
  deposits
        2009  deposits
   Change
 Noninterest
-bearing
 $  191,231
   23  %   $  181,356
   22  %  5  Interest
-bea
ring checking
    63,440
   7         63,225
   8     -  Market rate and other savings
    431,883
   51         402,448
   49     7  Savings certificates
    77,292
   9         100,857
   12     (23)
 Foreign deposits (1)
    34,346
   4         32,851
   4     5    Core deposits
    798,192
   94         780,737
   95     2  Other time and savings deposits
    19,412
   2         16,142
   2     20  Other foreign deposits
    30,338
   4         27,139
   3     12      Total deposits
 $  847,942
   100  %   $  824,018
   100  %  3                            (1)
 Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits.
 51    In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial 
transactions that are not recorded in the balance sheet, 
or may 
be recorded in the balance sheet in amounts that are different 

from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. 

These transactions are designed to (1) meet the financial needs 

of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or liquidity ris
ks, 
(3) diversify our funding sources, and/or (4) optimize capital. 
 Off
-Balance Sheet Arrangements
   Off-Balance Sheet Transactions with Unconsolidated 
Entities
 We routinely
 enter into various types of on
- and off
-balance 
sheet transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which 

are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for 

a limited purpose. Historically, the majority of SPEs were 

formed in connection with securitization transactions. For 

more information on securitizations, including sales proceeds 

and cash flo
ws 
from securitizations, see Note 8
 (Securitizations 
and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
  Newly Consolidated VIE Assets and Liabilities
 Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted new consolidation 

accounting guidance and, acc
ordingly, consolidated certain 

variable interest entities (
VIEs
) that were not included in our 
consolidated financial statements at December
 31, 2009. On 
January 1, 2010, we recorded the assets and liabilities of the 

newly 
consolidated 
VIEs and 
de
recognize
d our existing 
interests in those VIEs. We also recorded a $183 million 

increase to beginning retained earnings as a cumulative effect 

adjustment and recorded a $173 million increase to other 

comprehensive income (OCI).
  Table
 15 presents the net increment
al assets recorded on 
our balance sheet by structure type upon adoption of new 

consolidation accounting guidance.
  Table 15:  Net Incremental Assets Upon Adoption of New 
Consolidation Accounting Guidance
                       Incremental
           ass
ets as of
 (in millions)
   Jan. 1, 2010
 Structure type:
     Residential mortgage loans 
Œ nonconforming (1)
 $  11,479
  Commercial paper conduit
    5,088
  Other
    2,002
    Total
 $  18,569
              (1)
 Represents certain of our residential mortgag
e loans that are not guaranteed 
by government
-sponsored entities (GSEs) ("nonconforming").
                   In accordance with the transition provisions of the new 
consolidation accounting guidance, we initially recorded newly 

consolidated VIE assets
 and liabilities 
on a basis consistent 
with our accounting for respective assets at their amortized 

cost basis, except for those VIEs for which the fair value option 

was elected. The carrying amount for loans approximate
s the 
outstanding unpaid principal b
alance, adjusted for allowance 

for loan losses. Short
-term borrowings and long
-term debt 
approximate the outstanding 
principal
 amount due to 
creditors.
  Upon adoption of new consolidation accounting guidance 
on January 1, 2010, we elected fair value option
 accounting for 
certain nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitization 

VIEs. This election requires us to recognize the VIE™s eligible 

assets and liabilities on the balance sheet at fair value with 

changes in fair value recognized in earnings.
  Suc
h eligible assets and liabilities consisted primarily of 
loans and long
-term debt, respectively. The fair value option 
was elected for those newly consolidated VIEs for which our 

interests, prior to January 1, 2010, were predominantly carried 

at fair value
 with changes in fair value recorded to earnings. 
Accordingly, the fair value option was elected to effectively 

continue fair value accounting through earnings for those 

interests. Conversely, fair value option was not elected for 

those newly consolidated 
VIEs that did not share these 

characteristics. At January 1, 2010, the fair value 
for both
 loans 
and long
-term debt for which the fair value option was elected 
was $1.0 billion 
each
. The incremental impact of electing fair 
value option (compared to not ele
cting) on the cumulative 
effect adjustment to retained earnings was an increase of 

$15
 million.
  Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements
 Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make 

payments to a guaranteed party based on an event o
r a change 
in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are 

generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities 

lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements, 

written put options, recourse obligations, residual value 

guarantees and contingent consideration.
  For more information on guarantees and certain contingent 
arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees and Legal Actions) to 

Financial Statements in this Report.
 52    Contractual Obligations
 In addition to the contractual comm
itments and arrangements 
previously described, which, depending on the nature of the 

obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we 

enter into other contractual obligations in the ordinary course 

of business, including debt issuances for the f
unding of 
operations and leases for premises and equipment.
 Table 16 summarizes these contractual obligations as of 
December 31, 2010, excluding obligations for short
-term 
borrowing arrangements and pension and postretirement 

benefit plans. More informati
on on those obligations is in 
Note
 12 (Short
-Term Borrowings) and Note
 19 (Employee 
Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
  Table 16:  Contractual Obligations
                                 Note(s) to
           More
             Financial
     Less than
 1-3 3-5 than
 Indeterminate
     (in millions)
 Statements
     1 year
 years
 years
 5 years
 maturity
   Total
 Contractual payments by period: 
                       Deposits
 11    $  108,232
   33,601
   10,855
   2,500
   692,754
  (1)
  847,942
    Long
-term debt (2)
 7, 13
      36,223
   35,529
   19,585
   65,646
   -     156,983
    Operating leases
 7       1,134
   2,334
   1,732
   3,405
   -     8,605
    Unrecognized tax obligations
 20       22   -   -   -   2,630
     2,652
    Commitm
ents to purchase debt securities
        1,153
   650   -   -   -     1,803
    Purchase obligations (3)
        383   278   40   1   -     702      Total contractual obligations
     $  147,147
   72,392
   32,212
   71,552
   695,384
     1,018,687
                            (1)
 Includes interest
-bearing and noninterest
-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings accounts.
 (2)
 Includes obligations under capital leases of $26 million.
 (3)
 Represents agreements to purchase goods or services.
                            We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states 
and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in 

which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax 

obligations related to these operations that may require futur
e cash tax payments to various taxing authorities. Because of 

their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of 

these payments generally are not reasonably estimable or 

determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount payable in 

the next 12 months based on the status of our tax examinations 

and settlement discussions. See Note 20 (Income Taxes) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for more information.
   We enter into derivatives, which create contractual 
obligations, as part of our interest rate
 risk management 
process for our customers or for other trading activities. See 

the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Asset/Liabilityﬂ section and Note
 15 
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report for more 

information.
  Transactions with Related Parties
 The Re
lated Party Disclosures topic of the Codification requires 
disclosure of material related party transactions, other than 

compensation arrangements, expense allowances and other 

similar items in the ordinary course of business. We had no 

related party trans
actions required to be reported for the years 
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
 2008.
 53    All financial institutions must manage and control a variety of 
business risks that can significantly affect their financial 

performance. Key among th
ose are credit, asset/liability and 
market risk.
 Risk Management
   Credit Risk Management 
 Our credit risk management process is governed centrally, but 

provides for decentralized management and accountability by 

our lines of business. Our overall credit process includes 

comprehensive credit policies, judgmental or statistical credit 
underwriting, frequent and detailed risk measurement and 

modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a continual 

loan review and audit process. In addition, banking regulatory 

examiners r
eview and perform detailed tests of our credit 
underwriting, loan administration and allowance processes.
  A key to our credit risk management is adhering to a well 
controlled underwriting process, which we believe is 

appropriate for the needs of our custo
mers as well as investors 
who purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans. 

We approve applications and make loans only if we believe the 

customer has the ability to repay the loan or line of credit 

according to all its terms. Our underwrit
ing of loans 

collateralized by residential real property includes appraisals or 

automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property 

values. AVMs are computer
-based tools used to estimate the 
market value of homes. AVMs are a lower
-cost alternative to 
app
raisals and support valuations of large numbers of 

properties in a short period of time. AVMs estimate property 

values based on processing large volumes of market data 

including market comparables and price trends for local 

market areas. The primary risk a
ssociated with the use of 

AVMs is that the value of an individual property may vary 

significantly from the average for the market area. We have 

processes to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk 

management guidelines addressing the circumstances whe
n 
AVMs may be used. Generally AVMs are used in underwriting 

to support property values on loan originations only where the 

loan amount
 is under $250,000. For underwriting residential 
property loans of $250,000 or more, we require property 

visitation apprai
sals by qualified independent appraisers.
  We
 continually evaluate and modify our credit policies to 
address appropriate levels of risk. Accordingly, from time to 

time, we designate certain portfolios and loan products as non
-strategic or high risk to limi
t or cease their continued 

origination as we actively work to limit losses and reduce our 

exposures.
  Table 17 identifies our non
-strategic and liquidating loan 
portfolios as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. These 

portfolios have decreased 32% since th
e merger with Wachovia 
at December 31, 2008, and decreased 19% from the end of 

2009. The portfolios consist primarily of the Pick
-a-Pay 
mortgages portfolio and PCI loans acquired in our acquisition 

of Wachovia as well as some portfolios from legacy Wells F
argo 
home equity and Wells Fargo Financial. The legacy Wells Fargo 

Financial debt consolidation portfolio included $1.2
 billion and 
$1.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that 
was considered prime based on secondary market standards. 

The
 remainder is non
-prime but was originated with standards 
to reduce credit risk. These loans were originated through our 

retail channel with documented income, LTV limits based on 

credit quality and property characteristics, and risk
-based 
pricing. In addi
tion, the loans were originated without teaser 
rates, interest
-only or negative amortization features. Credit 
losses in the portfolio have increased in the current economic 

environment compared with historical levels, but performance 

has remained similar t
o prime portfolios in the industry with 
overall loss rates of 4.15% in 2010 on the entire portfolio. 

Analysis of the Pick
-a-Pay and the commercial and industrial 
and CRE domestic PCI portfolios is presented later in this 

section.
  Table 17:  Non
-Strategic 
and Liquidating Loan Portfolios
                     Outstanding balance
       December 31,
 (in billions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Commercial and industrial, CRE
           and foreign PCI loans (1)(2)
 $  7.9
   13.0
   18.7
  Pick
-a-Pay mortgage (1)
    74.8   85.2
   95.3
  Liquidating home equity
    6.9
   8.4
   10.3
  Legacy Wells Fargo Financial
           indirect auto
    6.0
   11.3
   18.2
  Legacy Wells Fargo Financial
           debt consolidation (2)(3)
    19.0
   22.4
   25.3
  Other PCI loans (1)(2)
    1.1
   1.7
   2.5
    Total non
-strategic and
             liquidating loan portfolios
 $  115.7
   142.0
   170.3
                (1)
 Net of purchase accounting adjustments related to PCI loans.
 (2)
 These portfolios were designated as non
-strategic and liq
uidating in 2010. 
Prior periods have been adjusted to reflect this change.
   (3)
 In July 2010, we announced the restructuring of our Wells Fargo Financial 
division and the exiting of the origination of non
-prime portfolio mortgage 
loans.
                Measuring and monitoring our credit risk is an ongoing 
process that tracks delinquencies, collateral values, FICO 

scores, economic trends by geographic areas, loan
-level risk 
grading for certain portfolios (typically commercial) and other 

indica
tions of credit risk. Our credit risk monitoring process is 
designed to enable early identification of developing risk and to 

support our determination of an adequate allowance for credit 

losses. The following analysis reviews the relevant 

concentrations a
nd certain credit metrics of our significant 
portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) 

to Financial Statements in this Report for more analysis and 

credit metric information.
 54    COMMERCIAL REAL ESTA
TE (CRE)
  The CRE portfolio consists 
of both CRE mortgages and CRE construction loans. The 
combined CRE loans outstanding totaled $124.8 billion at 
December 31, 2010, or 16% of total loans. Of the $124.8 billion, 

approximately $5.8 billion represents the net balance of PCI 

CRE loans. CRE constr
uction loans totaled $25.3 billion at 
December 31, 2010, or 3% of total loans. CRE mortgage loans 

totaled $99.4 billion at December 31, 2010, or 13% of total 

loans
, of which over 40% is to owner
-occupants, who 
historically have a low level of default
. The 
portfolio is 
diversified both geographically and by property type. The 

largest geographic concentrations are found in California and 

Florida, which represented 23% and 11% of the total CRE 

portfolio, respectively. By property type, the largest 

concentratio
ns are office buildings at 23% and 
industrial/warehouse at 11% of the portfolio.
  The underwriting of CRE loans primarily focuses on cash 
flows and creditworthiness, 
in addition to 
collateral valuations. 

To identify and manage newly emerging problem CRE lo
ans, 
we employ a high level of surveillance and regular customer 

interaction to understand and manage the risks associated with 

these assets, including regular loan reviews and appraisal 

updates. As issues are identified, management is engaged and 

dedicate
d workout groups are 
put 
in place to manage problem 
assets. At 
Dec
ember 3
1, 2010, the recorded investment in 
PCI 
CRE loans totaled $
5.8
 billion, down from $12.3 billion since 
the Wachovia acquisition at December
 31,
 2008, reflecting the 
reduction resulting
 from loan resolutions and write
-downs.
   Table 
18 
summarizes CRE loans by state and property type 
with the related nonaccrual totals. At 
Dec
ember 3
1, 2010, the 
highest concentration of total loans by state was $
28.2
 billion 
in California, 
more than
 doubl
e the next largest state 
concentration, and the related nonaccrual loans totaled about 

$1.5 billion, or 
5% of CRE loans in California. Office buildings, 
at $
28.7
 billion, were the largest property type concentration, 
more than 
double the next largest, and 
the related nonaccrual 

loans totaled $
1.4
 billion, or 
5% of total
 CRE loans for office 
buildings
. In aggregate, n
onaccrual loans totaled 
7% of the 
non
-PCI outstanding balance at 
Dec
ember 3
1, 2010.
 55 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    Table 18:  CRE Loans by State and Property Type
                                       December 31, 2010
         Real estate mortgage
   Real estate construction
   Total
   % of 
           Nonaccrual
 Outstanding
   Nonaccrual
 Outstanding
   Nonaccrual
 Outstanding
   total
   (in millions)
   loans
 balance (1)
   loan
s balance (1)
   loans
 balance (1)
   loans
   By state:
                         PCI loans:
                         Florida
 $  -   459     -   578     -   1,037
    * % California
    -   588     -   193     -   781    *   Georgia
    -   301     -   250     -   551    *   North Carolina
    -   180     -   353     -   533    *   New York
    -   226     -   225     -   451    *   Other
    -   1,101
     -   1,350
     -   2,451
   (2)
 *     Total PCI loans
 $   -   2,855
     -   2,949
     -   5,804
    * % All other loans:
                         California
 $   1,172
   23,780
     375   3,648
     1,547
   27,428
     4  % Florida
    912   10,023
     412   2,286
     1,324
   12,309
     2    Texas
    376   6,523
     165   2,186
     541   8,709
     1    North Car
olina
    346   4,663
     254   1,477
     600   6,140
    *   New York
    56   4,440
     17   1,111
     73   5,551
    *   Virginia
    49   3,574
     147   1,512
     196   5,086
    *   Georgia
    374   3,726
     181   885     555   4,611
    *   Arizona
    259   3,445
     140   726     399   4,171
    *   Colorado
    106   2,868
     76   698     182   3,566
    *   New Jersey
    109   2,641
     40   513     149   3,154
    *   Other 
    1,468
   30,897
     869   7,342
     2,337
   38,239
   (3)
  5      Total 
all other loans
 $   5,227
   96,580
     2,676
   22,384
     7,903
   118,964
     16  %     Total
 $  5,227
   99,435
     2,676
   25,333
     7,903
   124,768
     16  % By property:
                         PCI loans:
                         Office buildings
 $  -   953     -   317     -   1,270
    * % Apartments
    -   565     -   704     -   1,269
    *   1-4 family land
    -   249     -   559     -   808    *   Retail (excluding shopping center)
    -   341     -   90     -   431    *   1-4 family structure
    -   29     -   353     -   382    *   Other 
    -   718     -   926     -   1,644
    *     Total PCI loans
 $   -   2,855
     -   2,949
     -   5,804
    * % All other loans:
                         Office buildings
 $   1,214
   24,841
     233   2,598
     1,447
   27,439
     4  % Industrial/warehouse
    730   13,058
     76   931     806   13,989
     2    Real estate 
- other
    576   11,853
     61   691     637   12,544
     2    Apartments
    368   8,309
     305   3,451
     673   11,760
     2    Retai
l (excluding shopping center)
    591   9,628
     126   868     717   10,496
     1    Shopping center
    363   6,578
     270   1,622
     633   8,200
     1    Land (excluding 1
-4 family)
    41   524     671   7,013
     712   7,537
     1    Hotel/motel
    469   5,916
     74   999     543   6,915
    *   Institutional
    112   2,646
     9   179     121   2,825
    *   1-4 family land
    157   328     514   2,255
     671   2,583
    *   Other 
    606   12,899
     337   1,777
     943   14,676
     2      Total
 all other loans
 $   5,227
   96,580
     2,676
   22,384
     7,903
   118,964
     16  %     Total
 $  5,227
   99,435
   (4)
  2,676
   25,333
     7,903
   124,768
     16  %                               * Less than 1%.
 (1)
 For PCI loans
, amounts represent carrying 
value.
 (2)
 Includes 35 states; no state had loans in excess of $436 million.
 (3)
 Includes 40 states; no state had loans in excess of 
$3.1 billion.
 (4)
 Includes $40.0 billion of loans to owner
-occupants where 51% or more of the property is used in the conduct of their
 business.
 56    COMMERCIAL 
AND INDUSTRIAL 
LOANS AND LEASE 
FINANCING
  For purposes of portfolio risk management, we 
aggregate commercial 
and industrial 
loans and lease
 financing 
according to
 market segmentation and
 standard industry 
codes.
 Table 19 summarizes co
mmercial 
and industrial 
loans and 
lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual totals
. While this portfolio has experienced deterioration in the current 
credit cycle, we believe t
his portfolio has experienced less credit 
deterioration than our C
RE portfolios
. For the year ended 
December 31, 2010, the commercial and industrial loans and 

lease financing portfolios had (1) a lower percentage of loans 90 

days or more past due and still accruing (0.19% at year end; 

0.24% for CRE), (2) a lower percenta
ge of nonperforming loans 
to total loans outstanding (2.02% at year end; 6.33% for CRE), 

and (3) a lower loss rate to average total loans (1.50% for the 

year; 1.67% for CRE).
 We believe this portfolio is
 well 
underwritten and is diverse in its risk with re
latively even 
concentrations across several industries
. 
A majority of our 
commercial 
and industrial 
loans and lease financing portfolio is 
secured by short
-term liquid assets, such as accounts receivable, 
inventory and securities, as well as long
-lived ass
ets, such as 
equipment and other business assets. Our credit risk 

management 
process 
for this portfolio primarily focuses on a 
customer™s ability to repay the loan through their cash flow. 

Generally, 
the 
collateral securing this portfolio represents a 
seco
ndary source of repayment.
          Table 19:  Commercial and Industrial Loans and Lease 
Financing by Industry
                             December 31, 2010
                 % of
         Nonaccrual
 Outstanding
   total
   (in millions)
 loans
 balance (1
)   loans
   PCI loans:
             Investors
 $  -   111    * % Media
    -   107    *   Insurance
    -   91    *   Technology
    -   65    *   Healthcare
    -   47    *   Residential construction
    -   41    *   Other
    -   256  (2)
 *     Total P
CI loans
 $  -   718    * %  All other loans:
             Financial institutions
 $  167   10,468
     1  %  Cyclical retailers
    67   8,804
     1    Food and beverage
    32   8,392
     1    Oil and gas
    156   8,140
     1    Healthcare
    87   7,885
     1    Transportation
    34   6,427
    *   Industrial equipment
    113   6,284
    *   Real estate 
Œ other
    90   5,713
    *   Business services
    66   5,632
    *   Technology
    28   5,609
    *   Investors
    114   5,326
    *   Utilities
    107   4,793
    *   Other
    2,260
   80,187
  (3)
  11      Total all other loans
 $  3,321
   163,660
     22  %      Total
 $  3,321
   164,378
     22  %                   * Less than 1%.
 (1)
 For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value.
 (2)
 No other single category
 had loans in excess of $35 
million
. (3)
 No other single category had loans in excess of $4.6 billion. The next largest 
categories included public administration, hotel/restaurant, media, non
-residential construction and securities firms.
 57 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
     During the recent c
redit cycle, we have experienced an 
increase in requests for extensions of commercial
 and industrial
 and 
CRE
 loans
, which have repayment guarantees. All 
extensions granted 
are 
based on a re
-underwriting of the loan 
and our assessment of the borrower™s abil
ity to perform under 
the
 agreed
-upon terms. At the time of extension, borrowers are 
generally performing in accordance with the contractual loan 
terms. Extension terms generally range from six to thirty
-six 
months and may require that the borrower provide 
additional 

economic support in the form of partial repayment, amortization 

or additional collateral or guarantees. In cases where the value of 

collateral or financial condition of the borrower is insufficient to 

repay our loan, we may rely upon the support
 of an outside 
repayment guarantee in providing the extension. In considering 

the impairment status of the loan, we evaluate the collateral and 

future cash flows as well as the anticipated support of any 

repayment guarantor. When performance under a loan i
s not 
reasonably assured, including the performance of the guarantor, 

we place the loan on nonaccrual status and 
we charge
-off all or a 
portion of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral securing 

the loan.
  Our ability to seek performance under th
e guarantee is 
directly related to the guarantor™s creditworthiness, capacity and 

willingness to perform
, which is evaluated 
on an annual basis, or 
more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the 

most current financial information available an
d is focused on 
various key financial metrics, including net worth, leverage, and 

current and future liquidity. We consider the guarantor™s 

reputation, creditworthiness, and willingness to work with us 

based on our analysis as well as other lenders™ experi
ence with 
the guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor™s credit strength 

is reflected in our loan risk ratings for such loans. The loan risk 

rating is an important factor in our allowance methodology for 

commercial and 
industrial and CRE
 loans.
 REAL EST
ATE 1
-4 FAMILY FIRST MORTG
AGE LOANS
  The 
concentrations of real estate 1
-4 family mortgage loans by state 
are presented in Table 20. Our real estate 1
-4 family mortgage 
loans to borrowers in California represented approximately 14% 

of total loans (3% of th
is amount were PCI loans from Wachovia) 
at both December 31, 2010 and 2009,
 mostly within the larger 
metropolitan areas, with no single area consisting of more than 

3% of total loans.
 Changes in real estate values and underlying 
economic or market conditio
ns for these areas are monitored 
continuously within our credit risk management process.
  Some of our real estate 1
-4 family mortgage loans 
(representing first mortgage and home equity products) include 

an interest
-only feature as part of the loan terms.
 At December
 31, 2010, these loans were approximately 25% of total 
loans, compared with 26% at the end of 2009. Substantially all 

of these loans are considered to be prime or near prime. We 

believe we have manageable adjustable
-rate mortgage (ARM) 
reset risk
 across our Wells
 Fargo originated and owned mortgage 
loan portfolios.
 Table 20:  Real Estate 1
-4 Family Mortgage Loans by State
                               December 31, 2010
           Real estate
 Real estate
 Total real
             1-4 family
 1-4 f
amily
 estate 1
-4 % of
           first
 junior lien
 family
 total
   (in millions)
   mortgage
 mortgage
 mortgage
 loans
   PCI loans:
             California
 $  21,630
   49   21,679
   3  % Florida
    3,076
   56   3,132
  *   New Jersey
    1,293
   36   1,329
  *   Other (1)
    7,246
   109   7,355
  *     Total PCI loans
 $  33,245
   250   33,495
   4  % All other loans:
             California
 $  55,794
   26,612
   82,406
   11  % Florida
    17,296
   7,782
   25,078
   3    New Jersey
    8,908
   6,403
   15,311
   2    New York
    8,169
   3,709
   11,878
   2    Virginia
    6,145
   4,622
   10,767
   1    Pennsylvania
    6,233
   4,066
   10,299
   1    North Carolina
    5,860
   3,552
   9,412
   1    Texas
    6,645
   1,519
   8,164
   1    Georgia
    4,886
   3,472
   8,35
8   1    Other (2)
    77,054
   34,162
   111,216
   15      Total all
                 other loans
 $  196,990
   95,899
   292,889
   39  %     Total
 $  230,235
   96,149
   326,384
   43  %                   * Less than 1%.
 (1)
 Consists of 45 states
; no state ha
d loans in excess of $759 
million
. (2)
 Consists of 41
 states; 
no state had loans in excess of $7.2 
billion
. Includes 
$15.5 
billion 
in 
Government National Mortgage Association (
GNMA
) pool 
buyouts.
 58    PURCHASED CREDIT
-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
  As of 
December
 31, 2008,
 certain of the loans acquired from Wachovia 
had evidence of credit deterioration since their origination, and 
it was probable that we would not collect all contractually 

required principal and interest payments. Such loans identified 

at the time of the ac
quisition were accounted for using the 
measurement provisions for PCI loans. PCI loans were recorded 

at fair value at the date of acquisition, and 
the historical
 allowance for 
credit
 losses 
related to these loans 
was not carried 
over.
  PCI loans were writt
en down to an amount estimated to be 
collectible. Accordingly, such loans are not classified as 

nonaccrual, even though they may be contractually past due, 

because we expect to fully collect the new carrying values of such 

loans (that is, the new cost basi
s arising out of our purchase 
accounting).
  A nonaccretable difference was established in purchase 
accounting for PCI loans to absorb losses expected at that time 

on those loans. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable 

difference do not affect the income sta
tement or the allowance 
for credit losses.
  Substantially
 all 
commercial
 and industrial
, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are ac
counted for as individual loans. Co
nversely, 
Pick
-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated 
into several pools based on c
ommon risk characteristics. Each 
pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite 

interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.
  Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third 
parties, receipt of payments in settlement 
with the borrower, or 
foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an 

individual loan from a pool based on comparing the amount 

received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any 

difference between these amounts is absorbed by the 

nona
ccretable difference. This removal method assumes that the 
amount received from resolution approximates pool 

performance expectations. The remaining accretable yield 

balance is unaffected and any material change in remaining 

effective yield caused by this 
removal method is addressed by 

our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For 

loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no release of 

the nonaccretable difference 
for the pool because
 there is no 
difference between the amount received at resolution and the 

contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans 
are not 
removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be 

deemed troubled debt restructurings (TDRs).
 Modified PCI 
loans that are accounted for individually are consider
ed TDRs, 
and removed from PCI accounting, if there has been a 

concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable 

difference.
  During
 2010, we recognized in income
 $989
 million of 
nonaccretable difference related to commercial PCI loans due to 

payof
fs and dispositions of these loans. We also transferred 
$3.
4 billion from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable 
yield, of which $2.4 billion was due to sustained positive 

performance in the Pick
-a-Pay portfolio evidenced through an 
increase in exp
ected cash flows. Table 21 provides an analysis of 
changes in the nonaccretable difference related to principal that 

is not expected to be collected.
  Table 21:  Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans
           
                            Oth
er
   (in millions) 
   Commercial
 Pick
-a-Pay
 consumer
 Total
 Balance at December 31, 2008 
 $  10,410
   26,485
   4,069
   40,964
  Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
             Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)
    (330)
  -   -   (330
)   Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)
    (86)
  -   (85)
  (171)
   Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving cash flows (3)
    (138)
  (27)
  (276)
  (441)
 Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
             Losses from loan 
resolutions and write
-downs (4)
    (4,853)
  (10,218)
  (2,086)
  (17,157)
 Balance at December 31, 2009 
    5,003
   16,240
   1,622
   22,865
  Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
             Loans resolved by settlement with borrower 
(1)
    (817)
  -   -   (817)
   Loans resolved by sales to third parties 
(2)
    (172)
  -   -   (172)
   Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving cash flows 
(3)
    (726)
  (2,356)
  (317)
  (3,399)
 Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
             Losses from loan resolutions and write
-downs 
(4)
    (1,698)
  (2,959)
  (391)
  (5,048)
 Balance at December 31, 2010 
 $  1,590
   10,925
   914   13,429
            
           (1)
 Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individu
ally accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in the period of settlement. Pick
-a-Pay 
and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases due to pool accounting for those loans, which a
ssumes that the amount received approxi
mates 
the pool performance expectations.
     (2)
 Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of t
he sale.
 (3)
 Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yiel
d for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased interest income as a prospective yield 
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans. 
   (4)
 Write
-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are absorbed by the n
onaccretable difference when severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe 
borrower financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the 
loan.
   59 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
     Since the Wachovia acquisition, we have released $
5.3
 billion 
in nonaccretable difference for certain PCI loans and pools of 
loans, including $
3.8
 billion transferred from the nonaccretable 
difference to the accretable yield and $
1.5 billion released 
through loan resolutions
. We have provided $
1.6 billion in the 
allowance for credit losses for certain PCI loans or pools of loans
 that
 have had loss
-related decreases to cash flows
 expected to be 
collected
. The net result is a $
3.7
 billion improvement in our 
initial projected lo
sses on all PCI loans.
   At 
Dec
ember 3
1, 2010, the allowance for credit losses 
in 
excess of nonaccretable
 difference on certain PCI loans was 
$298
 million.
 The allowance is necessary to absorb decreases in 
cash flows 
expected to be collected 
since acquisi
tion and 
primarily relates to individual PCI loans
. Table
 22 analyzes the 
actual and projected loss results on PCI loans since the 

acquisition of Wachovia on December 31, 2008, through 

Dec
ember 3
1, 2010.
  Table 22:  Actual and Projected Loss Results on PC
I Loans
                                           Other
   (in millions) 
   Commercial
 Pick
-a-Pay
 consumer
 Total
 Release of unneeded nonaccretable difference due to: 
             Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)
 $  1,147
   -   -   1,147
    Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)
    258   -   85   343    Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving cash flows (3)
    864   2,383
   593   3,840
      Total releases of nonaccretable difference due to better than expected
 losses 
    2,269
   2,383
   678   5,330
  Provision for worse than originally expected losses (4)
    (1,562)
  -   (62)
  (1,624)
       Actual and projected losses on PCI loans better than originally expected 
 $  707   2,383
   616   3,706
      (1)
 Release
 of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income 
in the period of settlement. Pick
-a-Pay 
and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases due to pool 
accounting for those loans, which assumes that the amount received approximates 
the pool performance expectations.
     (2)
 Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of t
he 
sale.
 (3)
 Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in 
increased interest income as a prospective yield 
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans. 
   (4)
 Provision for additional losses recorded as a charge to income, when it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be colle
cted for a PCI loan or pool of loans have 
decreased subsequent to the acquisition.
     For further detail on PCI loans, see
 Note 1 (Summary of 
Significant Accounting Policies 
Œ Loans) and Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
   60    PICK
-A-PAY PORTFOLIO
  The
 Pick
-a-Pay portfolio 
was
 one of 
the 
consumer residential first 
mortgage po
rtfolios
 we acquired 
from Wachovia. W
e considered a majority of the Pick
-a-Pay 
loans to be PCI loans.
  The
 Pick
-a-Pay portfolio had an 
outstanding
 balance of 
$84.2
 billion and a carrying value of $
74.8
 billion at 
December
 31, 2010
. It 
is a liquidating port
folio, as Wachovia 
ceased originating new Pick
-a-Pay loans in 
2008
.  Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgages and lines of 
credit 
associated with Pick
-a-Pay loans are reported in the Home 
Equity core portfolio. The Pick
-a-Pay portfolio includes loans 
that offer payment options (Pick
-a-Pay option payment loans), 
loans that were originated without the option payment feature, 
loans that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our 

modification efforts since the acquisition, and loans where the 

cus
tomer voluntarily converted to a fixed
-rate product. 
The Pick
-a-Pay portfolio is included in the consumer real estate 1
-4 family 
first mortgage class of loans in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for 

Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. T
able 
23 provides balances over time related to the types of loans 

included in the portfolio.
  Table 23:  Pick
-a-Pay Portfolio 
- Balances Over Time
                         
                                          December 31,
                  2010
       2009       2008                  Unpaid
         Unpaid
         Unpaid
                    principal
         principal
         principal
     (in millions) 
 balance
 % of total
       balance
 % of total
       balance
 % of total
   Option payment loans (1)
 $  49,958
   59  %   $  67,170
   69  %   $  99,937
   86  % Non
-option payment adjustable
-rate  
                               and fixed
-rate loans (1)
    11,070
   13         13,926
   14         15,763
   14    Full
-term loan modifications (1)
    23,132
   28         16,378
   17         -   -      Total unpaid principal balance (1)
 $  84,160
   100  %   $  97,474
   100  %   $  115,700
   100  %   Total carrying value 
 $  74,815
        $  85,238
        $  95,315
                                                                                        (1)
 Unpaid principal balance includes write
-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress ex
ist 
that indicate there will be a loss of contract
ually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan.
          PCI loans in the Pick
-a-Pay portfolio had an outstanding 
balance of $41.9
 billion and a carrying value of $32.4 billion at 
December 31, 2010. The carrying value of the PCI loans is net of 

remaining purchase accounting write
-downs, which reflected 
their fair value at acquisition. Upon acquisition, we recorded 
a $22.4
 billion write
-down in purchase accounting on Pick
-a-Pay 
loans that were impaired.
  Due to the sustained positive performance o
bserved on the 
Pick
-a-Pay portfolio compared to the original acquisition 
estimates, we have reclassified $2.4 billion from the 

nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield since the 

Wachovia merger. This improvement in the lifetime credit 

outlook for t
his portfolio is primarily attributable to the 
significant modification efforts as well as the portfolio™s 

delinquency stabilization. This improvement in the credit 

outlook is expected to be realized over the remaining life of the 

portfolio, which is estim
ated to have a weighted
-average life of 
approximately nine years. The accretable yield percentage at the 

end of 2010 was 4.54% compared with 5.34% at the end of 2009. 

Fluctuations in the accretable yield are driven by changes in 

interest rate indices for v
ariable rate PCI loans, prepayment 

assumptions, and expected principal and interest payments over 

the estimated life of the portfolio. Changes in the projected 

timing of cash flow events, including loan liquidations, 

modifications and short sales, can also
 affect the accretable yield 
percentage and the estimated weighted
-average life of the 
portfolio.
  Pick
-a-Pay option payment loans may be adjustable or fixed 
rate. They are home mortgages on which the customer has the 
option each month to select from among
 four payment options: 
(1) a minimum payment as described below, (2) an interest
-only 
payment, (3) a fully amortizing 15
-year payment, or (4) a fully 
amortizing 30
-year payment.
  The minimum monthly payment for substantially all of our 
Pick
-a-Pay loans is 
reset annually. The new minimum monthly 
payment amount usually cannot increase by more than 7.5% of 

the then
-existing principal and interest payment amount. The 
minimum payment may not be sufficient to pay the monthly 

interest due and in those situations a
 loan on which the 
customer has made a minimum payment is subject to ﬁnegative 

amortization,ﬂ where unpaid interest is added to the principal 

balance of the loan. The amount of interest that has been added 

to a loan balance is referred to as ﬁdeferred inte
rest.ﬂ Total 

deferred interest of $2.7
 billion at December 31, 2010, was down 
from $3.7 billion at December 31, 2009, due to loan modification 

efforts as well as falling interest rates resulting in the minimum 

payment option covering the interest and some 
principal on 

many loans. At December 31, 2010, approximately 75% of 

customers choosing the minimum payment option did not defer 

interest.
  Deferral of interest on a Pick
-a-Pay loan may continue as 
long as the loan balance remains below a pre
-defined princi
pal 
cap, which is based on the percentage that the current loan 

balance represents to the original loan balance. Loans with an 

original loan
-to-value (LTV) ratio equal to or below 85% have a 
cap of 125% of the original loan balance, and these loans 

represe
nt substantially all the Pick
-a-Pay portfolio. Loans with 
an original LTV ratio above 85% have a cap of 110% of the 
61 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    original loan balance. Most of the Pick
-a-Pay loans on which 
there is a deferred interest balance re
-amortize (the monthly 
payment amount is
 reset or ﬁrecastﬂ) on the earlier of the date 
when the loan balance reaches its principal cap, or the 10
-year 
anniversary of the loan. For a small population of Pick
-a-Pay 
loans, the recast occurs at the five
-year anniversary. After a 
recast, the customer
s™ new payment terms are reset to the 
amount necessary to repay the balance over the remainder of the 

original loan term.
  Due to the terms of the Pick
-a-Pay portfolio, there is little 
recast risk over the next three years. Based on assumptions of a 

flat r
ate environment, if all eligible customers elect the minimum 
payment option 100% of the time and no balances prepay, we 

would expect the following balances of loans to recast based on 

reaching the principal cap: $3
 million in 2011, $4
 million in 2012 
and $
32 million in 2013. In 2010, the amount of loans recast 
based on reaching the principal cap was $1 million. In addition, 

we would expect the following balances of loans to start fully 
amortizing due to reaching their recast anniversary date and also 

having
 a payment change at the recast date greater than the 
annual 7.5% reset: $34
 million in 2011, $69
 million in 2012 and 
$275 million in 2013. In 2010, the amount of loans reaching 

their recast anniversary date and also having a payment change 

over the annual
 7.5% reset was $39 million.
  Table 24 reflects the geographic distribution of the Pick
-a-Pay portfolio broken out between PCI loans and all other loans. 

In stressed housing markets with declining home prices and 

increasing delinquencies, the LTV ratio is 
a useful metric in 

predicting future real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage loan 
performance, including potential charge
-offs. Because PCI loans 

were initially recorded at fair value, including write
-downs for 
expected credit losses, the ratio of the carryi
ng value to the 
current collateral value will be lower compared with the LTV 

based on the unpaid principal balance. For informational 

purposes, we have included both ratios in the following table.
  Table 24:  Pick
-a-Pay Portfolio (1)
                                                       December 31, 2010
       PCI loans
     All other loans
                 Ratio of
                               carrying
                     Unpaid
 Current
       value to
     Unpaid
 Current
           principal
 LTV
   Car
rying
 current
   principal
 LTV
     Carrying
 (in millions)
 balance (2)
 ratio (3)
   value (4)
 value
   balance (2)
 ratio (3)
     value (4)
 California
 $  28,451
   117  % $  21,623
   88  % $  20,782
   81  % $  20,866
  Florida
    3,925
   122       2,960
   88       4,317
   100       4,335
  New Jersey
    1,432
   91       1,242
   78       2,568
   77       2,578
  Texas
    371   78       337   72       1,725
   64       1,732
  Washington
    525   96       488   89       1,288
   80       1,293
  Other states
    7,1
89   106       5,726
   83       11,587
   84       11,635
    Total Pick
-a-Pay loans
 $  41,893
      $  32,376
      $  42,267
      $  42,439
                                                                  (1)
 The individual states shown in this table rep
resent the top five states based on the total net carrying value of the Pick
-a-Pay loans at the beginning of 2010.
 (2)
 Unpaid principal balance includes write
-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe
 borrower financial stress exist 
that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan.
   (3)
 The current LTV ratio is calculated as the unpaid principal balance divided by the collateral value. Collateral val
ues are generally determined using automated valuation 
models (AVM) and are updated quarterly. AVMs are computer
-based tools used to estimate market values of homes based on processing large volumes of market data 
including market comparables and price tre
nds for local market areas.
     (4)
 Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan losses, includes remaining purchase accounting adjustments, whi
ch, for PCI loans may include the 
nonaccretable difference and the accretable yield and, f
or all other loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield at date of merger less any subsequent 
 charge
-offs.
      To maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to 
avoid foreclosure, we have in place several loss mitigation 

strat
egies for our Pick
-a-Pay loan portfolio. We contact 
customers who are experiencing difficulty and may in certain 

cases modify the terms of a loan based on a customer™s 

documented income and other circumstances.
  We also have taken steps to work with custom
ers to refinance 
or restructure their Pick
-a-Pay loans into other loan products. 
For customers at risk, we offer combinations of term extensions 

of up to 40 years (from 30 years), interest rate reductions, 

forbearance of principal, and, in geographies with
 substantial 
property value declines, we 
may
 offer permanent principal 
reductions.
  In 
2009
, we rolled out the U.S. Treasury Department™s 
 Home Affordability Modification Program
 (HAMP) to the 
customers in this portfolio. As of 
December 31, 2010
, more than
 11,000
 HAMP applications were being reviewed by our loan 
servicing department and more than 7,000
 loans have been 
approved for the HAMP trial modification. We believe a key 

factor to successful loss mitigation is tailoring the revised loan 

payment to the 
customer™s sustainable income. We continually 

reassess our loss mitigation strategies and may adopt additional 

or different strategies in the future.
  In 
2010
, we completed 
more than
 27,700
 proprietary and 
HAMP loan modifications and have completed 
more th
an 80,400
 modifications since the Wachovia acquisition
, resulting 
in $3.7 billion of principal forgiveness to our customers.
 The 
majority of the loan modifications were concentrated in our PCI 

Pick
-a-Pay loan portfolio. Approximately 
49,000
 modification 
offers were proactively sent to customers in 
2010
. As part of the 
modification process, the loans are re
-underwritten, income is 

documented and the negative amortization feature is eliminated. 
62    Most of the modifications result in material payment reduction 
to the customer. Because of the write
-down of the PCI loans in 
purchase accounting, our post
-merger modifications to PCI Pick
-a-Pay loans have not resulted in any modification
-related 
provision for credit losses. To the extent we modify loans not in 

the PCI 
Pick
-a-Pay portfolio, we 
may 
establish an
 allowance for 
consumer loans modified in a TDR
.   HOME EQUITY PORTFOLI
OS
  The deterioration in specific 
segments of the legacy Wells Fargo Home Equity portfolios, 

which began in 2007, required a targeted approach t
o managing 
these assets. In fourth quarter 2007, a liquidating portfolio was 

identified, consisting of home equity loans generated through 

the wholesale channel not behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage, 

and home equity loans acquired through correspondents.
 The 
liquidating portfolio was $
6.9 
billion at 
Dec
ember
 31, 2010, 
compared with $8.4
 billion at December 31, 2009. The loans in 
this liquidating portfolio represent 
less than
 1% of our total loans 
outstanding at 
Dec
ember 3
1, 2010, and contain some of the 
highest risk in our $
117.5
 billion Home Equity portfolio, with a 
loss rate of 
10.90
% compared with 
3.62% for the core portfolio.
 The loans in the liquidating portfolio are largely concentrated 
in geographic markets that have experienced the most abrupt 

and
 steepest declines in housing prices. The core portfolio was 
$110.6
 billion at 
Dec
ember 3
1, 2010, of which 
98% was 
originated through the retail channel and approximately 
19% of 
the outstanding balance was in a first lien position. 
Table 
25 
includes the cr
edit attributes of the
 Home Equity
 portfolios. 
California loans represent the largest state concentration in each 

of these portfolios and have experienced among the highest 

early
-term delinquency and loss rates.
  Table 25:  Home Equity Portfolios 
(1)
                                              % of loans
                        two payments
                 Outstanding balance
   or more past due
   Loss rate
           December 31,
   December 31,
   December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009     2010
     2009     2010
   2009  Core portfolio 
(2)
                     California
 $  27,850
   30,264
     3.30
  %  4.12
     4.92
   5.42
  Florida
    12,036
   12,038
     5.46
     5.48
     6.13
   4.73
  New Jersey
    8,629
   8,379
     3.44
     2.50
     1.95
   1.30
  Virginia
    5,667
   5,855
     2.33
     1.91
     1.86
   1.06
  Pennsylvania
    5,432
   5,051
     2.48
     2.03
     1.24
   1.49
  Other
    50,976
   53,811
     2.83
     2.85
     3.04
   2.44
    Total 
    110,590
   115,398
     3.24
     3.35
     3.62
   3.28
  Liquidating portfolio
                     California
    2,555
   3,205
     6.66
     8.78
     15.19
   16.74
  Florida
    330   408     8.85
     9.45
     13.72
   16.90
  Arizona
    149   193     6.91
     10.46
     20.89
   18.57
  Texas
    125   154     2.02
     1.94
     2.81
   2.56
  Minnesota
    91   108     5.39
     4.15
     9.57
   7.58
  Other 
    3,654
   4,361
     4.53
     5.06
     7.48
   6.46
    Total
    6,904
   8,429
     5.54
     6.74
     10.90
   11.17
        Total core and liquidating portfolios
 $  117,494
   123,827
     3.37
     3.58
     4.08
   3.88
                                                          (1)
 Consists predominantly of real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and junior lines of credit secured by real estate, excluding 
PCI loans.
 (2)
 Includes $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with the Pick
-a-Pay portfolio.
                             CREDIT CARDS
  Our
 credit card portfolio totaled $22.3 billion at 
December 31, 2010,
 which represented 3% of our total 
outstanding loans and was smaller than the credit card portfolios 

of each of our large bank peers. Delinquencies of 30 days or 

more were 4.4% of credit card outstandings at 

December
 31,
 2010, down from 5.5% a year ago. Net charge
-offs 
were 9.7% for 2010, down from 10.8% in 2009, reflecting 

previous risk mitigation efforts and overall economic 

improvements. 
 63 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    NONACCRUAL LOANS AND
 OTHER NONPERFORMING 
ASSETS
 Table 26
 shows the five
-year trend for nonaccrual loans and 
other NPAs. We generally place loans on nonaccrual status 
when: 
  the full and timely collection of interest or principal 

becomes uncertain; 
  they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate
 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest 

or principal
, unless both well
-secured and in the process of 
collection; or
  part of the principal balance has been charged off and no 

restructuring has occurred. 
  Note 1 (Summary of Signif
icant Accounting Policies 
Œ Loans) 
to Financial Statements in this Report describes our accounting 

policy for nonaccrual 
and impaired 
loans.
  Wachovia nonaccrual loans were virtually eliminated at 
December 31, 2008 (acquisition date), due to the purchase 

accounting adjustments. As a result, the rate of growth for 
nonaccrual loans since acquisition has been higher than it would 

have been without the PCI loan accounting. The impact of 

purchase accounting on our credit data will diminish over time. 

Table 27 su
mmarizes NPAs for each of the four quarters of 2010 
and shows a decline in the total balance in fourth quarter 2010 

for the first quarter since the acquisition of Wachovia.
  Table 26:  Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets
                                             December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
     2009   2008   2007   2006  Nonaccrual loans:
                 Commercial:
                   Commercial and industrial
 $  3,213
     4,397
   1,253
   432   331      Real estate mortgage
    5,2
27     3,696
   594   128   105      Real estate construction
    2,676
     3,313
   989   293   78      Lease financing
    108     171   92   45   29      Foreign
    127     146   57   45   43        Total commercial (1)
    11,351
     11,723
   2,985
   943   586    Consumer:
                   Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage (2)
    12,289
     10,100
   2,648
   1,272
   688      Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage 
    2,302
     2,263
   894   280   212      Other revolving credit and installme
nt    300     332   273   184   180        Total consumer
    14,891
     12,695
   3,815
   1,736
   1,080
          Total nonaccrual loans (3)(4)
    26,242
     24,418
   6,800
   2,679
   1,666
          As a percentage of total loans
    3.47
  %  3.12
   0.79
   0.70
   0.52
  Foreclosed assets:
                 GNMA (5) 
 $  1,479
     960   667   535   322    Other
    4,530
     2,199
   1,526
   649   423  Real estate and other nonaccrual investments (6)
    120     62   16   5   5            Total nonaccrual loans
 and other nonperforming assets
 $  32,371
     27,639
   9,009
   3,868
   2,416
            As a percentage of total loans
    4.27
  %  3.53
   1.04
   1.01
   0.76
                              (1)
 Includes LHFS of $3 million and $27 million at December 31, 201
0 and 2009, respectively.
           (2)
 Includes MHFS of $426 million, $339 million, $193 million, $222 million, and $82 million at December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 (3)
 Excludes loans acquired from Wachovia that are accounted f
or as PCI loans because they continue to earn interest income from accretable yield, independent of performance 
in accordance with their contractual terms.
   (4)
 See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report f
or further information on impaired loans.
 (5)
 Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans is classified as nonperforming.
 Both principal and interest for GNMA loans 
secured by the foreclosed real estate ar
e collectible because the GNMA loans are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department 
of 
Veterans Affairs (VA).
     (6)
 Includes real estate investments (loans with non
-traditional interest terms accounted for as
 investments) that would be classified as nonaccrual if these assets were recorded 
as loans, and nonaccrual debt securities.
   64     Table 27:  Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets During 2010
                                                       December 31, 2010
   September 30, 2010
   June 30, 2010
   March 31, 2010
                 % of
       % of
       % of
       % of
                 total
       total
       total
       total
   ($ in millions)
   Balances
 loans
     Balances
 loans
     Balances
 loans
     Balances
 loans
   Commercial:
                                   Commercial and industrial
 $  3,213
   2.12
  % $  4,103
   2.79
  % $  3,843
   2.63
  % $  4,273
   2.84
  %   Real estate mortgage
    5,227
   5.26
       5,079
   5.14
       4,689
   4.71
       4,345
   4.44
      Real estate construction
    2,676
   10.56
       3,198
   11.46
       3,429
   11.10
       3,327
   9.64
      Lease financing
    108   0.82
       138   1.06
       163   1.21
       185   1.33
      Foreign
    127   0.39
       126   0.4
2       115   0.38
       135   0.48
    Total commercial
    11,351
   3.52
       12,644
   3.99
       12,239
   3.82
       12,265
   3.77
    Consumer:
                                   Real estate 1
-4 family
                                     first mortgag
e    12,289
   5.34
       12,969
   5.69
       12,865
   5.50
       12,347
   5.13
      Real estate 1
-4 family
                                     junior lien mortgage
    2,302
   2.39
       2,380
   2.40
       2,391
   2.36
       2,355
   2.27
      Other revol
ving credit
                                     and installment
    300   0.35
       312   0.35
       316   0.36
       334   0.37
    Total consumer
    14,891
   3.42
       15,661
   3.58
       15,572
   3.49
       15,036
   3.30
        Total nonaccrual loans
    26,242
   3.47
       28,305
   3.76
       27,811
   3.63
       27,301
   3.49
    Foreclosed assets:
                                   GNMA 
    1,479
         1,492
         1,344
         1,111
        All other
    4,530
         4,635
         3,650
         2,970
      Total foreclosed assets
    6,009
         6,127
         4,994
         4,081
      Real estate and other 
                                   nonaccrual investments
    120         141         131         118            Total nonaccrual
                                         loans and other
                                         nonperforming assets
 $  32,371
   4.27
  % $  34,573
   4.59
  % $  32,936
   4.30
  % $  31,500
   4.03
  % Change from prior quarter
 $  (2,202)
        1,637
         1,436
         3,861
                                                65 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
     Total NPAs were $
32.4 billion (
4.27% of total loans) at 
December 31, 2010, and included $
26.2 billion of nonaccrual 
loans and $
6.0 billion of foreclosed assets. The growth rate in 
nonaccrual lo
ans slowed in 2010, peaking in third quarter
. Growth occurred in the real estate portfolios (commercial and 
residential) which consist of secured loans. Nonaccruals in all 
other loan portfolios were essentially flat or down
 year over year
. New inflows to n
onaccrual loans continued to decline. 
Table 28 
provides an analysis of the changes in nonaccrual loans.
  Table 28:  Analysis of Changes in Nonaccrual Loans
                                     Quarter ended
             Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30,
 June 30,
 Mar. 3
1, Dec. 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2010
   2010
   2010
   2009  Commercial nonaccrual loans
             Balance, beginning of quarter
 $  12,644
   12,239
   12,265
   11,723
   10,408
    Inflows
    2,329
   2,807
   2,560
   2,763
   3,856
    Outflows
    (3,62
2)  (2,402)
  (2,586)
  (2,221)
  (2,541)
 Balance, end of quarter
    11,351
   12,644
   12,239
   12,265
   11,723
  Consumer nonaccrual loans
             Balance, beginning of quarter
    15,661
   15,572
   15,036
   12,695
   10,461
    Inflows
    4,357
   4,866
   4,733
   6,169
   5,626
    Outflows
    (5,127)
  (4,777)
  (4,197)
  (3,828)
  (3,392)
 Balance, end of quarter
    14,891
   15,661
   15,572
   15,036
   12,695
      Total nonaccrual loans
    26,242
   28,305
   27,811
   27,301
   24,418
                         Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period
-over
-period 
represent inflows for loans that reach a specified past due 

status, offset by reductions for loans that are charged off, sold, 

transferred to foreclosed properties, or are no longer classified 

as n
onaccrual because they return to accrual status.
 We have 
increased our loan modification activity to assist homeowners 

and other borrowers in the current difficult economic cycle. 
 Loans are re
-underwritten at the time of the modification in 
accordance wit
h underwriting guidelines established for 
governmental and proprietary loan modification programs. For 

an accruing loan that has been modified, if the borrower has 

demonstrated performance under the previous terms and 

shows the capacity to continue to perf
orm under the 
restructured terms, the loan will remain in accruing status. 

Otherwise, the loan will be placed in a nonaccrual status 

generally until the borrower has made six consecutive months 

of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments 

made prior to modification.
  Loss expectations for nonaccrual loans are driven by 
delinquency rates, default probabilities and severities. While 

nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content, we believe the 

estimated loss exposure remaining in these balanc
es is 
significantly mitigated by four factors. First, 99% of consumer 

nonaccrual loans and 95% of commercial nonaccrual loans are 

secured. Second, losses have already been recognized on 52% 

of the remaining balance of consumer nonaccruals and 

commercial no
naccruals have been written down by 
$2.6
 billion. Residential nonaccrual loans are written down to 
net realizable value at 180
 days past due, except for loans that 
go into trial modification prior to becoming 180 days past due, 

and which are not written do
wn in the trial period (three 
months) as long as trial payments are being made on time. 

Third, as of December 31,
 2010, 57% of commercial nonaccrual 
loans were current on interest. Fourth, the inherent risk of loss 
in all nonaccruals is adequately covered 
by the allowance for 

loan losses.
  Commercial nonaccrual loans, net of write
-downs, 
amounted to $11.4
 billion at December 31, 2010, compared 
with $11.7 billion a year ago. Consumer nonaccrual loans 

amounted to $14.9
 billion at December 31, 2010, compared 
with $12.7
 billion a year ago. The $2.2 billion increase in 
nonaccrual consumer loans from a year ago was due to an 

increase in 1
-4 family first mortgage loans. Residential 
mortgage nonaccrual loans increased largely due to slower 

disposition and assets bro
ught on the balance sheet upon 
consolidation of VIEs. Federal government programs, such as 

HAMP, and Wells
 Fargo proprietary programs, such as the 
Company™s Pick
-a-Pay Mortgage Assistance program, require 
customers to provide updated documentation, and to 

demonstrate sustained performance by completing trial 

payment periods, before the loan can be removed from 

nonaccrual status. In addition, for loans in foreclosure, many 

states, including California and Florida, have enacted 

legislation that significantly 
increases the time frames to 

complete the foreclosure process, meaning that loans will 

remain in nonaccrual status for longer periods. At the 

conclusion of the foreclosure process, we continue to sell real 

estate owned in a timely fashion.
  When a consumer
 real estate loan is 120 days past due, we 
move it to nonaccrual status. When the loan reaches 180 days 

past due it is our policy to write these loans down to net 

realizable value, except for modifications in their trial period. 

Thereafter, we revalue each
 loan regularly and recognize 
additional charges if needed. Of the $14.9 billion of consumer 

nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2010, 98% are secured by 

real estate and 33% have a combined LTV (CLTV) ratio of 80% 

or below.
  Table 29 provides a summary of for
eclosed assets.
 66    Table 29:  Foreclosed Assets
                                     Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30,
 June 30,
 Mar. 31,
 Dec. 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2010
   2010
   2010
   2009  GNMA
 $  1,479
   1,492
   1,344
   1,111
   960  PCI loans:
               Commercial
    967   1,043
   940   697   405    Consumer
    1,068
   1,109
   722   490   336      Total PCI loans
    2,035
   2,152
   1,662
   1,187
   741  All other loans:
               Commercial
    1,412
   1,343
   1,087
   820   655    Consumer
    1,083
   1,140
   901   963   803      Total all other loans
    2,495
   2,483
   1,988
   1,783
   1,458
        Total foreclosed assets
 $  6,009
   6,127
   4,994
   4,081
   3,159
                         NPAs at December 31, 2010, included $1.5 billion of 
foreclose
d real estate 
that is FHA insured or VA guaranteed 
and expected to have little to no loss content, and $4.5 billion 
of foreclosed assets, which have been written down to the value 

of the underlying collateral. Foreclosed assets increased 

$2.9
 billion, or 9
0%, in 2010 from the prior year. Of this 
increase, $1.3
 billion were foreclosed loans from the PCI 
portfolio that are now recorded as foreclosed assets. 
At 

December 31, 2010, substantially all of our foreclosed assets of 

$6.0 billion have been in the portf
olio one year or less.
  Given our real estate
-secured loan concentrations and 
current economic conditions, we anticipate continuing to hold 

a high level of NPAs on our balance sheet. 
The loss content in 
the nonaccrual loans has been 
recognized through char
ge
-offs
 or provided for in the allowance for credit losses at 

December
 31, 2010.
 The performance of any one loan can be 
affected by external factors, such as economic or market 

conditions, or factors affecting a particular borrower.
 We
 increased staffing i
n our workout and collection organizations 
to ensure troubled borrowers receive the attention and help 

they need.
 See the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Allowance for Credit 
Lossesﬂ section in this Report for additional information.
   We process foreclosures on a reg
ular basis for the loans we 
service for others as well as those we hold in our loan portfolio. 

However, we utilize foreclosure only as a last resort for dealing 

with borrowers who are experiencing financial hardships. We 

employ extensive contact and restru
cturing procedures to 
attempt to find other solutions for our borrowers, and on 

average we attempt to contact borrowers over 75 times by 

phone and nearly 50 times by letter during the period from 

first delinquency to foreclosure sale.
  We employ the same f
oreclosure procedures for loans we 
service for others as we use for loans that we hold in our 

portfolio. 
We transmit customer and loan data directly from 

our system of record to outside foreclosure counsel to help 

ensure the quality of the customer and loa
n data included in 
our foreclosure affidavits. 
We 
continuously test this process to 
confirm the proper transmission of the data. 
Completed 

foreclosure affidavits that are submitted to the courts are 

reviewed, signed,
 and notarized as one of the last steps 
in a 

multi
-step process intended to comply with applicable law and 
help 
ensure the qu
ality of customer and loan data
. As 
previously disclosed, in the course of completing a thorough 

review of our foreclosure affidavit preparation and execution 

procedures, 
we did identify practices where final steps relating 
to the execution of foreclosure affidavits, as well as some 

aspects of the notarization process were not adhered to. 

However, we do not believe that any of these practices led to 

unwarranted foreclosures
. In addition, we have enhanced those 
procedures to help ensure that foreclosure affidavits are 

properly prepared, reviewed, and signed. 
 67 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)
                                   Table 30:  Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs
)                                     Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30,
 June 30,
 Mar. 31,
 Dec. 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2010
   2010
   2010
   2009  Consumer TDRs:
               Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
 $  11,603
   10,951
   9,525
   7,972
   6,685
    Re
al estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    1,626
   1,566
   1,469
   1,563
   1,566
    Other revolving credit and installment
    778   674   502   310   17      Total consumer TDRs
    14,007
   13,191
   11,496
   9,845
   8,268
  Commercial TDRs
    1,751
   1,350
   656   386   265        Total TDRs
 $  15,758
   14,541
   12,152
   10,231
   8,533
                        TDRs on nonaccrual status
 $  5,185
   5,177
   3,877
   2,738
   2,289
  TDRs on accrual status
    10,573
   9,364
   8,275
   7,493
   6,244
        Total TDRs
 $  15,758
   14,541
   12,152
   10,231
   8,533
                         Table 30 provides information regarding the recorded 
investment of loans modified in TDRs. 
We establish an 
allowance for loan losses
 when a loan is 
modified
 in a TDR
, which 
was $3.
9 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 
2010 
and 
2009
, respectively
. Total charge
-offs related to loans 
modified in a TDR were $
812
 million 
in 2010 
and $
479
 million 
in 2009
.  Our nonaccrual policies are generally the same for all loan 
types when a 
restructuring is involved. We underwrite loans at 
the time of restructuring to determine 
whether
 there is sufficient 
evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the 

borrower™s documented income, debt to income ratios, and other 

factors. Any loans lac
king sufficient evidence of sustained 
repayment capacity at the time of modification are charged down 

to the fair value of the collateral
, if applicable
. If the borrower 
has demonstrated performance under the previous terms and 

the underwriting process sho
ws the capacity to continue to 

perform under the restructured terms, the loan will remain in 

accruing status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in nonaccrual 

status generally until the borrower demonstrates a sustained 

period of performance
, generally six
 consecutive months of 
payments, or equivalent
, inclusive of consecutive payments 
made prior to modification
. Loans will also be placed on 
nonaccrual, and a corresponding charge
-off 
is 
recorded to the 
loan balance, if we believe that principal and interest
 contractually due under the modified agreement will not be 

collectible.
   We do not forgive principal for a majority of our TDRs, but in 
those situations where principal is forgiven, the entire amount of 

such principal forgiveness is immediately charged 
off. When a 

TDR performs in accordance with its modified terms, the loan 

either continues to accrue interest (for performing loans), or will 

return to accrual status after the borrower demonstrates a 

sustained period of performance.
  If interest due on all
 nonaccrual loans (including loans that 
were, but are no longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been 

accrued under the original terms, approximately $1.3 billion of 

interest would have been recorded as income in 2010, compared 

with $362 million recorded as 
interest income.
         68    LOANS 90 DAYS OR MOR
E PAST DUE AND STILL
 ACCRUING
  Loans
 included in this category are 90 days or more past due as 
to interest or principal and still accruing, because they are (1) 
well
-secured and in the process of collection or 
(2) real estate 
1-4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under 
regulatory rules from being classified
 as nonaccrual until later 
delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans of $11.6 billion 

at December 31,
 2010, and $16.1 billion at December
 31, 2009, 
are excluded from this disclosure even though they are 90 days 

or more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered 

to be accruing due to the existence of
 the accretable yield and not 
based on consideration given 
to contractual interes
t payments.
  Non
-PCI l
oans 90 days or more past due and still accruing 
were $18.5
 billion at December 31, 2010, and $22.2
 billion at 
December 31, 2009. Those
 balances include $14.7
 billion and 
$15.3
 billion, respectively, in 
loans
 whose repayments are 
insu
red by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.
  Excluding
 these
 insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90 days or 
more past due and still accruing at December 31, 2010, were 

down $3.1 billion, or 45%, from December 31, 2009. The decline 

was due to loss mitigation acti
vi
ties including modifications and
 increased collection capacity/process improvements
, charge
-offs,
 lower early stage delinquency levels
 and 
credit stabilization.
  Table
 31 reflects loans 90 days or more past due and still 
accruing excluding the insured/guar
anteed loans.
   Table 31:  Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing (Excluding Insured/Guaranteed Loans)
                                   December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008   2007   2006  Commercial:
               Commercial a
nd industrial
 $  308   590   218   32   15    Real estate mortgage
    104   1,014
   70   10   3    Real estate construction
    193   909   250   24   3    Foreign
    22   73   34   52   44      Total commercial
    627   2,586
   572   118   65  Consume
r:               Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage (1)
    941   1,623
   883   286   154    Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage (1)
    366   515   457   201   63    Credit card
    516   795   687   402   262    Other revolving credit and ins
tallment
    1,305
   1,333
   1,047
   552   616      Total consumer
    3,128
   4,266
   3,074
   1,441
   1,095
        Total 
 $  3,755
   6,852
   3,646
   1,559
   1,160
                        (1)
 Includes MHFS 90 days or more past due and still accruing.
 69 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    NET CHARGE
-OFFS
                       
         
         
         
   Table 32:  Net Charge
-offs 
                         
         
         
         
             Year ended
                                Quarter ended 
             December 31,
     Decembe
r 31, 
     September 30, 
     June 30, 
     March 31, 
           Net loan
 % of
   Net loan
 % of 
   Net loan
 % of 
   Net loan
 % of 
   Net loan
 % of 
           charge
- avg.
   charge
- avg. 
   charge
- avg. 
   charge
- avg. 
   charge
- avg. 
   ($ in millions)
 offs
 loans
   offs
 loans 
(1)
   offs
 loans 
(1)
   offs
 loans 
(1)
   offs
 loans 
(1)
   2010
                                             Commercial:
                                               Commercial and
                                                 industrial
 $  2,348
   1.57
  % $  500   1.34
   % $  509   1.38
   % $  689   1.87
   % $  650   1.68
   %   Real estate mortgage
    1,083
   1.10
       234   0.94
        218   0.87
        360   1.47
        271   1.12
       Real estate construction
  1,079
   3.45
       171   2.51
        276   3.72
        238   2.90
        394   4.45
       Lease financing
    100   0.74
       21   0.61
        23   0.71
        27   0.78
        29   0.85
       Foreign
    145   0.49
       28   0.36
        39   0.52
        42   0.57
        36   0.52
     Total commercial
    4,755
   1.47
       954   1.19
        1,065
   1.33
        1,356
   1.69
        1,380
   1.68
     Consumer:
                                               Real estate 1
-4 family
                                                 first mortgage
    4,378
   1.86
       1,024
   1.77
        1,034
   1.78
        1,009
   1.70
        1,311
   2.17
       Real estate 1
-4 family
                                                 junior lien mortgage
  4,723
   4.65
       1,005
   4.08
        1,085
   4.30
        1,184
   4.62
        1,449
   5.56
       Credit card
    2,178
   9.74
       452   8.21
        504   9.06
        579   10.45
        643   11.17
       Other revolving credit
                                               and installment
  1,719
   1.94
       404   1.84
        407   1.83
        361   1.64
        547   2.45
     Total consumer
    12,998
   2.90
       2,885
   2.63
        3,030
   2.72
        3,133
   2.79
        3,950
   3.45
           Total
 $  17,753
   2.30
  % $  3,839
   2.02
   % $  4,095
   2.14
   % $  4,489
   2.33
   % $  5,330
   2.71
   %                                                                                                         2009                                             Commercial:
                                               Commercial and industrial
 $  3,111
   1.72
  % $  927   2.24
   % $  924   2.09
   % $  704   1.51
   % $  556   1.15
   %   Real estate mortgage
    637   0.66
       315   1.29
        184   0.77
        119   0.49
        19   0.08
       Real estate construction
    1,047
   2.56
       409   4.23
        274   2.67
        259   2.48
        105   0.99
       Lease financing
    209   1.42
       49   1.37
        82   2.26
        61   1.68
        17   0.43
       Foreign
    197   0.64
       46   0.62
        60   0.79
        46   0.61
        45   0.56
     Total commercial
    5,201
   1.43
       1,746
   2.02
        1,524
   1.70
        1,189
   1.29
        742   0.78
     Consumer:
                                               Real estate 1
-4 family
                                                 first mortgage
    3,133
   1.31
       1,018
   1.74
        966   1.63
        758   1.26
        391   0.65
       Real estate 1
-4 family
                                                 junior lien mortgage
    4,638
   4.34
       1,329
   5.09
        1,291
   4.85
        1,171
   4.33
        847   3.12
       Credit card
    2,528
   10.82
       634   10.61
        648   10.96
        664   11.59
        582   10.13
       Other revolving credit
                                                 and installment
    2,668
   2.94
       686   3.06
        682   3.00
        604   2.66
        696   3.05
     Total consumer
    12,967
   2.82
       3,667
   3.24
        3,587
   3.13
        3,197
   2.77
        2,516
   2.16
           Tot
al
 $  18,168
   2.21
  % $  5,413
   2.71
   % $  5,111
   2.50
   % $  4,386
   2.11
   % $  3,258
   1.54
   %                                                                                                         (1) 
 Quarterly net charge
-offs as a percentage
 of average loans are annualized. 
   70     Table 32 presents net charge
-offs for the four quarters and 
full year of 2010 and 2009. Net charge
-offs in 2010 were 
$17.8
 billion (2.30% of average total loans outstanding) 
compared with $18.2
 billion (2.21%) in 200
9. Total 
net 
charge
-offs decreased in 
2010 
in part due to lower average loan balances 
and
 as a result of 
modestly improving
 economic conditions
, aggressive loss mitigation activities aimed at working with our 

customers through their financial challenges
, and a depletion of 
the pool of the most challenged vintages/relationships in the 

portfolio. 
Total net charge
-offs
 decreased each quarter 
throughout the year 
from
 the peak loss level in 
fourth quarter
 of 
2009. While loss levels remained 
elevated,
 the broad
-based 
improvement across the portfolio was an encouraging trend.
  Net charge
-offs in the 1
-4 family first mortgage portfolio 
totaled $4.4
 billion in 2010. Our relatively high quality 1
-4 family first mortgage portfolio continued to reflect relatively low 

loss rates, although until housing prices fully stabilize, these 

credit losses will continue to remain elevated.
   Net charge
-offs in the real estate 1
-4 family junior lien 
portfolio were $4.7
 billion in 2010. 
Loss levels increased 
throughout 2009 and peaked
 in the first quarter of 2010. Loss 
levels will remain elevated, however,
 until conditions in the real 

estate markets improve.
 More information
 about the Home 
Equity portfolio, which includes substantially all of our real 

estate 1
-4 family junior lien mort
gage loans,
 is available in 
Table
 25 in this Report and the related discussion.
  Credit card charge
-offs decreased $350
 million to 
$2.2
 billion in 2010. 
Delinquency and loss levels improved in 
2010 as the economy showed signs of stabilization
.  Commercial 
and CRE net charge
-offs were $4.8
 billion in 
2010 compared with $5.2
 billion a year ago. Wholesale credit 
results improved from 2009 as market liquidity and improving 

market conditions helped stabilize performance results. 

Increased lending activity in fou
rth quarter 
2010 
in the majority 
of our commercial business lines further supported 
our belief of 
a turn in the 
demand for 
credit
.  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT
 LOSSES
  The allowance for credit 
losses
, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the 
allowa
nce
 for unfunded credit commitments,
 is management™s 
estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio 
and 

unfunded credit commitments 
at the balance sheet date
, 
excluding
 loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in 
the allowance for c
redit losses
 by portfolio segment
 (including 
charge
-offs and recoveries by loan 
class
) is in Note 6
 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
  We employ a disciplined process and methodology to 
establish our allowance 
for 
credit
 losses each quarter. This 
process takes into consideration many factors, including 

historical and forecasted loss trends, loan
-level credit quality 
ratings and loan grade
-specific loss factors. The process involves 
subjective as well as complex judgments. In addition, we review 

a variety of credit metrics and trends. However, these trends 
do 
not solely determine
 the adequacy of the allowance as we use 
several analytical tools in determining 
its
 adequacy.
 For 
additional information on our allowanc
e for credit losses, see the 
ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 
Œ Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report.
  At December 31, 2010, the allowance for loan losses totaled 
$23.0
 billion (3.04% of total loans), compared with $24.5
 billion 
(3.13%), at December 31, 2009. The allowance for credit losses 

was $23.5
 billion (3.10% of total loans) at December 31, 2010, 
and $25.0 billion (3.20%) at December 31, 2009. The allowance 

for cred
it losses 
included $298 million and $333 million at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to 
PCI loans 

acquired from Wachovia. The allowance for unfunded credit 

commitments was 
$441
 million and $515
 million at 
December
 31, 2010 and 2009, respec
tively
. In addition to the 
allowance for credit losses there was $13.4 billion 
and 

$22.9
 billion 
of nonaccretable 
difference at December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively, to 
absorb losses for PCI loans. For 

additional information on PCI loans, see the ﬁRisk
 Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
Œ Purchased Credit
-Impaired Loansﬂ 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report.
  The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total 
nonaccrual loans was 89% and 1
03% at December 31, 2010 and 

2009, respectively. This ratio may fluctuate significantly 

from
 period to period due to such factors as the mix of loan 
types in the portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value an
d marketability of collateral. Over half
 of nonaccrual loans were 
home mortgages, auto and other consumer loans at 

December
 31, 2010. 
  The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to annual net 
charge
-offs was 130
% and
 135% at December 31, 2010
 and
 2009, 
respectively. 
The $1.5 billion decline in th
e allowance for loan 
losses
 in 2010 
reflected
 lower loan balances and 
lower levels of 
inherent credit loss in the portfolio compa
red with previous 
year
-end levels. When anticipated charge
-offs are projected to 
decline from current levels, this ratio will 
decrease
. As more of 
the portfolio experiences charge
-offs, charge
-off levels continue 
to increase and the remaining portfolio is anticipated to consist 

of higher quality vintage loans subjected to tightened 

underwriting
 standards administered during the do
wnturn in 
the credit cycle. As charge
-off levels peak, we anticipate coverage 

levels will decrease until charge
-off levels return to more 
normalized levels. This ratio may fluctuate significantly from 

period to period due to many factors, including general
 economic conditions, customer credit strength and the 

marketability of collateral.
 71 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
     Total provision for credit losses was $15.8
 billion in 2010, 
$21.7
 billion in 2009 and $16.0
 billion in 2008. The 2010
 provision was $2.0 billion less than credit losses, 
compared with 
a provision that was $3.5 billion in excess of credit losses in 

2009. 
Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we 
expect future reductions in the allowance for credit losses.
  Primary drivers of the 2010 provision reduction were 
conti
nued improvement in the consumer portfolios and related 
loss estimates and improvement in management™s view of 

economic conditions. These drivers were partially offset by an 

increase in impaired loans and related allowance primarily 

associated with increas
ed consumer loan modification efforts 
and a $693 million adjustment due to adoption of consolidation 

accounting guidance on January 1, 2010.
  In 2009, the provision of $21.7 billion included a provision in 
excess of credit losses of $3.5
 billion, which was
 primarily driven 
by three factors: (1) deterioration in economic conditions that 

increased the projected losses in our commercial portfolios, 

(2)
 additional allowance associated with loan modification 

programs designed to keep qualifying borrowers in thei
r homes, 
and (3) the establishment of additional allowance for PCI loans.
  In 2008, the provision of $16.0 billion included a provision 
in excess of credit losses of $8.1
 billion, which included 
$3.9
 billion to conform loss emergence coverage periods to th
e most conservative of legacy Wells Fargo and Wachovia withi
n Federal Financial Institutions
 Examination Council
 guidelines. 
The remainder of the allowance build was attributable to higher 

projected loss rates across the majority of the consumer credit 

businesses, and some credit deterioration and growth in th
e wholesale portfolios.
  In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our 
residential real estate portfolios, the loss rates used in our 

analysis include the impact of our established loan modification 

programs. When modifications occur or are probable to occur, 

our allowance considers the impact of these modifications, 

taking into consideration the associated credit cost, including re
-defaults of modified loans and projected loss severity. The loss 

content associated with existing and probable 
loan modifications 
has been considered in our allowance reserving methodology.
  Changes in the allowance reflect changes in statistically 
derived loss estimates, historical loss experience, current trends 

in borrower risk and/or general economic activity o
n portfolio 
performance, and management™s estimate for imprecision and 

uncertainty.
  We believe the allowance for credit losses of $23.5
 billion 
was adequate to cover credit losses inherent in the loan 

portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at D
ecember 
31, 2010. The allowance for credit losses is 
subject
 to change and 
considers existing factors at the time, including economic or 

market conditions and ongoing internal and external 

examination processes. Due to the sensitivity of the allowance 

for 
credit losses to changes in the economic environment, it is 

possible that unanticipated economic deterioration would create 

incremental credit losses not anticipated as of the balance sheet 

date. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses 

is discussed in the ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 
Œ Allowance for 
Credit Lossesﬂ section and Note
 6 (Loans and Allowance for 

Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.
 LIABILITY FOR MORTGA
GE LOAN REPURCHASE L
OSSES
 We sell residential mortgage l
oans to various parties, including (1) 
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (GSEs) who include the mortgage 

loans in GSE
-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs that 
issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that 

purchase mortgage loans for
 investment or private label 
securitization. In addition, we pool FHA
-insured and VA
-
guaranteed mortgage loans that back securities guaranteed by 

GNMA. We may be required to repurchase these mortgage 

loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or i
nsurer, or 
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit 

losses incurred on loans (collectively ﬁrepurchaseﬂ) in the event 

of a breach of such contractual representations or warranties 

that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 d
ays or less) 
after we receive notice of the breach.
  We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to 
various representations and warranties that reflect 

management™s estimate of losses for loans for which we could 

have repurchase obligation, whethe
r or not we currently service 

those loans, based on a combination of factors. Currently, 

repurchase demands primarily relate to 2006 through 2008 

vintages and to GSE
-guaranteed MBS.
 During 2010, we continued to experience elevated levels of 
repurchase acti
vity measured by number of loans, investor 
repurchase demands and our level of repurchases. We 

repurchased or reimbursed investors for incurred losses on 

mortgage loans with balances of $2.6 billion. Additionally, in 

2010, we negotiated global settlements 
on pools of mortgage 

loans of $675
 million, which effectively eliminates the risk of 
repurchase on these loans from our outstanding servicing 

portfolio. We incurred net losses on repurchased loans, investor 

reimbursements and loan pool global settlements t
otaling 
$1.4
 billion in 2010.
 Adjustments made to our mortgage repurchase liability in 
recent periods have incorporated the increase in repurchase 

demands, mortgage insurance rescissions, and higher than 

anticipated losses on repurchased loans that we have
 
experienced. 
Table 
33 provides the number of unresolved 
repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions.
 We 
generally do not have unresolved repurchase demands from the 

FHA and VA for loans in GNMA
-guaranteed securities because 
those demands are 
rel
atively 
few and we quickly resolve them.
 72    Table 33:  Unresolved Repurchase Demands and Mortgage Insurance Recissions
                                           Government
           Mortgage insurance
           sponsored entities (1)
   Private
   recission
s with no demand (2)
   Total
       Number of 
   Original loan
   Number of 
   Original loan
   Number of 
   Original loan
   Number of 
   Original loan
 ($ in millions)
 loans
   balance (3)
   loans
   balance (3)
   loans
   balance (3)
   loans
   balance (3)
 2010                               December 31
  6,501
  $  1,467
     2,899
  $  680     3,248
  $  801     12,648
  $  2,948
  September 30
  9,887
     2,212
     3,605
     882     3,035
     748     16,527
     3,842
  June 30
  12,536
     2,840
     3,160
     707     2,979
     760     18,675
     4,307
  March 31
  10,804
     2,499
     2,320
     519     2,843
     737     15,967
     3,755
                                      December 31, 2009
  8,354
     1,911
     2,929
     886     2,965
     859     14,248
     3,656
                                      (1)
 Includes repurchase demands on 1,495 loans totaling $291 million and 1,536 loans totaling $322 million at December 31, 2010, 
and December 31, 2009, respectively, 
received from investors on mortgage servicing rights
 acquired from other originators. We have the right of recourse against the seller for these repurchase demands and 
would incur a loss only for counterparty risk associated with the seller.
     (2)
 As part of our representations and warranties in our 
loan sales contracts, we represent that certain loans have mortgage insurance. To the extent the mortgage insurance is 
rescinded by the mortgage insurer, the lack of insurance may result in a repurchase demand from an investor.
   (3)
 While original loan
 balance related to these demands is presented above, the establishment of the repurchase reserve is based on a combination of
 factors, such as our 
appeals success rates, reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected loss 
severity, which is driven by the difference between the current 
loan balance and the estimated collateral value less costs to sell the property.
       The level of repurchase demands outstanding at 
December
 31, 2010, was down from a year ago in both 
number of 
outstanding loans and in total dollar balances as we continued to 
work through the demands. 
Customary with industry practice, 

we have the right of recourse against correspondent lenders with 

respect to representations and warranties. Of the repur
chase 
demands presented in Table 33, approximately 20% relate to 

loans purchased from correspondent lenders. Due primarily to 

the financial difficulties of some correspondent lenders, we 

typically recover on average approximately 50% of losses from 

these l
enders. Historical recovery rates as well as projected 
lender performance are incorporated in the establishment of our 

mortgage repurchase liability.
  Our liability for repurchases, included in ﬁAccrued expenses 
and other liabilitiesﬂ in our consolidated f
inancial statements, 
was $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, 

respectively. In 2010, $1.6 billion of additions to the liability 

were recorded, which reduced net gains on mortgage loan 

origination/sales activities. Our additions to t
he repurchase 
liability in 2010 reflect updated assumptions about the losses we 

expect on repurchases and future demands, particularly on the 

2006
-2008 vintages.
    We believe we have a high quality residential mortgage 
loan 
servicing portfolio. Of the $1
.8 trillion in the 
residential 
mortgage loan servicing portfolio at December 31, 2010, 92% 

was current, less than 2% was subprime at origination
, and 
approximately 1% was home equity securitizations. Our 

combined delinquency and foreclosure rate on this po
rtfolio was 
8.02% at December 31, 2010, compared with 8.96% at 

December
 31, 2009. In this portfolio 7% are private 
securitizations where we originated the loan and therefore have 

some repurchase risk; 58% of these loans are from 2005 vintages 

or earlier 
(weighted average age of 63 months); 81% were prime 
at origination; and approximately 70% are jumbo loans
. The 
weighted
-average LTV as of December 31, 2010
, was 72%.
 In 
addition, the highest risk segment of these private securitizations
 are the
 subprime loan
s originated 
in 2006 and 2007. These 
subprime loans have seller representations
 and warranties and 
currently have LTVs close to or exceeding 100%, and represent 

8% of the 
7% 
private securitization portion of the residential 
mortgage servicing portfolio
. We had only $114 million of 
repurchases related to private securitizations in 2010.
 Of the 
servicing portfolio, 4% is non
-agency acquired servicing and 3% 
is private whole loan sales. We did not underwrite and securitize 

the non
-agency acquired servicing and
 therefore we have no 
obligation on that portion of our servicing portfolio to the 

investor for any repurchase demands arising from origination 

practices.
  Table 34 summarizes the changes in our mortgage 
repurchase reserve.
  73 Risk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    Table 34:  Changes in Mortgage
 Repurchase Liability
                                           Quarter ended
                     Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30,
 June 30,
 Mar. 31,
    Year ended December 31,
   (in millions)
    2010
   2010
   2010
   2010
     2010
   2009    Balance, beginning of per
iod
 $  1,331
   1,375
   1,263
   1,033
     1,033
   620  (1)
   Provision for repurchase losses:
                       Loan sales
    35   29   36   44     144   302        Change in estimate 
- primarily due to credit deterioration
   429  341  346  358     1,474
   625            Total additions
    464   370   382   402     1,618
   927      Losses
    (506)
  (414)
  (270)
  (172)
    (1,362)
  (514)
   Balance, end of period
 $  1,289
   1,331
   1,375
   1,263
     1,289
   1,033
                                (1)
 Refle
cts purchase accounting refinements. 
  The mortgage repurchase liability of $1.3 billion at 
December
 31, 2010, represents our best estimate of the probable 
loss that we may incur for various representations and 
warranties in the contractual provisions of 
our sales of mortgage 

loans. There may be a range of reasonably possible losses in 

excess of the estimated liability that cannot be estimated with 

confidence. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses 

depends upon economic factors, investor dema
nd strategies and 
other external conditions that may change over the life of the 

underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan 

repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires 

considerable management judgment. We maintain regular 

contact with the GSEs and other significant investors to monitor 
and address their repurchase demand practices and concerns. 

For additional information on our repurchase liability, see the 

ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 
Œ Liability for Mortgage Loan 
Repurchas
e Lossesﬂ section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking 
Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.
  The repurchase liability is only applicable to loans we 
originated and sold with representations and warranties. Most of 

these loans are included in our ser
vicing portfolio. Our 
repurchase liability estimate involves consideration of many 

factors that influence the 
key assumptions 
of what our 

repurchase volume may be and what loss on average we may 

incur. Those key assumptions 
and the sensitivity of the liabi
lity 
to immediate adverse changes in th
em 
at 
December 31, 2010
, are 
presented in 
Table 35.
                Table 35:  Mortgage Repurchase Liability 
Œ Sensitivity/Assumptions
                             Mortgage
           repurchase
   (in millions)
   liability
   Balance at December 31, 2010
 $  1,289
                  Loss on repurchases (1)
    36.0
  %     
 Increase in liability from:
               
   10% higher losses
 $  145            
   25% higher losses
    362                  Repurchase rate 
assumption
    0.3
  %   Increase in liability from:
               
   10% higher repurchase rates
 $  108            
   25% higher repurchase rates
    269                                (1)
 Represents total estimated average loss rate on repurchased loa
ns, net of 
recovery from third party originators, based on historical experience and current 
economic conditions. The average loss rate includes the impact of repurchased 
loans for which no loss is expected to be realized.
    To the extent that economic co
nditions and the housing 
market do not recover or future investor repurchase demands 
and appeals success rates differ from past experience, we could 

continue to have increased demands and increased loss severity 

on repurchases, causing future additions to 
the repurchase 

liability. However, some of the underwriting standards that were 

permitted by the GSEs for conforming loans in the 2006 through 

2008 vintages, which significantly contributed to recent levels of 

repurchase demands, were tightened starting in
 mid to late 
2008. Accordingly, we do not expect a similar rate of repurchase 

requests from the 2009 and prospective vintages, absent 

deterioration in economic conditions or changes in investor 

behavior.
  74    RISKS RELATING TO SERVICING ACTIVITIES  
In additio
n to 
servicing loans in our portfolio, we act as servicer and/or master 
servicer of residential mortgage loans included in GSE
-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, GNMA
-guaranteed 
mortgage securitizations and private label mortgage 

securitizations, as well
 as for unsecuritized loans owned by 
institutional investors. The loans we service were originated by 

us or by other mortgage loan originators. As servicer, our 

primary duties are typically to (1) collect payment due from 

borrowers, (2) advance certain del
inquent payments of principal 
and interest, (3) maintain and administer any hazard, title or 

primary mortgage insurance policies relating to the mortgage 

loans, (4) maintain any required escrow accounts for payment of 

taxes and insurance and administer esc
row payments, and (5) 

foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent 

consistent with the documents governing a securitization, 

consider alternatives to foreclosure, such as loan modifications 

or short sales. As master servicer, our primary duties 
are 

typically to (1) supervise, monitor and oversee the servicing of 

the mortgage loans by the servicer, (2) consult with each servicer 

and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to observe its 

servicing obligations, (3) prepare monthly distribution 

statements to security holders and, if required by the 

securitization documents, certain periodic reports required to be 

filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (
SEC
), (4) if 
required by the securitization documents, calculate distributions 

and l
oss allocations on the mortgage
-backed securities, (5) 
prepare tax and information returns of the securitization trust, 

and (6) advance amounts required by non
-affiliated servicers 

who fail to perform their advancing obligations.
  Each agreement under whic
h we act as servicer or master 
servicer generally specifies a standard of responsibility for 

actions 
we take
 in such capacity and provides protection against 
expenses and liabilities 
we 
incur when acting in compliance with 
the specified standard. For examp
le, most private lab
el 
securitization agreements under which we act as servicer or 

master servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master 

servicer are entitled to indemnification by the securitization 

trust for taking action or refraining from 
taking action in good 

faith or for errors in judgment. However, we are not 

indemnified, but rather are required to indemnify the 

securitization trustee, against any failure by us, as servicer or 

master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any 
of 

our acts or omissions 
that
 involve willful misfeasance, bad faith 
or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard 

of, our duties. In addition, if we commit a material breach of our 

obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be s
ubject to 

termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period 

following notice, which can generally be given by the 

securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security 

holders. Whole loan sale contracts under which we act as 

servicer 
generally include similar provisions with respect to our 

actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in GSE
-guaranteed securitizations, and the possible remedies for 

violations of such standards, vary, and those standards and 

remedies are determ
ined by servicing guides maintained by the 
GSEs, contracts between the GSEs and individual servicers and 

topical guides published by the GSEs from time to time. Such 
remedies could include indemnification or repurchase of an 

affected mortgage loan.
  During
 fourth quarter 2010, w
e completed our review of our 
foreclosure procedures related to affidavit preparation and 

execution. We identified practices where final steps relating to 

the execution of foreclosure affidavits, as well as some aspects of 

the notari
zation process were not adhered to. However, we do 
 not believe that any of these practices led to unwarranted
 
foreclosures. In addition, we have enhanced those procedures to 

help ensure that foreclosure affidavits are properly prepared, 

reviewed, and sign
ed.
  Any re
-execution or redelivery of any documents in 
connection with foreclosures will involve costs 
that
 may not be 

legally or otherwise reimbursable to us to the extent they relate 

to securitized mortgage loans. Further, if the validity of any 

foreclo
sure action is challenged by a borrower, whether 

successfully or not, we may incur significant litigation costs, 

which may not be reimbursable to us to the extent they relate to 

securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if a court were to 

overturn a foreclo
sure due
 to errors or deficiencies in the 
foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower if the 

required process was not followed and such failure resulted in 

damages to the borrower.
 We could also have liability to a title 
insurer that insured
 the title to the property sold in foreclosure. 
Any such liabilities may not be reimbursable to us to the extent 

they relate to a securitized mortgage loan.
  Other 
concerns
 cited
 within recent press reports are that 
securitization loan files may be lacking
 mortgage notes, 
assignments or other critical documents required to be produced 

on behalf of the trust. Although we believe that we delivered all 

documents in accordance with the requirements of each 

securitization involving our mortgage loans, if any req
uired 
document with respect to a securitized mortgage loan sold by us 

is missing or defective, we would be obligated to cure the defect 

or to repurchase the loan.
  Some commentators also have suggested that the common 
industry practice of recording a mortg
age in the name of 
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS) creates 

issues regarding whether a securitization trust has good title to 

the mortgage loan. MERS is a company that acts as mortgagee of 

record and as agent for the owner of the relat
ed mortgage note. 
When mortgage notes are assigned, such as between an 

originator and a securitization trust, the change of ownership is 

recorded electronically on a register maintained by MERS, which 

then acts as agent for the new owner. The purpose of ME
RS is to 
save borrowers and lenders from having to record assignments 

of mortgages in county land offices each time ownership of the 

mortgage note is assigned. Although MERS has been in existence 

and used for many years, it 
has recently been
 suggested by s
ome 
commentators that having a mortgagee of record that is different 

from
 the owner of the mortgage note ﬁbreaks the chain of titleﬂ 
and clouds the ownership of the loan. We do not believe that to 

be the case, and believe that the operative legal principle
 is that 
the ownership of a mortgage follows the ownership of the 

mortgage note, and that a securitization trust should have good 

title to a mortgage loan if the note is endorsed and delivered to 

it, regardless of whether MERS is the mortgagee of record or
 whether an assignment of mortgage is recorded to the trust. 
75 Risk Management 
ŒAsset/Liability Management 
(continued)
    However, in order to foreclose on the mortgage loan, it may be 
necessary for an assignment of the mortgage to be completed by 

MERS to the trust, in order to comply with state law 

requirements gov
erning foreclosure. A delay by a servicer in 

processing any related assignment of mortgage to the trust could 

delay foreclosure, with adverse effects to security holders and 

potential for servicer liability. Our practice is to obtain 

assignments of mortgag
es from MERS 
during the
 foreclosure
 process.
  The FRB and OCC have completed a joint interagency 
horizontal examination of foreclosure processing at large 

mortgage servicers, including Wells Fargo, to evaluate the 

adequacy of their controls and governance 
over bank foreclosure 

processes, including compliance with applicable federal and 

state law.
 The OCC and other federal banking regulators are 
finalizing actions that will incorporate remedial requirements 

and sanctions with respect to servicers within thei
r relevant 
jurisdictions for identified deficiencies.
  Asset/Liability Management 
 Asset/liability management involves the evaluation, monitoring 

and management of interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity and 

funding. The Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee 

(Corporate ALCO), which oversees these risks and reports 

periodically to the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors 

(Board), consists of senior financial and business executives. 

Each of our principal business groups has its own asset/l
iability 

management committee and process linked to the Corporate 

ALCO process.
  INTEREST RATE RISK
 Interest rate risk, which potentially can 
have a significant earnings impact, is an integral part of being a 

financial intermediary. We are subject to inter
est rate risk 
because: 
  assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different 

times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities 

and interest rates are generally falling, earnings will initially 

decline); 
  assets and liabilities may reprice 
at the same time but by 

different amounts (for example, when the general level of 

interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates paid on 

checking and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is 

less than the general decline in market interest rates); 
  short
-term and long
-term market interest rates may change 
by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield 

curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs 

differently); or 
  the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may 

shorten or le
ngthen as interest rates change (for example, if 
long
-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, MBS held 
in the securities available
-for
-sale portfolio may prepay 
significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce 

portfolio income). 
   Interest
 rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on loan 
demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volume, the fair 

value of MSRs and other financial instruments, the value of the 

pension liability and other items affecting earnings.
  We assess interest 
rate risk by comparing our most likely 
earnings plan with various earnings simulations using many 

interest rate scenarios that differ in the direction of interest rate 

changes, the degree of change over time, the speed of change and 

the projected shape of the yield curve. For example, as of 

December 31, 2010, our most recent simulation indicated 

estimated earnings at risk of approximately 5% of our most likely 

earnings plan over the next 12 months using a scenario in which 

the federal funds rate rises to 4.
25% and the 10
-year Constant 
Maturity Treasury bond yield rises to 5.10%. Simulation 

estimates depend on, and will change with, the size and mix of 

our actual and projected balance sheet at the time of each 

simulation. Due to timing differences between the
 quarterly 
valuation of MSRs and the eventual impact of interest rates on 

mortgage banking volumes, earnings at risk in any particular 

quarter could be higher than the average earnings at risk over 

the 12
-month simulation period, depending on the path of 
interest rates and on our hedging strategies for MSRs. See the 

ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and 
Market Riskﬂ section in this Report for more information.
  We use exchange
-traded and over
-the
-counter (OTC) interest 
rate derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposures. The 

notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and 

estimated net fair value of these derivatives as of 

December
 31,
 2010 and 2009, are presented in Note 15 
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. We us
e derivatives for asset/liability management in three main ways: 
  to convert a major portion of our long
-term fixed
-rate debt, 
which we issue to finance the Company, from fixed
-rate 
payments to floating
-rate payments by entering into 
receive
-fixed swaps; 
  to convert the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability 

instruments/portfolios from fixed
-rate payments to 
floating
-rate payments or vice versa; and 
  to hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, funded 

mortgage loans and MSRs using interest rate swap
s, 
swaptions, futures, forwards and options. 
  MORTGAGE BANKING INT
EREST RATE AND MARKE
T RISK
 We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subjects us to 

various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. 

Based on market conditions and other factors, we reduce credit 

and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing some or a
ll of the 
long
-term fixed
-rate mortgage loans we originate and most of 
the ARMs we originate. On the other hand, we may hold 

originated ARMs and fixed
-rate mortgage loans in our loan 
portfolio as an investment for our growing base of core deposits. 

We dete
rmine whether the loans will be held for investment or 

held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently 

change our intent to hold loans for investment and sell some or 

all of our ARMs or fixed
-rate mortgages as part of our corporate 
asset/liabi
lity management. We may also acquire and add to our 
securities available for sale a portion of the securities issued at 

the time we securitize MHFS.
  Notwithstanding the continued downturn in the housing 
sector, and the continued lack of liquidity in the n
onconforming 
secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue remained 

strong, reflecting the complementary origination and servicing 
76    strengths of the business. The secondary market for agency
-conforming mortgages functioned well during the year.
  Interest 
rate and market risk can be substantial in the 
mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may potentially 
reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our 

residential MSRs measured at fair value, the value of MHFS and 

the associated income a
nd loss reflected in mortgage banking 
noninterest income, the income and expense associated with 

instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair 

value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan 

commitments (interest rate ﬁlocksﬂ) ex
tended to mortgage 
applicants.
  Interest rates affect the amount and timing of origination and 
servicing fees because consumer demand for new mortgages and 

the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in 

mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest 

rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees 

and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee income, 

depending on the level of new loans added to the servicing 

portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it 
takes for consumer 

behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the 

time required for processing a new application, providing the 

commitment, and securitizing and selling the loan, interest rate 

changes will affect origination and servicing
 fees with a lag. The 
amount and timing of the impact on origination and servicing 

fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the 

change in interest rates.
  We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS 
originations for which an active seconda
ry market and readily 
available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing 

models used for these loans. At December
 31,
 2008, we 
measured at fair value similar MHFS acquired from Wachovia. 

Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded w
hen earned, 

and related
 direct loan origination costs are recognized when 
incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other 

interests held related to residential loan sales and 

securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for prime 

MHFS an
d other interests held, which we hedge with free
-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs 

measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences and 

better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes 

in the value of deri
vatives used as economic hedges for these 
assets. During 2009 and 2010, in response to continued 

secondary market illiquidity, we continued to originate certain 

prime non
-agency loans to be held for investment for the 
foreseeable future rather than to be h
eld for sale. In addition, in 
2010, we have originated certain prime agency
-eligible loans to 
be held for investment as part of our asset/liability management 

strategy.
  We initially measure 
all of our MSRs at fair value and carry 
substantially all of them
 at fair value depending on our strategy 
for managing interest rate risk
. Under this method, the MSRs 
are recorded at fair value at the time we sell or securitize the 

related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs carried at 

fair value reflects changes
 in fair value at the end of each quarter 
and changes are included in net servicing income, a component 

of mortgage banking noninterest income. If the fair value of the 

MSRs increases, income is recognized; if the fair value of the 
MSRs decreases, a loss i
s recognized. We use a dynamic and 
sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our MSRs and 

periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. 

The valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve 

complex judgments by management abo
ut matters that are 
inherently unpredictable. See ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 
Œ Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rightsﬂ section of 

this Report for additional information. Changes in interest rates 

influence a variety of significant assumption
s included in the 
periodic valuation of MSRs, including prepayment speeds, 

expected returns and potential risks on the servicing asset 

portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other servicing 

valuation elements.
  A decline in interest rates generally in
creases the propensity 
for refinancing, reduces the expected duration of the servicing 

portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of MSRs. 

This reduction in fair value causes a charge to income 
for MSRs 

carried at fair value
, net of any gains
 on free
-standing derivatives 
(economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We may choose not to 

fully hedge all the potential decline in the value of our MSRs 

resulting from a decline in interest rates because the potential 

increase in origination/servicing fees 
in that scenario provides a 

partial ﬁnatural business hedge.ﬂ An increase in interest rates 

generally reduces the propensity for refinancing, extends the 

expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore 

increases the estimated fair value of the M
SRs. However, an 
increase in interest rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand 

and therefore reduce origination income.
  The price risk associated with our MSRs is economically 
hedged with a combination of highly liquid interest rate forward 

instruments 
including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate 
swaps and interest rate options. All of the instruments included 

in the hedge are marked to market daily. Because the hedging 

instruments are traded in highly liquid markets, their prices are 

readily obse
rvable and are fully reflected in each quarter™s mark 
to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results include a combination 

of directional gain or loss due to market changes as well as any 

carry income generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its 

overall di
rectional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the 
valuation of the underlying MSR asset. Consistent with our 

longstanding approach to hedging interest rate risk in the 

mortgage business, the size of the hedge and the particular 

combination of forw
ard hedging instruments at any point in 
time is designed to reduce the volatility of the mortgage 

business™s earnings over various time frames within a range of 

mortgage interest rates. Because market factors, the composition 

of the mortgage servicing port
folio and the relationship between 
the origination and servicing sides of our mortgage business 

change continually, 
the types of instruments used in our hedging 
are reviewed daily and rebalanced based on our evaluation of 

current market factors and the int
erest rate risk inherent in our 
MSRs portfolio. Throughout 2010, our economic hedging 

strategy generally used forward mortgage purchase contracts 

that were effective at offsetting the impact of interest rates on 

the value of the MSR asset.
  Mortgage forwar
d contracts are designed to pass the full 
economics of the underlying reference mortgage securities to the 

holder of the contract, including both the directional gain or loss 
77 Risk Management 
ŒAsset/Liability Management 
(continued)
    from the forward delivery of the reference securities and the 
corresponding carry
 income. Carry income represents the 
contract™s price accretion from the forward delivery price to the 

current spot price including both the yield earned on the 

reference securities and the market implied cost of financing 

during the period. The actual amo
unt of carry income earned on 
the hedge each quarter will depend on the amount of the 

underlying asset that is hedged and the particular instruments 

included in the hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the 

slope of the yield curve and other market
 driven supply and 
demand factors affecting the specific reference securities. A steep 

yield curve generally produces higher carry income while a flat 

or inverted yield curve can result in lower or potentially negative 

carry income. The level of carry inco
me is also affected by the 
type of instrument used. In general, mortgage forward contracts 

tend to produce higher carry income than interest rate swap 

contracts. Carry income is recognized over the life of the 

mortgage forward as a component of the contrac
t™s mark to 

market gain or loss. 
  Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage 
banking is a complex process that requires sophisticated 

modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance 

these various aspects of the mortgage bu
siness, there are several 
potential risks to earnings:
  Valuation changes for MSRs associated with interest rate 

changes are recorded in earnings immediately within the 

accounting period in which those interest rate changes 

occur, whereas the impact of thos
e same changes in interest 
rates on origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and 

over time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected 

from adverse changes in interest rates over a period of time 

on a cumulative basis but still display large var
iations in 
income from one accounting period to the next.
  The degree to which the ﬁnatural business hedgeﬂ offsets 

valuation changes for MSRs is imperfect, varies at different 

points in the interest rate cycle, and depends not just on the 

direction of inte
rest rates but on the pattern of quarterly 
interest rate changes.
  Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging 

results and associated costs are also affected by many 

factors. Such factors include the mix of new business 

between ARMs and fixed
-rate mortgages, the relationship 
between short
-term and long
-term interest rates, the degree 
of volatility in interest rates, the relationship between 

mortgage interest rates and other interest rate markets, and 

other interest rate factors. Many of these fact
ors are hard to 
predict and we may not be able to directly or perfectly hedge 

their effect. 
  While our hedging activities are designed to balance our 

mortgage banking interest rate risks, the financial 

instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with th
e values and income being hedged. For example, the change 

in the value of ARMs production held for sale from changes 

in mortgage interest rates may or may not be fully offset by 

Treasury and LIBOR index
-based financial instruments 
used as economic hedges f
or such ARMs. Additionally, the 
hedge
-carry income we earn on our economic hedges for the 
MSRs may not continue if the spread between short
-term 
and long
-term rates decreases, we shift composition of the 
hedge to more interest rate swaps, or there are othe
r 

changes in the market for mortgage forwards that affect the 

implied carry.
   The total carrying value of our residential and commercial 
MSRs was $15.9
 billion and $17.1
 billion at December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively. The weighted
-average note rate o
n our 
portfolio of loans serviced for others was 5.39% and 5.66% at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our total MSRs were 

0.86% of mortgage loans serviced for others at 

December
 31,
 2010, compared with 0.91% at 
December
 31,
 2009.
  As part of our m
ortgage banking activities, we enter into 
commitments to fund residential mortgage loans at specified 

times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest 

rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a 

specified interest rate 
and within a specified period of time, 

generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These 

loan commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans 

that will result from the exercise of the commitments will be held 

for sale. These derivati
ve loan commitments are recognized at 
fair value in the balance sheet with changes in their fair values 

recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest income. The 

fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during 

the life of the loan commi
tment, the expected net future cash 
flows related to the associated servicing of the loan as part of the 

fair value measurement of derivative loan commitments. 

Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair 

value of the underlying loan result
ing from the exercise of the 
commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not 

fund within the terms of the commitment, referred to as a fall
-out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is 

affected primarily by changes in interes
t rates and the passage of 
time.
  Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the 
risk that the price of the mortgage loans underlying the 

commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage 

interest rates from inception of the rate lock to the
 funding of the 
loan. To minimize this risk, we employ forwards and options, 

Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards 

and options contracts as economic hedges against the potential 

decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that 
these 

derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair 

value that will either fully or partially offset the changes in fair 

value of the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in 

investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, c
an also 
cause changes in the spread relationships between underlying 

loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot 

be hedged.
  MARKET RISK 
Œ TRADING ACTIVITIES
 From a market risk 
perspective, our net income is exposed to changes in intere
st 
rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and 

commodity prices and their implied volatilities. The primary 

purpose of our trading businesses is to accommodate customers 

in the management of their market price risks. Also, we take 

positions b
ased on market expectations or to benefit from price 
78    differences between financial instruments and markets, subject 
to risk limits established and monitored by Corporate ALCO. All 

securities, foreign exchange transactions, commodity 

transactions and deriva
tives used in our trading businesses are 
carried at fair value. The Institutional Risk Committee 

establishes and monitors counterparty risk limits. The credit risk 

amount and estimated net fair value of all customer 

accommodation derivatives at December 31
, 2010 and 2009 are 

included in Note
 15 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this 
Report. Open, ﬁat riskﬂ positions for all trading businesses are 

monitored by Corporate ALCO.
  The standardized approach for monitoring and reporting 
market risk for the 
trading activities consists of value
-at-risk 
(VaR) metrics complemented with factor analysis and stress 

testing. VaR measures the worst expected loss over a given time 

interval and within a given confidence interval. We measure and 

report daily VaR at a 99
% confidence interval based on actual 
changes in rates and prices over the past 250 trading days. The 

analysis captures all financial instruments that are considered 

trading positions. The average one
-day VaR throughout 2010 

was $32
 million, with a lower b
ound of $22 million and an upper 
bound of $52 million. The average VaR for fourth quarter 2010 

was $30 million, with a lower bound of $22 million and an upper 

bound of $38 million.
  MARKET RISK 
Œ EQUITY MARKETS
 We are directly and 
indirectly affected by ch
anges in the equity markets. We make 
and manage direct equity investments in start
-up businesses, 
emerging growth companies, management buy
-outs, 
acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in 

non
-affiliated funds that make similar private
 equity 
investments. These private equity investments are made within 

capital allocations approved by management and the Board. The 

Board™s policy is to review business developments, key risks and 

historical returns for the private equity investment portfo
lio at 
least annually. Management reviews the valuations of these 

investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible 

OTTI. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on 

facts and circumstances of each individual investment and the 

expe
ctations for that investment™s cash flows and capital needs, 
the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. 

Nonmarketable investments include private equity investments 

accounted for under the cost method and equity method. Private 

equity inves
tments are subject to OTTI. Principal investments 
are carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses 

reported in noninterest income. 
 As part of our business to support our customers, we trade 
public equities, listed/OTC equity derivatives and
 convertible 
bonds.
 We have risk mandates that govern these activities. We 
also have marketable equity securities in the securities available
-for
-sale portfolio, including securities relating to our venture 
capital activities. We manage these investments w
ithin capital 
risk limits approved by management and the Board and 

monitored by Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on these 

securities are recognized in net income when realized and 

periodically include OTTI charges.
 Changes in equity market prices may also 
indirectly affect our 
net income by affecting (1) the value of third party assets under 

management and, hence, fee income, (2) particular borrowers, 

whose ability to repay principal and/or interest may be affected 

by the stock market, or (3) brokerage acti
vity, related 
commission income and other business activities. Each business 

line monitors and manages these indirect risks.
 Table 36 provides information regarding our marketable and 
nonmarketable equity investments.
  Table 36:  Marketable and Nonmarketab
le Equity Investments
                                 December 31,
 (in millions)
   2010
  2009  Nonmarketable equity investments:
         Private equity investments:
           Cost method
 $  3,240
   3,808
      Equity method
    7,624
   5,138
    Feder
al bank stock
    5,254
   5,985
    Principal investments
    305   1,423
        Total nonmarketable
               equity investments (1)
 $  16,423
   16,354
                    Marketable equity securities:
         Cost
 $  4,258
   4,749
    Net unrealize
d gains
    931   843          Total marketable
                 equity securities (2)
 $  5,189
   5,592
                    (1)
 Included in other assets on the balance sheet. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, 
Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financia
l Statements in this Report for 
additional information.
     (2)
 Included in securities available for sale. See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) 
to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.
                     79 Risk Management 
ŒAsset/Liability Management 
(continued)
    LIQUIDITY
 AND FUNDING
 The objective of effective liquidity 
management is to ensure that we can meet customer loan 
requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other 

cash commitments efficiently under both normal operating 

conditions and under unpredictable circumstanc
es of industry or 

market stress. To achieve this objective, the Corporate ALCO 

establishes and monitors liquidity guidelines that require 

sufficient asset
-based liquidity to cover potential funding 
requirements and to avoid over
-dependence on volatile, les
s reliable funding markets. We set these guidelines for both the 

consolidated balance sheet and for the Parent to ensure that the 

Parent is a source of strength for its regulated, deposit
-taking 
banking subsidiaries.
 Unencumbered debt and equity 
securities
 in the securities 
available
-for
-sale portfolio provide asset liquidity, in addition to 
the immediately liquid resources of cash and due from banks 

and federal funds sold, securities 
purchased under resale 

agreements and other short
-term investments. The w
eighted
-average expected remaining maturity of the debt securities 

within this portfolio wa
s 6.1
 years at December 31, 2010
. Of the 
$160.1
 billion (cost basis) of debt securities in this portfolio at 
December 31, 2010
, $32.6
 billion (20
%) is expected to ma
ture or 
be prepa
id in 2011 and an additional $20.4
 billion (13
%) in 2012. 
Asset liquidity is further enhanced by our ability to sell or 

securitize loans in
 secondary markets and to pledge loans to 
access secured borrowing facilities through the Federal Hom
e Loan Banks (FHLB) and the FRB. In 2010, we sold mortgage 

loans of $363
 billion. The amount of mortgage loans and other 
consumer loans available to be sold, securitized or pledged was 

approximately $236
 billion at December 31, 2010.
 Core customer deposits
 have historically provided a sizeable 
source of relatively stable and low
-cost funds. Average core 
deposits funded 62.9% and 60.4% of average total assets in 2010 

and 2009, respectively.
 Additional funding is provided by long
-term debt (including 
trust pr
eferred securities), other foreign deposits, and short
-term borrowings. Long
-term debt averaged $185.4
 billion in 
2010 and $231.8
 billion in 2009. Short
-term borrowings 
averaged $46.8
 billion in 2010 and $52.0
 billion in 2009.
 We anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately 
$1.5
 billion in 2011 for ou
r stores, relocation and remodeling of 
our facilities, and routine replacement of furniture, equipment 

and servers. We fund expenditures from various sources, 

including retained earnings and borrowin
gs.
 Liquidity is also available through our ability to raise funds in 
a variety of domestic and international money and capital 

markets. We access capital markets for long
-term funding 
through issuances of registered debt securities, private 

placements and
 asset
-backed secured funding. Investors in the 
long
-term capital markets generally will consider, among other 
factors, a company™s debt rating in making investment decisions. 

Rating agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and 

qualitative factors,
 including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset 
quality, business mix, the level and quality of earnings, and 

rating agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent 

of Federal financial assistance or support for certain large 

financial institutions. 
Adverse changes in these factors could 

result in a reduction of our credit rating; however, a reduction in 
credit rating would not cause us to violate any of our debt 

covenants. See the ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ section of this Report for 

additional information regar
ding recent legislative developments 
and our credit ratings.
 We continue to evaluate the potential impact on liquidity 
management of regulatory proposals, including Basel III and 

those required under the Dodd
-Frank Act, as they move closer to 
the final rul
e-making process.
  Parent
 Under SEC rules, the Parent is classified as a ﬁwell
-known seasoned issuer,ﬂ which allows it to file a registration 

statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity. ﬁWell
-known seasoned issuersﬂ generally include those c
ompanies with 
a public float of common equity of at least $700
 million or those 
companies that have issued at least $1
 billion in aggregate 
principal amount of non
-convertible securities, other than 
common equity, in the last three years. In June 2009, the
 
Parent
 filed
 a registration statement
 with the SEC for the 
issuance of senior and subordinated notes, preferred stock and 

other securities. The Parent™s ability to issue debt and other 

securities under this
 registration statement
 is limited by the debt 
issuance authority granted by the Board. The Parent is currently 
authorized by the Board to issue $60
 billion in outstanding 
short
-term debt and $170
 billion in outstanding long
-term debt. 
During 2010, 
the Parent issued $1.3 billion in non
-guaranteed 
registe
red senior notes. In February 2011, the Parent remarketed 

$2.5 billion of junior subordinated notes in connection with 

Wachovia™s 2006 issuance of 5.80% Fixed
-to-floating rate 
Wachovia Income Trust hybrid securities.
 The junior 
subordinated notes
 were 
exch
anged with Wells Fargo for 
newly 
issued 
senior notes.
  The proceeds from securities issued in 2010 were used for 
general corporate purposes, and we expect that the proceeds 

from securities issued in the future will also be used for the same 

purposes. The P
arent also issues commercial paper from time to 
time, subject to its short
-term debt limit.
  Table 
37 
provides information regarding the Parent™s 
medium
-term note (MTN) programs. The Parent may issue 

senior and subordinated debt securities under Series I &
 J, and 

the European and Australian programmes. Under Series K, the 

Parent may issue senior debt securities linked to one or more 

indices.
 80     Table 37:  Medium
-Term Note (MTN) Programs
                           December 31, 2010
             Debt
 Availabl
e       Date
     issuance
 for
 (in billions)
 established
     authority
 issuance
 MTN program:
             Series I & J (1)
 August 2009
   $  25.0
   21.8
    Series K (1)
 April 2010
      25.0
   24.7
    European (2)
 December 2009
      25.0
   25.0
    Austr
alian (2)(3)
 June 2005
      10.0
   6.8
                                  (1)
 SEC registered.
 (2)
 Not registered with the SEC. May not be offered in the United States without 
applicable exemptions from registration. The Australian MTN amounts are 
present
ed in Australian dollars.
     (3)
 As amended in October 2005 and March 2010.
                 Wells
 Fargo Bank, N.A.
 Wells
 Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized 
by its board of directors to issue $100
 billion in outstanding 
short
-term debt and $125 billion 
in outstanding long
-term debt. 
In December
 2007, Wells
 Fargo Bank, N.A. established a 
$100
 billion bank note program under which, subject to any 
other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may 
issue $50
 billion in outstanding short
-term sen
ior notes and 
$50
 billion in long
-term senior or subordinated notes. At 
December 31, 2010, Wells
 Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining 
issuance capacity on the bank note program of $50
 billion in 
short
-term senior notes and $50
 billion in long
-term senior or 
subo
rdinated notes. Securities are issued under this program as 
private placements in accordance with Office of the Comptroller 

of the Currency (OCC) regulations. 
  Wells
 Fargo Financial Canada Corporation
 In January 
2010, Wells
 Fargo Financial Canada Corpora
tion (WFFCC), an 
indirect wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, 

qualified with the Canadian provincial securities commissions 

CAD$7.0
 billion in medium
-term notes for distribution from 
time to time in Canada. At December 31, 2010, CAD$7.0
 billion
 remained available for future issuance. All medium
-term notes 
issued by WFFCC are unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent.
  FEDERAL HOME LOAN BA
NK MEMBERSHIP
 We are a member 
of the Federal Home Loan Banks based in Dallas, Des Moines 

and San
 Francisco (collectively, the FHLBs). Each member of 
each of the FHLBs is required to maintain a minimum 

investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of 

dir
ectors of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment 
requirements in the event it has concluded that additional 

capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital 

requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment 

requirements outside 
of specified ranges requires the approval of 

the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any 

obligation to increase our investment in any of the FHLBs 

depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential 

future payments to the FHL
Bs are not determinable. 
 81    We have an active program for managing stockholders™ equity 
and regulatory capital and we maintain a comprehensive process 

for assessing the Company™s overall capital adequacy. We 

generate capital internally 
primarily through the retention of 

earnings net of dividends. Our objective is to maintain capital 

levels at the Company and its bank subsidiaries above the 

regulatory ﬁwell
-capitalizedﬂ thresholds by an amount 
commensurate with our risk profile. Our poten
tial sources of 
stockholders™ equity include retained earnings and issuances of 

common and preferred stock. Retained earnings increased 

$10.4
 billion from December 31, 2009, predominantly from 
Wells
 Fargo net income of $12.4
 billion, less common and 
prefer
red dividends of $1.8
 billion. During 2010, we issued 
approximately 87 million shares of common stock, with net 

proceeds of $1.4
 billion, including 28 million shares during the 
period under various employee benefit (including our employee 

stock option plan
) and director plans, as well as under our 
dividend reinvestment and direct stock purchase programs.
 Capital Management
   On April 29, 2010, following stockholder approval, the 
Company amended its certificate of incorporation to provide for 

an increase in the number of shares
 of the Company™s common 
stock authorized for issuance from 6 billion to 9 billion.
  From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to 
repurchase shares of our common stock. Although we announce 

when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically
 do 
not give any public notice before we repurchase our shares. 

Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share 

repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of 

shares we expect to issue for acquisitions and employee benefit 

plan
s, market conditions (including the trading price of our 
stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. The FRB 

published clarifying supervisory guidance in first quarter 2009 

and amended in December 2009, 
SR 09
-4 Applying 
Supervisory Guidance and Regula
tions on the Payment of 
Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank 

Holding Companies,
 pertaining to the FRB™s criteria, 
assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. As 

with all 19 participants in the FRB™s Supervisory Capital
 Assessment Program (SCAP), under this supervisory letter, 

before repurchasing our common shares, we must consult with 

the FRB staff and demonstrate that the proposed actions are 

consistent with the existing supervisory guidance, including 

demonstrating th
at our internal capital assessment process is 
consistent with the complexity of our activities and risk profile. 

In 2008, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to 25
 million 
additional shares of our outstanding common stock. During 

2010, we repurchased
 3 million shares of our common stock, all 
from our employee benefit plans. At December 31, 2010, the 

total remaining common stock repurchase authority from the 

2008 authorization was approximately 3
 million shares.
  Historically, our policy has been to re
purchase shares under 
the ﬁsafe harborﬂ conditions of Rule 10b
-18 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume 

of repurchases. Rule
 10b
-18 imposes an additional daily volume 
limitation on share repurchases during a pend
ing merger or 
acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or 
all of the consideration. Our management may determine that 

during a pending stock merger or acquisition when the safe 

harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best int
erest to 
repurchase shares in excess of this additional daily volume 

limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in 

compliance with the other conditions of the safe harbor, 

including the standing daily volume limitation that applies 

whether o
r not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition.
  In connection with our participation in the TARP Capital 
Purchase Program (CPP), we issued to the U.S. Treasury 

Department warrants to purchase 110,261,688 shares of our 

common stock with an exercise p
rice of $34.01 per share 
expiring on October 28, 2018. On May 26, 2010, in an auction by 

the U.S. Treasury, we purchased 70,165,963 of the warrants at a 

price of $7.70 per warrant. In addition, we purchased 

651,244
 warrants from the open market throughout 
the year. At 
December 31, 2010, 39,444,481 warrants were outstanding and 

exercisable. In June 2010, the Board authorized the purchase of 

up to $1 billion of the warrants, including the warrants 

purchased in the auction. As of December 31, 2010, $455 millio
n of that authority remained. Depending on market conditions, we 

may purchase from time to time additional warrants and/or our 

outstanding debt securities in privately negotiated or open 

market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.
  The Company and e
ach of our subsidiary banks are subject to 
various regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered 

by the FRB and the OCC. Risk
-based capital (RBC) guidelines 
establish a risk
-adjusted ratio relating capital to different 
categories of assets and off
-balance sheet exposures. At 
December 31, 2010, the Company and each of our subsidiary 

banks were ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under applicable regulatory capital 

adequacy guidelines. See Note
 25 (Regulatory and Agency 
Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in
 this Report for 
additional information.
  Current regulatory RBC rules are based primarily on broad 
credit
-risk considerations and limited market
-related risks, but 
do not take into account other types of risk a financial company 

may be exposed to. Our cap
ital adequacy assessment process 
contemplates a wide range of risks that the Company is exposed 

to and also takes into consideration our performance under a 

variety of economic conditions, as well as regulatory 

expectations and guidance, rating agency view
points and the 
view of capital market participants.
  Wells Fargo was a participant in the FRB™s Capital Plan 
Review in December 2010. We submitted a Capital Plan Review 

including proposed future dividends and share repurchase 

programs to the FRB on January
 7,
 2011. We cannot guarantee 
whether or when the FRB will approve our Capital Plan Review 

or what other conditions the FRB may impose on us in order to 

increase our common stock dividend or repurchase shares.
  In July 2009, the Basel Committee on Bank Sup
ervision 
published an additional set of international guidelines for review 

known as Basel III and finalized these guidelines in December 

2010. The additional guidelines were developed in response to 

the financial crisis of 2009 and 2010 and address many o
f the 
weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to 
82    the crisis including excessive leverage, inadequate and low 
quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. The U.S. 

regulatory bodies are reviewing the final international standards 

and final U.S. rulemaking is expected to be completed in 2011. 

Although uncertainty exists regarding the final rules, we are 

evaluating the impact of Basel III on our capital ratios based on 

our interpretation of the proposed capital requirements and 

expec
t to be above a 7% Tier 1 common equity ratio under 
Basel
 III within the next few quarters.
  We are well underway toward Basel II and Basel III 
implementation and are currently on schedule to enter the 

parallel run phase of Basel II in 2012 with regulatory
 approval. 
Our delayed entry into the parallel run phase was approved by 

the FRB in 2010 as a result of the acquisition of Wachovia.
  At December 31, 2010, stockholders™ equity and Tier 1 
common equity levels were higher than the quarter ending prior 

to th
e Wachovia acquisition. During 2009, as regulators and the 
market focused on the composition of regulatory capital, the Tier 

1 common equity ratio gained significant prominence as a metric 

of capital strength. There is no mandated minimum or ﬁwell 

capitali
zedﬂ standard for Tier 1 common equity; instead the RBC 
rules state voting common stockholders™ equity should be the 

dominant element within Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common 

equity was $81.3
 billion at December 31, 2010, or 8.30% of risk
-weighted assets
, an increase of $15.8 billion from 
December
 31,
 2009. Table 38 provides the details of the Tier 1 
common equity calculation.
    Table 38:  Tier 1 Common Equity 
(1)
                                             December 31,
 (in billions)
      2010
     2009  Total equity
   $  127.9
     114.4
  Noncontrolling interests
      (1.5)
    (2.6)
   Total Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
      126.4
     111.8
  Adjustments:
             Preferred equity
      (8.1)
    (8.1)
   Goodwill and intangible assets (other t
han MSRs)
      (35.5)
    (37.7)
   Applicable deferred taxes
      4.3
     5.3
    Deferred tax asset limitation
      -     (1.0)
   MSRs over specified limitations
      (0.9)
    (1.6)
   Cumulative other comprehensive income
      (4.6)
    (3.0)
   Other
      (0.3)
    (0.2)
     Tier 1 common equity
 (A)
 $  81.3
     65.5
  Total risk
-weighted assets (2)
 (B)
 $  980.0
     1,013.6
  Tier 1 common equity to total risk
-weighted assets
 (A)/(B)
    8.30
  %  6.46
                      (1)
 Tier 1 common equity is a no
n-generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agen
cies to assess 
the capital position of financial services companies. Tier 1 common equity includes total Wells Fargo stockholders
' equity, less preferred equity, goodwill and intangible assets 
(excluding MSRs), net of related deferred taxes, adjusted for specified Tier 1 regulatory capital limitations covering deferr
ed taxes, MSRs, and cumulative other 
comprehensive income. Manageme
nt reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and has included this 
non
-GAAP 
financial information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in such informati
on on the part of market participants.
         (2)
 Under the regulatory guidelines for risk
-based capital, on
-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off
-balance sheet items are assigned to one 
of several broad risk c
ategories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amoun
t in each risk category is 
then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from eac
h of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total risk
-weighted assets. 
       83    Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of 
Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this 

Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of 
operations and financial condition because they require that we 

use estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our 

assets or liabilities and financial results. Six of these policies are 

cri
tical because they require management to make difficult, 
subjective and complex judgments about matters that are 

inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially 

different amounts would be reported under different conditions 

or using different
 assumptions. These policies govern: 
 Critical Accounting Policies
   the allowance for credit losses; 
  purchased credit
-impaired (PCI) loans; 
  the valuation of residential mortgage servicing rights 

(MSRs);
  liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses; 
  the fair valuation of financial i
nstruments; and
  income taxes. 
 Management has reviewed and approved these critical 
accounting policies and has discussed these policies with the 

Board™s Audit and Examination Committee.
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
 The allowance for credit losses, which c
onsists of the allowance 
for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit 

commitments, 
is management™s 
estimate
 of credit losses 
inherent in 
the
 loan 
portfolio at the balance sheet date
, excluding 
loans carried at fair value
. We develop and document o
ur 
allowance methodology at the portfolio segment level.
 Our loan 
portfolio 
consists
 of a commercial loan portfolio segment and a 
consumer loan portfolio segment.
 We employ a disciplined process and methodology to 
establish our allowance for credit losses.
 The total allowance for 
credit losses considers both impaired and unimpaired loans. 

While our methodology attributes portions of the allowance to 

specific portfolio segments, the entire allowance for credit losses 

is available to absorb credit losses inhe
rent in the total loan 
portfolio. 
No single statistic or measurement determines the 

adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.
  COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
  The allowance for credit 
losses for unimpaired commercial loans is estimated through the 

applica
tion of loss factors to loans based on credit risk rating for 
each loan. In addition, the allowance for credit losses for 

unfunded commitments, including letters of credit, is estimated 

by applying these loss factors to loan equivalent exposures. 
The 

loss 
factors reflect the estimated default probability and quality 
of the underlying collateral. The loss factors used are statistically 

derived through the observation of historical losses incurred for 

loans within each credit risk rating over a relevant speci
fied 
period of time. As appropriate, we adjust or supplement these 

loss factors and estimates to reflect other risks that may be 

identified from current conditions and developments in selected 

portfolios. 
  The allowance
 also includes an amount for
 estimat
ed 
credit 
losses on impaired loans such as 
nonaccrual loans 
and loans that
 have been modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual 

status.
  CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
  Loans are pooled generally 
by product type with similar risk characteristics. Loss
es are 
estimated using forecasted losses to represent our best estimate 

of inherent loss 
based on 
historical experience, quantitative and 

other mathematical techniques over the loss emergence period. 

Each business group exercises significant judgment in th
e determination of the credit loss estimation model that fits the 

credit risk characteristics of its portfolio. We use both internally 

developed and vendor supplied models in this process. We often 

use roll rate or net flow models for near
-term loss projec
tions, 
and vintage
-based models, behavior score models, and time 
series or statistical trend models for longer
-term projections. 
Management must use judgment in establishing additional input 

metrics for the modeling processes, considering further 

stratific
ation into sub
-product, origination channel, vintage, loss 
type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. 
In 

addition, we establish an allowance for consumer loans modified 

in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. 
 The models use
d to determine the allowance are validated by 
an independent internal model validation group operating in 

accordance with Company policies.
  OTHER ACL MATTERS
  An allowance for impaired
 consumer and 
commercial
 loans 
that have been modified in a TDR 
is meas
ured 
based on an estimate of cash flows, both principal and interest, 

expected to be collected or an assessment of the fair value of 

collateral underlying the impaired loan, if applicable.
 Management exercises significant judgment to develop these 

estimate
s. Commercial and consumer PCI loans may require an 
allowance subsequent to their acquisition. This allowance 

requirement is due to probable decreases in expected principal 

and interest cash flows (other than due to decreases in interest 

rate indices and c
hanges in prepayment assumptions). 
 The allowance for credit losses for both portfolio segments 
includes an amount for imprecision or uncertainty that may 

change from period to period. This amount represents 

management™s judgment of risks inherent in the p
rocesses and 
assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This imprecision 

considers economic environmental factors, modeling 

assumptions and performance, process risk, and other subjective 

factors, including industry trends.
  SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES
  Changes in the allowance for credit 
losses and, therefore, in the related provision expense can 

materially affect net income. The establishment of the allowance 

for credit losses relies on a consistent quarterly process that 

requires 
significant
 management r
eview and judgment
. 
Management
 considers
 changes in economic conditions, 
customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences. 

From time to time, economic factors or business decisions
, such 
84    as the addition or
 liquidation of a loan product or bu
siness unit, 
may affect the loan portfolio,
 causing management to provide or 
release amounts 
from the allowance for credit losses. 
 The allowance for credit losses for commercial loans, 
including unfunded credit commitments (individually risk 
weighted) is 
sensitive to credit risk ratings assigned to each 
credit exposure. Commercial loan risk ratings are evaluated 

based on each situation by experienced senior credit officers and 

are subject to periodic review by an independent internal team of 

credit special
ists. 
 The allowance for credit losses for consumer loans 
(statistically modeled) is sensitive to economic assumptions and 

delinquency trends. 
Forecasted losses are modeled using a range 

of economic scenarios. 
 Assuming a one risk rating downgrade througho
ut our 
commercial portfolio segment, a stressed economic scenario for 

modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment and 

incremental deterioration in our PCI portfolio could imply an 

additional allowance requirement of approximately $10.7 billion. 
 Assum
ing a one risk rating upgrade throughout our 
commercial portfolio segment and a strong recovery economic 

scenario for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment 

could imply a reduced allowance requirement of approximately 

$4.5 billion. 
 The sensitivi
ty analyses provided are hypothetical scenarios 
and are not considered probable. They do not represent 

management™s view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the 

balance sheet date. Because significant judgment is used, it is 

possible that others perf
orming similar analyses could reach 
different conclusions.
 See the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our 

allowance. 
  Purch
ased Credit
-Impaired (PCI) Loans 
 Loans purchased with evidence of credit deterioration since 

origination and for which it is probable that all contractually 

required payments will not be collected are considered to be 

credit impaired. Our PCI loans repres
ent loans acquired in the 
Wachovia merger that were deemed to be credit
-impaired. 
PCI 
loans are initially measured at fair value, which includes 

estimated future credit losses expected to be incurred over the 

life of the loan. Accordingly, the historical a
llowance for credit 
losses related to these loans was not carried over. 
 Management evaluated whether there was evidence of credit 
quality deterioration as of the purchase date using indicators 

such as past due and nonaccrual status, commercial risk rating
s, 
recent borrower credit scores and recent loan
-to-value 
percentages. 
 The fair value at acquisition was based on an estimate of cash 
flows, both principal and interest, expected to be collected, 

discounted at the prevailing market rate of interest.
 We estimated the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition 
using our internal credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment 

risk models, which incorporate our best estimate of current key 

assumptions, such as property values, default rates, loss sever
ity 
and prepayment speeds. 
 Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, Pick
-
a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into 
several pools based on common risk chara
cteristics. Each pool is 
accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest 

rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.
 The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the 
carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) 
is 

referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest 

income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of 

the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash 

flo
ws expected to be collected. The difference between the 
contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to 

be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of 

prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. 
 Subsequent to acquis
ition, we regularly evaluate our estimates 
of cash flows expected to be collected. These evaluations, 

performed quarterly, require the continued usage of key 

assumptions and estimates, similar to our initial estimate of fair 

value. We must apply judgment t
o develop our estimates of cash 
flows for PCI loans given the impact of home price and property 

value changes, changing loss severities, modification activity, and 

prepayment speeds. 
 If we have probable decreases in cash flows expected to be 
collected (ot
her than due to decreases in 
interest 
rate indices
 and 
changes in prepayment assumptions
), we charge the provision 
for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan 

losses. If we have probable and significant increases in cash flows 

exp
ected to be collected, we first reverse any previously 
established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest 

income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remain
ing life 

of the loan, or pool of
 loans.
 Estimates of cash flows are impacted 
by 
changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and 
prepayment assumptions, 
both of 
which are treated as 

prospective yield adjustments included in interest income.
  Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third 
parties, receipt of payme
nts in settlement with the borrower, or 
foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an 

individual loan from a pool based on comparing the amount 

received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any 

difference between these amounts is ab
sorbed by the 
nonaccretable difference for the entire pool. This removal 

method assumes that the amount received from resolution 

approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining 

accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material change in 

rem
aining effective yield caused by this removal method is 
addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each 

pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no 

release of the nonaccretable difference 
for the pool because
 there 
is no difference between the amount received at resolution and 
the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not 

removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be 

deemed TDRs.
 Modified PCI loans that are accounted for 
individually are c
onsidered TDRs, 
and removed from PCI 
accounting 
if there has been a concession granted in excess of the 
original nonaccretable difference.
  85 Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued)
    The amount of cash flows expected to be collected and, 
accordingly, the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss due 
to 
certain decreases in cash flows
 expected to be collected
, is 
particularly sensitive to changes in loan credit quality. The 
sensitivity of the overall allowance for 
credit
 losses, including 
PCI loans, is presented in the preceding section, ﬁCritical 

Acco
unting Policies 
Œ Allowance 
for Credit Losses.ﬂ
 PCI loans that were classified as nonperforming loans by 
Wachovia are no longer classified as nonperforming because, at 

acquisition, we believe we will fully collect the new carrying value 

of these loans and 
due to the existence of the accretable yield. It 

is important to note that judgment is required to classify PCI 

loans as perform
ing 
and is dependent on having a reasonable 
expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows expected 

to be collected, even
 if the loan is contractually past due.
 See the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management
ﬂ section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI 

loans.
  Valuation of Residential Mort
gage Servicing Rights 
 Mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are assets that represent the 

rights to service mortgage loans for others. We recognize MSRs 

when we purchase servicing rights from third parties, or retain 

servicing rights in connection with the sal
e or securitization of 
loans we originate (asset transfers). We also 
have
 MSRs 
acquired 
in the past 
under co
-issuer agreements that provide for us to 
service loans that 
were
 originated and securitized by third
-party 
correspondents. We initially measure and
 carry substantially all 
of our MSRs related to residential mortgage loans at fair value.
    At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of 
MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value 

of estimated future net servicing income.
 The model incorporates 
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future 

net servicing income, including estimates of prepayment speeds 

(including housing price volatility), discount rate, default rates, 

cost to service (including delinquency 
and foreclosure costs), 

escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, 

ancillary income and late fees. 
 To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and 
market value fluctuations, we may use securities available for 

sale and free
-stan
ding derivatives (economic hedges) to hedge 
the risk of changes in the fair value of MSRs, with the resulting 

gains or losses reflected in income. Changes in the fair value of 

the MSRs from changing mortgage interest rates are generally 

offset by gains or 
losses in the fair value of the derivatives and 

the particular instruments used to hedge the MSRs. In addition, 

we also consider origination volume in our risk management 

strategy as it tends to act as a ﬁnatural hedge.ﬂ For exampl
e, as 
interest rates decl
ine, servicing values generally decrease and 
fees from origination volume tend to increase. Conversely, as 

interest rates increase, the fair value of the MSRs generally 

increases, while fees from origination volume tend to decline. See 

the ﬁRisk Management
 Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and 
Market Riskﬂ section in this Report for discussion of the timing 

of the effect of changes in mortgage interest rates.
 Net servicing income, a component of
 mortgage banking 
noninterest income, includes the changes from 
period to period 
in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free
-standing 
derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge our residential 

MSRs. Changes in the fair value of residential MSRs from period 

to period result from (1) changes in the valuation
 model inputs or 
assumptions (principally reflecting changes in discount rates and 

prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to changes in 

interest rates and costs to service, including delinquency and 

foreclosure costs), and (2) other changes, representing
 changes 
due to collection/realization of expected cash flows.
 We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the 
value of our MSRs. The model is validated by an independent 

internal model validation group operating in accordance with 

Company policie
s. Senior management reviews all significant 
assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment speed 
Œ a key 
assumption in the model 
Œ is the annual rate at which borrowers 
are forecasted to repay their mortgage loan principal. The 

discount rate used to dete
rmine the present value of estimated 
future net servicing income 
Œ another key assumption in the 
model 
Œ is the required rate of return investors in the market 
would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine the 

discount rate, we consider the ris
k premium for uncertainties 
from servicing operations (e.g., possible changes in future 

servicing costs, ancillary income and earnings on escrow 

accounts). Both assumptions can, and generally will, change 

quarterly as market conditions and interest rates c
hange. For 
example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount 

rate assumption results in a decrease in the fair value of the 

MSRs, while a decrease in either assumption would result in an 

increase in the fair value of the MSRs. In recent years
, there have 
been significant market
-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment 
speeds and the discount rate. These fluctuations can be rapid and 

may be significant in the future. Therefore, estimating 

prepayment speeds within a range that market participants 

would use in determining the fair value of MSRs requires 

significant management judgment. 
 The valuation 
and sensitivity 
of MSRs is discussed further in 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note
 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Enti
ties), Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note
 16 (Fair Values of Assets 

and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses
 We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) Fre
ddie Mac and Fannie Mae (GSEs), which include the 

mortgage loans in GSE
-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) 
special purpose entities that issue private label MBS, and (3) 

other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for 

investment or priv
ate label securitization. In addition, we pool 
FHA
-insured and VA
-guaranteed mortgage loans
, which back 
securities guaranteed by GNMA.
 The agreements under which 

we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty 

agreements with FHA and VA contain provis
ions that include 
various representations and warranties regarding the origination 

and characteristics of the mortgage loans. Although the specific 

representations and warranties vary among different sales, 

insurance or guarantee agreements, they typically
 cover 
ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in 

the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, 
86    absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing 
the loan, compliance with applicable origination l
aws, and other 

matters. 
For more information about these loan sales and the 
related risks that may result in liability see 
the 
ﬁRisk 
Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management
 Œ Liability for Mortgage 
Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ 
section 
in this 
Report.
  We may be req
uired to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify 
the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 

on loans (collectively ﬁrepurchaseﬂ) in the event of a breach of 

contractual 
representations or warranties that is not remedied 
within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of 

the breach. Typically, we would only be required to repurchase 

securitized loans if any such breach is deemed to have material 

and adver
se effect on the value of the mortgage loan or to the 
interests of the security holders in the mortgage loan. The time 

periods specified in our mortgage loan sales contracts to respond 

to repurchase requests vary, but are generally 90 days or less. 

While m
any contracts do not include specific remedies if the 
applicable time period for a response is not met, contracts for 

mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific 

remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate 

responses to 
repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements 

under which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various 

documents to the securitization trust or investor, and we may be 

obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan for which the 

required documents are 
not delivered or are defective. Upon 

receipt of a repurchase request, we work with securitization 

trusts, investors or insurers to arrive at a mutually agreeable 

resolution. Repurchase demands are typically reviewed on an 

individual loan by loan basis to v
alidate the claims made by the 
securitization trust, investor or insurer, and to determine 

whether a contractually required repurchase event occurred. 

Occasionally, in lieu of conducting the loan level evaluation, we 

may negotiate global settlements in ord
er to resolve a pipeline of 
demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. We manage the risk 

associated with potential repurchases or other forms of 

settlement through our underwriting and quality assurance 

practices and by servicing mortgage loans to meet in
vestor and 
secondary market standards.
 We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to 
various representations and warranties that reflect 

management™s estimate of losses for loans for which we could 

have repurchase obligation, whether or not we cu
rrently service 
those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors 

incorporate estimated levels of defects based on internal quality 

assurance sampling, default expectations, historical investor 

repurchase demand and appeals success rates (where 
the 

investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or 

acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor™s applicable 

representations and warranties), reimbursement by 

correspondent and other third party originators, and projected 

loss severity.
 We establish a liability at the time loans are sold 
and continually update our liability estimate during their life. 

Although investors may demand repurchase at any time, the 

majority of repurchase demands occur in the first 24 to 36 

months following orig
ination of the mortgage loan and can vary 
by investor. 
Most repurchases under our representation and 
warranty provisions are attributable to borrower 

misrepresentations and appraisals obtained at origination that 

investors believe do not fully comply with 
applicable industry 

standards. 
 Although, to date, repurchase demands with respect to private 
label mortgage
-backed securities have been more limited than 
with respect to GSE
-guaranteed securities, it is possible that 
requests to repurchase mortgage loans in private label 

securitizations may increase in frequency as investors explore 

every possible avenue to recover losses on their securities. In 

addition, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, as conservator of 

Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, recently used its su
bpoena power 
to request loan applications, property appraisals and other 

documents from large mortgage securitization industry 

participants, including us, relating to private label MBS in order 

to determine whether breaches of representations and 

warrantie
s exist in those securities owned by the GSEs. We 
believe the risk of repurchase in our private label securitizations 

is substantially reduced
, relative to other private label 
securitizations, 
because approximately half of the private label 
securitizations
 that include our mortgage loans do not contain 
representations and warranties regarding borrower or other 

third party misrepresentations related to the mortgage loan, 

general compliance with underwriting guidelines, or property 

valuation, which are common
ly asserted bases for repurchase. 
We evaluate the validity and materiality of any claim of breach of 

representations and warranties in private label MBS that is 

brought to our attention and work with securitization trustees to 

resolve any repurchase reques
ts. Nevertheless, we may be subject 

to legal and other expenses if private label securitization trustees 

or investors choose to commence legal proceedings in the event 

of disagreements. 
  The mortgage loan repurchase liability at December 31, 2010, 
represe
nts our best estimate of the 
probable 
loss that we may 
incur for various representations and warranties in the 

contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. 
Because 

the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses are dependent on 

economic factors, in
vestor demand strategies and other external 
conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, 

the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requires considerable management 

judgment. We maintain
 regular contact with the GSEs and other 
significant investors to monitor and address their repurchase 

demand practices and concerns. For additional information on 

our repurchase liability, including an adverse impact analysis, 

see 
the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Management 
Œ Liability 
for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ section in this Report
.  Fair Valuation of Financial Instruments
 We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments 

to certain financial instruments and to determine fair v
alue 

disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale, 

derivatives, prime residential MHFS, certain commercial LHFS, 

principal investments and securities sold but not yet purchased 

(short sale liabilities) are recorded at fair value on a recurrin
g basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to 

record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as 

certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held for investment and certain 
87 Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued)
    other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typicall
y involve application of lower
-of-cost
-or-market accounting or 
write
-downs of individual assets. 
Additionally, for financial 
instruments not recorded at fair value we disclose the estimate of 
their fair value. 
 Fair value represents the price that would be
 received to sell 
the financial asset or paid to transfer the financial liability in an 

orderly transaction between market participants at the 

measurement date. 
 The accounting provisions for fair value measurements 
include a three
-level hierarchy for disc
losure of assets and 
liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and 

liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to 

the valuation methodology used for measurement are observable 

or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market
-derived or 
market
-based information obtained from independent sources, 
while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about market 

data. 
  Level 1 
Œ Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical 
instruments traded in active markets. Leve
l 1 instruments 

include securities traded on active exchange markets, such 

as the New York Stock Exchange, as well as U.S. Treasury 

and other U.S. government securities that are traded by 

dealers or brokers in active OTC markets. 
  Level 2 
Œ Valuation is ba
sed upon quoted prices for similar
 instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or 

similar instruments in markets that are not active, and 

model
-based valuation techniques, such as matrix pricing, 
for which all significant assumptions are obs
ervable in the 

market. Level 2 instruments include securities traded in 

functioning dealer or broker markets, plain
-vanilla interest 
rate derivatives and MHFS that are valued based on prices 

for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. 
  Lev
el 3 
Œ Valuation is generated primarily from model
-based techniques that use significant assumptions not 

observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions 

reflect our own estimates of assumptions market 

participants would use in pricing the asset or
 liability. 
Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models, 

discounted cash flow models and similar techniques.
 When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the 
use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable 

inputs. When a
vailable, we use quoted prices in active markets to 
measure fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not 

available, fair value measurement is based upon models that use 

primarily market
-based or independently sourced market 
parameters, including interest rate yield curves, prepayment 

speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in 

certain cases, when market observable inputs for model
-based 
valuation techniques 
are not readily available, we are required to 
make judgments about assumpti
ons market participants would 
use 
to estimate
 the fair value.
 The degree of management judgment involved in determining 
the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the 

availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable 

market para
meters. For financial instruments with quoted 
market prices or observable market parameters in active 
markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair 

value. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets 

are not fully available,
 management judgment is necessary to 
estimate fair value. Changes in the market conditions, such as 

reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary 

market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of 

quoted prices or observab
le data used to determine fair value. 
When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or 

inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based 

primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active market for a 

financial instrument does not exist,
 the use of management 
estimates that incorporate current market participant 

expectations of future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate 

risk premium, is acceptable. 
 When
 markets for our financial assets and liabilities 
become
 inactive 
because 
the level and volume of activity has declined 
significantly relative to normal conditions
, it may be appropriate 
to adjust 
quoted prices
. The methodology we use to adjust the 
quote
d prices
 generally involves weighting the 
quoted prices
 and 
results of internal pric
ing techniques, such as the net present 
value of future expected cash flows (with observable inputs, 

where available) discounted at a rate of return market 

participants require to arrive
 at the fair value. The more active 
and orderly markets for particular
 security classes are 
determined to be, the more weighting we assign to quoted prices. 

The less active and orderly markets are determined to be, the less 

weighting we assign to quoted prices.
 We may use independent pricing services and brokers to 
obtain fa
ir values based on quoted prices. We determine the 
most appropriate and relevant pricing service for each security 

class and generally obtain one quoted price for each security. For 

certain securities, we may use internal traders to obtain quoted 

prices. Q
uoted prices are subject to our internal price verification 
procedures. We validate prices received using a variety of 

methods, including, but not limited to, comparison to pricing 

services, corroboration of pricing by reference to other 

independent market
 data such as secondary broker quotes and 
relevant benchmark indices, and review of pricing by Company 

personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market
-related conditions. 
 Significant judgment 
is also
 required to determine
 whether 
certain assets 
measured at fair value are included in
 Level 2 or 
Level 3. When making this judgment, we consider
 all available 
information, including observable market data,
 indications of 
market liquidity and orderliness, and our
 understanding of the 
valuation technique
s and significant
 inputs used. For securities 
in inactive markets, we use a predetermined
 percentage to 
evaluate the impact of fair value
 adjustments derived from 
weighting both external and internal
 indications of value to 
determine if the instrument is
 classified as Level 2 or Level 3. 
Otherwise, the classification
 of Level 2 or Level 3 is based upon 
the specific facts and
 circumstances of each instrument or 
instrument category
 and judgments are made regarding the 
significance of the
 Level 3 inputs to the
 instruments™ fair value 
measurement in
 its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered 
significant, the
 instrument is classified as Level 3.
 Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements
 consisted of certain asset
-backed securities, including thos
e 88    collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves, private
 collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), collateralized
 debt 
obligations (CDOs), collateralized loan obligations
 (CLOs), 
auction
-rate securities, certain derivative contracts
 such as cr
edit 
default swaps related to CMO, CDO and CLO
 exposures and 
certain MHFS and MSRs.
 Table 39 presents the summary of the fair value of financial 
instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and the 

amounts measured using significant Level 3 inp
uts (before 
derivative netting adjustments). The fair value of the remaining 

assets and liabilities were measured using valuation 

methodologies involving market
-based or market
-derived 
information, collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements.
  Table 39:  Fair 
Value Level 3 Summary
                 
               December 31,
        2010
      2009          Total
          Total
     ($ in billions)
 balance
   Level 3 
(1)
   balance
 Level 3 (1)
 Assets carried
                      at fair value
 $  293.1
       47.9      277.4
     52.0
  As a percentage
                      of total assets
    23    %  4      22     4                           Liabilities carried
                      at fair value
 $  21.2
       6.4
      21.7
     6.9
  As a percentage of
                      total liabilities
    2    %  1      2     1                  
                         
         (1)
 Before derivative netting adjustments.
                              See Note 16 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial 
State
ments in this Report for a complete discussion on our use of 
fair valuation of financial instruments, our related measurement 

techniques and its impact to our financial statements.
  Income Taxes 
 We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its state
s and 

municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we 

operate.
 Our income tax expense consists of two components: 
current and deferred.
 Current income tax expense approximates 
taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includ
es 
income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions.
 We 
determine deferred income taxes using the balance sheet 

method.
 Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability 
is based on the tax effects of the differences between the book 

and 
tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognized enacted 
changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they 

occur.
 Deferred income tax expense results from changes in 
deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods.
 Deferred tax 
assets are re
cognized subject to management™s judgment that 
realization is ﬁmore likely than not.ﬂ Uncertain tax positions that 

meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are 

measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize.
 An 
uncertain tax position i
s measured at the largest amount of 
benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% 

likelihood of realization upon settlement.
 Foreign taxes paid are 
generally applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes 
payable.
 We account for interest and p
enalties as a component of 
income tax expense.
 The
 income tax laws
 of the jurisdictions in which 
we operate
 are complex and subject to different interpretations 
by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. 

In establishing a provision for
 income tax expense, we must 
make judgments and interpretations about the application of 

these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates 

about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income 

in the various tax jurisdictions by th
e government taxing 
authorities, both domestic and foreign.
 Our interpretations may 
be subjected to review during examination by taxing authorities 

and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions.
 We 
attempt to resolve these disputes during the ta
x examination and 
audit process and ultimately through the court systems when 

applicable.
 We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of 
accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and 

their interpretation by the courts and regul
atory authorities on a 
quarterly basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income 

taxes also may result from our own income tax planning and 

from the resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions 

in our estimates may be material to our operating
 results for any 
given quarter.
 See Note 20 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this 
Report for a further description of our provision for income taxes 

and related income tax assets and liabilities.
 89    The following ac
counting pronouncement has been issued by the 
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB):
 Current Accounting Developments
    Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011
-01, 
Deferral of 
the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt 
Restructurings in Update No. 2010
-20.  ASU 2011
-01 defe
rs the effective date for disclosures on TDRs. 
The deferral is intended to provide the FASB with additional 
time to complete a separate TDRs project, with new disclosures 

expected to be effective for second quarter 2011. For more 

information on the disclos
ure requirements for TDRs, see the 
discussion on ASU 2010
-20, 
Disclosures about the Credit 
Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit 

Losses
, in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to 

Financial Statements in this Report.
   This Report contains ﬁforward
-looking statementsﬂ within the 
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

Forward
-looking statements can be identified by words such as 
ﬁanticipates,ﬂ ﬁintends,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁ
seeks,ﬂ ﬁbelieves,ﬂ ﬁestimates,ﬂ 

ﬁexpects,ﬂ ﬁprojects,ﬂ ﬁoutlook,ﬂ ﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ 

ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcanﬂ and similar references to future periods. 

Examples of forward
-looking statements in this Report include, 
but are not limited to, statemen
ts we make about: (i) future 
results of the Company; (ii) future credit quality and 

expectations regarding future loan losses in our loan portfolios 

and life
-of-loan estimates, including our belief that quarterly 
total credit losses have peaked and that ou
r credit cycle is 

turning; the level and loss content of NPAs and nonaccrual loans 

as well as the level of inflows and outflows into NPAs; the 

adequacy of the allowance for credit losses, including our current 

expectation of future reductions in the allowa
nce for credit 

losses; and the reduction or mitigation of risk in our loan 

portfolios and the effects of loan modification programs; (iii) the 

merger integration of the Company and Wachovia, including 

expense savings, merger costs and revenue synergies; (i
v) 
our 
mortgage repurchase exposure and exposure relating to our 

foreclosure practices; (v) future capital levels and our 

expectations that we will be above a 7% Tier 1 common equity 

ratio under proposed Basel III capital standards within the next 

few quar
ters; (vi) the expected outcome and impact of legal, 
regulatory and legislative developments; and (vii) the Company™s 

plans, objectives and strategies.
 Forward
-Looking Statements
  Forward
-looking statements are based on our current 
expectations and assumptions regarding our business,
 the 
economy and other future conditions. Because forward
-looking 
statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent 

uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are 

difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from 

those contemplated by the forward
-looking statements. We 
caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward
-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact 

nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there 

is no
 assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk 
factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual 

results to differ materially from those in the forward
-looking 
statements include the following, without limitation:
  current and futu
re economic and market conditions, 
including the effects of further declines in housing prices 

and high unemployment rates; 
  our capital and liquidity requirements 
(including under 

regulatory capital standards, such as the proposed Basel III 

capital standa
rds, as determined and interpreted by 

applicable regulatory authorities) and our ability to generate 

capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms;
  financial services reform and other current, pending or 

future legislation or regulation that could
 have a negative 
effect on our revenue and businesses, including the Dodd
-Frank Act and legislation and regulation relating to 

overdraft fees (and changes to our overdraft practices as a 

result thereof), debit card interchange fees, credit cards, and 

other
 bank services;
  legislative proposals to allow mortgage cram
-downs in 
bankruptcy or require other loan modifications;
  the extent of our success in our loan modification efforts, as 

well as the effects of regulatory requirements or guidance 

regarding loan m
odifications or changes in such 
requirements or guidance;
  the amount of mortgage loan repurchase demands that we 

receive and our ability to satisfy any such demands without 

having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise 

indemnify or reimburse thir
d parties, and the credit quality 
of or losses on such repurchased mortgage loans;
  negative effects relating to mortgage foreclosures, including 

changes in our procedures or practices and/or industry 

standards or practices, regulatory or judicial requireme
nts, 
penalties or fines, increased costs, or delays or moratoriums 

on foreclosures;
  our ability to successfully integrate the Wachovia merger 

and realize the expected cost savings and other benefits and 

the effects of any delays or disruptions in systems 

conversions relating to the Wachovia integration;
  our ability to realize the efficiency initiatives to lower 

expenses when and in the amount expected; 
  recognition of OTTI on securities held in our available
-for
-sale portfolio; 
  the effect of changes in int
erest rates on our net interest 
margin and our mortgage originations, MSRs and MHFS; 
  hedging gains or losses;
 90     disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor 
demand for mortgage loans; 
  our ability to sell more products to our customers; 
  the effe
ct of the economic recession on the demand for our 
products and services; 
  the effect of the fall in stock market prices on our investment 

banking business and our fee income from our brokerage, 

asset and wealth management businesses; 
  our election to prov
ide support to our mutual funds for 
structured credit products they may hold; 
  changes in the value of our venture capital investments; 
  changes in our accounting policies or in accounting 

standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied 

or inter
preted; 
  mergers, acquisitions and divestitures;
  changes in the Company™s credit ratings and changes in the 

credit quality of the Company™s customers or counterparties; 
  reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties 

and other negative conse
quences from regulatory violations 

and legal actions; 
  the loss of checking and savings account deposits to other 

investments such as the stock market, and the resulting 

increase in our funding costs and impact on our net interest 

margin; 
  fiscal and monet
ary policies of the FRB; and
  the other risk factors and uncertainties described under 

ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ in this Report. 
    In addition to the above factors, we also caution that there is 
no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate 

to 
cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing 
prices and unemployment do not continue to stabilize or 

improve. Increases in loan charge
-offs or in the allowance for 
credit losses and related provision expense could materially 

adversely 
affect our financial results and condition.
  Any forward
-looking statement made by us in this Report 
speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events 

that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from 

time to time, and it is not
 possible for us to predict all of them. 
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward
-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future 

developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law.
 91    An investment 
in the Company involves risk, including the 
possibility that the value of the investment could fall 

substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 

investment could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below 

and elsewhere in this Report, as 
well as in other documents we 

file with the SEC, risk factors that could adversely affect our 

financial results and condition and the value of, and return on, 

an investment in the Company. We refer you to the Financial 

Review and ﬁForward
-Looking Statement
sﬂ sections and 
Financial Statements (and related Notes) in this Report for more 

information about credit, interest rate, market, litigation and 

other risks and to the ﬁRegulation and Supervisionﬂ section of 

our 2010 Form 10
-K for more information about le
gislative and 
regulatory risks. Any factor described below or elsewhere in this 

Report or in our 2010 Form
 10-K could by itself, or together with 
other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition. 

Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10
-Q filed with the SEC in 
2011 for material changes to the discussion of risk factors. There 

are factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Report that 

could adversely affect our financial results and condition.
 Risk Factors
   RISKS RELATING TO CU
RRENT ECONOMIC AND
 MARKET 
CONDITIONS 
  Our financial results and condition may be adversely 

affected 
by difficult business and economic conditions, 
particularly 
if home prices continue to fall or 

unemployment does not improve or continues to 

increase.
  Our financial perform
ance is affected by general 
business and economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, and a 

worsening of current business and economic conditions could 

adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial 

condition. For example, 
significant d
eclines in home prices over 
the last several years and continued high unemployment have 

resulted in elevated credit costs and have adversely affected our 

credit performance, financial results, and capital levels
. If home 
prices continue to fall or unemploy
ment does not improve or 
rises we would expect to incur higher than normal charge
-offs 

and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit 

losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer 

loan performance but also commercial and
 CRE loans, especially 
those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries or 

properties that may experience deteriorating economic 

conditions. 
A deterioration in business and economic conditions, 
which may erode consumer and investor confidence
 levels, also 
could adversely affect financial results for our fee
-based 
businesses, including our mortgage, investment advisory, 

securities brokerage, wealth management, and investment 

banking businesses.
  Financial and credit markets may experience a 

dis
ruption or become volatile, making it more difficult 
to access capital markets on favorable terms.
  Financial 
and credit markets have experienced unprecedented disruption 

and volatility during the past several years. While market 

conditions have stabilized
 and, in many cases, improved, a 
disruption in, or worsening of, financial and credit market 

conditions, or increased volatility in financial and credit markets, 

may adversely affect 
our ability to access capital markets on 

favorable terms and could negati
vely affect our liquidity. We may 
raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, 

which could dilute existing stockholders, or further reduce or 

even eliminate our common stock dividend to preserve capital or 

in order to raise additional cap
ital.
  Enacted legislation and regulation, including the Dodd
-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 

(Dodd
-Frank Act), 
as well as future legislation and/or 
regulation, 
could require us to change certain of our 

business practices, reduce our r
evenue, impose 
additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our 

business operations and/or competitive position.
  Economic, financial, market and political conditions during the 

past few years have led to new legislation and regulation in the 

Unite
d States and in other jurisdictions outside of the United 
States where we conduct business. These laws and regulations 

may affect the manner in which we do business and the products 

and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to 

compete in
 our current businesses or our ability to enter into or 
acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in 

businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, 

intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial 

services industry,
 and adversely affect our business operations or 
have other negative consequences.
  For example, in 2009 several legislative and regulatory 
initiatives were adopted that will have an impact on our 

businesses and financial results, including FRB amendments 
to 
Regulation E, which, among other things, affect the way we may 

charge overdraft fees beginning on July 1, 2010, and the 

enactment of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and 

Disclosure Act of 2009 (the Card Act), which, among other 

things, affe
cts our ability to change interest rates and assess 

certain fees on card accounts. The impact of the Regulation E 

amendments and the Card Act could vary materially due to a 

variety of factors, including changes in customer behavior, 

economic conditions and
 other potential offsetting factors.
  On July 21, 2010, the Dodd
-Frank Act became law. The 
Dodd
-Frank Act, among other things, (i) establishes a new 
Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk 

posed by financial firms and imposes additio
nal and enhanced 
FRB regulations on certain large, interconnected bank holding 

companies and systemically significant nonbanking firms 

intended to promote financial stability; (ii) creates a liquidation 

framework for the resolution of covered financial com
panies, the 
costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving 

covered financial companies; (iii) makes significant changes to 

the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and 

activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting 
proprietary 

trading and private fund investment activities, subject to certain 

exceptions; (iv) creates a new framework for the regulation of 

over
-the
-counter derivatives and new regulations for the 
securitization market and strengthens the regulatory over
sight of 
92    securities and capital markets by the SEC; (v) establishes the 
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection within the FRB, which 

will have sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new 

federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation
; (vi)
 may limit the existing pre
-emption of state laws with respect 
to the application of such laws to national banks
, makes federal 

pre
-emption no longer applicable to operating subsidiaries of 
national banks, and gives state authorities, under certain 

circ
umstances, the ability to enforce state laws and federal 

consumer regulations against national banks
; (vi
i) provides for 
increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (vii
i) revises the FDIC's assessment base for deposit insurance by 

changing fr
om an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities 
to a risk
-based system based on total assets; (
ix) authorizes the 
FRB to issue regulations regarding the amount of any 

interchange transaction fee that an issuer may 
receive
 to ensure 
that it is reasonab
le and proportional to the cost incurred; and 
(x) includes several corporate governance and executive 

compensation provisions and requirements, including 

mandating an advisory stockholder vote on executive 

compensation.
  Although the Dodd
-Frank Act became 
generally effective in 
July
 2010
, many of its provisions have extended implementation 
periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive 

rulemaking by regulatory authorities as well as require more 

than 60 studies to be conducted over the next 
one to two years. 
Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd
-
Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and the 

Company will not be known for an extended period of time. 

Nevertheless, the Dodd
-Frank Act, including future rule
s implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, 

could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of 

our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain 

business opportunities, increase our capital requirements an
d impose additional assessments and costs on us, and otherwise 

adversely affect our business operations and have other negative 

consequences, including to our credit ratings to the extent the 

legislation reduces the probability of future Federal financial 

assistance or support currently assumed by the rating agencies in 

their credit ratings. A reduction in one or more of our credit 

ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds and 

raise the costs of our borrowings substantially and could cause 

creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral 

requirements or take other actions, which could adversely affect 

our ability to raise capital.
  Recently, the Obama Administration delivered a report to 
Congress regarding proposals to reform the ho
using finance 
market in the United States. The report, among other things, 

outlined various potential proposals to wind down the GSEs and 

reduce or eliminate over time the role of the GSEs in 

guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage 

loans,
 as well as proposals to implement reforms relating to 
borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, 

including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can 

guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement 

for borrowers, improvi
ng underwriting standards, and increasing 
accountability and transparency in the securitization process. 

The extent and timing of any regulatory reform regarding the 
GSEs and the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on the 

Company™s business and fin
ancial results, are uncertain.
  Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, 
also could have a material adverse effect on our business 

operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have 

other negative consequences.
  For more inform
ation, refer to the ﬁRegulation and 
Supervisionﬂ section in our 2010 Form 10
-K.  Bank regulators and other regulations, including 

proposed Basel capital standards and FRB guidelines, 

may require higher capital levels, limiting our ability to 

pay common sto
ck dividends or repurchase our 
common stock.
  Federal banking regulators continually 
monitor the capital position of banks and bank holding 

companies. In July 2009, the Basel Committee on Bank 

Supervision published a set of international guidelines for 

det
ermining regulatory capital known as Basel III. These 
guidelines, which were finalized in December 2010, followed 

earlier guidelines by the Basel Committee and are designed to 

address many of the weaknesses identified in the banking sector 

as contributing to the financial crisis of 2008 
- 2010 by, among 
other things, increasing minimum capital requirements, 

increasing the quality of capital, increasing the risk coverage of 

the capital framework, and increasing standards for the 

supervisory review process an
d public disclosure.
  In 2010, the FRB issued guidelines for evaluating proposals 
by large bank holding companies, including the Company, to 

undertake capital actions in 2011, such as increasing dividend 

payments or repurchasing or redeeming stock. Pursuan
t to those 

FRB guidelines, the Company submitted a proposed Capital Plan 

Review to the FRB. The FRB is expected to undertake these 

capital plan reviews on a regular basis in the future. There can be 

no assurance that the FRB will respond favorably to the 

Company™s current Capital Plan Review, or future capital plan 
reviews, and the FRB, the Basel standards or other regulatory 

capital requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we 

utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock 

repurchas
es. Although not currently anticipated, our regulators 
may require us to raise additional capital in the future. Issuing 

additional common stock may dilute existing stockholders.
  Bankruptcy laws may be changed to allow mortgage 

ﬁcram
-downs,ﬂ or court
-orde
red modifications to our 
mortgage loans including the reduction of principal 

balances.
  Under current bankruptcy laws, courts cannot force 
a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by 

primary residences. In response to the current financial 
crisis, 

legislation has been proposed to allow mortgage loan ﬁcram
-downs,ﬂ which would empower courts to modify the terms of 

mortgage and home equity loans including a reduction in the 

principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values. 

This coul
d result in writing down the balance of our mortgage 
and home equity loans to reflect their lower loan values. There is 

also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., 

behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses 

to the
 extent they become unsecured as a result of a cram
-down. 
The availability of principal reductions or other modifications to 
93 Risk Factors 
(continued)
    mortgage loan terms could make bankruptcy a more attractive 
option for troubled borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy 

filings 
and accelerated defaults.
  RISKS RELATING TO TH
E WACHOVIA MERGER
  Our financial results and condition could be adversely 

affected if we fail to realize all of the expected benefits 

of the Wachovia merger or it takes longer than expected 

to realize those be
nefits.
  The merger with Wachovia requires 
the integration of the businesses of Wachovia
 and Wells
 Fargo. 
The integration process may result in the loss of key employees, 

the disruption of ongoing businesses and the loss of customers 

and their business and
 deposits. It may also divert management 
attention and resources from other operations and limit the 

Company™s ability to pursue other acquisitions. There is no 

assurance that we will realize all of the cost savings and other 

financial benefits of the merg
er when and in the amounts 
expected. 
  We may incur losses on loans, securities and other 

acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially greater 

than reflected in our preliminary fair value 

adjustments.
  We accounted for the Wachovia merger under 
the purc
hase method of accounting, recording the acquired 
assets and liabilities of Wachovia at fair value based on 

preliminary purchase accounting adjustments. Under purchase 

accounting, we had until one year after the merger date to 

finalize the fair value adjus
tments, meaning we could adjust the 
preliminary fair value estimates of Wachovia™s assets and 

liabilities based on new or updated information that provided a 

better estimate of the fair value at merger date. 
 We recorded at fair value all PCI loans acquired in the merger 
based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We 

estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and 

prepayment risk models using assumptions about matters that 

are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the estimated
 cash 
flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the 

difference between the pre
-merger carrying value of the credit
-impaired loans and their expected cash flows 
Œ the 
ﬁnonaccretable differenceﬂ 
Œ is available to absorb future charge
-offs, we
 may be required to increase our allowance for credit 
losses and related provision expense because of subsequent 

additional credit deterioration in these loans. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁOverviewﬂ and ﬁCritical 
Accounting Policies 
Œ Purchased Cr
edit
-Impaired Loansﬂ 
sections in this Report. 
  GENERAL RISKS RELATI
NG TO OUR BUSINESS
  Higher charge
-offs and worsening credit conditions 
could require us to increase our allowance for credit 

losses through a charge to earnings.
  When we loan money 
or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of 

losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for 

credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to 

earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our 

assessment of cre
dit losses inherent in our loan portfolio 
(including unfunded credit commitments). The process for 

determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our 

financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective 

and complex judgments about the
 future, including forecasts of 
economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of 

our borrowers to repay their loans. 
 We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan 
portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reser
ved. 
We might increase the allowance because of changing economic 

conditions, including falling home prices and higher 

unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower 

behavior. As an example, borrowers may be less likely to 

continue making payme
nts on their real estate
-secured loans if 
the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they 

are still financially able to make the payments. 
 While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was 
adequate at December 31, 2010, there
 is no assurance that it will 
be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing 

and employment conditions worsen. We may be required to 

build reserves in 2011, thus reducing earnings.
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 
Œ Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ sections in this Report. 
  We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses 

to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, 

industry segment, borrower type,
 or location of the 
borrower or collateral.
  Our credit risk and credit losses can 
increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in 

the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may 

be uniquely or disproportionately affected b
y economic or 
market conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration 

risk in 2009 and 2010 when we incurred greater than expected 

losses in our Home Equity loan portfolio due to a housing 

slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residenti
al 
real estate values in many markets, including the Central Valley 

California market and several Southern California metropolitan 

statistical areas. As California is our largest banking state in 

terms of loans and deposits, continued deterioration in real
 estate values and underlying economic conditions in those 

markets or elsewhere in California could result in materially 

higher credit losses. As a result of the Wachovia merger, we have 

increased our exposure to California, as well as to Arizona and 

Flori
da, two states that have also suffered significant declines in 
home values. Continued deterioration in housing conditions and 

real estate values in these states and generally across the country 

could result in materially higher credit losses.
 94    For more info
rmation, refer to the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ section and Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
  Loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could 

increase our funding costs.  
We rely
 on bank deposits to be a 
low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. We 

compete with banks and other financial services companies for 

deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits 

our funding costs may increase, either
 because we raise our rates 
to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must 

rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs 

reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. As 

discussed above, the integration of Wells
 Fargo and Wachovia 
may result in the loss of customer deposits. 
 We sell most of the mortgage loans we originate in order to 
reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans. 

We rely on GSEs to purchase loans that meet their conforming 

loan r
equirements and on other capital markets investors to 
purchase loans that do not meet those requirements 
Œ referred to 
as ﬁnonconformingﬂ loans. Since 2007, investor demand for 

nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit 

spreads and reducing 
the liquidity for those loans. In response to 

the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more 

nonconforming loans. When we retain a loan not only do we 

keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale 

proceeds that coul
d be used to generate new loans. Continued 
lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund 
Œ and thus 
originate 
Œ new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from 
originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot assure 

that GSEs will not materia
lly limit their purchases of conforming 

loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for 

conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower 

eligibility). As previously noted, the Obama Administration 

recently outlined proposals 
to reform 
the housing finance market 
in the United States, including the role of the GSEs in the 

housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such 

regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the 

GSEs, as well as any effect on the Company™s business and 

financial results, are uncertain.
  Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest 

income and earnings.  
Our net interest income is the interest 

we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less 

the interest we pay on our de
posits, long
-term and short
-term 
debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income is a measure of 

both our net interest margin 
Œ the difference between the yield 
we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits 

and our other sources of fundi
ng 
Œ and the amount of earning 
assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the 

amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest 

income and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can affect our 

net interest margin. Although t
he yield we earn on our assets and 
our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response 

to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the 

other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our 

liabilities tend to be 
shorter in duration than our assets, so they 
may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. When 

interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the 

yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to 

contract until the
 yield catches up. 
 The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our 
yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form 

of loans and investment securities, among other assets. If current 

economic conditions persist, we may contin
ue to see lower 
demand for loans by credit worthy customers, reducing our yield. 

In addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment 

securities for a variety of reasons, including in anticipation that 

interest rates are likely to increase. 
 Changes in 
the slope of the ﬁyield curveﬂ 
Œ or the spread 
between short
-term and long
-term interest rates 
Œ could also 
reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is 

upward sloping, meaning short
-term rates are lower than long
-term rates. Because our li
abilities tend to be shorter in duration 
than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our 

net interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases 

relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. 
 The interest we earn on our loa
ns may be tied to U.S.
-denominated interest rates such as the federal funds rate while 

the interest we pay on our debt may be based on international 

rates such as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without 

a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we m
ight earn less on our 
loans without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This 

could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income.
 We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our 
earnings under various scenarios that d
iffer based on 
assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of 

interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge 

some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We 

also rely on the ﬁnatural hedgeﬂ that our mortgage lo
an 

originations and servicing rights can provide. 
 We do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always 
the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net 

interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially 

if actual condit
ions turn out to be materially different than what 
we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than 

we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur 

significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To 

reduce 
our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment 

and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic 

actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Asset/Liability Manageme
nt 
Œ Interest Rate Riskﬂ section in this 
Report.
  Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of 

our MSRs and MHFS, reducing our earnings.
  We have a 
sizeable portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a 

mortgage loan 
Œ collect principal, 
interest and escrow amounts 
Œ for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we keep the servicing rights 

after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when 

we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by 

other lenders. We initially measure
 all and carry substantially all 
our residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. 

Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing 
95 Risk Factors 
(continued)
    income, calculated based on a number of variables, including 
assumptions about the likelihood o
f prepayment by borrowers. 
 Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions 
and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are 

usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing 

them at a lower rate. As the likelihood o
f prepayment increases, 

the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we 

evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any decrease in fair 

value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease 

occurs. 
 We measure at fair value prime MHFS for which
 an active 
secondary market and readily available market prices exist. We 

also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related 

to residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other 

interest
-bearing securities, the value of these MHF
S and other 
interests may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. 

For example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield 

on these MHFS and other interests, their fair value may fall. We 

may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with 

derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant 

losses from changes in the value of these MHFS and other 

interests or from changes in the value of the hedging 

instruments.
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Manage
ment 
Œ Asset/Liability Management 
Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate 
and Market Riskﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policiesﬂ sections in 

this Report. 
  Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 

quarter to quarter.
  We earn revenue from fees we receive fo
r 
originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. 

When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to 

fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. 

Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase 

throu
gh increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage 
originations usually tend to increase and the value of our MSRs 

usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. 

Even though they can act as a ﬁnatural hedge,ﬂ the hedge is not 

perfec
t, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative 
effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential 

MSRs is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit 

from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans 

would 
generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because 

of economic conditions and/or a deteriorating housing market, 

even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also 

fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough 

to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower 

rates.
 We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge 
our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We generally do not 

hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging 

any 
of the risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring 
sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a 

perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. 

Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly 

correlate with the valu
e or income being hedged. We could incur 
significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be 
periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other 

instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRis
k Management 
Œ Asset/Liability Management 
Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate 
and Market Riskﬂ section in this Report.
  We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or 

reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches 

in contractual representations an
d warranties.
  We sell 
residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs, 

SPEs
 that issue private label MBS, and other financial 
institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or 

private label securitization. We may also pool FHA
-insu
red and 
VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities guaranteed 
by GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans 

and the insurance or guaranty agreements with 
the 
FHA and VA 
contain various representations and warranties regarding the 

origi
nation and characteristics of the mortgage loans, including 
ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in 

the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, 

absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securi
ng 
the loan, and compliance with applicable origination laws. We 

may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 

on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations 
or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 

days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Contracts for 

mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specif
ic 

remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate 

responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements 

under which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various 

documents to the securitization trust or investor, and we may be 

obli
gated to repurchase any mortgage loan as to which the 
required documents are not delivered or are defective. We may 

negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a pipeline of 

demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. If economic 

conditions and the hou
sing market do not recover or future 
investor repurchase demand and our success at appealing 

repurchase requests differ from past experience, we could 

continue to have increased repurchase obligations and increased 

loss severity on repurchases, requiring m
aterial additions to the 
repurchase reserve. 
  For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Liability
 for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ section in this 
Report.
  We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, 

be required to repurchase a 
mortgage loan or 

reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage 

loan, or incur costs and other liabilities if we fail to 

satisfy our servicing obligations, including our 

obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure 

actions.
  We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage 
loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage 

loans owned by investors. As a servicer or master servicer for 

those loans we have certain contractual obligations to the 

securitization trusts, investor
s or other third parties, including, 
96    in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage 
loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable 

securitization or other investor agreement, considering 

alternatives to foreclosure such as loan mo
difications or short 

sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the 

servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. If we commit a 

material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, 

we may be subject to termination if the brea
ch is not cured 
within a specified period of time following notice, which can 

generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified 

percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing 

income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify 
the 

securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a 

servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations 

or any act or omission on our part that involves willful 

misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. For certain invest
ors 
and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to 

repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit 

losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with 

respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obl
igations 
because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a 

servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such 

repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase 

reserve.
  We may incur costs if we are required to, or if
 we elect to re
-execute or re
-file documents or take other action in our capacity 
as a servicer in connection with pending or completed 

foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a 

foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a co
urt were to 

overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the 

foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or 

to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the 

required process was not followed. These costs and
 liabilities 
may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly 

to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In 

addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action 

are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cu
re the defect 
or repurchase the loan. We may incur liability to securitization 

investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of 

mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply 

with state law governing foreclosures. The fair val
ue of our 
MSRs 
may be negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs 

increase because of higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject 

to fines and other sanctions, including a foreclosure moratorium 

or suspension, imposed by Federal or state regulato
rs as a result 
of actual or perceived deficiencies in our foreclosure practices or 

in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage loan servicers. Any 

of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively affect our 

residential mortgage origination or serv
icing business.
  For more information, refer to the ﬁEarnings Performance 
Œ Noninterest Income,ﬂ ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Liability for 
Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ and ﬁ
Œ Risks Relating to 
Servicing Activities,ﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 
Œ Valuation
 of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rightsﬂ sections in 
this Report.
 We could recognize OTTI on securities held in our 

available
-for
-sale portfolio if economic and market 
conditions do not improve.
  Our securities available
-for
-sale 
portfolio had gross unr
ealized losses of $2.7
 billion at December 
31, 2010. We analyze securities held in our available
-for
-sale 
portfolio for OTTI on a quarterly basis. The process for 

determining whether impairment is other than temporary 

usually requires difficult, subjective
 judgments about the future 
financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying 

the security in order to assess the probability of receiving 

contractual principal and interest payments on the security. 

Because of changing economic and market 
conditions affecting 

issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may 

be required to recognize OTTI in future periods, thus reducing 

earnings. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁBalance Sheet Analysis 
Œ Securities Available for Saleﬂ and 
ﬁCurrent Accounting 

Developmentsﬂ sections and Note 5 (Securities Available for 

Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report.
  We rely on our systems and certain counterparties, and 

certain failures could materially adversely affect our 

operations.
  Our bu
sinesses are dependent on our ability to 
process, record and monitor a large number of complex 

transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data 

processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, 

we could be materially adversely
 affected. Third parties with 
which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to 

us, including relating to breakdowns or failures of such parties™ 

own systems. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability 

to operate one or more of our
 businesses, or result in potential 
liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory 

intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect us. 
 If personal, confidential or proprietary information of 
customers or clients in our possession we
re to be mishandled or 
misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, 

reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or 

misuse could include, for example, if such information were 

erroneously provided to parties who are not permitt
ed to have 
the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or 

counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or 

otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. 
 We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems 
arising from 
events that are wholly or partially beyond our 

control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or 

electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, 

disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical 

assets, or events arising fro
m local or larger scale politics, 
including terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses 

in service to customers and loss or liability to us.
  97 Risk Factors 
(continued)
    Our framework for managing risks may not be effective 
in mitigating risk and loss to us.
  Our risk m
anagement 
framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have 

established processes and procedures intended to identify, 

measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which 

we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk
, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and 

reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk 

management framework, there are inherent limitations to our 

risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the 

future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or 
identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, 

we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially 

adversely affected.
  Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortga
ge 

and bond insurers may negatively affect our servicing 

and investment portfolios.
  Our servicing portfolio includes 
certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from 

one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that 

any of these c
ompanies experience financial difficulties or credit 
downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan 

on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with 

another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we 

would repla
ce. We may be responsible for some or all of the 
incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending 

on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and 

other circumstances. Similarly, some of the mortgage loans we 

hold for investmen
t or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a 
mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with 

respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if 

replacement coverage is not obtained. We also have investments 

in municipal bonds
 that are guaranteed against loss by bond 
insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of principal 

and interest on them may be negatively affected by financial 

difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond 

insurers.
 For more information,
 refer to the ﬁEarnings Performance 
Œ Balance Sheet Analysis 
Œ Securities Available for Saleﬂ and ﬁRisk 
Management 
Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ sections in this Report.
  Our ability to grow revenue and earnings will suffer if 

we are unable to sell more produc
ts to customers.  

Selling more products to our customers 
Œ ﬁcross
-sellingﬂ 
Œ is 
very important to our business model and key to our ability to 

grow revenue and earnings. Many of our competitors also focus 

on cross
-selling, especially in retail banking and 
mortgage 
lending. This can limit our ability to sell more products to our 

customers or influence us to sell our products at lower prices, 

reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee
-based 
products. It could also affect our ability to keep exi
sting 
customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to 

modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. 

Increasing our cross
-sell ratio 
Œ or the average number of 
products sold to existing customers 
Œ may become more 
challenging a
nd we might not attain our goal of selling an 
average of eight products to each customer. 
 A worsening of economic conditions could reduce 

demand for our products and services and lead to lower 

revenue and lower earnings.
  We earn revenue from the 
interest
 and fees we charge on the loans and other products and 
services we sell. If the economy worsens and consumer and 

business spending decreases and unemployment rises, the 

demand for those products and services may fall, reducing our 

interest and fee income and our earnings. These same conditions 

may also hurt the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, 

causing us to incur higher credit losses. 
  Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income 

from our brokerage and asset management businesses.
  We earn fee income from managing assets for others and 

providing brokerage services. Because investment management 

fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a 

fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee 

income. Chang
es in stock market prices could affect the trading 
activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we 

earn from our brokerage business. As a result of the Wachovia 

merger, a greater percentage of our revenue depends on our 

brokerage services bus
iness. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Asset/Liability Management 
Œ Market Risk 
Œ Equity Marketsﬂ 
section in this Report.
  We may elect to provide capital support to our mutual 

funds relating to investments in structured credit 

produ
cts.
  The money market mutual funds we advise are 
allowed to hold investments in structured investment vehicles 

(SIVs) in accordance with approved investment parameters for 

the respective funds and, therefore, we may have indirect 

exposure to CDOs. Althoug
h we generally are not responsible for 
investment losses incurred by our mutual funds, we may from 

time to time elect to provide support to a fund even though we 

are not contractually obligated to do so. For example, in 

February 2008, to maintain an invest
ment rating of AAA for 
certain money market mutual funds, we elected to enter into a 

capital support agreement for up to $130 million related to one 

SIV held by those funds. If we provide capital support to a 

mutual fund we advise, and the fund™s investmen
t losses require 
the capital to be utilized, we may incur losses, thus reducing 

earnings.
 For more information, refer to Note 8 (Securitizations and 
Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report.
  Our bank customers could take their mo
ney out of the 
bank and put it in alternative investments, causing us to 

lose a lower cost source of funding.
  Checking and savings 
account balances and other forms of customer deposits may 

decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such 

as 
the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. 
When customers move money out of bank deposits and into 

other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source of 

funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest 

income.
  98    Our venture capital business can also be volatile from 
quarter to quarter.
  Certain of our venture capital businesses 
are carried under the cost or equity method, and others (e.g., 

principal investments) are carried at fair value with unrealized 

gains and 
losses reflected in earnings. Our venture capital 
investments tend to be in technology and other volatile 

industries so the value of our public and private equity portfolios 

may fluctuate widely. Earnings from our venture capital 

investments may be volatil
e and hard to predict and may have a 
significant effect on our earnings from period to period. When, 

and if, we recognize gains may depend on a number of factors, 

including general economic conditions, the prospects of the 

companies in which we invest, whe
n these companies go public, 
the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether 

we are subject to any resale restrictions. 
 Our venture capital investments could result in significant 
losses, either OTTI losses for those investments carried
 under 
the cost or equity method or mark
-to-market losses for principal 
investments. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of 

factors, including the then current market value of each 

investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine 

there
 is OTTI for an investment, we write
-down the carrying 
value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The 

amount of this charge could be significant. Further, our principal 

investing portfolio could incur significant mark
-to-market losses 
espe
cially if these investments have been written up because of 
higher market prices. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management 
Œ Asset/Liability Management 
Œ Market Risk 
Œ Equity Marketsﬂ 
section in this Report. 
  We rely on dividends from our subs
idiaries for 
revenue, and federal and state law can limit those 

dividends.
  Wells
 Fargo & Company, the parent holding 
company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from its 

subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its revenue from 

dividends fr
om its subsidiaries. We generally use these 
dividends, among other things, to pay dividends on our common 

and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. 

Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends that our 

bank and some of our nonbank
 subsidiaries may pay to us. Also, 
our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a 

subsidiary™s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior 

claims of the subsidiary™s creditors. 
 For more information, refer to the ﬁRegulation and 
Supe
rvision 
Œ Dividend Restrictionsﬂ and ﬁ
ŒHolding Company 
Structureﬂ sections in our 2010 Form 10
-K and to Note 3 (Cash, 
Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and Note 25 (Regulatory and 

Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
  Changes
 in accounting policies or accounting 
standards, and changes in how accounting standards 

are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how 

we report our financial results and condition.
  Our 
accounting policies are fundamental to determining and 

unde
rstanding our financial results and condition. Some of these 
policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect 
the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Several 

of our accounting policies are critical because they requir
e management to make difficult, subjective and complex 

judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and 

because it is likely that materially different amounts would be 

reported under different conditions or using different 

assumptions. For a descr
iption of these policies, refer to the 
ﬁCritical Accounting Policiesﬂ section in this Report. 
 From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 

of our external financial statements. 
In addition, accounting 

standard setters and those who interpret the accounting 

standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our 

outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous 

interpretations or positions on how these standards sho
uld be 
applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards 

and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our 

control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how 

we report our financial results and condition. We may be 

requir
ed to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply 
an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case 

resulting in our potentially restating prior period financial 

statements in material amounts.
  Our financial statements are base
d in part on 

assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could cause 

unexpected losses in the future.
  Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we 
are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in 

preparing our financial statements, including in determining 

credit los
s reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair 
value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If 

assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements 

are incorrect, we may experience material losses. 
 Certain of our financial 
instruments, including trading assets 
and liabilities, available
-for
-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, 
private equity investments, structured notes and certain 

repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a 

determination of their fair v
alue in order to prepare our financial 
statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we 

may make fair value determinations based on internally 

developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some 

degree on management judgment. Some of these and other 

assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, 

making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on 

significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden 

illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certa
in loans and 
securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance 

sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such 

valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and 

could lead to declines in our earnings.
  Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon 

announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay 

or have difficulty integrating them.
  We regularly explore 
opportunities to acquire companies in the financial services 

industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing
 of our 
acquisitions, and we typically do not comment publicly on a 

possible acquisition until we have signed a definitive agreement. 
99 Risk Factors 
(continued)
    When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall 
depending on the size of the acquisition, the purchase price 
and 

the potential dilution to existing stockholders. It is also possible 

that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share. 
 We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before 
we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In deciding 

whether 
to approve a proposed acquisition, federal bank 
regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the 

acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future 

prospects including current and projected capital ratios and 

levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management 

and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the 

convenience and needs of the communities to be served, 

including our record of compliance under the Community 

Reinvestment Act, and our effectiveness in comba
ting money 
laundering. Also, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what 

terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be 

granted. We might be required to sell banks, branches and/or 

business units as a condition to receiving regulatory appr
oval. 
 Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us 
not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases 

in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits 

from the acquisition. The integration could result in highe
r than 
expected deposit attrition (run
-off), loss of key employees, 
disruption of our business or the business of the acquired 

company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and 

employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 

Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our 

ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect 

of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in 

acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than 

expected. 
  Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, 
and non
-compliance could result in penalties, litigation 
and damage to our reputation.
  Our parent company, our 
subsidiary banks and many of our nonbank subsidiaries are 

heavily regulated at the feder
al and/or state levels. This 
regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance 

funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, not 

necessarily our stockholders. Federal and state regulations can 

significantly restrict our businesses, and w
e could be fined or 
otherwise penalized if we are found to be out of compliance. 
 The Sarbanes
-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes
-Oxley) limits the 
types of non
-audit services our outside auditors may provide to 
us in order to preserve their independence from us.
 If our 
auditors were found not to be ﬁindependentﬂ of us under SEC 

rules, we could be required to engage new auditors and file new 

financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be 

out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial statem
ents 
and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to raise capital 

and resulting in other adverse consequences. 
 Sarbanes
-Oxley also requires our management to evaluate the 
Company™s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal 

control over fi
nancial reporting and requires our auditors to 
issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. 

We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10
-K, 
the existence of any ﬁmaterial weaknessesﬂ in our internal 
control. We cannot as
sure that we will not find one or more 
material weaknesses as of the end of any given year, nor can we 

predict the effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material 

weakness. 
 From time to time Congress considers legislation that could 
significantly ch
ange our regulatory environment, potentially 
increasing our cost of doing business, limiting the activities we 

may pursue or affecting the competitive balance among banks, 

savings associations, credit unions, and other financial 

institutions. 
 For more inf
ormation, refer to the ﬁRegulation and 
Supervisionﬂ section in our 2010 Form 10
-K and to ﬁReport of 
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firmﬂ in this Report. 
  We may incur fines, penalties and other negative 

consequences from regulatory violations, p
ossibly even 
inadvertent or unintentional violations.
  We maintain 
systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with 

applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory 

frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for
 noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent 

or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time 

systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For 

example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of 

Foreign As
sets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial 
institutions from participating in the transfer of property 

belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and 

designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose 

penalties for inadvertent or unin
tentional violations even if 
reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There 

may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of 

noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such 

a finding may also damage our r
eputation (see below) and could 

restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest 

in our securities.
  Negative publicity could damage our reputation.
  Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from 

negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative 

public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and 

attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory 

consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our 

actual or alleged conduct in any
 number of activities, including 
lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, 

mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate 

protection of customer information, and from actions taken by 

government regulators and communi
ty organizations in 
response to that conduct. Because we conduct most of our 

businesses under the ﬁWells
 Fargoﬂ brand, negative public 

opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.
  100    Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect 
business and economic conditions and our financial 
results and condition.
  The FRB regulates the supply of 
money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in 

large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the 

return we earn on thos
e loans and investments, both of which 
affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the 

value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities 

and MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially 

increasing the risk
 that they may fail to repay their loans. 
Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard 

to predict. 
  Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings
  Wells
 Fargo and some 
of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial, regulatory and 

arbitration procee
dings concerning matters arising from our 
business activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious 

defense in all material significant litigation pending against us, 

there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We 

establish reserves for lega
l claims when payments associated 
with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably 

estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we 

have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of 

resolving a legal claim may 
be substantially higher than any 

amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a 

pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and 

granted, could materially adversely affect our results of 

operations and financial condition. 
 For 
more information, refer to Note 14 (Guarantees and Legal 
Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  Risks Affecting Our Stock Price
  Our stock price can 
fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, in addition to 

those described above, in
cluding:
  general business and economic conditions;
  recommendations by securities analysts;
  new technology used, or services offered, by our 

competitors;
  operating and stock price performance of other companies 

that investors deem comparable to us;
  news rep
orts relating to trends, concerns and other issues in 
the financial services industry; 
  changes in government regulations; 
  natural disasters; and 
  geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or 

military conflicts.
 101    Controls and Procedures
  As required by SEC rules, the Company™s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of December 31, 2010, of the Company™s 
disclosure controls and procedures. The Company™s chief executive officer and chief financial of
ficer participated in the evaluation. 
Based on this evaluation, the Company™s chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the Company™s disc
losure 
controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2010.
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures
    Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a
-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process 
designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company™s principal executive and principal fina
ncial officers and effected by the 
Company™s Board, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial repor
ting 
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. g
enerally accepted accounting principles 
(GAAP) and includes those policies and procedures that:
 Internal Control Ov
er Financial Reporting
  pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositio
ns of assets of 
the Company;
 provid
e reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordanc
e with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of managem
ent 
and directors of the Company; and
 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the 
Company™s 
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
  Because of its i
nherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of chan
ges in 
condi
tions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during any quarte
r in 
2010 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company™s internal control over financia
l reporting. 
Management™s report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth below, and should be read with these limitation
s in mind.
  Management™s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 The Company™s management is responsible f
or establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the 
Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2010, 
using the criteria set forth by th
e Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 
Internal Control 
Œ Integrated Framework
. Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2010, the Company™s internal 
control over financial reporting was e
ffective.
   KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company™s financial statements included in this 
Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company™s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG™s audit report a
ppears on the 
following page.
 102    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders
 Wells
 Fargo & Company:
  We have audited Wells
 Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries™ (the Company) internal control over financial re
porting as of 
December
 31,
 2010, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
Œ Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company™s management is responsible for maintaining effecti
ve internal 
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, in
cluded in the 
accompanying Management™s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to e
xpress an opinion on the 
Company™s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Tho
se 
standards require that we plan
 and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over 
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal contro
l over 
financial reporting, ass
essing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered nec
essary in 
the ci
rcumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
  A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the rel
iability of 
financial reporting and the prepar
ation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company™s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to 
the 
maintenance of records tha
t, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial stat
ements in 
accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 

prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or dete
ct misstatements. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of c
hanges in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may dete
riorate.
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 

December
 31,
 2010, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
Œ Integrated Framework
 issued by COSO.
  We also have 
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 

consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December
 31,
 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
changes in equity
 and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three
-year period ended December 31, 2010, 
and our report dated February
 25,
 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
       San Francisco, Cali
fornia
 February 25, 2011
  103 Financial Statements
     Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
 Consolidated Statement of Income
                       Year ended December 31,
 (in millions, except per share amounts)
    2010
     2009     2008  Interest income
             Trading a
ssets
 $  1,098
     918     177  Securities available for sale
    9,666
     11,319
     5,287
  Mortgages held for sale
    1,736
     1,930
     1,573
  Loans held for sale
    101     183     48  Loans
    39,760
     41,589
     27,632
  Other interest income
    435     335     181    Total interest income
    52,796
     56,274
     34,898
  Interest expense
             Deposits
    2,832
     3,774
     4,521
  Short
-term borrowings
    92     222     1,478
  Long
-term debt
    4,888
     5,782
     3,756
  Other int
erest expense
    227     172     -    Total interest expense
    8,039
     9,950
     9,755
  Net interest income
    44,757
     46,324
     25,143
  Provision for credit losses
    15,753
     21,668
     15,979
  Net interest income after provision for credit 
losses
    29,004
     24,656
     9,164
  Noninterest income
             Service charges on deposit accounts
    4,916
     5,741
     3,190
  Trust and investment fees
    10,934
     9,735
     2,924
  Card fees
    3,652
     3,683
     2,336
  Other fees
    3,99
0     3,804
     2,097
  Mortgage banking
    9,737
     12,028
     2,525
  Insurance
    2,126
     2,126
     1,830
  Net gains from trading activities
    1,648
     2,674
     275  Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for sale (1)
   (324)
    (127)
    1,037
  Net gains (losses) from equity investments (2)
    779     185     (757)
 Operating leases
    815     685     427  Other
    2,180
     1,828
     850    Total noninterest income
    40,453
     42,362
     16,734
  Noninterest expense
             Salaries
    13,869
     13,757
     8,260
  Commission and incentive compensation
    8,692
     8,021
     2,676
  Employee benefits
    4,651
     4,689
     2,004
  Equipment
    2,636
     2,506
     1,357
  Net occupancy
    3,030
     3,127
     1,619
  Core deposit
 and other intangibles
    2,199
     2,577
     186  FDIC and other deposit assessments
    1,197
     1,849
     120  Other
    14,182
     12,494
     6,376
    Total noninterest expense
    50,456
     49,020
     22,598
  Income before income tax expense
    19,001
     17,998
     3,300
  Income tax expense
    6,338
     5,331
     602  Net income before noncontrolling interests
    12,663
     12,667
     2,698
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    301     392     43  Wells Fargo net income
 $  12,362
     12,275
     2,655
                  Less: Preferred stock dividends and accretion and other
    730     4,285
     286  Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock
 $  11,632
     7,990
     2,369
  Per share information
             Earnings per comm
on share
 $  2.23
     1.76
     0.70
  Diluted earnings per common share
    2.21
     1.75
     0.70
  Dividends declared per common share
    0.20
     0.49
     1.30
  Average common shares outstanding
    5,226.8
     4,545.2
     3,378.1
  Diluted average common
 shares outstanding
    5,263.1
     4,562.7
     3,391.3
                  (1)
 Includes other
-than
-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses of $672 million and $1,012 million recognized in earnings ($500 million and $2,352 million
 of total OTTI losses, net 
of $(1
72)
 million and 
$1,340 million recognized as an increase (decrease) to non
-credit related OTTI losses recorded in other com
prehensive income) for the year
 ended 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 (2)
 Includes OTTI losses of $268 millio
n and $655 mi
llion for the year
 ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.
 104    Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
                  December 31,
 (in millions, except 
shares) 
   2010
    2009  Assets 
         Cash and due from banks 
 $  16,044
     27,080
  Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short
-term investments 
    80,637
     40,885
  Trading assets 
    51,414
     43,039
  Secu
rities available for sale 
    172,654
     172,710
  Mortgages held for sale (includes $47,531 and $36,962 carried at fair value) 
    51,763
     39,094
  Loans held for sale (includes $873 and $149 carried at fair value) 
    1,290
     5,733
                       Loans (includes $309 carried at fair value at December 31, 2010) 
    757,267
     782,770
  Allowance for loan losses 
    (23,022)
    (24,516)
   Net loans 
    734,245
     758,254
  Mortgage servicing rights: 
           Measured at fair value 
    14,467
     16,004
    Amortized 
    1,419
     1,119
  Premises and equipment, net 
    9,644
     10,736
  Goodwill 
    24,770
     24,812
  Other assets 
    99,781
     104,180
          Total assets (1)
 $  1,258,128
     1,243,646
  Liabilities 
         Nonin
terest
-bearing deposits 
 $  191,256
     181,356
  Interest
-bearing deposits 
    656,686
     642,662
    Total deposits 
    847,942
     824,018
  Short
-term borrowings 
    55,401
     38,966
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
    69,913
     62,442
  Long-term debt (includes $306 carried at fair value at December 31, 2010) 
    156,983
     203,861
        Total liabilities (2)
    1,130,239
     1,129,287
  Equity 
         Wells Fargo stockholders' equity: 
           Preferred stock 
    8,689
     8,485
    Common stock 
Œ $1-2/3 par value, authorized 9,000,000,000 shares; 
              issued 5,272,414,622 shares and 5,245,971,422 shares 
    8,787
     8,743
    Additional paid
-in capital 
    53,426
     52,878
    Retained earnings 
    51,918
     41,563
    Cumulative other comprehensive income 
    4,738
     3,009
    Treasury stock 
Œ 10,131,394 shares and 67,346,829 shares 
    (487)
    (2,450)
   Unearned ESOP shares 
    (663)
    (442)
     Total Wells Fargo stockholders' equity 
    126,408
     111,786
  Noncontrolling interests 
    1,481
     2,573
        Total equity 
    127,889
     114,359
          Total liabilities and equity 
 $  1,258,128
     1,243,646
              
         (1)
 Our consolidated assets at December 31, 2010, include the following assets of
 certain variable interest entities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle the liabilities of those 
VIEs: Cash and due from banks, $200 million; Trading assets, $143 million; Securities available for sale, $2.2 billion; Net l
oans, $16.7 billion; Other asse
ts, $2.0 billion, and 
Total assets, $21.2 billion.
 (2)
 Our consolidated liabilities at December 31, 2010, include the following VIE liabilities for which the VIE creditors do not h
ave recourse to Wells Fargo: Short
-term 
borrowings, $7 million; Accrued expenses
 and other liabilities, $71 million; Long
-term debt, $8.3 billion; and Total liabilities, $8.4 billion.
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.
 105    Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
                   Consolidated Statement of C
hanges in Equity and Comprehensive Income
                                                                                                                                               Preferred stock
   Common stock
 (in
 millions, except shares)
     Shares
     Amount
   Shares
     Amount
 Balance December 31, 2007
      449,804
    $  450     3,297,102,208
    $  5,788
  Cumulative effect from change in accounting for postretirement benefits
                   Adjustment for change of measurement date relat
ed to pension and
                     other postretirement benefits
                       Balance January 1,
 2008
      449,804
       450     3,297,102,208
       5,788
  Comprehensive income:
                       Net income
                       Other 
comprehensive income, net of tax:
                       Translation adjustments
                           Net unrealized losses on securities available for sale
                       Net unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities
                     Unamortized losses under defined benefit plans, net of amortization 
                 Total comprehensive income
                       Noncontrolling interests
                     Common stock issued
              538,877,525
       781  Common 
stock issued for acquisitions
              429,084,786
       704  Common stock repurchased
                (52,154,513)
       Preferred stock
 issued
      25,000
       22,674
            Preferred stock issued for acquisitions
    9,566,921
       8,071
            Preferred stock issued to ESOP
      520,500
       521            Preferred stock released by ESOP
                       Preferred stock
 converted to common shares
  (450,404)
      (451)
    15,720,883
        Stock warrants issued
                       Common stock dividends
                       Preferred stock dividends and accretion
        67            Tax benefit upon exercise of stock options
                     Stock incentive compensation expense
                       Net change in defe
rred compensation and related plans
                   Other
                         Net change
        9,662,017
       30,882
     931,528,681
       1,485
  Balance December 31, 2008
      10,111,821
    $  31,332
     4,228,630,889
    $  7,273
  Cumulative e
ffect from change in accounting for 
                     other
-than
-temporary impairment on debt securities
                   Effect of change in accounting for noncontrolling interests
                   Balance January 1,
 2009
    10,111,821
       31,33
2     4,228,630,889
       7,273
  Comprehensive income:
                       Net income
                         Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
                       Translation adjustments
                       Net unrealized gains on securit
ies available for sale
                       Net unrealized losses on derivatives and hedging activities
                     Unamortized gains under defined benefit plans, net of amortization
                 Total comprehensive income
                   Noncontrolling interests:
                       Purchase of Prudential™s noncontrolling interest
                     All other
                   Common stock issued
                953,285,636
       1,470
  Common stock repurchased
              (8,274,015)
       Preferred stock redeemed
    (25,000)
      (25,000)
           Preferred stock released by ESOP
                     Preferred stock
 converted to common shares
    (105,881)
      (106)
    4,982,083
        Common stock dividends
                     Preferred stock
 dividends and accretion
          2,259
            Tax benefit upon exercise of stock options
                     Stock incentive compensation expense
                     Net change in deferred compensation and related plans
                   Net change
        (130,881)
      (22,847)
    949,993,704
       1,470
  Balance December 31, 2009
    9,980,940
    $  8,485
     5,178,624,593
    $  8,743
                                  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these stateme
nts.
  (continued on following pages)
 106                                                                                                           Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
                 Cumulative
           Total
         Additional
       other
       Unearned
   Wells Fargo
         paid
-in
   Retained
   comprehensive
   Treasury
   ESOP   stockholders'
   Noncontrolling
   Total
 capital
      
earnings
   income
   stock
   shares
   equity
   interests
   equity
  8,212
     38,970
     725     (6,035)
    (482)
    47,628
     286     47,914
       (20)
                (20)
        (20)
                                    (8)
                (8)
        (8)
  8,212
     38,942
     725     (6,035)
    (482)
    47,600
     286     47,886
                                     2,655
                 2,655
     43     2,698
                                         (58)
            (58)
        (58)
          (6,610)
            (6,610)
        (6,610)
          436             436         436           (1,362)
            (1,362)
        (1,362)
                      (4,939)
    43     (4,896)
                      -     2,903
     2,903
   11,555
     (456)
        2,291
         14,171
         14,171
   13,689
             208         14,601
         14,601
               (1,623)
        (1,623)
        (1,623)
                      22,674
         22,674
                       8,071
         8,071
   30                 (551)
    -         -   (27)
                478     451         451   (61)
            512         -         -   2,326
                     2,326
         2,326
       (4,312)
                (4,312)
        (4,312)
      (286)
                (219)
        (219)
  123                     123         123   177                     177         177   43             (19)
        24         24   (41)
                    (41)
        (41)
  27,814
     (2,399)
    (7,594)
    1,369
     (73)
    51,484
     2,946
     54,430
   36,026
     36,543
     (6,869)
    (4,666)
    (555)
    99,084
     3,232
     102,316
                                     53     (53)
                      (3,716)
                    (3,716)
    3,716
     -   32,310
     36,596
     (6,922)
    (4,666)
    (555)
    95,368
     6,948
     102,316
                                     12,275
                 12,275
     392     12,667
                                         73             73     (7)
    66           9,806
             9,806
     5     9,811
           (221)
            (221)
        (221)
          273             273         273                       22,206
     390     22,596
                                 1,440
                     1,440
     (4,500)
    (3,060)
  (79)
                    (79)
    (265)
    (344)
  19,111
     (898)
        2,293
         21,976
         21,976
               (220)
        (220)
        (220)
                      (25,000)
        (25,000)
  (7)
                113     106         106   (54)
            160         -         -       (2,125)
                (2,125)
        (2,125)
      (4,285)
                (2,026)
        (2,026)
  18                     18         18   245                     245         245   (106)
            (17)
        (123)
        (123)
  20,568
     4,967
     9,931
     2,216
     113     16,418
     (4,375)
    12,043
   52,878
     41,563
     3,009
     (2,450)
    (442)
    111,786
     2,573
     114,359
                                107     (continued from previous pages)
                                                   Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
                 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehens
ive Income
                                                                                                                                                       Preferred stock
   Common stock
 (in
 millions, except shares)
     Shares
     Amount
   Share
s     Amount
 Balance December 31, 2009
    9,980,940
    $  8,485
     5,178,624,593
    $  8,743
                                  Balance January 1, 2010
    9,980,940
       8,485
     5,178,624,593
       8,743
  Cumulative effect from change in accounting f
or VIEs
                   Cumulative effect from change in accounting for
                     embedded credit derivatives
                       Comprehensive income:
                         Net income
                         Other comprehensive income
, net of tax:
                         Translation adjustments
                           Net unrealized gains on securities available for sale
                       Net unrealized gains on derivatives and hedging activities
                       Unamort
ized gains under defined benefit plans,
                         net of amortization
                   Total comprehensive income
                   Noncontrolling interests
                     Common stock issued
              58,375,566
       27  Commo
n stock repurchased
              (3,010,451)
       Preferred stock issued to ESOP
    1,000,000
       1,000
            Preferred stock released by ESOP
                     Preferred stock
 converted to common shares
  (795,637)
      (796)
    28,293,520
       17  Common stock warrants repurchased
                   Common stock dividends
                   Preferred stock
 dividends
                     Tax benefit upon exercise of stock options
                   Stock incentive compensation expense
                   Net change in deferred compensation and related plans
                   Net change
      204,363
       204     83,658,635
       44  Balance December 31, 2010
      10,185,303
    $  8,689
     5,262,283,228
    $  8,787
   The accompanying notes a
re an integral part of these statements.
 108                                                                                                                                                                     Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
                 Cumulative
           Total
         Additional
       other
       Unearned
   Wells Fargo
         paid
-in
   Retained
   comprehensive
   Treasury
   ESOP   stockholders'
   Noncontrolling
   Total
 capital
      
earnings
   income
   stock
   shares
   equity
   int
erests
   equity
                                52,878
     41,563
     3,009
     (2,450)
    (442)
    111,786
     2,573
     114,359
                                                               52,878
     41,563
     3,009
     (2,450)
    (442)
    111,786
     2,573
     114,359
       183                 183         183                                     (28)
                (28)
        (28)
                                    12,362
                 12,362
     301     12,663
                       -         -           45             45     12     57           1,525
             1,525
     13     1,538
           89             89         89                                         70             70         70                       14,091
     326     14,417
                       -     (1,418)
    (1,418)
  375     (376)
        1,349
         1,375
         1,375
               (91)
        (91)
        (91)
  80                 (1,080)
    -         -   (63)
                859     796         796   212             567         -         -   (545)
                    (545)
        (545)
  4     (1,049)
                (1,045)
        (1,045)
      (737)
                (737)
        (737)
  97                     97         97   436                     436         436   (48)
            138         90         90   548     10,355
     1,729
     1,963
     (221)
    14,622
     (1,092)
    13,530
                                 53,426
     51,918
     4,738
     (487)
    (663)
    126,408
     1,481
     127,889
                                109    Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                                           Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
    2009     2008  Cash flows from operating activities:
             Net income before noncontrolling interests
 $  12,663
     12,667
     2,698
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
               Provision for credit losses
    15,753
     21,668
     15,979
    Changes in fair 
value of MSRs, MHFS and LHFS carried at fair value
    (1,025)
    (20)
    3,789
    Depreciation and amortization
    1,924
     2,841
     1,669
    Other net losses (gains)
    1,345
     (3,867)
    2,065
    Preferred stock released by ESOP
    796     106     451    Stock incentive compensation expense
    436     245     177    Excess tax benefits related to stock option payments
    (98)
    (18)
    (121)
 Originations of MHFS
    (370,175)
    (414,299)
    (213,498)
 Proceeds from sales of and principal collec
ted on mortgages originated for sale
    355,325
     399,261
     220,254
  Originations of LHFS
    (4,596)
    (10,800)
    -  Proceeds from sales of and principal collected on LHFS
    17,828
     20,276
     -  Purchases of LHFS
    (7,470)
    (8,614)
    -  Net change in:
               Trading assets
    12,356
     13,983
     (3,045)
   Deferred income taxes 
    4,287
     9,453
     (1,642)
   Accrued interest receivable
    1,051
     (293)
    (2,676)
   Accrued interest payable
    (268)
    (1,028)
    1,634
    Other assets, net
    (19,631)
    (15,018)
    (21,578)
   Other accrued expenses and liabilities, net
    (1,729)
    2,070
     (10,944)
     Net cash provided (used) by operating activities
    18,772
     28,613
     (4,788)
 Cash flows from investing activit
ies:
             Net change in:
               Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements
                 and other short
-term investments
    (39,752)
    8,548
     51,049
  Securities available for sale:
               Sales proceed
s    8,668
     53,038
     60,806
    Prepayments and maturities 
    47,919
     38,811
     24,317
    Purchases 
    (53,466)
    (95,285)
    (105,341)
 Loans:
               Loans originated by banking subsidiaries, net of principal collected
    15,869
     52,240
     (54,815)
   Proceeds from sales (including participations) of loans originated for
                 investment by banking subsidiaries
    6,517
     6,162
     1,988
    Purchases (including participations) of loans by banking subsidiaries
    (2,29
7)    (3,363)
    (5,513)
   Principal collected on nonbank entities™ loans
    15,560
     14,428
     21,846
    Loans originated by nonbank entities
    (10,836)
    (9,961)
    (19,973)
 Net cash acquired from (paid for) acquisitions
    (36)
    (138)
    11,20
3  Proceeds from sales of foreclosed assets
    5,444
     3,759
     1,746
  Changes in MSRs from purchases and sales
    (65)
    (10)
    92  Other, net
    2,800
     3,556
     (5,566)
     Net cash provided (used) by investing activities
    (3,675)
    71,78
5     (18,161)
 Cash flows from financing activities:
             Net change in:
               Deposits
    23,924
     42,473
     7,697
    Short
-term borrowings
    11,308
     (69,108)
    (14,888)
 Long
-term debt:
               Proceeds from issuance
    3,489
     8,396
     35,701
    Repayment
    (63,317)
    (66,260)
    (29,859)
 Preferred stock:
               Proceeds from issuance
    -     -     22,674
    Redeemed
    -     (25,000)
    -    Cash dividends paid
    (737)
    (2,178)
    -  Common stock:
               Proceeds from issuance
    1,375
     21,976
     14,171
    Repurchased
    (91)
    (220)
    (1,623)
   Cash dividends paid
    (1,045)
    (2,125)
    (4,312)
 Stock warrants:
                 Proceeds from issuance
    -     -     2,326
    Repur
chased
    (545)
    -     -  Excess tax benefits related to stock option payments
    98     18     121  Change in noncontrolling interests:
               Purchase of Prudential's noncontrolling interest
    -     (4,500)
    -    Other, net
    (592)
    (553)
    (53)
     Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
    (26,133)
    (97,081)
    31,955
      Net change in cash and due from banks
    (11,036)
    3,317
     9,006
  Cash and due from banks at beginning of year
    27,080
     23,763
     14,757
  Cash and due from banks at end of year
 $  16,044
     27,080
     23,763
  Supplemental cash flow disclosures:
               Cash paid for interest
 $  8,307
     10,978
     8,121
    Cash paid for income taxes
    1,187
     3,042
     2,554
                                                      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. See Note 1 for noncash activities.
 110    See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout the Financial Statements and related 
Notes of this 
Form 10
-K.   Wells
 Fargo & Company is a nation
-wide diversified, 
community
-based financial services company. We provide 
banking, insurance, investments, mortgage banking, investment 
bankin
g, retail banking, brokerage, and consumer finance 
through banking stores, the internet and other distribution 

channels to consumers, businesses and institutions in all 

50 states, the District of Columbia, and in other countries. When 
we refer to ﬁWells
 Fargo,ﬂ ﬁthe Company,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or ﬁusﬂ in 
this Form 10
-K, we mean Wells
 Fargo & Company and 
Subsidiaries (consolidated). Wells
 Fargo & Company (the 
Parent) is a financial holding company and a bank holding 

company. We also hold a majority interest in a r
eal estate 
investment trust, which has publicly traded preferred stock 

outstanding.
 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
   Our accounting and reporting policies conform with U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and practices 

in the financial services industry. To prepare the fi
nancial 
statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make 

estimates based on assumptions about future economic and 

market conditions (for example, unemployment, market 

liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that affect the reported amounts 

of assets a
nd liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
income and expenses during the reporting period and the related 

disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate current 

conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is 

reasonably p
ossible that actual conditions could be worse than 
anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our 

results of operations and financial condition. Management has 

made significant estimates in several areas, including other
-than
-temporary i
mpairment (OTTI) on investment securities 
(Note 5), allowance for credit losses and purchased credit
-impaired (PCI) loans (Note 6), valuations of residential 

mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) (Notes 8 and 9) and financial 

instruments (Note 16), liability fo
r mortgage loan repurchase 

losses (Note 9) and income taxes (Note 20). Actual results could 

differ from those estimates.
  On December 31, 2008, Wells
 Fargo acquired Wachovia 
Corporation (Wachovia). Because the acquisition was completed 

at the end of 2008, 
Wachovia's results of operations are included 
in the income statement and average balances beginning in 

2009. Wachovia's assets and liabilities are included in the 

consolidated balance sheet beginning on December 31, 2008. 

The accounting policies of Wachov
ia have been conformed to 
those of Wells
 Fargo as described herein.
  On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted new accounting 
guidance on noncontrolling interests on a retrospective basis. 

Accordingly, prior period information reflects the adoption. The 

guid
ance requires that noncontrolling interests be reported as a 
component of total equity. In addition, the consolidated income 

statement must disclose amounts attributable to both 

Wells
 Fargo interests and the noncontrolling interests.
 Accounting Standards 
Adopted in 2010
 In first quarter 2010, we adopted the following accounting 

updates to the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) 

Accounting Standards Codification (ASC or Codification):
  Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2010
-6, 

Improving Dis
closures about Fair Value Measurements
;  ASU 2009
-16, 
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets
 (Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) 166, 

Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets 
Œ an 
amendment of FASB Statement No. 140
);  ASU 2009
-17, 
Improvements to Financial Reporting by 
Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (FAS 

167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
); and
  ASU 2010
-10, 
Amendments for Certain Investment Funds
.  In third quarter 2010, we adopted the following ne
w accounting guidance:
  ASU 2010
-18, 
Effect of a Loan Modification When the Loan 
is Part of a Pool That is Accounted for as a Single Asset
; and
  ASU 2010
-11, Scope Exception Related to Embedded Credit 
Derivatives
.  In fourth quarter 2010, we adopted the foll
owing new 
accounting guidance:
  ASU 2010
-20, 
Disclosures about the Credit Quality of 
Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses
.  Information about these accounting updates is further 
described in more detail below.
  ASU 2010
-6 amends the dis
closure requirements for fair value 
measurements. Companies are now required to disclose 

significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value 
 hierarchy, whereas the previous rules only required the 

disclosure of transfers in and out of Lev
el 3. Additionally, in the 
rollforward of Level 3 activity, companies must present 

information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a 

gross basis rather than on a net basis. The Update also clarifies 

that fair value measurement disclosures sh
ould be presented for 
each class of assets and liabilities. A class is typically a subset of 

a line item in the statement of financial position. Companies 

should also provide information about the valuation techniques 

and inputs used to measure fair value 
for both recurring and 

nonrecurring instruments classified as either Level 2 or Level 3. 

We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2010 with prospective 

application, except for the new requirement related to the 

Level
 3 rollforward. Gross presentation in t
he Level 3 
rollforward is effective for us in first quarter 2011 with 

prospective application. Our adoption of the Update did not 

affect our consolidated financial statement results since it 

amends only the disclosure requirements for fair value 

measuremen
ts.
 111 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued)
     ASU 2009
-16 (FAS 166)
 modifies certain guidance contained 
in ASC 860, 
Transfers and Servicing.
 This pronouncement 
eliminates the concept of qualifying special purpose entities 
(QSPEs) and provides additional criteria transferors must use to 

evaluate t
ransfers of financial assets. The Update also requires 
that any assets or liabilities retained from a transfer accounted 

for as a sale must be initially recognized at fair value. We 

adopted this guidance in first quarter 2010 with prospective 

application f
or transfers that occurred on and after 
January
 1, 2010.
  ASU 2009
-17 (FAS 167)
 amends several key consolidation 
provisions related to variable interest entities (VIEs), which are 

included in ASC 810, 
Consolidation.
 The scope of the new 
guidance includes e
ntities that were previously designated as 
QSPEs. The Update also changes the approach companies must 

use to identify VIEs for which they are deemed to be the primary 

beneficiary and are required to consolidate. Under the new 

guidance, a VIE's primary bene
ficiary is the entity that has the 

power to direct the VIE's significant activities, and has an 

obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that 

could be potentially significant to the VIE. The Update also 

requires companies to continually
 reassess whether they are the 
primary beneficiary of a VIE, whereas the previous rules only 

required reconsideration upon the occurrence of certain 

triggering events. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 

2010, which resulted in the consolidation of $
18.6
 billion of 
incremental assets onto our consolidated balance sheet and a 

$183
 million increase to beginning retained earnings as a 
cumulative effect adjustment.
  We also elected the fair value option for those newly 
consolidated VIEs for which our inte
rests, prior to 
January
 1, 2010, were predominantly carried at fair value with 
changes in fair value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, the fair 

value option was elected to effectively continue fair value 

accounting through earnings for those interests. Co
nversely, we 
did not elect the fair value option for those newly consolidated 

VIEs that did not share these characteristics. At January 1, 2010, 

the fair value of loans and long
-term debt for which we elected 
the fair value option was $1.0
 billion and $1.0
 billion, 
respectively. The incremental impact of electing the fair value 

option (compared to not electing) on the cumulative effect 

adjustment to retained earnings was an increase of $15
 million. 
See Notes 8 and 16 for additional information.
  ASU 2010
-10
 amends consolidation accounting guidance to 
defer indefinitely the application of ASU 2009
-17 to certain 
investment funds. The amendment was effective for us in first 

quarter 2010. As a result, we did not consolidate any investment 

funds upon adoption of 
ASU 2009
-17.
  ASU 2010
-18
 provides guidance for modified PCI loans that are 
accounted for within a pool. Under the new guidance, modified 

PCI loans should not be removed from a pool even if those loans 

would otherwise be deemed troubled debt restructurings
 (TDRs). The Update also clarifies that entities should consider 

the impact of modifications on a pool of PCI loans when 
evaluating that pool for impairment. These accounting changes 

were effective for us in third quarter 2010. Our adoption of the 

Update d
id not affect our consolidated financial statement 
results, as the new guidance is consistent with our previous 

accounting practice.
  ASU 2010
-11
 provides guidance clarifying when entities should 
evaluate embedded credit derivative features in financial 

instruments issued from structures such as collateralized debt 
obligations (CDOs) and synthetic CDOs. The Update clarifies 

that bifurcation and separate accounting is not required for 

embedded credit derivative features that are only related to the 

transfer 
of credit risk that occurs when one financial instrument 
is subordinate to another. Embedded derivatives related to other 

types of credit risk must be analyzed to determine the 

appropriate accounting treatment. The guidance also allows 

companies to elect f
air value option upon adoption for any 
investment in a beneficial interest in securitized financial assets. 

By making this election, companies would not be required to 

evaluate whether embedded credit derivative features exist for 

those interests. This gui
dance was effective for us in third 
quarter 2010. In conjunction with our adoption of this standard, 

we recorded a $28 million decrease to beginning retained 

earnings as a cumulative effect adjustment.
  ASU 2010
-20
 requires enhanced disclosures for the all
owance 
for credit losses and financing receivables, which include certain 

loans and long
-term accounts receivable. Companies are 
required to disaggregate credit quality information, including 

receivables on nonaccrual status and aging of past due 

receivabl
es by class of financing receivable, and roll forward the 
allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment. Portfolio 

segment is the level at which an entity develops and documents a 

systematic method to determine its allowance for credit losses. 

Class of 
financing receivable is generally a disaggregation of 

portfolio segment. This guidance was effective for us in fourth 

quarter 2010 with prospective application. Companies must also 

provide supplemental information on the nature and extent of 

TDRs and their
 effect on the allowance for credit losses. Under 
ASU 2011
-01, 
Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about 
Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010
-20, these 
TDR disclosures have been deferred to coincide with a separate 

FASB TDR project, wi
th an expected effective date in second 
quarter 2011. Our adoption did not affect our consolidated 

financial statement results since it amends only the disclosure 

requirements for financing receivables and the allowance for 

credit losses.
  Consolidation
 Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 
the Parent and our majority
-owned subsidiaries and VIEs 
(defined below) in which we are the primary beneficiary. 

Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are 

eliminated in consolidation.
 If we own at least 20% of an entity, 
we generally account for the investment using the equity 

method. If we own less than 20% of an entity, we generally carry 

the investment at cost, except marketable equity securities, 

which we carry at fair value with c
hanges in fair value included 
112    in other comprehensive income (OCI). Investments accounted 
for under the equity or cost method are included in other assets.
 We are a variable interest holder in certain special
-purpose 
entities (SPEs) in which equity investor
s do not have the 
characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the 

entity does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities 

without additional subordinated financial support from other 

parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable
 interest arises from 
contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, 

which change with fluctuations in the 
fair value of the 
entity's 

assets
. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary beneficiary, 

defined as the party that that has both
 the power to direct the 
activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a variable 

interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. A 

variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other interest 

that changes with changes in the 
fair val
ue of the VIE™s 
net 
assets. To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold 

could potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both 

qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size 

and form of our involvement with the VIE. 
We assess whether or 
not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on
-going basis.
  Trading Assets
 Trading assets are primarily securities, including corporate debt, 

U.S. government agency obligations and other securities that we 

acquire for short
-term appreciation or other trading purposes, 
and the fair value of derivatives held for customer 

accommodation purposes or 
risk mitigation and hedging
. Interest
-only strips and other retained interests in 
securitizations that can be contractually prepaid or otherw
ise 
settled in a way that the holder would not recover substantially 

all of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. 

Trading assets are carried at fair value, with realized and 

unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. 
  Securities
 SECURITIES AVAILABLE
 FOR SALE
  Debt securities that we 
might not hold until maturity and marketable equity securities 

are classified as securities available for sale and reported at fair 

value. Unrealized gains and losses, after applicable taxes
, are 
reported in cumulative OCI. Fair value measurement is based 

upon quoted prices in active markets, if available. If quoted 

prices in active markets are not available, fair values are 

measured using independent pricing models or other model
-based valua
tion techniques such as the present value of future 
cash flows, adjusted for the security's credit rating, prepayment 

assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions 

and market liquidity. See Note 16 for more information on fair 

value measure
ment of our securities.
  We conduct OTTI analysis on a quarterly basis or more often 
if a potential loss
-triggering event occurs. The initial indicator of 
OTTI for both debt and equity securities is a decline in market 

value below the amount recorded for a
n investment and the 
severity and duration of the decline.
  For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the 
fair value below amortized cost basis, we recognize OTTI if we 

(1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than 

not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of 
its amortized cost basis, or (3) we do not expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of the security.
  Estimating recovery of the amortized cost basis of a debt 
security is based up
on an assessment of the cash flows expected 
to be collected. If the cash flows expected to be collected are less 

than amortized cost, OTTI is considered to have occurred. In 

performing an assessment of the cash flows expected to be 

collected, we consider a
ll relevant information including:
  the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has 

been less than the amortized cost basis;
  the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the 

security;
  the cause of the price decline, such as the g
eneral level of 

interest rates or adverse conditions specifically related to 

the security, an industry or a geographic area;
  the issuer's financial condition, near
-term prospects and 
ability to service the debt;
  the payment structure of the debt security a
nd the 

likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that 

increase in the future;
  for asset
-backed securities, the credit performance of the 
underlying collateral, including delinquency rates, level of 

non
-performing assets, cumulative losses to dat
e, collateral 
value and the remaining credit enhancement compared with 

expected credit losses; 
  any change in rating agencies' credit ratings at evaluation 

date from acquisition date and any likely imminent action; 
  independent analyst reports and forecast
s, sector credit 
ratings and other independent market data; and 
  recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to 

the balance sheet date.
   If we intend to sell the security, or if it is more likely than not 
we will be required to sell the sec
urity before recovery, an OTTI 
write
-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire 
difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the 

security. For debt securities that are considered other
-than
-temporarily impaired that we do not inten
d to sell or it is more 
likely than not that we will not be required to sell before 

recovery, the OTTI write
-down is separated into an amount 

representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and 

the amount related to all other factors, which 
is recognized in 

OCI. The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to 

the difference between the debt security's cost basis and the 

present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the 

security's effective yield
. The remaining difference between the 
security™s fair value and the present value of future expected cash 

flows is due to factors that are not credit
-related and, therefore
, are recognized in OCI. We believe that we will fully collect the 

carrying value of securities on which w
e have recorded a non
-credit
-related impairment in OCI
.  We hold investments in perpet
ual preferred securities (PPS) 
that are structured in equity form, but have many of the 

characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows 

in the form of 
dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to 

debt securities and pricing like long
-term callable bonds.
  Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate 
PPS for OTTI using a model similar to the model we use for debt 
113 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued)
    securities as de
scribed above. Among the factors we consider in 
our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of 
deterioration in the credit of the issuer as indicated by a decline 

in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment 

grade and the esti
mated recovery period. Additionally, in 
determining if there was evidence of credit deterioration, we 

evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, 

(2) the period of time for which the decline in fair value has 

existed, and (3) the fina
ncial condition and near
-term prospects 
of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence 

the operations of the issuer. We consider PPS to be other
-than
-temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to be collected are 

insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe 

the security will recover within the estimated recovery period. 

None of our investments in PPS that have not been impaired 

have been downgraded below investment grade subsequent to 

purchase, and we believe that the
re are no factors to suggest that 

we will not fully realize our investment in these instruments over 

a reasonable recovery period. OTTI write
-downs of PPS are 
recognized in earnings equal to the difference between the cost 

basis and fair value of the secur
ity.
  For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI 
evaluations focus on whether evidence exists that supports 

recovery of the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent 

with temporary impairment. This evaluation considers the 

severity of and length of time fair value is below cost, our intent 

and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the 

fair value of the security, and the investee's financial condition, 

capital strength, and near
-term prospects.
  The securities portfolio is 
an integral part of our 
asset/liability management process. We manage these 

investments to provide liquidity, manage interest rate risk and 

maximize portfolio yield within capital risk limits approved by 

management and the Board of Directors and monitored 
by the 

Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate 

ALCO). We recognize realized gains and losses on the sale of 

these securities in noninterest income using the specific 

identification method.
  Unamortized premiums and discounts are recognize
d in 
interest income over the contractual life of the security using the 

interest method. As principal repayments are received on 

securities (i.e., primarily mortgage
-backed securities (MBS)) a 

proportionate amount of the related premium or discount is 

rec
ognized in income so that the effective interest rate on the 
remaining portion of the security continues unchanged.
  NONMARKETABLE EQUITY
 SECURITIES
  Nonmarketable equity 
securities include venture capital equity securities that are not 

publicly traded and
 securities acquired for various purposes, 
such as to meet regulatory requirements (for example, Federal 

Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock). 

These securities are accounted for under the cost or equity 

method and are included in other ass
ets. We review those assets 
accounted for under the cost or equity method at least quarterly 

for possible OTTI. Our review typically includes an analysis of 

the facts and circumstances of each investment, the expectations 

for the investment's cash flows an
d capital needs, the viability of 
its business model and our exit strategy. We reduce the asset 
value when we consider declines in value to be other than 

temporary. We recognize the estimated loss as a loss from equity 

investments in noninterest income. 
  Nonmarketable equity securities also include 
principal 
investments, which include certain public equity and non
-public 
securities and certain investments in private equity funds. 

Principal investments are recorded at fair value with realized 

and unrealized
 gains and losses included in gains and losses 
from equity investments in noninterest income and are included 

in other assets on the balance sheet. In situations where a 

portion of an investment in a non
-public security or fund is sold, 
we recognize a real
ized gain or loss on the portion sold and an 
unrealized gain or loss on the portion retained.
  Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements
 Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold 

under repurchase agreements are accounted for as collat
eralized 
financing transactions and are recorded at the acquisition or sale 

price plus accrued interest. It is our policy to take possession of 

securities purchased under resale agreements, which are 

primarily U.S. Government and Government agency securiti
es. 
We monitor the market value of securities purchased and sold, 

and obtain collateral from or return it to counterparties when 

appropriate. These financing transactions do not create material 

credit risk given the collateral provided and the related 

moni
toring process.
  Mortgages Held for Sale
 Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and 

residential mortgages originated for sale and securitization in 

the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale 

as whole loans. We elect the fai
r value option for substantially all 
residential MHFS (see Note 16). The remaining residential 

MHFS are held at the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM), 

and are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis. Commercial 

MHFS are held at LOCOM and are valued on a
n individual loan 

basis.
  Gains and losses on MHFS are recorded in mortgage banking 
noninterest income.
 Direct loan origination costs and fees 
for 
MHFS under fair value option are recognized in mortgage 

banking noninterest income at origination. For MHFS r
ecorded 
at LOCOM, loan costs and fees
 are deferred at origination and 
are recognized in mortgage banking noninterest income at time 

of sale. Interest income on MHFS for which the fair value option 

is elected is calculated based upon the note rate of the lo
an and 

is recorded to interest income.
  Our lines of business are authorized to originate held
-for
-investment loans that meet or exceed established loan product 

profitability criteria, including minimum positive net interest 

margin spreads in excess of fun
ding costs. When a 

determination is made at the time of commitment to originate 

loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans 

to maturity or for the ﬁforeseeable future,ﬂ subject to periodic 

review under our corporate asset/liability m
anagement process. 
In determining the ﬁforeseeable futureﬂ for these loans, 

management considers (1) the current economic environment 

and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current 

business plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivabl
e, 
114    including its expected life, and (4) our current financial 
condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core 

banking business of managing the spread between the yield on 

our assets and the cost of our funds, loans are periodically 

reevaluated to
 determine if our minimum net interest margin 
spreads continue to meet our profitability objectives. If 

subsequent changes in interest rates significantly impact the 

ongoing profitability of certain loan products, we may 

subsequently change our intent to h
old these loans, and we 
would take actions to sell such loans in response to the 

Corporate ALCO directives to reposition our balance sheet 

because of the changes in interest rates. These directives identify 

both the type of loans to be sold and the weighted average 

coupon rate of such loans no longer meeting our ongoing 

investment criteria. Upon the issuance of such directives, we 

immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS portfolio at 

LOCOM.
  Loans Held for Sale
 Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at LOCOM or at fair value 

for certain portfolios that we intend to hold for trading purposes. 

Generally, consumer loans are valued on an aggregate portfolio 

basis, and commercial loans are valued on an individual loan 

basis. Gains and losses on LHFS are recor
ded in other 
noninterest income. For LHFS recorded at LOCOM, direct loan 

origination costs and fees are deferred at origination and are 

recognized in other noninterest income at time of sale. For loans 

recorded at fair value, direct loan origination costs and fees are 

recorded in other noninterest income at origination. The fair 

value of LHFS is based on what secondary markets are currently 

offering for portfolios with similar characteristics, and related 

gains and losses are recorded in noninterest income.
  Loans
 Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of 

any unearned income, cumulative charge
-offs, unamortized 

deferred fees and costs on originated loans and unamortized 

premiums or discounts on purchased loans. PCI loans are 

reported 
net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. 

See the ﬁPurchased Credit
-Impaired Loansﬂ section in this Note 
for our accounting policy for PCI loans.
  Unearned income, deferred fees and costs, and discounts and 
premiums are amortized to interest in
come over the contractual 

life of the loan using the interest method. 
Loan commitment fees 

are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on 

a straight
-line basis over the commitment period.
 Loans also include direct financing leases that are
 recorded at 
the aggregate of minimum lease payments receivable plus the 

estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned 

income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing 

leases, are recorded net of related nonrecourse debt. Lea
sing 
income is recognized as a constant percentage of outstanding 

lease financing balances over the lease terms in interest income.
  NONACCRUAL AND PAST 
DUE LOANS
  We generally place loans 
on nonaccrual status when: 
  the full and timely collection of inter
est or principal 
becomes uncertain; 
  they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1
-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest 

or principal, unless both well
-secured and in the process of 
collection; or 
  part of the principal
 balance has been charged off and no 
restructuring has occurred. 
  PCI loans are written down at acquisition to fair value using 
an estimate of cash flows deemed to be collectible. Accordingly, 

such loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even though 

they may be contractually past due because we expect to fully 

collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new 

cost basis arising out of purchase accounting).
  When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the 
accrued unpaid interest
 receivable against interest income and 
amortization of any net deferred fees is suspended. A loan will 

remain in accruing status provided it is both well
-secured and in 
the process of collection. If the ultimate collectability of a loan is 

in doubt and th
e loan is on nonaccrual, the cost recovery method 
is used and cash collected is applied to first reduce the principal 

outstanding.
 Generally, we return a loan to accrual status when 
all delinquent interest and principal become current under the 

terms of th
e loan agreement and collectability of remaining 
principal and interest is no longer doubtful. 
  For modified loans, we underwrite at the time of a 
restructuring to determine if there is sufficient evidence of 

sustained repayment capacity based on the bo
rr
ower™s 
financial 
strength, including 
documented income, debt to income ratios 

and other factors.
 If the borrower has demonstrated 
performance under the previous terms and the underwriting 

process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the 

restruct
ured terms, the loan will remain in accruing status.
 When a 
loan classified as a 
TDR performs in accordance with its 

modified terms, the loan either continues to accrue interest (for 

performing loans) or will return to accrual status after the 

borrower dem
onstrates a sustained period of performance 
(generally six consecutive months of payments, or equivalent, 

inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to the 

modification).
 Loans will be placed on nonaccrual status and a 
corresponding charge
-off is recorde
d if we believe it is probable 
that principal and interest contractually due under the modified 

terms of the agreement will not be collectible.
  Generally, consumer loans not secured by real estate or autos 
are placed on nonaccrual status only when part of
 the principal 
has been charged off. Loans are fully charged off or charged 

down to net realizable value (fair value of collateral less 

estimated costs to sell) when deemed uncollectible due to 

bankruptcy or other factors, or when they reach a defined 

numb
er of days past due based on loan product, industry 
practice, country, terms and other factors.
  Our loans are considered past due when contractually 
required principal or interest payments have not been made on 

the due dates. 
  LOAN CHARGE
-OFF POLICIES
  
For commercial loans, we 
generally fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value 

for loans secured by collateral when: 
  management judges the loan to be uncollectible;
 115 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued)
     repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable 
time frames;
  the loan ha
s been classified as a loss by either our internal 
loan review process or our banking regulatory agencies;
  the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes 

evident owing to a lack of assets; or
  the loan is 180 days past due unless both well
-secured a
nd 
in the process of collection. 
 For consumer loans, our charge
-off policies are as follows: 
  1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages 
Œ We generally 
charge down to net realizable value when the loan is 

180
 days past due.
  Auto loans 
Œ We generally fully
 charge off when the loan is 
120 days past due.
  Credit card loans 
Œ We generally fully charge off when the 
loan is 180 days past due.
  Unsecured loans (closed end) 
Œ We generally charge off 
when the loan is 120 days past due.
  Unsecured loans (open end) 
Œ We
 generally charge off when 
the loan is 180 days past due.
  Other secured loans 
Œ We generally fully or partially charge 
down to net realizable value when the loan is 120 days past 

due.
  IMPAIRED LOANS
  We consider a loan to be impaired when, 
based on curren
t information and events, we determine that we 

will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan 

contract, including scheduled interest payments. Our impaired 

loans include commercial
 and industrial
, commercial real estate 
(CRE), and foreig
n loans on nonaccrual status 
for which we 

determine that we will not be able to collect all amounts due 
and 

consumer, commercial
 and industrial
, CRE, and foreign loans 
modified in a TDR, on both accrual and nonaccrual status
.  When we identify a loan as im
paired, we measure the 
impairment based on the present value of expected future cash 

flows, discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate.
 When 
collateral is the sole source of repayment for the loan, we may 

measure impairment based on th
e fair value of
 the collateral. 
If 
foreclosure is probable, we use the current fair value of the 

collateral less selling costs, instead of discounted cash flows.
  If we determine that the value of an impaired loan is less than 
the recorded investment in the loan (net of previous charge
-offs, 
deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or 

discount), we recognize impairment. When the value of an 

impaired loan is calculated by discounting expected cash flows, 

interest income is recognized using the loan™s effective i
nterest 
rate over the remaining life of the loan.
  TROUBLED DEBT RESTRU
CTURINGS (TDR
s)  In situations 
where, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower™s 

financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an 

insignificant period of time 
to the borrower that
 we would not 
otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. We 

strive to identify borrowers in financial difficulty early and work 

with them to modify 
their loan to mo
re affordable terms before it
 reaches nonaccrual statu
s. These modified terms may include 
rate reductions, principal forgiveness, 
term extensions, 
payment 
forbearance and other 
actions intended to minimize our
 economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of the 

collateral. For modifications where we
 forgive principal, the 
entire amount of such principal forgiveness is immediately 

charged off. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired
 loans.
    PURCHASED CREDIT
-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
  Loans acquired 
in a transfer, including business combinations,
 where there is 
evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is 

probable at the date of acquisition that we will not collect all 

contractually required principal and interest payments are 

accounted for as PCI loans. PCI loans are initially rec
orded at 
fair value, which includes estimated future credit losses expected 

to be incurred over the life of the loan. Accordingly, the historical 

allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried 

over. Some loans that otherwise meet the def
inition as credit
-impaired are specifically excluded from the PCI loan portfolios, 

such as revolving loans where the borrower still has revolving 

privileges.
  Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase 
date may include statistics such as p
ast due and nonaccrual 
status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores 

and recent loan
-to-value percentages. Generally, acquired loans 
that meet our definition for nonaccrual status are considered to 

be credit
-impaired.
  Substantially all co
mmercial
 and industrial
, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for a
s individual loan
s. Conversely, 
Pick
-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans 
have been
 aggregated 
into 
several 
pools based on common risk characteristics.
 Each 
pool is accounted for as a sing
le asset with a single composite 
interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.
  Accounting for PCI loans involves estimating fair value, at 
acquisition, using the principal and interest cash flows expected 

to be collected discounted at the prev
ailing market rate of 
interest. The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over 

the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is 

referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest 

income using an effective yield method
 over the remaining life of 
the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash 

flows to be collected. The difference between contractually 

required payments and the cash flows expected to b
e collected at 
acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred 

to as the nonaccretable difference.
  Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our 
estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. If we have
 
probable decreases in cash
 flows
 expected to be collected 
(other 
than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in 

prepayment assumptions), we charge the provision for credit 

losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If 

we have probable and sign
ificant increases in cash flows 
expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously 

established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest 

income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life 

of the loan, or pool of loans. Estim
ates of cash flows are 
impacted by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate 
116    loans and prepayment assumptions, both of which are treated as 
prospective yield adjustments included in interest income.
  Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans
 to third 
parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or 

foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans, gains or 

losses on sales to third parties are included in noninterest 

income and gains or losses as a result of a settlement
 with the 
borrower are included in interest income. 
Our policy is to 

remove an individual loan from a pool based on comparing the 

amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. 

Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the 

nonac
cretable difference for the entire pool. This removal 
method assumes that the amount received from resolution 

approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining 

accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material change in 

remaining effective yi
eld caused by this removal method is 
addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each 

pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no 

release of the nonaccretable difference 
for the pool because
 there 
is no difference betw
een the amount received at resolution and 
the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not 

removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be 

deemed TDRs.
 Modified PCI loans that are accounted for 
individually are considered TDRs, 
and
 removed from PCI 
accounting
 if there has been a concession granted in excess of 
the original nonaccretable difference.
   FORECLOSED ASSETS
  Foreclosed
 assets obtained through our 
lending activities primarily include real estate. These assets are 

recorded 
at net realizable value with a charge to the allowance 
for credit losses at foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after 

foreclosure to finalize determination
 of net realizable value. 
Thereafter, changes in net realizable value are recorded to 

noninterest exp
ense. The net realizable value of these assets is 
reviewed and updated periodically depending on the type of 

property.
  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT
 LOSSES
  The
 allowance for credit 
losses
, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the 
allowance for unfu
nded credit commitments,
 is management™s 
estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the 

balance sheet date. 
  Securitizations and Beneficial Interests
 In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the 

applicable criteria to be acc
ounted for as a sale, assets are sold to 
an entity referred to as an SPE, which then issues beneficial 

interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests 

collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain up to 

90% of the beneficial interes
ts issued by the entity. Additionally, 
from time to time, we may also re
-securitize certain assets in a 
new securitization transaction.
  The assets and liabilities transferred to an SPE are excluded 
from our consolidated balance sheet if the transfer quali
fies as a 
sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE.
  For transfers of financial assets recorded as sales, we 
recognize and initially measure at fair value all assets obtained 

(including beneficial interests) and liabilities incurred. We 
record a
 gain or loss in other fee income for the difference 
between the carrying amount and the fair value of the assets 

sold. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, quoted 

market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are not 

available, then the 
fair value is estimated using discounted cash 
flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments 

and discount rates that are corroborated by and independently 

verified against market observable data, where possible. 

Retained interests from secur
itizations with off
-balance sheet 
entities, including SPEs and VIEs where we are not the primary 

beneficiary, are classified as available for sale securities, trading 

account assets or loans, and are accounted for as described 

herein.
  Mortgage Servicing R
ights (MSRs)
 We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or 

MSRs, as assets whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs 

result from a sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset 

transfers). We initially record all of our MSRs at fair
 value. 
Subsequently, residential loan MSRs are carried at either fair 

value or LOCOM based on our strategy for managing interest 

rate risk. Currently, substantially all of our residential loan 

MSRs are carried at fair value. All of our MSRs related to our
 commercial mortgage loans are subsequently measured at 

LOCOM.
 We base the fair value of MSRs on the present value of 
estimated future net servicing income cash flows. We estimate 

future net servicing income cash flows with assumptions that
 market particip
ants would use to estimate fair value, including 

estimates of
 prepayment speeds (including housing price 
volatility), discount rate, default rates, cost to service (including 

delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, 

contractual servicin
g fee income, ancillary income and 
late
 fees. 
Our valuation approach is independently validated by our 

internal valuation model validation group. 
  Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to the 
collection/realization of expected cash flows, 
as well as changes 

in valuation inputs and assumptions. 
For MSRs carried at fair 

value, changes in fair value are reported in noninterest income in 

the period in which the change occurs.
 MSRs subsequently 
measured at 
LOCOM
 are amortized in proportion to, a
nd over 
the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization 

of MSRs is reported in noninterest income analyzed monthly 

and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as 

other factors.
  MSRs accounted for at 
LOCOM
 are periodically
 evaluated for 
impairment based on the fair value of those assets. For purposes 

of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify 
MSRs
 based on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying 

loans, including investor and product type.
 If, by in
dividual 
stratum, the carrying amount of these MSRs exceeds fair value, a 

valuation reserve is established. The valuation reserve is 

adjusted as the fair value changes.
  Premises and Equipment
 Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated 

dep
reciation and amortization. Capital leases, where we are the 
117 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued)
    lessee, are included in premises and equipment at the capitalized 
amount less accumulated amortization.
  We primarily use the straight
-line method of depreciation 
and amortization. Estimated usef
ul lives range up to 40 years for 
buildings, up to 10 years for furniture and equipment, and the 

shorter of the estimated useful life or lease term for leasehold 

improvements. We amortize capitalized leased assets on a 

straight
-line basis over the lives of
 the respective leases.
  Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets
 Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under the 

purchase method of accounting when the purchase price is 

higher than the fair value of net assets, including identifiable 

intangibl
e assets.
  We assess goodwill for impairment annually, and more 
frequently in certain circumstances. We have determined that 

our reporting units are one level below the operating segments. 

We assess goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level and 

app
ly various valuation methodologies as appropriate to 

compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each 

reporting unit. Valuation methodologies include discounted cash 

flow and earnings multiple approaches. If the fair value is less 

than the ca
rrying amount, a second test is required to measure 
the amount of impairment. We recognize impairment losses as a 

charge to noninterest expense (unless related to discontinued 

operations) and an adjustment to the carrying value of the 

goodwill asset. Subse
quent reversals of goodwill impairment are 
prohibited.
  We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship 
intangibles on an accelerated basis over useful lives not 

exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment 

whenever events or chan
ges in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is 

indicated if the sum of undiscounted estimated future net cash 

flows is less than the carrying value of the asset. Impairment is 

permanently recognized by writi
ng down the asset to the extent 
that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. 
  Operating Lease Assets
 Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in 

other income on a straight
-line basis over the lease term. Related 
depreciat
ion expense is recorded on a straight
-line basis over the 
life of the lease, taking into account the estimated residual value 

of the leased asset. On a periodic basis, leased assets are 

reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is recognized if the 

carrying
 amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not 
recoverable. The carrying amount of leased assets is not 

recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows 

expected to result from the lease payments and the estimated 

residual value upo
n the eventual disposition of the equipment. 
  Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses
 We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae (government
-sponsored 
entities (GSEs)), which include the mortgage 
loans in GSE
-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities 

that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions 

that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label 
securitization. In addition, we pool Federal Hous
ing 
Administration (FHA)
-insured and Department of Veterans 
Affairs (VA)
-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities 
guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association 

(GNMA).
  We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, 
indemnify the sec
uritization trust, investor or insurer, or 
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit 

losses incurred on loans (collectively ﬁrepurchaseﬂ) in the event 

of a breach of specified contractual representations or warranties 

that are not 
remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) 

after we receive notice of the breach. Typically, we would only be 

required to repurchase securitized loans if a breach is deemed to 

have material and adverse effect on the value of the mortgage 

loan or to
 the interests of the security holders in the mortgage 

loan.
  We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to 
various representations and warranties that reflect 

management™s estimate of losses for loans for which we could 

have repurchase obligatio
n, whether or not we currently service 
those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors 

incorporate estimated levels of defects based on internal quality 

assurance sampling, default expectations, historical investor 

repurchase demand and appeal
s success rates (where the 
investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or 

acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor™s applicable 

representations and warranties), reimbursement by 

correspondent and other third party originators, and p
rojected 

loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans are sold 

and continually update our liability estimate during their life. 

Although investors may demand repurchase at any time, the 

majority of repurchase demands occur in the first 24 to 3
6 months following origination of the mortgage loan and can vary 

by investor.
  The liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included 
in other liabilities. For additional information on our repurchase 

liability, see Note 9. 
  Pension Accounting
 We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an 
actuarial model as more fully discussed in Note 19.
 In 2008, we 
changed our measurement date for our plan assets and benefit 

obligations from November 30 to December 31, which did not 

change the amount of net periodic benefit expense recognized in 

our income statement.
  Income Taxes
 We file consolidated and separate company federal income tax 

returns, foreign tax returns and various combined and separate 

company state tax returns.
  We evaluate two compon
ents of income tax expense: current 
and deferred. Current income tax expense approximates taxes to 

be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income 

tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine 

deferred income taxes using t
he balance sheet method. Under 
this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the 

tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of 

assets and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in tax rates 
118    and laws in the period 
in which they occur. Deferred income tax 
expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and 

liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized 

subject to management's judgment that realization is more likely 

than not. A tax position that 
meets the ﬁmore likely than notﬂ 

recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of 

benefit to recognize. The tax position is measured at the largest 

amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being 

realized upon settlement. Foreign tax
es paid are generally 
applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. 

Interest and penalties are recognized as a component of income 

tax expense.
  Stock
-Based Compensation
 We have stock
-based employee compensation plans as more 
fully discussed i
n Note 18. Our compensation expense includes 
the associated costs for all share
-based awards. 
  Earnings Per Common Share
 We compute earnings per common share by dividing net income 

(after deducting dividends and related accretion on preferred 

stock) by th
e average number of common shares outstanding 
during the year. We compute diluted earnings per common 

share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends and 

related accretion on preferred stock) by the average number of 

common shares outstanding durin
g the year, plus the effect of 
common stock equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted 

share rights, convertible debentures and warrants) that are 

dilutive.
  Derivatives and Hedging Activities
 We recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at f
air value. On 
the date we enter into a derivative contract, we designate the 

derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or 

liability, including hedges of foreign currency exposure (ﬁfair 

valueﬂ hedge), (2) a hedge of a forecasted tra
nsaction or of the 
variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a 

recognized asset or liability (ﬁcash flowﬂ hedge), or (3) held for 

trading, customer accommodation or asset/liability risk 

management purposes, including economic hedges not 

qualifying for hedge accounting. For a fair value hedge, we 

record changes in the fair value of the derivative and, to the 

extent that it is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged 

asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk, in current pe
riod 
earnings in the same financial statement category as the hedged 

item. For a cash flow hedge, we record changes in the fair value 

of the derivative to the extent that it is effective in OCI, with any 

ineffectiveness recorded in current period earnings.
 We 
subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income 

in the same period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net 

income in the same financial statement category as the hedged 

item. For free
-standing derivatives, we report changes in the 
fair 
values in current period noninterest income.
  For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying for hedge 
accounting, we formally document at inception the relationship 

between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk 

management objective, strategy
 and our evaluation of 
effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This includes linking all 
derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to 

specific assets and liabilities in the balance sheet or to specific 

forecasted transactions. Periodically
, as required, we also 
formally assess whether the derivative we designated in each 

hedging relationship is expected to be and has been highly 

effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the 

hedged item using the regression analysis met
hod or, in limited 
cases, the dollar offset method.
  We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when (1) a 
derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in 

the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative 

expires or is so
ld, terminated or exercised, (3) a derivative is de
-
designated as a hedge, because it is unlikely that a forecasted 

transaction will occur, or (4) we determine that designation of a 

derivative as a hedge is no longer appropriate.
  When we discontinue hedge
 accounting because a derivative 
no longer qualifies as an effective fair value hedge, we continue 

to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair value with 

changes in fair value included in earnings, and no longer adjust 

the previously hedged as
set or liability for changes in fair value. 
Previous adjustments to the hedged item are accounted for in 

the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of 

the asset or liability.
  When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because 
the hedgi
ng instrument is sold, terminated or no longer 
designated (de
-designated), the amount reported in OCI up to 
the date of sale, termination or de
-designation continues to be 
reported in OCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings.
  When we disconti
nue cash flow hedge accounting because it 
is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, we 

continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair 

value with changes in fair value included in earnings, and 

immediately recognize gains 
and losses that were accumulated in 

OCI in earnings.
  In all other situations in which we discontinue hedge 
accounting, the derivative will be carried at its fair value in the 

balance sheet, with changes in its fair value recognized in current 

period earni
ngs.
  We occasionally purchase or originate financial instruments 
that contain an embedded derivative. At inception of the 

financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic 

characteristics of the embedded derivative are not clearly and 

closely related to
 the economic characteristics of the financial 

instrument (host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that 

embodies both the embedded derivative and the host contract is 

not measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in 

earnings, and (
3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as 

the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a 

derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these 

conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording 

the bifurcated derivative at fair value and the remaining host 

contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid 

instrument and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The 

bifurcated derivative is carried as a free
-standing derivative at 
fair value with changes recorded 
in current period earnings.
 119 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued)
    SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FL
OW INFORMATION
 Noncash activities are presented below, including information on transfers affecting 
MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs.
                     Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
   2010
    2009    2008  Transfers from trading assets to securities available for sale
 $  -     854     -  Transfers from (to) loans to (from) securities available for sale 
    3,476
     (258)
    (283)
 Transfers from MHFS to trading assets
    19,815
     2,993
     -  Transfers 
from MHFS to securities available for sale
    -     -     544  Transfers from MHFS to MSRs
    4,570
     6,287
     3,498
  Transfers from MHFS to foreclosed assets
    262     162     136  Transfers from (to) loans to (from) MHFS
    230     144     (1,195)
 Transfers from (to) loans to (from) LHFS
    1,313
     (111)
    1,640
  Transfers from loans to foreclosed assets
    8,699
     7,604
     3,031
  Changes in consolidations of variable interest entities:
                
Trading assets
    155     -     -     
Securities available for sale
    (7,590)
    -     -     
Loans
    26,117
     -     -     
Other assets
    212     -     -     
Short
-term borrowings
    5,127
     -     -     
Long
-term debt
    13,613
     -     -     
Accrued expenses and other liabilitie
s    (32)
    -     -  Net transfer from additional paid
-in capital to noncontrolling interests
    -     2,299
     -  Issuance of common and preferred stock for purchase accounting
    -     -     22,672
  Decrease in noncontrolling interests due to decons
olidation of subsidiaries
    440     -     -  Transfer from noncontrolling interests to long
-term debt
    345     -     -                              SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
  We have evaluated the effects of 
subsequent events that have occurred subsequent 
to period end 
December 31, 2010, and there have been no material events that 

would require recognition in our 2010 consolidated financial 

statements or disclosure in the Notes to the financial statements.
 120     We regularly expl
ore opportunities to acquire financial services 
companies and businesses. Generally, we do not make a public 
announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a 

definitive agreement has been signed. For information on 

additional consideration related to 
acquisitions, which is 

considere
d to be a guarantee, see Note 14
. Note 2:  Business Combinations
   In addition to the 2008 Wachovia acquisition, business 
combinations completed in 2010, 2009 and 2008 are presented 

below. At December 31, 2010, we had no pending business 

combinations.
                        (in millions)
   Date
     Assets
 2010
            Certain assets of GMAC Commercial Finance, LLC, New York, New York
 April 30
   $  430  Other (1)
 Various
      40                    $  470  2009
            Capital TempFunds, Fort La
uderdale, Florida
 March 2
   $  74  Other (2)
 Various
      39                    $  113  2008
            Flatiron Credit Company, Inc., Denver, Colorado
 April 30
   $  332  Transcap Associates, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
 June 27
      22  United Bancorpora
tion of Wyoming, Inc., Jackson, Wyoming (3)
 July 1
      2,110
  Farmers State Bank of Fort Morgan Colorado, Fort Morgan, Colorado
 December 6
      186  Century Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, Texas
 December 31
      1,604
  Wells Fargo Merchant Services, LLC (4)
 December 31
      1,251
  Other (5)
 Various
      52                    $  5,557
                        (1)
 Consists of five acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses.
 (2)
 Consists of eight acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses.
 (3)
 Consists of five aff
iliated banks of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc., located in Wyoming and Idaho, and certain assets and liabilities of 
United Bancorporation of 
Wyoming, Inc.
 (4)
 Represents a step acquisition resulting from the increase in Wells Fargo's ownership from a 
47.5% interest to a 60% interest in the Wells Fargo Merchant Services, LLC joint 
venture.
 (5)
 Consists of 12 acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses.
    On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired
 Wachovia
. The 
purchase accounting for the Wachovia acqui
sition was finalized 
as of December 31, 
2009, which included c
osts associated with 
involuntary employee termination, contract terminations and 

closing duplicate facilities
. These exit costs 
were estimates and 
subject to changes as the exit plans were execu
ted. 
The final exit 
costs as of December 31, 2010, were less 
than originally 

estimated, resulting in the 
reversal of exit cost 
accrual
s, 
with the 
offset reducing the amount of goodwill recorded with 
the 

Wachovia acquisition by $123
 million
.  The fol
lowing 
table summarizes the
 usage of the exit 
cost 
accruals and changes in estimates.
                                                  Employee
   Contract
   Facilities
     (in millions)
     termination
 termination
   related
   Total
 Balance, December 31, 2008
 $  57     13     129     199    Purchase accounting adjustments (1)
    596     61     354     1,011
    Cash payments/utilization
    (298)
    (16)
    (139)
    (453)
 Balance, December 31, 2009
 $  355     58     344     757    Cash payments/utilization
    (300)
    (56)
    (278)
    (634)
   Change in estimates
    (55)
    (2)
    (66)
    (123)
 Balance, December 31, 2010
 $  -     -     -     -                                (1)
 Certain purchase accounting adjustments have been refined during 2009 as additional 
information became available.
 121    Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of 
our subsidiary banks maintain reserve balances on deposit with 

the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reser
ve balance 
was $6.0
 billion in 2010 and $2.4
 billion in 2009.
 Note 3:  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions
   Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit 
and non
-credit transactions between a bank and its nonbank 
affiliates. These transaction amounts may not exceed 10% of the 

bank's c
apital and surplus, which for this purpose represents 
total capital, as calculated under the risk
-based capital (RBC) 
guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses in 

excess of the amount included in total capital with any single 

nonbank 
affiliate and 20% of the bank's capital and surplus with 
all its nonbank affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of 

credit may require collateral to be held to provide added security 

to the bank. For further discussion of RBC, see Note 25.
  Dividends 
paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various 
federal and state regulatory limitations. Dividends that may be 

paid by a national bank without the express approval of the 

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to 

that bank's retai
ned net profits for the preceding two calendar 
years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend 

declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as 

defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends 

declared during the pe
riod.
   We also have state
-chartered subsidiary banks that are 
subject to state regulations that limit dividends. Under those 

provisions, our national and state
-chartered subsidiary banks 
could have declared additional dividends of $1.6
 billion at 
Decembe
r 31, 2010, without obtaining prior regulatory approval. 

Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and 

state statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount 

of dividends that may be paid in any given year. Based on 

retained earn
ings at December 31, 2010, our nonbank 
subsidiaries could have declared additional dividends of 

$4.7
 billion at December 31, 2010, without obtaining prior 
approval.
  The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in 2009, 
SR 09
-4 Applying Supervisory Gu
idance and Regulations on 
the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock 

Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,
 pertaining to FRB's 
criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in 

capital including the redemption of Troubled Asset Relie
f Program (TARP) and the payment of dividends. The effect of this 

guidance is to require the approval of the FRB for the Company 

to repurchase or redeem common or perpetual preferred stock 

as well as to increase the per share dividend from its current 

leve
l of $0.05 per share. In November 2010, the FRB updated 
the SR 09
-4 guidance to require the original 19 
Supervisory 
Capital Assessment Program (
SCAP
) banks to submit a Capital 
Plan 
Review 
to the FRB no later than January 7, 2011.
 The 
Capital Plan
 Review 
outlines proposed capital actions by the 
Company including per share dividend increases and share 

repurchases from the Company™s benefit plans and the market.
 The Company has submitted a Capital Plan 
Review 
to the FRB
.  Note 4:  Federal Funds Sold, Securiti
es Purchased under Resale Agreements 
 The following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, 

securities purchased under resale agreements, other short
-term 
investments and 
collateral we have received from other en
tities 
under resale agreements and securities borrowing arrangements
. and Other Short
-Term Investments
                     December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
     2009  Federal funds sold and securities
           purchased under resale agreements
 $  24,880
     8,042
  Interest
-earning d
eposits
    53,433
     31,668
  Other short
-term investments
    2,324
     1,175
    Total
 $  80,637
     40,885
  Collateral received with the right
           to sell or repledge (1)
 $  22,495
     9,663
  Collateral sold or repledged (1)
    14,624
     7,952
                          (1)
 Prior period has been revised to correct previously reported amounts.
 122     The following table provides the cost and fair value for the major 
categories of securities available for sale carr
ied at fair value. The 
net unrealized gains (losses) are reported on an
 after
-tax basis as 
a component of cumulative OCI. There were no securities 

classified as held to maturity as of the periods presented.
 Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale
                                             Gros
s Gross
                     unrealized
 unrealized
 Fair
 (in millions)
   Cost
 gains
 losses
 value
                         December 31, 2010
                                   Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 $  1,570
   49   (15)
  1,604
  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    18,923
   568   (837)
  18,654
  Mortgage
-backed securities:
             Federal agencies
    78,578
   3,555
   (96)
  82,037
    Residential
    18,294
   2,398
   (489)
  20,203
    Commercial
    12,990
   1,199
   (635)
  13,554
      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    109,862
   7,152
   (1,220)
  115,794
  Corporate debt securities
    9,015
   1,301
   (37)
  10,279
  Collateralized debt obligations
    4,638
   369   (229)
  4,778
  Other 
(1)
     16,063
   576   (283)
  16,356
        Total debt securities
    160,071
   10,015
   (2,621)
  167,465
  Marketable equity securities:
             Perpetual preferred securities
    3,671
   250   (89)
  3,832
    Other marketable equity securities
    587   771   (1)
  1,357
        Total marketable equity securities
    4,258
   1,021
   (90)
  5,189
          Total 
(2)
 $  164,329
   11,036
   (2,711)
  172,654
                          December 31, 2009
                                   Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 $  2,256
   38   (14)
  2,280
  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    13,212
   683   (365)
  13,530
  Mortgage
-backed securities:
             Federal agencies
    79,542
   3,285
   (9)
  82,818
    Residential 
    28,153
   2,480
   (2,043)
  28,590
    Commercial
    12,221
   602   (1,862)
  10,961
      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    119,916
   6,367
   (3,914)
  122,369
  Corporate debt securities
    8,245
   1,167
   (77)
  9,335
  Collateralized debt obligations
    3,660
   432   (367)
  3,725
  Other (1)
    15,025
   1,099
   (245)
  15,879
        Total debt securities
    162,314
   9,786
   (4,982)
  167,118
  Marketable equity securities:
             Perpetual preferred securities
    3,677
   263   (65)
  3,875
    Other marketable equity securities
    1,072
   654   (9)
  1,717
        Total marketable equity securities
    4,749
   917   (74)
  5,592
          Total (2)
 $  167,063
   10,703
   (5,056)
  172,710
                          (1)
 Included in the ﬁOtherﬂ category are asset
-backed securities collatera
lized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves with a cost basis and fair value of $
6.2
 billion and 
$6.4
 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010, and $8.2 billion and $8.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Also incl
uded in the "Other" categ
ory are asset
-backed securities collateralized by home equity loans with a cost basis and fair value of $
927 million and $1.1
 billion, respectively
, at December 31, 2010, and $2.3 billion 
and $2.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The remaining 
balances primarily include asset
-backed securities collateralized by credit cards and student loans.
 (2)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we held no securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury and federal agencies) with a book value that exceede
d 10% of 
stockholders™ equity.
 123 Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued)
     As part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge 
securities to secure borrowings from the FHLB and the Federal 
Reserve Bank. We also pledge securities to secure trust and 

public deposits and for other purposes as req
uired or
 permitted 
by law. 
Securities pledged where the secured party does not have 

the right t
o sell or repledge totaled $94.2
 billi
on and 
$98
.9 billion at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively
. We did not pledge any securities where the secured party 
has the 

right to sell or repledge the collateral as of the same periods, 

respectively.
  Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value
 The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair 

value of securities in the securities available
-for
-sale portfolio
 by 
length of time that individual securities in each category had 

been in a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we 

have taken only credit
-related OTTI write
-downs are categorized 
as being ﬁless than 12 monthsﬂ or ﬁ12 months or moreﬂ in a 

continuous loss position based on the point in time that the fair 
value declined to below the cost basis and not the period of time 

since the credit
-related OTTI write
-down.
                                             Less than 12 months
   12 months or mor
e   Total
               Gross
     Gross
     Gross
               unrealized
 Fair
 unrealized
 Fair
 unrealized
 Fair
 (in millions)
   losses
 value
   losses
 value
   losses
 value
                               December 31, 2010
                                                 Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 $  (15)
  544     -   -     (15)
  544  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    (322)
  6,242
     (515)
  2,720
     (837)
  8,962
  Mortgage
-backed securities:
                     Federal agencies
    (95)
  8,103
     (1)
  60     (96)
  8,163
    Residential
    (35)
  1,023
     (454)
  4,440
     (489)
  5,463
    Commercial
    (9)
  441     (626)
  5,141
     (635)
  5,582
      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    (139)
  9,567
     (1,081)
  9,641
     (1,220)
  19,208
  Corporate debt securities
    (10)
  477     (27)
  157     (37)
  634  Collateralized debt obligations
    (13)
  679     (216)
  456     (229)
  1,135
  Other 
    (13)
  1,985
     (270)
  757     (283)
  2,742
        Total debt secur
ities
    (512)
  19,494
     (2,109)
  13,731
     (2,621)
  33,225
  Marketable equity securities:
                     Perpetual preferred securities
    (41)
  962     (48)
  467     (89)
  1,429
    Other marketable equity securities
    -   -     (1)
  7     (1)
  7        Total marketable equity securities
    (41)
  962     (49)
  474     (90)
  1,436
          Total
 $  (553)
  20,456
     (2,158)
  14,205
     (2,711)
  34,661
                                December 31, 2009
                                                 Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 $  (14)
  530     -   -     (14)
  530  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    (55)
  1,120
     (310)
  2,826
     (365)
  3,946
  Mortgage
-backed securities:
                     Federal
 agencies
    (9)
  767     -   -     (9)
  767    Residential 
    (243)
  2,991
     (1,800)
  9,697
     (2,043)
  12,688
    Commercial
    (37)
  816     (1,825)
  6,370
     (1,862)
  7,186
      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    (289)
  4,574
     (3,625)
  16,06
7     (3,914)
  20,641
  Corporate debt securities
    (7)
  281     (70)
  442     (77)
  723  Collateralized debt obligations
    (55)
  398     (312)
  512     (367)
  910  Other
    (73)
  746     (172)
  286     (245)
  1,032
        Total debt securities
    (49
3)  7,649
     (4,489)
  20,133
     (4,982)
  27,782
  Marketable equity securities:
                     Perpetual preferred securities
    (1)
  93     (64)
  527     (65)
  620    Other marketable equity securities
    (9)
  175     -   -     (9)
  175        Total marketable equity securities
    (10)
  268     (64)
  527     (74)
  795          Total
 $  (503)
  7,917
     (4,553)
  20,660
     (5,056)
  28,577
  124     We recognized $252 million of 
OTTI
 in 2010 on $14.5 billion 
of agency mortgage
-backed securities we inten
ded to sell as of 
December 31, 2010. These securities have been disposed of in 
first quarter 2011 and are not included in the preceding table
, as 
any related unrealized losses were reco
gnized in earnings. We do 
not 
intend to sell any other securities in an
 unrealized loss 
position
. For debt securi
ties included in the table, we have 
concluded it is more likely than not that we will not be required 

to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. We have 

assessed each security for credit impairment. For
 debt securities, 
we evaluate, where necessary, whether credit impairment exists 

by comparing the present value of the expected cash flows to the 

securities amortized cost basis. For equity securities, we consider 

numerous factors in determining whether im
pairment exists, 
including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period 

of time sufficient to recover the cost basis of the securities. 
  See Note
 1 Œ ﬁSecuritiesﬂ
 for the factors that we consider in 
our analysis of OTTI for debt and equity s
ecurities available for 

sale.
  SECURITIES OF U.S. T
REASURY AND FEDERAL 
AGENCIE
S AND 
FEDERAL AGENCY MORTG
AGE
-BACKED SECURITIES (M
BS)
  The unrealized losses associated with U.S. Treasury and federal 

agency securities 
and federal agency MBS are primarily driv
en 
by changes in interest rates and not due to 
credit losses 
given
 the
 explicit or implicit
 guarantees provided by the U
.S. government.
  SECURITIES OF U.S. S
TATES AND POLITICAL 
SUBDIVISIONS
  The unrealized losses associated with securities of U.S. states 

and political subdivisions are primarily driven by changes in 
interest rates and not due to the credit quality of the securities. 

Substantially all of 
these investments 
are investment grade. The 
securities were generally underwritten in accordance with our 

own investment standards prior to the decision to purchase, 

without relying on a bond insurer™s guarantee in making the 

investment decision. These investments will continue to be 

monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis, but are 

expected to per
form, even if the rating agencies reduce the credit 
rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities.
  RESIDENTIAL 
AND COMMERCIAL MORTG
AGE
-BACKED 
SECURITIES (MBS)
  The unrealized losses asso
ciated with 
private residential MBS 
and commercial MBS 
are primarily 

driven 
by changes in 
projected collateral losses, credit spreads 

and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment using a cash 

flow model. The key assumptions include default rates, se
verities 

and prepayment rates. We estimate losses to a security by 

forecasting the underlying mortgage loans in each transaction. 

We use 
forecasted loan performance to project cash flows to the 
various tranches in the structure. 
We also consider c
ash flow 
forecasts 
and, 
as applicable, independent industry analyst 
reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other 

independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the 

expected credit losses of the security given the performance of 

the underlying coll
ateral compared with our credit 
enhancement, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost 

basis of these securities.
 CORPORATE DEBT SECUR
ITIES
  The unrealized losses 
associated with corporate debt securities are primarily related to 

securities backed by 
commercial loans and individual issuer 

companies. For securities with commercial loans as the 

underlying collateral, we have evaluated the expected credit 

losses in the security and concluded that we have sufficient 

credit enhancement when compared with ou
r estimate of credit 
losses for the individual security. For individual issuers, we 

evaluate the financial performance of the issuer on a quarterly 

basis to determine that the issuer can make all contractual 

principal and interest payments. Based upon this
 assessment, we 
expect to recover the entire cost basis of these securities.
  COLLATERALIZED DEBT 
OBLIGATIONS (CDOS
)  The unrealized 
losses associated with CDOs relate to securities primarily backed 

by commercial, residential or other consumer collateral. 
The 
losses are primarily driven by 
changes in projected collateral 
losses, 
credit spreads
 and interest rates
. We assess for credit 
impairment using a cash flow model. The key assumptions 

include default rates, severities and prepayment rates. 
We also 

consi
der cash flow forecasts and, as applicable, independent 
industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and 

other independent market data. 
Based upon our assessment of 

the expected credit losses of the security given the performance 

of the u
nderlying collateral compared with our credit 
enhancement, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost 

basis of these securities.
  OTHER DEBT SECURITIE
S  The unrealized losses associated with 
other debt securities primarily relate to other asset
-backed 
securities, which are primarily backed by auto, home equity and 

student loans. The losses are primarily driven by 
changes in 

projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We 

assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model. The key 

assumptions include default rates, severities and prepayment 
rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses of 

the security given the performance of the underlying collateral 

compared with our credit enhancement, we expect to recover the 

enti
re amortized cost basis of these securities.
  MARKETABLE EQUITY SE
CURITIES
  Our marketable equity 
securities include investments in perpetual preferred securities, 

which provide very attractive tax
-equivalent yields. We evaluated 
these hybrid financial ins
truments with investment
-grade 
ratings for impairment using an evaluation methodology similar 

to that used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities 
are 
not considered to be
 oth
er-than
-temporarily impaired
 if there 
is no evidence of credit deteri
oration or investment rating 
downgrades of any issuers to below i
nvestment grade, and we 
expect
 to continue to receive full contractual payments. We will 
continue to evaluate the prospects for these securities for 

recovery in their market value in accordan
ce with our policy for 
estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write
-downs on 

perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of credit 

deterioration.
 125 Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued)
     The fair values of our investment securities could decline in 
the future if the underlying 
performance of the collateral for the 
residential and commercial MBS or other securities deteriorate 

and our credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient 

protection to our contractual principal and interest. As a result, 

there is a risk that signifi
cant OTTI may occur in the future.
  The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair 
value of debt and perpetual preferred securities available for sale 

by those rated investment grade and those rated less than 

investment grade, according to 
their lowest credit rating by 

Standard & Poor™s Rating Services (S&P) or Moody™s Investors 

Service (Moody™s). Credit ratings express opinions about the 

credit quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, 

that is those rated BBB
- or higher by S
&P or Baa3 or higher by 
Moody™s, are generally considered by the rating agencies and 
market participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities 

rated below investment grade, labeled as ﬁspeculative gradeﬂ by 

the rating agencies, are considered to be
 distinctively higher 
credit risk than investment grade securities. We have also 

included securities not rated by S&P or Moody™s in the table 

below based on the internal credit grade of the securities (used 

for credit risk management purposes) equivalent t
o the credit 
rating assigned by major credit agencies. The unrealized losses 

and fair value of unrated securities categorized as investment 

grade based on internal credit grades were $83 million and 

$1.3
 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. 
There w
ere no 
unrated securities included in investment grade in a loss position 

categorized as investment grade based on internal credit grades 

as of
 December 31, 2009
. If an internal credit grade was not 
assigned, we categorized the security as non
-investment g
rade.
                                            Investment grade
   Non
-investment grade
                 Gross
     Gross
                   unrealized
 Fair
   unrealized
 Fair
 (in millions)
   losses
 value
   losses
 value
                           Decemb
er 31, 2010
                                       Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 $  (15)
  544     -   -  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    (722)
  8,423
     (115)
  539  Mortgage
-backed securities:
               Federal agencies
    (96)
  8,163
     -   -    Residential
    (23)
  888     (466)
  4,575
    Commercial
    (299)
  4,679
     (336)
  903      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    (418)
  13,730
     (802)
  5,478
  Corporate debt securities
    (22)
  330     (15)
  304  Collateralized debt obligations
    (42)
  613     (187)
  522  Other
    (180)
  2,510
     (103)
  232        Total debt securities
    (1,399)
  26,150
     (1,222)
  7,075
  Perpetual preferred securities
    (81)
  1,327
     (8)
  102          Total
 $  (1
,480)
  27,477
     (1,230)
  7,177
                            December 31, 2009
                                       Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 $  (14)
  530     -   -  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    (275)
  3,621
     (90)
  325  Mortgage
-backed securities:
               Federal agencies
    (9)
  767     -   -    Residential
    (480)
  5,661
     (1,563)
  7,027
    Commercial
    (1,247)
  6,543
     (615)
  643      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    (1,736)
  12,971
     (2,178)
  7,670
  Corporate debt securities
    (31)
  260     (46)
  463  Collateralized debt obligations
    (104)
  471     (263)
  439  Other
    (85)
  644     (160)
  388        Total debt securities
    (2,245)
  18,497
     (2,737)
  9,285
  Perpetu
al preferred securities
    (65)
  620     -   -          Total
 $  (2,310)
  19,117
     (2,737)
  9,285
  126    Contractual Maturities
 The following table shows the remaining contractual principal 
maturities and contractual yields of debt securities available for 

sale.
 The remaining contractual principal maturities for MBS 
do 
not consider
 prepayments.
 Remaining expected maturities will 
differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have 

the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages 

matur
e.                                                                            Remaining contractual principal maturity
                   Weighted
-             After one year
     After five years
                         Total 
   average
     Within one y
ear
   through five years
   through ten years
     After ten years
   (in millions)
   amount 
   yield
     Amount
 Yield
     Amount
 Yield
     Amount
 Yield
     Amount
 Yield
                                                         December 31, 2010
                                                                                                 Securities of U.S. Treasury
                                             and federal agencies
 $  1,604
     2.54
  % $  9   5.07
  % $  641   1.72
  % $  852   2.94
  % $  102   4.15
  % Securities of U.S. states and 
                                             political subdivisions
    18,654
     5.99
       322   3.83
       3,210
   3.57
       1,884
   6.13
       13,238
   6.60
    Mortgage
-backed securities:
                                             Federal agencies
    82,037
     5.01
       5   6.63
       28   6.58
       420   5.23
       81,584
   5.00
      Residential
    20,203
     4.98
       -   -       -   -       341   3.20
       19,862
   5.01
      Commercial
    13,554
     5.39
       -   -       1   1.38
       215   5.28
       13,338
   5.39
        Total mortgage
-backed 
                                                 securities
    115,794
     5.05
       5   6.63
       29   6.38
       976   4.53
       114,784
   5.05
    Corporate debt securities
    10,279
     5.94
       545   7.82
       3,853
   6.01
       4,817
   5.62
       1,064
   6.21
    Collateralized debt
                                             obligations
    4,778
     0.80
       -   -       545   0.88
       2,5
81   0.72
       1,652
   0.90
    Other 
    16,356
     2.53
       1,588
   2.89
       7,887
   3.00
       4,367
   2.01
       2,514
   1.72
          Total debt securities
                                                   at fair value
 $  167,465
     4.81
  % $  2,469
   4.12
  % $  16,165
   3.72
  % $  15,477
   3.63
  % $  133,354
   5.10
  %                                                       December 31, 2009
                                                                                                 Secur
ities of U.S. Treasury
                                             and federal agencies
 $  2,280
     2.80
  % $  413   0.79
  % $  669   2.14
  % $  1,192
   3.87
  % $  6   4.03
  % Securities of U.S. states and 
                                             political subdivisions
    13,530
     6.75
       77   7.48
       703   6.88
       1,055
   6.56
       11,695
   6.76
    Mortgage
-backed securities:
                                             Federal agencies
    82,818
     5.50
       12   4.68
       50   5.9
1       271   5.56
       82,485
   5.50
      Residential 
    28,590
     5.40
       51   4.80
       115   0.45
       283   5.69
       28,141
   5.41
      Commercial
    10,961
     5.29
       85   0.68
       71   5.55
       169   5.66
       10,636
   5.32
        Total mortgage
-backed 
                                                 securities
    122,369
     5.46
       148   2.44
       236   3.14
       723   5.63
       121,262
   5.46
    Corporate debt securities
    9,335
     5.53
       684   4.00
       3,937
   5.68
       3,959
   5.68
       755   5.32
    Collateralized debt obligations
    3,725
     1.70
       2   5.53
       492   4.48
       1,837
   1.56
       1,394
   0.90
    Other
    15,879
     4.22
       2,128
   5.62
       7,762
   5.96
       697   2.46
       5,292
   1.33
          Total debt securities
                                                   at fair value
 $  167,118
     5.33
  % $  3,452
   4.63
  % $  13,799
   5.64
  % $  9,463
   4.51
  % $  140,404
   5.37
  %                                                       127 Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued)
    Realized Gains and Losses
 The following table shows the gross re
alized gains 
and losses on 
sales and
 OTTI
 write
-downs related to the securities available
-for
-sale portfolio, which includes
 marketable equity securities, as 
well as net realized
 gains and losses on nonmarketable equity 
securities (see Note 7 
Œ Other Assets).
         Other
-Than
-Temporary Impairment
 The following table shows the detail of total OTTI write
-downs 
included in earnings for debt securities and marketable and 
nonmarketab
le equity securities.
                          Year ended
             December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Gross realized gains
 $  645   1,601
   1,920
  Gross realized losses
    (32)
  (160)
  (101)
 OTTI write
-downs
    (692)
  (1,094)
  (1,79
0)   Net realized gains (losses) 
from
             securities available for sale
    (79)
  347   29  Net realized gains (losses) 
from principal
           and private
 equity investments
    534   (289)
  251      Net realized gains 
from
               debt
 and equity securities
 $  455   58   280                                                              Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
      2010
   2009   2008  OTTI write
-downs included in earnings
           Debt securities:
             U.S. s
tates and political subdivisions
 $  16   7   14      Mortgage
-backed securities:
               Federal agencies (1)
    267   -   -        Residential 
    175   595   183        Commercial
    120   137   23      Corporate debt securities
    10   69   176      Collateralized debt obligations
    15   125   147      Other debt securities
    69   79   3          Total debt securities
    672   1,012
   546    Equity securities:
             Marketable equity securities:
               Perpetual preferred 
securities
    15   50   1,057
        Other marketable equity securities
    5   32   187          Total marketable equity securities
    20   82   1,244
            Total securities available for sale
    692   1,094
   1,790
      Nonmarketable equity secur
ities
    248   573   220              Total OTTI write
-downs included in earnings
 $  940   1,667
   2,010
                        (1)
 Represents OTTI recognized on federal agency MBS because we had the intent to sell, of which $252 million relates to securiti
es with a fair value of $14.5 billion that were 
sold subsequent to December 31, 2010. 
 128    Other
-Than
-Temporarily Impaired Debt Securities
 The following table shows the detail of OTTI write
-downs on 
debt securities available for sale included in earnings and 
the 
related changes in OCI for the same securities.
                                  Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
     2010
 2009 OTTI on debt securities
         Recorded as part of gross realized losses:
           Credit
-related OTTI
 $  400   982      Intent
-to
-sell OTTI (1)
    272   30        Total recorded as part of gross realized losses
    672   1,012
    Recorded directly to OCI for non
-credit
-related impairment:
           U.S. states and political subdivisions
    (4)
  3      Resident
ial mortgage
-backed securities
    (326)
  1,124
      Commercial mortgage
-backed securities
    138   179      Corporate debt securities
    (1)
  (2)
     Collateralized debt obligations
    54   20      Other debt securities
    (33)
  16        Total record
ed directly to OCI for non
-credit
-related impairment (2)
    (172)
  1,340
          Total OTTI on debt securities
 $  500   2,352
                    (1)
 Amount includes $252 million related to securities with a fair value of $14.5 billion that were sold subseq
uent to December 31, 2010.
 (2)
 Represents amounts recorded to OCI on debt securities in periods OTTI write
-downs have occurred. Changes in fair value in subsequent periods on such securities, to the 
extent additional credit
-related OTTI did not occur, are not 
reflected in this total. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the non
-credit
-related impairment recorded to OCI 
was a $172 million reduction in total OTTI because the fair value of the security increased due to factors other than credit.
   The following
 table presents a rollforward of the credit loss 
component recognized in earnings for debt securities we still 

own (referred to as ﬁcredit
-impairedﬂ debt securities). The 
credit loss component of the amortized cost represents the 

difference between the present value of expected future cash 

flows and the amortized cost basis of the security prior to 

considering credit losses. OTTI recognized in earnings for 

credit
-impaired debt securities is presented as additions in two 
components based upon whether the cur
rent period is the first 
time the debt security was credit
-impaired (initial credit 
impairment) or is not the first time the debt security was credit 
impaired (subsequent credit impairments). The credit loss 

component is reduced if we sell, intend to sell 
or believe we will 

be required to sell previously credit
-impaired debt securities. 
Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive 

or expect to receive cash flows in excess of what we previously 

expected to receive over the remaining life of the credit
-impaired debt security, the security matures or is fully written 

down. 
  Changes in the credit loss component of credit
-impaired 
debt securities that we do not intend to sell were:
                                Year ended December 31,
 (in
 millions)
   2010
   2009  Credit loss component, beginning of year
 $  1,187
   471  Additions:
         Initial credit impairments
    122   625    Subsequent credit impairments
    278   357      Total additions
    400   982  Reductions:
         For se
curities sold
    (263)
  (255)
   For securities derecognized resulting from adoption of consolidation accounting guidance
    (242)
  -    Due to change in intent to sell or requirement to sell
    (2)
  (1)
   For recoveries of previous credit impairments (1
)    (37)
  (10)
     Total reductions
    (544)
  (266)
 Credit loss component, end of year
 $  1,043
   1,187
                    (1)
 Recoveries of previous credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows subsequent to credit loss recognition.
 Such recoveries are reflected prospectively as 
interest yield adjustments using the effective interest method. 
 129 Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued)
     For asset
-backed securities (e.g., residential MBS), we 
estimated expected future cash flows of the security by 
estimating the expected future c
ash flows of the underlying 
collateral and applying those collateral cash flows, together with 

any credit enhancements such as subordinated interests owned 

by third parties, to the security. The expected future cash flows 

of the underlying collateral are d
etermined using the remaining 
contractual cash flows adjusted for future expected credit losses 

(which consider current delinquencies and nonperforming assets
 (NPAs)
, future expected default rates and collateral value by 
vintage and geographic region) and prepayments. The expected 

cash flows of the security are then discounted at the interest rate 

used to recognize interest income on the security to arrive at a 

present value amount. Total credit impairment losses on 

residential MBS that we do not intend to 
sell are shown in the 
table below. The table also presents a summary of the significant 

inputs considered in determining the measurement of the credit 

loss component recognized in earnings for residential MBS.
                      
             Year ended
 December 31, 
 ($ in millions)
    2010
     2009   Credit impairment losses on residential MBS
            Investment grade
 $  5     24     Non
-investment grade
    170     567             Total credit impairment losses on residential MBS
 $  175     591                        Significant inputs (non
-agency 
Œ non
-investment grade MBS)
          Expected remaining life of loan losses (1):
            Range (2)
   1-43 % 0-58    Credit impairment distribution (3):
              0 - 10% range
    52     56       10 - 20% range
    29     27       20 - 30% range
    17     12       Greater than 30%
    2     5     Weighted average (4)
    9     11   Current subordination levels (5):
            Range (2)
   0-25   0-44    Weighted average (4)
    7     8   Prepayment speed (annual CPR (6)):
            Range (2)
   2-27   5-25    Weighted average (4)
    14     11                       
                     
 (1)
 Represents future expected credit losses on underlying pool of loans expressed as a percentage of tota
l current outstanding loan balance.
 (2)
 Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual securities within each category.
 (3)
 Represents distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings categorized based on range of expected rema
ining life of loan losses. For example 52% of credit 
impairment losses recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2010, had expected remaining life of loan loss assum
ptions of 0 to 10%.
 (4)
 Calculated by weighting the relevant input/assumption for 
each individual security by current outstanding amortized cost basis of the security.
 (5)
 Represents current level of credit protection (subordination) for the securities, expressed as a percentage of total current 
underlying loan balance.
 (6)
 Constant prepayment 
rate.
 130     The following table presents total loans outstanding by portfolio 
segment and class of financing receivable. Outstanding balances 

are presented net of unearned income, net deferred loan fees, 

and unam
ortized discounts and premiums totaling a net 
reduction of 
$11.3
 billion and $14.6
 billion at December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively
. Outstanding balances also include PCI 
loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. 
Information about PCI 
loans is presented separately in the 
ﬁPurchased Credit
-Impaired Loansﬂ section of this Note. 
Effective June 30, 2010, real estate construction outstanding 

balances and all other related data include certain commercial 

real estate secured loans acquired fro
m Wachovia previously 
classified as real estate mortgage. Balances for 2009 and 2008 

have been revised to conform with the current presentation.
 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses
               
                            December 31,
 (in millions) 
    2010
   2009  2008  2007  2006  Comm
ercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
 $  151,284
   158,352
   202,469
   90,468
   70,404
    Real estate mortgage 
    99,435
   97,527
   94,923
   36,747
   30,112
    Real estate construction 
    25,333
   36,978
   42,861
   18,854
   15,935
    Leas
e financing 
    13,094
   14,210
   15,829
   6,772
   5,614
    Foreign (1)
    32,912
   29,398
   33,882
   7,441
   6,666
      Total commercial 
    322,058
   336,465
   389,964
   160,282
   128,731
  Consumer: 
               Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgag
e 
    230,235
   229,536
   247,894
   71,415
   53,228
    Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage 
    96,149
   103,708
   110,164
   75,565
   68,926
    Credit card 
    22,260
   24,003
   23,555
   18,762
   14,697
    Other revolving credit and installment 
    86,565
   89,058
   93,253
   56,171
   53,534
      Total consumer 
    435,209
   446,305
   474,866
   221,913
   190,385
        Total loans 
 $  757,267
   782,770
   864,830
   382,195
   319,116
              
             (1)
 Substantially all of o
ur foreign loan
 portfolio 
is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign if the borrower™s primary address is outside of the United States.
   We pledge loans to secure borrowings from the FHLB and 
the Federal Reserve Bank as part of our liquidity management 

strate
gy. Loans pledged where the secured party does not have 
the ri
ght to sell or repledge totaled 
$312.6
 billion 
for both
 December 31, 2010 and 2009. We did not have any pledged 
loans where the secured pa
rty has the right to sell or re
pledge for 
the same respective periods.
  Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts 
loaned to borrowers engaged in similar activities or similar types 

of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would 

cause them to be similarly impacted by economic or other 

conditions. At December
 31,
 20
10 and 200
9, we 
did not 
have 
concentrations representing 10% or more of our total loan 

portfolio in 
domestic 
commercial 
and industrial 
loans and lease 
financing by industry or CRE loans (real estate mortgage and 

real estate cons
truction) by state or property type. Our real 
estate 1
-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of 
California represented approximately 
14% of total loans at both 
December
 31,
 2010 and
 200
9. Of this amount, 
3% of total loans 
were PCI loans at December 31, 20
10. These loans are generally 
diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, 

with no single area consisting of more than 
3% of total loans. 
Changes in real estate values and underlying economic or market 

conditions for these area
s are monitored continuously within our 
credit risk management process.
  Some of our real estate 1
-4 family mortgage loans, including 
first mortgage and home equity products, include an interest
-only feature as part of the loan terms.
 At December
 31,
 2010,    these loans were approximately 
25% of total loans, compared 
with 
26% at December
 31,
 200
9. Substantially all 
of these loans 
 are consid
ered to be prime or near prime. 
We do not offer option 
adjustable
-rate mortgage (ARM) products, 
nor do we offer 
varia
ble
-rate mortgage products with fixed
 payment amounts, 
commonly referred to within the financial services industry as 

negative amortizing mortgage loans.
  The following table summarizes the proceeds paid or received 
for purchases and sales of loans, respec
tively. It also includes 
transfers from (to) mortgages/loans held for sale at lower of cost 

or market. The table excludes PCI loans and loans recorded at 

fair value, including loans originated for sale. This activity 

primarily includes purchases or sales o
f commercial loan 
participation interests, whereby we receive or transfer a portion 

of a loan after origination.
                                    December 31, 2010
 (in millions)
 Commercial
 Consumer
 Total
 Purchases
 $  2,135
   162   2,297
  Sales
    (5,
930)
  (553)
  (6,483)
 Transfers from/(to) MHFS/LHFS
    (1,461)
  (82)
  (1,543)
             131 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
     Commitments to Lend
 A commitment to extend credit is a legally binding agreement to 
lend funds to a customer, usually at a stated interest rate and for 

a specifie
d purpose. These commitments have fixed expiration 
dates and generally require a fee. When we make such a 

commitment, we have credit risk. The liquidity requirements or 

credit risk will be lower than the contractual amount of 

commitments to extend credit b
ecause a significant portion of 
these commitments are expected to expire without being used. 

Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements with 

covenants regarding the financial performance of the customer 

or borrowing base formulas that must be met b
efore we are 
required to fund the commitment. Also, in some cases we 

participate a portion of our commitment to others in an 

arrangement that reduces our 
contractual
 commitment amount. 
We use the same credit policies in extending credit for unfunded 

commit
ments and letters of credit that we use in making loans. 
See Note 14 for information on standby letters of credit.
  In addition, we manage the potential risk in credit 
commitments by limiting the total amount of arrangements, 

both by individual customer an
d in total, by monitoring the size 
and maturity structure of these portfolios and by applying the 

same credit standards for all of our credit activities.
   For certain extensions of credit, we may require collateral, 
based on our assessment of a customer™
s credit risk. We hold 
various types of collateral, including accounts receivable, 

inventory, land, buildings, equipment, autos, financial 

instruments, income
-producing commercial properties and 
residential real estate. Collateral requirements for each cus
tomer 
may vary according to the specific credit underwriting, terms 

and structure of loans funded immediately or under a 

commitment to fund at a later date.
  The contractual amount of our unfunded 
credit 
commitments, net of participations and net of all st
andby and 

commercial letters of credit issued under the terms of these 

commitments, is summarized by portfolio segment and class of 

financing receivable in the following table:
                                  December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009  Commercial:
         Commercial and industrial
 $  185,947
   187,319
    Real estate mortgage
    4,596
   5,138
    Real estate construction
    5,698
   9,385
    Foreign
    7,775
   4,468
      Total commercial
    204,016
   206,310
  Consumer:
         Real e
state 1
-4 family first mortgage
    36,562
   33,460
    Real estate 1
-4 family
           junior lien mortgage
    58,618
   63,338
    Credit card
    62,019
   65,952
    Other revolving credit and installment
    18,458
   20,778
      Total consumer
    175,65
7   183,528
        Total unfunded
               credit commitments
 $  379,673
   389,838
  132    Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)
 The 
ACL
 is management™s estimate of credit losses inherent in 
the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at 
the b
alance sheet date. We have an established process to 
determine the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses that 

assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio and related 

unfunded credit commitments. While we attribute portions of 

the allowance to speci
fic 
portfolio segments
, the entire allowance 
is 
available
 to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan 
portfolio
 and unfunded credit commitments
.  Our process involves procedures to appropriately consider 
the unique risk characteristics of our commer
cial and consumer 
loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio segment, impairment 

is measured collectively for groups of 
smaller 
loans with similar 
characteristics, individually for
 larger
 impaired 
loans 
or, for PCI 
loans, based on the changes in cash flow
s expected to be 
collected
.  Our allowance levels are influenced by loan volumes, loan 
grade migration or delinquency status, historic loss experience 

influencing loss factors, and other conditions influencing loss 

expectations
, such as 
economic 
conditions
. We have had limited 
changes in our allowance methodology primarily associated with 

integration alignment of loss estimation processes between 

Wells Fargo and Wachovia. Those changes did not significantly 

impact the allowance for credit losses.
   COMMERCI
AL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
 ACL METHODOLOGY
 Generally, commercial loans are assessed for estimated losses by 

grading each loan using various risk factors as identified through 

periodic reviews. We apply historic grade
-specific loss factors to 
the aggregation of each funded grade pool. These historic loss 

factors are also used to estimate losses for unfunded credit 

commitments. 
In the development of our statistically derived 
loan grade loss factors, we observe historical losses over a 

relevant period for each loan 
grade.
 These loss estimates are 
adjusted as appropriate based on additional analysis of long
-term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted 

losses, external loss data or other risks identified from current 

economic conditions and credit qua
lity trends. 
 The allowance also includes an amount for the estimated 
impairment on nonaccrual commercial loans and commercial 

loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual 

status.
   CONSUMER PORTFOLIO S
EGMENT ACL METHODOLO
GY  For 
consumer lo
ans, not identified as a TDR, we determine the 

allowance on a collective basis
 utilizing forecasted losses to 
represent our best estimate of inherent loss
. We pool loans, 
generally by product type
s with similar risk characteristics, such 
as residential rea
l estate mortgages and credit cards. As 
appropriate, to achieve greater accuracy, we 
may further stratify
 selected portfolios by sub
-product, origination channe
l, vintage, 
loss type, geographic location
 and other predictive 
characteristics.
 Models designed
 for each pool are utilized to 
develop the loss estimates.
 We use assumptions for these pools 
in our 
forecast
 models, such as historic delinquency and default, 
loss severity, home price trends, unemployment trends, and 

other key economic variables that may
 influence the frequency 
and severity of losses in the pool. 
  In addition, we establish an allowance for consumer loans 
that have been modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or 

nonaccrual status.
  OTHER ACL MATTERS
  Commercial and consumer PCI loans 
may re
quire an allowance subsequent to their acquisition. This 
allowance requirement is due to probable decreases in expected 

principal and interest cash flows (other than due to decreases in 

interest 
rate indices
 and changes in prepayment assumptions
).  The all
owance for credit losses for both portfolio segments 
includes an amount for imprecision or uncertainty that may 

change from period to period.
 This amount represents 
management™s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and 

assumptions used in establishi
ng the allowance. This 
imprecision considers economic environmental factors, 

modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and other 

subjective factors, including industry trends.
    133 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
     The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance
 for loa
n losses and the 
allowance
 for unfunded credit commitments.
 Changes in the allowance for credit losses were:
                                          Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
      2010
     2009   2008   2007   2006  Balance, beginning of ye
ar $  25,031
     21,711
   5,518
   3,964
   4,057
  Provision for credit losses
    15,753
     21,668
   15,979
   4,939
   2,204
  Interest income on certain impaired loans (1)
    (266)
    -   -   -   -  Loan charge
-offs:
                 Commercial:
                   Commercial and industrial
    (2,775)
    (3,365)
  (1,653)
  (629)
  (414)
     Real estate mortgage 
    (1,151)
    (670)
  (29)
  (6)
  (5)
     Real estate construction
    (1,189)
    (1,063)
  (178)
  (14)
  (2)
     Lease financing
    (120)
    (229)
  (65)  (33)
  (30)
     Foreign
    (198)
    (237)
  (245)
  (265)
  (281)
       Total commercial 
    (5,433)
    (5,564)
  (2,170)
  (947)
  (732)
   Consumer:
                     Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    (4,900)
    (3,318)
  (540)
  (109)
  (103)
     Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    (4,934)
    (4,812)
  (2,204)
  (648)
  (154)
     Credit card
    (2,396)
    (2,708)
  (1,563)
  (832)
  (505)
     Other revolving credit and installment
    (2,437)
    (3,423)
  (2,300)
  (1,913)
  (1,685)
       Tota
l consumer
    (14,667)
    (14,261)
  (6,607)
  (3,502)
  (2,447)
         Total loan charge
-offs
    (20,100)
    (19,825)
  (8,777)
  (4,449)
  (3,179)
 Loan recoveries:
                 Commercial:
                   Commercial and industrial
    427     254   114   119   111      Real estate mortgage 
    68     33   5   8   19      Real estate construction 
    110     16   3   2   3      Lease financing
    20     20   13   17   21      Foreign
    53     40   49   65   76        Total commercial 
    678     363   184   211   230    Consumer:
                     Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    522     185   37   22   26      Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    211     174   89   53   36      Credit card
    218     180   147   120   96      Other revolving credit and installment 
    718     755   481   504   537        Total consumer
    1,669
     1,294
   754   699   695          Total loan recoveries
    2,347
     1,657
   938   910   925            Net loan charge
-offs (2)
    (17,753)
    (18,168)
  (7,839)
  (3,539)
  (2,254)
 Allowances related to business combinations/other (3)
    698     (180)
  8,053
   154   (43)
 Balance, end of year
 $  23,463
     25,031
   21,711
   5,518
   3,964
  Components:
                   Allowance for loan losses
 $  23,022
     24,516
   21,013
   5,307
   3,764
    Allowance for unfunded credit commitments
    441     515   698   211   200      Allowance for credit losses (4)
 $  23,463
     25,031
   21,711
   5,518
   3,964
  Net loan charge
-offs as a percentage of aver
age total loans (2)
    2.30
  %  2.21
   1.97
   1.03
   0.73
  Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans (4)
    3.04
     3.13
   2.43
   1.39
   1.18
  Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of total loans (4)
    3.10
     3.20
   2.51
   1.44
   1.24
                                    (1)
 Effective 2010, 
certain impaired loans 
with
 an allowance calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the loan™s effective interest rate over the remaining life of t
he 
loan
 recognize reductions in allowanc
e as interest income.
 (2)
 For PCI loans, charge
-offs are only recorded
 to the extent that losses exceed the purchase accounting estimates.
 (3)
 Includes $693 million related to the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010.
 (4)
 The allowance for 
credit losses includes $298 million and $333 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009
, respectively, related to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans 
acquired from Wachovia are included in total loans net of related purchase accounting net write
-downs.
 134     Th
e following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for credit losses by our commercial and consumer portfolio segment
s.                            Year ended December 31, 2010
  (in millions) 
 Commercial
 Consumer
 Total
 Balance, beginning of year
 $  8,141
   16,890
   25,031
    Provision for credit losses
    4,913
   10,840
   15,753
    Interest income on certain impaired loans 
    (139)
  (127)
  (266)
                   Loan charge
-offs
    (5,433)
  (14,667)
  (20,100)
   Loan recoveries
    678   1,66
9   2,347
      Net loan charge
-offs
    (4,755)
  (12,998)
  (17,753)
   Allowance related to business combinations/other
    9   689   698  Balance, end of year
 $  8,169
   15,294
   23,463
                  The following 
table disaggregates our allowance fo
r credit losses and recorded investment in loans by impairment methodology.
                                  December 31, 2010
           Allowance for credit losses
   Recorded investment in loans
  (in millions)  
   Commercial
 Consumer
 Total
   Commercial
 Consumer
 Total
 Collectively evaluated (1)
 $  5,424
   11,539
   16,963
     302,392
   387,707
   690,099
  Individually evaluated (2)
    2,479
   3,723
   6,202
     11,731
   14,007
   25,738
  PCI (3)
    266   32   298     7,935
   33,495
   41,430
    Total
 $  8,169
   15,294
   23,463
     322,058
   435,209
   757,267
                          (1)
 Represents loans collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 450
-20, Loss Contingencies
 (formerly FAS 5), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010
-20 
regarding
 allowance for unimpaired loans. 
 (2)
 Represents loans individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310
-10, 
Receivables
 (formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010
-20 
regarding allowance for impaired loans. 
 (3)
 Represents the allowa
nce and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC 310
-30, Receivables 
Œ Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated 
Credit Quality
 (formerly SOP 03
-3) and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010
-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans.
 135 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
    Credit Quality
 We monitor credit quality as indicated by evaluating various 
attributes and utilize such information in our evaluation of the 

adequacy of the allowance for credit losses.
 The following 
sections provide the credit quality indicators we most
 closely 
monitor.
 The majority of credit quality indicators are based on 
December 31, 2010, information, with the exception of updated 

FICO and updated loan
-to-value (LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV), 
which are obtained at least quarterly. Generally, these indicat
ors 
are updated in the second month of each quarter, with updates 

no older than September 30, 2010.
  COMMERCIAL CREDIT QU
ALITY INDICATORS
 In addition to 
monitoring commercial loan concentration risk, we manage a 

consistent process for assessing commercial 
loan credit quality. 
Commercial loans are subject to individual risk assessment using 
our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings. 
Our ratings 

are aligned to Pass and Criticized categories. The Criticized 

category includes Special Mention, Substan
dard, and Doubtful 

categories which are defined by banking regulatory agencies.
  The table below provides a breakdown of outstanding 
commercial loans 
(excluding PCI
 loans
) by risk 
category
. Both 
the 
CRE
 mortgage and construction criticized totals are 
relat
ively high as a result of the current conditions in the real 
estate market. Of the $37.1 billion in criticized 
CRE
 loans, 
$7.9
 billion has been placed on nonaccrual 
status 
and written 
down to net realizable value. Loans in both populations have a 

high leve
l of surveillance and monitoring in place to manage 

these assets and mitigate any loss exposure.
 See the ﬁPurchased 
Credit
-Impaired
 Loans
ﬂ section of this Note for credit
 quality 
information on our commercial PCI portfolio.
                           Dece
mber 31, 2010
           Commercial
 Real
 Real
                   and
 estate
 estate
 Lease
     (in millions)
   industrial
 mortgage
 construction
 financing
 Foreign
 Total
 By risk category:
                 
 Pass
 $  126,058
   70,597
   11,256
   12,411
   30,341
   250,663
      
 Criticized
    24,508
   25,983
   11,128
   683   1,158
   63,460
      Total commercial loans (excluding PCI)
 $  150,566
   96,580
   22,384
   13,094
   31,499
   314,123
                           In addition, while we monitor past due status,
 we do not 
consider it a key driver of our credit risk management practices 

for commercial loans. The following table provides past due 

information for commercial loans, excluding PCI loans.
                                    December 31, 2010
   Commerc
ial
 Real
 Real
                   and 
 estate
 estate
 Lease
     (in millions)
   industrial
 mortgage
 construction
 financing
 Foreign
 Total
 By delinquency status:
                 
 Current or 1
-29 DPD
 $  146,135
   90,233
   19,005
   12,927
   31,350
   299,650
    30-89 DPD
    910   1,016
   510   59   -   2,495
    90+ DPD and still accruing
    308   104   193   -   22   627    Nonaccrual loans
    3,213
   5,227
   2,676
   108   127   11,351
      Total commercial loans (excluding PCI)
 $  150,566
   96,580
   22,384
   13,094
   31,499
   314,123
                          CONSUMER CREDIT QUAL
ITY INDICATORS
  We have various 
classes of consumer loans that present respective unique risks. 

Loan delinquency, FICO credit scores and LTV for loan types are 

common credit quali
ty indicators that we monitor and utilize in 
our evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses 

for the consumer portfolio segment. 
  The majority of our loss estimation techniques used for the 
allowance for credit losses rely on delinquency
 matrix models or 
delinquency roll rate models. Therefore, delinquency is an 

important indicator of credit quality and the establishment of 

our allowance for credit losses.
 136    The following table provides the outstanding balances of our consumer portfolio by
 delinquency status
, excluding PCI loans
.                                  December 31, 2010
             Real estate
 Real estate
   Other
               1-4 family
 1-4 family
   revolving
               first 
 junior lien
 Credit
 credit and
   (in millions)
   mortgage
 mortgage
 card
 installment
 Total
 By delinquency status:
               
 Current
 $  159,321
   89,408
   20,546
   74,083
   343,358
    1-29 DPD
    5,597
   3,104
   730   8,635
   18,066
    30-59 DPD
    4,993
   917   262   1,802
   7,974
    60-89 DP
D    2,911
   608   207   691   4,417
    90-119 DPD
    4,152
   476   190   371   5,189
    120-179 DPD
    5,363
   764   324   349   6,800
    180+ DPD
    14,653
   622   1   634   15,910
      Total consumer loans (excluding PCI)
 $  196,990
   95,899
   22,26
0   86,565
   401,714
                         Of the $27.9 billion of loans 90 days or more past due in the 
previous table, $14.1
 billion
, which excludes MHFS, represents
 insured/guaranteed 
loans whose repayments are insured by the 
FHA or guaranteed by t
he VA. Of the remaining $13.7
 billion 
of 
loans that are 90 days 
or more past due, $3.1 billion 
was accruing. 
Consumer
 loans are placed on nonaccrual 
status 
and 
written down to net realizable value
 depending on the loan type 
and the extent of delinquency (s
ee Note 1)
.   Of the $14.1
 billion in delinquent 
insured/guaranteed loans, 
$8.0
 billion are more than 180 
days past due
. Excluding 
these 
insured/guaranteed loans
, real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage 
loans
 180 days or more 
past due
 total
ed $6.
6 billion
, or 3.4
% of 
total first mortgages.
 The aging of the delinquent real estate 
 1-4 family first 
mortgage loans is a result of the prolonged 
foreclosure process and our effort to help customer
s stay in their 
homes through various loan modification programs
.  The
 following table provides a breakdown of our consumer 
portfolio by updated FICO. We obtain FICO scores at loan 

origination and the scores are updated at least quarterly. FICO is 

not available for certain loan types and may not be obtained if we 

deem it unn
ecessary due to strong collateral and other borrower 
attributes, primarily for government guaranteed student loans of 

$17.5 billion and securities
-based margin loans of $4.1 billion. 
The majority of our portfolio is underwritten with a FICO score 

of 680 an
d above. The table excludes PCI loans, which are 
included in the ﬁPurchased Credit
-Impaired Loansﬂ section of 
this Note.
                         December 31, 2010
             Real estate
 Real estate
   Other
               1-4 family
 1-4 family
   revolvi
ng               first 
 junior lien
 Credit
 credit and
   (in millions)
   mortgage
 mortgage
 card
 installment
 Total
 By updated FICO:
               
 < 600
 $  34,207
   9,037
   2,872
   10,809
   56,925
    600-639    14,422
   4,509
   1,826
   5,970
   26,727
    640-679    18,794
   7,729
   3,305
   8,354
   38,182
    680-719    26,435
   13,768
   4,522
   9,495
   54,220
    720-759    29,335
   20,322
   4,441
   8,827
   62,925
    760-799    47,054
   27,214
   3,215
   9,368
   86,851
    800+    19,702
   10,607
   1,794
   4,693
   36,796
    No 
FICO available
    7,041
   2,713
   285   7,457
   17,496
      
 FICO not required
    -   -   -   21,592
   21,592
      Total consumer loans (excluding PCI)
 $  196,990
   95,899
   22,260
   86,565
   401,714
                        137 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
    LTV
 refers to the ratio comparing the loan™s unpaid principal 
balance to the property™s collateral value. CLTV refers to the 
combination of 
first 
mortgage 
and junior lien 
mortgage ratios. 
LTVs and CLTVs are updated 
quarterly
 using
 a cascade approach 
which fir
st uses values provided by automated valuation models 
(AVMs
) for the property. 
If an AVM is not available, then the 
value is estimated using the original appraised value adjusted by 

the 
change in Home Price Index (HPI) for the property location. 
If an 
HPI 
is not available
, the original appraised value is used.
 The HPI value is normally the only method considered for high 

value properties as the AVM values have proven less accurate for 

these properties.
  The 
following table 
shows the most 
updated
 LTV and CLT
V distribution of the real estate 1
-4 family first and junior lien 
mortgage 
loan 
portfolios
 excluding PCI loans
. In recent years, 
the residential real estate markets have experienced significant 

declines in property values and several markets, particularly
 California and Florida have experienced declines that turned out 

to be more significant than the national decline.
 These trends are 
considered in the way that we monitor credit risk and establish 

our allowance for credit losses. LTV does not necessarily r
eflect 
the likelihood of performance of a given loan, but does provide 

an indication of collateral value. In the event of a default, any 

loss should be limited to the portion of the loan amount in excess 

of the net realizable value of the underlying real e
state collateral 
value. 
Certain loans do not have an LTV or CLTV 
primarily due 
to industry data availability and portfolios acquired from or 

serviced by other institutions.
                     December 31, 2010
             Real estate
 Real estate
               1-4 family
 1-4 family
               first 
 junior lien
               mortgage
 mortgage
   (in millions)
   by LTV
 by CLTV
 Total
 By LTV/CLTV:
           
 0-60%
 $  48,905
   14,814
   63,719
    60.01
-80%
    46,453
   17,744
   64,197
    80.01
-100%
    44,892
   24,255
   69,147
    100.01
-120% (1)
    28,587
   17,887
   46,474
    > 120% (1)
    24,578
   18,628
   43,206
      
 No LTV/CLTV available
    3,575
   2,571
   6,146
      Total (excluding PCI)
 $  196,990
   95,899
   292,889
                    (1)
 Reflec
ts total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the 
event of default, the loss content would generally be limited to only the amount 
in excess of 100% LTV/CLTV.
 NONACCRUAL LOANS
  The following table provides loans on 
nonaccrual status. 
PCI loans are excluded from this 
table 
due to 
the existence of the accretable yield
.                                  December 31,
 (in millions)
      2010
   2009  Commercial:
         Commercial and industrial
 $  3,213
   4,397
    Real estate mortgage
    5,227
   3,696
    Real estate construction
    2,676
   3,313
    Lease financing
    108   171    Foreign
    127   146      Total commercial (1)
    11,351
   11,723
  Consumer:
         Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage (2)
    12,289
   10,100
    Real
 estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    2,302
   2,263
    Other revolving credit and installment
    300   332      Total consumer
    14,891
   12,695
        Total nonaccrual loans
               (excluding PCI)
 $  26,242
   24,418
                    (1)
 Includes LHFS of $3 million and $27 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
respectively.
 (2)
 Includes MHFS of $426 million and $339 million at December 31, 2010 and 
2009, respectively.
 138    LOANS 
90 DAYS 
OR MORE 
PAST DUE AND STILL A
CCRUING
  Certain loans 90 days or
 more past due as to interest or principal 
are still accruing, because they are (1) well
-secured and in the 
process of collection or (2) real estate 1
-4 family mortgage loans 
or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being 
classified a
s nonaccru
al until later delinquency, usually 120 days 
past due. PCI loans of $11.6 billion at December 31, 2010, and 

$16.1 billion at December 31, 2009, are excluded from this 

disclosure even though they are 90 days or more contractually 

past due. These PCI loans a
re considered to be accruing 
due to 
the existence of the accretable yield and not based on 

consideration given to contractual interest payments.
  Non
-PCI loans 90 days or more past due
 and still accruing 
were $18.5
 billion at December 31, 2010, and $22.2 b
illion at 
December 31, 2009. Tho
se balances
 which include mortgage 
loans held for sale, have $14.7
 billion and $15.3
 billion, 
respectively, of 
insured/
guaranteed loans 
whose repayments are 
insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
The following table 
sho
ws non
-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and still 
accruing
, but excludes 
insured/
guaranteed loans.
                                December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009  Commercial:
         Commercial and industrial
 $  308   590    Real estate m
ortgage
    104   1,014
    Real estate construction
    193   909    Foreign
    22   73      Total commercial
    627   2,586
  Consumer:
         Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage (1)
    941   1,623
    Real estate 1
-4 family
           junior lien mo
rtgage (1)
    366   515    Credit card
    516   795    Other revolving credit and installment
    1,305
   1,333
      Total consumer
    3,128
   4,266
        Total (excluding PCI)
 $  3,755
   6,852
                    (1)
 Includes mortgage loans held for sale
 90 days or more past due and still 
accruing.
 139 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
    IMPAIRED LOANS
  The table below summarizes key information 
for impaired loans
. Our impaired loans include loans on 
nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment and loans 
modified in a TDR, whether on 
accrual or nonaccrual status. 
These impaired loans may have estimated impairment which is 

included in the allowance for credit losses. Impaired loans
 
exclude PCI loans. See the ﬁLoansﬂ section in Note 1 for our 

policies on impaired loans and PCI loans.
                                December 31, 2010
               Recorded investment
                   Impaired loans
               Unpaid 
   with related
 Related
             principal
 Impaired
 allowance for
 allowance for
 (in millions)
   balance
 loans
 credit losses
 credit losses
 Commercial: 
               
 Commercial and industrial
 $  8,190
   3,600
   3,276
   607      
 Real estate mortgage
    7,439
   5,239
   5,163
   1,282
      
 Real estate construction
    4,676
   2,786
   2,786
   548    Lease financing
    149   91   91   34      
 Foreign
    215   15   15   8          
   Total commercial
    20,669
   11,731
   11,331
   2,479
  Consumer:
               
 Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    12,834
   11,603
   11,603
   2,754
      
 Real estate 1
-4 family
 junior lien mortgage
    1,759
   1,626
   1,626
   578    Credit card
    548   548   548   333      
 Other revolving credit and installment
    231   230   230   58          
   Total consumer
    15,372
   14,007
   14,007
   3,723
              
     Total (ex
cluding PCI)
 $  36,041
   25,738
   25,338
   6,202
                       The following table 
summarizes key information for impaired 
loans as of December 31, 2009.
                              December 31, 2009 (1)
 (in millions)
 Commercial
 Consumer
 Tota
l Recorded investment:
             
 Impaired loans
 $  10,562
   8,268
   18,830
      
 Impaired loans with a related
             
   allowance for credit losses
    9,666
   8,268
   17,934
              Related allowance for credit losses
    1,502
   1,765
   3,267
                         (1)
 Balances have been revised to conform to our current classification of certain 
small commercial loans as impaired.
 140      Commitments to lend additional funds on loans whose terms 
have been modified in 
a TDR
 amounted to $1.2 b
illion and 
$452
 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 These commitments primarily relate to CRE loans, which, at the 
time of modification, had an amount of availability to the 

borrower that continues under the modified terms of the TDR 

and t
otaled $861 million and $134 million at December
 31,
 2010 
and 2009, respectively.
  The following table provides the average recorded investment 
in impaired loans and the amount of interest income recognized 

on impaired loans after impairment by portfolio s
egment and 
class. 
                            Year ended
           December 31, 2010
             Average
 Recognized
             recorded
 interest
 (in millions)
   investment
 income
 Commercial: 
           
 Commercial and industrial
 $  4,098
   64     
  Real estate mortgage
    4,598
   41      
 Real estate construction
    3,203
   28    Lease financing
    166   -      
 Foreign
    47   -          
   Total commercial
    12,112
   133  Consumer:
         Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    9,221
   494    Real estate 1
-4 family
           
   junior lien mortgage
    1,443
   55    Credit card
    360   13    Other revolving credit and installment
    132   3          
   Total consumer
    11,156
   565              
     Total impaired loans
 $  23,268
   698                    The following table presents 
the average recorded investment 
in impaired loans and 
interest income recognized on impaired 

loans after impairment.
                              Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Average recorded investment
           in impaired loans
 $  23,268
   10,557
   1,952
  Interest income:
         Cash basis of accounting
 $  250   130   34  Other (1)
    448   102   9          
 Total interest income
 $   698   232   43                    (1)
 Includes interest recognized on accruing TDRs
, interest recognized related to 
the passage of time
, and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments 
related
 to certain impaired loans. See footnote 1 to the table of changes in the 
allowance for
 credit losses.
 141 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
    Purchased Credit
-Impaired Loans
 Certain loans acquired in the Wachovia acquisition are 
accounted for as PCI 
loans. The following
 table presents PCI 
loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments.
                                 December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Commercial: 
             
 Commercial and industrial
 $  718   1,911
   4,580
      
 Real estate mortgage
    2,855
   4,137
   5,803
      
 Real estate construction
    2,949
   5,207
   6,462
      
 Foreign
    1,413
   1,733
   1,859
          
   Total commercial
    7,935
   12,988
   18,704
  Consumer:
             
 Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    33,245
   38,386
   39,214
      
 Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    250   331   728      
 Other
 revolving credit and installment
    -   -   151          
   Total consumer
    33,495
   38,717
   40,093
              
     Total PCI loans (carrying value)
 $  41,430
   51,705
   58,797
  Total PCI loans (unpaid principal balance)
 $  64,331
   83,615
   98,18
2                    ACCRETABLE YIELD
  The excess of cash flows expected to be 
collected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the 

accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an 

effective yield method over the remaining 
life of the loan, or 

pools of loans. The accretable yield is affected by:
  Changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans 
Œ Expected future cash flows are based on the variable rates in 

effect at the time of the regular evaluations of cash flo
ws 
expected to be collected;
  Changes in prepayment assumptions 
Œ Prepayments affect 
the estimated life of PCI loans which may change the 

amount of interest income, and possibly principal, expected 

to be collected; and
  Changes in the expected principal and
 interest payments 
over the estimated life 
Œ Updates to expected cash flows are 
driven by the credit outlook and actions taken with 

borrowers. Changes in expected future cash flows from loan 

modifications are included in the regular evaluations of cash 

flo
ws expected to be collected.
   The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is 
presented in the following table.
                                  Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
  2010
   2009  Total, beginning of year 
 $  14,559
   10,44
7    Accretion 
    (2,435)
  (2,606)
   Reclassification from nonaccretable difference for loans with improving cash flows 
    3,399
   441    Changes in expected cash flows that do not affect nonaccretable difference (1)
    1,191
   6,277
  Total, end of y
ear 
 $  16,714
   14,559
                     (1)
 Represents changes in cash flows expected to be collected, changes in interest rates on variable rate PCI loans, and the impact of modifications on expected cash flows.
 142    PCI ALLOWANCE
  When it is estimated that
 the cash flows 
expected to be collected have decreased subsequent to 
acquisition for a PCI loan or pool of loans, an allowance is 
established and a provision for additional loss is recorded as a 

charge to income. The following table summarizes the changes
 in 
allowance for PCI loan losses.
                              Other
   (in millions)
   Commercial
 Pick
-a-Pay
 consumer
 Total
 Balance, December 31, 2008
 $  -   -   -   -    Provision for losses due to credit deterioration
    850   -   3   853    Charg
e-offs 
    (520)
  -   -   (520)
 Balance, December 31, 2009
    330   -   3   333    Provision for losses due to credit deterioration
    712   -   59   771    Charge
-offs 
    (776)
  -   (30)
  (806)
 Balance, December 31, 2010
 $  266   -   32   298                  COMMERCIAL PCI CREDI
T QUALITY INDICATORS
  The following table provides a breakdown of commercial PCI loans by risk 
category.
                         December 31, 2010
           Commercial
 Real
 Real
                 and
 estate
 estate
     (in 
millions)
   industrial
 mortgage
 construction
 Foreign
 Total
 By risk category:
               
 Pass
 $  214   352   128   210   904      
 Criticized
    504   2,503
   2,821
   1,203
   7,031
      Total commercial PCI loans
 $  718   2,855
   2,949
   1,413
   7,9
35                        CONSUMER
 PCI CREDIT QUALITY I
NDICATORS
  Our consumer 
PCI loans were aggregated into several pools of loans at 

acquisition. Below, we have provided credit quality indicators 

based on the individual loans included in the pool, bu
t we have 
not allocated the remaining purchase accounting adjustments, 

which were established at a pool level. T
he following table 
provides the delinquency status 
of consumer PCI loans
.                              December 31, 2010
             Real est
ate
 Real estate
               1-4 family
 1-4 family
               first 
 junior lien
   (in millions)
   mortgage
 mortgage
 Total
 By delinquency status:
             
 Current
 $  29,253
   357   29,610
    1-29 DPD
    44   79   123    30-59 DPD
    3,586
   30   3,616
    60-89 DPD
    1,364
   17   1,381
    90-119 DPD
    881   13   894    120-179 DPD
    1,346
   19   1,365
    180+ DPD
    7,214
   220   7,434
      Total consumer PCI loans
 $  43,688
   735   44,423
      Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value
) $  33,245
   250   33,495
                           143 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued)
     The following table provides 
FICO scores for
 consumer
 PCI loans.
                     December 31, 2010
             Real estate
 Real estate
               1-4 family
 1-4 family
               first
  junior lien
   (in millions)
   mortgage
 mortgage
 Total
 By FICO:
           
 < 600
 $  22,334
   363   22,697
    600-639    7,563
   109   7,672
    640-679    6,185
   96   6,281
    680-719    3,949
   60   4,009
    720-759    2,057
   17   2,074
    760-799    1,087
   7   1,094
    800+    232   2   234      
 No FICO available
    281   81   362      Total consumer PCI loans
 $  43,688
   735   44,423
      Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value)
 $  33,245
   250   33,495
                           The 
following table shows the distribution of consumer PCI loans by LTV for real estate 1
-4 family first mortgages and by CLTV
 for real 
estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgages.
                     December 31, 2010
             Real estate
 Real estate
               1-4 family
 1-4 family
               first 
 junior lien
               mortgage
 mortgage
   (in millions)
   by LTV
 by CLTV
 Total
 By LTV/CLTV:
             
 0-60%
 $  1,653
   43   1,696
    60.01
-80%
    5,513
   42   5,555
    80.01
-100%
    11,861
   89   11,950
    100.01
-120%
    9,525
   116   9,641
    > 120%
    15,047
   314   15,361
      
 No LTV/CLTV available
    89   131   220      Total consumer PCI loans 
 $  43,688
   735   44,423
      Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value)
 $  33,245
   250   33,495
                           144       Note 7:  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets
                            December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009  Land
 $  1,825
   2,140
  Buildings
    7,440
   8,143
  Furniture and equipment
    6,689
   6,232
  Leasehold improvements
    1,683
   1,381
  Premises and equipment leased
         under capital leases
    148   152      Total premises and equipment
    17,785
   18,048
  Less: Accumulated depreciation
         and amortization
    8,141
   7,312
        Net book value,
               premises and equipment
 $  9,644
   10,736
   Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and 
equipment was $1.5 billion, $1.3 billion and $861 million in 

2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
  Dispositions 
of premises and equipment, included in 
noninteres
t expense, resulted in net losse
s of $115 million in 
2010, net losses of $22
 million in 2009 and
 net gains of 
$3
 million in 2008.
  We have obligations under a number of noncancelable 
operating leases for pre
mises and equipment. The terms of these 

leases are predominantly up to 15 years, with the longest up to 

95 years, and many provide for periodic adjustment of rentals 

based on changes in various economic indicators. Some leases 

also include a renewal option
. The following table provides the 
future minimum payments under capital leases and 

noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease rentals, with 

terms greater than one year as of December 31, 2010.
                        Operating
   Capital
 (in millions
)   leases
   leases
 Year ended December 31,
         2011  $  1,134
     14  2012     1,235
     5  2013     1,099
     5  2014     944     4  2015     788     3  Thereafter
    3,405
     21    Total minimum lease payments
 $  8,605
     52  Executory co
sts
     $  (14)
 Amounts representing interest
        (12)
 Present value of net minimum
           lease payments
     $  26    Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premise
s), 
net of rental income, was $
1.3
 billion, $
1.4 billion and 
$709
 mil
lion 
in 2010,
 2009 and 2008, respectively.
  The components of other assets were:
                                  December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009  Nonmarketable equity investments:
       Cost method:
           Private equity investments
 $  3,240
   3,808
      Federal bank stock
    5,254
   5,985
        Total cost method
    8,494
   9,793
    Equity method
    7,624
   5,138
    Principal investments (1)
    305   1,423
          Total nonmarketable 
                 equity investments 
  16,423
   16,354
  Corporate/bank
-owned life insurance
    19,845
   19,515
  Accounts receivable
    23,763
   20,565
  Interest receivable
    4,895
   5,946
  Core deposit intangibles
    8,904
   10,774
  Customer relationship and 
         other amortized intangibles
    1,847
   2,154
  Net deferred tax assets
    -   3,212
  Foreclosed assets:
         GNMA (2)
    1,479
   960    Other
    4,530
   2,199
  Operating lease assets
    1,873
   2,395
  Due from customers on acceptances
  229   810  Other
    15,993
   19,296
            Total other assets
 $  99,781
   104,180
                    (1)
 Principal investments are recorded at fair value with realized and unrealized 
gains (losses) included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the 

income statement. 
  (2)
 These
 are
 foreclosed real estate securing 
FHA insured and VA guaranteed
 loans. 
Both principal and interest for 
these
 loans secured by the foreclosed real estate 
are collectible because 
they 
are insured
/guaranteed.
    Income related to nonmarketable equity inves
tments was:
                                Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Net gains (losses) from:
           Private equity investments (1)
 $  492   (368)
  251    Principal investments
    42   79   -    All other nonmark
etable 
             equity investments
    (188)
  (234)
  (10)
   Net gains (losses) from
             nonmarketable equity
             investments
 $  346   (523)
  241                    (1)
 Net gains in 2008 include $334 million gain from our ownership 
in Visa, which 

completed its initial public offering in March 2008. 
 145     Note 8: 
 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities
       Involvement with SPEs
 In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of 
on- and off
-balance sheet transacti
ons with special purpose 
entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships 

that are established for a limited purpose. Historically, the 

majority of SPEs were formed in connection with securitization 

transactions. In a securitization transact
ion, assets from our 
balance sheet are transferred to an SPE, which then issues to 

investors various forms of interests in those assets and may also 

enter into derivative transactions. In a securitization transaction, 

we typically receive cash and/or other
 interests in an SPE as 
proceeds for the assets we transfer. Also, in certain transactions, 

we may retain the right to service the transferred receivables and 

to repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the outstanding 

balance of the receivables falls 
to a level where the cost exceeds 
the benefits of servicing such receivables. In addition, we may 

purchase the right to service loans in an SPE that were 

transferred to the SPE by a third party.
  In connection with our securitization activities, we have 
va
rious forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may 
include:
  underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently 

making markets in those securities;
  providing liquidity facilities to support short
-term 
obligations of SPEs issued to third party 
inv
estors;
  providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs 

or market value guarantees of assets held by SPEs through 

the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit 

default swaps and total return swaps;
  entering into other derivative contr
acts with SPEs;
  holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 
  acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and
  providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs.
     SPEs are generally considered variable interest entities 
(VIEs). A VIE is a
n entity that has either a total equity 
investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without 

additional subordinated financial support or whose equity 

investors lack the ability to c
ontrol the entity™s activities. A 
VIE is 
consolidated by its 
primary beneficiary, the party that has both 

the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact 

the VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be 

significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, 

ownership or other intere
st that changes with changes in the fair 
value of the VIE™s net assets. To determine whether or not a 

variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the 

VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors 

regarding the nature, size an
d form of our involvement with the 
VIE. 
We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of 
a VIE on an on
-going basis.
  We have segregated our involvement with VIEs between 
those VIEs which we consolidate, those which we do not 

consolidate and tran
sfers of financial assets that are accounted 
for as secured borrowings. Secured borrowings are transactions 

involving transfers of our financial assets to third parties that are 

accounted for as financings with the assets pledged as collateral. 

Accordingly
, the transferred assets remain recognized on our 
balance sheet. Subsequent tables within this Note further 

segregate these transactions by structure type.
 146    The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance sheet associated with our transactions
 with VIEs follow:
                                          Transfers that
             VIEs that we
   VIEs
 we account
             do not
   that we
 for as secured
     (in millions)
 consolidate
 consolidate
 borrowings
   Total
                         Dec
ember 31, 2010
                                         Cash 
 $  -     200     398     598  Trading assets 
    5,351
     143     32     5,526
  Securities available for sale 
(1)
    24,001
     2,159
     7,834
     33,994
  Loans
    12,400
     16,708
     1,613
     30,721
  Mortgage servicing rights
    13,262
     -     -     13,262
  Other assets 
    3,783
     2,039
     90     5,912
    Total assets 
    58,797
     21,249
     9,967
     90,013
  Short
-term borrowings 
    -     3,636
  (2)
  7,773
     11,409
  Acc
rued expenses and other liabilities 
    3,514
     716  (2)
  14     4,244
  Long
-term debt 
    -     8,377
  (2)
  1,700
     10,077
    Total liabilities
    3,514
     12,729
     9,487
     25,730
  Noncontrolling interests 
    -     40     -     40      Net a
ssets
 $  55,283
     8,480
     480     64,243
                          December 31, 2009
                                         Cash 
 $  -     273     328     601  Trading assets 
    6,097
     77     35     6,209
  Securities available for sale (1)
    35,186
     1,794
     7,126
     44,106
  Loans
    15,698
     561     2,007
     18,266
  Mortgage servicing rights 
    16,233
     -     -     16,233
  Other assets 
    5,604
     2,595
     68     8,267
    Total assets 
    78,818
     5,300
     9,564
     93,682
  Short
-term borrowings 
    -     351     1,996
     2,347
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
    3,352
     708     4,864
     8,924
  Long
-term debt (3)
    -     1,163
     1,938
     3,101
    Total liabilities
    3,352
     2,222
     8,798
     14,37
2  Noncontrolling interests 
    -     68     -     68      Net assets
 $  75,466
     3,010
     766     79,242
                          (1)
 Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Feder
al Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and 
GNMA.
 (2)
 Includes the following VIE liabilities at December 31, 2010, with recourse to the general credit of Wells Fargo: Short
-term borrowings, $3.6 billion; Accrued expenses and 
other liabilities, $645 million; 
and Long
-term debt, $
53 million.
 (3)
 ﬁVIEs that we consolidateﬂ has been revised to correct previously reported amount.
  Transactions with Unconsolidated VIEs
 Our transactions with VIEs include securitizations of consumer 
loans, CRE loans, student loans, auto
 loans and municipal 
bonds; investment and financing activities involving CDOs 

backed by asset
-backed and CRE securities, collateralized loan 
obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate loans or bonds, and 

other types of structured financing. We have various fo
rms of 

involvement with VIEs, including holding senior or subordinated 

interests, entering into liquidity arrangements, credit default 

swaps and other derivative contracts. These involvements with 

unconsolidated VIEs are recorded on our balance sheet 

prima
rily in trading assets, securities available for sale, loans, 
MSRs, other assets and other liabilities, as appropriate.
  The following tables provide a summary of unconsolidated 
VIEs with which we have significant continuing involvement, but 

are not the pr
imary beneficiary. The balances presented for 
December 31, 2010,
 represent our unconsolidated VIEs for 
which we consider our involvement to be significant. The 
balances presented for December 31, 2009, 
include 

unconsolidated VIEs with which we have continu
ing 
involvement that we no longer consider significant. Accordingly, 

we have excluded these transactions
 from the balances presented 
for December 31, 2010
. We have refined our definition of 
significant continuing involvement in accordance with 

consolidatio
n accounting guidance to exclude unconsolidated 
VIEs when our continuing involvement relates to third
-party 
sponsored VIEs for which we were not the transferor, and 

unconsolidated VIEs for which we were the sponsor but do not 

have any other significant con
tinuing involvement.
  Significant continuing involvement includes transactions 
where we were the sponsor or transferor and have other 

significant forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes 

transactions with unconsolidated VIEs where we solely or 

materially
 participated in the initial design or structuring of the 
entity or marketing of the transaction to investors. When we 
147 Note 8:  Securitizat
ions and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued)
    transfer assets to a VIE and account for the transfer as a sale, we 
are considered the transferor. We consider investments in 

securities 
held outside of trading, loans, guarantees, liquidity 

agreements, written options and servicing of collateral to be 

other forms of involvement that may be significant. We have 

excluded certain transactions with unconsolidated VIEs from the 
December 31, 201
0, balances presented in the table below where 
we have determined that our continuing involvement is not 

significant due to the temporary nature and size of our variable 

interests, because we were not the transferor or because we were 

not involved in the d
esign or operations of the unconsolidated 
VIEs.
                                                  Other
               Total
   Debt and
     commitments
               VIE
   equity
 Servicing
   and
 Net
 (in millions)
   assets 
 interests 
(1)
 assets
 Derivativ
es guarantees
 assets
 December 31, 2010
                               Carrying value 
- asset (liability)
 Residential mortgage loan
                   securitizations:
                        Conforming
 $  1,068,737
     5,527
   12,115
   -   (928)
  16,714
         Other/nonconforming
    76,304
     2,997
   495   6   (107)
  3,391
  Commercial mortgage securitizations
    190,377
     5,506
   608   261   -   6,375
  Collateralized debt obligations:
                        Debt securities
    20,046
     1,436
   -   844   -   2,280
         Loans 
(2)
    9,970
     9,689
   -   -   -   9,689
  Asset
-based finance structures
    12,055
     6,556
   -   (118)
  -   6,438
  Tax credit structures
    20,981
     3,614
   -   -   (1,129)
  2,485
  Collateralized loan obligations
    13,196
     2,804
   -   56   -   2,860
  Investment funds 
    10,522
     1,416
   -   -   -   1,416
  Other 
(3)
    20,031
     3,221
   43   377   (6)
  3,635
      Total
 $  1,442,219
     42,766
   13,261
   1,426
   (2,170)
  55,283
                                            Maximum exposure to loss
 Residential mortgage loan
                   securitizations:
                     Conforming
     $  5,527
   12,115
   -   4,248
   21,890
      Other/nonconforming
        2,997
   495   6   233   3,731
  Commercial m
ortgage securitizations
        5,506
   608   488   -   6,602
  Collateralized debt obligation
s:                     Debt securities
        1,436
   -   2,850
   7   4,293
      Loans 
(2)
        9,689
   -   -   -   9,689
  Asset
-based finance structures
        6,556
   -   118   2,175
   8,849
  Tax credit structures
        3,614
   -   -   1   3,615
  Collateralized loan obligations
        2,804
   -   56   519   3,379
  Investment funds 
        1,416
   -   -   87   1,503
  Other 
(3)
        3,221
   43   916   162   4,342
      Total
     $  42,766
   13,261
   4,434
   7,432
   67,893
                            (continued on following page)
               148     (continued from previous page)
                                                                                       Other
               Total
   Debt and
     commitments
               VIE
   equity
 Servicing
   and
 Net
 (in millions)
   assets 
   interests (1)
 assets
 Derivatives
 guarantees
 assets
 December 31, 2009
                                 Carrying value
 - asset (liability)
 Residential mortgage loan securitizations (4):
                     
 Conforming
 $  1,150,515
     5,846
   13,949
   -   (869)
  18,926
      
 Other/nonconforming
    251,850
     11,683
   1,538
   16   (15)
  13,222
  Commercial mortgage sec
uritizations
    345,561
     3,760
   696   489   -   4,945
  Collateralized debt obligations:
                   Debt securities
    45,684
     3,024
   -   1,746
   -   4,770
    Loans (2)
    10,215
     9,964
   -   -   -   9,964
  Multi
-seller commercial pape
r conduit (5)
    5,160
     -   -   -   -   -  Asset
-based finance structures
    17,467
     10,187
   -   (72)
  (248)
  9,867
  Tax credit structures
    27,537
     4,659
   -   -   (653)
  4,006
  Collateralized loan obligations
    23,830
     3,602
   -   64   -   3,666
  Investment funds 
    84,642
     1,831
   -   -   (129)
  1,702
  Other (3)
    23,538
     3,626
   50   1,015
   (293)
  4,398
    Total
 $  1,985,999
     58,182
   16,233
   3,258
   (2,207)
  75,466
                                            Maximum e
xposure to loss
 Residential mortgage loan securitizations (4):
                   Conforming
     $  5,846
   13,949
   -   4,567
   24,362
    Other/nonconforming
        11,683
   1,538
   30   218   13,469
  Commercial mortgage securitizations
        3,760
   696   766   -   5,222
  Collateralized debt obligations:
                   Debt securities
        3,024
   -   3,586
   33   6,643
    Loans (2)
        9,964
   -   -   -   9,964
  Multi
-seller commercial paper conduit (5)
        -   -   5,263
   -   5,263
  Asset
-based finance structures
        10,187
   -   72   968   11,227
  Tax credit structures
        4,659
   -   -   4   4,663
  Collateralized loan obligations
        3,702
   -   64   473   4,239
  Investment funds (6)
        2,331
   -   500   218   3,049
  Other (3)
        3,626
   50   1,818
   1,774
   7,268
    Total
     $  58,782
   16,233
   12,099
   8,255
   95,369
                            (1)
 Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA.
 (2)
 Represents senior loans 
to trusts that are collateralized by asset
-backed securities. The trusts invest primarily in senior tranches from a diversified pool of primarily U.S. 
asset securitizations, of which all are current, and over 91% were rated as investment grade by the prima
ry rating agencies at December 31, 2010. These senior loans were 
acquired in the Wachovia business combination and are accounted for at amortized cost as initially determined under purchase 
accounting and are subject to the Company™s 
allowance and credit c
harge
-off policies.
 (3)
 Includes student loan securitizations, auto loan securitizations and credit
-linked note structures. Also contains investments in auction rate securities (ARS) issued by VIEs 
that we do not sponsor and, accordingly, are unable to obtain 
the total assets of the entity.
 (4)
 Total VIE assets at December 31, 2009, includes $20.9 billion of nonconforming residential mortgage securitizations that were
 consolidated in first quarter 2010.
 (5)
 The multi
-seller commercial paper conduit was consolidated in 
first quarter 2010.
 (6)
 ﬁOther commitments and guaranteesﬂ has been revised to correct previously reported amount.
 149 Note 8:  Securitizat
ions and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued)
     In the two preceding tables, ﬁTotal VIE assetsﬂ represents the 
remaining principal balance of assets held by unconsolidated 
VIEs using the most
 current information available. For VIEs that 
obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative 

instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is 

included in the asset balance. ﬁCarrying valueﬂ is the amount in 

our consolidated balan
ce sheet related to our involvement with 
the unconsolidated VIEs. ﬁMaximum exposure to lossﬂ from our 

involvement with off
-balance sheet entities, which is a required 
disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of 

our involvement with off
-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs 
plus the remaining undrawn liquidity and lending commitments, 

the notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and 

generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, 

other commitments and guarantees. 
It represents estimated loss 
that would be incurred under severe, hypothetical 

circumstances, for which we believe the possibility is extremely 

remote, such as where the value of our interests and any 

associated collateral declines to zero, without any con
sideration 
of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, 

this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss.
  RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS
  Residential mortgage loan 
securitizations are financed through the issuance of fixed
- or 
floating
-rate
-asset
-backed
-securities, which are collateralized by 
the loans transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we 

originated to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain 

the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficia
l interests issued by the VIEs. We also may be exposed to limited 

liability related to recourse agreements and repurchase 

agreements we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are 

included in other commitments and guarantees. In certain 

instances, we may
 service residential mortgage loan 
securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did 

not originate or transfer. Our residential mortgage loan 

securitizations consist of conforming and nonconforming 

securitizations.
  Conforming residential mort
gage loan securitizations are 
those that are guaranteed by GSEs, including GNMA. We do not 

consolidate our conforming residential mortgage loan 

securitizations because we do not have power over the VIEs.
  The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming residen
tial 
mortgage loan securitizations are those that do not qualify for a 

GSE guarantee. We do not consolidate the nonconforming 

residential mortgage loan securitizations included in the table 

because we do not have a variable interest that could potentially 

be significant or we do not have power to direct the activities 

that most significantly impact the performance of the VIE.
  Other commitments and guarantees include amounts related 
to loans sold that we may be required to repurchase, or 

otherwise indemnify
 or reimburse the investor or insurer for 
losses incurred, due to material breach of contractual 

representations and warranties. The maximum exposure to loss 

for material breach of contractual representations and 

warranties represents a stressed case estim
ate we utilize for 
determining stressed case regulatory capital needs.
  COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS 
Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are financed through 

the issuance of fixed
- or floating
-rate
-asset
-backed
-securities, 
which are collat
eralized by the loans transferred to the VIE. In a 
typical securitization, we may transfer loans we originate to 

these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to 

service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued 

by the VIE
s. In certain instances, we may service commercial 
mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose 

loans we did not originate or transfer. We typically serve as 

primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The primary or master 

servicer in a c
ommercial mortgage loan securitization typically 
cannot make the most significant decisions impacting the 

performance of the VIE and therefore does not have power over 

the VIE. We do not consolidate the commercial mortgage loan 

securitizations included in 
the disclosure because we either do 

not have power or do not have a variable interest
 that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE
.  COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)
  A CDO is a 
securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting 

of asset
-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of equity 
or notes to investors. In some transactions, a portion of the 

assets are obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives 

such as credit default swaps or total return swaps.
  Prior to 200
8, we engaged in the structuring of CDOs on 
behalf of third party asset managers who would select and 

manage the assets for the CDO. Typically, the asset manager has 

some discretion to manage the sale of assets of, or derivatives 

used by the CDO, which gen
erally gives the asset manager the 
power over the CDO. We have not structured these types of 

transactions since the credit market disruption began in late 

2007.
  In addition to our role as arranger we may have other forms 
of involvement with these transact
ions, including transactions 
established prior to 2008. Such involvement may include acting 

as liquidity provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market 

maker or investor. For certain transactions, we may also act as 

the collateral manager or servicer.
 We receive fees in connection 

with our role as collateral manager or servicer.
  We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs 
based on our role in the transaction in combination with the 

variable interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our 

ongoing involvement in these transactions to determine if the 

nature of our involvement has changed. We are not the primary 

beneficiary of these transactions in most cases because we do not 

act as the collateral manager or servicer, which generally denotes
 power. In cases where we are the collateral manager or servicer, 

we are not the primary beneficiary because we do not hold 

interests that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
        150    COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)
  A CLO is a 
securitization
 where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting 
of loans and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to 
investors. Generally, CLOs are structured on behalf of a third 

party asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets 

for the term of
 the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has the 
power over the significant decisions of the VIE through its 

discretion to manage the assets of the CLO. We assess whether 

we are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our role in the 

transaction and the var
iable interests we hold. In most cases, we 

are not the primary beneficiary of these transactions because we 

do not have the power to manage the collateral in the VIE.
  In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms 
of involvement with these t
ransactions. Such involvement may 
include acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty, 

secondary market maker or investor. For certain transactions, 

we may also act as the servicer, for which we receive fees in 

connection with that role. We also earn fe
es for arranging these 
transactions and distributing the securities.
  ASSET
-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES
  We engage in various 
forms of structured finance arrangements with VIEs that are 

collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, 

auto 
and other transportation leases, intellectual property, 
equipment and general corporate credit. We typically provide 

senior financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or 

commodity derivative counterparty when necessary. In most 

cases, we are not the p
rimary beneficiary of these structures 
because we do not have power over the significant activities of 

the VIEs involved in these transactions.
  For example, we ha
ve
 investments in asset
-backed securities 
that 
are collateralized by auto leases or loans and
 cash reserves. 
These fixed
-rate and variable
-rate securities have been 
structured as single
-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds 
that are equivalent to investment
-grade securities due to their 
significant overcollateralization. The securities are issu
ed by 
VIEs that have been formed by third party auto financing 
institutions primarily because they require a source of liquidity 

to fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The third party auto 

financing institutions manage the collateral in the VIEs, which 
is 

indicative of power in these transactions and we therefore do not 

consolidate these VIEs.
   TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES
  We co
-sponsor and make 
investments in affordable housing and sustainable energy 

projects that are designed to generate a return primarily 
through 

the realization of federal tax credits. In some instances, our 

investments in these structures may require that we fund future 

capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. 

While the size of our investment in a single entity may at
 times 
exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not 

consolidate these structures due to the project sponsor™s ability 

to manage the projects, which is indicative of power in these 

transactions.
  INVESTMENT FUNDS
  At 
December 31, 2010
, we had 
investments of $1.4 billion and lending arrangements of 

$14 million with certain funds managed by one of our majority 
owned subsidiaries compared with investments of $1.3 billion 

and lending arrangements of $20 million at 
December 31, 2009
. In addition, we
 also provide a default protection agreement to a 
third party lender to one of these funds. Our involvement in 

these funds is either senior or of equal priority to third party 

investors. We do not consolidate the investment funds because 

we do not absorb t
he majority of the expected future variability 
associated with the funds™ assets, including variability associated 

with credit, interest rate and liquidity risks. 
  OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs
  In August 2008, Wachovia 
reached an agreement to purchase at 
par 
auction rate securities 
(ARS
) that were sold to third
-party investors 
by certain of its 
subsidiaries. 
ARS are debt instruments with long
-term 
maturities, but
 which re
-price more frequently, and preferred 
equities with no maturity. 
All remaining ARS iss
ued by VIEs 
subject to the agreement were redeemed. At December 31, 2010
, we held in our securities available
-for
-sale portfolio $1.
6 billion 
of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed pursuant to this agreement, 

compared with $3.2 billion at 
December 31, 2009
.  On No
vember 18, 2009, we reached agreements to purchase 
additional ARS from eligible investors who bought ARS through 

one of our broker
-dealer subsidiaries. All remaining ARS issued 
by VIEs subject to the agreement were redeemed. As of 

December 31, 2010
, we hel
d in our securities available
-for
-sale 
portfolio $
892
 million of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed pursuant 
to this agreement. No securities had been redeemed related to 

this agreement at December 31, 2009
.  We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS bec
ause 
we do not have power over the activities of the VIEs. 
  TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES
 In addition to the 
involvements disclosed in the preceding table, we had 

$19.3
 billion 
and $19.1 billion 
of 
junior subordinated 
debt 
financing through the issuance of t
rust preferred securities at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively
. In these 
transactions, VIEs that we wholly own issue preferred equity or 

debt securities to third party investors. All of the proceeds of the 

issuance are invested in debt securi
ties th
at we issue to the VIEs. 
The VIEs™ operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance, 

administration and repayment of the securities held by third 

parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the sole assets 

of the VIEs are receivables from us. Th
is is the case even though 
we own all of the voting equity shares of the VIEs, have fully 

guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to 

redeem the third party securities under certain circumstances. 

We report the debt securities that we 
issue to the VIEs as long
-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet.
 See Note 13 and 
Note 17 for additional information related to our trust preferred 

security issuances.
 151 Note 8:  Securitizat
ions and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued)
     Securitization Activity Related to Unconsolidated 
VIEs
 We use VIEs to securitize 
consumer and CRE loans and other 
types of financial assets, including student loans, auto loans and 

municipal bonds. We typically retain the servicing rights from 

these sales and may continue to hold other beneficial interests in 

the VIEs. We may also prov
ide liquidity to investors in the 
beneficial interests and credit enhancements in the form of 

standby letters of credit. Through these securitizations we may 
be exposed to liability under limited amounts of recourse as well 

as standard representations and 
warranties we make to 

purchasers and issuers.
  We recognized net gains of $
27
 million from transfers 
accounted for as sales of financial assets in securitizations in 

2010
, and net gains of $1 million in 
2009
. Additionally, we had 
the following cash flows w
ith our securitization trusts that were 
involved in transfers accounted for as sales.
                        Year ended December 31,
        2010
     2009          Other
     Other
     Mortgage
 financial
   Mortgage
 financial
 (in millions)
   loans
 asset
s   loans
 assets
 Sales proceeds from securitizations (1)
 $  374,488
   -     394,632
   -  Servicing fees 
    4,316
   34     4,283
   42  Other interests held (2)
    1,786
   442     3,757
   310  Purchases of delinquent assets
    25   -     45   -  Net se
rvicing advances
    49   -     257   -                                  (1)
 Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented.
 (2)
 ﬁOther financial assets
ﬂ for 2009 has been revised to 
correct previously reported amount
.  Sales wit
h continuing involvement during 2010
 predominantly related to conforming residential mortgage 

securitizations. During 
2010
 we transferred $
379.0
 billion 
in fair 
value of
 conforming residential mortgages to unconsolidated 
VIEs and recorded the transfers as sal
es. These transfers did not 
result in a gain or loss because the loans are already carried at 
fair value. In connection with these transfers, in 
2010
 we 
recorded a $
4.5
 billion servicing asset and a $
144
 million 
liability for repurchase reserves, which are
 both 
initially 
measured at fair
 value
.  We used the following key assumptions to measure mortgage 
servicing assets at the date of securitization:
                Mortgage servicing rights
     2010
   2009 Prepayment speed (annual CPR (1))
  13.5
  %  13.4
  Life (in years)
  5.4
     5.6
  Discount rate
  8.0
  %  8.3
                      (1)
 Constant prepayment rate.
 152     Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current 
fair value to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions at 
December 31, 2010
, for residential and commercial mortgage 
servicing rights, and other interests held related primarily to 

residential mortgage loan securitizations are presented in the 

following table. In the following table ﬁOther interests heldﬂ 

exclude securities retaine
d in securitizations issued through 

GSEs such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA because we do not 
believe the value of these securities would be materially affected 

by the adverse changes in 
assumptions noted in the table. 

Subordinated interests include only those b
onds whose credit 
rating was below AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. 

Senior interests include only those bonds whose credit rating 

was AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. The information 

presented excludes trading positions held in inventory.
                                              Other interests held 
           Mortgage
 Interest
-                     servicing
   only
 Subordinated 
   Senior 
 (in millions)
   rights
   strips
     bonds 
   bonds 
 Fair value of interests held at December
 31, 2010
 $  16,279
     226       47     441  Expected weighted
-average life (in years)
    5.2
     5.2
       8.3
     4.5
                              Prepayment speed assumption (annual CPR)
    12.6
  %  11.4
       4.8
     18.1
      
 Decrease in fair va
lue from:
                           
   10% adverse change
 $  844     7       -     2          
   25% adverse change
    1,992
     16       -     6                              Discount rate assumption
    8.1
  %  17.8
       10.2
     6.8
    Decrease in f
air value from:
                           
   100 basis point increase
 $  777     6       3     14          
   200 basis point increase
    1,487
     13       6     27                              Credit loss assumption
              0.7
  %  3.7
    Decre
ase in fair value from:
                           
   10% higher losses
           $  -     1          
   25% higher losses
              -     3                                                          The sensitivities in the preceding table
 are hypot
hetical and 
caution should be exercised when relying on this data. Changes 

in value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be 

extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the 

assumption to the change in value may not be linear. Also,
 the 
effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the value of 

the other interests held is calculated independently without 

changing any other assumptions. In reality, changes in one 

factor may result in changes in others (for example, changes in 

prepayment speed estimates could result in changes in the credit 
losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
  The 
following 
table presents information about the principal 
balances of off
-balance sheet securitized loans, including 
residentia
l mortgages sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA and 
securitizations where servicing is our only form of continuing 

involvement. Delinquent loans include loans 90 days or more 

past due and still accruing interest as well as nonaccrual loans. 

Delinquent loans and n
et charge
-offs exclude loans sold to 
FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. We continue to service those loans 

and would only experience a loss if required to repurchase a 

delinquent loan due to a breach in original representations and 

warranties associated with their requ
ired underwriting 
standards.
                                                      Net charge
-offs
             Total loans 
   Delinquent loans 
   Year ended
             December 31,
   December 31,
   December 31,
 (in millions)
   2010
 2009   2010
 2009   2010
 2009 Commercial:
                       
 Commercial and industrial
 $  1   78     -   65     -   -      
 Real estate mortgage
    207,015
   221,516
     11,515
   7,208
     919   108      Total commercial
    207,016
   221,594
     11,515
   7,273
     919   108  Consumer:
                       
 Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    1,090,755
   1,062,938
     5,275
   7,501
     1,408
   1,287
      
 Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    1   3,292
     -   76     -   54      
 Other revolving credi
t and installment
    2,454
   5,104
     102   100     -   107          
   Total consumer
    1,093,210
   1,071,334
     5,377
   7,677
     1,408
   1,448
        Total off
-balance sheet securitized loans
 $  1,300,226
   1,292,928
     16,892
   14,950
     2,327
   1,556
  153 Note 8:  Securitizat
ions and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued)
    Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured 
Borrowings
 The following table presents a summary of transfers of financial 
assets
 accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements 
with consolidated VIEs. ﬁConsolidated assetsﬂ are presented 

using GAAP measurement methods, which may include fair 
value, credit impairment or other adjustments, and therefore in 

some instances will dif
fer from ﬁTotal VIE assets.ﬂ On the 
consolidated balance sheet, we separately disclose the 

consolidated assets of ce
rtain VIEs
 that can only be used to settle 
the liabilities of those VIEs.
                                                Carrying value 
             Total 
       Third
                     VIE
 Consolidated
   party
 Noncontrolling
   Net
 (in millions)
   assets
   assets 
   liabilities
   interests
   assets
 December 31, 2010
                                                   Secured borrowings: 
                          Municipal tender option bond securitizations
 $  10,687
     7,874
     (7,779)
    -     95       Auto loan securitizations 
    154     154     -     -     154       Commercial real estate loans 
    1,321
     1,321
     (1,272)
    -     49       Residential mortgage securitizations 
    700     618     (436)
    -     182             Total sec
ured borrowings 
    12,862
     9,967
     (9,487)
    -     480  Consolidated VIEs: 
                       Nonconforming residential
                            mortgage loan securitizations
    14,518
     13,529
     (6,723)
    -     6,806
       Multi
-sell
er commercial paper conduit
    3,197
     3,197
     (3,279)
    -     (82)
   Auto loan securitizations 
    1,010
     1,010
     (955)
    -     55       Structured asset finance
    146     146     (21)
    (11)
    114       Investment funds
    1,197
     1,19
7     (54)
    (14)
    1,129
       Other 
    2,173
     2,170
     (1,697)
    (15)
    458             Total consolidated VIEs 
    22,241
     21,249
     (12,729)
    (40)
    8,480
        Total secured borrowings and consolidated VIEs
 $  35,103
     31,216
     (22,216)
    (40)
    8,960
  December 31, 2009
                                                   Secured borrowings: 
                         
 Municipal tender option bond securitizations (1)
 $  9,649
     7,189
     (6,856)
    -     333      
 Auto loan 
securitizations 
    274     274     (121)
    -     153      
 Commercial real estate loans 
    1,309
     1,309
     (1,269)
    -     40      
 Residential mortgage securitizations 
    901     792     (552)
    -     240          
   Total secured borrowings 
    12,133
     9,564
     (8,798)
    -     766  Consolidated VIEs: 
                         
 Structured asset finance (2)
    2,791
     1,074
     (919)
    (10)
    145      
 Investment funds
    2,257
     2,245
     (271)
    (33)
    1,941
      
 Other (2)
    2,697
     1,981
     (1,032)
    (25)
    924          
   Total consolidated VIEs 
    7,745
     5,300
     (2,222)
    (68)
    3,010
        Total secured borrowings and consolidated VIEs
 $  19,878
     14,864
     (11,020)
    (68)
    3,776
                                (1)
 ﬁTotal VIE assetsﬂ has been revised to 
correct previously reported amount.
 (2)
 ﬁThird party liabilitiesﬂ has been revised to correct previously reported amounts.
 In addition to the transactions included in the table above, at 
December 31, 2010
, we had issued approximately $6.0 billion of 
private placement debt financing through a consolidated VIE. 

The issuance is classified as long
-term debt in our consolidated 
financial statements. At 
December 31, 2010
, we had pledged 
approximately $
6.0
 billion i
n loans, $
478
 million in securities 
available for sale and $
180
 million in cash and cash equivalents 
to collateralize the VIE™s borrowings. Such assets were not 

transferred to the VIE and accordingly we have excluded the VIE 

from the previous table.
  We ha
ve raised financing through the securitization of certain 
financial assets in transactions with VIEs accounted for as 

secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are the 
primary beneficiary. In certain transactions other than the 

multi
-seller com
mercial paper conduit, we provide contractual 
support in the form of limited recourse and liquidity to facilitate 

the remarketing of short
-term securities issued to third party 
investors. Other than this limited contractual support, the assets 

of the VIEs are the sole source of repayment of the securities 

held by third parties. The liquidity support we provide to the 

multi
-seller commercial paper conduit ensures timely repayment 
of commercial paper issued by the conduit and is described 

further 
below
.   154    NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN 
SECURITIZATIONS
  We have consolidated certain of our 
nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations in 
accordance with consolidation accounting guidance. We have 

determined we are the primary beneficiary of th
ese 
securitizations because we have the power to direct the most 

significant activities of the entity through our role as primary 

servicer and also hold variable interests that we have determined 

to be significant. The nature of our variable interests in t
hese 
entities may include beneficial interests issued by the VIE, 

mortgage servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve 

liabilities. 
  MULTI
-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT
  We administer 
a multi
-seller asset
-based commercial paper conduit that 
fina
nces certain client transactions. This conduit is a bankruptcy 
remote entity that makes loans to, or purchases certificated 

interests, generally from SPEs, established by our clients 

(sellers) and which are secured by pools of financial assets. The 

conduit
 funds itself through the issuance of highly rated 
commercial paper to third party investors. The primary source of 

repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flows from the 

conduit™s assets or the re
-issuance of commercial paper upon 
maturity. The cond
uit™s assets are structured with deal
-specific 
credit enhancements generally in the form of 

overcollateralization provided by the seller, but may also include
  subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, third party credit 
support facilities and excess
 spread capture. The timely 
repayment of the commercial paper is further supported by 

asset
-specific liquidity facilities in the form of liquidity asset 
purchase agreements that we provide. Each facility is equal to 

102% of the conduit™s funding commitment
 to a client. The 
aggregate amount of liquidity must be equal to or greater than 

all the commercial paper issued by the conduit. At the discretion 

of the administrator, we may be required to purchase assets 

from the conduit at par value plus accrued intere
st or discount 

on the related commercial paper, including situations where the 

conduit is unable to issue commercial paper. Par value may be 

different from fair value. 
 We receive fees in connection with our role as administrator 
and liquidity provider. We
 may also receive fees related to the 
structuring of the conduit™s transactions. In 2010, the conduit 

terminated its subordinated note to a third party investor and 

repaid all amounts due under the terms of the note agreement. 

We incurred a loss on the ter
mination of the subordinated note 
of $16 million. We are the primary beneficiary of the conduit 

because we have power over the significant activities of the 

conduit and have a significant variable interest due to our 

liquidity arrangement.
 155    Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community 
Banking and Wholesale Banking operating segments, consist of 

residential and commercial mortgage originations and servicing. 
 Note 9:  Mortga
ge Banking Activities
   We apply the amortization method to all commercial
 and 
some residential MSRs and apply the fair value method to only 

residential MSRs. The changes in MSRs measured using the fair 

value method were:
                                Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
      2010
   2009   2008  Fair value
, beginning of year
 $  16,004
   14,714
   16,763
    Adjustments from adoption of consolidation accounting guidance
    (118)
  -   -    Purchases
    -   -   191    Acquired from Wachovia (1)
    -   34   479    Servicing from securitizations or asset trans
fers
    4,092
   6,226
   3,450
    Sales
      -   -   (269)
     Net additions
    3,974
   6,260
   3,851
    Changes in fair value:
             Due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions (2)
    (2,957)
  (1,534)
  (3,341)
     Other changes in fa
ir value (3)
    (2,554)
  (3,436)
  (2,559)
       Total changes in fair value
    (5,511)
  (4,970)
  (5,900)
 Fair value, end of year
 $  14,467
   16,004
   14,714
                    (1)
 The 2009 amount reflects refinements to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia 
purchase accounting adjustments.
 (2)
 Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to changes in interest rates
, and costs to service, including delinquency and 
foreclosure costs.
 (3)
 Represents changes due to collecti
on/realization of expected cash flows over time.
  The changes in amortized MSRs were:
                            Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Balance, beginning of year
 $  1,119
   1,446
   466    Adjustments from adoption
 of consolidation accounting guidance
    (5)
  -   -    Purchases
    58   11   10    Acquired from Wachovia (1)
    -   (135)
  1,021
    Servicing from securitizations or asset transfers 
    478   61   24    Amortization
    (228)
  (264)
  (75)
 Balance, en
d of year (2)
    1,422
   1,119
   1,446
  Valuation allowance:
         Balance, beginning of year
    -   -   -    Provision for MSRs in excess of fair value
    (3)
  -   -  Balance, end of year (3)
    (3)
  -   -  Amortized MSRs, net
 $  1,419
   1,119
   1,446  Fair value of amortized MSRs:
           Beginning of year
 $  1,261
   1,555
   573    End of year (4)
    1,812
   1,261
   1,555
                                  (1)
 The 2009 amount reflects refinements to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia purchase ac
counting adjustments.
 (2)
 Includes $400 million in residential amortized MSRs at December 31, 2010. The 2009 and 2008 balances are commercial amortized
 MSRs. 
For the year ended 
December
 31, 2010, servicing from securitizations or asset transfers on the residen
tial MSR portfolio was $405 million and the res
idential MSR amortization was $(
5) million.
 (3)
 Commercial a
mortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following 
risk strata: agency 
(GSEs) 
and non
-agency.
 There was no valuation allowance recorded
 for the periods presented on the commercial amortized MSRs. Residential amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes 
by the following risk strata: Mortgages 
sold to GSEs (FHLMC and FNMA) and mortgages sold to GNMA, each by interest rate stratifica
tions. A valuation allowance of $3 million was recorded on the residential 
amortized MSRs for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 (4)
 Includes fair value of $441 million in residential amortized MSRs and $1,371 million in commercial amortized MSRs at December
 31, 2010.
 156     We present the components of our managed servicing 
portfolio in the following table at unpaid principal balance for 
loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for 
owned loans serviced.
                                  December 
31, (in billions)
      2010
     2009   2008  Residential mortgage servicing:
             Serviced for others
 $  1,429
     1,422
   1,388
    Owned loans serviced
    371     364   378    Subservicing
    9     10   15      Total residential servicing
    1,809
     1,796
   1,781
  Commercial mortgage servicing:
             Serviced for others
    408     454   472    Owned loans serviced
    99     105   103    Subservicing
    13     10   11      Total commercial servicing
    520     569   586        Tot
al managed servicing portfolio
 $  2,329
     2,365
   2,367
  Total serviced for others
 $  1,837
     1,876
   1,860
  Ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others
    0.86
  %  0.91
   0.87
                       The components of mortgage banking noninte
rest income were:
                                        Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Servicing income, net:
           Servicing fees (1)(2)
 $  4,597
   4,176
   4,109
    Changes in fair value of MSRs carried at fair valu
e:
             Due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions (3)
    (2,957)
  (1,534)
  (3,341)
     Other changes in fair value (4)
    (2,554)
  (3,436)
  (2,559)
       Total changes in fair value of MSRs carried at fair value
    (5,511)
  (4,970)
  (5,900)
   Amortization, net of impairment
    (228)
  (264)
  (75)
   Provision for MSRs in excess of fair value
    (3)
  -   -    Net derivative gains from economic hedges (5)
    4,485
   6,849
   3,099
          Total servicing income, net
    3,340
   5,791
   1,233
  Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities (2)
    6,397
   6,237
   1,292
            Total mortgage banking noninterest income
 $  9,737
   12,028
   2,525
  Market
-related valuation changes to MSRs, net of hedge results (3) + (5)
 $  1,5
28   5,315
   (242)
                                             (1)
 Amounts are presented net of certain unreimbursed direct servicing obligations primarily associated with workout activities.
 (2)
 2009 and 2008 amounts have been revised to conform with current p
eriod presentation.
 (3)
 Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to changes in interest rates
 and costs to service, including delinquency and 
foreclosure costs
. (4)
 Represents changes due to collection/realization
 of expected cash flows over time.
 (5)
 Represents results from free
-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 15 
Œ Free
-Standing Derivatives for 
additional discussion and detail.
 157 Note 9:  Mortgage Banking Activities 
(continued)
     In addition, ser
vicing fees in the 
previous 
table included:
                        Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Contractually specified
           servicing fees
 $  4,566
   4,473
   3,904
  Late charges
    360   330   283  Ancillary fees
    434   287   148                               The table below summarizes the changes in our liability for 
mortgage loan repurchase losses.
 This liability is in ﬁAccrued 
expenses and other liabilitiesﬂ in our consolidated financial 
statements and the
 provision for repurchase losses reduces net 
gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities.
                                 Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009   2008  Balance, beginning of year
 $  1,033
   589   253    Wachovia a
cquisition (1)
    -   31   187    Provision for repurchase losses:
             Loan sales
    144   302   165      Change in estimate 
Œ primarily
               due to credit deterioration
    1,474
   625   234        Total additions
    1,618
   958   586    Losses
    (1,362)
  (514)
  (250)
 Balance, end of year
 $  1,289
   1,033
   589                    (1)
 The 2009 amount 
is refinement
 to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia 
purchase accounting adjustments.
 158     The 
gross carrying va
lue of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was
: Note 10:  Intangible Assets
                                             December 31,
             2010
   2009             Gross
     Net
   Gross
     Net
             carrying
 Accumulated
 carrying 
   carrying
 Accumulated
 carr
ying
 (in millions)
   value
 amortization
 value
   value
 amortization
 value
 Amortized intangible assets:
                       MSRs (1)
 $  2,131
     (712)
  1,419
     1,606
     (487)
  1,119
    Core deposit intangibles
    15,133
     (6,229)
  8,904
     15,14
0     (4,366)
  10,774
    Customer relationship and other intangibles
    3,077
     (1,230)
  1,847
     3,050
     (896)
  2,154
        Total amortized intangible assets
 $  20,341
     (8,171)
  12,170
     19,796
     (5,749)
  14,047
  MSRs (carried at fair valu
e) (1)
 $  14,467
       14,467
     16,004
       16,004
  Goodwill
    24,770
       24,770
     24,812
       24,812
  Trademark
    14       14     14       14                                                              (1)
 See Note 9 for additional informa
tion on MSRs.
 We based our projections of amortization expense shown below on existing asset balances at December 31, 2010. Future amortiza
tion 
expense may vary from these projections.
  The 
following table provides the current year and estimated future amo
rtization expense for amortized intangible assets.
                              Customer
             Core
 relationship
         Amortized
   deposit
 and other
     (in millions)
   MSRs
 intangibles
 intangibles 
   Total
 Year ended December 31, 2010 (actual
) $  228     1,872
     334     2,434
  Estimate for year ended December 31,
                 2011 $  247     1,593
     286     2,126
  2012    222     1,396
     269     1,887
  2013    189     1,241
     249     1,679
  2014    161     1,113
     234     1,5
08  2015    139     1,022
     212     1,373
                    159  Note 10:  Intangible Assets 
(continued)
     For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all of the 
goodwill to the individual operating segments. We identify 
reporting units that are one level below an operating segment 

(refer
red to as a component), and distinguish these reporting 
units based on how the segments and components are managed, 

taking into consideration the economic characteristics, nature of 

the products and customers of the components. We allocate 

goodwill to repo
rting units based on relative fair value, using 

certain performance metrics. See Note 23 for further 

information on management reporting.
  The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to our 
operating segments for purposes of goodwill impairment te
sting. 
In fourth quarter 2010, we realigned certain lending businesses 

into Wholesale Banking from Community Banking to reflect our 

previously announced restructuring of Wells Fargo Financial. 

Prior periods have been revised to reflect these changes. The 

reduction in 2010 was 
predominately due to reversals of excess 
exit reserves 
as 
discussed in Note 2
.                                                              Wealth,
             Community
   Wholesale
 Brokerage and
 Consolidated
 (in millions)
   Banki
ng   Banking
   Retirement
   Company
 December 31, 2008
 $  16,638
     5,621
     368     22,627
    Goodwill from business combinations
    1,329
     844     5     2,178
    Foreign currency translation adjustments
    7     -     -     7  December 31, 2009
    17,974
     6,465
     373     24,812
    Goodwill from business combinations, net
    (52)
    10     -     (42)
 December 31, 2010
 $  17,922
     6,475
     373     24,770
    160     Time certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits 
issued 
by domestic offices totaled $90.6
 billion and $117.0
 billion at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Substantially all of 

these deposits were interest bearing. The contractual maturities 

of these deposits follow.
 Note 11:  Deposits
                   (in millions)
 December 31, 2010
 2011   $  43,612
  2012      15,624
  2013      17,977
  2014      3,831
  2015      7,024
  Thereafter
      2,500
    Total
   $  90,568
   Of these deposits, the amount of time deposits with a 
denomination of $100,000 or more was $33.
9 billion and 
$43.7
 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The 
contractual maturities of these deposits follow.
                  (in millions)
 December 31, 2010
 Three months or less
 $  5,320
  After three months through six months
    1,358
  After six months through twelve months
    8,086
  After twelve months
    19,097
    Total
 $  33,861
    Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign offices 
with a denomination of $100,000 or more were $16.7
 billion and 
$20.4
 billion at December 31
, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
  Demand deposit overdrafts of $557.0
 million and 
$667.0
 million were included as loan balances at 
December
 31,
 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 161      The table below shows selected information for sho
rt
-term 
borrowings, which generally mature in less than 30 days.
 Note 12:  Short
-Term Borrowings
                                                 2010
      2009      2008    (in millions)
   Amount
 Rate
     Amount
 Rate
     Amount
 Rate
   As of December 31,
                         Commer
cial paper and other short
-term borrowings
 $  17,454
   0.26
  % $  12,950
   0.39
  % $  45,871
   0.93
  % Federal funds purchased and securities sold
                           under agreements to repurchase
    37,947
   0.15
       26,016
   0.08
       62,203
   1.12
      Total
   $  55,401
   0.19
    $  38,966
   0.18
    $  108,074
   1.04
    Year ended December 31,
                         Average daily balance
                         Commercial paper and other short
-term borrowings
 $  16,330
   0.31
    $  27,79
3   0.43
    $  43,792
   2.43
    Federal funds purchased and securities sold
                           under agreements to repurchase
    30,494
   0.18
       24,179
   0.46
       22,034
   1.88
      Total
   $  46,824
   0.22
    $  51,972
   0.44
    $  65,826
   2.25
    Maximum month
-end balance
                         Commercial paper and other short
-term borrowings (1)
 $  17,646
  N/A
   $  62,871
  N/A
   $  76,009
  N/A
   Federal funds purchased and securities sold
                           under agreements t
o repurchase (2)
    37,947
  N/A
      30,608
  N/A
      62,203
  N/A
                                                                       N/A
- Not Applicable
 (1)
 Highest month
-end balance in each of the last three years was March 2010, February 2009 and Augus
t 2008.
 (2)
 Highest month
-end balance in each of the last three years was December 2010, February 2009 and December 2008.
    We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to 
collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities 
financings. The types 
of collateral we pledge include securities 

issued by federal agencies, GSEs, and domestic and foreign 

companies. We pledg
ed $27.3
 billion 
and $14.8
 billion at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively
, under agreements 
that permit the secured parties to sel
l or repledge the collateral. 
Pledged collateral where the secured party cannot sell or 

repledg
e was $5.9
 billion 
and $434
 million at December
 31,
 2010 
and 2009, respectively
. 162     As a part of our overall interest rate risk manageme
nt strategy, 
we often use derivatives to manage interest rate risk. As a result, 

much of the long
-term debt presented below is hedged in a fair 
value or cash flow hedge relationship. See Note 15 for further 

information on qualifying hedge contracts.
 Note 13:  Long
-Term Debt
  Follo
wing is a summary of our long
-term debt based on 
original maturity (reflecting unamortized debt discounts and 

premiums, and purchase accounting adjustments for debt 

assumed in the Wachovia acquisition, where applicable):
                                              December 31,
                      2010
     2009  (1)
             Maturity
 Stated
           (in millions)
   date(s)
 interest rate(s)
           Wells Fargo & Company (Parent only)
               Senior
               Fixed
-rate notes (2)
 2011-2035 2.125
-6.75%
 $  40,630
     46,266
    Floating
-rate notes (2)
 2011-2048 Varies
    26,750
     41,231
    Market
-linked notes (3)
 2011-2018 Varies
    545     458      Total senior debt 
- Parent
        67,925
     87,955
    Subordinated
               Fixed
-rate notes  
 2011-2035 4.375
-7.574%
    12,370
     12,148
    Floating
-rate notes 
 2015-2016 Varies
    1,118
     1,096
      Total subordinated debt 
- Parent
        13,488
     13,244
    Junior subordinated
               Fixed
-rate notes 
- hybrid trus
t securities
 2026-2068 5.625
-10.18%
    11,257
     11,086
    Floating
-rate notes
 2027-2036 Varies
    289     282    FixFloat notes 
- income trust securities (4) 
 2042-2044 5.20
-9.75% to 2011
-2013, 
varies
    6,786
     6,786
      Total junior subordinated 
debt 
- Parent (5)
        18,332
     18,154
        Total long
-term debt 
- Parent
        99,745
     119,353
    Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and other bank entities (Bank)
               Senior
               Fixed
-rate notes 
 2011-2013 3.37
-6.00%
    2,185
     2,609    Floating
-rate notes 
 2011-2040 Varies
    4,186
     8,323
    Fixed
-rate advances 
- Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB)
 2011-2031 1.60
-8.45%
    812     2,665
    Floating
-rate advances 
- FHLB
 2011-2013 Varies
    7,103
     31,146
    Market
-linked notes (3
) 2011-2016 Varies
    229     515    Capital leases (Note 7)
 2011-2024 Varies
    26     77      Total senior debt 
- Bank
        14,541
     45,335
    Subordinated
               Fixed
-rate notes
 2011-2038 4.75
-7.74%
    16,520
     18,220
    Floating
-rate
 notes
 2014-2017 Varies
    1,945
     1,937
      Total subordinated debt 
- Bank
        18,465
     20,157
    Junior subordinated
               Fixed
-rate notes
 2026 8.00%
    317     318    Floating
-rate notes
 2027 Varies
    278     270      Total junior
 subordinated debt 
- Bank (5)
        595     588    Long
-term debt issued by VIE 
- Fixed rate
 2012-2049 0.05
-7.50%
    3,751
     105    Long
-term debt issued by VIE 
- Floating rate
 2012-2042 Varies
    4,053
     70    Mortgage notes and other debt
 2011-2038 Varies
    8,639
     8,216
        Total long
-term debt 
- Bank
        50,044
     74,471
                              (continued on following page)
               163 Note 13:  Long
-Term Debt 
(continued)
     (continued from previous page)
                                                                                     December 31,
                      2010
     2009  (1)
             Maturity
 Stated
           (in millions)
   date(s)
 interest rate(s)
           Other consolidated subsidiaries
               Senior
               Fixed
-rate 
notes
 2011-2015 3.97
-6.125%
    6,147
     6,682
    Floating
-rate notes 
- FHLB 
        -     1,625
    FixFloat notes
 2020 6.795% through 2015, varies
    20     -      Total senior debt 
- Other consolidated subsidiaries
        6,167
     8,307
    Junior su
bordinated
               Fixed
-rate notes
 2011 5.50%
    10     63    Floating
-rate notes
 2027-2036 Varies
    239     241    FixFloat notes
 2036 7.064% through 2011, varies
    78     79      Total junior subordinated debt 
- Other 
                   consolidated subsidiaries (5)
        327     383    Long
-term debt issued by VIE 
- Fixed rate
 2012-2020 5.16
-5.98%
    84     978    Long
-term debt issued by VIE 
- Floating rate
 2015-2021 Varies
    489     10    Mortgage notes and other debt of subsidiaries
 2013-2018 Varies
    127     359        Total long
-term debt 
- Other consolidated subsidiaries
        7,194
     10,037
            Total long
-term debt
     $  156,983
     203,861
                              (1)
 Balances have been revised to conform with cu
rrent period presentation.
 (2)
 On December 10, 2008, Wells Fargo issued $3 billion of 3% fixed senior unsecured notes and $3 billion of floating senior unse
cured notes both maturing on 
December
 9, 2011.
 On March 30, 2009, Wells Fargo issued $1.75 billion of 2.
125% fixed senior unsecured notes and $1.75 billion of floating senior unsecured notes both 
maturing on June 15, 2012.
 These notes are guaranteed under the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation™s (
FDIC
) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 
(TGLP) 
and are 
backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
 (3)
 Consists of long
-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity, commodity, or currency index, or basket of indi
ces accounted for separately 
from the note as a free
-sta
nding derivative.
 For information on embedded derivatives, see Note 15 
Œ Free
-standing derivatives.
 (4)
 We expect to issue preferred stock to the unconsolidated wholly
-owned trusts that hold the income trust securities. The preferred stock issuance is continge
nt on the ability 
to raise sufficient proceeds through the sale of the income trust securities to third party investors. See Note 8 for our add
itional information on our trust preferred security 
structures and Note 17 for the preferred stock we expect to i
ssue.
 (5)
 Represents junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly
 owned trusts formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities.
 See Note 8 for 
additional information on our trust preferred security structures.
 164     We participate
d in the FDIC™s Temporary Liquidity 
Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP had two components: the 
Debt Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary 

guarantee of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by 

eligible entities; and the Transaction Account Guara
ntee 
Program, which provided a temporary unlimited guarantee of 

funds in noninterest
-bearing transaction accounts at FDIC
-insured institutions. 
We opted out of the TLGP effective 

January
 1, 2010
.  The aggregate annual maturities of long
-term debt 
obligatio
ns (based
 on final maturity dates) as of 
December
 31,
 2010, follow.
              (in millions)
   Parent
 Company
 2011 $  21,771
   36,223
  2012    15,696
   19,779
  2013    10,088
   15,750
  2014    7,739
   11,032
  2015    3,584
   8,553
  Thereafter
    40,867
   65,646
    Total
 $  99,745
   156,983
   The interest rates on floating
-rate notes are determined 
periodically by formulas based on certain money market rates, 

subject, on certain notes, to minimum or maximum interest 

rates.
  As part of our long
-term and short
-term borrowing 
arrangements, we are subject to various financial and 

operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which 

debt has been issued have provisions that may limit the merger 

or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance 
of capital
 stock or convertible securities by certain subsidiary banks. At 

December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all the 

covenants.
 165     Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make 
payments to 
a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in 

an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are 

generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities 

lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements, 
written put options, 
recourse obligations, residual value 

guarantees, and contingent consideration. The following table 

shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our 

guarantees and the amount with a higher risk of performance.
 Note 14:  Guarantees and Legal Actions
                                     Decem
ber 31,
            2010
     2009              Maximum
 Non
-     Maximum
 Non
-           Carrying
 exposure
 investment
   Carrying
 exposure
 investment
 (in millions)
   value
 to loss
 grade
   value
 to loss
 grade
 Standby letters of credit
 $  142   42,159
   19,596
     148   49,997
   21,112
  Securities lending and other indemnifications
    45   13,645
   3,993
     51   20,002
   2,512
  Liquidity agreements (1)
    -   49   1     66   7,744
   -  Written put options (1)(2)
    747   8,134
   2,615
     803   8,392
   3,674
  Loans and MHFS sold with recourse
    119   5,474
   3,564
     96   5,049
   2,400
  Residual value guarantees
    8   197   -     8   197   -  Contingent consideration
    23   118   116     11   145   102  Other guarantees
    -   73   -     -   55   2    Total guarantees
 $  1,084
   69,849
   29,885
     1,183
   91,581
   29,802
                          (1)
 Certain of these agreements included in this table are related to off
-balance sheet entities and, accordingly, are also di
sclosed in Note 8
. (2)
 Written pu
t options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative disclosures in Note 
15.  ﬁMaximum exposure to lossﬂ and ﬁNon
-investment gradeﬂ are 
required disclosures under GAAP. Non
-investment grade 
represents those guarantees on wh
ich we have a higher risk of 
being required to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If 

the underlying ass
ets under the guarantee are non
-investment 
grade (that is, an external rating that is below investment grade 

or an internal credit default grade t
hat is equivalent to a below 
investment grade external rating), we consider the risk of 

performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are 

determined based upon the same credit policies that we use to 

evaluate the risk of payment or performance whe
n making loans 
and other extensions of credit. These credit policies are more 

fully described in Note 
6.  Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that 
would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical circumstance, 

despite what we believe is i
ts extremely remote possibility, where 
the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines 

to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any 

economic hedges. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an 

indication of expect
ed loss. We believe the carrying value, which 
is either fair value or cost adjusted for incurred credit losses, is 

more representative of our exposure to loss than maximum 

exposure to loss. 
  STANDBY LETTERS OF C
REDIT
  We issue standby letters of 
credit, w
hich include performance and financial guarantees, for 

customers in connection with contracts between our customers 

and third parties. Standby letters of credit are agreements where 

we are obligated to make payment to a third party on behalf of a 

customer 
in the event the customer fails to meet their 

contractual obligations. We consider the credit risk in standby 

letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit in 

determining the allowance for credit losses. 
 SECURITIES LENDING A
ND OTHER INDEM
NIFICATIONS
  As a 
securities lending agent, we lend securities from participating 

institutional clients
™ portfolios to third
-party borrowers. We 
indemnify our clients against default by the borrower in 

returning these lent securities. This indemnity is sup
ported by 
collateral received from the borrowers. Collateral is generally in 

the form of cash or highly liquid securities that are marked to 

market daily. There was $14.0 billion at December 31, 2010, and 

$20.7
 billion at December 31, 2009, in collateral s
upporting 
loaned securities with values of $13.6 billion and $ 20.0 billion, 

respectively.
  We enter into other types of indemnification agreements in 
the ordinary course of business under which we agree to 

indemnify third parties against any damages, loss
es and 
expenses incurred in connection with legal and other 

proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us. 

These relationships or transactions include those arising from 

service as a director or officer of the Company, underwriting 

agreeme
nts relating to our securities, acquisition agreements 

and various other business transactions or arrangements.
 Because the extent of our obligations under these agreements 

depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, our 

potential future liabili
ty under these agreements we are unable 
to determine
. We do, however, record a liability for residential 
mortgage loans that we may have to repurchase pursuant to 

various representations and warranties. See Note 1 and Note 8 

for additional information on t
he liability for mortgage loan 
repurchase losses.
     166    LIQUIDITY AGREEMENTS
  We provide liquidity facilities on all 
commercial paper issued by the conduit we administer. We also 
provide liquidity to certain off
-balance sheet entities that hold 
securitized f
ixed
-rate municipal bonds and consumer or 
commercial assets that are partially funded with the issuance of 

money market and other short
-term notes. The decrease in 
maximum exposure to loss from December 31, 2009, is due to 

the amounts related to the liquid
ity facility on the commercial 
paper conduit being removed from the disclosed amounts due to 

the consolidation of the commercial paper conduit upon 

adoption of consolidation accounting guidance. See Note 
8 for additional information on these arrangements.
  WRITTEN PUT OPTIONS
  Written put options are contracts that 
give the counterparty the right to sell to us an underlying 

instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and 

include options, floors, caps and credit default swaps. These 

written put
 option contracts generally permit net settlement. 
While these derivative transactions expose us to risk in the event 

the option is exercised, we manage this risk by entering into 

offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying 

instrument.
 We offset substantially all put options written to 
customers with purchased options. Additionally, for certain of 

these contracts, we require the counterparty to pledge the 

underlying instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our 

ultimate obligation u
nder written put options is based on future 
market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. See 

Note 
8 for additional information regarding transactions with 
VIEs and Note 
15 for additional information regarding written 
derivative contracts. 
  LOANS AND MHFS SOLD 
WITH RECOURSE
  In certain loan sales 
or securitizations, we provide recourse to the buyer whereby we 

are required to repurchase loans at par value plus accrued 

interest on the occurrence of certain credit
-related events within 
a certain p
eriod of time. The maximum exposure to loss 
represents the outstanding principal 
balance of the loans sold or 

securitized that are subject to recourse provisions or the 

maximum losses per the contractual agreements, but
 the 
likelihood of the repurchase of the entire balance is remote and 

amounts paid can be recovered in whole or in part from the sale 

of collateral. In
 2010, we did not repurchase a significant 
amount of loans associated with these agreements.
 We do not 
consider loans sold with representation
 and warranty 
requirements, for which we have established a repurchase 

liability, to be loans sold with recourse.
  RESIDUAL VALUE GUARA
NTEES
  We have provided residual 
value guarantees as part of certain leasing transactions of 

corporate assets. At December 31, 2010, the only remaining 

residual value guarantee is related to a leasing transaction on 

certain corporate buildings. The lessors in these leases are 

generally large financial institutions or their leasing subsidiaries. 

These guarantees protect the l
essor from loss on sale of the 
related asset at the end of the lease term. To the extent that a 

sale of the leased assets results in proceeds less than a stated 

percent (generally 80% to 89%) of the asset™s cost, we would be 

required to reimburse the lesso
r under our guarantee.
 CONTINGENT CONSIDERA
TION
  In connection with certain 
brokerage, asset management, insurance agency and other 

acquisitions we have made, the terms of the acquisition 

agreements provide for deferred payments or additional 

consideratio
n, based on certain performance targets. 
  We have entered into various contingent performance 
guarantees through credit risk participation arrangements. 

Under these agreements, if a customer defaults on its obligation 

to perform under certain credit agree
ments with third parties, 

we will be required to make payments to the third parties.
  Legal Actions
 Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a 

number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings 

concerning matters arising from the
 conduct of our business 
activities. These proceedings include actions brought against 

Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect to corporate 

related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or 

our subsidiaries were involved. In addition, W
ells Fargo and our 

subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or 

otherwise cooperate with government authorities in the conduct 

of investigations of other persons or industry groups. 
  Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate 
outcome
, Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries have generally 
denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny, 

liability in all significant litigation pending against us, including 

the matters described below, and we intend to defend 

vigorously each 
case, other than matters we describe as having 

settled. Reserves are established for legal claims when 

payments associated with the claims become probable and the 

costs can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving 

legal claims may be substant
ially higher or lower than the 
amounts reserved for those claims.
  ADELPHIA LITIGATION
  Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia 
Capital Markets, LLC, along with numerous other financial 

institutions were defendants in a case pending in the United 

States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York 

related to the bankruptcy of Adelphia Communications 

Corporation (Adelphia). The plaintiff was the Adelphia 

Recovery Trust. The complaint asserted claims against the 

defendants under state law, bankruptcy law and
 the Bank 
Holding Company Act and sought equitable relief and an 

unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages. 
On 

September 21, 2010, an agreement was reached between the 

Adelphia Resolution Trust and all of the defendant banks to 

settle the cla
ims against the banks for the total amount of 
$175
 million
. Wachovia™s share was a fraction of that amount 
and was not material to Wells Fargo. The settlement has been 

approved by the Court and the case is concluded.
  167 Note 14:
  Guarantees and Legal Actions 
(continued)
    ELAVON
 LITIGATION
  On 
January 16, 200
9, Elavon, Inc., a 
provider of merchant processing services, filed a complaint in 
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia 

against Wachovia Corporation, Wachovia Bank, N.A., 
Wells 
Fargo & Company, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The complain
t seeks equitable relief, including specific 
performance, and 
damages for Wachovia Bank™s allegedly wrongful termination of 

its merchant referral contract with Elavon. Discovery has been 

completed and both parties have moved for summary judgment 

on various
 claims or defenses.
  ERISA LITIGATION
  A purported class action, captioned 
In re 
Wachovia Corporation ERISA Litigation
, was pending against 
Wachovia Corporation, its board of directors and certain senior 

officers, in the U.S. District Court for the Wester
n District of 
North Carolina. The case was filed on behalf of employees of 

Wachovia Corporation and its affiliates who held shares 
of 
Wachovia Corporation common stock in their Wachovia Savings 

Plan accounts. 
On August 6, 2010, an order was entered by the 
Court dismissing, with prejudice, the plaintiffs™ complaint. The 

dismissal was appealed. On December 8, 2010, an agreement in 

principle was reached to settle the case for $12.35 million. The 

settlement is subject to Court approval. A hearing on approval of
 the settlement has not yet been scheduled.
  On April 6, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the District of 
Minnesota certified a class of participants in Wells Fargo™s 

401(k) Plan in a case captioned 
Figas v. Wells Fargo & 

Company, et al.
 Figas purports to
 bring claims on behalf of 
participants who had assets in certain Wells Fargo affiliated 

funds from November 2, 2001, to September 22, 2009, alleging 

breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the offer of Wells 

Fargo affiliated funds as investment choice
s in the Plan. On 
October 18, 2010, an agreement in principle was reached to 

settle the 
Figas v. Wells Fargo & Company, et al. 
case. The 

agreement is subject to approval by the Court and an 

independent fiduciary.
  ILLINOIS ATTORNEY GE
NERAL
 LITIGATION
  On J
uly
 31, 2009, 
the Attorney General for the State of Illinois filed a civil lawsuit 

against Wells Fargo & Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and 

Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. in the Circuit Court for Cook 

County, Illinois. The Illinois Attorney General 
alleges that the 

Wells Fargo defendants engaged in illegal discrimination by 

ﬁreverse redliningﬂ and by steering African
-American and Latino 
customers into high cost, subprime mortgage loans while other 

borrowers with similar incomes received lower cost mo
rtgages. 
Illinois also alleges that Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. 

misled Illinois customers about the terms of mortgage loans. 

Illinois™ complaint against all Wells Fargo defendants is based on 

alleged violation of the Illinois Human Rights Act and 
the 

Illinois Fairness in Lending Act. The complaint also alleges that 

Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. violated the Illinois 

Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act and the 

Illinois Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act. Illinois™ 

complaint
 seeks an injunction against the defendants™ alleged 
violation of these Illinois statutes, restitution to consumers and 

civil money penalties. On October
 9, 2009, the Company filed a 
motion to dismiss Illinois™ complaint, and is awaiting the Court™s 

ruling
.  IN RE WELLS FARGO MO
RTGAGE
-BACKED CERTIFICATES 
LITIGATION
  This lawsuit is comprised of several securities law 
based putative class actions, consolidated in the U.S. District 

Court for the Northern District of California on July 16, 2009. 

The case is br
ought against several Wells Fargo mortgage
-backed securities trusts, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and other 

affiliated entities, individual employee defendants, along with 

various underwriters and rating agencies. The plaintiffs allege 

that the offering document
s contain untrue statements of 
material fact, or omit to state material facts necessary to make 

the registration statements and accompanying prospectuses not 

misleading. The allegations are regarding the underwriting 

standards used in connection with the o
rigination of the 
underlying mortgages, the maximum loan
-to-value ratios used to 
qualify borrowers, and the appraisals of the properties 

underlying the mortgages. Motions to dismiss, filed on behalf of 

all defendants, were granted in part and denied in par
t by a court 
order entered on April 22, 2010. The plaintiffs were granted 

leave to amend some of their claims. On May 28, 2010, plaintiffs 

filed an amended consolidated complaint. On June 25, 2010, 

Wells Fargo moved to dismiss the amended complaint. On 

Oct
ober 5, 2010, Wells Fargo™s motion to dismiss the amended 
complaint was granted in part and denied in part.
  On June 29, 2010 and on July 15, 2010, two complaints, the 
first captioned 
The Charles Schwab Corporation vs. Merrill 
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
, Inc., et al., 
and the second 
captioned 
The Charles Schwab Corporation v. BNP Paribas 

Securities Corp., et al.,
 were filed in the Superior Court for the 
State of California, San Francisco County against a number of 

defendants, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo 

Asset Securities Corporation. As against the Wells Fargo entities, 

the new cases assert opt out claims relating to the claims alleged 

in the Mortgage
-Backed Certificates Litigation.
  On October 15, 2010, three actions, captioned 
Federa
l Home 
Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of America Funding 

Corporation, et al.
 (filed in the Cook County Circuit Court, State 
of Illinois); 
Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of 

America Securities LLC, et al.
 (filed in the Superior Court of the 
State of
 California for the County of Los Angeles); and 
Federal 
Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis v. Banc of America Mortgage 

America Securities, Inc., et al.
 (filed in the Superior Court of the 
State of Indiana for the County of Marion), named multiple 

defendants, d
escribed as issuers/depositors, and 
underwriters/dealers of private label mortgage
-backed 

securities, in an action asserting claims that defendants used 

false and misleading statements in offering documents for the 

sale of such securities. The Bank of Chic
ago asserts that it 
purchased approximately $4.2 billion and the Bank of 

Indianapolis asserts that it purchased nearly $3 billion of such 

securities from the defendants. Plaintiffs seek rescission of the 

sales and damages under state securities and other l
aws and 
Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933. Wells Fargo Asset 

Securities Corporation, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo 

& Company were named among the defendants.
  168    INTERCHANGE LITIGATION
  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., 
Wells 
Fargo 
& Company, Wachovia B
ank, N.A. and Wachovia 
Corporation are named as defendants, separately or in 
combination, in putative class actions filed on behalf of a 

plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by 

individual merchants with regard to the interchange f
ees 
associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card 

transactions. These actions have been consolidated in the 

United States District Court for the Eastern District of New 

York. Visa, MasterCard and several banks and bank holding 

companies are named as def
endants in various of these actions. 
The amended and consolidated complaint asserts claims against 

defendants based on alleged violations of federal and state 

antitrust laws and seeks damages, as well as injunctive relief. 

Plaintiff merchants allege that V
isa, MasterCard and payment 
card issuing banks unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. 

Plaintiffs also allege that enforcement of certain Visa and 

MasterCard rules and alleged tying and bundling of services 

offered to merchants are anticompetitive. W
ells Fargo and 

Wachovia, along with other defendants and entities, are parties 

to Loss and Judgment Sharing Agreements, which provide that 

they, along with other entities
, will share, based on a formula, in 
any losses from the Interchange Litigation.
  LE-NATURE™S, INC.
  Wachovia Bank, N.A. was the administrative 
agent on a $285 million credit facility extended to Le
-Nature™s, 
Inc. in September 2006, of which approximately $270 million 

was syndicated to other lenders by Wachovia Capital 
Markets, 

LLC. Le
-Natu
re™s was the subject of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
petition
, which was converted to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
petition in November 2006 in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the 

Western District of Pennsylvania. The filing was precipitated by 

an apparent fraud relati
ng to Le
-Nature™s financial condition. 
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and/or Wachovia Bank, N.A. 

are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits including the 

following: 
(1) a case filed in the New York State Supreme Court 
for the County of Manhattan by hed
ge
 fund purchasers of the 
bank debt seeking to recover from Wachovia o
n various theories 
of liability
 (On May 10, 2010, the Court granted Wachovia™s 
motion to dismiss two counts of the complaint and denied the 

motion to dismiss two other counts
); (2) a cas
e filed on 
April
 28,
 2008
, by holders of a Le
-Nature™s Senior Subordinated 
Notes offering underwritten by Wachovia Capital Markets in 

June 2003, alleging various fraud claims, pending in the 

Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los 

Angeles; and 
(3) an action filed on October 30, 2008
, on behalf 
of the liquidation trust created in Le
-Nature™s bankruptcy 
against a number of individuals and entities, including 

Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and Wachovia Bank, N.A., in 

the U.S. District Co
urt for the Western District of Pennsylvania, 
asserting a variety of claims on behalf of the bankruptcy estate. 

On September
 16, 2009, the Court dismissed a cause of action 
for breach of fiduciary duty but denied the remainder of 

Wachovia™s motion to dismi
ss. Discovery is underway in these 
matters.
  MERGER RELATED LITIGATION
  On October 4, 2008, 
Citigroup, Inc. purported to commence an action in the 

Supreme Court of the State of New York for the County of 

Manhattan, captioned 
Citigroup, Inc. v. Wachovia Co
rp., et al.
, 
naming as defendants Wachovia Corporation, Wells Fargo & 

Company, and the directors of both companies. The complaint 

alleged that Wachovia breached an exclusivity agreement with 

Citigroup, which by its terms was to expire on October 6, 2008, 

by entering into negotiations and an eventual acquisition 

agreement with Wells Fargo, and that Wells Fargo 
and the 
individual defendants had tortiously interfered with the same 

contract. On October 4, 2008, Wachovia filed a complaint in the 

U.S. District Co
urt for the Southern District of New York, 
captioned 
Wachovia Corp. v. Citigroup, Inc.
 The
 complaint 
sought declaratory and injunctive relief, stating that the Wells 

Fargo merger agreement is valid, proper, and not prohibited by 

the exclusivity agreement. 
On March
 20, 2009, the U.S. District 
Court for the Southern District of New York remanded the 

Citigroup, Inc. v. Wachovia Corp., et al. 
case to the Supreme 

Court of the State of New York for the County of Manhattan, but 

retained jurisdiction over the 
Wacho
via v. Citigroup
 case. These 
cases were settled by Wells Fargo™s payment of $100 million to 

Citigroup in November, 2010. On November 23, 2010, both 

cases were dismissed at the request of the parties.
  MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE DOCUMENT LITIGATION
  Seven
 purport
ed class actions and several individual borrower 
actions related to foreclosure document practices were filed in 

late 2010 and in early 2011 against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its 

status as mortgage servicer. The cases have been brought in state 

and federal
 courts.
 Of the individual borrower cases,
 the 
majority are filed in state courts in California and Ohio. Two 

other class actions were filed against Wells Fargo Bank, but 

Wells Fargo is named as a defendant as corporate trustee of the 

mortgage trust
 and no
t as a mortgage servicer.
 The actions 
generally claim that Wells Fargo submitted "fraudulent" or 

"untruthful" affidavits or other foreclosure documents to courts 

to support foreclosures filed in the state. Specifically, plaintiffs 

allege that Wells Fargo s
igners did not have personal knowledge 
of the facts alleged in the documents and did not verify the 

information in the documents ultimately filed with courts to 

foreclose. Plaintiffs attempt to state legal claims ranging from 

wrongful foreclosure to
 decept
ive practices to fraud and seek 
relief ranging from cancellation of notes and mortgages to 

money damages.
  On December 20, 2010, the New Jersey Supreme Court, the 
New Jersey Administrative Office of the Courts, and the Superior 

Court of New Jersey for Merc
er County jointly began an action 
against Wells Fargo and other large mortgage servicing 

companies in state court in New Jersey. This action seeks to 

enjoin pending foreclosures and sales and to require servicers to 

certify and prove compliance with new fo
reclosure procedures in 
New Jersey, or be held in contempt of court. Wells Fargo has 

filed its initial response to the
 New Jersey action.
  169 Note 14:
  Guarantees and Legal Actions 
(continued)
    MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS
  Several 
government agencies are conducting investigations or 
examination
s of various mortgage related practices of Wells 
Fargo Bank. The investigations relate to two main topics, (
1) whether Wells Fargo may have violated fair lending 
or other 
laws 
and regulations relating to 
mortgage origination practices
; and 
(2) whether Well
s Fargo™s practices and procedures relating to 
mortgage foreclosure affidavits and documents relating to the 

chain of title to notes and mortgage documents are adequate. 

With regard to the investigations into foreclosure practices, it is 

likely that one or
 more of the government agencies will initiate 
some type of enforcement action against Wells Fargo, 
which may 

include
 civil money penalties. Wells Fargo continues to provide 
information requested by the various agencies.
  MUNICIPAL DERIVATIVES BID PRACTICE
S INVESTIGATION
  The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC, beginning in 

November 2006, have been requesting information from 
a number of financial institutions, including Wachovia Bank, 

N.A.™s municipal derivatives group, generally with regard 
to 

compet
itive bid practices in the municipal derivative markets. In 
connection with these inquiries, Wachovia Bank has received 

subpoenas from both the DOJ and SEC as 
well as requests from 
other regulatory agencies and several states seeking documents 

and informat
ion. The DOJ and the SEC have advised Wachovia 
Bank that they believe certain of its employees engaged in 

improper conduct in conjunction with certain competitively bid 

transactions and, in November 2007, the DOJ notified two 

Wachovia Bank employees, both 
of whom have since been 

terminated, that they are regarded 
as targets of the DOJ™s 

investigation. Wachovia Bank has been cooperating fully with 

the government investigations.
  Wachovia Bank, along with a number of other banks and 
financial services compani
es, has also been named as a 
defendant in a number of substantially identical purported class 

actions filed in various state and federal courts by various 

municipalities alleging they have been damaged by the activity 

which is the subject of the government
 investigations. These 
cases are now consolidated under the caption 
In re Municipal 
Derivatives Antitrust Litigation
 in the U.S. District Court for 
the Southern District of New York. 
On April
 30, 2009, the Court 
granted a motion filed by Wachovia and certa
in other defendants 
to dismiss the Consolidated Class
 Action Complaint and 
dismissed all claims against Wachovia, with leave to replead. A 

Second Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed on 

June
 18,
 2009
, and a motion to dismiss that complaint was 
denied. 
A number of putative class and individual actions have 
also been brought in various courts, including complaints which 

were amended with new allegations and the addition of Wells 

Fargo & Co. as a defendant. These cases all have allegations 

substantially si
milar to those in the consolidated class 
complaint. All of the cases are being coordinated in the U.S. 

District Court for the Southern District of New York. 
  ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION
  A series of putative class 
actions have been filed against Wachovia
 Bank, N.A. and Wells 
Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other banks, challenging the 

high to low order in which the Banks post debit card transactions 

to consumer deposit accounts. There are currently 
12 such cases 
pending against Wells Fargo Bank (includi
ng the Wachovia Bank 
cases to which Wells Fargo succeeded), all but three of which 

have been consolidated in multi
-district litigation proceedings in 
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. On 

August 10, 2010, the U.S. District Court 
for the Northern District 

of California issued an order in 
Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo Bank, 

N.A.
, one of the three cases that were not consolidated in the 

multi
-district proceedings, enjoining the Bank™s use of the high 
to low posting method for debit card t
ransactions with respect to 
the plaintiff class of California depositors, directing that the 

Bank establish a different posting methodology and ordering 

remediation in the approximate amount of $203 million. On 

October 26, 2010, a final judgment was entere
d in Gutierrez. On 

October 28, 2010, Wells Fargo appealed to the U.S. Court of 

Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
  WACHOVIA EQUITY SECURITIES AND BONDS/NOTES 
LITIGATION
  A purported securities class action, 
Lipetz v. 
Wachovia Corporation, et al.
, was filed on 
July 7, 2008, in the 
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging 
violations of Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934. An amended complaint was filed on December 15, 2008. 

Among other allegations, plaintiffs allege
 Wachovia™s common 
stock price was artificially inflated as a result of allegedly 

misleading disclosures relating to the Golden West Financial 

Corp. mortgage portfolio, Wachovia™s exposure to other 

mortgage related products such as CDOs, control issues and
 auction rate securities. On March 19, 2009, the defendants filed 

a motion to dismiss the amended class action complaint in the 

Lipetz case, which has now been re
-captioned as 
In re Wachovia 
Equity Securities Litigation
. There are four additional cases (no
t class actions) containing allegations similar to the allegations in 

the 
In re Wachovia Equity Securities Litigation
 captioned 
Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Wachovia Corp. et al., FC 

Holdings AB, et al. v. Wachovia Corp., et al., Deka Investment 

GmbH v. 
Wachovia Corp. et al. and Forsta AP
-Fonden v. 
Wachovia Corp., et al.
, respectively, which were filed in the U.S. 
District Court for the Southern District of New York, and there 

are a number of other similar actions filed in state courts in 

North Carolina a
nd South Carolina by individual shareholders. 
Two of the individual shareholder actions in South Carolina have 

been dismissed and the shareholders have appealed.
  After a number of procedural motions, three purported class 
action cases alleging violations 
of Sections 11, 12, and 15 of the 

Securities Act of 1933 as a result of allegedly misleading 

disclosures relating to the Golden West mortgage portfolio in 

connection with Wachovia™s issuance of various preferred 

securities and bonds were transferred to the
 U.S. District Court 
for the Southern District of New York. A consolidated class 

action complaint was filed on September 4, 2009, and the matter 

is now captioned 
In Re Wachovia Preferred Securities
 and 
Bond/Notes Litigation
. On September 29, 2009, a non
-class 
action case containing allegations similar to the allegations in 
170    the 
In re Wachovia Preferred Securities and Bond/Notes
 litigation, and captioned 
City of Livonia Employees™ Retirement 
System v. Wachovia Corp et al.
, was filed in the Southern 
District o
f New York. On May 3, 2010, the judge in the Southern 
District of New York issued an order granting Plaintiffs leave to 

amend the class action and other complaints pending in that 

court, and directing the parties to submit a schedule for the filing 

of the 
amended complaints and new motions to dismiss. This 

order terminates the motions to dismiss the prior complaints 

which had been pending. Amended complaints were filed in all 

the actions in May 2010 and renewed motions to dismiss have 

been filed in each cas
e.  OUTLOOK
  When establishing 
a liability
 for 
contingent 
litigation 
losses
, the Company determines a range of potential losses for 

each matter that is both probable and estimable, and records 

the amount it considers to be the best estimate within the rang
e. The high end of the range of potential litigation losses in excess 

of the Company™s best estimates within the range of potential
  losses used in establishing the total litigation 
liability
 was 
$1.2
 billion as of December 31, 2010. For these matters and
 others where an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but 

not probable, there may be a range of possible losses in excess 

of the established liability that cannot be estimated.
 Based on 
information currently available, advice of counsel, available
 
insurance coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo 
believes that the eventual outcome of the actions against Wells 

Fargo and/or its subsidiaries, 
including the matters described 

above, will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material 

adverse
 effect on 
Wells Fargo™s consolidated financial position. 
However, in the event of unexpected future 
developments, it is 
possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters, if 

unfavorable, may be material to Wells Fargo™s results of 

operations for any 
particular period.
 171     We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest 
rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, to generate profits 

from 
proprietary trading
 and to assist customers with their risk 
management obj
ectives. Derivative transactions are measured in 
terms of the notional amount, but this amount is not recorded 

on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a 

meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. The 

notional amount is ge
nerally not exchanged, but is used only as 
the basis on which interest and other payments are determined.
 Note 15:  Derivatives
   Our 
asset/liability management approach to interest rate, 
foreign currency and certain other risks
 includes the use of 
derivatives.
 Such derivatives 
are typically designated as fair 

value or cash flow hedges, or economic hedge derivatives for 

those that do not qualify for hedge accounting. 
This helps 
minimize significant, unplanned fluctuations in earnings, fair 

values of assets and liabilities, and ca
sh flows caused by interest 
rate
, foreign currency and other
 market value 
volatility. This 
approach involves modifying the repricing characteristics of 

certain assets and liabilities so that changes in interest rates
, foreign currency and other
 exposures 
do not have a significant 
adverse effec
t on the net interest margin,
 cash flows
 and 
earnings
. As a result of
 fluctuations
 in these exposures
, hedged 
assets and liabilities will gain or lose market value. In a fair value
 or economic hedge
, the effect of this
 unrealized gain or loss will 
generally be offset by the gain or loss on the derivatives linked to 

the hedged assets and liabilities.
 In a cash flow hedge
, where 
we 
manage the variability of cash payments due to interest rate 

fluctuations by the effective 
use of derivatives linked t
o hedged 
assets and liabilities, the unrealized gain or loss on the 

derivatives or the hedged asset or liability is generally not 

reflected in earnings.
   We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, 
commodity, eq
uity, credit and foreign exchange contracts, to our 
customers but usually offset our exposure from such contracts by 

purchasing other financial contracts. The customer 

accommodations and any offsetting financial contracts are 

treated as free
-standing deriv
atives. Free
-standing derivatives 
also include derivatives we enter into for risk management that 

do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting, including 

economic hedge derivatives. To a lesser extent, we take positions 

based on market expectations or to 
benefit from price 

differentials between financial instruments and markets. 

Additionally, free
-standing derivatives include embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for from 

their host contracts.
  The following table presents the t
otal notional or contractual 
amounts and fair values for derivatives, the fair values of 

derivatives designated as qualifying hedge contracts, which are 

used as asset/liability management hedges, and free
-standing 
derivatives (economic hedges) not designat
ed as hedging 
instruments are recorded on the balance sheet in other assets or 

other liabilities. Customer accommodation, trading and other 

free
-standing derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at 
fair value in trading assets or other liabilities.
 172                
                                  December 31, 2010
   December 31, 2009
              Notional or
   Fair value
 Notional or
 Fair value
              contractual
   Asset
 Liability
 contractual
 Asset
 Liability
 (in millions)
      amount
 derivatives
 derivatives
   amount
 derivatives
 derivatives
 Qualifying hedge contracts 
                     Interest rate contracts (1) 
 $  110,314
     7,126
   1,614
     119,966
   6,425
   1,302
    Foreign exchange contracts 
    25,904
     1,527
   727     30,212
   1,5
53   811  Total derivatives designated as 
                     qualifying hedging instruments 
        8,653
   2,341
       7,978
   2,113
  Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
                     Free
-standing derivatives (economic hedges):
                        Interest rate contracts (2) 
    408,563
     2,898
   2,625
     633,734
   4,441
   4,873
      Equity contracts 
    176     -   46     300   -   2      Foreign exchange contracts 
    5,528
     23   53     7,019
   233   29      Credi
t contracts 
- protection purchased 
    396     80   -     577   261   -      Other derivatives 
    2,538
     -   35     4,583
   -   40        Subtotal 
        3,001
   2,759
       4,935
   4,944
    Customer accommodation, trading and other 
                       free
-standing derivatives (3): 
                       Interest rate contracts 
    2,809,387
     58,225
   59,329
     2,741,119
   54,873
   54,033
      Commodity contracts 
    83,114
     4,133
   3,918
     92,182
   5,400
   5,182
      Equity contrac
ts 
    73,278
     3,272
   3,450
     71,572
   2,459
   3,067
      Foreign exchange contracts 
    110,889
     2,800
   2,682
     142,012
   3,084
   2,737
      Credit contracts 
- protection sold 
    47,699
     605   5,826
     84,541
   979   9,592
      Credit 
contracts 
- protection purchased 
    44,776
     4,661
   588     86,014
   9,354
   1,089
      Other derivatives 
    190     8   -     2,314
   427   171        Subtotal 
        73,704
   75,793
       76,576
   75,871
  Total derivatives not designated as hedg
ing instruments 
        76,705
   78,552
       81,511
   80,815
  Total derivatives before netting 
        85,358
   80,893
       89,489
   82,928
  Netting 
(4)
        (63,469)
  (70,009)
      (65,926)
  (73,303)
         Total 
     $  21,889
   10,884
       23,563
   9,625
              
                   (1)
 Notional amounts presented exclude $20.9 billion at both December 3
1, 2010
 and 
2009, of basis swaps that are combined with receive fixed
-rate/pay floating
-rate swaps 
and designated as one hedging instrument.
 (2)
 Inc
ludes free
-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs, MHFS, interes
t rate lock commitments and 
other interests held.
 (3)
 Balances at December 31, 2009
 have been revised to conform with the cu
rrent presentation.
 (4)
 Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral, with the same counterparty subjec
t to master netting arrangements. The amount of 
cash collateral netted against derivative assets and liabilitie
s was $5.5 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010, and $5.3 billion and $14.1 billion, 
respectively, at December 31, 2009.
    173 Note 15:  Derivatives 
(continued)
    Fair Value Hedges
 We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed
-rate 
long
-term debt and CDs t
o floating rates to hedge our exposure 
to interest rate risk. We also enter into cross
-currency swaps, 
cross
-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to 
hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk 
associated with the issuan
ce of non
-U.S. dollar denominated 
long
-term debt and repurchase agreements. In addition, 
we use 
interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge against 

changes in fair value of certain investments in available
-for
-sale 
debt securities, due to changes in
 interest rates, foreign currency 
rates, or both. The entire derivative
 gain or loss 
is 
included in the 
assessment of hedge effectiveness, 
for all fair value hedge 
relationships, 
except for 
those involving 
foreign
-currency 
denominated securities available 
for sale, short
-term borrowings 
and long
-term debt hedged with foreign currency 
forward 
derivatives for which the component of the derivative gain or 
loss related to the changes in the difference between the spot and 

forward price is excluded from the asse
ssment of hedge 
effectiveness.
  We use statistical regression analysis to assess hedge 
effectiveness, both at inception of the hedging relationship and 

on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing 

the periodic change in fair value of th
e hedging instrument 
against the periodic changes in fair value of the asset or liability 

being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The 

assessment includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures 

of the regression results used to validate the c
onclusion of high 
effectiveness.
  The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized in 
the income statement related to derivatives in fair value hedging 

relationships.
            
                                Interest rate
   Foreign exchange
 Total net
                contracts hedging:
   contracts hedging:
 gains
                            (losses)
                Securities 
     Securities 
     on fair
                available 
 Long
-term
   available 
 Short
-term
 Long
-term
 value
   (in million
s) 
   for sale
 debt
   for sale
 borrowings
 debt
 hedges
                                Year ended December 31, 2010
                    Gains (losses) recorded in net interest income
  $  (390)
  1,755
     (4)
  -   374   1,735
                                 Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income
                      Recognized on derivatives
     (432)
  1,565
     269   -   (1,030)
  372      Recognized on hedged item
     469   (1,469)
    (270)
  -   1,007
   (263)
     Recognized on fair value hedges (ineffective portion) 
(1)
 $  37   96     (1)
  -   (23)
  109                                 Year ended December 31, 2009 
                   Gains (losses) recorded in net interest income 
 $  (289)
  1,677
     (56)
  27   349   1,708
                                 Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income 
                     Recognized on derivatives 
    954   (3,270)
    (713)
  217   2,612
   (200)
     Recognized on hedged item 
    (936)
  3,132
     713   (217)
  (2,626)
  66      Recognized on fair 
value hedges (ineffective portion) (1) 
 $  18   (138)
    -   -   (14)
  (134)
             
                   (1)
 Included $3
 million
 and $(10) million, respectively, for 
year ended December 31, 2010
 and 2009, of gains (losses) on forward derivatives hedging f
oreign currency securities 
available for sale, short
-term borrowings and long
-term debt, representing the portion of derivatives gains (losses) excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness 
(time value).
 174    Cash Flow Hedges
 We hedge floating
-rate debt 
against future interest rate increases 
by using interest rate swaps, caps, floors and futures to limit 
variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark 

interest rate. We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge 

the variability in interest 
payments received on certain floating
-rate commercial loans, due to changes in the benchmark interest 

rate. Gains and losses on derivatives that are reclassified from 

cumulative OCI to current period earnings are included in the 

line item in which the hedg
ed item™s effect on earnings is 

recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these derivatives are 

included in the assessment of hedge effectiven
ess. W
e assess 
hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, 
both at inception 

of the hedging relationship and on an
 ongoing basis. The 
regression analysis involves regressing the periodic changes in 

cash flows of the hedging instrument against the periodic 
changes in cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged 

due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessm
ent includes an 
evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results 

used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness.
  Based upon current interest rates, we estimate that 
$367
 million of deferred net gai
ns on derivatives in OCI at 
Decemb
er 31, 2010
, will be reclassified as earnings during the 
next twelve months, compared with
 $284
 million at 
December
 31,
 2009
. 
Future changes to interest rates may 
significantly change actual amounts reclassified to earnings. 
We are hedging our exposure to 
the variability of future cash flows 

for all forecasted transactions for a maximum of 
8 years for both 

hedges of floating
-rate debt and floating
-rate commercial loans.
  The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized 
related to derivatives in c
ash flow hedging relationships.
                          Year ended
         December 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
  2009  Gains (after tax) recognized in OCI on derivatives
 $  468   107  Gains (pre tax) reclassified from cumulative OCI into net interest 
income
    613   531  Gains (pre tax) recognized in noninterest income on derivatives (1)
    6   42                              (1)
 Represents ineffectiveness recognized on cash flow hedge derivatives
. Free
-Standing Derivatives
 We use free
-standing deriva
tives (economic hedges), in addition 
to debt securities available for sale, to hedge the risk of changes 

in the fair value of residential MSRs
 measured at fair value
, 
certain
 residential MHFS, derivative loan commitments and
 other interests held. T
he resul
ting gain or loss 
on these economic 
hedges is reflected in other income.
  The derivatives used to hedge 
these
 MSRs
 measured at fair 
value
, which include swaps, swaptions, forwards, Eurodollar and 
Treasury futures and options contracts, resulted in net deri
vat
ive 
gains of $
4.5
 billion in 2010 and $
6.8
 billion in 2009, which 
are 
included in mortgage banking noninterest income. The 

aggregate fair value of these der
ivatives
 was a net liability of 
$943 million and $
961
 million at Decemb
er 31, 2010 and 2009, 
resp
ectively
. Changes in fair value of debt securities available for 
sale (unrealized gains and losses) are not included in servicing 

income, but are reported in cumulative OCI (net of tax) or, upon 

sale, are reported in net gains (losses) on debt securities 

available for sale.
  Interest rate lock commitments for residential mortgage 
loans that we intend to sell are considered free
-standing 
derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative lo
an 
commitments, as well as substantially all 
residential 
MHF
S, is 
hedg
ed with free
-standing derivatives (economic hedges) such as 
forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and options, and 

Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The 

commitments, free
-standing derivatives and residential MHFS 
are carried at
 fair value with changes in fair value included in 
mortgage banking noninterest income. For the fair value 

measurement of 
interest rate lock commitments we include, at 
inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the 

expected net future cash flows
 related to the associated servicing 
of the loan
. Fair value c
hanges subsequent to inception are based 
on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the 

exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that 

the loan will not fund 
within the terms of the commitment 

(referred to as a fall
-out factor). The value of the underlying loan 
is affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage 

of time. However, 
changes in investor demand 
can also cause 

changes in 
the value of t
he underlying loan value
 that cannot be 
hedged. The aggregate fair value of derivative loan commitments 

in the balance sheet was a
 net liability of $
271
 million and
 $312
 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively
, and 
is included in the caption ﬁI
nterest rate contractsﬂ under 
ﬁCustomer 
accomm
odation, trading and other free
-standing 
derivativesﬂ in the first table in this Note.
  We also enter into various derivatives primarily to provide 
derivative products to customers. To a lesser extent, we take 

positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price 

differentials between financial instruments and markets. These 

derivatives are not linked to specific assets and liabilities in the 

balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting
 hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge 

accounting. We also enter into free
-standing derivatives for risk 

management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting. 

They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded
 as part of other noninterest income.
  Free
-standing derivatives
 also
 include embedded derivatives 
that are required to be accounted for separate from their host 

contract. We periodically issue hybrid long
-term notes and CDs 
where the performance of the hy
brid instrument notes is linked 
to an equity, commodity or currency index, or basket of such 

indices. These notes contain explicit terms that affect some or all 

of the cash flows or the value of the note in a manner similar to a 
175 Note 15:  Derivatives 
(continued)
    derivative instrument and t
herefore are considered to contain an 
ﬁembeddedﬂ derivative instrument. The indices on which the 
performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not 

clearly and closely related to the host debt instrument. 
The 
ﬁembeddedﬂ derivative is separated from
 the host contract and 
accounted for as a free
-standing derivative.
 Additionally, we may 
invest in hybrid instruments that contain embedded derivatives, 

such as credit derivatives, that are not clearly and closely related 
to the host contract. In such inst
ances, we either elect fair value 

option for the hybrid instrument or separate the embedded 

derivative from the host contract and account for the host 

contract and derivative separately.
  The following ta
ble shows the net gains
 recognized in the 
income sta
tement related to derivatives not designated as 
hedging instruments.
                                  Year ended
               December 31,
 (in millions)
      2010
   2009  Gains (losses) recognized on free
-standing derivatives (economic hedges):
         Interest rate contracts (1)
           Recognized in noninterest income:
             Mortgage banking
 $  1,611
   5,582
        Other
    (22)
  (15)
   Foreign exchange contracts
    103   133    Credit contracts
    (174)
  (269)
         Subtotal
    1,5
18   5,431
  Gains (losses) recognized on customer accommodation, trading and other free
-standing derivatives:
         Interest rate contracts (2)
           Recognized in noninterest income:
             Mortgage banking
    3,305
   2,035
        Other
    224   1,139
    Commodity contracts
    65   29    Equity contracts
    441   (275)
   Foreign exchange contracts
    565   607    Credit contracts
    (710)
  (621)
   Other
    10   (187)
         Subtotal
    3,900
   2,727
  Net gains recognized related to 
derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
 $  5,418
   8,158
                    (1)
 Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on the derivatives used as economic hedges of MSRs
 measured at fair value
, interest rate lock
 commitments 
and mortgages held for sale.
 (2)
 Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on interest rate lock commitments.
 Credit Derivatives
 We use credit derivatives to manage exposure to credit risk 

related to lending and i
nvesting activity and to assist customers 
with their risk management objectives. This may include 

protection sold to offset purchased protection in structured 

product transactions, as well as liquidity agreements written to 

special purpose vehicles. The ma
ximum exposure of sold credit 
derivatives is managed through posted collateral, purchased 

credit derivatives and similar products in order to achieve our 

desired credit risk profile. This credit risk management provides 

an ability to recover a significant 
portion of any amounts that 

would be paid under the sold credit derivatives. We would be 

required to perform under the noted credit derivatives in the 

event of default by the referenced obligors. Events of default 

include events such as bankruptcy, capital
 restructuring or lack 
of principal and/or interest payment. In certain cases, other 

triggers may exist, such as the credit downgrade of the 

referenced obligors or the inability of the special purpose vehicle 

for which we have provided liquidity to obtain 
funding. 
 176    The following table provides details of sold and purchased credit derivatives.
                                             Notional amount
                   Protection
   Protection
                       sold 
-    purchased
 Net
                     non
-   with
 protection
 Other
               Fair value
 Protection
 investment
   identical
 sold
 protection
 Range of
 (in millions)
   liability
 sold (A)
 grade
 underlyings (B)
 (A) 
- (B)
 purchased
 maturities
 December 31, 2010
                   Credit de
fault swaps on:
                     Corporate bonds
 $  810   30,445
   16,360
     17,978
   12,467
   9,440
  2011
-2020
   Structured products
    4,145
   5,825
   5,246
     4,948
   877   2,482
  2016
-2056
 Credit protection on:
                     Default swap
 index
    12   2,700
   909     2,167
   533   1,106
  2011
-2017
   Commercial mortgage
-                       backed securities index
    717   1,977
   612     924   1,053
   779  2049
-2052
   Asset
-backed securities index
    128   144   144     46   98   142  2037
-2046
 Loan deliverable credit default swaps
    2   481   456     391   90   261  2011
-2014
 Other
    12   6,127
   5,348
     41   6,086
   2,745
  2011
-2056
   Total credit derivatives
 $  5,826
   47,699
   29,075
     26,495
   21,204
   16,955
                                December 31, 2009
                   Credit default swaps on:
                     Corporate bonds
 $  2,419
   55,511
   23,815
     44,159
   11,352
   12,634
  2010-2018   Structured products
    4,498
   6,627
   5,084
     4,999
   1,628
   3,018
  2014-2056 Credit protection on:
                     Default swap index
    23   6,611
   2,765
     4,202
   2,409
   2,510
  2010-2017   Commercial mortgage
-backed securities index
    1,987
   5,188
   453     4,749
   439   189  2049-2052   Asset
-backe
d securities index
    637   830   660     696   134   189  2037-2046 Loan deliverable credit default swaps
    12   510   494     423   87   287  2010-2014 Other (1)
    16   9,264
   8,657
     32   9,232
   4,757
  2010-2020   Total credit derivatives
 $  9,592   84,541
   41,928
     59,260
   25,281
   23,584
                                (1)
 Balances at December 31, 2009,
 have been revised to conform with the current presentation.
  Protection sold represents the estimated maximum exposure 
to loss that would be
 incurred under an assumed hypothetical 
circumstance, where the value of our interests and any 
associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration 

of recovery or of
fset from any economic hedges. We believe this 

hypothetical circumstance to be
 an extremely remote possibility 
and a
ccordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of 
expected loss. The amounts under non
-investment grade 
represent the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on 

which we ha
ve a
 higher risk of being requ
ired to perform under 
the terms of the credit derivative and 
are a function of the 
underlying assets. 
 We consider the risk of performance to be high if the 
underlying assets under the credit derivative have an external 

rating that is below investment gra
de or an internal credit 
default grade that is equivalent thereto. We believe the net 

protection sold, which is representative of the net notional 

amount of protection sold and purchased with identical 

underlyings, in combination with other protection purc
hased, is 
more representative of our exposure to loss than either non
-
investment grade or protection sold. Other protection purchased 

represents additional protection, which may offset the exposure 

to loss for protection sold, that was not purchased with a
n identical underlying of the protection sold. 
 177 Note 15:  Derivatives 
(continued)
     Credit
-Risk Contingent Features
 Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if 
the credit rating of our debt, based on certain major credit rating 

agencies indicated in the relevant contr
acts, were to fall below 
investment grade, the counterparty could demand additional 

collateral or require termination or replacement of derivative 

instruments in a net liability position. The aggregate fair value of 

all derivative instruments with such cre
dit
-risk
-related 
contingent features that are in a
 net liability position was 
$12.6
 billio
n and $
7.5
 billion at December 31, 
2010 and 2009, 
respectively, for which we had posted $
12.0
 billion and 
$7.1
 billion, respectively, in collateral in the normal cour
se of 
business. If the credit
-risk
-related contingent features 
underlying these agreements had been triggered on 

Decemb
er 31, 2010 or 2009, we would have been required to
 post additional collateral of $
1.0
 billion
, or potentially settle the 
contract in an 
amount equal to its fair value.
  Counterparty Credit Risk
 By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk 

if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as 

expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty 

credi
t risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset 
on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset 

are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent 

subject to master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a 

loss position with the same counterparty and cash collateral 
received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through credit 

approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master 

netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where 

appropriate. To the exte
nt the master netting arrangements and 
other criteria meet the 
applicable requirements
, derivatives 
balances and related cash collateral amounts are shown net in 

the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives 

is considered in determinin
g fair value and our assessment of 
hedge effectiveness.
  178     We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments 
to certain assets and liabilities and to determine fair value 

disclosures. Trading a
ssets, securities available for sale, 
derivatives, substantially all prime residential MHFS, certain 

commercial LHFS, fair value MSRs, principal investments and 

securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) are 

recorded at fair value on a 
recurring basis. Additionally, from 

time to time, we may be required to record at fair value other 

assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain residential and 

commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment and 

certain other assets. These nonr
ecurring fair value adjustments 
typically involve application of lower
-of-cost
-or-market 
accounting or write
-downs of individual assets.
 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities
   We adopted new guidance on fair value measurements 
effective January 1, 2009, which addresses measuring fair value 

in 
situations where markets are inactive and transactions are not 
orderly. This guidance states transaction or quoted prices for 

assets or liabilities in inactive markets may require adjustment 

due to the uncertainty of whether the underlying transactions 

are orderly. Prior to our adoption of the new provisions for 
measuring fair value, we primarily used unadjusted independent 

vendor or broker quoted prices to measure fair value for 

substantially all securities available for sale.
  In connection with the chang
e in guidance for fair value 
measurement, we developed policies and procedures to 

determine when the level and volume of activity for our assets 

and liabilities requiring fair value measurements has 

significantly declined relative to normal conditions. For
 such 
items that use price quotes, such as certain security classes 

within securities available for sale, the degree of market 

inactivity and distressed transactions was analyzed to determine 

the appropriate adjustment to the price quotes.
  The security cl
asses where we considered the market to be 
less orderly upon initial adoption of the new guidance included 

non
-agency residential MBS, commercial MBS, CDOs, home 
equity asset
-backed securities, auto asset
-backed securities and 
credit card
-backed securities
. The methodology used to adjust 
the quotes involved weighting the price quotes and results of 

internal pricing techniques such as the net present value of 

future expected cash flows (with observable inputs, where 

available) discounted at a rate of return 
market participants 

require. The significant inputs utilized in the internal pricing 

techniques, which were estimated by type of underlying 

collateral, included credit loss assumptions, estimated 

prepayment speeds and appropriate discount rates.
  The more 
active and orderly markets for particular security 
classes were determined to be, the more weighting assigned to 

price quotes. The less active and orderly markets were 

determined to be, the less weighting assigned to price quotes. 

We continually assess the
 level and volume of market activity in 
our investment security classes in determining adjustments, if 

any, to price quotes. Given market conditions can change over 

time, determination of which securities markets are considered 

active or inactive, and if i
nactive, the degree to which price 
quotes require adjustment, can also change.
   Fair Value Hierarchy
 We group our assets and liabilities measured at fair value in 

three levels, based on the markets in which the assets and 

liabilities are traded and the re
liability of the assumptions used 
to determine fair value. These levels are:
  Level 1 
Œ Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical 
instruments traded in active markets. 
  Level 2 
Œ Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar 
instruments in act
ive markets, quoted prices for identical or 
similar instruments in markets that are not active, and 

model
-based valuation techniques for which all significant 
assumptions are observable in the market. 
  Level 3 
Œ Valuation is generated from model
-based 
tech
niques that use significant assumptions not observable 
in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect 

estimates of assumptions that market participants would 

use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques 

include use of option pricing m
odels, discounted cash flow 
models and similar techniques. 
  In the determination of the classification of financial 
instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, we 

consider all available information, including observable market 

data, ind
ications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our 
understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs 

used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined 

percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments 

derived from
 weighting both external and internal indications of 
value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or 

Level 3. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each 

instrument or instrument category, judgments are made 

regarding the signi
ficance of the Level 3 inputs to the 
instruments' fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 

inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as 

Level 3.
   Determination of Fair Value
 We base our fair values on the price that would b
e received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 

transaction between market participants at the measurement 

date. We maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize 

the use of unobservable inputs when developing fair value 

measu
rements.
  In instances where there is limited or no observable market 
data, fair value measurements for assets and liabilities are based 

primarily upon our own estimates or combination of our own 

estimates and independent vendor or broker pricing, and the 

measurements are often calculated based on current pricing for 

products we offer or issue, the economic and competitive 

environment, the characteristics of the asset or liability and 

other such factors. As with any valuation technique used to 

estimate fair
 value, changes in underlying assumptions used, 
including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, 

could significantly affect the results of current or future values. 

Accordingly, these fair value estimates may not be realized in an 

actual sale o
r immediately settlement of the asset or liability.
 179 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
     We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value 
measurement based on the type of asset or liability measured 
and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain 

residential MHFS and certain
 securities where the significant 
inputs have become unobservable due to illiquid markets and 

vendor or broker pricing is not used, we use a discounted cash 

flow technique to measure fair value. This technique 

incorporates forecasting of expected cash flow
s (adjusted for 
credit loss assumptions and estimated prepayment speeds) 

discounted at an appropriate market discount rate to reflect the 

lack of liquidity in the market that a market participant would 

consider. For other securities where vendor or broker 
pricing is 

used, we use either unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or 

vendor or broker prices adjusted by weighting them with 

internal discounted cash flow techniques to measure fair value. 

These unadjusted vendor or broker prices inherently reflect 
any 

lack of liquidity in the market as the fair value measurement 

represents an exit price from a market participant viewpoint.
  Following are descriptions of the valuation methodologies 
used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a 

recurring
 or nonrecurring basis and for estimating fair value for 
financial instruments not recorded at fair value.
  Assets
 SHORT
-TERM FINANCIAL 
ASSETS
  Short
-term financial assets 
include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and 

securities purchased under r
esale agreements and due from 
customers on acceptances. These assets are carried at historical 

cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value 

because of the relatively short time between the origination of 

the instrument and its expected 
realization.
  TRADING ASSETS (EXCL
UDING DERIVATIVES) A
ND 
SECURITIES AVAILABLE
 FOR SALE  
Trading assets and 
securities available for sale are recorded at fair value on a 

recurring basis. Fair value measurement is based upon quoted 

prices in active markets, if available. Such instruments are 

classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples 

include exchange
-traded equity securities and some highly liquid 
government securities such as U.S. Treasuries. When 

instruments are traded in secondary mark
ets and quoted market 
prices do not exist for such securities, we generally rely on 

internal valuation techniques or on prices obtained from 

independent pricing services or brokers (collectively, vendors) or 

combination thereof.
  Trading securities are mos
tly valued using trader prices that 
are subject to independent price verification procedures. The 

majority of fair values derived using internal valuation 

techniques are verified against multiple pricing sources, 

including prices obtained from independent 
vendors. Vendors 

compile prices from various sources and often apply matrix 

pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. We 

review pricing methodologies provided by the vendors in order 

to determine if observable market information is being 
used, 

versus unobservable inputs. When evaluating the 

appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with 

vendor prices, considerations include the range and quality of 

vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the 
reasonableness of a trader pr
ice; however valuing financial 

instruments involves judgments acquired from knowledge of a 

particular market and is not perfunctory. If a trader asserts that 

a vendor price is not reflective of market value, justification for 

using the trader price, includ
ing recent sales activity where 
possible, must be provided to and approved by the appropriate 

levels of management.
  Similarly, while securities available for sale traded in 
secondary markets are typically valued using unadjusted vendor 

prices or vendor pr
ices adjusted by weighting them with internal 
discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, 

if deemed inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge 

of a particular market, can be adjusted. Securities measured with 

these internal va
luation techniques are generally classified as 
Level 2 of the hierarchy and often involve using quoted market 

prices for similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash 

flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market 

where available or 
combination of multiple valuation techniques. 

Examples include certain residential and commercial MBS, 

municipal bonds, U.S. government and agency MBS, and 

corporate debt securities.
  Security fair value measurements using significant inputs 
that are unobs
ervable in the market due to limited activity or a 
less liquid market are classified as Level 3 in the fair value 

hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using 

internal models or combination of multiple valuation techniques 

such as weighting
 of internal models and vendor or broker 
pricing, where the unobservable inputs are significant to the 

overall fair value measurement. Securities classified as Level 3 

include certain residential and commercial MBS, asset
-backed 
securities collateralized b
y auto leases or loans and cash 
reserves, CDOs and CLOs, and certain residual and retained 

interests in residential mortgage loan securitizations. CDOs are 

valued using the prices of similar instruments, the pricing of 

completed or pending third party tran
sactions or the pricing of 
the underlying collateral within the CDO. Where vendor or 

broker prices are not readily available, management's best 

estimate is used.
  MORTGAGES HELD FOR S
ALE (MHFS)
  We carry substantially all 
of our residential MHFS portfolio 
at fair value. Fair value is 

based on independent quoted market prices, where available, or 

the prices for other mortgage whole loans with similar 

characteristics. As necessary, these prices are adjusted for typical 

securitization activities, including ser
vicing value, portfolio 
composition, market conditions and liquidity. Most of our MHFS 

are classified as Level 2. For the portion where market pricing 

data is not available, we use a discounted cash flow model to 

estimate fair value and, accordingly, class
ify as Level 3. 
  LOANS HELD FOR SALE 
(LHFS)  
LHFS are carried at the lower of 
cost or market value, or at fair value for certain portfolios that 

we intend to hold for trading purposes. The fair value of LHFS is 

based on what secondary markets are currentl
y offering for 
portfolios with similar characteristics. As such, we classify those 

loans subjected to nonrecurring fair value adjustments as 

Level
 2.  180    LOANS  
For the carrying value of loans, including PCI loans, see 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accountin
g Policies 
Œ Loans). 
We generally do not record loans at fair value on a recurring 
basis. However, from time to time, we record nonrecurring fair 

value adjustments to loans to reflect partial write
-downs that are 
based on the observable market price of the
 loan or current 

appraised value of the collateral.
  We provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for loans 
that are not recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring 

basis. Those estimates differentiate loans based on their 

financial charact
eristics, such as product classification, loan 
category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Prepayment 

and credit loss estimates are evaluated by product and loan rate.
  The fair value of commercial loans is calculated by 
discounting contractual cash
 flows, adjusted for credit loss 
estimates, using discount rates that reflect our current pricing 

for loans with similar characteristics and remaining maturity.
  For real estate 1
-4 family first and junior lien mortgages, fair 
value is calculated by discou
nting contractual cash flows, 
adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using 

discount rates based on current industry pricing (where readily 

available) or our own estimate of an appropriate risk
-adjusted 
discount rate for loans of similar size, t
ype, remaining maturity 
and repricing characteristics.
  For credit card loans, the portfolio's yield is equal to our 
current pricing and, therefore, the fair value is equal to book 

value adjusted for estimates of credit losses inherent in the 

portfolio at 
the balance sheet date.
  For all other consumer loans, the fair value is generally 
calculated by discounting the contractual cash flows, adjusted 

for prepayment and credit loss estimates, based on the current 

rates we offer for loans with similar character
istics.
  Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit generate ongoing fees at our current 

pricing levels, which are recognized over the term of the 

commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of th
e counterparty to a commitment has declined, we record an 

allowance. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these 

instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related 

allowance. Certain letters of credit that are hedged with 

derivative i
nstruments are carried at fair value in trading assets 
or liabilities. For those letters of credit fair value is calculated 

based on readily quotable credit default spreads, using a market 

risk credit default swap model.
  DERIVATIVES  
Quoted market prices 
are available and used for 
our exchange
-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate 
futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1. 

However, substantially all of our derivatives are traded in over
-the
-counter (OTC) markets where quoted ma
rket prices are not 
always readily available. Therefore we value most OTC 

derivatives using internal valuation techniques. Valuation 

techniques and inputs to internally
-developed models depend on 
the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, pr
ice or 
index upon which the derivative's value is based. Key inputs can 

include yield curves, credit curves, foreign
-exchange rates, 
prepayment rates, volatility measurements and correlation of 

such inputs. Where model inputs can be observed in a liquid 
market and the model does not require significant judgment, 
such derivatives are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair 

value hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 2 

include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, 

commodity
 swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. 
When instruments are traded in less liquid markets and 

significant inputs are unobservable, such derivatives are 

classified as Level 3. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 

include complex and high
ly structured derivatives, certain credit 
default swaps, interest rate lock commitments written for our 

residential mortgage loans that we intend to sell and long dated 

equity options where volatility is not observable. Additionally, 

significant judgments 
are required when classifying financial 

instruments within the fair value hierarchy, particularly between 

Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain derivatives. 
  MORTGAGE SERVICING R
IGHTS (MSR
s) AND CERTAIN OTHER 
INTERESTS HELD IN SE
CURITIZATIONS  
MSRs an
d certain 
other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest
-only strips) 
do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices. 

Accordingly, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a 

valuation model that calculates the present value of es
timated 
future net servicing income cash flows. The model incorporates 

assumptions that market participants use in estimating future 

net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of 

prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount 

ra
te, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and 
foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual 

servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Commercial 

MSRs and certain residential MSRs are carried at lower of cost 

or market
 value, and therefore can be subject to fair value 
measurements on a nonrecurring basis. Changes in the fair value 

of MSRs occur primarily due to the collection/realization of 

expected cash flows, as well as changes in valuation inputs and 

assumptions. For
 other interests held in securitizations (such as 
interest
-only strips) we use a valuation model that calculates the 
present value of estimated future cash flows. The model 

incorporates our own estimates of assumptions market 

participants use in determinin
g the fair value, including 
estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rates, defaults and 

contractual fee income. Interest
-only strips are recorded as 
trading assets. Our valuation approach is validated by our 

internal valuation model validation group. Fair
 value 
measurements of our MSRs and interest
-only strips use 
significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we classify as 

Level 3. 
  FORECLOSED ASSETS  
Foreclosed assets are carried at net 
realizable value, which represents fair value less costs to sel
l. 
Fair value is generally based upon independent market prices or 

appraised values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify 

foreclosed assets as Level 2.
  181 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
    NONMARKETABLE EQUITY
 INVESTMENTS  
Nonmarketable 
equity investments are recorded under the co
st or equity method 
of accounting. There are generally restrictions on the sale and/or 
liquidation of these investments, including federal bank stock. 

Federal bank stock carrying value approximates fair value. We 

use facts and circumstances available to es
timate the fair value of 
our nonmarketable equity investments. We typically consider 

our access to and need for capital (including recent or projected 

financing activity), qualitative assessments of the viability of the 

investee, evaluation of the financia
l statements of the investee 
and prospects for its future. Public equity investments are valued 

using quoted market prices and discounts are only applied when 

there are trading restrictions that are an attribute of the 

investment. Investments in non
-public
 securities are recorded at 
our estimate of fair value using metrics such as security prices of 

comparable public companies, acquisition prices for similar 

companies and original investment purchase price multiples, 

while also incorporating a portfolio com
pany's financial 
performance and specific factors. For investments in private 

equity funds, we use the NAV provided by the fund sponsor as an 

appropriate measure of fair value. In some cases, such NAVs 

require adjustments based on certain unobservable inpu
ts.
  Liabilities
 DEPOSIT LIABILITIES 
 Deposit liabilities are carried at historical 
cost. The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as 

noninterest
-bearing demand deposits, interest
-bearing checking, 
and market rate and other savings, is equa
l to the amount 
payable on demand at the measurement date. The fair value of 

other time deposits is calculated based on the discounted value 

of contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using 

the rates currently offered for like wholesale depo
sits with 
similar remaining maturities.
  SHORT
-TERM FINANCIAL LIABI
LITIES  
Short
-term financial 
liabilities are carried at historical cost and include federal funds 

purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, 

commercial paper and other shor
t-term borrowings. The 
carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of 

the relatively short time between the origination of the 

instrument and its expected realization.
  OTHER LIABILITIES  
Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a 
rec
urring basis, excluding derivative liabilities (see the 
ﬁDerivativesﬂ
 section for derivative liabilities), includes 
primarily short sale liabilities. Short sale liabilities are classified 

as either Level 1 or Level 2, generally dependent upon whether 

the u
nderlying securities have readily obtained quoted prices in 
active exchange markets. 
  LONG
-TERM DEBT  
Long
-term debt is generally carried at 
amortized cost. For disclosure, we are required to estimate the 

fair value of long
-term debt. Generally, the disco
unted cash flow 
method is used to estimate the fair value of our long
-term debt. 
Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates currently 

offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities and, as 

such, these discount rates include our current spread levels. 
 182     Fair Value Measurements from Independent 
Brokers or Independent Third Party Pricing Services
 For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair value 
measurements from independent brokers or independent third 

party pricing services and record
 the unadjusted fair value in our 
financial statements. The detail by level is shown in the table 

below. Fair value measurements obtained from independent 

brokers or independent third party pricing services that we have 

adjusted to determine the fair value
 recorded in our financial 

statements are not included in the 
following 
table.
                                                Independent brokers
   Third party pricing services
 (in millions)
   Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
   Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
                               December 31, 2010
                 Trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 $  -   1,211
   6     21   2,123
   -  Securities available for sale:
                   Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
    -   -   -     936   263   -    Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    -   15   -     -   14,055
   -    Mortgage
-backed securities
    -   3   50     -   102,206
   169    Other debt securities
    -   201   4,133
     -   14,376
   606      Total debt securiti
es    -   219   4,183
     936   130,900
   775      Total marketable equity securities
    -   -   -     201   727   16        Total securities available for sale
    -   219   4,183
     1,137
   131,627
   791  Derivatives (trading and other assets)
    -   15   44     -   740   8  Loans held for sale
    -   -   -     -   1   -  Derivatives (liabilities)
    -   -   46     -   841   -  Other liabilities 
    -   20   -     -   393   -                                                              December 3
1, 2009
                 Trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 $  -   4,208
   -     30   1,712
   81  Securities available for sale
    85   1,870
   548     1,467
   120,688
   1,864
  Loans held for sale
    -   -   -     -   2   -  Derivatives (trading and
 other assets)
    -   8   42     -   2,926
   9  Derivatives (liabilities)
    -   -   70     -   2,949
   4  Other liabilities 
    -   -   -     10   3,916
   26                                183 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
    Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a 
Recurring 
Basis
 The tables below present the balances of assets and liabilities 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
                  
               (in millions) 
   Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Netting
   Total
 December 31, 2010 
               Trading assets 
(excluding derivatives) 
                 Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
 $  1,340
   3,335
   -   -     4,675
    Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
    -   1,893
   5   -     1,898
    Collateralized debt obligations 
    -   -   1,915
   -     1,915
    Corporate debt securities 
    -   10,164
   166   -     10,330
    Mortgage
-backed securities 
    -   9,137
   117   -     9,254
    Asset
-backed securities 
    -   1,811
   366   -     2,177
    Equity securities 
    2,143
   625   34   -     2,802
      Total trading securities 
    3,483
   26,965
   2,603
   -     33,051
    Other trading assets 
    816   987   136   -     1,939
        Total trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
    4,299
   27,952
   2,739
   -     34,990
  Secur
ities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
    938   666   -   -     1,604
  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
    -   14,090
   4,564
   -     18,654
  Mortgage
-backed securities: 
                 Federal agencies 
    -   82,037
   -   -     82,037
    Residential 
    -   20,183
   20   -     20,203
    Commercial 
    -   13,337
   217   -     13,554
      Total mortgage
-backed securities 
    -   115,557
   237   -     115,794
  Corporate debt securities 
    -   9,846
   433   -     10,279
  Collateralized debt obligations 
    -   -   4,778
   -     4,778
  Asset
-backed securities: 
                 Auto loans and leases 
    -   223   6,133
   -     6,356
    Home equity loans 
    -   998   112   -     1,110
    Other asset
-backed securities 
    -   5,285
   3,150
   -     8,435
      Total asset
-backed securities 
    -   6,506
   9,395
   -     15,901
  Other debt securities 
    -   370   85   -     455        Total debt securities 
    938   147,035
   19,492
   -     167,465
  Marketable equity secu
rities: 
                 Perpetual preferred securities 
(1)
    721   677   2,434
   -     3,832
    Other marketable equity securities 
    1,224
   101   32   -     1,357
        Total marketable equity securities 
    1,945
   778   2,466
   -     5,189
          Total securities available for sale 
    2,883
   147,813
   21,958
   -     172,654
  Mortgages held for sale  
    -   44,226
   3,305
   -     47,531
  Loans held for sale 
    -   873   -   -     873  Loans 
    -   -   309   -     309  Mortgage servicin
g rights (residential) 
    -   -   14,467
   -     14,467
  Derivative assets: 
                 Interest rate contracts 
    -   67,380
   869   -     68,249
    Commodity contracts 
    -   4,133
   -   -     4,133
    Equity contracts 
    511   2,040
   721   -     3,272
    Foreign exchange contracts 
    42   4,257
   51   -     4,350
    Credit contracts 
    -   2,148
   3,198
   -     5,346
    Other derivative contracts 
    8   -   -   -     8      Netting 
    -   -   -   (63,469)
 (2)
  (63,469)
       Total 
derivative assets 
(3)
    561   79,958
   4,839
   (63,469)
    21,889
  Other assets 
    38   45   314   -     397            Total assets recorded at fair value 
 $  7,781
   300,867
   47,931
   (63,469)
    293,110
  Derivative liabilities: 
                 Interest rate contracts 
 $  (7)
  (62,769)
  (792)
  -     (63,568)
   Commodity contracts 
    -   (3,917)
  (1)
  -     (3,918)
   Equity contracts 
    (259)
  (2,291)
  (946)
  -     (3,496)
   Foreign exchange contracts 
    (69)
  (3,351)
  (42)
  -     (3,462)
   Credit contracts 
    -   (2,199)
  (4,215)
  -     (6,414)
   Other derivative contracts 
    -   -   (35)
  -     (35)
     Netting 
    -   -   -   70,009
  (2)
  70,009
        Total derivative liabilities 
(4)
    (335)
  (74,527)
  (6,031)
  70,009
     (10,884)
 Short sale liabilities: 
                 Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
    (2,827)
  (1,129)
  -   -     (3,956)
   Corporate debt securities 
    -   (3,798)
  -   -     (3,798)
   Equity securities 
    (1,701)
  (178)
  -   -     (1,879)
   Other securities 
    -   (347)
  -   -     (347)
     Total short sale liabilities 
    (4,528)
  (5,452)
  -   -     (9,980)
 Other liabilities 
    -   (36)
  (344)
  -     (380)
           Total liabilities recorded at fair value 
 $  (4,863)
  (80,015)
  (6,375
)  70,009
     (21,244)
               
               (1)
 Perpetual preferred securities are primarily ARS. See Note 
8 for additional information.
 (2)
 Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the criteria of the acc
ounting guidance covering the offsetting of amounts related to 
certain contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master netting ag
reement.
 (3)
 Derivative assets include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivatives included in trading assets.
 (4)
 Derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivatives included in tradin
g liabilities.
  (continued on following page)
 184     (continued f
rom previous page)
                                                                       (in millions)
     Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Netting 
   Total
 December 31, 2009
               Trading assets (excluding derivatives) (1)
 $  2,386
   20,497
   2,311
   -     25,194
  Derivatives (trading assets)
    340   70,938
   5,682
   (59,115)
  (2)
  17,845
  Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
    1,094
   1,186
   -   -     2,280
  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    4   12,708
   818   -     13,530
  Mortgage
-backed securities:
                 Federal agencies
    -   82,818
   -   -     82,818
    Residential
    -   27,506
   1,084
   -     28,590
    Commercial
    -   9,162
   1,799
   -     10,961
      Total mortgage
-backed securities
    -   119,486
   2,883
   -     122,369
  Corporate debt securities
    -   8,968
   367   -     9,335
  Collateralized debt obligations
    -   -   3,725
   -     3,725
  Other
    -   3,292
   12,587
   -     15,879
        Total debt securities
    1,098
   145,640
   20,380
   -     167,118
  Marketable equity securities:
                 Perpetual preferred securities
    736   834   2,305
   -     3,875
    Other marketable equity securities
    1,279
   350   88   -     1,717
        Total marketable equity securities
    2,015
   1,184
   2,393
   -     5,592
          Total securities available for sale
    3,113
   146,824
   22,773
   -     172,710
  Mortgages held for sale 
    -   33,439
   3,523
   -     36,962
  Loans held for sale
    -   149   -   -     149  Mortgage serv
icing rights
    -   -   16,004
   -     16,004
  Other assets (3)
    435   13,217
   1,690
   (6,812)
  (2)
  8,530
            Total
 $  6,274
   285,064
   51,983
   (65,927)
    277,394
  Liabilities (4)
 $  (4,981)
  (83,159)
  (6,863)
  73,299
   (2)
  (21,704)
                                                         (1)
 Includes trading securities of $24.0 billion.
 (2)
 Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the criteria of the accounting guid
ance covering the offsetting of
 amounts related to 
certain contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master netting ag
reement.
 (3)
 Derivative assets other than trading and principal investments are included in this category.
 Balances
 have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
 (4)
 Derivative liabilities are included in this category.
 Balances have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
 185 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
     The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair v
alue on a recurring basis are summarized as follows.
                                  
                                 Net unrealized 
                     Total net gains
 Purchases,
       gains (losses) 
                     (losses) included in
 sales,
       included in net 
                       Other
 issuances
       income related 
                   Balance,
   compre
- and
 Transfers
 Transfers
 Balance,
 to assets and 
                 beginning
 Net
 hensive
 settlements,
 into
 out of
 end of
 liabilities held
    (in millions)
     of year
 income
 income
 net
 Level 3 
 Level 3 
 year
 at period end 
  (1)
 Year ended December 31, 2010
                      Trading assets
                        (excluding derivatives):
                        Securities of U.S. state
s and
                          political subdivisions
 $  5   2   -   (11)
  9   -   5   1       Collateralized debt obligations
    1,133
   418   -   364   -   -   1,915
   11       Corporate bonds
    223   9   -   67   9   (142)
  166   16       Mortgage
-backed securities
    146   (7)
  -   101   -   (123)
  117   (17) 
     Asset
-backed securities
    497   80   -   (141)
  1   (71)
  366   67       Equity securities
    36   1   -   (5)
  2   -   34   (2) 
       Total trading securities
    2,040
   503   -   375   21   (336)
  2,603
   76     Other trading assets
    271   (35)
  -   (19)
  -   (81)
  136   10           Total trading assets
                              (excluding derivatives)
    2,311
   468   -   356   21   (417)
  2,739
   86   (2)
 Securities avai
lable for sale:
                        Securities of U.S. states and
                          political subdivisions
    818   12   63   3,485
   192   (6)
  4,564
   4       Mortgage
-backed securities:
                          Residential
    1,084
   7   (21)  (48)
  274   (1,276)
  20   (8) 
       Commercial
    1,799
   (28)
  404   (10)
  227   (2,175)
  217   (5) 
         Total mortgage
-backed
                              securities
    2,883
   (21)
  383   (58)
  501   (3,451)
  237   (13) 
     Corporate debt
 securities 
    367   7   68   (113)
  259   (155)
  433   -       Collateralized debt obligations
    3,725
   210   96   959   -   (212)
  4,778
   (14) 
     Asset
-backed securities:
                          Auto loans and leases
    8,525
   1   (246)
  (2,403)
  256   -   6,133
   -         Home equity loans
    1,677
   1   40   48   113   (1,767)
  112   (5) 
       Other asset
-backed securities
    2,308
   51   (19)
  903   1,057
   (1,150)
  3,150
   (12) 
         Total asset
-backed securities
    12,510
   53   (225)  (1,452)
  1,426
   (2,917)
  9,395
   (17) 
     Other debt securities
    77   (15)
  11   12   -   -   85   -             Total debt securities
    20,380
   246   396   2,833
   2,378
   (6,741)
  19,492
   (40) 
 (3)
   Marketable equity securities:
                          Perpetual preferred securities
    2,305
   100   (31)
  6   80   (26)
  2,434
   -         Other marketable equity securities
    88   -   5   (21)
  14   (54)
  32   -             Total marketable
                                equity securit
ies
    2,393
   100   (26)
  (15)
  94   (80)
  2,466
   -   (4)
           Total securities
                                  available for sale
    22,773
   346   370   2,818
   2,472
   (6,821)
  21,958
   (40) 
   Mortgages held for sale
    3,523
   43   -   (253
)  380   (388)
  3,305
   39   (5)
 Loans
    -   55   -   (112)
  1,035
   (669)
  309   55   (5)
 Mortgage servicing rights
    16,004
   (5,511)
  -   4,092
   -   (118)
  14,467
   (2,957) 
 (5)
 Net derivative assets and liabilities:
                        Intere
st rate contracts
    (114)
  3,514
   -   (3,482)
  159   -   77   (266) 
     Commodity contracts
    -   (1)
  -   -   -   -   (1)
  (1) 
     Equity contracts
    (344)
  (104)
  -   169   -   54   (225)
  (19) 
     Foreign exchange contracts
    (1)
  21   -   (11)  -   -   9   -       Credit contracts
    (330)
  (675)
  -   (18)
  6   -   (1,017)
  (644) 
     Other derivative contracts
    (43)
  4   -   4   -   -   (35)
  -         Total derivative contracts
    (832)
  2,759
   -   (3,338)
  165   54   (1,192)
  (930) 
 (6)
 Other assets
    1,373
   29   -   (103)
  4   (989)
  314   (38) 
 (2)
 Short sale liabilities
                        (corporate debt securities)
    (26)
  (2)
  -   (37)
  -   65   -   -     Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
    (10)
  (55)
  -   94   (1,038)
  665   (344)
  (58) 
                                                                         (1)
 Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management™s estimates of fair value an
d excludes changes due to 
the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time.
 (2)
 Included in other noninterest income in the income statement.
 (3)
 Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement.
 (4)
 Included in equity investments in the income statement.
 (5)
 Included in mo
rtgage banking in the income statement.
 (6)
 Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.
  (continued on following page)
 186     (continued from previous page)
                                                                                                           Net unrealized
                     Total net gains
 Purchases,
     gains (losses)
                     (losses) included in
 sales,
 Net
   included in net
                       Other
 issuances
 tran
sfers
   income related
                   Balance,
   compre
- and
 into and/
 Balance,
 to assets and
                 beginning
 Net
 hensive
 settlements,
 or out of
 end
 liabilities held
   (in millions)
       of year
 income
 income
 net
 Level 3 
 of year
 at period
 end (1)
   Year ended December 31, 2009
                   Trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 $  3,495
   202   2   (1,749)
  361   2,311
   276  (2)
 Securities available for sale:
                     Securities of U.S. states and political subdivision
s    903   23   -   25   (133)
  818   (8)
     Mortgage
-backed securities:
                       Federal agencies
    4   -   -   -   (4)
  -   -        Residential
    3,510
   (74)
  1,092
   (759)
  (2,685)
  1,084
   (227)
       Commercial
    286   (220)
  894   41   798   1,799
   (112)
         Total mortgage
-backed securities
    3,800
   (294)
  1,986
   (718)
  (1,891)
  2,883
   (339)
     Corporate debt securities 
    282   3   61   (7)
  28   367   -      Collateralized debt obligations
    2,083
   125   577   623   317   3,725
   (84)
     Other
    12,799
   136   1,368
   584   (2,300)
  12,587
   (94)
           Total debt securities
    19,867
   (7)
  3,992
   507   (3,979)
  20,380
   (525)
 (3)
   Marketable equity securities:
                       Perpetual preferr
ed securities 
    2,775
   104   144   (723)
  5   2,305
   (1)
       Other marketable equity securities 
    50   -   (2)
  63   (23)
  88   -            Total marketable equity securities
    2,825
   104   142   (660)
  (18)
  2,393
   (1)
 (4)
           Total s
ecurities available for sale
 $  22,692
   97   4,134
   (153)
  (3,997)
  22,773
   (526)
   Mortgages held for sale
 $  4,718
   (96)
  -   (921)
  (178)
  3,523
   (109)
 (5)
 Mortgage servicing rights
    14,714
   (4,970)
  -   6,260
   -   16,004
   (1,534)
 (5)
 Net d
erivative assets and liabilities
    37   1,439
   -   (2,291)
  (17)
  (832)
  (799)
 (6)
 Other assets (excluding derivatives)
    1,231
   10   -   132   -   1,373
   12  (2)
 Liabilities (excluding derivatives)(7)
    (16)
  (11)
  -   1   (10)
  (36)
  14                                                                    Year ended December 31, 2008
                   Trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 $  418   (120)
  -   3,197
   -   3,495
   (23)
 (2)
 Securities available for sale:
                     Securi
ties of U.S. states and political subdivisions
  168   -   (81)
  538   278   903   -      Mortgage
-backed securities:
                       Federal agencies
    -   -   -   -   4   4   -        Residential
    486   (180)
  (302)
  3,307
   199   3,510
   (150
)       Commercial
    -   (10)
  (210)
  163   343   286   -          Total mortgage
-backed securities
    486   (190)
  (512)
  3,470
   546   3,800
   (150)
     Corporate debt securities 
    -   -   (44)
  326   -   282   -      Collateralized debt obligatio
ns    -   (152)
  (280)
  1,679
   836   2,083
   -      Other
    4,726
   (15)
  (572)
  8,379
   281   12,799
   -            Total debt securities
    5,380
   (357)
  (1,489)
  14,392
   1,941
   19,867
   (150)
 (3)
   Marketable equity securities:
                       Perpetual preferred securities 
    -   -   -   2,775
   -   2,775
   -        Other marketable equity securities 
    1   -   -   49   -   50   -            Total marketable equity securities
    1   -   -   2,824
   -   2,825
   -  (4)
           Total 
securities available for sale
 $  5,381
   (357)
  (1,489)
  17,216
   1,941
   22,692
   (150)
   Mortgages held for sale
 $  146   (280)
  -   561   4,291
   4,718
   (268)
 (5)
 Mortgage servicing rights
    16,763
   (5,927)
  -   3,878
   -   14,714
   (333)
 (5)
 Net 
derivative assets and liabilities
    6   (275)
  1   303   2   37   93  (6)
 Other assets (excluding derivatives)
    -   -   -   1,231
   -   1,231
   -  (2)
 Liabilities (excluding derivatives) (7)
    (27)
  6   -   5   -   (16)
  6                                                                    (1)
 Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management™s estimates of fair value an
d excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time.
 (2)
 Included i
n other noninterest income in the income statement.
 (3)
 Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement.
 (4)
 Included in equity investments in the income statement.
 (5)
 Included in mortgage banking in the income statement.
 (6)
 Included in mortgage b
anking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement.
 (7)
 Balances have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
 187 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
    Changes in Fair Value Levels
 We monitor the availability of observable market data to assess 
the appro
priate classification of financial instruments within the 
fair value hierarchy. Changes in economic conditions or model
-based valuation techniques may require the transfer of financial 

instruments from one fair value level to another. The amounts 

reported 
as transfers represent the fair value as of the beginning 

of the quarter in which the transfer occurred.
  We evaluate the significance of transfers between levels based 
upon the nature of the financial instrument and size of the 

transfer relative to total 
assets, total
 liabilities or total earnings. 
For the year ended December 31, 2010, there were no significant 

transfers in or out of Level 1.
  Significant changes to Level 3 assets for the 
year ended 
December 31,
 2010 are described as follows:
  Our adoption 
of new consolidation accounting guidance on 

January 1, 2010, impacted Level 3 balances for certain 

financial instruments. Reductions in Level 3 balances, 

which represent derecognition of existing investments in 

newly consolidated VIEs, are reflected as tra
nsfers out for 
the following categories: trading assets, $276 million; 

securities available for sale, $1.9 billion; and mortgage 

servicing rights, $118 million. Increases in Level 3 balances, 

which represent newly consolidated VIE assets, are reflected 

as 
transfers in for the following categories: securities 
available for sale, $829 million; loans, $366 million; and 

long
-term debt, $359 million.
  We transferred $
4.9
 billion of securities available for sale 
from Level 3 to Level 2 due to an increase in the vo
lume of 
trading activity for certain mortgage
-backed and other 
asset
-backed securities, which resulted in increased 
occurrences of observable market prices. We also 

transferred $
1.7 billion of 
debt 
securities available for sale 
from Level 2 to Level 3, pri
marily due to a decrease in 
liquidity for certain asset
-backed securities.
   For the 
year
 ended 
December 31, 2009
, we transferred 
$4.0
 billion of 
debt 
securities available for sale from Level 3 to 
Level 2 due to increased trading activity.
  Assets and Liab
ilities Recorded at Fair Value on a 
Nonrecurring Basis
 We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain 

assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with 

GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from 

application of 
LOCOM
 accounting or write
-downs of individual 
assets. For assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 

in 2010 and 2009 that were still held in the balance sheet at each 

respective year end, the following table provides the fair value 

hierarchy and the 
carrying value of the related individual assets 

or portfolios at year end.
                                          Carrying value at year end
 (in millions)
     Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
 December 31, 2010
           Mortgages held for sale 
(1)
 $  -   2,000
   891   2,891
  Loans held for sale
    -   352   -   352  Loans:
             Commercial
    -   2,480
   67   2,547
    Consumer
    -   5,870
   18   5,888
      Total loans 
(2)
    -   8,350
   85   8,435
  Mortgage servicing rights (amortized)
    -   -   104   104  Other assets 
(3)
    -   765   82   847                          December 31, 2009
           Mortgages held for sale (1)
 $  -   1,105
   711   1,816
  Loans held for sale
    -   444   -   444  Loans (2)
    -   6,177
   134   6,311
  Oth
er assets (3)
    -   289   119   408                                                  (1)
 Predominantly real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage loans
 measured at LOCOM
. (2)
 Represents carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value 
of the collateral. 
 (3)
 Includes
 the fair value of foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured at fair value subsequent to their init
ial classification as foreclosed assets.
 188    The following table 
presents the increase (decrease) in valu
e of 
certain assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring 
basis for which a fair value adjustment has been included in the 

income statement
.                    (in millions)
     Year ended December 31, 2010
     Mortgages held for sale 
 $  (2
0) Loans held for sale
    (1)
 Loans:
       Commercial
    (1,306)
   Consumer
    (6,881)
     Total loans 
(1)
    (8,187)
 Mortgage servicing rights (amortized)
    (3)
 Other assets 
(2)
    (301)
       Total
 $  (8,512)
                   Year ended Decem
ber 31, 2009
     Mortgages held for sale
 $  (22)
 Loans held for sale
    158  Loans (1)
    (11,703)
 Other assets (2)
    (217)
       Total
 $  (11,784)
                   (1)
 Represents write
-downs of loans based on the a
ppraised value of the collateral
. Prior year amount has been revised to conform with current period 
presentation.
 (2)
 Includes
 the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that 
were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as 
foreclosed assets.
 189 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
    Altern
ative Investments
 The following table summarizes our investments in various types 
of funds, which are included in trading assets, securities 

available for sale and other assets. We use the funds™ net asset 
values (NAVs) per share as a practical expedient t
o measure fair 
value on recurring and nonrecurring bases. The fair values 

presented in the table are based upon the funds™ NAVs or an 

equivalent measure.
                                                Redemption
                 Fair
 Unfunded
 Redemption
 notice
 (in millions)
   value
 commitments
 frequency
 period
 December 31, 2010
           Offshore funds 
 $  1,665
   -  Daily 
- Annually
 1 - 180 days
 Funds of funds
    63   -  Monthly 
- Quarterly
 10 - 90 days
 Hedge funds
    23   -  Monthly 
- Annually
 30 - 120 days
 Private equity funds 
    1,830
   669  N/A
 N/A
 Venture capital funds 
    88   36  N/A
 N/A
   Total
 $  3,669
   705      December 31, 2009
           Offshore funds (1) 
 $  1,559
   -  Daily 
- Quarterly
 1 - 90 days
 Funds of funds
    69   -  Month
ly 
- Annually
 10 - 120 days
 Hedge funds
    35   -  Monthly 
- Annually
 30 - 180 days
 Private equity funds 
    901   340  N/A
 N/A
 Venture capital funds
    93   47  N/A
 N/A
 Total
 $  2,657
   387                              N/A 
- Not applicable
 (1) ﬁFair
 valueﬂ
 has been revised to correct previously reported amount
.  Offshore funds primarily invest in investment grade 
European fixed
-income securities. Redemption restrictions are 
in place for investments with a fair value of $7
4 million
 and 
$76
 million at
 December 31, 2010 and 
2009, 
respectively, 
due to 
lock
-up provisions that will remain in effect until 
November
 2012. 
  Private equity funds invest in equity and debt securities 
issued by private and publicly
-held companies in connection 
with leveraged buyo
uts, recapitalizations and expansion 
opportunities. Substantially all of these investments do not allow 

redemptions. Alternatively, we receive distributions as the 

underlying assets of the funds liquidate, which we expect to 

occur over the next 10 years. 
   Venture capital funds invest in domestic and foreign 
companies in a variety of industries, including information 

technology, financial services and healthcare. These investments 

can never be redeemed with the funds. Instead, we receive 

distributions as 
the underlying assets of the fund liquidate, 

which we expect to occur over the next seven years.
 190    Fair Value Option
 We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS originations 
for which an active secondary market and readily available 

market 
prices exist to 
reliably support fair value pricing models 
used for these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are 

recorded when earned, and related
 direct loan origination costs 
are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value 

certain of our other inter
ests held related to residential loan 
sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for 

prime MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free
-
standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs,
 
measured at fair value
 reduces 
certain timing differences and 
better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes 

in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these 

assets.
  Upon the acquisition of Wachovia, we elected to measure at 
fair value certain portfolios 
of LHFS that we intend to hold for 
trading purposes and that may be economically h
edged with 
derivative instruments. In addition, we elected to measure at fair 

value certain letters of credit that are hedged with derivative 

instruments to better reflect th
e economics of the transactions. 
These letters of credit are included in trading account assets or 

liabilities.
  Upon the adoption of new consolidation guidance on January 
1, 2010, we elected to measure at fair value the eligible assets 

(loans) and liabili
ties (long
-term debt) of certain nonconforming 
mortgage loan securitization VIEs. We elected the fair value 

option for such newly consolidated VIEs to continue fair value 

accounting as our interests prior to consolidation were 

predominantly carried at fair
 value with changes in fair value 
recognized in earnings.
  The following table reflects the differences between fair value 
carrying amount of certain assets and liabilities for which we 

have elected the fair value option and the contractual aggregate 

unpai
d principal amount at maturity.
                                  Dec. 31, 2010
   Dec. 31, 2009
               Fair value
       Fair value
               carrying
       carrying
               amount
       amount
               less
       less
         Fair value
 Aggregate
 aggregate
   Fair value
 Aggregate
 aggregate
           carrying
 unpaid
 unpaid
   carrying
 unpaid
 unpaid
   (in millions)
   amount
 principal
 principal
   amount
 principal
 principal
   Mortgages held for sale:
                     Total loans
 $  47,531
   47,818
   (287)
 (1)
  36,962
   37,072
   (110)
 (1)
   Nonaccrual loans 
    325   662   (337)
    268   560   (292)
     Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing
    38   47   (9)
    49   63   (14)
   Loans held for sale:
                     Total loans
    873   897   (24)
    149   159   (10)
     Nonaccrual loans 
    1   7   (6)
    5   2   3    Loans:
                     Total loans
    309   348   (39)
    -   -   -      Nonaccrual loans 
    13   16   (3)
    -   -   -      Loans 90 days
 or more past due and still accruing
    2   2   -     -   -   -    Long
-term debt
    306   353   (47)
    -   -   -                                                    (1)
 The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal includes changes in fair value recorded at and subsequent to funding, gains and losses on 
the related loan commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans.
 191 Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued)
     The assets accounted for under the fair value option are 
initially measured at fair value. 
Gains and losses from initial 
measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are 

recognized in earnings. The changes in fair value related to 
initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value 

included in earnings for these assets measured at fair 
value are 

shown, by income statement line item, below.
                   2010
     2009    Mortgage banking
     Mortgage banking
     noninterest income
     noninterest income
     Net gains on mortgage
 Other 
   Net gains on mortgage
 Other 
   loan origi
nation/sales
 noninterest
   loan origination/sales
 noninterest
 (in millions)
    activities 
 income
    activities
 income
 Year ended December 31,
             Mortgages held for sale
 $  6,512
   -     4,891
   -  Loans held for sale
    -   24     -   99  Loans
    55   -     -   -  Long
-term debt
    (48)
  -     -   -  Other interests held
    -   (13)
    -   117                               The following table shows the estimated gains and losses 
from earnings attributable to instrument
-specific credit 
risk 
related to assets accounted for under the fair value option.
                      Year ended Dec. 31,
 (in millions)
    2010
   2009  Gains (losses) attributable to
         instrument
-specific credit risk:
         Mortgages held for sale
 $  (28)
  (277)
   Loans held for sale
    24   63      Total
 $  (4)
  (214)
              For performing loans, instrument
-specific credit risk gains or 
losses were derived principally by determining the change in fair 
value of the loans due to changes in the observ
able or implied 
credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less 

the relevant risk
-free benchmark interest rate. Since the second 
half of 2007, spreads have been significantly 
affe
cted by the lack 
of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. For 

nonperforming loans, we attribute all changes in fair value to 

instrument
-specific credit risk.
 192    Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
 The table below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial 
instruments, excl
uding short
-term financial assets and liabilities 
because carrying amounts approximate fair value, and excluding 

financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. 

The carrying amounts in the following table are recorded in the 

balance shee
t under the indicated captions.
 We have not included assets and liabilities that are not 
financial instruments in our disclosure, such as the value of the 

long
-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and trust 
customers, amortized MSRs, premises 
and equipment, goodwill 

and other intangibles, deferred taxes and other liabilities. The 

total of the fair value calculations presented does not represent, 

and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value 

of the Company.
                      December 31,
        2010
     2009        Carrying
 Estimated
   Carrying
 Estimated
 (in millions)
   amount
 fair value
   amount
 fair value
 Financial assets
               Mortgages held for sale (1)
 $  4,232
   4,234
     2,132
   2,132
    Loans held for s
ale (2)
    417   441     5,584
   5,719
    Loans, net (3)
    721,016
   710,147
     744,225
   717,798
    Nonmarketable equity investments (cost method)
    8,494
   8,814
     9,793
   9,889
  Financial liabilities
               Deposits
    847,942
   849,642
     824,018
   824,678
    Long
-term debt (3)(4)
    156,651
   159,996
     203,784
   205,752
                                  (1)
 Balance excludes 
MHFS
 for which the fair value option was elected.
 (2)
 Balance excludes 
LHFS
 for which the fair value option was elec
ted.
 (3)
 At December 31, 2010, loans and long
-term debt exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected. Loans exclude lease financing with a carrying amount 
of 
$13.1 billion and $14.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 (4)
 The carry
ing amount and fair value exclude obligations under capital leases of $26 million and $77 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
   Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit are not included in t
he table above.
 A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the 

carrying value of deferred
 fees plus the related allowance. 
This 
amounted 
to $673
 million and $725 million at 
December
 31,
 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  193    We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock 
and 4 million shares of preference stock, both without par value. 

Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares 

both as to dividends and liquidation preference but have
 no 
general voting rights. We have not issued any preference shares 

under this authorization. If issued, preference shares would be 

limited to one vote per share. Our total issued and outstanding 
preferred stock includes Dividend Equalization Preference 

(DEP) shares and Series J, K and L, which are presented in 
the 

table below, and 
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (
ESOP
) Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, which is presented in 

the 
table on 
the 
following page.
  Note 17:  Prefer
red Stock
                                                        December 31, 2010 and 2009
                 Liquidation
   Shares
               preference
 Shares
 issued and
       Carrying
   (in millions, except shares and liquidation preference per share)
   per share
 authorized
 outstanding
     Par value
 val
ue Discount
 DEP Shares
                   Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares
 $  10   97,000
   96,546
    $  -   -   -                                  Series J 
(1)
                   8.00% Non
-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
    1,000
   2,300,000
   2,150,375
       2,150
   1,995
   155                                  Series K 
(1)
                   7.98% Fixed
-to-Floating Non
-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred 
Stock
    1,000
   3,500,000
   3,352,000
       3,352
   2,876
   476                                  Series L 
(1)
                   7.50% Non
-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock
    1,000
   4,025,000
   3,968,000
       3,968
   3,200
   768    Total
      9,922,000
   9,566,921
    $  9,470
   8,071
   1,399
                                  (1)
 Preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital.
            In addition to the preferred stock issued and outstanding 
described in the table above, at December 31, 2010, we have the 

following preferred stock authorized with no shares
 issued and 
outstanding:
  Series A 
Œ Non
-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, 
Series A, $100,000 liquidation preference per share, 

25,001
 shares authorized
  Series B 
Œ Non
-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, 
Series B, $100,000 liquidation preference per s
hare, 17,501 
shares authorized
  Series G 
Œ 7.25% Class A Preferred Stock, Series G, 
$15,000
 liquidation preference per share, 50,000 shares 
authorized
  Series H 
Œ Floating Class A Preferred Stock, Series H, 
$20,000 liquidation preference per share, 50,000 sh
ares 
authorized
  Series I 
Œ 5.80% Fixed to Floating Class A Preferred Stock, 
Series I, $100,000 liquidation preference per share, 

25,010
 shares authorized
    We may
 issue preferred stock for Series A ($2.5 billion in 
March 2013), Series B ($1.8 billion in September 2013), and 

Series I ($2.5 billion in March 2011) to unconsolidated wholly
-owned trusts. The issuance of the preferred stock is contingent 

upon the sale of our income trust securities held by these trusts 

to third party investors. See Note 8 for a
dditional information on 
our trust preferred security structures and Note 13 for 

information about our income trust notes. We have no 

commitment
 to issue Series G or
 H preferred stock. 
  In December 2009, we r
edeemed the Series D Preferred 
Stock
, which had
 been issued in October 2008 to the United 
Stat
es Department of the Treasury. We paid $25.
0 billion, which 
was equal to the liquidation preference of the stock
. In 
connection with the redemption, we fully accreted the remaining 

discount at the ti
me of rede
mption of $1.9 billion.
 194      ESOP CUMULATIVE CONV
ERTIBLE PREFERRED ST
OCK
  All 
shares of our ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock 
(ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf 

of the Wells
 Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan)
. 
Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the 

date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at annual rates 

based upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred 

Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan 
is 

converted into shares of our common stock based on the stated 
value of the ESOP Preferred Stock and the then current market 

price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also 

convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless 

previousl
y redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP 
Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption 

price per share equal to the higher of (a) $1,000 per share plus 

accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair market value, as 

defined in th
e Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred 
Stock. 
                                                  Shares issued and outstanding
     Carrying value
   Adjustable 
               December 31,
     December 31,
   dividend rate
 (in millions, excep
t shares)
 2010
 2009     2010
 2009   Minimum
 Maximum
 ESOP Preferred Stock 
                     $1,000 liquidation preference per share
                       2010          287,161
   -    $  287   -     9.50
  %  10.50
    2008          104,854
   120,289
       105   120     10.50
     11.50
    2007          82,994
   97,624
       83   98     10.75
     11.75
    2006          58,632
   71,322
       59   71     10.75
     11.75
    2005          40,892
   51,687
       41   52     9.75
     10.75
    2004          26,815
   36,425
       27   37     8.50
     9.50
    2003          13,591
   21,450
       13   21     8.50
     9.50
    2002          3,443
   11,949
       3   12     10.50
     11.50
    2001          -   3,273
       -   3     10.50
     11.50
  Total ESOP Pref
erred Stock (1)
  618,382
   414,019
    $  618   414          Unearned ESOP shares (2)
       $  (663)
  (442)
                                                                             (1)
 At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, additional paid
-in capita
l included $45 million and $28 million, respectively, related to preferred stock.
  (2)
 We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The u
nearned ESOP shares are reduced as 
shares of the
 ESOP Preferred Stock are committed to be released. 
  195     Common Stock
 Note 18:  Common Stock and Stock Plans
  The following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized 
shares of common stock at December 31, 2010.
              Number of shares
 Divid
end reinvestment and 
     common stock purchase plans
  8,791,078
  Director plans
  837,516
  Stock plans (1)
  667,226,530
  Convertible securities and warrants
  105,279,949
    Total shares reserved
  782,135,073
  Shares issued
  5,272,414,622
  Shares not
 reserved
  2,945,450,305
    Total shares authorized
  9,000,000,000
          (1)
 Includes employee option
s, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), 
profit sharing and compensation deferral plans.
  At December 31, 2010, we have warrants outstan
ding and 
exercisable to purchase 39,444,481 shares of our common stock 

with an exercise price of $34.01 per share, expiring on October 

28,
 2018. These warrants were issued in connection with our 
participat
ion in the 
TARP
 CPP
.  Dividend Reinvestment and Com
mon Stock 
Purchase Plans
 Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock 

direct purchase plans may purchase shares of our common stock 

at fair market value by reinvesting dividends and/or making 

optional cash payments, under the plan's terms.
  Employee Stock Plans
 We offer the stock based employee compensation plans 

described below. We measure the cost of employee services 

received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as 

stock options, restricted share rights (RSRs) or performance
 shares, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. 

The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over 

the vesting period of the award; awards with graded vesting are 

expensed on a straight line method. Awards that continue to vest 

after retirement are expensed over the shorter of the period of 
time between the grant date and the final vesting period or 

between the grant date and when a team member becomes 

retirement eligible; awards to team members who are retirement 

eligible at the grant date are subject to immediate expensing 

upon grant. 
  LONG
-TERM INCENTIVE COMPE
NSATION PLANS
 Our Long 
Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides for awards 

of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation 

rights, restricted shar
es, RSRs, performance share awards and 
stock awards without restrictions.
  During 2010 we granted RSRs and performance shares as our 
primary long
-term incentive awards instead of stock options. 
Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of common 

stock at no cost generally over three to five years after the RSRs 
were granted. Holders of RSRs may be entitled to receive 
additional RSRs (dividend equivalents) or cash payments equal 

to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the RSRs 

been issue
d and outstanding shares of common stock. RSRs 

granted as dividend equivalents are subject to the same vesting 

schedule and conditions as the underlying RSRs.
 RSRs generally 
continue to vest after retirement according to the original vesting 

schedule. Exce
pt in limited circumstances, RSRs are cancelled 
when employment ends.
  A target number of 1,602,336 and 949,000 performance 
shares were granted in 2010 and 2009, respectively, with a fair 

value of $27.46 per share and $27.09 per share, respectively. 

The fi
nal number of performance shares that will vest is subject 
to the achievement of specified performance criteria over a 

three
-year period ending June 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 
for the 2010 and 2009 awards, respectively, and has a cap of 

150% of the ta
rget number of performance shares. Holders of 
each vested performance share are entitled to the related shares 

of common stock at no cost. Performance shares continue to vest 

after retirement according to the original vesting schedule 

subject to satisfying
 the performance criteria and other vesting 
conditions. 
As of December 31, 2010, no performance shares 
were forfeited or vested and unrecognized compensation cost for 

unvested performance shares was $18 million and is expected to 

be recognized over a weigh
ted
-average period of 2.2 year
s.  Stock options must have an exercise price at or above fair 
market value (as defined in the plan) of the stock at the date of 

grant (except for substitute or replacement options granted in 

connection with mergers or other a
cquisitions) and a term of no 
more than 10 years. Except for options granted in 2004 and 

2005, which generally vested in full upon grant, options 

generally become exercisable over three years beginning on the 

first anniversary of the date of grant. Except 
as otherwise 

permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons 

other than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option 

exercise period is reduced or the options are cancelled.
  Options granted prior to 2004 may include the right to 
acqu
ire a ﬁreloadﬂ stock option. If an option contains the reload 
feature and if a participant pays all or part of the exercise price 

of the option with shares of stock purchased in the market or 

held by the participant for at least six months and, in either c
ase, 
not used in a similar transaction in the last six months, upon 

exercise of the option, the participant is granted a new option to 

purchase at the fair market value of the stock as of the date of the 

reload, the number of shares of stock equal to the s
um of the 
number of shares used in payment of the exercise price and a 

number of shares with respect to related statutory minimum 

withholding taxes. Reload grants are fully vested upon grant and 

are expensed immediately.
  Compensation expense for RSRs and performance shares is 
based on the quoted market price of the related stock at the 

grant date. Stock option expense is based on the fair value of the 

awards at the date of grant. The following table summarizes the 

major components of stock incentive compen
sation expense and 
the related recognized tax benefit.
 196                                                     Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
   2010
 2009 2008 RSRs
 $  252   3   3  Performance shares
    66   21   -  Stock options
    118   221   174    Total stock incentive compensation
              expense
 $  436   245   177  Related recognized tax benefit
 $  165   92   65                                       A portion of annual bonus awards recognized during 2009 
that are normally paid in cash
 was paid in our common stock as 
part of our agreement with the U.S. Treasury to repay our 
participation in the TARP CPP. The fair value of the stock that 

was issued was $94 million and there were no vesting conditions 

or other restrictions on the stock. N
o annual bonus awards 
recognized during 2010 were paid in common stock.
  During 2009 the Board of Directors approved salary 
increases for certain executive officers that were paid, after taxes 

and other withholdings, in our common stock. In 2010 and 

2009, 
respectively, 62,630 shares and 244,689 shares were 
issued for salary increases at an average fair value of $27.44 and 

$27.77, respectively. There are no restrictions on these shares 

because we repaid the TARP CPP investment in Wells
 Fargo in 
December 2009
. No salary increases were paid in common stock 
after February 2010.
  For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee 
and director stock options of acquired or merged companies into 

stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms 

of the original stock option plan and the agreed
-upon exchange 
ratio. In addition, we converted restricted stock awards into 

awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting 

conditions are met. Holders receive cash dividends on 

outstanding awards
 if provided in the original award.
  The total number of shares of common stock available for 
grant under the plans at December 31, 2010, was 255
 million.
  PARTNERSHARES
 PLAN
  In 1996, we adopted the 
PartnerShares
® Stock Option Plan, a broad
-based employee
 stock option plan. It covers full
- and part
-time employees who 
generally were not included in the LTICP described above. No 

options have been granted under the plan since 2002, and as a 

result of action taken by the Board of Directors on 

January
 22, 2008,
 no future awards will be granted under the 
plan. All of our 
PartnerShares
 Plan grants were fully vested as of 
December 31, 2007.
  Director Plan
 We grant common stock and options to purchase common stock 

to non
-employee directors elected or re
-elected at t
he annual 
meeting of stockholders and prorated awards to directors who 

join the Board at any other time. The stock award vests 

immediately. Options granted in 2008 or earlier can be 

exercised after six months through the tenth anniversary of the 

grant date
. Options granted prior to 2005 may include the right 
to acquire a ﬁreloadﬂ stock option. Prior to 2009, stock awards 

and option grants were made to non
-employee directors under 
the Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan. As a result 

of action take
n by the Board of Directors on September 30, 
2008, stock awards and options granted in 2010 and 2009 were 

made under our LTICP; options granted to directors under the 

LTICP can be exercised after 12 months through the tenth 

anniversary of the grant date.
  Restricted Share Rights
 A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards 

at December 31, 2010, and changes during 2010 is in the 

following table:
                                  Weighted
-               average
               grant
-date
           Number
   fair value
 Nonvested at January 1, 2010
  1,908,955
    $  23.62
  Granted
  22,364,160
       27.29
  Vested
  (568,417)
      27.21
  Canceled or forfeited
  (667,976)
      27.59
  Nonvested at December 31, 2010
  23,036,722
       26.98
                      The weighted
-average grant date fair value of RSRs granted 
during 2009 and 2008 was $19.04 and $29.68, respectively.
  At December 31, 2010, there was $3
63 million of total 
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSRs. The 

cost 
is expected to be recognized over a weighted
-average period 
of 4.0 years. The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2010, 

2009 and 2008 wa
s $15 million, $2 million and $
1 million, 
respectively.
  Stock Options
 The table below summarizes stock option a
ctivity and related 
information for the employee stock plans and the director plan. 

Options assumed in mergers are included in the activity and 

related information for Incentive Compensation Plans if 

originally issued under an employee plan, and in the act
ivity and 
related information for Director Plans if originally issued under 

a director plan.
 197 Note 18:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
(continued)
                                                Weighted
-                       Weighted
- average
     Aggregate
                 average
 remaining
     intrinsic
                 exercise
 contractual
     value
             Number
   price
 term (in yrs.)
     (in millions)
 Incentive compensation plans
               Options outstanding as of December 31, 2009
  344,371,676
  $  37.11
            Granted
    1,841,989
     30.88
            Canceled or forfeited
  (13,129,540)
    48.24
            Exercised
  (26,313,334)
    19.44
          Options outstanding as of December 31, 2010
  306,770,791
     38.11
   5.1
    $  1,514
  As of December 31, 2010:
                 Options ex
ercisable and expected to be exercisable (1)
  306,278,488
     38.12
   5.1
       1,514
    Options exercisable
  238,094,894
     43.85
   4.3
       625                            PartnerShares Plan
               Options outstanding as of December 31, 2009
  16,865,597
     24.33
            Canceled or forfeited
  (964,242)
    23.48
            Exercised
  (7,426,810)
    23.44
          Options outstanding as of December 31, 2010
  8,474,545
     25.21
   1.2
       49  As of December 31, 2010:
                 Options exercisable and expected to be exercisable
  8,474,545
     25.21
   1.2
       49    Options exercisable
  8,474,545
     25.21
   1.2
       49                            Director plans
               Options outstanding as of December 31, 2009
  853,633
     28.53
            Granted
    24,684
     30.43
            Canceled or forfeited
  (2,431)
    30.86
            Exercised
  (78,022)
    23.18
          Options outstanding as of December 31, 2010
  797,864
     29.10
   4.2
       2  As of December 31, 2010
:                 Options exercisable and expected to be exercisable
  797,864
     29.10
   4.2
       2    Options exercisable
  797,864
     29.10
   4.2
       2                                                      (1) 
 Adjusted for estimated forfeitures.
 198     As of December 31, 2010, there was $71
 million of 
unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options. That 
cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted
-average period 
of 1.1 years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 

2010, 20
09 and 2008 was $298 million, $50 million and 
$348
 million, respectively.
  Cash received from the exercise of 
stock 
options
 for 2010, 
2009 and 2008 was $687 million, $153 million and 

$747
 million, respectively.
  We do not have a specific policy on repurcha
sing shares to 
satisfy share option exercises. Rather, we have a general policy 

on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance 

requirements for our benefit plans (including share option 

exercises), conversion of our convertible securities, acquisitio
ns 
and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the 

amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our 

capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for 

acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions 

(including
 the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and 

legal considerations. These factors can change at any time, and 

there can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will 

repurchase or when we will repurchase them.
  The fair value of each option awa
rd granted on or after 
January 1, 2006, is estimated using a Black
-Scholes valuation 
model. The expected term of non
-reload options granted is 
generally based on the historical exercise behaviour of full
-term 
options. Our expected volatilities are based on
 a combination of 
the historical volatility of our common stock and implied 

volatilities for traded options on our common stock. The risk
-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero
-coupon yield curve in 
effect at the time of grant. Both expected volatili
ty and the risk
-free rates are based on a period commensurate with our 

expected term. For 2010 and 2009, the expected dividend is 

based on a fixed dividend amount. For 2008 the expected 

dividend was based on the current dividend, consideration of our 
 his
torical pattern of dividend increases and the market price of 
our stock. We changed our method of estimating the expected 

dividend assumption from a yield approach to a fixed amount 

due to our participation in the TARP CPP during 2009, which 

restricted us 
from increasing our dividend without approval 

from the U.S. Treasury; although we repaid TARP in 2009, 

federal approval continues to be required under FRB 

Supervisory Letter 09
-4, before
 we can increase our dividend. A 
dividend yield approach models a cons
tant dividend yield, which 

was considered inappropriate given the restriction on our ability 

to increase dividends. See Note 3.
  The following table presents the weighted
-average per share 
fair value of options granted and the assumptions used, based on 

a Black
-Scholes option valuation model. Substantially all of the 
options granted in 2010 resulted from the reload feature.
                          Year ended December 31,
         2010
   2009 2008 Per share fair value of options granted
 $  6.11
     3.29
   4.06
  Expected volatility
    44.3
  %  53.9
   22.4
  Expected dividends (yield)
    -     -   4.1
  Expected dividends
 $  0.20
     0.33
   -  Expected term (in years)
    1.3
     4.5
   4.4
  Risk
-free interest rate
    0.6
  %  1.8
   2.7
                                  199 Note 18:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
(continued)
     Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
 The Wells
 Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a 
defined contribution plan with an Employee Stock Ownership 
Plan (ESOP) feature. Effective December 31, 2009, the Wachovia 

Savings Plan, which also had 
an ESOP feature, merged into the 

401(k) Plan, and all of its shares of our common stock were 

transferred to the 401(k) Plan. The ESOP feature enables the 

401(k) Plan to borrow money to purchase our preferred or 

common stock. From 1994 through 2008, and in 
2010, we 

loaned money to the 401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP 

Preferred Stock. As our employer contributions are made to the 

401(k) Plan and are used by the Plan to make ESOP loan 

payments, the ESOP Preferred Stock in the 401(k) Plan is 

released 
and converted into our common shares. Dividends on 
the common shares allocated as a result of the release and 

conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock reduce retained 
earnings and the shares are considered outstanding for 

computing earnings per share. Divide
nds on the unallocated 

ESOP Preferred Stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the 

shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for 

computing earnings per share. Loan principal and interest 

payments are made from our employer contributions to
 the 
401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP Preferred 

Stock. With each principal and interest payment, a portion of the 

ESOP Preferred Stock is released and converted to common 

shares, which are allocated to the 401(k) Plan participants and 

inv
ested in the 401(k) Plan™s ESOP Fund.
  The balance of common stock held in the ESOP fund, the 
dividends on allocated shares of common stock and unreleased 

ESOP Preferred Stock paid to the 401(k) Plan and the fair value 

of unreleased ESOP Preferred Stock we
re:
                        Shares outstanding
         December 31,
 (in millions, except shares)
   2010
 2009 2008 Allocated shares (common)
    118,901,327
   110,157,999
   74,916,583
  Unreleased shares (preferred)
    618,382
   414,019
   519,900
  Unrel
eased shares (common)
    -   203,755
   244,506
  Fair value of unreleased ESOP Preferred shares
 $  618   414   520  Fair value of unreleased ESOP Common shares
    -   5   7                                      Dividends paid
         Year ended Decembe
r 31,
         2010
 2009 2008 Allocated shares (common)
 $  23   45   100  Unreleased shares (preferred)
    76   51   66                              Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Sales 
Agents
 WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a 
wholly
-owned 
subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to sponsor a deferred 
compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide 

investment, financial and other qualifying services for or with 

respect to participating affiliates.
 The Nonqualified Defe
rred Compensation Plan for 
Independent Contractors, which became effective 

January
 1, 2002, allows participants to defer all or part of their 
eligible compensation payable to them by a participating 

affiliate. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guara
nteed 
the deferred compensation obligations of WF Deferred 

Compensation Holdings, Inc. under the plan.
 200     Pension and Postretirement Plans
 Note 
19:  Employee Benefits 
and Other Expenses
  We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined benefit 
retirement plan
, the Wells
 Fargo & Company Cash Balance Plan 
(Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of 

Wells
 Fargo; the benefits earned under the Cash Balance Plan 
were frozen effective July 1, 2009.
  On April 28, 2009, the Board of Directors approved 
amend
ments to freeze the benefits earned under the Wells
 Fargo 
qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the 

Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan, a cash balance plan that 

covered eligible employees of the legacy Wachovia Corporation, 

and to merge the Wach
ovia Pension Plan into the qualified Cash 
Balance Plan. These actions became effective on July 1, 2009.
  Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees' cash balance plan 
accounts were allocated a compensation credit based on a 

percentage of their qualifying co
mpensation. The compensation 
credit percentage was based on age and years of credited service. 

The freeze discontinues the allocation of compensation credit for 

services after June 30, 2009. Investment credits continue to be 

allocated to participants based
 on their accumulated balances. 
Employees become vested in their Cash Balance Plan accounts 

after completing three years of vesting service.
  Freezing and merging the above plans effective July 1, 2009, 
resulted in a re
-measurement of the pension obligatio
ns and 
plan assets as of April 30, 2009. Freezing and re
-measuring 
decreased the pension obligations by approximately 

$945
 million and decreased 
a cumulati
ve loss in OCI by 
approximately $725
 million pre tax ($456
 million after tax) in 
second quarter 2009.
 The re
-measurement resulted in a 
decrease in the fair value of plan assets of approximately 

$150
 million. We used a discount rate of 7.75% for the 
April
 30,
 2009, re
-measurement based on our consistent 
methodology of determining our discount rate based on
 an 
established yield curve developed by our outside actuarial firm. 

This methodology incorporates a broad group of top quartile Aa 

or higher rated bonds.
   As a result of freezing our pension plans, we revised our 
amortization life for actuarial gains an
d losses from 5 years to 13 
years to reflect the estimated average remaining participation 

period.
  These actions lowered pension cost by approximately 
$500
 million for 2009, including $67
 million of one
-time 
curtailment gains.
  We did not make a contribut
ion to our Cash Balance Plan in 
2010. We do not expect that we will be required to make a 

contribution to the Cash Balance Plan in 2011; however, this is 

dependent on the finalization of the actuarial valuation. Our 

decision of whether to make a contributi
on in 2011 will be based 
on various factors including the actual investment performance 

of plan assets during 2011. Given these uncertainties, we cannot 

estimate at this time the amount, if any, that we will contribute 

in 2011 to the Cash Balance Plan. For
 the nonqualified pension 
plans and postretirement benefit plans, there is no minimum 

required contribution beyond the amount needed to fund benefit 

payments; we may contribute more to our postretirement benefit 

plans dependent on various factors.
  We prov
ide health care and life insurance benefits for certain 
retired employees and reserve the right to terminate, modify or 

amend any of the benefits at any time.
  The information set forth in the following tables is based on 
current actuarial reports using th
e measurement date of 
December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.
 201 Note 1
9:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses
 (continued)
    The changes in the projected benefit obligation of pension 
benefits and the accumulated benefit obligation of other benefits 
and the fair value of plan assets, the funded 
status and the 
amounts recognized in the balance sheet were:
                                        December 31,
              2010
     2009              Pension benefits
     Pension benefits
                 Non
- Other
     Non
- Other
 (in millions)
 Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
   Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
 Change in benefit obligation:
         Benefit obligation at beginning of year
 $  10,038
   681   1,401
     8,977
   684   1,325
    Service cost 
    5   -   13     210   8   13    Interest cost 
    554   37   78     595   43   83    Plan participants™ contributions 
    -   -   74     -   -   79    Curtailment (1)
    -   -   -     (910)
  (35)
  -    Amendments 
    2   -   -     -   -   (54)
   Actuarial loss (gain) 
    386   46   (5)
    1,763
   59   120    Benefits paid 
    (652)
  (71)
  (147)
    (605)
  (79)
  (167)
   Liability transfer
    -   -   (17)
    -   -   -    Foreign exchange impact 
    4   -   1     8   1   2  Benefit obligation at end of year
    10,337
   693   1,398
     10,038
   681   1,401  Change in plan assets:
                 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
    9,112
   -   376     7,863
   -   368    Actual return on plan assets 
    1,163
   -   33     1,842
   -   48    Employer contribution 
    12   71   361     4   79   48    Plan participants™ contributions 
    -   -   74     -   -   79    Benefits paid
    (652)
  (71)
  (147)
    (605)
  (79)
  (167)
   Foreign exchange impact 
    4   -   -     8   -   -      Fair value of plan assets at end of year
    9,639
   -   697     9,112
   -   376  Funded status at end of year
 $  (698)
  (693)
  (701)
    (926)
  (681)
  (1,025)
 Amounts recognized in the balance sheet at end of year:
                   Liabilities
 $  (698)
  (693)
  (701)
    (926)
  (681)
  (1,025)
                           (1)
 On April 28, 2009, the Board of Directors approved amendments to freeze the benefits earned under the Wells Fargo qualified a
nd supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the 
Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan, a cash balance plan that covered eligible
 employees of legacy Wachovia Corporation, and to merge the Wachovia Pension Plan into the 
qualified Cash Balance Plan.
 The accumulated benefit obligation for the defin
ed benefit 
pension plans was $11.0
 billion
 and $10.7
 billion
 at 
December
 31, 2010 and 2
009, respectively.
 The 
following 
table provides information for pension plans 
with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.
                      December 31,
 (in millions)
   2010
 2009 Projected benefit obligation
 $  11,030
   10,719
  Accumulated be
nefit obligation
    11,019
   10,706
  Fair value of plan assets
    9,639
   9,112
              202     The components of net periodic benefit cost were:
                                               December 31,
              2010
     2009     2008              Pension benefits
     Pension benefits
     Pension benefits
                 Non
- Other
     Non
- Other
     Non
- Other
 (in millions)
   Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
   Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
   Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
 Service cost
 $  5   -   13     210   8   13     291   15   13  Interest cost
    554   37   78     595   43   83     276   22   40  Expected return on plan assets
    (717)
  -   (29)
    (643)
  -   (29)
    (478)
  -   (41)
 Amortization of net actuarial loss
    105   3   1     194   2   3     1   13   1  Amortization of prior service cost
    -   -   (4)
    -   (1)
  (3)
    -   (5)
  (4)
 Curtailment loss (gain)
    3   -   (4)
    (32)
  (33)
  -     -   -   -    Net periodic benefit cost
    (50)
  40   55     324   19   67     90   45   9  Other changes in plan assets
                           and benefit obligations
                           recognized in other
                           comprehensive income:
                       Net actuarial loss (gain) 
    (59)
  46   (9)
    (346)
  25   99     2,102
   (16)
  79  Amortization of net actuarial loss
    (105)
  (3)
  (1)
    (194)
  (2)
  (3)
    (1)
  (13)
  (1)
 Prior service cost 
    2   -   -     -   -   -     -   -   -  Amortization of prior service cost
    -   -   4     -   1   3     -   5   4  Net loss (gain) in curtailment
    (3)
  -   4     32   33   -     -   -   -  Net gain on amendment
    -   -   -     -   -   (54)
    -   -   -  Translation adjustments 
    -   -   -     3   -   2     (5)
  -   (4)
 Total recognized in other
                           comprehensive income
    (165)
  43   (2)
    (505)
  57   47     2,096
   (24)
  78  Total recognized in net periodic
                           benefit cost and other
                           comprehensive income
 $  (215)
  83   53     (18
1)  76   114     2,186
   21   87  203 Note 19:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued)
      Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI (pre tax) consist of: 
                                    December 31,
            2010
     2009            Pension benefits
     Pension benefits
               Non
- Other
     Non- Other
 (in millions)
   Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
   Qualified
 qualified
 benefits
 Net actuarial loss
 $  1,672
   113   135     1,836
   70   140  Net prior service credit
    -   -   (30)
    1   -   (34)
 Net transition obligation
    -   -   1     -   -   2  Translation adjustments
    1   -   -     1   -   -    Total
 $  1,673
   113   106     1,838
   70   108   We generally amortize net actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 
5% corridor from accumulated OCI into net periodic pension 
cost over the next 
13 years. 
The net actuarial loss for the defined 
benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated 

OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2011 is $92
 million. The net 
prior service credit for the other post retirement plans that will 

be amortize
d from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit 
cost in 2011 is $3
 million.
   Plan Assumptions
 The weighted
-average discount rate used to determine the 
projected benefit obligation for pension benefits (qualified and 

nonqualified) and other postretiremen
t benefits was
 5.25% and 
5.75% for year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively
. We use a consistent methodology to determine the discount rate 

that is based on an established yield curve methodology. This 

methodology incorporates a broad group of t
op quartile Aa or 
higher rated bonds consisting of approximately 100
-150 bonds. 
The discount rate is determined by matching this yield curve 

with the timing and amounts of the expected benefit payments 

for our plans.
  The weighted
-average assumptions used
 to determine the net periodic benefit cost were:
         
                           December 31,
       2010
   2009   2008       Pension 
   Other
   Pension
   Other
   Pension
   Other
       benefits 
(1)
   benefits
   benefits (1)
   benefits
   benefits (1)
   benefits
 Discount rate (2)
  5.75
   %  5.75
     7.42
     6.75
     6.25
     6.25
  Expected return on plan assets
  8.25
      8.25
     8.75
     8.75
     8.75
     8.75
  Rate of compensation increase
  -      -     4.0
     -     4.0
     -          
                             
                     (1)
 Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits.
 (2)
 Due to the freeze of the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan,
 the discount rate f
or the 2009 pension 
benefits was the weighted average of 6.75% from January through April and 7.75% from May through December.
   Our determination of the reasonableness of our expected 
long
-term rate of return on plan assets is highly quantitative by 
natu
re. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected 
returns under two sets of conditions: projected returns using 

several forward
-looking capital market assumptions, and 
historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970, 

the earliest
 period for which historical data was readily available 
as of a common time frame for the asset classes included. Using 

data dating back to 1970 allows us to capture multiple economic 

environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical 

returns
. We place greater emphasis on the 
forward
-looking
 return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use 

the resulting projections to derive a base line expected rate of 

return and risk level for the Cash Balance Plans' prescribed asset 

mix. We th
en adjust the baseline projected returns for items not 
already captured, including the anticipated return differential 

from active over passive investment management and the 
estimated impact of an asset allocation methodology that allows 

for established de
viations from the specified target allocations 
when a compelling opportunity exists.
  We evaluate the portfolio based on: (1) the established target 
asset allocations over short term (one
-year) and longer term 
(ten
-year) investment horizons, and (2) the ra
nge of potential 
outcomes over these horizons within specific standard 

deviations. We perform the above analyses to assess the 

reasonableness of our expected long
-term rate of return on plan 
assets. We consider the expected rate of return to be a long
-term
 average view of expected returns. The expected rate of return 

would be assessed for significant long
-term changes in economic 
conditions or in planned portfolio composition.
  To account for postretirement health care plans we use 
health care cost trend ra
tes to recognize the effect of expected 
changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation, 

utilization changes, new technology, regulatory requirements 
204    and Medicare cost shifting. In determining the end of year 
benefit obligation we assume avera
ge annual increases of 
approximately 8.0% for health care costs in 2011. This rate is
 assumed to trend down 0.25% per year until the trend rate 

reaches an ultimate rate of 5.0% in 2023. The 2010 periodic 

benefit cost was determined using initial annual tre
nd rates of 
8.5% (before age 65) and 8.0% (after age 65). These rates were 

assumed to decrease 0.5% per year until they reached ultimate 

rates of 5% in 2017 (before age 65) and 2016 (after age 65). 

Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage
 
point in each year would increase the benefit obligation as of 

December 31, 2010, by $80
 million and the total of the interest 
cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost 

for 2010 by $5
 million. Decreasing the assumed health care 
tre
nd by one percentage point in each year would decrease the 
benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010, by $71
 million
 and 
the total of the interest cost and service cost components of the 

net periodic benefit cost for 2010 by $4
 million.
  Investment Strate
gy and Asset Allocation
 We seek to achieve the expected long
-term rate of return with a 
prudent level of risk given the benefit obligations of the pension 

plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy is 

designed to provide our Cash Balanc
e Plan with a balance of 
long
-term growth opportunities and short
-term benefit 
strategies while ensuring that risk is mitigated through 

diversification across numerous asset classes and various 

investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for our 
Cash 
Balance Plan at a target mix range of 35
-65% equities, 30
-50% 
fixed income, and approximately 10
-15% in real estate, venture 
capital, private equity and other investments. The target ranges 

referenced above account for the employment of an asset 

alloc
ation methodology designed to overweight stocks or bonds 
when a compelling opportunity exists. The Employee Benefit 

Review Committee (EBRC), which includes several members of 

senior management, formally reviews the investment risk and 

performance of our Ca
sh Balance Plan on a quarterly basis. 
Annual Plan liability analysis and periodic asset/liability 

evaluations are also conducted.
   The investment strategy for assets held in the Retiree Medical 
Plan Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (VEBA) tru
st 
is established separately from the strategy for the assets in the 

Cash Balance Plan. The general target asset mix is 45
-65% 
equities and 35
-55% fixed income. In addition, the strategy for 
the VEBA trust assets considers the effect of income taxes by 

uti
lizing a combination of variable annuity and low turnover 
investment strategies. Members of the EBRC formally review the 

investment risk and performance of these assets on a quarterly 

basis.
  Projected Benefit Payments
 Future benefits that we expect to pay
 under the pension and 
other benefit plans are presented in the following table. Other 

benefits payments are expected to be reduced by prescription 

drug subsidies from the federal government provided by the 

Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Moder
nization 
Act of 2003.
                        Pension benefits
   Other benefits
         Non
-   Future
 Subsidy
 (in millions)
 Qualified
 qualified
   benefits
 receipts
 Year ended
             December 31,
         2011 $  867   77     107   13  2012    846   68     110   14  2013    813   64     113   15  2014    807   63     116   16  2015    801   58     119   10  2016-2020    3,682
   293     602   51                  205 Note 19:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued)
     Fair Value 
of Plan Assets
 The following table presents the balances of pension p
lan assets 
and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value. Other 
benefit plan assets include assets held in a 401(h) trust, which 
are invested using the same asset allocation targets as the Cash 

Balance Plan, and assets held in a VEBA t
rust. See Note
 16 for 
fair value hierarchy level definitions.
             
                                    Carrying value at year end
              Pension plan assets
   Other benefits plan assets
 (in millions) 
   Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
   Total
   Level 1
 Level 2
 Level 3
 Total
 December 31, 2010
                        Cash and cash equivalents
  $  47   488   -     535     2   252   -   254  Intermediate (core) fixed income 
(1)
    297   1,964
   10     2,271
     10   109   -   119  High
-yield fixed income
     1   406   1     408     -   14   -   14  International fixed income
     -   263   -     263     -   8   -   8  Specialty fixed income
     -   95   -     95     -   3   -   3  Domestic large
-cap stocks 
(2)
    1,323
   867   4     2,194
     43   40   -   83  Domestic mid
-cap stocks 
     263   129   -     392     9   20   -   29  Domestic small
-cap stocks 
(3)
    851   37   -     888     28   20   -   48  International stocks 
(4)
    948   403   6     1,357
     31   46   -   77  Emerging market stocks
     -   700   -     700     -   23   -   23  Real estate/timber 
(5)
    105   -   360     465     3   -   12   15  Multi
-strategy hedge funds 
(6)
    -   -   313     313     -   -   10   10  Private equity
     -   -   112     112     -   -   4   4  Other
     -   31   41     72     -   2   22   24    Total plan investments
  $  3,835
   5,383
   847     10,065
     126   537   48   711  Payable upon return of securities loaned
             (145)
          (5)
 Net receivables (payables)
             (281)
          (9)
     Total plan assets
          $  9,639
           697  December 31, 2009 
                       Cash and cash equivalents 
 $  52   515   -     567     2   38   -   40  Intermediate (core) fixed income (1) 
    277   1,827
   9     2,113
     9   95   -   104  High
-yield fixed income 
    2   481   -     483     -   12   -   12  International fixed income 
    -   376   -     376     -   3   -   3  Specialty fixed income 
    -   76   -     76     -   2   -   2  Domestic large
-cap stocks (2) 
    1,046
   630   5     1,681
     40   30   -   70  Domestic mid
-cap stocks  
    205   103   -     308     7   16   -   23  Domestic small
-cap stocks (3) 
    867   126   -     993     18   16   -   34  International stocks (4) 
    354   890   1     1,245
     11   39   -   50  Emerging market stocks 
    -   653   -     653     -   14   -   14  Real estate/timber (5) 
    78   -   353     431     2   -   4   6  Multi
-strategy hedge funds (6) 
    -   -   339     339     -   -   5   5  Private equity 
    -   1   83     84     -   -   2   2  Other 
    -   25   46     71     -   -   21   21    Total plan investments 
 $  2,881
   5,703
   836     9,420
     89   265   32   386  Payable upon return of securities loaned 
            (320)
          (10)
 Net receivables (payab
les) 
            12           -      Total plan assets 
         $  9,112
           376            
                       (1)
 This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade bonds held in investment strategies 
ben
chmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. 
Aggregate Bond Index. Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non
-agency asset
-backed bonds and corporate bonds. 
  (2)
 This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as well as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized 
strategies. Assets in this category are currently diversified across ten unique investment strategies. For December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, approximately 33% and 

40% of the asse
ts within this category are passively managed to popular mainstream market indexes including the Standard & Poor's 500 Index;
 excluding the allocation to 
the S&P 500 Index strategy, no single investment manager represents more than 2.5% of total plan asset
s. (3)
 This category consists of a highly diversified combination of six distinct investment management strategies with no single st
rategy representing more than 2% of total plan 
assets. Allocations in this category are primarily spread across actively man
aged approaches with distinct value and growth emphasized approaches in fairly equal 
proportions.
 (4)
 This category includes assets diversified across nine unique investment strategies providing exposure to companies based prim
arily in developed market, no
n-U.S. countries 
with no single strategy representing more than 2.5% of total plan assets.
 (5)
 This category primarily includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as timber specific limited partnershi
ps; real estate holdings are diversi
fied by 
geographic location and sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments).
 (6)
 This category consists of several investment strategies diversified over 30 hedge fund managers. Single manager allocation ex
posure is limited to 0.15% (15 basis points) of 
tota
l plan assets.
 206     The changes in Level 3 pension plan 
and other benefit plan 
assets measured at fair value are summarized as follows:
                               Purchases,
                 sales,
           Balance
     issuances
 Transfers
 Balance
       beginning
 Gains (losses)
 and 
 into
 end of
 (in millions)
   of year
 Realized
 Unrealized (1)
 settlements (net)
 Level 3
 year
 Year ended December 31, 2010
               Pension plan assets
               Intermediate (core) fixed income
 $  9   -   2   (3)
  2   10  High
-yield fixed income
    -   -   -   1   -   1  Domestic large
-cap stocks
    5   -   1   (2)
  -   4  International stocks
    1   -   2   3   -   6  Real estate/timber
    353   (6)
  8   5   -   360  Multi
-strategy hedge funds
    339   6   12   (44)
  -   313  Private equity
    83   1   10   18   -   112  Other
    46   9   (1)
  (13)
  -   41      $  836   10   34   (35)
  2   847  Other benefits plan assets
               Real estate/timber
 $  4   (7)
  10   5   -   12  Multi
-strategy hedge fu
nds
    5   (1)
  (3)
  9   -   10  Private equity
    2   -   1   1   -   4  Other
    21   (1)
  -   2   -   22      $  32   (9)
  8   17   -   48  Year ended December 31, 2009
               Pension plan assets
               Intermediate (core) fixed inco
me
 $  5   -   1   3   -   9  High
-yield fixed income
    6   (5)
  -   (1)
  -   -  Domestic large
-cap stocks
    1   -   1   3   -   5  International stocks
    -   -   -   1   -   1  Real estate/timber
    433   1   (161)
  80   -   353  Multi
-strategy hed
ge funds
    310   1   36   (8)
  -   339  Private equity
    88   -   (2)
  (3)
  -   83  Other
    41   -   (5)
  10   -   46      $  884   (3)
  (130)
  85   -   836  Other benefits plan assets
               Real estate/timber
 $  4   -   (1)
  1   -   4  Multi
-strategy hedge funds
    3   -   1   1   -   5  Private equity
    2   -   -   -   -   2  Other
    20   -   -   1   -   21      $  29   -   -   3   -   32                    (1)
 All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end
. VALUATION METHODOLOG
IES
  Following is a description of the 
valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents
 Œ includes highly liquid government 
securities such as U.S. Treasuries. Also includes investments in 
collective investment funds valued at fair value based upon the 
quoted market values of the underlying net assets. The unit price 

is quoted on a private market that is not active; however, the unit 

price is based on underlying investments traded on an active
 
market.
  Intermediate (Core), High
-Yield, International and Specialty 
Fixed Income
 Œ includes investments traded on the secondary 
markets; prices are measured by using quoted market prices for 

similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash flow analy
ses 
using significant inputs observable in the market where available 
or combination of multiple valuation techniques. Also includes 

investments in collective investment funds and government 

securities described above. 
  Domestic, International and Emergin
g Market Stocks
 Œ investments in exchange
-traded equity securities are valued at 
quoted market values. Investments in registered investment 

companies are valued at the NAV of shares held at year end. Also 

includes investments in collective investment funds
 described 
above.
  Real Estate and Timber
 Œ the fair value of real estate and timber 
is estimated based primarily on appraisals prepared by third
-party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual 

market price of the real estate can only be deter
mined by 
negotiation between independent third parties in a sales 
207 Note 19:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued)
    transaction. Also includes investments in exchange
-traded 
equity securities described above.
  Multi
-Strategy Hedge Funds and Private Equity
 Œ the fair values 
of hedge funds are valued based 
on the proportionate share of 
the underlying net assets of the investment funds that comprise 

the fund, based on valuations supplied by the underlying 

investment funds. Investments in private equity funds are valued 

at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor.
 Market values are 
estimates and the actual market price of the investments can 

only be determined by negotiation between independent third 

parties in a sales transaction.
  Other
 Œ the fair values of miscellaneous investments are valued 
at the NAV provided
 by the fund sponsor. Market values are 
estimates and the actual market price of the investments can 

only be determined by negotiation between independent third 

parties in a sales transaction. Also includes insurance contracts 

that are generally stated at cash surrender value. 
 The methods described above may produce a fair value 
calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or 

reflective of future fair values. While we believe our valuation 

methods are appropriate and consistent with other
 market 
participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions 

to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could 

result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting 

date.
  Defined Contribution Retirement Plans
 We sponsor
 a defined contribution retirement plan named the 
Wells
 Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan). The 
Wachovia Savings Plan was merged with the 401(k) Plan 

effective December 31, 2009. We also have a frozen defined 

contribution plan resulting from a compa
ny acquired by 
Wachovia; no contributions are permitted to this frozen plan 

which will merge with the 401(k) Plan on June 30, 2011. Under 

the 401(k) Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees 

may contribute up to 50% of their certified compensati
on, 
although there may be a lower limit for certain highly 

compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status 

of the 401(k) Plan. Eligible employees who complete one year of 

service are eligible for company matching contributions, which 

are ge
nerally a 100% match up to 6% of an employee's certified 

compensation. Effective January 1, 2010, previous and future 

matching contributions are 100% vested for active participants.
 In 2009, the 401(k) Plan was amended to permit us to 
make 
discretionary p
rofit sharing contributions. Based on 2010 and 
2009 earnings, we committed to make a contribution in shares 

of common stock to eligible employees™ 401(k) Plan accounts 

equaling 2% and 1% of certified
 compensation, respectively, 
which resulted in recognizin
g $316
 million and $150 million of 
defined contribution retirement plan expense recorded in 2010 

and 2009, respectively.
 Total
 defined contribution retirement 
plan expenses were $1,092 million, $862
 million and 
$411
 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respecti
vely.
  Other Expenses
 Expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and noninterest 

income in any of the years presented that are not otherwise 

shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to 

Financial Statements were:
                  Year ende
d December 31,
 (in millions)
   2010
 2009 2008 Outside professional services
 $  2,370
   1,982
   847  Contract services
    1,642
   1,088
   407  Foreclosed assets
    1,537
   1,071
   414  Operating losses 
    1,258
   875   142  Outside data processing
    1,046
   1,027
   480  Postage, stationery and supplies
    944   933   556  Insurance
    464   845   725              208     The components of income tax expense were:
 Note 20:  Income Taxes
                                 Year ended December 31,
 (in milli
ons)
    2010
   2009   2008  Current:
           Federal
 $  1,425
   (3,952)
  2,043
    State and local
    548   (334)
  171    Foreign
    78   164   30      Total current
    2,051
   (4,122)
  2,244
  Deferred:
           Federal
    4,060
   8,709
   (1,506)
   State and local
    211   794   -    Foreign
    16   (50)
  (136)
     Total deferred
    4,287
   9,453
   (1,642)
         Total
 $  6,338
   5,331
   602   Our net deferred tax asset
 (liability)
 and the tax effects of 
temporary differences that gave rise t
o significant portions of 
these deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in the
 following
 table.
                                Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
        2010
   2009  Deferred tax assets
         Allowance for loan losses 
 $  8,157
   9,178
    Deferred compensation
           and employee benefits 
    3,473
   3,026
    Accrued expenses, deductible when paid
    1,989
   2,235
    PCI loans 
    4,933
   8,645
    Basis difference in investments 
    2,598
   208    Net operating lo
ss and tax
           credit carry forwards 
    1,514
   3,370
    Other 
        1,891
   1,706
        Total deferred tax assets 
    24,555
   28,368
  Deferred tax assets valuation allowance
    (711)
  (827)
                   Deferred tax liabilities
         Mortgage servicing rights 
    (8,020)
  (8,073)
   Leasing 
    (3,703)
  (3,439)
   Mark to market, net 
    (5,161)
  (4,853)
   Intangible assets 
    (3,322)
  (5,567)
   Net unrealized gains on
           securities available for sale 
    (3,243)
  (2,079
)   Other 
        (2,875)
  (318)
       Total deferred tax liabilities 
    (26,324)
  (24,329)
         Net deferred tax
                 asset (liability)
 $  (2,480)
  3,212
                      Deferred taxes related to net unrealized
 gains
 (losses
) on securities available for sale, net unrealized gains
 (losses)
 on 
derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit 

plan adjustments are recorded in cumulative OCI (see Note 22
- OCI
). These associated adjustments decreased OCI by 
$1.3
 billion.
  We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for 
2010 in the amount 
of $711
 mil
lion primarily attributable to 
deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions 

where we believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax 

assets will not be realized. In these jurisdictions, carry back 
limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning 

strategy limitations contributed to our conclusion that the 

deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We have concluded 

that i
t is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax 
assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources 

of taxable income in carry back periods, and our ability to 

imp
lement tax planning strategies.
  At December 31, 2010
, we had net ope
rating loss and credit 
carry forwards with r
elated deferred tax assets of $1.4
 billion and 
$128
 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not 
utilized, they will expire
 in varying amounts through 2030
.  At December 31, 2010
, we 
had undist
ributed f
oreign earnings 
of $1.6
 billion related to foreign subsidiaries. We intend to 
reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and 

accordingly have not provided $508
 million of income tax 
liability on these earnings.
  The 
following 
table reconciles th
e statutory federal income 
tax expense and rate to the effective income tax expense and 

rate. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting 

guidance that changed the way noncontrolling interests are 

presented in the income statement such that the co
nsolidated 
income statement includes amounts from both Wells
 Fargo 
interests and the noncontrolling interests. As a result, our 

effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by 

income before income tax expense less the net income from 

non
controlling interests
. 209 Note 
20
:  Income Taxes
 (continued)
                                                      December 31,
                2010
         2009         2008    (in millions)
     Amount
 Rate
       Amount
 Rate
       Amount
 Rate
   Statutory federal income tax expense and rate 
 $  6,545
   35.0
  %   $  6,162
   35.0
  %   $  1,140
   35.0
  % Change in tax rate resulting from:
                               State and local taxes on income, net of
                                 federal income tax benefit
    586   3.1
         468   2.7         94   2.9
      Tax
-exempt interest 
    (283)
  (1.5)
        (260)
  (1.5)
        (130)
  (4.0)
     Excludable dividends 
    (258)
  (1.3)
        (253)
  (1.4)
        (186)
  (5.7)
     Other deductible dividends
    (33)
  (0.2)
        (29)
  (0.2)
        (71)
  (2.2)
     Tax credits 
    (577)
  (3.1)
        (533)
  (3.0)
        (266)
  (8.2)
     Life insurance 
    (223)
  (1.2)
        (257)
  (1.5)
        (67)
  (2.0)
     Leveraged lease tax expense
    461   2.5
         400   2.3
         -   -      Other 
      120   0.6
         (367)
  (2.1)
        88   2.7
        Effective income tax expense and rate
 $  6,338
   33.9
  %   $  5,331
   30.3
  %   $  602   18.5
  %                                        Income tax expense for 2010 increased primarily due to the
 new health care legislation and to fewer favorable settlements 
with tax authorities.
  The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows: 
                              Year ended
             December 31,
 (in millions)
      2010
   2009  Balance at beginni
ng of year 
 $  4,921
   7,521
  Additions:
           For tax positions related to the current year
    579   438    For tax positions related to prior years
    301   898    For tax positions from business combinations (1)
    -   6  Reductions:
           For tax positions related to prior years
    (111)
  (834)
   Lapse of statute of limitations
    (148)
  (75)
   Settlements with tax authorities
    (42)
  (3,033)
       Balance at end of year
 $  5,500
   4,921
                  (1)
 Unrecognized tax benefits fro
m the Wachovia acquisition.
   Of the $5.5
 billion of unrecognized t
ax benefits at December 
31, 2010, approximately $3.1
 billion would, if recognized, affect 
the effect
ive tax rate. The remaining $2.4
 billion of unrecognized 
tax benefits relates to income t
ax positions on temporary 
differences.
  We recognize interest and penalties as a component of 
income tax expense
. We accrued approximately $870 
million 
and $771
 million for the payment of interest an
d penalties at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009
, respectively. 
A net expense from 
interest expense and penalties expense of $45
 million (after tax) 
for 2010 and a net benefit from interest income and penalties 

expense of $72
 million (after tax) for 2009 was recognized as a 
component of income tax expense.
  During 2009
, we and the IRS executed settlement 
agreements in accordance with the IRS™s settlement initiative 

related to certain leverage leases that the IRS considers sale
-in, 
lease
-out (SILO) transactions. These settlement agreements 
resolved the SILO transactions 
originally entered into by 

Wachovia and reduced our tax exposure on our overall SILO 

portfolio by approximately 90%. As a result of this resolution, 

our unrecognized tax benefits decreased $2.7 billion in 2009.  
  We are subject to U.S. federal income tax 
as well as income 
tax in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. With few 

exceptions, Wells
 Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to 
federal income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2007, 

and state, local and foreign income tax examination
s for taxable 
years prior to 2006
. Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiaries, 
with few exceptions, are no longer subject to federal income tax 

examinations for taxable years prior to 2006, and state, local and 

foreign income tax examinations for taxable ye
ars prior to 2003.
  We are routinely examined by tax authorities in various 
jurisdictions. The IRS is examining the 2007 and 2008 

consolidated federal income tax returns of Wells
 Fargo & 
Company and its Subsidiaries. We are also litigating or appealing 

var
ious issues related to our prior IRS examinations for the 
periods 1997
-2006. We have paid the IRS the contested income 
tax associated with these issues and refund claims have been 

filed for the respective years. The IRS is also examining the 

consolidated f
ederal income tax returns of Wachovia and its 
Subsidiaries for tax years 2006 through 2008. We are appealing 

various issues related to Wachovia™s federal 2003 through 2005 

tax years. In addition, we are currently subject to examination by 

various state, lo
cal and foreign taxing authorities. While it is 
possible that one or more of these examinations may be resolved 

within the next twelve months, we do not anticipate that there 

will be a significant impact to our unrecognized tax benefits as a 

result of thes
e examinations.
  In September 2006, we filed a federal tax refund suit in the 
U.S. Court of Federal Claims related to certain leveraged lease 

transactions, which the IRS considers SILO transactions that we 

entered into between 1997 and 2002. On February 19, 2010, the 

Court of Federal Claims entered an adverse judgment, and on 

April 15, 2010, we filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of 

Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Oral argument was heard on 

December 7, 2010, and we expect a decision sometime during
 2011. There will be no adverse financial statement impact if the 

Court of Appeals affirms the judgment of the Court of Federal 

Claims.
  We estimate
 that our unrecognized tax benefit
s could 
decrease by between $100
 million and $500
 million during the 
next 
12 months primarily related to statute expirations and 
settlements.
  210     The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted 
earnings per common share and reconciles the numerator and 

denominator of both earnings 
per common share calculations.  
 Note 21: 
 Earnings Per Common Share
                                     Year ended December 31,
 (in millions, except per share amounts)
   2010
  2009  2008  Wells Fargo net income
 $  12,362
   12,275
   2,655
  Less:
 Preferred stock dividends and accretion an
d other (1)
    730   4,285
   286  Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock (numerator)
 $  11,632
   7,990
   2,369
  Earnings per common share
         Average common shares outstanding (denominator)
    5,226.8
   4,545.2
   3,378.1
  Per share
 $  2.23   1.76
   0.70
  Diluted earnings per common share
         Average common shares outstanding
    5,226.8
   4,545.2
   3,378.1
  Add:   
 Stock Options
    28.3
   17.2
   13.1
      Restricted share rights
    8.0
   0.3
   0.1
  Diluted average common shares ou
tstanding (denominator)
    5,263.1
   4,562.7
   3,391.3
  Per share 
 $  2.21
   1.75
   0.70
                      (1)
 Includes
 Series J, K and L
 preferred stock dividends of $737 million
, $804 million and $67 million
 for the year ended 2010
, 2009 and
 2008, resp
ectively. Also includes 
$3.5
 billion
 and $219
 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, for Series D Preferred Stock, which was redeemed in 2009. In conjunction with the red
emption, we accelerated 
accretion of the remaining discount of $1.9 billion.
 See Note
 17 for additional information.
    The following table presents the outstanding options and 
warrants to purchase shares of common stock that were anti
-dilutive (the exercise price was higher than the weighted
-average 
market price), and therefore not inclu
ded in the calculation of 
diluted earnings per common share.
            Weighted
-average shares
   Year ended December 31,
 (in millions)
 2010
  2009  2008  Options
  212.1
   247.2
   169.3
  Warrants
  66.9
   110.3
   25.4
                  211    The components of other comprehensive income (OCI) and the related tax effects were:
 Note 2
2:  Othe
r Comprehensive Income
                                                     Year ended December 31,
                2010
     2009     2008                Before
 Tax
 Net o
f   Before
 Tax
 Net of
   Before
 Tax
 Net of
 (in millions)
   tax
 effect
 tax
   tax
 effect
 tax
   tax
 effect
 tax
 Translation adjustments 
 $  71   (26)
  45     118   (45)
  73     (93)
  35   (58)
 Securities available for sale:
                           Net unr
ealized gains (losses)
                             arising during the year 
    2,611
   (1,134)
  1,477
     15,998
   (5,972)
  10,026
     (10,552)
  3,960
   (6,592)
   Reclassification of gains (losses)
                             included in net income 
    77   (29)
  48     (349)
  129   (220)
    (29)
  11   (18)
 Net unrealized gains (losses)
                           arising during the year 
    2,688
   (1,163)
  1,525
     15,649
   (5,843)
  9,806
     (10,581)
  3,971
   (6,610)
 Derivatives and hedging activiti
es:
                           Net unrealized gains 
                             arising during the year 
    750   (282)
  468     193   (86)
  107     955   (363)
  592    Reclassification of net gains on cash flow
                             hedges inclu
ded in net income
    (613)
  234   (379)
    (531)
  203   (328)
    (252)
  96   (156)
 Net unrealized gains (losses)
                           arising during the year
    137   (48)
  89     (338)
  117   (221)
    703   (267)
  436  Defined benefit pension plan
s:
                           Net actuarial gain (loss) 
    20   (9)
  11     222   (73)
  149     (2,165)
  799   (1,366)
   Amortization of net actuarial loss and prior
                             service cost included in net income
    104   (45)
  59     184   (60)
  124     6   (2)
  4  Net gains (losses) arising during the year
    124   (54)
  70     406   (133)
  273     (2,159)
  797   (1,362)
       Other comprehensive income
 $  3,020
   (1,291)
  1,729
     15,835
   (5,904)
  9,931
     (12,130)
  4,536
   (7,59
4)  Cumulative OCI balances were:
                                                    Cumulative
                 Derivatives
   Defined
   other
             Securities
   and
   benefit
   compre
-         Translation
   available
   hedging
   pension
   hensiv
e (in millions)
   adjustments
   for sale
   activities
   plans
   income
 Balance, December 31, 2007
 $  52     398     435     (160)
    725    Net change
    (58)
    (6,610)
    436     (1,362)
    (7,594)
 Balance, December 31, 2008
    (6)
    (6,212)
    871     (1,522)
    (6,869)
   Cumulative effect from change in accounting for 
                         other
-than
-temporary impairment on debt securities
    -     (53)
    -     -     (53)
   Net change
    73     9,806
     (221)
    273     9,931
  Balance, Dec
ember 31, 2009
    67     3,541
     650     (1,249)
    3,009
    Net change
    45     1,525
     89     70     1,729
  Balance, December 31, 2010
 $  112     5,066
     739     (1,179)
    4,738
  212     We have three operating segments
 for management reporting: 
Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, 
Brokerage and Retirement
. The results for these operating 
segments are based on our management accounting process, for 

which there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance 

equi
valent to GAAP for financial accounting. The management 
accounting process measures the performance of the operating 

segments based on our management structure and is not 

necessarily comparable with similar information for other 

financial services companie
s. We define our operating segments 
by product type and customer segment. If the management 

structure and/or the allocation process changes, allocations, 

transfers and assignments may change. 
In first quarter 2010, we 

conformed certain funding and allocati
on methodologies of 
legacy Wachovia to those of Wells Fargo; in addition, integration 

expense related to mergers ot
her than the Wachovia merger is
 now included in segment results. 
In fourth quarter 2010, we 

aligned certain lending businesses into Wholesale
 Banking from 
Community Banking to reflect our previously announced 

restructuring of Wells Fargo Financial. 
Prior periods h
ave been 
revised to reflect these
 changes. 
 Note 2
3:  Operating Segments
   Community Banking
 offers a complete line of diversified 
financial products and services to consumers and small 

businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in 

which the owner generally is the financial decision maker. 

Community Banking also offers investment management and 

other services to retail customers and securities brokerag
e through affiliates. These products and services include the 

Wells
 Fargo Advantage Funds
SM, a family of mutual funds. Loan 
products include lines of cred
it, auto floor plan lines, 
equity lines 
and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education loans
, 
origination and purchase of residential mortgage loans and 

servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit 

products and 
financial services available to small businesses and 

their owners include equipment leases, real estate and other 

commercia
l financing, Small Business
 Administration financing, 
venture capital financing, cash management, payroll services, 

retirement plans, Health Savings Accounts, credit cards, and 

merchant payment processing. Community Banking also 

purchases sales finance con
tracts from retail merchants 
throughout the United States and directly from auto dealers in 

Puerto Rico. Consumer and business deposit products include 

checking accounts, savings deposits, market rate accounts, 

Individual Retirement Accounts, time deposits
 and debit cards.
  Community Banking serves customers through a complete 
range of channels, including traditional banking stores, in
-store 
banking centers, business centers, ATMs, Online and Mobile 

Banking, and 
Wells
 Fargo Customer Connection,
 a 24
-hours a
 day, seven days a week telephone service.
  Wholesale Banking
 provides financial solutions to businesses 
across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of 

$20
 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale 
Banking provides a comp
lete line of commercial, corporate, 
capital markets, cash management and real estate banking 
products and services. These include traditional commercial 

loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset
-based lending, 
equipment leasing, international tra
de facilities, trade financing, 
collection services, foreign exchange services, treasury 

management, investment management, institutional fixed
-income sales, interest rate, commodity and equity risk 

management, online/electronic products such as the 

Commer
cial Electronic Office
® (CEO
®) portal, insurance, 
corporate trust fiduciary and agency services, and investment 

banking services. Wholesale Banking manages customer 

investments through institutional separate accounts and mutual 

funds, including the Wells
 Fargo Advantage Funds and Wells 
Capital Management. Wholesale Banking also supports the CRE 

market with products and services such as construction loans for 

commercial and residential development, land acquisition and 

development loans, secured and unsecure
d lines of credit, 
interim financing arrangements for completed structures, 

rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of 

credit, permanent loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing 

and real estate and mortgage brokerage services.
  Wealt
h, Brokerage and Retirement
 provides a full range of 
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach 

to meet each client's needs. Wealth Management provides 

affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of 

wealth management sol
utions, including financial planning, 
private banking, credit, investment management and trust. 

Family Wealth meets the unique needs of ultra high net worth 

customers. Brokerage serves customers' advisory, brokerage and 

financial needs as part of one of th
e largest full
-service brokerage 
firms in the United States. Retirement is a national leader in 

providing institutional retirement and trust services (including 

401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for businesses, retail 

retirement solutions for individ
uals, and reinsurance services for 
the life insurance industry. 
  Other
 includes corporate items (such as integration expenses 
related to the Wachovia merger) not specific to a business 

segment and elimination of certain items that are included in 

more tha
n one business segment.
 213 Note 23:  Operating Segments 
(co
ntinued)
                                      Wealth,
                   Brokerage 
               Community
 Wholesale
 and
   Consolidated 
 (income/expense in millions, average balances in billions)
    Banking
 Banking 
 Retirement 
 Other (1)
 Company
 2010
              Net interest income 
(2)
  $  31,864
   11,495
   2,707
   (1,309)
  44,757
  Provision for credit losses
    13,807
   1,920
   334   (308)
  15,753
  Noninterest income
    22,834
   10,721
   9,023
   (2,125)
  40,453
  Noninterest expense
    30,073
   11,267
   9,768
   (652)
  50,456
  Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
    10,818
   9,029
   1,628
   (2,474)
  19,001
  Income tax expense (benefit)
    3,425
   3,237
   616   (940)
  6,338
  Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interes
ts
    7,393
   5,792
   1,012
   (1,534)
  12,663
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    275   19   7   -   301  Net income (loss) 
(3)
  $  7,118
   5,773
   1,005
   (1,534)
  12,362
                      2009              Net interest income (2)
 $  34,799
   10,218
   2,407
   (1,100)
  46,324
  Provision for credit losses
    17,866
   3,648
   460   (306)
  21,668
  Noninterest income
    25,699
   10,363
   8,358
   (2,058)
  42,362
  Noninterest expense
    29,956
   10,771
   9,426
   (1,133)
  49,020
  Income 
(loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
    12,676
   6,162
   879   (1,719)
  17,998
  Income tax expense (benefit)
    3,449
   2,211
   324   (653)
  5,331
  Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests
    9,227
   3,951
   555   (1,066)
  12,667
  Less: N
et income from noncontrolling interests
    339   27   26   -   392  Net income (loss) (3)
 $  8,888
   3,924
   529   (1,066)
  12,275
                      2008             Net interest income (2)
 $  20,492
   4,564
   642   (555)
  25,143
  Provision for cre
dit losses
    14,822
   1,157
   299   (299)
  15,979
  Noninterest income
    12,298
   3,785
   1,834
   (1,183)
  16,734
  Noninterest expense
    16,429
   5,375
   1,986
   (1,192)
  22,598
  Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)
    1,539
   1,817
   191   (247)
  3,300
  Income tax expense (benefit)
    202   421   73   (94)
  602  Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests
    1,337
   1,396
   118   (153)
  2,698
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    32   11   -   -   43  Net income (lo
ss) (3)
 $  1,305
   1,385
   118   (153)
  2,655
                      2010
              Average loans
 $  530.1
   230.5
   43.0
   (33.0)
  770.6
  Average assets
    773.0
   373.2
   139.3
   (58.6)
  1,226.9
  Average core deposits
    536.4
   170.0
   121.2
   (55.6)
  772.0
                      2009              Average loans
 $  552.7
   260.2
   45.7
   (35.8)
  822.8
  Average assets
    806.1
   383.2
   127.9
   (54.8)
  1,262.4
  Average core deposits
    552.8
   147.3
   114.2
   (51.8)
  762.5
                                          (1)
 Includes Wachovia integration expenses and the elimination of items that are included in both Community Banking and Wealth, B
rokerage and Retirement, largely 
representing 
services and products for 
wealth management customers 
provided in
 Community Banking 
stores.
 (2)
 Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of liabilities to fund those assets. Int
erest earned includes actual interest earned on 
segment assets and, if the segment has excess liabilitie
s, interest credits for providing funding to other segments. The cost of liabilities includes interest expense on segment 
liabilities and, if the segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of ex
cess liab
ilities from another segment.
 (3)
 Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement segments 
and Wells Fargo net income for the 
consolidated company.
 214     Following are the condensed consolidating financial statements 
of the Parent and Wells Fargo
 Financial, Inc. and its 
owned 
subsidiaries (WFFI). In 2002, the Parent issued a full and 

unconditional guarantee of all outstanding term debt securit
ies 
and commercial paper of WFFI. WFFI ceased filing periodic 

reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is no 
longer a separately rated company. The Parent also guaranteed 

all outstanding term debt securities of Wells Fargo Financial 

Canada Cor
poration (WFFCC), WFFI™s wholly
 owned Canadian 
subsidiary. WFFCC has continued to issue term debt securities 

and commercial paper in Canada, unconditionally guaranteed by 

the Parent.
 Note 2
4:  Condensed Consolidating Financial
 Statements
   Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
                                                       Other
                       consolidating
   Consolidated
 (in millions)
   Parent
 WFFI
 subsidiaries
 Eliminations
 Company
 Year ended December 31, 2010
             Dividends from subsidiaries:
               Bank
 $  12,896
   -   -   (12,896)
  -    Nonbank
    21   -   -   (21)
  -  Interest income from loans
    -   2,674
   37,404
   (318)
  39,760
  Interest income from subsidiaries
    1,375
   -   14   (1,389)
  -  Other interest income
    304   116   12,616
   -   13,036
      Tot
al interest income
    14,596
   2,790
   50,034
   (14,624)
  52,796
  Deposits
    -   -   2,832
   -   2,832
  Short
-term borrowings
    277   46   586   (817)
  92  Long
-term debt
    2,910
   963   1,905
   (890)
  4,888
  Other interest expense
    2   -   225   -   227      Total interest expense
    3,189
   1,009
   5,548
   (1,707)
  8,039
  Net interest income 
    11,407
   1,781
   44,486
   (12,917)
  44,757
  Provision for credit losses
    -   1,064
   14,689
   -   15,753
  Net interest income after provision for c
redit losses
    11,407
   717   29,797
   (12,917)
  29,004
  Noninterest income
             Fee income 
Œ nonaffiliates
    -   107   23,385
   -   23,492
  Other
    363   145   17,111
   (658)
  16,961
      Total noninterest income
    363   252   40,496
   (658
)  40,453
  Noninterest expense
             Salaries and benefits
    143   150   26,919
   -   27,212
  Other
    1,192
   632   22,078
   (658)
  23,244
      Total noninterest expense
    1,335
   782   48,997
   (658)
  50,456
  Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) and
               equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
    10,435
   187   21,296
   (12,917)
  19,001
  Income tax expense (benefit)
    (749)
  62   7,025
   -   6,338
  Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 
    1,178
   -   -   (1,178)
  -  Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests
  12,362
   125   14,271
   (14,095)
  12,663
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    -   -   301   -   301  Parent, WFFI, Other and Wells Fargo net income (loss)
 $  12,362
   125   13,970
   (14,095)
  12,362
  215 Note 24:  Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements 
(continued)
     Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
                                                     Other
                       consolidating
   Consolidated
 (in millions)
   Parent
 WFFI
 subsidiaries
 Eliminations
 Company
 Yea
r ended December 31, 2009
             Dividends from subsidiaries:
               Bank
 $  6,974
   -   -   (6,974)
  -    Nonbank
    528   -   -   (528)
  -  Interest income from loans
    -   3,467
   38,140
   (18)
  41,589
  Interest income from subsidiarie
s    2,126
   -   -   (2,126)
  -  Other interest income
    424   111   14,150
   -   14,685
      Total interest income
    10,052
   3,578
   52,290
   (9,646)
  56,274
  Deposits
    -   -   3,774
   -   3,774
  Short
-term borrowings
    174   38   782   (772)
  222  Long
-term debt
    3,391
   1,305
   2,458
   (1,372)
  5,782
  Other interest expense
    -   -   172   -   172      Total interest expense
    3,565
   1,343
   7,186
   (2,144)
  9,950
  Net interest income 
    6,487
   2,235
   45,104
   (7,502)
  46,324
  Prov
ision for credit losses
    -   1,901
   19,767
   -   21,668
  Net interest income after provision for credit losses
    6,487
   334   25,337
   (7,502)
  24,656
  Noninterest income
             Fee income 
Œ nonaffiliates
    -   148   22,815
   -   22,963
  Oth
er
    738   169   19,135
   (643)
  19,399
      Total noninterest income
    738   317   41,950
   (643)
  42,362
  Noninterest expense
             Salaries and benefits
    320   129   26,018
   -   26,467
  Other
    521   711   21,964
   (643)
  22,553
      Total noninterest expense
    841   840   47,982
   (643)
  49,020
  Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) and
             equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
  6,384
   (189)
  19,305
   (7,502)
  17,998
  Income tax expense (benefit)
    (16
4)  (86)
  5,581
   -   5,331
  Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 
    5,727
   -   -   (5,727)
  -  Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests
    12,275
   (103)
  13,724
   (13,229)
  12,667
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    -   1   391   -   392  Parent, WFFI, Other and Wells Fargo net income (loss)
 $  12,275
   (104)
  13,333
   (13,229)
  12,275
                          Year ended December 31, 2008
             Dividends from subsidiaries:
               Bank
 $  1,806
   -   -   (1,806)
  -    Nonbank
    326   -   -   (326)
  -  Interest income from loans
    2   5,275
   22,417
   (62)
  27,632
  Interest income from subsidiaries
    2,892
   -   -   (2,892)
  -  Other interest income
    241   108   7,051
   (134)
  7,266
      Tota
l interest income
    5,267
   5,383
   29,468
   (5,220)
  34,898
  Deposits
    -   -   4,966
   (445)
  4,521
  Short
-term borrowings
    475   220   1,757
   (974)
  1,478
  Long
-term debt
    2,957
   1,807
   661   (1,669)
  3,756
      Total interest expense
    3,432   2,027
   7,384
   (3,088)
  9,755
  Net interest income 
    1,835
   3,356
   22,084
   (2,132)
  25,143
  Provision for credit losses
    -   2,970
   13,009
   -   15,979
  Net interest income after provision for credit losses
    1,835
   386   9,075
   (2,132
)  9,164
  Noninterest income
             Fee income 
Œ nonaffiliates
    -   437   10,110
   -   10,547
  Other
    (101)
  168   8,181
   (2,061)
  6,187
      Total noninterest income
    (101)
  605   18,291
   (2,061)
  16,734
  Noninterest expense
             Salaries and benefits
    (385)
  719   12,606
   -   12,940
  Other
    15   1,119
   10,585
   (2,061)
  9,658
      Total noninterest expense
    (370)
  1,838
   23,191
   (2,061)
  22,598
  Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) and
             equit
y in undistributed income of subsidiaries
  2,104
   (847)
  4,175
   (2,132)
  3,300
  Income tax expense (benefit)
    (83)
  (289)
  974   -   602  Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 
    468   -   -   (468)
  -  Net income (loss) before noncontroll
ing interests
    2,655
   (558)
  3,201
   (2,600)
  2,698
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    -   -   43   -   43  Parent, WFFI, Other and Wells Fargo net income (loss)
 $  2,655
   (558)
  3,158
   (2,600)
  2,655
  216    Condensed Consolidating Balan
ce Sheets
                                           Other
                       consolidating
   Consolidated
 (in millions)
   Parent
 WFFI
 subsidiaries
 Eliminations
 Company
 December 31, 2010
             Assets
             Cash and cash equivalents due
 from:
               Subsidiary banks
 $  30,240
   154   -   (30,394)
  -    Nonaffiliates
    9   212   96,460
   -   96,681
  Securities available for sale
    2,368
   2,742
   167,544
   -   172,654
  Mortgages and loans held for sale
    -   -   53,053
   -   53,053
                          Loans
    7   30,329
   742,807
   (15,876)
  757,267
  Loans to subsidiaries:
               Bank
    3,885
   -   -   (3,885)
  -    Nonbank
    53,382
   -   -   (53,382)
  -  Allowance for loan losses
    -   (1,709)
  (21,313)
  -   (23,022)
     Net loans
    57,274
   28,620
   721,494
   (73,143)
  734,245
  Investments in subsidiaries:
               Bank
    133,867
   -   -   (133,867)
  -    Nonbank
    14,904
   -   -   (14,904)
  -  Other assets
    8,363
   1,316
   192,821
   (1,005)
  201,495
        Total assets
 $  247,025
   33,044
   1,231,372
   (253,313)
  1,258,128
  Liabilities and equity
             Deposits
 $  -   -   878,336
   (30,394)
  847,942
  Short
-term borrowings
    2,412
   14,490
   86,523
   (48,024)
  55,401
  Accrued e
xpenses and other liabilities
    6,819
   1,685
   62,414
   (1,005)
  69,913
  Long
-term debt
    99,745
   15,240
   55,476
   (13,478)
  156,983
  Indebtedness to subsidiaries
    11,641
   -   -   (11,641)
  -      Total liabilities
    120,617
   31,415
   1,082,74
9   (104,542)
  1,130,239
  Parent, WFFI, 
Other and Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
    126,408
   1,618
   147,153
   (148,771)
  126,408
  Noncontrolling interests
    -   11   1,470
   -   1,481
      Total equity
    126,408
   1,629
   148,623
   (148,771)
  127,889
        Total liabilities and equity
 $  247,025
   33,044
   1,231,372
   (253,313)
  1,258,128
                          December 31, 2009
             Assets
             Cash and cash equivalents due from:
               Subsidiary banks
 $  27,303
   205   -   (27,508)
  -    Nonaffiliates
    11   249   67,705
   -   67,965
  Securities available for sale
    4,666
   2,665
   165,379
   -   172,710
  Mortgages and loans held for sale
    -   -   44,827
   -   44,827
                          Loans
    7   35,199
   750,045
   (2,481)
  782,770
  Loans to subsidiaries:
               Bank
    6,760
   -   -   (6,760)
  -    Nonbank
    56,316
   -   -   (56,316)
  -  Allowance for loan losses
    -   (1,877)
  (22,639)
  -   (24,516)
     Net loans
    63,083
   33,322
   727,406
   (65,557)
  758,254
  Investments in subsidiaries:
               Bank
    134,063
   -   -   (134,063)
  -    Nonbank
    12,816
   -   -   (12,816)
  -  Other assets
    10,758
   1,500
   189,049
   (1,417)
  199,890
        Total assets
 $  252,700
   37,94
1   1,194,366
   (241,361)
  1,243,646
  Liabilities and equity
             Deposits
 $  -   -   851,526
   (27,508)
  824,018
  Short
-term borrowings
    1,546
   10,599
   59,813
   (32,992)
  38,966
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  7,878
   1,439
   54,54
2   (1,417)
  62,442
  Long
-term debt
    119,353
   24,437
   80,499
   (20,428)
  203,861
  Indebtedness to subsidiaries
    12,137
   -   -   (12,137)
  -      Total liabilities
    140,914
   36,475
   1,046,380
   (94,482)
  1,129,287
  Parent, WFFI, 
Other and Wel
ls Fargo stockholders' equity
    111,786
   1,456
   145,423
   (146,879)
  111,786
  Noncontrolling interests
    -   10   2,563
   -   2,573
      Total equity
    111,786
   1,466
   147,986
   (146,879)
  114,359
        Total liabilities and equity
 $  252,700
   37,941
   1,194,366
   (241,361)
  1,243,646
  217 Note 24:  Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 
(continued)
    Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
                                                         Year ended December 31,
               2010
    2009                    Other
         Other
                     consolidating
         consolidating
                     subsidiaries/
 Consolidated
       subsidiaries/
 Consolidated
 (in millions)
   Parent
 WFFI
 eliminations
 Company
   Parent
 WFFI
 eliminations
 Company
 Cash flows from operating activities:
                     Net cash provided
                         by operating activities
 $  14,180
   1,774
   2,818
   18,772
     7,356
   1,655
   19,602
   28,613
  Cash flows from investing activities:
                     Securities available for sale:
                       Sales proceeds
    2,441
   796   5,431
   8,668
     1,184
   925   50,929
   53,038
    Prepayments and maturities 
    -   229   47,690
   47,919
     -   290   38,521
   38,811
    Purchases
    (119)
  (1,037)
  (52,310)
  (53,466)
    (463)
  (1,667)
  (93,155)
  (95,285)
 Loans:
                         Loans originated by banking
                         subsidiaries, net of principal
                         collected
    -   (206)
  16,075
   15,869
     -   (981)
  53,221
   52,240
    Proceeds from sales (i
ncluding 
                         participations) of loans 
                         originated for investment by 
                         banking subsidiaries 
    -   -   6,517
   6,517
     -   -   6,162
   6,162
    Purchases (including participations) 
                         of loans by banking 
                         subsidiaries
    -   -   (2,297)
  (2,297)
    -   -   (3,363)
  (3,363)
   Principal collected on nonbank 
                         entities' loans
    -   10,829
   4,731
   15,560
     -   11,119
   3,309
   14,428
    Loans originated by nonbank entities
    -   (6,336)
  (4,500)
  (10,836)
    -   (5,523)
  (4,438)
  (9,961)
   Net repayments from 
                         (advances to) subsidiaries
    (5,485)
  (842)
  6,327
   -     11,369
   (138)
  (11,231)
  -    Capital notes and term loans 
                         made to subsidiaries
    -   -   -   -     (497)
  (1,000)
  1,497
   -    Principal collected on notes/loans 
                         made to subsidiaries
    11,282
   -   (11,282)
  -     12,979
   -   (12,979)
  -  Net decrease (increase) in 
                       investment in subsidiaries
    1,198
   -   (1,198)
  -     (1,382)
  -   1,382
   -  Net cash paid for acquisitions
    -   -   (36)
  (36)
    -   -   (138)
  (138)
 Other, net 
    15   64   (31,652)
  (31,573)
    22,513
   355   (7,015)
  15,853
      Net cash provided (used) 
                           by investing activities
    9,332
   3,497
   (16,504)
  (3,675)
    45,703
   3,380
   22,702
   71,785
  Cash flows from financing activities:
                     Net change in:
                       Deposits
    -   -   23,924
   23,924
     -   -   42,473
   42,473
    Short
-term borrowings
    1,860
   4,118
   5,330
   11,308
     (19,100)
  2,158
   (52,166)
  (69,108)
 Long
-term debt:
                       Proceeds from issuance
    1,789
   -   1,700
   3,489
     8,297
   1,347
   (1,248)
  8,396
    Repayment
    (23,281)
  (9,478)
  (30,558)
  (63,317)
    (22,931)
  (8,508)
  (34,821)
  (66,260)
 Preferred stock:
                       Cash dividends paid 
    (737)
  -   -   (737)
    (2,178)
  -   -   (2,178)
   Redeemed
    -   -   -   -     (25,000)
  -   -   (25,000)
 Common stock warrants repurchased
    (545)
  -   -   (545)
    -   -   -   -  Common stock:
                       Proceeds from issuance 
    1,37
5   -   -   1,375
     21,976
   -   -   21,976
    Repurchased
    (91)
  -   -   (91)
    (220)
  -   -   (220)
   Cash dividends paid 
    (1,045)
  -   -   (1,045)
    (2,125)
  -   -   (2,125)
 Excess tax benefits related to 
                       stock option
 payments
    98   -   -   98     18   -   -   18  Change in noncontrolling interests:
                       Purchase of Prudential's
                         noncontrolling interest
    -   -   -   -     -   -   (4,500)
  (4,500)
   Other, net
    -   1   (593)  (592)
    -   (4)
  (549)
  (553)
 Other, net 
    -   -   -   -     (140)
  -   140   -      Net cash used by 
                           financing activities
    (20,577)
  (5,359)
  (197)
  (26,133)
    (41,403)
  (5,007)
  (50,671)
  (97,081)
       Net chan
ge in cash and 
                             due from banks
    2,935
   (88)
  (13,883)
  (11,036)
    11,656
   28   (8,367)
  3,317
  Cash and due from banks 
                       at beginning of year
    27,314
   454   (688)
  27,080
     15,658
   426   7,679
   23,763
  Cash and due from banks 
                       at end of year
 $  30,249
   366   (14,571)
  16,044
     27,314
   454   (688)
  27,080
  218     Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
                                         Other
                     consolidating
                     subsidiaries/
 Consolidated
 (in millions)
   Parent
 WFFI
 eliminations
 Company
 Year ended December 31,2008
           Cash flows from operating activities:
               Net cash provided (used) by operating activi
ties
 $  730   2,023
   (7,541)
  (4,788)
 Cash flows from investing activities:
           Securities available for sale:
             Sales proceeds
    2,570
   875   57,361
   60,806
    Prepayments and maturities 
    -   283   24,034
   24,317
    Purchases
    (3,514)
  (1,258)
  (100,569)
  (105,341)
 Loans:
             Loans originated by banking subsidiaries, net of principal collected
  -   (1,684)
  (53,131)
  (54,815)
   Proceeds from sales (including participations) of loans 
               originated for i
nvestment by banking subsidiaries 
    -   -   1,988
   1,988
    Purchases (including participations) of loans by banking subsidiaries
  -   -   (5,513)
  (5,513)
   Principal collected on nonbank entities' loans
    -   14,447
   7,399
   21,846
    Loans origi
nated by nonbank entities
    -   (12,362)
  (7,611)
  (19,973)
   Net repayments from (advances to) subsidiaries
    (12,415)
  -   12,415
   -    Capital notes and term loans made to subsidiaries
    (2,008)
  -   2,008
   -    Principal collected on notes/loan
s made to subsidiaries
    8,679
   -   (8,679)
  -  Net decrease (increase) in investment in subsidiaries
    (37,108)
  -   37,108
   -  Net cash acquired from acquisitions
    9,194
   -   2,009
   11,203
  Other, net 
    (21,823)
  (91)
  69,235
   47,321
      Net cash provided (used) by investing activities
    (56,425)
  210   38,054
   (18,161)
 Cash flows from financing activities:
           Net change in:
             Deposits
    -   -   7,697
   7,697
    Short
-term borrowings
    17,636
   5,580
   (38,104)
  (14,888)
 Long
-term debt:
             Proceeds from issuance
    21,931
   1,113
   12,657
   35,701
    Repayment
    (16,560)
  (8,983)
  (4,316)
  (29,859)
 Preferred stock:
             Proceeds from issuance
    22,674
   -   -   22,674
  Proceeds from issuance 
of stock warrants
    2,326
   -   -   2,326
  Common stock:
             Proceeds from issuance 
    14,171
   -   -   14,171
    Repurchased
    (1,623)
  -   -   (1,623)
   Cash dividends paid 
    (4,312)
  -   -   (4,312)
 Excess tax benefits related to stock
 option payments
    121   -   -   121  Change in noncontrolling interests:
             Other, net
    -   -   (53)
  (53)
     Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
    56,364
   (2,290)
  (22,119)
  31,955
        Net change in cash and due from ba
nks
  669   (57)
  8,394
   9,006
  Cash and due from banks at beginning of year
    14,989
   483   (715)
  14,757
  Cash and due from banks at end of year
 $  15,658
   426   7,679
   23,763
  219    The Company an
d each of its subsidiary banks are subject to 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements promulgated by 
federal regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes 

capital requirements, including well capitalized standards, for 

the consolidated financial ho
lding company, and the OCC has 
similar requirements for the Company™s national banks, 

including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. Under the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), 

federal regulatory agencies were required to adopt regu
lations 
defining five capital tiers for banks: well capitalized, adequately 

capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and 

critically undercapitalized. Failure to meet minimum capital 

requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and poss
ibly 
additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if 

undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our financial 

statements.
 Note 25:  Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements
   Quantitative measures, established by the regulators to 
ensure capital adequacy, require that the Company and each o
f its subsidiary banks maintain minimum ratios (set forth in the 

following table) of capital to risk
-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is 
considered core capital and generally includes common 

stockholders™ equity, qualifying preferred stock, and trust 

prefer
red securities, and noncontrolling interests in consolidated 
subsidiaries, reduced by goodwill, net of related taxes, certain 

intangible and other assets in excess of prescribed limitations, 

and adjusted for the aggregate impact of certain items included 

in other comprehensive income. Total capital includes Tier 1 

capital, subordinated debt and other components that do not 

qualify for Tier 1 capital, and the aggregate allowance for credit 

losses up to a specified percentage of risk
-weighted assets.
  Risk
-weighted assets reflect the perceived risk, expressed as a 
percentage of the amount of each asset included on the balance 

sheet, as well as certain off
-balance sheet exposures, including 
unfunded loan commitments, letters of credit and derivative 
contracts. 
Additional information with respect to off
-balance 
sheet exposures is included in Notes 6 and 15.
  We do not consolidate our wholly
-owned trusts (the Trusts) 
formed solely to issue trust preferred securities. Trust preferred 

securities and perpetual prefer
red purchase securities issued by 
the Trusts includable in Tier 1 capital were $19.2 billion at 

December 31, 2010. The junior subordinated debentures held by 

the Trusts were included in the Company's long
-term debt. See 
Note 13 for additional information o
n trust preferred securities.
  Management believes that, as of December 31, 2010, the
 Company and each of the covered subsidiary banks met all 

capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.
 The most recent notification from the OCC categorized ea
ch of 
the covered subsidiary banks as well capitalized, under the 

FDICIA prompt corrective action provisions applicable to banks. 

To be categorized as well capitalized, the institution must 

maintain a total risk
-based capital (RBC) ratio as set forth in th
e table and not be subject to a capital directive order. There are no 

conditions or events since that notification that management 

believes have changed the RBC category of any of the covered 

subsidiary banks.
  Certain subsidiaries of the Company are appro
ved 
seller/servicers, and are therefore required to maintain 

minimum levels of shareholders™ equity, as specified by various 

agencies, including the United States Department of Housing 

and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At 

December 31, 2010, each
 seller/servicer met these requirements.
 Certain broker
-dealer subsidiaries of the Company are subject to 
SEC Rule 15c3
-1 (the Net Capital Rule), which requires that we 
maintain minimum levels of net capital, as defined. At 

December
 31, 2010, each of these
 subsidiaries met these 
requirements.
  The following table presents regulatory capital information 
for Wells Fargo & Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
                                              Wells Fargo & Company
   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
   Well
-   Minimum
             December 31,
   capitalized
   capital
   (in billions, except ratios)
    2010
     2009     2010
     2009    ratios (1)
   ratios (1)
   Regulatory capital:
                           Tier 1
 $  109.4
     93.8
     90.2
     43.8
            Total
    147.1
     134.4
     117.1
     58.4
                                              Assets:
                           Risk
-weighted
 $  980.0
     1,013.6
     895.2
     492.0
            Adjusted average (2)
    1,189.5
     1,191.6
     1,057.7
     583.3
                                              Capital ratios:
                           Tier 1 capital
    11.16
  %  9.25
     10.07
     8.90
     6.00
     4.00
    Total capital
    15.01
     13.26
     13.09
     11.87
     10.00
     8.00
    Tier 1 leve
rage (2)
    9.19
     7.87
     8.52
     7.50
     5.00
     4.00
                                                                        (1)
 As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC.
 (2)
 The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital
 divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline i
s 3% for banking organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well
-diversified risk, excellent asset qual
ity, high liquidity, good earnings, effective 
management and monitoring of market risk and, in general, are considered top
-rated, strong banking organizations.
 220     The Board of Directors and Stockholde
rs 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
   Wells
 Fargo & Company:
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Wells
 Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of 
December
 31,
 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and compr
ehensive income, and 
cash flows for each of the years in the three
-year period ended December
 31,
 2010. These consolidated financial statements are the 
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consoli
dated financial statements 
based on our audits.
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Th
ose 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assu
rance about whether the financial statements are free of 
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the f
inancial 
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting princ
iples used and significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinio
n.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements refer
red to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
the Company as of December
 31,
 2010 and 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three
-year period ended December
 31,
 2010, in c
onformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted a new accounting standard related to its
 involvement with variable interest entities effective January 1, 20
10, and the Company changed its method of evaluating other than 
temporary impairment for debt securities in 2009 and certain investment securities in 2008
.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight B
oard (United States), the 
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December
 31,
 2010, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
Œ Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (
COSO), and our report 
dated February
 25,
 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial 
reporting.
      San Francisco, California
 February 25, 2011
 221    Quarterly Financial Data
 Condensed Consolida
ted Statement of Income 
- Quarterly (Unaudited)
                                               2010
   2009               Quarter ended
   Quarter ended
 (in millions, except per share amounts)
   Dec. 31
 Sept. 30
 June 30
 Mar. 31
   Dec. 31
 Sept. 30
 June 30
 Mar. 31
 Interest income
 $  12,969
   13,130
   13,472
   13,225
     13,692
   13,968
   14,301
   14,313
  Interest expense
    1,906
   2,032
   2,023
   2,078
     2,192
   2,284
   2,537
   2,937
  Net interest income
    11,063
   11,098
   11,449
   11,147
     11,500
   11,684
   11,764
   11,376
  Provision for credit losses
    2,989
   3,445
   3,989
   5,330
     5,913
   6,111
   5,086
   4,558
  Net interest income after provision for credit 
losses
    8,074
   7,653
   7,460
   5,817
     5,587
   5,573
   6,678
   6,818
  Noninte
rest income
                     Service charges on deposit accounts
    1,035
   1,132
   1,417
   1,332
     1,421
   1,478
   1,448
   1,394
  Trust and investment fees
    2,958
   2,564
   2,743
   2,669
     2,605
   2,502
   2,413
   2,215
  Card fees
    941   935   911   865     961   946   923   853  Other fees
    1,063
   1,004
   982   941     990   950   963   901  Mortgage banking
    2,757
   2,499
   2,011
   2,470
     3,411
   3,067
   3,046
   2,504
  Insurance
    564   397   544   621     482   468   595   581  Net gains from trading activities
    532   470   109   537     516   622   749   787  Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for 
sale
    (268)
  (114)
  30   28     110   (40)
  (78)
  (119)
 Net gains (losses) from equity investments
    317   131   288   43     273   29   40   (157)
 Operating leases
    79   222   329   185     163   224   168   130  Other
    453   536   581   610     264   536   476   552    Total noninterest income
    10,431
   9,776
   9,945
   10,301
     11,196
   10,782
   10,743
   9,641
  Noninterest expense
                     Salaries
    3,513
   3,478
   3,564
   3,314
     3,505
   3,428
   3,438
   3,386
  Commission and incentive compensation
    2,195
   2,280
   2,225
   1,992
     2,086
   2,051
   2,060
   1,824
  Employee benefits
    1,192
   1,074
   1,063
   1,322
     1,144
   1,034
   1,227
   1,284
  Equipment
    813   557   588   678     681   563   575   687  Net occupancy
    750   742   742   796     770   778   783   796  Core deposit and other intangibles
    549   548   553   549     642   642   646   647  FDIC and other deposit assessments
    301   300   295   301     302   228   981   338  Other
    4,027
   3,274
   3,716
   3,165
     3,691
   2,960
   2,987
   2,856
    Total noninterest expense
    13,340
   12,253
   12,746
   12,117
     12,821
   11,684
   12,697
   11,818
  Income before income tax expense
    5,165
   5,176
   4,659
   4,001
     3,962
   4,671
   4,724
   4,641
  Income tax expense
    1,672
   1,751
   1,514
   1,401
     949   1,355
   1,475
   1,552
  Net income before
                       noncontrolling interests
    3,493
   3,425
   3,145
   2,600
     3,013
   3,316
   3,249
   3,089
  Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
    79   86   83   53     190   81   77   44  Wells Fargo net income 
 $  3,414
   3,339
   3,062
   2,54
7     2,823
   3,235
   3,172
   3,045
  Less: Preferred stock dividends
                      and accretion and other
   182   189   184   175     2,429
   598   597   661  Wells Fargo net income
             applicable to common stock
 $  3,232
   3,150
   2,87
8   2,372
     394   2,637
   2,575
   2,384
  Per share information
                     Earnings per common share
 $  0.62
   0.60
   0.55
   0.46
     0.08
   0.56
   0.58
   0.56
  Diluted earnings per common share
    0.61
   0.60
   0.55
   0.45
     0.08
   0.56
   0.57
   0.56
  Dividends declared per common share
    0.05
   0.05
   0.05
   0.05
     0.05
   0.05
   0.05
   0.34
  Average common shares outstanding
    5,256.2
   5,240.1
   5,219.7
   5,190.4
     4,764.8
   4,678.3
   4,483.1
   4,247.4
  Diluted average common shar
es outstanding
    5,293.8
   5,273.2
   5,260.8
   5,225.2
     4,796.1
   4,706.4
   4,501.6
   4,249.3
  Market price per common share (1)
                       High
   $  31.61
   28.77
   34.25
   31.99
     31.53
   29.56
   28.45
   30.47
    Low
      23.37
   23.0
2   25.52
   26.37
     25.00
   22.08
   13.65
   7.80
    Quarter
-end
      30.99
   25.12
   25.60
   31.12
     26.99
   28.18
   24.26
   14.24
                                                                  (1)
 Based on daily prices reported on the New York S
tock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System.
 222      Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable
-Equivalent Basis) 
- Quarterly (1) (2) 
- (Unaudited)
                                                       Quarter ended December 31,
                          2010
             2009                          Interest
           Interest
                 Average
 Yields/
     income/
   Average
 Yields/
     income/
 (in millions)
   balance
 rates
     expense
   balance
 rates
     expense
 Earning assets
                         Federal funds sold, securities purchased under
                           resale agreements and other short
-term investments
 $  72,029
   0.40
  % $  74     46,031
   0.33
  % $  39  Trading assets
    33,871
   3.56
       302     23,179
   4.0
5       235  Debt securities available for sale (3):  
                           Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
    1,670
   2.80
       12     2,381
   3.54
       21    Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
    18,398
   5.58
       255     13,574
   6.48
       217    Mortgage
-backed securities:
                             Federal agencies
    80,459
   4.48
       859     85,063
   5.43
       1,099
      Residential and commercial
    33,365
   10.95
       850     43,243
   9.20
       1,000
        Total mortgage
-backed securities
    113,824
   6.35
       1,709
     128,306
   6.74
       2,099
    Other debt securities (4)
    37,793
   6.15
       545     33,710
   7.60
       600          Total debt securities available for sale (4)
    171,685
   6.18
       2,521
     177,971
   6.84
       2,937
  Mortgages held for sale (5)
    45,063
   4.39
       495     34,750
   5.13
       446  Loans held for sale (5)
    1,140
   5.15
       15     5,104
   2.48
       32  Loans:
                           Commercial:
                             Commercial and industrial
    147,866
   4.71
       1,755
     164,050
   4.65
       1,918
      Real estate mortgage
    99,188
   3.85
       961     97,296
   3.49
       855      Real estate construction
    26,882
   3.68
       250     38,364
   2.98
       289      Lease financing
    13,033
   9.00
       293     14,107
   10.20
       360      Foreign
    30,986
   3.57
       279     30,086
   3.74
       283        Total commercial
    317,955
   4.42
       3,538
     343,903
   4.28       3,705
    Consumer:
                             Real estate 1
-4 family first mortgage
    228,802
   5.06
       2,901
     232,273
   5.26
       3,066
      Real estate 1
-4 family junior lien mortgage
    97,673
   4.37
       1,075
     103,584
   4.58
       1,195
      Credit card
    21,888
   13.44
       736     23,717
   12.18
       723      Other revolving credit and installment
    87,357
   6.48
       1,427
     88,963
   6.46
       1,450
        Total consumer
    435,720
   5.61
       6,139
     448,537
   5.71
       6,434
          Total loans (5)
    753,675
   5.11
       9,677
     792,440
   5.09
       10,139
  Other
    5,338
   3.93
       51     6,147
   3.13
       49            Total earning assets
 $  1,082,801
   4.87
  % $  13,135
     1,085,622
   5.12
  % $  13,877
  Funding sources
                         Deposits:
                           Interest
-bearing checking
 $  60,879
   0.09
  % $  15     61,229
   0.15
  % $  23    Market rate and other savings
    431,171
   0.25
       266     389,905
   0.31
       303    Savings certificates
    79,146
   1.43
       285     109,306
   1.66
       458    Other time deposits
    13,438
   2.00
       67     16,501
   2.28
       94    Deposits in foreign offices
    55,463
   0.21
       29     59,870
   0.23
       35      Tota
l interest
-bearing deposits
    640,097
   0.41
       662     636,811
   0.57
       913  Short
-term borrowings
    50,609
   0.24
       31     32,757
   0.18
       14  Long
-term debt
    160,801
   2.86
       1,153
     210,707
   2.31
       1,218
  Other liabilit
ies
    8,258
   3.13
       65     5,587
   3.49
       50      Total interest
-bearing liabilities
    859,765
   0.89
       1,911
     885,862
   0.99
       2,195
  Portion of noninterest
-bearing funding sources
    223,036
   -       -     199,760
   -       -            Total funding sources
 $  1,082,801
   0.71
       1,911
     1,085,622
   0.81
       2,195
  Net interest margin and net interest income on 
                           a taxable
-equivalent basis 
(6)
       4.16
  % $  11,224
       4.31
  % $  11,682
  Noninterest
-earning assets
                         Cash and due from banks
 $  18,016
             19,216
          Goodwill
    24,832
             24,093
          Other
    111,388
             110,525
                    Total noninterest
-earning assets
 $  154,236
             153,834
          Noninterest
-bearing funding sources 
                         Deposits
 $  197,943
             179,204
          Other liabilities
    52,930
             45,058
          Total equity
    126,399
             129,332
          Noninterest
-bearing funding sources used to
                           fund earning assets
    (223,036)
            (199,760)
                   Net noninterest
-bearing funding sources
 $  154,236
             153,834
                      Total assets
 $  1,237,037
             1,239,456
                                                                                      (1)
 Our average prime rate was 3.25% for the quarters ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The average three
-month London Interbank Offered Rat
e (LIBOR) was 0.29% 
and 0.27% for the same quarters, respectively.
 (2)
 Interest rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset a
nd liability categories.
 (3)
 Yields and rates are based on interest 
income/expense amounts for the period, annualized based on the accrual basis for the respective accounts. The average balance
 amounts include the effects of any unrealized gain or loss marks but those marks carried in other comprehensive income are no
t inc
luded in yield determination of affected 
earning assets. Thus y
ields are based on amortized cost balances computed on a settlement date basis.
 (4)
 Includes certain preferred securities.
 (5)
 Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan 
categories.
 (6)
 Includes taxable
-equivalent adjustments 
of $161 million and $182 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively 
primarily related to tax
-exempt income on certain loans and securities. The federal statutory tax rate was 
35% for the periods presented.
 223    ACL
 Allowance for credit losses
 Glossary of Acronyms
  ALCO 
 Asset/Liability Management Committee
 ARS
  Auction rate security
 ASC
  Accounting Standards Codification
 ASU
 Accounting Standards Update
 ARM
  Adjustable
-rate mortgag
e AVM 
 Automated valuation model
 CD Certificate of deposit
 CDO
  Collateralized debt obligation
 CLO  Collateralized loan obligation
 CLTV
 Combined loan
-to-value
 CMO
 Collateralized mortgage obligation
 CPP
  Capital Purchase Program
 CPR
 Constant prepayment rate
 CRE
 Commercial real estate
 ESOP
 Employee Stock Ownership Plan
 FAS
 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
 FASB
  Financial Accounting Standards Board
 FDIC
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 FHA
  Federal Housing Administration
 FHLB
  Federal Home Loa
n Bank
 FHLMC
  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Company
 FICO
 Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating)
 FNMA
  Federal National Mortgage Association
 FRB
 Federal Reserve Board
 GAAP 
 Generally 
accepted 
accounting 
principles
 GNMA
 Government National Mortgage Association
 GSE
 Government
-sponsored entity
 HAMP
 Home Affordability Modification Program
 HPI
 Home Price Index
 IRA
 Individual Retirement Account
 LHFS
  Loans held for sale
 LIBOR
  London Interbank Offered Rate
 LOCOM
 Lower of cost or market value
 LTV
  Loan
-to-value
 MBS
 Mortgage
-backed security
 MERS
 Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc.
 MHFS
  Mortgages held for sale
 MSR
  Mortgage servicing right
 NAV
  Net asset value
 NPA
 Nonperforming asset
 OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 OCI Other comprehensive income
 OTC
 Over
-the
-counter
 OTTI
  Other
-than
-temporary impairment
 PCI Loans
 Purchased credit
-impaired loans
 PPS Perpetual preferred securities
 PTPP
 Pre
-tax pre
-provision profit
 QSPE
  Qualifying special purpose entity
 RBC
 Risk
-based capital
 ROA
 Wells
 Fargo net in
come to average total assets
 ROE
 Wells
 Fargo net income applicable to common stock to 
average Wells
 Fargo common stockholders' equity
 RSR
 Restricted share right
 SCAP
  Supervisory Capital Assessment Program
 SEC 
 Securities and Exchange Commission
 S&P
 Standa
rd & Poor
™s SIV
  Structured investment vehicle
 SPE 
 Special purpose entity
 TARP
 Troubled Asset Relief Program
 TDR 
 Troubled debt restructuring
 TLGP
  Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
 VA Department of Veterans Affairs
 VaR
  Value
-at
-risk
 VIE
 Variable int
erest entity
 WFFCC
 Wells
 Fargo Financial Canada Corporation
 WFFI
 Wells
 Fargo Financial, Inc. a
nd its wholly
-owned 
subsidiaries
    224Page intentionally left blank
Page intentionally left blank
These graphs compare the cumulative total stockholder return 
and total compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for our common 
stock (NYSE: WFC) for the five
- and ten
-year periods ended 
December 31, 2010, with the cumulative total stockholder 

returns for the same periods for the Keefe, Bruyette and Woods 
(KBW) Total Return
 Bank Index (KBW Bank Index (BKX)) 
 and the S&P 500 Index. 
 Stock Performance
  The cumulative total stockholder returns (including 
reinvested dividends) in the graphs assume the investment 
 of $100 in Wells Fargo™s common stock, the KBW Bank Index 

and the S&P 500 Index.
   Five Year Performance Graph
    Ten Year Performance Graph
 225226Common stockWells Fargo & Company is listed and trades on the  New York Stock Exchange: WFC5,262,283,228 common shares outstanding (12/31/10)Stock purchase and dividend reinvestmentYou can buy Wells Fargo stock directly from Wells Fargo, even if you™re not a Wells Fargo stockholder, through 
optional cash payments or automatic monthly deductions 
from a bank account. You can also have your dividends 
reinvested automatically. It™s a convenient, economical  

way to increase your Wells Fargo investment.Call 1-877-840-0492 for an enrollment kit including  a plan prospectus.Form 10-KWe will send Wells˜Fargo™s 2010 Annual Report on 
Form˜10-K (including the ˚nancial statements ˚led with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission) free to any 
stockholder who asks for a copy in writing. Stockholders 
also can ask for copies of any exhibit to the Form 10-K.  We will charge a fee to cover expenses to prepare and send 
any exhibits. Please send requests to: Corporate Secretary, 
Wells Fargo & Company, Wells Fargo Center, MAC N9305-
173, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, MN 55479.
SEC ˚lingsOur annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on 
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments 
to those reports are available free of charge on our website 
(www.wellsfargo.com) as soon as practical after they are 
electronically ˜led with or furnished to the SEC. Those 
reports and amendments are also available free of charge 
on the SEC™s website at www.sec.gov.Independent registered public  accounting ˚rmKPMG LLP San Francisco, California 
1-415-963-5100ContactsInvestor Relations 
415-371-2921 
investorrelations@wellsfargo.comShareholder Services and  Transfer Agent 
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services 
P.O. Box 64854 
Saint Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854 
1-877-840-0492 
www.wellsfargo.com/com/ 
shareowner_servicesAnnual Stockholders™ Meeting 1:00 p.m., Tuesday, May 3, 2011 
Julia Morgan Ballroom 
Merchants Exchange Building 
465 California Street 
San Francisco, CaliforniaOur reputationFortune 
Among the World™s Most Admired 
Companies, Among the 20 Largest  
in the U.S. based on revenueForbes Top 100 Best Companies in the worldAmerican Customer Satisfaction  Index (ACSI) 
Best among large banksBarron™s Among World™s 50 Most  
Respected CompaniesBusinessWeek America™s #2 Most Generous  
Corporate FoundationNewsweek Among America™s Top 50  
Greenest Big CompaniesWells Fargo & CompanyForward-Looking Statements  This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes, contains forward-
looking statements, which may include forecasts of our ˜nancial results and condition, expectations for our operations and business, and our 

assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may di˚er materially from our 

forward-looking statements due to several factors. Some of these factors are described in the Financial Review and in the Financial Statements and 

related Notes. For a discussion of other factors, refer to ﬁForward-Looking Statementsﬂ and ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ in the Financial Review.U.S. Banker and American Banker 
One of America™s Top Banking TeamsDiversityInc Among Top 50 Companies for 
Diversity, Top 10 Companies for 
Asian Americans, Top 10 Companies 
for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and 
Transgender Employees LATINAStyle Among Best Companies for LatinasCAREERS & the disABLED Among Top 50 Employers  Human Rights Campaign Perfect Score on Corporate  
Equality IndexWorkforce Diversity for  Engineering & IT Professionals 
Among Top Employers  
for Workforce DiversityUnited Way of America Summit Award for  
Exceptional VolunteerismO˛ce of the Comptroller  of the Currency 
ﬁOutstandingﬂ rating for  
Community Reinvestment Act 
performance (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.)Trade Finance  #2 Best Trade Bank in the U.S.  
#4 Best Trade Bank in North America Brand Keys #1 Bank Brand in Customer Loyalty 
Engagement Index˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆ
˝˚ˇ˚
˙˘˚
˜˜ˇ
˚
˚
˘˜˚˛
˘˚˚˚

˚˝
˝
˜ˇ
ˆ˚
†˙“
˝˚˙‘˚ˆ˛˚˛

’
ˆ˜ˇ

˜˝ˇ˚
˜˙˛ˆ˛˙ˆ
˚ˆ
˛˚˛˛
˛
˙˚ˆ˚
ˆ˚
ˆˆ‘
˝˙’
˙˙ˆ˛˚˛
˙˛˙˚ˆ˚
˜˘˛˛˙˛˛˙€€˙
˜˛
ˇ˙˚
•˚
˛ˆ˝
˚
˝
˚
ˇ˚˜
‡ˇ˙ˆ˙˚
˜ˇ˙ˆ˙˚
˝˙—˛˚ˆ˙˚

˝ˆ˙˙
˘…ƒ…
˝˛‡˘…
ˆ˛
˚˛˛˚
ˇˇ‹˝˛˚ˆ
˘
…

˝˜ˆ
˝ƒ˚˚˙˙
ˇ
˙˘˚
Wells Fargo across North America and around the world
#1  Banking stores (Wells˚Fargo and Wachovia stores in 39 states & D.C.)
#1 Retail bankin
1 #1  Total stores (Wells˚Fargo and Wachovia stores)

#1  Total mortgage producer; Retail mortgage producer

#1  Mortgage lender to low-to-moderate income home buyers 
(2009˚HMDA data)
#1  Residential mortgage lender

#1  Used car lender (AutoCount 2010)

#1  Small business lender in dollars (2009 Community 
Reinvestment Act government data)
#1  SBA 7(a) lender in dollars (2010 Small Business Administration 
federal ˜ scal year-end data)
#1  Underwriter of preferred stock (FY 2010, Bloomberg)

#1  REIT preferred stock (FY 2010, Thomas Financial)

#1  Real estate lead arranger of loan syndications by volume and 
number of transactions (FY 2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#2  U.S. Deposits

#2 Debit card issuer

#2  Mortgage servicer

#2  Annuity distributor

#2  REIT common stock (FY 2010, Dealogic)
#2  High grade bond secondary trading (FY 2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)

#2  Arranger of asset-based loans by volume and number of 
transactions (FY 2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#2  Non-investment grade loan issuer by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#3  Branded bank ATM owner (12,196 Wells Fargo and Wachovia ATMs)

#3  Full-service retail brokerage provider based on number of 
Financial Advisors and client assets
#3  Loan syndication bookrunner by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#3  High grade corporate loan issuer by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, Thomson Reuters LPC)
#4  Wealth management provider

#5  IRA provider

#5  Family wealth provider

#5  Equity capital markets bookrunner by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010, SDC)
#6  Institutional retirement plan recordkeeper

#7  Issuer of Credit Cards

#7  Merchant processor for Credit and Debit Cards

#7  Top senior manager of municipal competitive bond issues (FY˚2010)

#8  High yield bond issuer by number of transactions 
(FY˚2010,˚Bloomberg)
Countries
Argentina
Australia

Bangladesh

Brazil

Canada

Cayman Islands

ChileChina

Colombia

Dominican Republic

Ecuador

Egypt

England

France
Germany

Hong Kong

India

Indonesia

Ireland

Italy

Japan
Malaysia

Mexico

Philippines

Russia

Singapore

South Africa

South Korea
Spain

Taiwan

Thailand

Turkey

United Arab Emirates

Uruguay

Vietnam
Stores
9,000
state by state 
(map)
ATMs
12,196
wellsfargo.com
23 million
active users
Wells Fargo 
Customer 
Connection
500+ millioncalls, e-mails 
and letters
 ˜  To˚Our˚Owners
 ˛˝  Standing˚Together

 ˜˙  Standing˚Together
 With˚Our˚Communities
 ˆ˛  Board˚of˚Directorsˇ˚Senior˚Leaders

 ˆˆ  Financial˚Review

 ˛˝˜  Controls˚and˚Procedures

 ˛˝˙  Financial˚Statements

 ˜˜˛  Report˚of˚Independent˚Registered˚
Public˚Accounting˚Firm
 ˜˜˘  Stock˚Performance
Wells Fargo & Company
(NYSE:WFC
)We™re a diversi˜ ed ˜ nancial services compan
ommunity-based and relationship-orient

serving people across the nation and around 

the˚world.
Our corporate headquarters is in San˚Francisco, but 
all our stores, regional commercial banking centers, 

ATMs, 
Wells˜Fargo PhoneBank
,SM and internet sites 
are headquarters for satisfying all our customers™ 

˜ nancial needs and helping them succeed ˜ nancially, 

through banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, 

and commercial and consumer ˜ nance.
Assets:
ˆ$1.3˚trillion, 4th among peers

Market value of stock:
ˆ$163˚billion, 
2nd among peers (12/31/10)
Customers:
ˆ70˚million, 
(one of every three U.S. households)
Team members:
ˆ281,000
Stores:
ˆ9,000© 2011 Wells Fargo & Company. All rights reserved.
Sophia B., student Junior Achievement
Jennie L., Wells Fargo banker
Glenn L., Wells Fargo customer
Lisa P., Wells Fargo banker
Robert M., Wells Fargo business relationship manager
Robert M., Wells Fargo business relationship manager
1  FDIC-insured deposits up to $500 million in a single banking store, excludes credit unions.
Our Vision:
Satisfy all our customers™ ˜ nancial needs and help them 
succeed ˜ nancially.
Nuestra Vision:
Deseamos satisfacer todas las necesidades ˜ nancieras 

de nuestros clientes y ayudarlos a tener éxito en el 

área˚˜ nanciera.
Notre Vision:
Satisfaire tous les besoins ˜ nanciers de nos clients 

et les aider à atteindre le succès ˜ nancier.
Wells Fargo & Company˜
˛˝˙ Montgomery Streetˆ

San Francisco, California ˇ˛˘˙˛
ellsfargo.com
WELLS FARGO
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 
2010
 ANNUAL REPORT
STANDING TOGETHER
Wells Fargo & Company Annual Report 2010
Standing together.
Bryan W., Wells Fargo customer
Bryan W., Wells Fargo customer
Bruce H., Wells Fargo customer
Bruce H., Wells Fargo customer
Juliet Z., Wells Fargo phone banker
Gigi D., Wells Fargo director of national partnerships
Gigi D., Wells Fargo director of national partnerships
Adam S., Wells Fargo investment manager
Adam S., Wells Fargo investment manager
Edward R., Wells Fargo home-preservation specialist
Edward R., Wells Fargo home-preservation specialist
Kimberly H., Wells Fargo trainer
