Wells Fargo & Company
 Annual Report 2013 
The right people. The right markets. The right model.
Serving customers in the real economy. 
  
er
inancia
erformanc
FinancRevie
elationshiransaction
• Controlocedur
ducatin
• Financiaem
ay
• Rdepenegister
arectoreader

    Serving customers8
ihe real economy.8 
What is the real economy? It’s the ﬁrst-time homebuyer looking 
to buy a ho
me. It’s the bookkeeper 
who needs to make a deposit quickly. It’e veterinarian who sees her business growing. And 

it’s large complike a family business that is one of the 

largest growers and suppliers of produce U.S. 
Wellargo’s Mindi Weber, who has a background in agriculture, 
works side by side with customers like Fowler Packino. 

every day on products and services, from its line of credit to 

treasury management. Co-owner Dennis Parnagiwhose father 

founded Fowler Packing in 1said, “Wellargo ‘’ 

Thederstand our world and our speciﬁc needs and challenges. 

Wellargo has shown me it is committed to agriculture and 

has the personnel and capabilities to do the job right.” To Weber, 
and all Wellargo team members, that means developing deep 

relationships, understanding and serving customers’ needs,  

and helping them succeed ﬁnancially. 
Wells Fargo’s Mindi Weber with the Parnagian brothers, Randy, Philip, Dennis, and Kenny | 
Fresno, California 
John G. Stum
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executiver, 

Wellargo & Compan
To Our Owners, 
2013 was another great ye
thanks to the dedication of o

more than 264,000 team mem

working together toward ou

common vision: To satisfy all o

customers’ ﬁnancial needs an

help them succeed ﬁnancially
Our focus on serving custom
drove outstanding res

ellargo gen

record earnings for th

consecutive ye

were the most proﬁtable U.S

bananked as the world’

most valuable bank by mark

capitaliz
Accomplishments like these are no accident. They are 
es
Having thteam members who work 
together to fulﬁll our customers’ ﬁnancial need
Doing business in the right markboth domestica

and internationally
Operating the right business mbusinesses 

diversiﬁed by opportunity, size, and geography that 

can perform well across a variety of economic and 

interest rate environm
We also understand and embrace the critical role we 

play in our customers’ lives and communities. Although 

the U.S. economy is rebounding, it has been a slow and 

uneven recovery with many people continuing to struggle 

to ﬁnd jobs, start businesses, or save for the future
We believe bankinanellari
when supporting the “reaonomy” by creating ne

helping businesses grow, and promoting the ﬁnancia

well-being of individuals. For us, this means keeping 

deposits safe, lending responsibly and fairly, helping 

students pay for college and customers plan for their 

ﬁnancial futures, supplying needed capital to busin

of all sizes, and investing in clso 

means instilling conﬁdence in our customers as their 

ﬁnancial partnom providin
g checking accounts and automobile loans to treasury management and 

investment banking servic
As we have grown over the years, we have never 
lost our focus on the basics of bankinproviding 

our customers products and services when, where, and 

how they need thanve never lost touch with 

our roots as a “Meet” ﬁnancial provider, even a

we’ve developed a global reach to support our business 

customers. These roots and our vision provide the 

foundation for Wellargo’s continued succ
Financial res
joyed another strong year. Our net incom

for the year wacent from 2012. 

Diluted earnings per common share rcent to 

$3.89. Our 2013 revenue of $8as 
balanced 
between net interest income and noninterest income, 

reﬂecting the strength of our diversiﬁed business model. 

Each primary business segment grew net income year 

over year: Community Banking bcent, Wholesale 

Banking bcent, and Wealth, Brokerage and 

Retirement by 2c
We increased loans and deposits, a good sign 
for the overall economy. Total loans ﬁnished 2013 at 

$82cent from 2012. Loan growth 

occurred across multiple portfolios, including commercia

loans, mortgages, credit cards, and automobile lending

Total deposits reached a recorc

from the prior year
Credit quality continued to improve as 2013 credit 
losses fcent improvement over 

et charopped to their 

lowest levels in recent hi0.4cent of average 

loans in fourth quarter 2013, comparcent 

in fo
Our capital also gre
w and remained well abov
regulatory minimum levels. Our Tommon equity 
at the end of 2013 was $12cent 

from 2012, resulting in a Tommon equity ratio 

cent under Bander Baapital 

rules, our estimated Common Equity Tas 

9.76
cent.
We also increased returns for our shareholders. Our 
full-year return on assets rcasi

points from 2012, and our full-year return on equity was 

13.87casis points fr

returnhareholders through dividend

and share repurchases. We increased our regular 

quarterly dividend bcents per share

and purchashares of our common stock 

e are further pleased that the market rewarded 

our shareholders, as our common stock price increased 

c
We are proud of wh
at we accomplish
because the results reﬂect how we are helping our 

customers. And we know the road ahead will continue to 

require a strong commitment to our customers and the 

communities we serve
Helping individuals and businesses  
in the real econom
We recognize the struggles many are experiencing in thi
economy and remain committed to doing all that we c

help individuals and businesses prosper and succeed. W

support the real economy in many ways, including enablin

people to buy new homes, providing needed capital for 

business investment and expansion, and helping consum

plan for retirem
Creating new homeowners and helping keep people 
eir hom

Housing is a cornerstone of the economy, and 

homeownership is the foundation of neighborhoods 

large and small. For most people, their home is their 

largest and most important asset. We are proud to be th

nation’s largest home lender, and every day get to see 

ere
nce that a home can make in people’s liv
eir c
ovided ﬁnancinonsum
to purchase homes or reﬁnance existing mortgages. 

Buying a home typically fuels additional spendin

nee, appliances, or renovationthat ben

local businesses and creates jobs. Because of this 

multiect, a housing recovery has led every 

economic recovery in recent history
Just as important, we are helping people stay in their 
homes. Wellargo is a leader in preventing foreclosur

since 2009, we have completed more than 904,000 hom

loan modiﬁcations and provided $7cipa
1 For more information regarding our regulatory capital and related ratios determined 
under Basel I and Basel III, please see the “Financial Review – Capital Management” 

section in this Report. 
forgiveness. We also have participated in nearly 1,200 
home preservation events, including hosting 107 of our 

own workshops where we have met one-on-one with 

nearly 45,000 customers facing ﬁnancial hardshi
ddition, through Wellargo LIFT programs, we 
er down payment assistance and education to potentia

homeowners in communities most deeply impacted b
the recession. We have committed $1ur 

LIFT programs, and since early 2012, we have provided 

down payment assistance to help more than 5,000 people 

buy homarkxpanded our 

assistance through 
UrbanLIFT
,SM a program that awarded 
nproﬁts to 
accelerate economic recovery and neighborhood improvement 

projects in 2ommunities across the U.S
Meeting the needs of businesses – small and lar
We know for our economy to fully recover, we need 

businesses to grow
 and add jobs. Small businesses are 
the growth engines in every community, and as the 

nation’s largest lender to small businesses, we are helping 

business owners every day get the capital and ﬁnancia

services they n
ellargo extenew loan 
commitments to small businesses (primarily those with 

annual revenues of less thcent 

from 2012. We were the nation’s largest provider of 

Small Business Administration (SBA) loans based on 

dollar volume for the ﬁfth consecutive year. Wellargo 

approved a record $1.4a) loans during 

federal ﬁscal year 2013 (eptem), 

cent from the prior year
We also fund mid-sized and large companies, helping 
them grow both domestically and internationally. 

ur average commercial and industrial loans 

rcent from 2012. We work 

side by side with these businesses through our extensiv

network of commercial bankines in a

providing our commercial customers with ﬁnancia

services like treasury management, insurance, capital 

ﬁnance, asset-based lending, commercial real estate, and 

foreign exchange. We alses in internationa

locationincluding Hong Kong, London, Sydney, and 

Toreet the global needs of our corporate 

customers and provide services to ﬁnancial institutions 

around th
Helping people plan and prepare for retirem
As a leading retirement services prodminister 

abossets and $2k) 

and institutional retirement plan aWellargo 

understands the importance of investing and saving for 

the future
About 10,000 people retire every day, and most are 
expected to live longer in retirement than their parents an

grandparents. Yet study after study shows that too man

Americans are not adequately prepared for retirement and 
                               face the possibility of outliving their savings, which could 

severely impact our economyct, the Wellargo 

Middle Class Retirement Survey released last fall revealed 

that nearly one-half of Americans are not conﬁdent the

will be able to save enough for a comfortable retirement. 

One-third say they will have to work until at least a
We believe the best way to ﬁll that gap is with 
planning. Wellargo is a leaering guidance an

individualized plans for all customers. Our research shows 

that customers with written plans are more conﬁdent in 

their ability to live comfortably in their retirement years. 

That is why we continue to promote the beneﬁts of plannin

aner free online services such a
Mlan
which we introduced in l
We also help people understand the importanc
of saving through ﬁnancial education programs like  

® and workplace seminars at 

companies for which we manage 401(k) and employ

retireman
Road to economic recov
While the economic recovery continues to move at a s

pace, we 
believe there are man
reasons to 
be bullis
.S. companies are known for their innov

ey driver of business competitiveness and long-term 

economic grverything from biotechnology 

and medical devices to wireless technology, socia

networking, and cloud computing
The U.S. also has become a world leader in energy 
production and the use of clean energy sources, which i

creating new jobs and decreasing our reliance on imports. 

The manufacturing sector continues to improve and 

show signs of sustainable growth. And let’s not forget 

agricultureold close to my heart as one of 11 

children who grew up on a small family farm in Minn
ellargo exten
ew lo

commitments to small busin

cent fr
We are proud to be the nation’s largest agricultura
business lender. Agricultural production has rebounded 

in America: Today, we export more food than we import, 

and Americans enjoordable and safe food supply
The U.S. housing market also is better positioned 
than it was a year ago. Though mortgage rates hav

risen, they remain very low from a historical perspective

Traditional buyers are coming back into the market, 

which should allow for more trade-up activity. Demand 

should improve further if labor markets continue to 

stabilize. Demographic factors also should help, as retirin

baby boomers boost demand for homes in active adult 

communities and retiree mark
Full economic recovery will take time, but we can look 
into the future with conﬁdence and a deep appreciation 

e tremendous opportunities ahea
Our strat
To meet the needs of our customers and help grow the 

overall economy, we will continue to focus on our strategic 

priorities, which create a shared sense of purpose across 

our approximately 90 businesses. Guided by our common 

vision and values, these priorities provide a clear path 

for team members to collaborate across organizationa

borders and focus on serving our customers as one team, 

something we call Onellargo
The six priorities ar
Putting custom
• Growing rev

• Managing expen

Living our vision and val
Connecting with communities and stakeh
• Managing ris
Putting customers ﬁr
At Wellargo we put customers ﬁrst, in everything 

that we do. Helping customers succeed ﬁnancially b

serving all of their ﬁnancial needs is the very foundation 

of our success. We do that through building long-lasting 

relationships, one customer at a time. That’s wh

we are in the relationship business: We start with what 

customers need, not with what we want to provide th
We proudly serve the ﬁnancial needs of more than 
7ustomers and one in three U.S. households. 

Each quarter, we provide about 357,000 new or reﬁnanc

automobile loans to customers. Each month, we 

provide ﬁnancing to about 125,000 customers so the

can purchase homes or reﬁnance existing mortgages. 
    
 Our Performanc
xcharo
an
F
Wellarcom

Wellarcompplicaomm
Dilarningommhar
Proﬁtabilit
WellarcomveraA
Wellarcompplicaommvera
Wellaromm
c
Totaev

Provi
Dividendarommhar
Averaommharutstandin
Dilveraommharutstandin
Averaan

Avera
Averaor
Averaor
Nar
A

Investm

Loa
Allowanc
Cor
Wellar
Tota
Tapita
Totaapita
Capita
Tota
Risasapita
Tapita
Totaapita
Tvera
Tomm
Commharutstandin
alommhar

Teemactivva
1 atio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income). 
2 Pre-tax pre-provision proﬁt (PTPP) is total revenue less noninterest expense. Management believes that PTPP is a useful ﬁnan
cial measure because it enables investors and others 
ess the Company’s ability to generate capital to cover credit losses through a credit cycle. 
3 Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certiﬁcates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). 
4 Retail core deposits are total core deposits excluding Wholesale Banking core deposits and retail mortgage escrow deposits. 

5 See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 

6 See the “Financial Review – Capital Management” section in this Report for additional information. 
                
  
          Eaovide on average abo
in new credit to small businesses so they can grow. 

ach day, we
 make it possible for people to pa
deposit checks, and get the cash they ng 

the essentials right, we earn more opportunities to 
servustom
We strive to deliver a consistent, value-added 
experience every time a customer intera

ver the phone, at one of our more than 

TMs, online, or through a mobile device

Increasingly, customers rely on these interconnected 

channels and expect to conduct business with us in 

multiple ways. Fxample, while mobile is our fastest-

growing channel with more than

ese same customers also want the option of visitin

etail bank store to 
open accounts, transact business, scuss ﬁnancial m
We will continue to invest in each of our channels 
to provide the most value to our custom

dded a text receipt option at our ATMs, becoming 

the ﬁrst baner customers ATM receipts by text 

and email, which is great for the environment. Our onlin

banking presence also improved with a new tablet-

friendly home page. And innovative tools in our stores 

help bankers better serve the needs of our customers. 

Wlso continue to expand our presencal medi

channelFacebook, YouTube, Google+, LinkedIn, 

and Tonnect and communicate with 

kekeh
Regardless of the channel that a customer chooses, 
our focus is on providin
g exceptional service every 
time. We know excellent customer experiences lead to 

more opportunities to increase customer loyalty and 

greferrals
Growing rev
Revenue is a key measure of how well we are serving 

existing customers and gaining new ones. When we  

serve customers well, the money we earn is the result.  

Wever put the stagecoach ahead of the horses. W

ourselves as a growth company and generate revenue 

across a diverse set of businfrom traditiona

banking to brokerage to capital markontrolled 

and sustainable ways that reﬂect our risk tolerance
We clearly beneﬁted from our diversiﬁed business 
msing long-term interest rates 

slowed reﬁnance volume and impacted our mortgag

revenue, we experienced growth in other businesses 

such as asset-backed ﬁnance, asset management, capita

markets, commercial real estate, corporate banking

credit cards, retail brokerage, small business lending

aneasury managem
Another key gauge of how we are satisfying the needs 
of our customers is how many products they hav

ourth quarter 2013, the average Retail Bank household 

had 6.16 Wellargo products, up from 6.05 in fourth 
quarter 2012, while our average Wholesale Banking 

household had 7oducts, and our average Wealth, 

Brokerage and Retirement household ha
ontinue to look for opportunities 
to deepen relationships with customers and grow 

revenue. Two areas of particular focus include earning 

more business from ouent customers (those with 

$100,000 or more in deposits and/or investable assets) 

and growing our credit card portfolio
Abour Retail Bank households 
hold signiﬁcant investments or deposits at other 

companies. We are starting to serve more of these 

customers’ ﬁnancial needs through the Community 

Bank and our brokerage business, Wellargo 

Advisors, as we work together to expanduent 

customelationshi
We also continue to increase the portion of retail 

households with a Wellargo credit card, which 

wacent at the end of 2013, up frcent 

e have a number of credit card strategies 

in place, including expanded rewards and innovativ

partnerships with Visa and American Expr
Managing expen

Managing expenses means that every dollar we spend i

aligned with our vision and priorities. This ensures we 

are spending money on the right things, investing in the 

right technologies and products, and focusing on our 

customers. Managing expenses well allows us to realiz

the full beneﬁts of our size and scale without diminishing 

customer experiences or increasing operational ris
One measure we track closely is ocy ratio 
(how much expense we incur for every dollar of revenue 

we ecy ratio wacent, 

provement of 20 basis points from 2012 and within 

our target ranc
Some of the ways we managed expen
included aligning personnel costs with demand in rate-

sensitive businesses like mortgage and making mor

ur real estate. Since 2009, we hav

reduced our t
otal real estat
e space bfrom 
e feet to aboeet. 

One example is in Chicago, where last year we 

consolidated about 40 Wellargo businesses and 700 

team members across several downtown buildings into 

a new, state-of-the-art regional headquarters at the 

Chicaercantile Center.

 Walso 
continue to make etail 
bank store 
space without sacriﬁcing personal service
We love our network of approximately 6,200 retail ban

stores and the convenience and individual attention 

they provide our customan to grow 

the number of bank stores in supermarkets in the East, 

joining about 460 such stores in our Western mark
    
                        Our vision and val
apart from our com

Theorm the basis of our cultur

and deﬁne who we are
ddition, we began testing a new retail bank store 
format that is about 1,000 square feet, roughly a third 
of the size of a typical new storeed 

the ﬁrst of these stores in the NoMa neighborhood in 

Washin.C. These stores can be located in smaller 

spaces while still providing perso
nalized service and technologies like wireless devices and large-screen ATMs. 

We are evaluating this concept and will determine the 

next steps as part of our overall retail bank store strategy
Living our vision and val
Our vision and values set us apart from our competitors. 

They form the basis of our culture and deﬁne who we 

are. It’s through our vision and values that we operate a

one team. It’s not about I, me, and mine; it’s about we, us, 

and ours. We say “teembers” and not “employees” 

because we view our team members as resources to be 

invested in, not expenses to be managed. It’s why we train 

our leaders to coach and inspire team members and work 

togethellarchievour vi
eep my 41-page 
Vision & Values
y
anow many of our team members do as well.  

Bs not the words in the document that are im

It’s how we embody these words in all th

fellow team members, customers, communities, 

anhareh
One core value is our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion. We attract and retain diverse team members 

and serve a diverse customer base, but we realize there 

ilways more that can be done
As chair of our enterprise Diversity and Inclusion 
Counommitted to our company’orts to 

embrace and promote diversity in all aspects of our 

business, at all levels of our company. That is wha

pleased to see seven of our senior-most female leaders 

recognized last year b
American Banker
 in its annual 
“Mowerful Womking” issue, and Wellar

named b
DiversityInc magazine as the top compa
for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender employees,  

and b
Essence
 magazine as
 one of the top places to work for African American wom
We also focus on how we serve diverse markets. Last 
year, we formed a Korean division in Wholesale Banking

announced a goal to lend a cumulativ

women-owned businesses by the year 2020, and produc

marketing that reﬂected the people and cultures we serve

including a TV ad for the Asian market that was honor

by the Association of National Adverti
Connecting with communities and stakeholder
Our reputation will continue to be one of our most 

important assets, inﬂuenced by what we do and how 

we connect with our communities and stakeholders. 

Wppreciate that public sentiment toward the nation’

largest ﬁnancial institutions is still a challenge, and 

we continue to work hard to rebuild trust. Across the 

industry, mistakes clearly were made leading up to 

thancial crisis of 2008, as some competitors put 

proﬁts before their customers’ inter
While Wellargo didn’t do everything right, we did 
do many things right. We avoided the risky practices 

that hurt other banks during the ﬁnancial crisis, and we 

consistently focused on responsible, traditional banking 

practices that customers and communities expect and 

rely on. Over the past several years, a number of new 

industry reforms 
and regulations have
 been put in place to create a safer and stronger ﬁnancial services industry, 

and we are committed to the spirit and speciﬁcs of 

thequirem
Wellargo continues to actively support the 
revitalization and growth of the economy, including 

in our hardest-hit cellargo 

contributed $27onproﬁts nationwide

as especially pleased that we ranked at the top of 

The Chronicle of Philanthropy
’s 2013 ranking of most 
philanthropic companies (based on 2012 giving), even 

though we are not the largest company (25th on the 

Fortunst of America’s largest companies
Team members drive our connection with 
communities and stakehlone, the

contributed a record $8ools, charitable 

organizations, and other nonproﬁt grocent 

from 2012. Team members also volunteer

hodoing everything from helping children 

learn to read in local schools to serving food at homeless 

sheir ccent from 

2012. United Way Worldwide recognized Wellargo for 

having the nation’s Nonited Way campaign for the 

ﬁfth consecutive year, based on 2013 giving
ecognized the 20th anniversary of the 
Wellargo Housing Foundation, and we completed the 

5,000th home built by team member vola

sordable housing and community revitaliz

As part of our support to military veterans, we donated 

omunded w
                      ddition, we are supporting environmental  
orts in our communities. Since 2012, we have pro
more thard green building and 

development initiatives, wind and solar projects, and other 

environmental opportunities as part of our commitment 

to probillion of environmental ﬁnancing by 2020. 

We also c
ontinue to reduce the en
vironmental 
impact of our operations, increase our enercy, and decrea

waste. Since 2009, customers have completed more than 

1.1aperless ATM transactions, saving an avera

475 printed ATM receipts per minute. That is enough pa

to circle the earth’s circumference nearly three tim

approximately 7
Managing ris
For more than 160 years, Wellargo has been in the ris

management business. Our risk management practices 

enabled us to emerge from the 2008 ﬁnancial crisis in far 

better shape than many of our com
We are increasing investments in our already strong 
risk management practices and in other vital areas such 

as cybersecurity. Our track record and risk management 

focus allow customers to have conﬁdence in our ethica

standard
s and our ability to 
make good decisions. y
we work hard to ensure that appropriate controls are 

in place to reduce risks to our customers, maintain and 

increase our competitive market position, and protect 

Wellargo’s long-term safety, soundness, and rep
Although we have seen a lot of change over the 
years, the fundamentals of our risk management culture 

remain the same. We are guided by seven core ris

managemci
• /Relationshifocus. 
Take only as much risk as i
approprilyectively, and prudently 
serve our custom
• /Understanding risk. 
Take only risks that we 
clederstan
• /Reputation. 
Do not engage in activities or business 
practices that could cause permanent or irreparable 

damage to our rep
• /Price for risk. 
Price our business to cover risk to 

capital and retain risk only if priced for a s

risk-adjusted r
• /Conservatism. 
Strive to grow our company, but do so 
only in a way th
at supports our long-term g
oals and does not compromise our ability to manage our ris
• /Operational excellence. 
Maintain the infrastructure
systems, processes, and compliance programs that 

support the ﬁnancial success of our custom
• /Clear acco
untability
Ensure our lines of business hav
primary accountability for risk, w
hile our Corporate 
Risk group provides oversight at the enterprise 

level. Our Corporate Audit group provides an 

independent, objective view to evaluate and improv

thectiveness of our risanagemoc
In appreci
pril 2013, Nicholas G. Moore retired from our board 

of directors after seven years of service to our company. 

Nick provided outstanding leadership as a member of the 

board and chair of the Audit and ExaminCommittee
Also in April 2013, Philip J. Quigley retired after 
1ears on the board. Phil served on and chaired man

committees, and as lead director from 2009 to 2011, h

provided distinguished leadership and insight, which 

were key to Wellargo’s success during a critical time
We thank both Nick and Phil for their long-standing 
service and contributions to Wellargo, and we wis

them all th
We also welcomed James H. Quigley to our board 
im is CEO emeritus and a retired partn

of Deloitte, and we are fortunate to beneﬁt from his 

more than three decades of broad leadership experienc

and extensive audit, ﬁnancial reporting, and ris

managemxpertise
ant to thank all of our stakehboard 
members, team members, customers, communities, and 

sharpin
g make 2013 an outstanding yearlso want to recognize the ﬁve-year anniversary of 

Wellargo’s merger with Wachovia, which we celebrated 

at the enould not be more proud of where our 

company is today and all of our wonderful team members 

who live by our vision and values and work together to 

help our customers achieve ﬁnancial succ
As we look forward, we are conﬁdent in our abilities 
to serve changing customer needs and contribute to 

the economic recovery. We believe we have the right 

people on our team, are in the right markets, and operate 

the right business monat is diversiﬁed and 

positioned to perform well across various economic 

cycles. And we are optimistic about the future for our 

customers, communities, and country
John G. Stumpf 
Chairman, President and Chief Executiver 

Wellargo & Compan
    Relationships,
not transactions. 
In Ames, Iowa, when residents need a Honda car or Nissan truck, 
they think of Lithia Motors, Inc. The dealership’s general manager, 

Mikugherty, is passionate about how his team serves customers 

and also about 
receiving
 outstanding customer service from their 

relationship with Wellargo Dealer Services. 
Wellargo’s Robert Lyles manages the Regional Business Center 
in Omaha, Nebraska, which is one of 54 across the U.S. They keep 

Wellargo credit and loan decisions as close to car dealers and 

customers as possible. Such local knowledge is why Lithia knows 

it can count on Wargo De
aler Services to proroad spectrum of ﬁnancing options during any economic cycle. 
Gougherty said, “I like the fact that, if needed, we can talk about 
the people behind a car deal, because it’s all about relationships, 

nsactions.” He also knows Lithia can count on Wellargo 

fash management, real estate lending, and other services 

thelp the business operate morly. 
Wellargo Dealer Services helped ﬁnance transportation for 
1.2ericans in 2013 and is the top used-car and overall 

auto lender (excluding leases) 
in the U.S. 
Wells Fargo’s Robert Lyles (left) with Mike Gougherty | 
Ames, Iowa 
           “Excellent service is what is 
most importanand I get that
from Wellargo.” 
No two days are alike at the Canal Road Animal Hospita
ach, A
labama, where Juliann
a Taylor =
tends to patients like Peanut the pig and a rescue cat =

named Sebastiall while running the business side =

g
For those reasons and more, Taylor said she’s gla
to have the right bank behind her at work and at hom

the bank that serves more than 1,500 small 

businesses in her home county of Baldwin and million

more acr.S
“I was u
nhapp
with my previous ban
k, and Wargo 
ers all the ﬁnancial services I need,” said Taylor, who 
said being an animal doctor is the only thing she’s ever 

w. “Excellent service is what is most important 

for a bank to provide, and I get that from Wellargo, 

whether it’s on my home mortgage or a loan to expan

my business.
Wellargo District Manager Brian Murphy said, 
“Aational bank, we’re able to provide a wide variety 

of ﬁnancial products to our customers, but we do that 

with the decision making and service of a local bank.

For example, Wellargo ﬁnanced the purchase of new 

equipment and technology that allows Taylor’s customers 

to pay by crar
Now Taylor is ready for the next step in the business =
she founbuilding an addition on lan

Wellargo helped her buy. “The extension to m

existing building will allow me to expand the services =

er my clients and patients.
Julianna Taylor | 
Orange Beach, Alabama            “To have something that’s yours,
it makes a big dierence.” 
Buying your ﬁrst home can be daunting, and connectin
with a lender that cares
lall 
therence. Pamela Sanford found that connection 

ellargo
Sanford and her partner attended a ﬁrst-time homebuy
workshop organized by the Chicago Urban League =

and supported by Wellargo. After the class, the

approached the Wellargo Home Lending team with =

some questions. “We’d been working with someonse,

she said, “bellargo seemed to have all the =

information about down payment assistance programs.

Once they chose to work with Wellargo, Sanfor

“Any questions we had, they would have the answer =

d the answer.
Now, several months and many conversations later, th
couple is living in their new home. “We needed to do thi

for us. To have o
ur own space, an
d to have something 
that’s yours, it makerence. We’re enjoying 

every bit of it,” sh
Wellargo continues to support homebuyer education 
with the Chicago Urban League. “It’s really rewarding 

to help people buy that ﬁrst home,” said Peter de Jong, 

branch manager for the mortgage team in Oak Lawn, 

a community outside the city. “e and team 

members serve many residents in the greater Chicago 

area. We pride ourselves on being knowledgeable about 

mortgage down payment assistance programs that hel

residents achieve theam of homeownership. But m

important, we enjoy 
helping inspir
e residents to
 make thommitment to buy a home in their communit
Andrea L. Zopp, president and CEO of the Chicago =
Urbeague, said, “Homeownership remains the =

foundation of building wealth and strengthening =

communities. We’re grateful to Wellargo for their =

partnership and for supporting the league’orts =

uide people into homes they cord.
Pamela Sanford | 
Chicago, Illinois 
      “Wellargo helps us so we can
focus on our customers.” 
Running a retail business requires perseverance˛—˛ 
anupport 
you can count on. Wellargo has provided 

that support for Urban Outﬁtters, Inc., for 2e
Urbc., which operates the brand
Anthropologie, Free People, Urban Outﬁtters, Terrain, 

and BHLDN, is a specialty retailer headquartered in 

Philadelphia that requires a variety of ﬁnancial products 

and services. Wellargo Relationship Manager Stephen 

Dorosh said, “We support Urban Outﬁtters across their 

brands, at their stores and ces, and aroun

the globe. We provide a range of products and services, 

including treasury managemommercial car

program, depository 
accoevolving line of credit, 
and more.
Wellargo also provides international banking services 
in London and Canada w
hile the Hong Ko
letter of credit processing. “Urban Outﬁtters has a unique 

and laid-back culture,” Dorosh said. “Were the 

company goes, and we take the time to get to know their 

business aneeds.
One example is the commercial card program with 
the 
CE
® service. Wellargo previewed the 

service with the company, and now Urban Outﬁtters’ 

Anna DeMarco, card services administrator, uses the 

CE
 service to take care of critical transactions 

that can’t always wait until she’s back at her desk. 

“Wellargo helps us so we can focus on our customers,” 

sh
That kind of business support lets the company focus 
where it needs to: on its people, its brand, and its custom

“We have always appreciated Wellargo’s approach to 

the relationship. Our success is based upon our ability to 

understand our customers and connect with them on an 

emotional level while delivering compelling and distinct 

products,” said Frank Conforti, chief ﬁnanciaer 

frb
ers store associate | 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
          “I bank with Wells Fargo because8
of the people. It’s high-tech with8
the personal touch.” 
Wellargo is putting technology to work to hel
customers 
like Thiri Einsi, a bookkeeper in Seattle. 

Einsi works for a restaurant in the bustling South Lak

Union neighborhood. And her local Wellargo stor

e high-tech campus of 
Amazon.com
ombines 

old-fashioned service with new technology to provide 

ustomer experience
The store has a largely paperless workﬂow aners =
customers three choices: self-service, assisted service

or full service. That suits Einsi just ﬁne. “I love all the =

technology,” she said, “and I’ve used all three options. =

Bank with Wellargo because of the people. =

It’tech with the personal touch.
For example, tellers have scanners to image checks. =
Sen Einsi is in a hurry and needs to deposit several =

checks, the teller simply asks her to swipe her debit car

in the PIN pad and tap the scr
Like all Wellargo stores, South Lake has smart =
ATMhortcuts that remember customers’ fr

transactions. But that’s not all. Customers at this store =

can access Wellargo mobile, or any site on the internet, =

through a complimentary Wi-Fi hotspot. And the bank

here have secure wireless ta
Store Manager Michael Kleckner said, “Tablets help to =
enhance the customer experience and really show how =

we’re using technology to empower people.
Clio Tarazi of Santa Rosa, California, agrees. While using 
the Wellargo ATM in her neighborhood, Tarazi was 

delighted to see a “Happy Anniversary” message noting h

ears as a customer. The personal message on the ATM 

screen “evoked memories of my father who helped m

open my ﬁrst checkin
g account before I went to college
“It really showed how technology can humanize an =

ATxperience,” sh
Thiri Einsi with Wells Fargo’s Michael Kleckner | 
Seattle, Washington 
Clio Tarazi | 
Santa Rosa, California 
      “Richard is like a brother to us, 
and Wellargo has always
helped us succeed.” 
Long-term relationships are a Wellargo hallmark. 
And working together has por Lord Daniel 

Sportswear of Sunrise, Florida, which has thrived in 

the competitive apparel business feand 

ellargo customer for more than 50. In fact, 

Weaanagement’s Richard Sanz has worked with 

three generations of owners, starting with the late 

Marcus (“Moe”) Stern, who founded the business, son 

Steve Stern, and now grandson Br
Steve said, “Richard is like a brother to us, and =
Wellargo has always helped us succeed. We meet =

egularly to discuss our ﬁnancial needs.” =

Wellargo provides commercial banking services =

ford Daniel Sportswear, and the Sterns use =

Wellargo for their personal banking need
Sanz said, “It’s a beautiful story of a hardworkin
who started a small business and built it to take car

of their family over the years. Moe took great pride in 

watching the business grow along with his family.
Lord Daniel Sportswear designs, manufactures, =
ans a range of apparel, most notably a line of =

U.S. 
ﬂag shirts that are sold online and at retail shops, 

including th
e White House gift sh
op. It also makes 
banded-bottom shirts sold at retailers such as Kohl’s, 

J.C.
enneye
Steve credits customer service as a key reason 
for long-term business success. “Wellargo ha

tremendous customer service, and we’re a customer 

service company, too! We ﬁnd it’s little things, like 

speaking with custom
ers after the
place an order, 
thpart.
Steve Stern (left) with Wells Fargo’s Richard Sanz | 
Sunrise, Florida 
    Educating communities
iays. 
Wellargo wants every community we are in to be better because 
of our presence there. And now, for the ﬁrst time, we are collaborating 

with an entire school district to use our 
Hands on Banking® ﬁnancial 
education program as pe curriculum for students. 
In conjunction with the Missouri Council on Economic Education, 
the 
Hands on Banking curriculum for teens is being incorporated 

into social studies claouis public middle schools. 

“The information will ﬁt in well with our economics curriculum,” 

said John Swanventh-grade social studies teacher at Lyon 

Academyxcited to see my students learn this.” Mike English, 

CEO of the Missouri Council on Economic Education, said, “I think 

this program could be a good ﬁt for schools throughout the state.” 
The 
Hands on Banking program is free and nated with 
anoduct. It is designed to teach money and credit basics to kids, 

adults, entrepreneurs, seniors, and members of the military. The 

handsonbanking.org
 site reaches thousands of users each year in 

more than 1ountries. 
John Swanston | 
St. Louis, Missouri 
     “This will give our children a
place to run around and just
enjoy their new life.” 
U.S. 
Navy veteran Deramichaelous Daniels and his 
family have a new home
 in the Atlanta area, thanks in 
part to a property donated by Wellargo. “Everything 

lately has felt like such an uphill battle, and this is the 

best news that we’vad since I left the Navy,” h
Those who serve in uniform sometimes face challen
upon returning home, including navigating the =

complexities of managing crorts like the one =

organized by SERKET Racing, Wellargo, and the =

nonproﬁt Operation Homefront are helping
“Too many of our vetera
ns are strugglin
g to make endeet,” said Mark Llano, who founded the SERKET 
Racing team and is also the team’s driver. Llano’s 

company, Source One Distribc., is a Wellargo 

Capital Finance customer. SERKET Racing joined 

with the military nonproﬁt Operation Homefront and 

Wellarward homes to veterans at 

thrce ev
“This will provide us with such an amazing opportunity 
and will give our children a p
lace to run around and just 
enjoy their new life,” said Daniels. “Wave discussed 

owning a home since getting married.
All told, Wellargo made 86 home donations to veteran
in 2013 through nonproﬁts like Operation Homefront. 

It’s a model of success: Each veteran who receives a 

home lives there for a triapaying no rent or 

mortgabut is required to attend ﬁnancial education 

courses. At the end of the trial period, the veteran 

receives the deed to the home frar
In 2012, Wellargo c
service members and veterans, includin

real estate owned property donations committed over 

three years to qualifying nonproﬁts that serve military 

service members and veterans
Deramichaelous and Mistie Daniels with children | 
Marietta, Georgia 
Mark Llano | 
Atlanta, Georgia 
    Corporate Social Responsibilit
We focus on investing our resources in the areas our team members, customers, and communities 
tell us they care about most. Here are a few highlights from our ﬁve strategic areas, and 
wnvite you to read our 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report to learn more. 
Community investm
We provide human and ﬁnancial 

resources to help build strong 

communities. 
Philanthropy 
Invested $27onproﬁts
 Community 

development: 31%
 Education: 

Human services: 19%

 Environment: 

Arts & culture: 6%

 Civic: 
Community development 
loanvestm
$5.97
 billion 
Environmental sustainabilit
We focus on integrating 

environmental mindfulness into our 

products, services, and operations. 
Environmental gr

million in 2012 
million in 2013 Environmental loans & investm
More than 
 billion8 
in environmental ﬁnancing 
Product and service responsibilit
We oer all customers responsible 

ﬁnancial advice and solutions for 

now and the future. 
Homeownersh
5,000+ new homeowners helped with 
 million8 
in down payment assistance,  
program support, and local initiatives 

through Wargo LIFT programs  

in 24 housing mark
Small business lendin
. billion8 
in new loan commitments to small 

businesses across the U.S. in 2013 
Te
We support our team members 

professionally, ﬁnancially, 

onally. 
Team member givin
Volunteeri
 million 
in donations pledged in 2013 
1.69
 million ho
Ethical business practic

We ensure all business functions  

run responsibly and ethically. 
Trainin

of eligible team members completed 
the Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct annual training in 2013 
To learn mor
Coming soon, our 2013 Corporate 
Sociaesponsibility Report  
www.wellsfargo.com/about/csr/reports
Wells Fargo & Company
 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 
The right people. The right passion. The right foc
Serving communities in the real economy. 
 Board of Director
John D. Baker II˚ 
Executive Chairm
Patriot Transportation Holding, In

Jacksonville, Florid
(Transportation, real estate 
management) 
Elaine L. Chao˚ 
Former U.S. Secretary of La
Washington, D.
(U.S.
 government) 
John S. Chen˚
6 Executive Chair, CE
Bla

Waterloo, 
Ontario, 
Ca
(Wireless communications) 
Lloyd H. Dean˚ 

President, CE
Dignity Hea

San Francisco, Californi
(Healthcare) 
Susan E. Engel˚ 
Retired Chief Executiv
Portero, In

New York, New Y
(Online luxury retailer) 
Enrique Hernander.˚ 
Chairman, CE
Inter-Con Security System

Pasadena, Californi
(Security services) 
Donald M. James˚ 
Chairman, CE
Vulcan Materials Compa

Birmingham, (Construction materials) 
Cynthia H. Milligan˚ 
Dean Em
College of Business Admini

University of Nebraska –  

Lincoln, Nebrask
(Higher education) Federico F. Peña˚ 
Senior Advi
Vestar Capital Partn

Denver, Colorad
(Private equity) 
James H. Quigley˚ 
1, 7 CEO Em

New York, New Y
(Audit, tax, ﬁnancial advisory) 
Judith M. Runstad˚ 
Of Coun
Foster Pepper PLL

Seattle, Washin
(Law ﬁrm) 
Stephen W. San

Retired Chairman, CE
General Mills, In

Minneapolis, Minn
(Packaged foods) 
John G. Stumpf˚
Chairman, President, CE

Wellargo & Compan
Susan G. Swenson˚ 
Retired President, CE

Sage Software – Neric

Irvine, Californi
(Business software and 
s
Standing Committ
1. Audit and Examination 
2. Corporate Responsibility 
3. Credit 

4. Finance 
5. Governance and Nominating 
6. 
Human Resources 

7. 
Risk 
* Lead Director 
Executivers, Corporat
Wargo Operating Committee 
John G. Stum
David M. Carr
David M. Juli
James R. Richard
pictured (left to right):  
Chairman, President 
Wealth, Brokerage 
Chief Auditor 
Bank Secrecy A
James M. Strother, David A. Hoyt, 


Head of Financial Crimes 
Richard D. Le
Carrie L. Tolstedt, Kevin A. Rhein, 
Paul R. Ackerm
Christi Dea
Contr
Charles D. R
Timothy J. Sloan, Avid Modjtabai, 
Treasurer 
Corporate Strategy 
Enterprise E
John G. Stumpf, David M. Julian, 
Michael J. Lo
Global Services 
David M. Carroll, Michael J. Heid, 
Caryl J. Athanasi
Hope A. Hardis
Chief R
Patricia R. Callahan, and  
Chief Operational 
Human Resources 
James H. R
Avid Modjtab
Michael J. Loughlin 
R
Investor RelationsMichael J. H
Consumer L
Anthony R. A
Home L
Eric D. Shan
Jamie Moldafs
Corporate Secretary 
Chief Loan Examiner 
Bruce E. Hels
Chief Mark
Karl E. By
Corporate Development 
Timothy J. Sloa
Kevin D
Chief Enterprise R
C
Richard C. Hen
Chief Market and 
Patricia R
Ca
Corporate Properties 
Institutional R
James M. Stroth
Chief Administrative 
General Couns
Yvette R. Holling
Kevin A. Rh
Chief Co
Chief Inf
Oscar Suri
Jon R. Cam
Corporate Communications 
David A. Hoy
Joseph J. Ric
Government and 
Wholes
Chief Cr
Carrie L. Tol
Co
Co
* “ Executive oding to Securities and Exchange Commission rules 
                      Senior Business Leader
COMMUNITY B
Group Hea
Carrie L. Tol
Business Banking Gro
Hugh C. Lon
David L. Pope, Business Banking Sales 
and Servic
Debra B. Rossi, Merchant Servic

David J. Rader, SBA Lendin
Deposit Products Gro
Kenneth A. Zimmerm
Daniel I. Ayala, Global Remittance Servic

Edward M. Kadletz,  
Debit and Prepaid Pr
Customer Conn
Diana L. Starch
Digital Channels Gro
James P. S
Regional Bankin
Regional Pr

Paul W. “Chip” Carlisle, South
John T. Gavin, Dallas-Fort W

Glenn V. Godkin, Ho

Lisa J. Riley, New Mexico/Western Bor

Jey Schumache
r, Central T
Kenneth A. Telg
, Great
er T
Don Kendrick, Business Bankin
Gerrit van Huisstede, Western Mo
Kirk V. Clausen, Nevad

Pamela M. Conboy, Arizona/I
Don M. Melen
dez, I
Joseph C. Everhart, Alask

Greg A. Winegardner, Ut

Patrick G. Yalung, Washin

Dean Rennell, Business Bankin
Laura A. Schulte, Ea
Scott Coble, Florid
Joe A. Atkinson, South Florid

David Guzman, Greater Tampa Ba

Derek Jones, Greater Gulf Coa

Larisa F. Perry, Central Florid

Kelly A. Smith, North Florid
Darryl G. Harmon, Southea
Leigh Vincent Collier, Mid-So

Michael S. Donnelly, Atl

Chadwick A. (Chad) Gregory, =
Gregi
Pete Jones, Mid-Atl
Andrew M. Bertamini, Marylan

Glen M. Kelley, Greater Virgini

Michael L. Golden,  =
Greater Washin.
Deborah E. O’Donnell, Western Virgini
Stanhope A. Kelly, Carolina
Kendall K. Alley, Ch

Jack O. Clayton,  =
Triangle/Eastern Narolin
Leslie L. Hayes,  =
Western/Triad Narolin
Forrest R. (Rick) Redden III, =
Soarolin
Michelle Y. Lee, Northea
Frederick A. Bertoldo,  =
Northern Neerse
Lucia Gibbons, Business Bankin

Joseph F. Kirk,  
New York and Connectic
Gregory S. Redden,  
Greater Philadelphia, Delawar
Brenda K. Ross-Dulan,  
Southern Neerse
Gregory S. White, Greater Pennsylvani
Shelley Freemuent Segment and 
Customer Experience Executiv
Lisa J. Stevens, Pa
Michael F. Billeci, San Francisco Bay Are
Wendy L. Haller, Peninsul

Gregory L. Morgan, North Ba
Tracy Curtis, Or

James W. Foley, Greater Bay Are
Robert F. Ceglio, Mount Dia

Jdeman, Santa Clara Valle

Micky S. Randhawa, East Ba
David A. G
alasso,  
Northern and Central Californi

Reza Razzaghi
pour, Pa
ciﬁc CDavid R. Kvamme, Great Lak
Mary Bell, Indiana, O
Frank Newman III, Rocky Mo
Joy N. Ott, Montana, Wyomin
Donald J. Pearson, Great Plain
Kirk L. Kellner,  
Kansas, Missouri, Nebrask
Daniel P. Murphy,
N
John K. Sotoodeh, Los Angeles Metro,
Orange Count

Ben F. Alvarado, Orange Count

Marla M. Clemow, Los Angeles Metr

David Dicristofaro, Greater Los An
Kim M. Young, Southern Californi

Don Fracchia, Business Bankin

Dana Reddington, Business Bankin

Marc Bernstein, Enterprise  
Small Business Segm

Todd Reimringer,  
Business Payroll Servic
CONSU
Group Hea

Avid Modjtab
Consumer Credit Solution
Thomas A. Wolf
Dan L. Abbott, Retail Servic

Beverly J. Anderson,  
Consumer Financiaervic
Ruben O. Avilez,  =
Strategic Auto Investm
Jerry G. Bowen, Commercial Au

Dawn Martin Harp, Dealer Servic

John P. Rasmussen,  =
Education Financial Servic
Home Lendin
Michael J. H
Bradley W. Blackwell, Portfolio Lendin

Franklin R. Codel, Mortgage Pr

Mary C. Customer Excellenc

Michael J. DeVito, Home Lending Servicin

Peter R. Diliberti, Capital Mark

John P. Gibbons, Capital Mark
WEALTH, BROKERAGE 

Group Hea
David M. Carr
Mary Mack, Wellargo Advi

John M. P
apadopulos, Retir
James P. Steiner, Abbot Downin

Jay S. Welker, Wealth Managem
WHOLESALE B
Group Hea

David A. Hoy
Asset Management Gro
Michael J. Niedermey
Kirk Hartman, Wells Capital Managem

Karla M. Rabusch, Wellargo 
Funds Management, LL
Commercial Bankin
Perry G. P
John C. Adams, Northwest R

Lisa J. Finer, Bay Area Divi

Eric C. Houser, Technology Divi

Mary A. Knell, Washington and  
Western 
Canada 
Di
Tim M. Billerbeck, Business Developm

Dave R. Golden, Mountain Divi

Lisa N. Johnson, Midwest Divi

Paul D
Kalsbeek, SouthSamuel J. Belk, MidSouth Divi

Jonathan C. Homeyer,
South Texas Di
Laura S. Mac
Neil, North T
exas Di
Bradley S. Marcus, Georgia Divi
Rich J. Kerbis, Commercial Banking Cr

John P. Manning,
Southern California Divi
Laura S. Oberst, Central Divi

Rob C. Yraceburu,  =
Food & Agribusiness Divi
MaryLou Barreiro, Specialty Financ
Carlos E. Evans, Eastern R
Michael J. Carlin,  
Government Banking Cr
Jim E. Fitzgerald, Northeast Divi

Stan F. Gibson, Carolinas Divi

Howard M. Halle, Florida Divi

Marybeth S. Howe, Great Lakes Divi

Edmond O. Lelo, Mid-Atlantic Divi

Susanne Svizeny, Pennsylvania, Delaware 
and Eastern Ca
nada Di
Commercial Real Estat
Mark L. My
William M. Cotter, Northeast R

Christopher J. Jordan, Hospitality Finance
and Senior Housin
Michael F. Marino
Southern California R
Robin W. Michel, Southwest Region and 
Homebuilding Bankin
Jeed, Portfolio Managem

Rex E. Rudy, REIT Financ

William AVernon, Midwest, Southeast, 
International Region and Real Estate 
Merchant Bankin
Cynthia Wilusz Lovell, Northwest R
Corporate Banking Gro
J. 
Michael John
J. 
Nicholas Cole, Wellargo Restaurant 
Finance; Gaming Divi
James D. Heinz, U.S. Corporate Bankin
Kyle G. Hranicky, Energy Group;  
Power & Utilities Gro
John R. Hukari, Equity Funds Gro

Brian J. Van Elslander,  
Financial Sponsors Grou
Daniel P. Weiler,  =
Financial Institutions Gro
Insurance Grou
Laura L. Schupba
Kevin M. Brogan, Property and Casualty
National Practice and Special Ris
Michael P. Day, Rural Community 
Insurance Services, In
Laurie B. Nordquist, Personal and  
Small Business Insuranc
Kevin T. Kenny, Insurance Brokerage 
anonsultin
Tim Prichard, Employee Beneﬁts 
Nationactic
H David Wood, Insurance Operation
International Gro
Richard York
Rajnish Bharadwaj,  
Cross Border Governanc
Peter P. Connolly,
Global Transaction Bankin
James C. Johnston,  
EMEA Regional Pr
Chris G. Lewis,  
International Trade Servic
John V
Rindlaub, 
Asia Paciﬁc Regional Pr
Sanjiv S. Sanghvi, Global Banking Gro

Charles H. Silverman,  
Global Financial Institution
Dominic O’Hagan, Chief Crer 
Internationa
Specialized Lending,
Servicing and T
J. 
Edward B
Julie Caperton, Asset Backed Financ
Lesley A. Eckstein,  
Community Lending and Investm
Alan Kronovet,  
Commercial Mortgage Servicin
Douglas J. Mazer,
Real Estate Capital Mark
John M. McQueen,  
Wellargo Equipment Financ
Alan Wiener, Multi-family Housin
Wellargo Capital Financ
Henry K. Jord
Scott R. Diehl, Industries Gro

Jim Dore, Commercial and Retail Financ

Guy K. Fuchs, Corporate Financ
Wellargo Sec
John R. Shrews
Walter Dolhare and Tim Mullins, 
Markvi
Robert Engel and Jonathan Weiss, 
Investment Banking and Capital Mark
Benjamin V. Lambert and Roy March, 
Eastdil Secured, LL
Diane Schumaker-Krieg,  
Research and Econ
Phil D. Smith, Government and 
Institutional Bankin
George Wick, Principal Investm
Wholesale Ris
David J. W
Robert W. Belson, Wholesale Banking,=
Deputy Chief Cr
Adam B. Davis, Chief Crer =
Reastate/Asset Backed Financ
Derek A. Flowers, Chief Credit and Market 
Riser, Wellargo Securities/
Corporate Bankin
John G. McGowan, Wholesale Ris
Reporting and Analy
Kevin J. Martin, Group Compliance and 
Operational Ris
William J. Mayer, Chief Crer 
Commercial Banking/Wellargo 

Capital Fina
nce/Equipment Finance/
Municipal Financ
Kenneth C. McCorkle, AgriBusin
Barry Neal, Environmental Financ

Michael P. Sadilek, Loan Worko
Wholesale Servic
Stephen M. Elli
Peter Amendola, Wholesale Loan Servicin

Brady Cole, Wholesale Information 
Managem
Kevin Dabney, Wholesale System

Michele Kelsey, Wholesale Marketin

Daniel C. Peltz, Treasury =
Managemo
         
           5                           10                                15             
                           20
                     
       
              25          
              
                Wellargompany
201inancieport 
 Financial Review 
30 Overview 
154 3 Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 
34 46 Earnings Performance 

Balance Sheet Analysis 
154 155 4 Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale 
Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments 
Investment Securities 
49 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
163 6 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
51 99 Risk Management 

Capital Management 
182 
183 
7 
8 Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other 
Assets Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
105 Regulatory Reform 
194 9 Mortgage Banking Activities 
107 Critical Accounting Policies 
197 Intangible Assets 
114 Current Accounting Developments 
198 11 Deposits 
115 Forward-Looking Statements 
198 12 Short-Term Borrowings 
116 Risk Factors 
199 13 Long-Term Debt 
201 
14 Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 
Controls and Procedures 
205 
Legal Actions 
131 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
206 
16 Derivatives 
131 Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
215 
17 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
131 132 Management's Report on Internal Control over 
Financial Reporting 
Report of Independent Registered Public 
Accounting Firm 
239 
241 
245 
18 19 
Preferred Stock 
Common Stock and Stock Plans 
Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
Financial Statements 
252 
21 Income Taxes 
133 Consolidated Statement of Income 
254 
22 
Earnings Per Common Share 
134 135 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income Consolidated Balance Sheet 
255 
257 
23 

24 
Other Comprehensive Income 

Operating Segments 
136 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
259 
Parent-Only Financial Statements 
140 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
262 
26 
Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements 
141 1 Notes to Financial Statements
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
263 264 Report of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm 
Quarterly Financial Data 
153 2 Business Combinations 
266 Glossary of Acronyms 
                                                  
                           This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes, contains forward-looking 
statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and condition, expectations for our operations and business, a
nd our assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ 

materially from our forward-looking statements due to several fa
ctors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ ma
terially 
from our forward-looking statements are described in this Report, including in the ﬁForward-Looking Statementsﬂ and ﬁRisk Facto
rsﬂ 
sections, and in the ﬁRegulation and Supervisionﬂ section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201
3 (2013 Form 10-K). 
When we refer to ﬁWells Fargo,ﬂ ﬁthe Company,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or ﬁu
sﬂ in this Report, we mean Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiari
es (consolidated). When we refer to the ﬁParent,ﬂ we mean Wells Fargo & Company. When we refer to ﬁlegacy Wells Fargo,ﬂ we mean 
Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used 

throughout this Report. 
Financial Review 
Overview Wells Fargo & Company is a nationwide, diversified, 

community-based financial services company with $1.5 trillion 

in assets. Founded in 1852 and 
headquartered in San Francisco, 
we provide banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, and 

consumer and commercial fina
nce through more than 
9,000 locations, 12,000 ATMs and the Internet 

(wellsfargo.com
), and we have offices in 36 countries to support 

our customers who conduct business in the global economy. 

With more than 264,000 active, full-time equivalent team 

members, we serve one in three households in the United States 

and rank No. 25 on 
Fortune™s 
2013 rankings of America™s largest 
corporations. We ranked fourth in assets and first in the market 

value of our common stock among all U.S. banks at 

December 31, 2013. 
Our vision is to satisfy all our customers™ financial needs, 
help them succeed financially, be recognized as the premier 

financial services company in our markets and be one of 

America™s great companies. Our pri
mary strategy to achieve this 
vision is to increase the number of our products our customers 

utilize and to offer them all of the financial products that fulfill 

their needs. Our cross-sell strategy, diversified business model 

and the breadth of our geographic reach facilitate growth in both 

strong and weak economic cycles. We can grow by expanding the 

number of products our current customers have with us, gain 

new customers in our extended markets, and increase market 

share in many businesses. 
Financial Performance 
We produced another outstanding year of financial results in 

2013 and ended the year as America™s most profitable bank. We 

continued to demonstrate the bene
fit of our diversified business 
model by generating record earnings, growing loans and 

deposits, achieving significant improvement in credit quality and 

rewarding our shareholders by increasing our dividend and 

buying back more shares. Wells Fargo net income was 

$21.9 billion in 2013, an increase of 16% compared with 2012, 

with record diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $3.89, also up 

16% from the prior year. We achieved 16 consecutive quarters of 

EPS growth and 11 consecutive quarters of record EPS. The 

drivers of our earnings growth during 2013 reflected the 
changing economic and interest rate environment. Home 

affordability remained str0ng, despite an increase in interest 
rates and home prices. As interest rates rose during 2013, 

mortgage refinance volume declined compared with 2012. 

However, over the same period we had double-digit fee growth 

in brokerage, investment banking,
 cards and mortgage servicing. 
The economy maintained its pace of moderate growth with gains 

in consumer spending, business investment and employment.  
Noteworthy items included: 
our loans increased $26.2 billion, up 3% even with the 

planned runoff in our non-strategic/liquidating portfolios, 
and our core loan portfolio grew by $39.9 billion, up 6%; 
 our deposit franchise continued to generate strong deposit 

growth, with total deposits up $76.3 billion, or 8%; 
 our credit performance continued to be strong with total net 

charge-offs down $4.5 billion, or 50%, from a year ago; 
we resolved many outstanding issues including the 

Independent Foreclosure Review as well as repurchase 

demands and mortgage-backed se
curities matters, primarily 
involving pre-2009 mortgage loan originations, with 

government-sponsored entities; 
we continued to focus on meeting our customers™ financial 

needs and achieved record cross-sell across the Company; 
our return on assets (ROA) increased by 10 basis points to 

1.51%, and return on equity (ROE) increased by 92 basis 

points to 13.87%; 
we continued to generate strong capital growth as our 

estimated Common Equity Tier I ratio under Basel III 

increased to 9.78%, above our internal target of 9%; and 
our common stock price increased 33% and we returned 

$11.4 billion in capital to our shareholders through an 

increased common stock dividend and additional share 

repurchases (up 33% from 2012). 
Balance Sheet and Liquidity 
Our balance sheet grew 7% in 2013 to $1.5 trillion, funded 

largely by strong deposit growth. These deposits have diluted our 

net interest margin (down to 3.39% in 2013 compared with 

3.76% in 2012), but provide an opportunity to generate business 

through cross-selling efforts in the future. We also have been 
                                           
                                        able to grow our loans on a year-over-year basis for 10 
consecutive quarters, and for the past seven quarters year-over
-year loan growth has been at least 3%, despite the planned 

runoff from our non-strategic/liquidating portfolios. Our non
-strategic/liquidating loan portfolios decreased $13.7 billion 
during the year (now less than 10% of total loans) and our core 

loan portfolios increased $39.9 billion from the prior year. Our 

federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements 

and other short-term investments (collectively referred to as 
federal funds sold and other short-term investments elsewhere 
in this Report) increased by $7
6.5 billion during the year on 
continued strong growth in interest-earning deposits, and we 
grew our investment securities portfolio by $29.2 billion in 2013. 
While we believe our liquidity position was already strong 
with increased regulatory expectat
ions, we have been adding to 
our position over the past year. We issued long-term debt and 
term-deposits at very low interest rates and most of the proceeds 

went into cash and federal funds sold and other short term 

investments. Deposit growth rema
ined strong with period-end 
deposits up $76.3 billion from 2012. Average deposits have 

grown while deposit costs (down 5 basis points from a year ago 

to 11 basis points in fourth quarter 2013) have declined for 

13 consecutive quarters. We grew our primary consumer 

checking customers by a net 4.7% from a year ago 

(November 2013 compared with November 2012). The growth in 

these relationship-based customers should benefit our future 
results as we remain focused on meeting more of our customers™ 

financial needs. 
Credit Quality 
Credit quality continued to improve in 2013, with solid 

performance in several of our commercial and consumer loan 

portfolios, reflecting our long-term risk focus and the benefit 
from the improving housing market. Net charge-offs of 

$4.5 billion were 0.56% of average loans, down 61 basis points 

from a year ago. Net losses in our commercial portfolio were 

only $206 million, or 6 basis points of average loans. Net 

consumer losses declined to 98 basis points in 2013 from 

184 basis points in 2012. We continued to have strong 

improvement in our commercial and residential real estate 

portfolios. Our commercial real estate portfolios were in a net 

recovery position for each quarter of 2013 and losses on our 

consumer real estate portfolios de
clined $3.5 billion from a year 
ago, down 59%. The consumer loss levels reflected the positive 

momentum in the residential real estate market, with home 

values improving significantly in many markets, as well as lower 

default frequency. 
Reflecting these improvements in our loan portfolios, our 
provision for credit losses in 2013 was $2.3 billion, which was 

$4.9 billion less than a year ago. This provision reflected a 

release of $2.2 billion from the allowance for credit losses, 

compared with a release of $1.8 billion a year ago. Given current 

favorable conditions, we continue to expect future allowance 

releases, absent a significant deterioration in the economy. 
In addition to lower net charge-offs and provision expense, 
nonperforming assets (NPAs) also improved and were down 

$4.9 billion, or 20%, from 2012. Nonaccrual loans declined 

$4.8 billion from the prior year while foreclosed assets were 

down slightly from 2012. 
Capital 
We continued to strengthen our capital levels in 2013 even as we 

returned more capital to our shareholders, increasing total 

equity to $171.0 billion at December 31, 2013, up $12.1 billion 

from the prior year. Our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 10.82% 

of risk-weighted assets (RWA) under Basel I. Our estimated 

Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III, using the advanced 

approach method, increased to 9.76% in 2013, exceeding our 

internal target of 9%, which includes a 100 basis point internal 

capital buffer. The increase in the Basel III ratio was the result of 
our strong underlying earnings performance and a reduction in 

RWA, which was due to our improved credit profile and model 

refinements for our commercial portfolios. We gained more 

clarity regarding Basel III capital requirements in 2013 and took 

a number of actions to further reduce RWA such as disposing of 

an asset that had a punitive risk weighting and obtaining more 

granular data related to the un
derlying investments of life 
insurance assets. 
For 2013 we paid a total dividend of $1.15 per share, an 
increase of 31% from the prior year, and we purchased 

124 million shares of common stock in the year. We also 

executed a $500 million forward 
purchase contract that is 
expected to settle in first quarter 2014 for approximately 

11 million shares. 
Our other regulatory capital ratios under Basel I remained 
strong with a total risk-based capital ratio of 15.43%, Tier 1 risk-
based capital ratio of 12.33% and Tier 1 leverage ratio of 9.60% 

at December 31, 2013, compared with 14.63%, 11.75% and 9.47%, 

respectively, at December 31, 2012. In July 2013, U.S. banking 

regulatory agencies issued a supplementary leverage ratio 

proposal for Basel III. Based on our review, our current leverage 

levels would exceed the applicable proposed requirements for 

the holding company and each of our insured depository 

institutions. See the ﬁCapital Managementﬂ section in this 

Report for more information regarding our capital, including the 

calculation of common equity for regulatory purposes. We 

remain committed to returning more capital to our shareholders. 
Overview 
(continued) 
Table 1:  Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data (1) 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 % Change 
2013/ 
2012 
Five-year compound 
growth 
rate 
Income statement 
Net interest income
 $ 42,800 
43,230 42,763 44,757 46,324 25,143 (1) 
% 11 Noninterest income
 40,980 
 42,856 38,185 40,453 42,362 16,734 (4)
20 Revenue
 83,780 
86,086 80,948 85,210 88,686 41,877 (3)
 15 Provision for credit losses
 2,309 
 7,217 7,899 15,753 21,668 15,979 (68)
 (32) 
Noninterest expense
 48,842 
 50,398 49,393 50,456 49,020 22,598 (3)
17 Net income before
  noncontrolling interests
 22,224 
19,368 16,211 12,663 12,667 2,698 15  52 
Less: Net income from
  noncontrolling interests
 346 471 342 301 392 43  (27)
 52 Wells Fargo net income
 21,878 
18,897 15,869 12,362 12,275 2,655 16  52 
Earnings per common share
3.95  3.40 2.85 2.23 1.76 0.7016 41 Diluted earnings per common share
3.89  3.36 2.82 2.21 1.75 0.7016 41 Dividends declared per common share
1.15  0.88 0.48 0.20 0.49 1.3031  (2) 
Balance sheet
 (at year end) 
Investment securities
 $ 264,353 
235,199 222,613 172,654 172,710 151,569 12 % 12 Loans
 825,799 
 799,574 769,631 757,267 782,770 864,8303  (1) 
Allowance for loan losses
 14,502 
 17,060 19,372 23,022 24,516 21,013 (15)
 (7) 
Goodwill
 25,637 
 25,637 25,115 24,770 24,812 22,627 -3 Assets
 1,527,015 
 1,422,968 
 1,313,867 
 1,258,128 
 1,243,646 
 1,309,639 
7 3 Core deposits (2)
 980,063 
945,749872,629798,192780,737745,4324 6 Long-term debt
 152,998 
 127,379 125,354 156,983 203,861 267,15820  (11) 
Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
 170,142 
 157,554 140,241 126,408 111,786 99,0848  11 
Noncontrolling interests
866  1,357 1,446 1,481 2,573 3,232 (36)
 (23) 
Total equity
 171,008 
 158,911 141,687 127,889 114,359 102,316 8  11 
(1) The Company acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) on December 31, 2008. Because the acquisition was completed on December 31
, 2008, Wachovia's results are 
included in the income statement, average balances and related metrics beginning in 2009. Wachovia's assets and liabilities are 
included in the consolidated balance sheet 
beginning on December 31, 2008. 
(2) Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits 
(Eurodollar sweep balances). 
Table 2:  Ratios and Per Common Share Data 
Year ended December 31,
Profitability ratios 
 2013 
2012 2011 Wells Fargo net income to average assets (ROA)
 1.51 % 1.41 1.25 Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock to average 
Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity (ROE)
 13.87
 12.95 11.93 Efficiency ratio
 (1)
 58.3 58.5 61.0 Capital ratios 
At year end: 
Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity to assets
 10.15
 10.23 9.87 Total equity to assets
 11.20
 11.17 10.78 Risk-based capital (2) 
Tier 1 capital
 12.33
 11.75 11.33 Total capital 
 15.43
 14.63 14.76 Tier 1 leverage (2)
 9.60 9.47 9.03 Tier 1 common equity (3) 
 10.82
 10.12 9.46 Average balances: 
Average Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity to average assets
 10.40
 10.36 9.91 Average total equity to average assets
 11.39
 11.27 10.80 Per common share data 
Dividend payout (4)
 29.6 26.2 17.0 Book value 
$ 29.48
 27.64 24.64 Market price (5) 
High
 45.64
 36.60 34.25 Low 
 34.43
 27.94 22.58 Year end
 45.40
 34.18 27.56 (1) The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income). 
(2) See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 
(3) See the "Capital Management" section in this Report for additional information. 
(4) Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of diluted earnings per common share. 
(5) Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 
                             Earnings Performance 
Wells Fargo net income for 2013 was $21.9 billion ($3.89 diluted 
earnings per common share), compared with $18.9 billion 

($3.36 diluted per share) for 2012 and $15.9 billion 

($2.82 diluted per share) for 2011. Our 2013 earnings reflected 

strong execution of our business strategy as well as growth in 

many of our businesses. Our financial performance in 2013 was 

significantly affected by a reduced provision for credit losses, 

reflecting strong underlying credit performance. We also 

generated diversified sources of fee income across many of our 

businesses and grew loans and deposits. 
Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest 
income, was $83.8 billion in 2013, compared with $86.1 billion 

in 2012 and $80.9 billion in 2011. The decrease in revenue for 

2013 was predominantly due to a decrease in noninterest 

income, reflecting declines in mortgage banking origination 

volume as interest rates rose during 2013. In 2013, net interest 

income of $42.8 billion represented 51% of revenue, compared 

with $43.2 billion (50%) in 2012 and $42.8 billion (53%) in 

2011. Noninterest income was $41.0 billion in 2013, representing 
49% of revenue, compared with $42.9 billion (50%) in 2012 and 

$38.2 billion (47%) in 2011. The decrease in 2013 was driven 

predominantly by a 25% decline in mortgage banking income 

due to decreased net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales 

activities, offset by higher servicing income. Mortgage loan 

originations were $351 billion in 2013, down from $524 billion a 

year ago. 
Noninterest expense was $48.8 billion in 2013, compared 
with $50.4 billion in 2012 and $49.4 billion in 2011. Noninterest 

expense as a percentage of revenue (efficiency ratio) was 58.3% 

in 2013, 58.5% in 2012 and 61.0% in 2011, reflecting our expense 

management efforts. The decrease in 2013 compared with 2012 

reflected lower operating losses, lower foreclosed assets expense, 

and lower FDIC and other deposit assessments. 
Table 3 presents the components of revenue and noninterest 
expense as a percentage of revenue for year-over-year results. 
 62 Table 3:  Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense as a Percentage of Revenue 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
% of revenue
 2012 % of 
revenue  
2011 % of 
revenue  
Interest income 
Trading assets 
$  1,406 
 2 % 
$ 1,380 2 % $ 1,463 2 % Investment securities
 8,841 
 11
 8,757 10 9,107 11 Mortgages held for sale (MHFS)
 1,290 
1 1,825 2 1,644 2 Loans held for sale (LHFS)
 13 -41 -58 -Loans
 35,618 
42 36,517 42 37,302 46 Other interest income
 724 1 587 1 548 1 Total interest income
 47,892 
57 49,107 57 50,122Interest expense 
Deposits
 1,337 
2 1,727 2 2,275 3 Short-term borrowings
 71 -94 -94 -Long-term debt
 2,585 
3 3,110 4 3,978 5 Other interest expense
 307 -245 -316 -Total interest expense
 4,300 
5 5,176 6 6,663 8 Net interest income (on a taxable-equivalent basis) 
43,592 
 52
 43,931 51 43,459 54 Taxable-equivalent adjustment
 (792)
 (1)  
 (701)
 (1) 
 (696)
 (1) 
Net interest income 
(A)
 42,800 
 51
 43,230 50 42,763 53 Noninterest income 
Service charges on deposit accounts
 5,023 
6 4,683 5 4,280 5 Trust and investment fees (1)
 13,430 
 16
 11,890 14 11,304 14 Card fees
 3,191 
4 2,838 3 3,653 5 Other fees (1)
 4,340 
5 4,519 5 4,193 5 Mort
gage banking (1)
 8,774 
10 11,638 14 7,832 10 Insurance
 1,814 
2 1,850 2 1,960 2 Net gains from trading activities
 1,623 
2 1,707 2 1,014 1 Net gains (losses) on debt securities
 (29)
 - (128)
 -54 -Net gains from equity investments
 1,472 
2 1,485 2 1,482 2 Lease income
 663 1 567 1 524 1 Other 679 1 1,807 2 1,889 2 Total noninterest income (B)
 40,980 
49 42,856 50 38,185 47 Noninterest expense 
Salaries
 15,152 
 18
 14,689 17 14,462 18 Commission and incentive compensation
 9,951 
 12
 9,504 11 8,857 11 Employee benefits
 5,033 
6 4,611 6 4,348 5 Equipment
 1,984 
2 2,068 2 2,283 3 Net occupancy
 2,895 
3 2,857 3 3,011 4 Core deposit and other intangibles
 1,504 
2 1,674 2 1,880 2 FDIC and other deposit assessments 
961 1 1,356 2 1,266 2 Other (2)
 11,362 
 14
 13,639 16 13,286 16 Total noninterest expense
 48,842 
58 50,398 59 49,393 61 Revenue (A) + (B) 
$  83,780 
$ 86,086 $ 80,948 (1) See Table 7 Œ Noninterest Income in this Report for additional detail. 
(2) See Table 8 Œ Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail. 
                  
                              
Earnings Performance 
(continued) 
Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, 
loans (including yield-related loan fees) and other interest-
earning assets minus the interest paid for deposits, short-term 

borrowings and long-term debt. The net interest margin is the 

average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate 

paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest 

income and the net interest margin are presented on a taxable-

equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently reflect income from 
taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% 
federal statutory tax rate. 
While the Company believes that it has the ability to increase 
net interest income over time, 
net interest income and the net 
interest margin in any one period can be significantly affected by 

a variety of factors including the mix and overall size of our 

earning assets portfolio and the cost of funding those assets. In 

addition, some variable sources of interest income, such as 

resolutions from purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, loan 

prepayment fees and collection of interest on nonaccrual loans, 

can vary from period to period. Net interest income growth has 

been challenged during the prolonged low interest rate 

environment as higher yielding loans and securities runoff have 

been replaced with lower yielding assets. The pace of this 

repricing has slowed in recent periods. 
Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was 
$43.6 billion in 2013, compared with $43.9 billion in 2012, and 
$43.5 billion in 2011. The net interest margin was 3.39% in 2013, 

down 37 basis points from 3.76% in 2012 and down 55 basis 

points from 3.94% in 2011. The decrease in net interest income 

for 2013, compared with 2012, was largely driven by declines in 

interest income from MHFS and loans as the portfolio mix 

changed. Strong growth in commerc
ial, retained real estate and 
automobile loans has replaced runoff of higher yielding 

liquidating portfolios. Net interest income declines were 

partially offset by reduced funding costs due to disciplined 

deposit pricing and the maturity 
of higher yielding long-term 
debt. The decline in net interest margin in 2013, compared with 

a year ago, was primarily driv
en by higher funding balances, 
including actions taken in response to increased regulatory 

liquidity expectations which raised long-term debt and term 

deposits in addition to customer-driven deposit growth. This 

growth in funding increased cash and federal funds sold and 

other short-term investments and was dilutive to net interest 

margin although essentially neutral to net interest income. 
Table 4 presents the components of earning assets and 
funding sources as a percentage of earning assets to provide a 

more meaningful analysis of year-over-year changes that 
influenced net interest income. 
Average earning assets increased $115.2 billion in 2013 from 
a year ago, as average investment securities increased 

$26.1 billion and average federal funds sold and other short-

term investments increased $70.8 billion for the same period, 

respectively. In addition, average loans increased $29.8 billion 

in 2013, compared with a year ago. The increases in average 

investment securities, average federal funds sold and other 

short-term investments and average loans were partially offset 

by a $13.7 billion decline in average MHFS. 
Core deposits are an important low-cost source of funding 
and affect both net interest income and the net interest margin. 

Core deposits include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-

bearing checking, savings certificates, market rate and other 

savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep 

balances). Average core 
deposits rose to $942.1 billion in 2013, 
compared with $893.9 billion in 2012, and funded 117% of 

average loans compared with 115% a year ago. Average core 

deposits decreased to 73% of average earning assets in 2013, 

compared with 76% a year ago. The cost of these deposits has 

continued to decline due to a sustained low interest rate 

environment and a shift in our deposit mix from higher cost 

certificates of deposit to lower yielding checking and savings 

products. About 95% of our average core deposits are in 

checking and savings deposits, one of the highest industry 

percentages. 
Table 5 presents the individual components of net interest 
income and the net interest margin. The effect on interest 

income and costs of earning asset and funding mix changes 

described above, combined with rate changes during 2013, are 

analyzed in Table 6. 
Table 4:  Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of Average Earnings Assets
 Year ended 
December 
31, 2013 
2012 (in millions) 
Avera
ge balance 
% ofearnin
g assets 
Avera
gbalance
 % o
f e earnin
g  assets 
Earning assets 
Federal funds sold, securities 
purchased under resale a
greements 
and other short-term investments 
$ 154,902 
 12 % 
$ 84,081 
7 % 
Trading assets
 44,745 
4 41,950 
4 Investment securities: 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 6,750 
1 3,604 
-Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
Mortgage-backed securities: 
 39,922 
3 34,875 
3 Federal agencies
 107,148 
8 92,887 
8 Residential and commercial
 30,717 
3 33,545 
3 Total mortgage-backed securities
 137,865 
11  126,432
 11 Other debt and equity securities
 55,002 
4 49,245 
4 Total available-for-sale securities
 239,539 
19  214,156
 18 Held-to-maturity securities
 717 ---Mortgages held for sale (1)
 35,273 
3 48,955 
4 Loans held for sale 
(1)
 163 -661 -Loans: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial
 188,092 
15  173,913
 15 Real estate mort
gage 
 105,475 
8  105,437
 9 Real estate construction
 16,445 
1 17,963 
2 Lease financing
 12,048 
1 12,771 
1 Foreign
 43,447 
3 39,852 
4 Total commercial 
 365,507 
28  349,936
 31 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 254,000 
20  234,619
 20 Real estate 1-4 famil
y j
unior lien mort
gag
 70,227 
5 80,840 
7 Credit card
 24,747 
2 22,772 
2 Automobile
 48,476 
4 44,986 
4 Other revolving credit and installment
 42,035 
3 42,071 
3 Total consumer
 439,485 
34  425,288
 36 Total loans (1)
 804,992 
62  775,224
 67 Other 
 4,354 
- 4,438 
-Total earning assets 
$ 1,284,685 
 100 % 
$ 1,169,465  
100 % 
Funding sources 
Deposits: 
Interest-bearing checking 
$ 35,570 
 3 % 
$ 30,564 
3 % 
Market rate and other savings 
 550,394 
43  505,310
 43 Savings certificates
 49,510 
4 59,484 
5 Other time de
posits
 28,090 
2 13,363 
1 Deposits in foreign offices
 76,894 
6 67,920 
6 Total interest-bearing deposits
 740,458 
58 676,641 
58 Short-term borrowin
gs 
 54,716 
4 51,196 
4 Long-term debt
 134,937 
10  127,547
 11 Other liabilities
 12,471 
1 10,032 
1 Total interest-bearin
g liabilities
 942,582 
73  865,416
 74 Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources
 342,103 
27  304,049
 26 Total funding sources 
$ 1,284,685 
 100 % 
$ 1,169,465  
100 % 
Noninterest-earning assets 

Cash and due from banks 
$ 16,272 
 16,303 
Goodwill 
 25,637 
 25,417 
Other 
 121,711   
 130,450 
Total noninterest-earnin
g assets 
$ 163,620   
 172,170 
Noninterest-bearing funding sources 

Deposits 
$ 280,229   
 263,863 
Other liabilities
 60,500 
 61,214 
Total e
quit
y 164,994   
 151,142 
Noninterest-bearing funding sources used to fund earning assets
 (342,103)
 (304,049) 
Net noninterest-bearing funding sources 
$ 163,620 
 172,170 
Total assets 
$  1,448,305 
 1,341,635 
(1) Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories. 
Earnings Performance 
(continued)
Table 5: Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)
 2013 
2012 (in millions) 
Average 
balance 
Yields/ 
rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
Average 
balance 
Yields/ 
rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
Earnin
g assets 
Federal funds sold, securities purchased under 
resale agreements and other short-term investments 
$ 154,902 
 0.32 % 
$ 489 
 84,081
 0.45 % 
$ 378 
Trading assets (3)
 44,745 
 3.14 
 1,406 
 41,950
 3.29 
 1,380 
Investment securities 
(4): 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 6,750 
 1.66 
112  3,604 
 1.31 
47 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 39,922 
 4.38 
 1,748 
 34,875
 4.48 
 1,561 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal a
gencies
 107,148 
 2.83 
 3,031 
 92,887
 3.12 
 2,893 
Residential and commercial
 30,717 
 6.47 
 1,988 
 33,545
 6.75 
 2,264 
Total mortgage-backed securities
 137,865 
 3.64 
 5,019 
 126,432
 4.08 
 5,157 
Other debt and e
quit
y securities
 55,002 
 3.53 
 1,940 
 49,245
 4.04 
 1,992 
Total available-for-sale securities
 239,53
 3.68 
 8,81
 214,156
 4.09 
 8,757 
Held-to-maturity securities (5)
9 717  3.06 
9 22  ---Mortgag
es held for sale 
(6)
 35,273 
 3.66 
 1,290 
 48,955
 3.73 
 1,825 
Loans held for sale (6)
163  7.95 
13  661  6.22 
41 Loans: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial
 188,092 
 3.62 
 6,807 
 173,913
 4.01 
 6,981 
Real estate mortgage
 105,475 
 3.93 
 4,147 
 105,437
 4.18 
 4,411 
Real estate construction
 16,445 
 4.77 
784  17,963
 4.98 
894 Lease financing
 12,048 
 6.13 
738  12,771
 7.22 
921 Forei
gn 
 43,447 
 2.18 
946  39,852
 2.47 
984 Total commerc
ial 
 365,507 
 3.67 
 13,422 
 349,936
 4.06 
 14,191 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 254,000 
 4.22 
 10,716 
 234,619
 4.55 
 10,671 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 70,227 
 4.29 
 3,013 
 80,840
 4.28 
 3,457 
Credit card
 24,747 
 12.46
 3,083 
 22,772
 12.67 
 2,885 
Automobile
 48,476 
 6.94 
 3,365 
 44,986
 7.54 
 3,390 
Other revolvin
g credit and installment
 42,035 
 4.80 
 2,019 
 42,071
 4.57 
 1,923 
Total consumer
 439,485 
 5.05 
 22,196 
 425,288
 5.25 
 22,326 
Total loans 
(6)
 804,992 
 4.42 
 35,618 
 775,224
 4.71 
 36,517 
Other 
 4,354 
 5.39 
235  4,438 
 4.70 
209 Total earning assets 
$ 1,284,685 
 3.73 % 
$  47,892 
 1,169,465 
 4.20 % 
$  49,107 
Fundin
g sources 
Deposits: 
Interest-bearing checking 
$ 35,570 
 0.06 % 
$ 22  30,564
 0.06 % 
$ 19 Market rate and other savings 
 550,394 
 0.08 
450  505,310
 0.12 
592 Savin
gs certificates
 49,510 
 1.13 
559  59,484
 1.31 
782 Other time deposits
 28,090 
 0.69 
194  13,363
 1.68 
225 Deposits in foreign offices
 76,894 
 0.15 
112  67,920
 0.16 
109 Total interest-bearin
g deposits
 740,458 
 0.18 
 1,33
 676,641
 0.26 
 1,727 
Short-term borrowings
 54,716 
 0.13 
7 71  51,196
 0.18 
94 Long-term debt
 134,937 
 1.92 
 2,585 
 127,547
 2.44 
 3,110 
Other liabilities
 12,471 
 2.46 
307  10,032
 2.44 
245 Total in
terest-bearing liabilities
 942,582 
 0.46 
 4,300 
 865,416
 0.60 
 5,176 
Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources
 342,103 
-- 304,049
--Total funding sources 
$ 1,284,685 
 0.34 
 4,300 
 1,169,465 
 0.44 
 5,176 
Net interest margin and net interest income 
on a taxable-equivalent basis 
(7)
 3.39 % 
$  43,592 
 3.76 % 
$  43,931 
Noninterest-earning assets 
Cash and due from banks 
$ 16,272 
 16,303 
Goodwill 
 25,637 
 25,417 
Other 
 121,711 
 130,450 
Total noninterest-earning assets 
$ 163,620 
 172,170 
Noninterest-bearin
g fundin
g sources 
Deposits 
$ 280,229 
 263,863 
Other liabilities
 60,500 
 61,214 
Total equity
 164,994 
 151,142 
Noninterest-bearin
g fundin
g sources used to 
fund earning assets
 (342,103)
 (304,049) 
Net noninterest-bearing funding sources 
$ 163,620 
 172,170 
Total assets 
$ 1,448,305 
 1,341,635 
(1) Our average prime rate was 3.25% for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The average three-month London Interbank O
ffered Rate (LIBOR) was 0.27%, 
0.43%, 0.34%, 0.34%, and 0.69% for the same years, respectively. 
(2) Yield/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and li
ability categories. 
(3) Interest income/expense for trading assets represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities. 
(4) The average balance amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented. 
 2011 2010 2009 Average 
balance 
Yields/ 
rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
e Averag
balance 
Yields/ 
rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
Average 
balance 
Yields/ 
rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
$  87,186
 0.40 % 
$ 345 
62,961 
0.36 
% $ 230  26,869
 0.56 % 
$ 150 
 39,737
 3.68 
 1,463 
29,920 
3.75 
 1,121 
 21,092
 4.48 
944  5,503 
 1.25 
69 1,870 
3.24 
61  2,436 
 2.83 
69  24,035
 5.09 
 1,223 
16,089 
6.09 
980  13,098
 6.42 
840  74,665
 4.36 
 3,257 
71,953 
5.14 
 3,697 
 84,295
 5.45 
 4,591 
 31,902
 8.20 
 2,617 
31,815 
10.67 
 3,396 
 45,672
 9.09 
 4,150 
 106,567
 5.51 
 5,874 
103,768 
6.84 
 7,093 
 129,967
 6.73 
 8,741 
 38,625
 5.03 
 1,941 
32,611 
6.45 
 2,102 
 32,022
 7.16 
 2,291 
 174,730
 5.21 
 9,107 
154,338 
6.63 
 10,236
 177,523
 6.73 
 11,941
 --------- 37,232
 4.42 
 1,644 
36,716 
4.73 
 1,736 
 37,416
 5.16 
 1,930 
 1,104 
 5.25 
58 3,773 
2.67 
101  6,293 
 2.90 
183  157,608
 4.37 
 6,894 
149,576 
4.80 
 7,186 
 180,924
 4.22 
 7,643 
 102,236
 4.07 
 4,163 
98,497 
3.89 
 3,836 
 96,273
 3.50 
 3,365 
 21,592
 4.88 
 1,055 
31,286 
3.36 
 1,051 
 40,885
 2.91 
 1,190 
 12,944
 7.54 
976 13,451 
9.21 
 1,239 
 14,751
 9.32 
 1,375 
 36,768
 2.56 
941 29,726 
3.49 
 1,037 
 30,661
 3.95 
 1,212 
 331,148
 4.24 
 14,029 
322,536 
4.45 
 14,349
 363,494
 4.07 
 14,785
 226,980
 4.89 
 11,090 
235,568 
5.18 
 12,206
 238,359
 5.45 
 12,992
 90,705
 4.33 
 3,926 
101,537 
4.45 
 4,519 
 106,957
 4.76 
 5,089 
 21,463
 13.02 
 2,794 
22,375 
13.35 
 2,987 
 23,357
 12.16 
 2,841 
 43,744
 8.13 
 3,555 
43,642 
8.84 
 3,856 
 44,196
 9.22 
 4,077 
 43,104
 4.43 
 1,908 
44,943 
4.21 
 1,891 
 46,470
 4.04 
 1,875 
 425,996
 5.46 
 23,273 
448,065 
5.68 
 25,459
 459,339
 5.85 
 26,874
 757,144
 4.93 
 37,302 
770,601 
5.17 
 39,808
 822,833
 5.06 
 41,659
 4,929 
 4.12 
203 5,849 
3.56 
207  6,113 
 3.05 
186 $  1,102,062 
 4.55 % 
$  50,122 
1,064,158 
5.02 
% $ 53,439
 1,098,139 
 5.19 % 
$  56,993 
$ 47,705
 0.08 % 
$ 40 60,941 
0.12 
% $72  70,179
 0.14 % 
$ 100 
 464,450
 0.18 
836 416,877 
0.26 
 1,088 
 351,892
 0.39  1,375  69,711
 1.43 
995 87,133 
1.43 
 1,247 
 140,197
 1.24 
 1,738 
 13,126
 2.04 
268 14,654 
2.07 
302  20,459
 2.03 
415  61,566
 0.22 
136 55,097 
0.22 
123  53,166
 0.27 
146  656,558
 0.35 
 2,275 
634,702 
0.45 
 2,832 
 635,893
 0.59 
 3,774 
 51,781
 0.18 
94 46,824 
0.22 
106  51,972
 0.44 
231  141,079
 2.82 
 3,978 
185,426 
2.64 
 4,888 
 231,801
 2.50 
 5,786 
 10,955
 2.88 
316 6,863 
3.31 
227  4,904 
 3.50 
172  860,373
 0.77 
 6,663 
873,815 
0.92 
 8,053 
 924,570
 1.08 
 9,963 
 241,689
 --190,343 
-- 173,569
 --$  1,102,062 
 0.61 
 6,663 
1,064,158 
0.76 
 8,053 
 1,098,139 
 0.91 
 9,963 
$ 17,388
 3.94 % 
$  43,459
 17,618
 4.26 
% $  45,386
 19,218
4.28 
% $ 47,030 
 24,904
 24,824
 23,997
 125,911
 120,338
 121,000 
$ 168,203
 162,780
 164,215 
$ 215,242
 183,008
 171,712
 57,399
 47,877
 48,193
 137,251
 122,238
 117,879
 (241,689)
 (190,343)
 (173,569) 
$ 168,203
 162,780
 164,215 
$ 1,270,265 
 1,226,938 
 1,262,354 
(5) Includes $6.3 billion of federal agency mortgage-backed securities purchased during the fourth quarter of 2013 and $6.0 billion
 of auto asset-backed securities that were 
transferred near the end of 2013 from the available-for-sale portfolio. 
(6) Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 
(7) Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of $792 million, $701 million, $696 million, $629 million and $706 million for 2013, 20
12, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, 
primarily related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and securities. The federal statutory tax rate utilized was 35% for the
 periods presented. 
                              
    
   
              
           
   
             
      
            
        
         
        
                                      
  
  
           
             
                         
             
  
              
  
         
   
              
             
            
          
  
                                            
            
            
            
             
        
       
                                 
               
             
         
    
               
               
               
                         
                                               
          
   
                  
   
                    
  
                  
        
           
   
                           
  
      Earnings Performance 
(continued) 
Table 6 allocates the changes in net interest income on a 
not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume 
taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or 
and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either 
average rates for both interest-earning assets and 
volume or rate are allocated to these categories on a pro-rata 
interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the numerous 
basis based on the absolute value of the change due to average 
simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is 
volume and average rate. 
Table 6: Analysis of Changes of Net Interest Income 
Year ended December 31, 
2013 over 2012 
2012 over 2011 
(in millions) 
Volume 
Rate
 Total 
Volume 
Rate
 Total 
Increase (decrease) in interest income: 
Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale 
agreements and other short-term investments 
$ 245  (134)
 111  (12)
 45 33 Trading assets
 90  (64)
 26 78  (161)
 (83) 
Investment securities: 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 49 16 65  (25)
 3  (22) 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 223  (36)
 187 499  (161)
 338 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 421  (283)
 138 687  (1,051)
 (364) 
Residential and commercial
 (185)
 (91)
 (276)
 129  (482)
 (353) 
Total mortgage-backed securities
 236  (374)
 (138)
 816  (1,533)
 (717) 
Other debt and equity securities
 217  (269)
 (52)
 475  (424)
 51 Total available-for-sale securities
 725  (663)
 62 1,765 (2,115)
 (350) 
Held-to-maturity securities
 22 -22 ---Mortgages held for sale
 (502)
 (33)
 (535)
 465  (284)
 181 Loans held for sale
 (37)
 9  (28)
 (26)
 9  (17) 
Loans: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
539  (713)
 (174)
 680  (593)
 87 Real estate mortgage
 2  (266)
 (264)
 133 115 248 Real estate construction
 (73)
 (37)
 (110)
 (182)
 21  (161) 
Lease financing
 (50)
 (133)
 (183)
 (13)
 (42)
 (55) 
Foreign
 84  (122)
 (38)
 77  (34)
 43 
Total commercial
 502  (1,271)
 (769)
 695  (533)
 162 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 848  (803)
 45 367  (786)
 (419) 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 (452)
 8  (444)
 (424)
 (45)
 (469) 
Credit card
 247  (49)
 198 167  (76)
 91 
Automobile
 254  (279)
 (25)
 99  (264)
 (165) 
Other revolving credit and installment
 (2)
 98 96  (46)
 61 15 Total consumer 
895  (1,025)
 (130)
 163  (1,110)
 (947) 
Total loans 
 1,397 
 (2,296)
 (899)
 858  (1,643)
 (785) 
Other (4)
 30 26  (21)
 27 6 Total increase (decrease) in interest income
 1,936 
 (3,151)
 (1,215) 
3,107 (4,122)
 (1,015) 
Increase (decrease) in interest expense: 

Deposits: 
Interest-bearing checking
 3 -3 (12)
 (9)
 (21) 
Market rate and other savings
 55  (197)
 (142)
 65  (309)
 (244) 
Savings certificates
 (123)
 (100)
 (223)
 (135)
 (78)
 (213) 
Other time deposits
 152  (183)
 (31)
 5  (48)
 (43) 
Deposits in foreign offices 
11  (8)
 3 13  (40)
 (27) 
Total interest-bearing deposits
 98  (488)
 (390)
 (64)
 (484)
 (548) 
Short-term borrowings
 6  (29)
 (23)
 ---Long-term debt
 171  (696)
 (525)
 (362)
 (506)
 (868) 
Other liabilities
 61 1 62  (25)
 (46)
 (71) 
Total increase (decrease) in interest expense
 336  (1,212)
 (876)
 (451)
 (1,036)
 (1,487) 
Increase (decrease) in net interest income 
on a taxable-equivalent basis 
$ 1,600 
 (1,939)
 (339)
 3,558 (3,086)
 472 Noninterest Income 
Table 7:  Noninterest Income 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Service charges on 
deposit accounts 
$ 5,023 
 4,683 
 4,280 
Trust and investment fees: 
Brokerage advisory, commissions 
and other fees (1)
 8,395 
7,524 
 7,332 
Trust and investment management (1)
 3,289 
3,080 
 3,008 
Investment banking
 1,746 
1,286 
964 Total trust and 
investment fees
 13,430 
11,890
 11,304 
Card fees
 3,191 
2,838 
 3,653 
Other fees: 
Charges and fees on loans
 1,540 
1,746 
 1,641 
Merchant transaction 
processing fees
 669 583 478 Cash network fees
 493 470 389 Commercial real estate
 brokerage commissions
 338 307 236 Letters of credit fees
 410 441 472 All other fees
 890 972 977 Total other fees
 4,340 
4,519 
 4,193 
Mortgage banking: 
Servicing income, net
 1,920 
1,378 
 3,266 
Net gains on mortgage loan 
origination/sales activities
 6,854 
10,260
 4,566 
Total mortgage banking
 8,774 
11,638
 7,832 
Insurance
 1,814 
1,850 
 1,960 
Net gains from trading activities
 1,623 
1,707 
 1,014 
Net gains (losses) on debt securities
 (29) 
(128)
 54 Net gains from equity investments
 1,472 
1,485 
 1,482 
Lease income
 663 567 524 Life insurance investment income
 566 757 700 All other
 113 1,050 
 1,189 
Total 
$ 40,980 
 42,856
 38,185 
(1) Prior year periods have been revised to reflect all fund distribution fees as 
brokera
ge related income. 
Noninterest income of $41.0 billion represented 49% of revenue 
for 2013 compared with $42.9 billion, or 50%, for 2012 and 

$38.2 billion, or 47%, for 2011. The decrease in noninterest 

income in 2013 reflected declines in our mortgage banking 

business, partially offset by growth in many of our other 

businesses, including retail deposits, credit card, merchant card 

processing, commercial banking, corporate banking, capital 

markets, asset-backed finance, commercial real estate, 
commercial mortgage servicing, corporate trust, asset 

management, wealth management, brokerage and retirement. 

Excluding mortgage banking, noninterest income increased 

$988 million from a year ago. 
Our service charges on deposit accounts increased in 2013 by 
$340 million, or 7%, from 
2012, due to primary consumer 

checking customer growth, product changes and continued 

customer adoption of overdraft services. These charges increased 

$403 million, or 9%, in 2012 compared with 2011, 

predominantly due to product and account changes including 
changes to service charges and fewer fee waivers, continued 

customer adoption of overdraft services and customer account 

growth. 
Brokerage advisory, commissions and other fees are received 
for providing services to full-service and discount brokerage 

customers. Income from these brokerage-related activities 

include transactional commissions based on the number of 

transactions executed at the customer™s direction, and 

asset-based fees, which are based on the market value of the 

customer™s assets. These fees increased to $8.4 billion in 2013, 

from $7.5 billion and $7.3 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

The increase in brokerage income for both periods was 

predominantly due to higher asset-based fees as a result of 
higher market values and growth
 in assets under management. 
Brokerage client assets totaled $1.4 trillion at 

December 31, 2013, an increa
se from $1.2 trillion at 
December 31, 2012 and $1.1 trillion at December 31, 2011. 
We earn trust and investment management fees from 
managing and administering assets, including mutual funds, 

corporate trust, personal trust, employee benefit trust and 

agency assets. Trust and investment management fees are 

largely based on a tiered scale relative to the market value of the 

assets under management or administration. These fees 

increased to $3.3 billion in 2013 from $3.1 billion in 2012 and 

$3.0 billion in 2011, primarily due to growth in assets under 

management reflecting higher market values. At 
December 31, 2013, these assets totaled $2.4 trillion, an increase 
from $2.2 trillion at both 
December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
We earn investment banking fees from underwriting debt 
and equity securities, arranging loan syndications, and 

performing other related advisory services. Investment banking 

fees increased to $1.7 billion in 2013, from $1.3 billion in 2012 

and $964 million in 2011, primarily due to increased loan 

syndication volume and equity originations. 
Card fees were $3.2 billion in 2013, compared with 
$2.8 billion in 2012, which was down from $3.7 billion in 2011. 

Card fees increased in 2013 due to account growth and increased 

purchase activity. During 2012, card fees decreased compared 

with 2011 because of lower debit card interchange rates resulting 

from the Federal Reserve Board rules implementing the debit 

interchange provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which became 

effective in fourth quarter 2011. The reduction in debit 

interchange income for 2012 was partially offset by growth in 

purchase volume and new accounts. 
Mortgage banking income, consisting of net servicing income 
and net gains on loan origination/sales activities, totaled 

$8.8 billion in 2013, compared with $11.6 billion in 2012 and 

$7.8 billion in 2011. 
Net mortgage loan servicing income includes amortization of 
commercial mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), changes in the 

fair value of residential MSRs during the period, as well as 

changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to 

hedge the residential MSRs. Net servicing income of $1.9 billion 

for 2013 included a $489 million net MSR valuation gain 

($3.4 billion increase in the fair value of the MSRs offset by a 

$2.9 billion hedge loss). Net servicing income of $1.4 billion for 

2012 included a $681 million net MSR valuation gain 

($2.9 billion decrease in the fair value of MSRs offset by a 
                                                                  
Earnings Performance 
(continued) 
$3.6 billion hedge gain), and net servicing income of $3.3 billion 
for 2011 included a $1.6 billion net MSR valuation gain 

($3.7 billion decrease in the fair value of MSRs offset by a 

$5.3 billion hedge gain). The decrease in the 2012 net MSR 

valuation gain from that for 2011 reflected a $677 million 

reduction in valuation due to additional costs associated with 

implementation of the servicing standards developed in 

connection with our settlement with the Department of Justice 

(DOJ) and other state and federal agencies relating to our 

mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices as well as higher 

foreclosure costs. Our portfolio of loans serviced for others was 

$1.90 trillion at December 31, 2013, $1.91 trillion at 

December 31, 2012, and $1.85 trillion at December 31, 2011. At 

December 31, 2013, the ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced 

for others was 0.88%, compared with 0.67% at 

December 31, 2012 and 0.76% at December 31, 2011. See the 
ﬁRisk Management Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and 

Market Riskﬂ section in this Report for additional information 

regarding our MSRs risks and hedging approach. 
Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sale activities were 
$6.9 billion in 2013, compared with $10.3 billion in 2012 and 

$4.6 billion in 2011. The decrease from 2012 was primarily 

driven by lower margins and origination volumes, and the 

increase in 2012 from 2011 was driven by higher loan origination 

volume and margins. Mortgage loan originations were 

$351 billion in 2013, of which 47% were for home purchases, 

compared with $524 billion and 35%, respectively, for 2012 and 

$357 billion and 40%, respectively, for 2011. During 2013, we 

retained for investment $3.6 billion
 ($19.4 billion for 2012) of 
1-4 family conforming first mortgage loans, forgoing 

approximately $120 million ($575 million for 2012) of revenue 

that could have been generated had the loans been originated for 

sale along with other agency conforming loan production. While 

retaining these mortgage loans on our balance sheet reduced 

mortgage revenue, we expect to
 generate spread income in 

future quarters from mortgage loans with higher yields than 

mortgage-backed securities we could have purchased in the 

market. While we do not currently plan to hold additional 

conforming mortgages on balance sheet, we have a large 

mortgage business and strong capital that provides us with the 

flexibility to make such choices in the future to benefit our long-

term results. Mortgage applications were $438 billion in 2013, 

compared with $736 billion in 2012 and $537 billion in 2011. 

The 1-4 family first mortgage unclosed pipeline was $25 billion 

at December 31, 2013, compared with $81 billion at 

December 31, 2012 and $72 billion at December 31, 2011. For 

additional information about our mortgage banking activities 

and results, see the ﬁRisk Management Œ Mortgage Banking 

Interest Rate and Market Riskﬂ section and Note 9 (Mortgage 

Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and 

Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities 
include the cost of additions to the mortgage repurchase liability. 

Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties based on 

standard representations and warranties, and early payment 

default clauses in mortgage sale contracts. Additions to the 

mortgage repurchase liability that were charged against net 

gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities during 2013 
totaled $428 million (compared with $1.9 billion for 2012 and 

$1.3 billion for 2011), of which $285 million ($1.7 billion for 
2012 and $1.2 billion for 2011) was for subsequent increases in 

estimated losses on prior period loan sales. In September and 

December 2013, we announced agreements with Federal Home 

Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National 

Mortgage Association (FNMA), respectively, which resolved 

substantially all agency repurchase liabilities for mortgage loans 

sold or originated prior to 2009. As a result, outstanding 

repurchase demands were down $1.2 billion from a year ago and 

our repurchase liability declined to $899 million, the lowest level 

since second quarter 2009. For additional information about 

mortgage loan repurchases, see the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit 

Risk Management Œ Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase 

Lossesﬂ section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to 

Financial Statements in this Report. 
We engage in trading activities primarily to accommodate the 
investment activities of our 
customers, execute economic 
hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a 

very limited amount of proprietary trading for our own account. 

Net gains (losses) from trading activities, which reflect 

unrealized changes 
in fair value of our trading positions and 
realized gains and losses, were $1.6 billion in 2013, $1.7 billion 

in 2012 and $1.0 billion in 2011. The year-over-year decrease in 
2013 was largely driven by lower results in customer 

accommodation, and the increase in 2012 from 2011 was driven 

by gains on customer accommodation trading activities and 

economic hedging gains, which included higher gains on 

deferred compensation plan investments based on participant 

elections (offset entirely in employee benefit expense). Net gains 

from trading activities do not 
include interest and dividend 
income and expense on trading securities. Those amounts are 

reported within interest income from trading assets and other 

interest expense from trading li
abilities. Proprietary trading 
generated $13 million and $15 million of net gains in 2013 and 

2012, respectively, and $14 million of net losses in 2011. Interest 

and fees related to proprietary trading are reported in their 

corresponding income statement line items. Proprietary trading 

activities are not significant to our client-focused business 

model. For additional information about proprietary and other 

trading, see the ﬁRisk Management Œ Asset and Liability 

Management Œ Market Risk Œ Trading Activitiesﬂ section in this 
Report. 
Net gains on debt and equity securities totaled $1.4 billion for 
both 2013 and 2012 and $1.5 billion for 2011, after other-than
-
temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs of $344 million, 

$416 million and $711 million, respectively, for the same periods. 
All other income was $113 million for 2013 compared with 
$1.1 billion in 2012 and $1.2 billion in 2011. All other income 

includes ineffectiveness recognized on derivatives that qualify 

for hedge accounting and pre-tax losses on tax credits and 

foreign currency adjustments, any of which can cause other 

income losses. Lower other income for 2013 compared with a 

year ago reflected larger ineffectiveness losses on derivatives that 

qualify for hedge accounting and interest-related valuation 

changes on certain mortgage-related assets carried at fair value. 
                     
                    
                                                       
                                                                  
                                                   
  Noninterest Expense 
Table 8:  Noninterest Expense 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Salaries 
$  15,152 
14,689 14,462 Commission and incentive 
compensation
 9,951 
 9,5048,857 Employee benefits
 5,033 
 4,6114,348 Equipment
 1,984 
 2,0682,283 Net occupancy
 2,895 
 2,8573,011 Core deposit and other intangibles
 1,504 
 1,6741,880 FDIC and other deposit 
assessments
961  1,3561,266 Outside professional services
 2,519 
 2,7292,692 Outside data processing
983  910 935 Contract services
935 1,0111,407 Travel and entertainment
885  839 821 Operating losses
821 2,2351,261 Postage, stationery and supplies
756  799 942 Advertising and promotion
610 578 607 Foreclosed assets
605 1,0611,354 Telecommunications
482  500 523 Insurance
437 453 515 Operating leases
204 109 112 All other 
 2,125 
2,4152,117 Total 
$ 48,842 
50,398 49,393 Noninterest expense was $48.8 billion in 2013, down 3% from 
$50.4 billion in 2012, which was up 2% from $49.4 billion in 

2011. The decrease in 2013 was driven predominantly by lower 

operating losses ($821 million, down from $2.2 billion in 2012), 

lower foreclosed assets expense ($605 million, down from 

$1.1 billion in 2012), lower FDIC and other deposit assessments 

($961 million, down from $1.4 billion in 2012), and the 

completion of Wachovia merger integration activities in the prior 

year ($218 million in first quarter 2012), partially offset by 

higher personnel expense ($30.1 billion, up from $28.8 billion in 

2012). The increase in 2012 from 2011 was driven by higher 

personnel expense and higher operating losses, partially offset 

by lower merger integration costs. 
Personnel expenses, which include salaries, commissions, 
incentive compensation and employee benefits, were up 

$1.3 billion, or 5%, in 2013 compared with 2012, primarily due 

to annual salary increases and related salary taxes, and higher 

revenue-based compensation (non-mortgage-related). Included 

in personnel expense was a $422 million increase in employee 

benefits, a significant portion of which was driven by higher 

deferred compensation expense (offset in trading income). For 

2012, these expenses were up 4% compared with 2011 due 

mostly to higher revenue-based compensation, higher employee 

benefits, and increased staffing. 
The completion of Wachovia integration activities in the prior 
year contributed to a year-over-
year reduction in noninterest 
expense for 2013, primarily in outside professional services and 

contract services. Lower costs associated with our mortgage 

servicing regulatory consent orders also contributed to the 

decline in outside professional services in 2013, though this was 

partially offset by project spend on business investments and 

compliance and regulatory related initiatives. Outside 
professional services were also elevated in 2012 and 2011, 

reflecting investments by our businesses in their service delivery 

systems and higher costs associated with regulatory driven 

mortgage servicing and foreclosure matters. 
Foreclosed assets expense was down 43% in 2013 compared 
with 2012 and down 22% in 2012 compared with 2011, reflecting 

lower write-downs, gains on sale, and lower expenses associated 

with foreclosed properties, primar
ily driven by the real estate 
market improvement. 
FDIC and other deposit assessments were down 29% in 2013 
compared with 2012, due primarily to lower FDIC assessment 

rates related to improved credit performance and the Company™s 

liquidity position. 
Operating losses were down 63% in 2013 compared with 
2012, which was elevated predominantly due to mortgage 

servicing and foreclosure-related matters, including the 

Attorneys General settlement a
nnounced in February 2012, a 
$175 million settlement in July 2012 with the U.S. Department 

of Justice (DOJ), which resolved alleged claims related to our 

mortgage lending practices, and the $766 million accrual for the 

Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) settlement and 

additional remediation-related costs. 
All other expenses of $2.1 billion in 2013 were down from 
$2.4 billion in 2012, primarily due to a $250 million charitable 

contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation in 2012. 
Income Tax Expense 
The 2013 annual effective tax rate was 32.2% compared with 

32.5% in 2012 and 31.9% in 2011. The effective tax rate for 2013 

included a net reduction in the reserve for uncertain tax 

positions primarily due to settlements with authorities regarding 

certain cross border transactions
 and tax benefits recognized 
from the realization for tax purposes of a previously written 

down investment. The 2012 effe
ctive tax rate included a tax 
benefit resulting from the surrender of previously written-down 

Wachovia life insurance investments. The 2011 effective tax rate 

included a decrease in tax expense associated with leverage 

leases, as well as tax benefits related to charitable donations of 

appreciated securities. See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial 

Statements in this Report for information regarding tax matters 

related to undistributed foreign earnings. 
                    
        
     
   
           
                   
    
    
    
            
              
        
    
  
  
  
     
       
      
    
  
  
  
   
     
  
  
    
    
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
  
          
   
  
  
  
  
      
    
    
    
       
   
  
   
      
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
      
    
   
   
   
     
    
  
  
  
     
   
           
      
                    
      
     Earnings Performance 
(continued) 
Operating Segment Results 
We are organized for management reporting purposes into three 
operating segments: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; 

and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. These segments are 

defined by product type and customer segment and their results 

are based on our management accounting process, for which 

there is no comprehensive, authoritative financial accounting 
guidance equivalent to generally accepted accounting principles 

(GAAP). Table 9 and the following discussion present our results 
by operating segment. For a more complete description of our 

operating segments, including additional financial information 

and the underlying management accounting process, see Note 

24 (Operating Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Table 9:  Operating Segment Results Œ Highlights 
Year ended December 31, 
(in billions) 
Community 
Banking  
Wholesale 
Banking  
Wealth, Brokerage 
and Retirement 
Other (1) 
Consolidated 
Company 
2013 
Revenue 
$ 50.3 24.1 13.2  (3.8)
 83.8 Provision (reversal of 
provision) for credit losses 
 2.8
 (0.4)
 - (0.1)
 2.3 Noninterest expense
 28.7
 12.4
 10.5
 (2.8)
 48.8 
Net income (loss)
 12.7 8.1 1.7  (0.6)
 21.9 Average loans 
$  499.3 
 290.0 
46.1  (30.4)
 805.0 
Average core deposits
 620.1 
 237.2 
 150.1 
 (65.3)
 942.1 
2012  

Revenue 
$ 53.4 24.1 12.2
 (3.6)
 86.1 
Provision for credit losses 
6.8 
0.3 0.1 -7.2 Noninterest expense 
30.8 12.1 9.9
 (2.4)
 50.4 
Net income (loss) 
10.5 
7.8  1.3
 (0.7)
 18.9 
Average loans 
$ 487.1 273.8 42.7 (28.4)
 775.2Average core deposits
 591.2 227.0 137.5 (61.8)
 893.92011  
Revenue 
$ 50.8 21.6 12.2 (3.7)
 80.9 Provision (reversal of 
provision) for credit losses 
8.0 (0.1) 
0.2 (0.2) 
7.9 Noninterest expense 
29.311.2 9.9  (1.0)
 49.4 Net income (loss) 
9.1
7.0 1.3  (1.5)
 15.9 Average loans 
$ 496.3 249.1 
43.0 (31.3) 
757.1 Average core deposits
 556.3 202.1 130.0 (61.7)
 826.7 (1) Includes corporate items not specific to a business segment and the elimination of certain items that are included in more than
 one business segment, substantially all of 
which represents products and services for wealth management customers provided in Community Banking stores. 
Community Banking 
offers a complete line of diversified 
financial products and services for consumers and small 
businesses. These products include investment, insurance and 

trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home 

equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. through its Regional 

Banking and Wells Fargo Home Lending business units. Cross-

sell of our products is an important part of our strategy to 

achieve our vision to satisfy all our customers™ financial needs. 

Our retail bank household cross-sell was a record 6.16 products 

per household in November 2013, up from 6.05 in November 

2012 and 5.93 in November 2011. We believe there is more 

opportunity for cross-sell as we continue to earn more business 

from our customers. Our goal is eight products per household, 

which is approximately one-half of our estimate of potential 

demand for an average U.S. household. In November 2013, one 

of every four of our retail banking households had eight or more 

of our products. 
Community Banking reported net income of $12.7 billion in 
2013, up $2.2 billion, or 21%, from $10.5 billion in 2012, which 

was up 15% from $9.1 billion in 2011. Revenue was $50.3 billion 
in 2013, a decrease of $3.1 billion, or 6%, compared with 

$53.4 billion in 2012, which was up 5% compared with 

$50.8 billion in 2011. The decrease in 2013 was a result of lower 
mortgage banking revenue, partially offset by higher trust and 

investment fees, and revenue from debit, credit and merchant 

card volumes. The increase in 2012 was the result of higher 

mortgage banking revenue and growth in deposit service 

charges, partially offset by lower debit card revenue due to 

regulatory changes enacted in 
October 2011, and lower net 
interest income. Average core deposits increased $28.9 billion in 

2013, or 5%, from 2012, which increased $34.9 billion, or 6%, 

from 2011. Noninterest expense declined $2.1 billion in 2013, or 

7%, from 2012, which increased $1.6 billion, or 5%, from 2011. 

The decrease in noninterest expense for 2013 reflected lower 

FDIC and other deposit insurance assessments due to lower 

FDIC assessment rates. Noninterest expense for 2012 was 

elevated, compared with 2013 and 2011, due to costs associated 

with settling mortgage servicing 
and foreclosure-related matters 
including the DOJ and the IFR settlement, and a $250 million 

contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. The provision for 
              
           
                                          
        credit losses of $2.8 billion in 2013 was 60% lower than 2012, 
which was $1.1 billion, or 14%, lower than 2011, due to improved 

portfolio performance in both 2013 and 2012. 
Wholesale Banking
 provides financial solutions to businesses 
across the United States and globally with annual sales generally 
in excess of $20 million. Products and business segments 

include Middle Market Commercial Banking, Government and 

Institutional Banking, Corporate Banking, Commercial Real 

Estate, Treasury Management, Wells Fargo Capital Finance, 

Insurance, International, Real Estate Capital Markets, 

Commercial Mortgage Servicing, Corporate Trust, Equipment 

Finance, Wells Fargo Securities, Principal Investments, Asset 

Backed Finance, and Asset Management. Wholesale Banking 

cross-sell was a record 7.1 products per customer in 

September 2013, up from 6.8 in September 2012 and 6.5 in 

September 2011. Wholesale Banking reported net income of $8.1 billion in 
2013, up $359 million, or 5%, from $7.8 billion in 2012, which 

was up 11% from $7.0 billion in 2011. The year over year 

increase in net income during 2013 was the result of 

improvement in provision for credit losses and stable revenue 

performance partially offset by increased noninterest expense. 

The year over year increase in net income during 2012 was the 

result of strong revenue growth partially offset by increased 

noninterest expense and a higher provision for credit losses. 

Revenue in 2013 of $24.1 billion was flat from 2012, as business 

growth from asset backed finance, asset management, capital 

markets and commercial real estate was offset by lower PCI 

resolution income. Revenue in 2012 of $24.1 billion increased 

$2.5 billion, or 12%, from 2011, due to broad-based business 

growth as well as growth from acquisitions. Net interest income 

of $12.3 billion in 2013 decreased $350 million, or 3%, from 

2012, which was up 9% from 2011. The decrease in 2013 was due 

to a strong loan and deposit growth, which was more than offset 

by lower PCI resolutions and net interest margin compression. 

The increase in 2012 was driven by strong loan and deposit 

growth. Average loans of $290.0 billion in 2013 increased 

$16.2 billion, or 6%, from $273.8 billion in 2012, which was up 

10% from $249.1 billion in 2011. The loan growth in both 2013 

and 2012 was driven by strong customer demand as well as 

growth from acquisitions. Average core deposits of $237.2 

billion in 2013 increased $10.2 billion, or 4%, from 2012 which 

was up 12%, from 2011, reflecting continued strong customer 

liquidity for both years. Noninterest income of $11.8 billion in 

2013 increased $322 million, or 
3%, from 2012 due to strong 
growth in asset backed finance, asset management, capital 

markets, commercial banking, 
commercial real estate and 
corporate banking. Noninterest income of $11.4 billion in 2012 

increased $1.5 billion, or 15%, from 2011 due to strong growth in 

asset backed finance, capital markets, commercial banking, 

commercial real estate and real estate capital markets. Total 

noninterest expense in 2013 increased $296 million, or 2%, 

compared with 2012, which was up 8%, or $905 million, from 

2011. The increase in both 2013 and 2012 was due to higher 

personnel expenses and higher non-personnel expenses related 
to growth initiatives and compliance and regulatory 

requirements, partially offset in 2013 by lower foreclosed asset 
expenses. The provision for credit losses decreased $731 million 

from 2012, due to lower loan losses, while the provision for 

credit losses increased $396 million in 2012 from 2011, as a 

$319 million decline in loan losses was more than offset by a 

provision for increase in loans, particularly from acquisitions. 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
 provides a full range of 
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach 
to meet each client's financial needs. Wealth Management 

provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete 

range of wealth management solutions, including financial 

planning, private banking, cred
it, investment management and 

fiduciary services. Abbot Downing, a Wells Fargo business, 

provides comprehensive wealth management services to ultra 

high net worth families and individuals as well as endowments 

and foundations. Brokerage serves customers' advisory, 

brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-

service brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a 

national leader in providing in
stitutional retirement and trust 
services (including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for 

businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and 

reinsurance services for the life insurance industry. Wealth, 

Brokerage and Retirement cross-sell reached a record 

10.42 products per household in November 2013, up from 

10.27 in November 2012 and 10.05 in November 2011. 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of 
$1.7 billion in 2013, up $384 million, or 29%, from 2012, which 
was up 4% from $1.3 billion in 2011. Net income growth in 2013 

was driven by higher noninterest income and improved credit 

quality. Growth in net income for 2012 was affected by the 

$153 million gain on the sale of the H.D. Vest Financial Services 

business included in the 2011 results. Revenue of $13.2 billion in 

2013 increased $1.0 billion from 2012, which was flat compared 

with 2011. The increase in revenue for 2013 was due to increases 

in both net interest income and 
noninterest income. Net interest 

income increased 4% in 2013, due to growth in loan balances 

and low-cost core deposits, partially offset by lower interest rates 

on the loan and investment portfolios. Net interest income 

decreased 3% in 2012 due to lower interest rates on the loan and 

investment portfolios partially offset by the impact of growth in 

low-cost core deposits. Average core deposits in 2013 of 

$150.1 billion increased 9% from 2012, which was up 6% from 

2011. Noninterest income increased 10% in 2013 from 2012, 

largely due to strong growth in asset-based fees from improved 

market performance and growth in assets under management, 

partially offset by reduced securities gains in the brokerage 

business. A slight increase of $59 million in noninterest income 

in 2012 compared with 2011 was due to higher asset-based fees 

and gains on deferred compensation plan investments (offset in 

expense), partially offset by the 2011 gain on the sale of H.D. 

Vest Financial Services business, lower transaction revenue and 

reduced securities gains in the brokerage business. Noninterest 

expense for 2013 was up 6% from 2012, which was flat from 

2011. The increase in 2013 was predominantly due to higher 

personnel expenses, primarily reflecting increased broker 

commissions. Noninterest expense for 2012 included the impact 

of deferred compensation plan expense (offset in revenue). Total 

provision for credit losses improved for both 2013 and 2012, 
                              
                    
        
                
         
    
   
        
       
        
                          
     
    
     
  
  
  
       
   
     
       
  
  
              
      
  
  
           
                        
                  
   Earnings Performance 
(continued) 
driven by lower net charge-offs and continued improvement in 

credit quality. 
Balance Sheet Analysis 
At December 31, 2013, our assets totaled $1.5 trillion, up 

$104.0 billion from December 31, 2012. The predominant areas 

of asset growth were in federal funds sold and other short-term 

investments, which increased $76.5 billion, investment 

securities, which increased $29.2 billion, and loans, which 

increased $26.2 billion, partially offset by a $30.4 billion 

decrease in mortgages held for sale. Deposit growth of 

$76.3 billion, total equity growth of $12.1 billion and an increase 

in long-term debt of $25.6 billion from December 31, 2012 were 

the predominant sources funding our asset growth during 2013. 

The deposit growth resulted in an increase in the proportion of 

interest-bearing deposits. Eq
uity growth benefited from 
$14.7 billion in earnings net of dividends paid, as well as from 

the issuance of preferred stock. The strength of our business 

model produced record earnings and continued internal capital 
generation as reflected in our capital ratios, all of which 

improved from December 31, 2012. Tier 1 capital as a percentage 

of total risk-weighted assets increased to 12.33%, total capital 

increased to 15.43%, Tier 1 leverage increased to 9.60%, and 

Tier 1 common equity increased to 10.82% at December 31, 

2013, compared with 11.75%, 14.63%, 9.47%, and 10.12%, 

respectively, at December 31, 2012. 
The following discussion provides additional information 
about the major components of our balance sheet. Information 

regarding our capital and changes in our asset mix is included in 

the ﬁEarnings Performance Œ Net Interest Incomeﬂ and ﬁCapital 
Managementﬂ sections and Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency 

Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Investment Securities 
Table 10:  Investment Securities Œ Summary 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Cost 
Net 
unrealized 
gain (loss) 
Fair value 
Cost 
 Net 
unrealized 
gain 
Fair 
value 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Debt securities 
$ 246,048 
 2,574 
 248,622 
220,946 11,468 232,414 Marketable equity securities
 2,039 
 1,346 
 3,385 
2,337 448 2,785 Total available-for-sale securities
 248,087 
 3,920 
 252,007 
223,283 11,916 235,199 Held-to-maturity securities
 12,346 
 (99)
 12,247 
---Total investment securities (1) 
$ 260,433 
 3,821 
 264,254 
223,283 11,916 235,199 (1) Available-for-sale securities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are carried on the ba
lance sheet at amortized cost. 
Table 10 presents a summary of our investment securities 
portfolio, which consists of debt securities classified as available-

for-sale and held-to-maturity and marketable equity securities 
classified as available-for-sale. During fourth quarter 2013, we 
began purchasing high-quality agency mortgage-backed 
securities (MBS) into our held-to-maturity portfolio. 
Additionally, we transferred a portfolio of asset-backed 

securities (ABS) primarily collateralized by auto loans and leases 

from available-for-sale, reflecting our intent to hold these 
securities to maturity. Our investment securities portfolio 

increased $29.2 billion from December 31, 2012, primarily due 

to purchases of agency MBS. The total net unrealized gains on 

available-for-sale securities were $3.9 billion at 
December 31, 2013, down from net unrealized gains of 
$11.9 billion at December 31, 2012, due primarily to an increase 

in long-term interest rates. 
The size and composition of the investment securities 
portfolio is largely dependent upon the Company™s liquidity and 

interest rate risk management objectives. Our business generates 

assets and liabilities, such as loans, deposits and long-term debt, 
which have different maturities, yields, re-pricing, prepayment 
characteristics and other provisions
 that expose us to interest 
rate and liquidity risk. The available-for-sale securities portfolio 
consists primarily of liquid, high quality agency debt and MBS, 

privately issued residential and commercial MBS, securities 

issued by U.S. states and political subdivisions, corporate debt 

securities, and highly rated collateralized loan obligations. Due 

to its highly liquid nature, the available-for-sale portfolio can be 

used to meet funding needs that arise in the normal course of 

business or due to market stress. Changes in our interest rate 

risk profile may occur due to changes in overall economic or 

market conditions, which could influence loan origination 

demand, prepayment speeds, or deposit balances and mix. In 

response, the available-for-sale securities portfolio can be 

rebalanced to meet the Company™s interest rate risk 

management objectives. In addition to meeting liquidity and 

interest rate risk management objectives, the available-for-sale 
securities portfolio may provide yield enhancement over other 

short-term assets. See the ﬁRisk Management Œ Asset/Liability 
Managementﬂ section in this Report for more information on 

liquidity and interest rate risk. The held-to-maturity securities 
portfolio consists primarily of high quality agency MBS and ABS 
                                                   
            
          
        
  
  
     
      
     
     
              
  
    
   
       
    
     primarily collateralized by auto loans and leases, where our 
intent is to hold these securities to maturity and collect the 

contractual cash flows. The held-to-maturity portfolio may also 

provide yield enhancement over short-term assets. 
We analyze securities for OTTI quarterly or more often if a 
potential loss-triggering event occurs. Of the $344 million in 

OTTI write-downs recognized in 2013, $158 million related to 

debt securities and $25 million related to marketable equity 

securities, which are each included in available-for-sale 
securities. Another $161 million in OTTI write-downs is related 
to nonmarketable equity investments, which are included in 

other assets. For a discussion of our OTTI accounting policies 

and underlying considerations and analysis see Note 1 

(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Œ Investments) and 

Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
At December 31, 2013, investment securities included 
$42.5 billion of municipal bonds, of which 86% were rated ﬁA-ﬂ 
or better based predominantly on external and, in some cases, 

internal ratings. Additionally, some of the securities in our total 

municipal bond portfolio are guaranteed against loss by bond 

insurers. These guaranteed bonds are predominantly investment 

grade and were generally underwritten in accordance with our 

own investment standards prior to the determination to 

purchase, without relying on the bond insurer™s guarantee in 

making the investment decision. Our municipal bond holdings 

are monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis. 
The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities 
available-for-sale was 7.5 years at December 31, 2013. Because 

60% of this portfolio is MBS, the expected remaining maturity is 

shorter than the remaining contractual maturity because 

borrowers generally have the right to prepay obligations before 

the underlying mortgages mature. The estimated effects of a 

200 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates on the fair 

value and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS available-
for-sale are shown in Table 11. 
Table 11: Mortgage-Backed Securities 
(in billions) 
Fair 
value 
Net 
unrealized  
gain (loss) 
Expected  
remaining 
maturity 
(in years) 
At December 31, 2013 
Actual 
$ 148.8
 0.7 6.4 Assuming a 200 basis point: 
Increase in interest rates 
133.7 (14.4) 
7.5 Decrease in interest rates
 159.1 11.0 3.6 See Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in 
this Report for a summary of investment securities by security 
type.                            
              
  
   
              
         
          
            
            
                             
    
   
        
                     
     
               
                               
                     
  
  
  
           
  
  
  
           
  
  
  
   
        
  
  
  
       
        
  
  
  
         
                 
      
                 
        
                   
       
  
  
  
     
   
      
                   
        
  
  
  
       
        
  
  
  
                            Balance Sheet Analysis 
(continued) 
Loan Portfolio 
Total loans were $825.8 billion at December 31, 2013, up 
$26.2 billion from December 31, 2012. Table 12 provides a 

summary of total outstanding loans by non-strategic/liquidating 

and core loan portfolios. The runoff in the non-

strategic/liquidating portfolios was $13.7 billion, while loans in 

the core portfolio grew $39.9 billion from December 31, 2012. 

Our core loan growth in 2013 included: 
a $20.7 billion increase in the commercial segment 

predominantly from growth in commercial and industrial 

loans and foreign loans, which included $5.2 billion of 
commercial real estate portfolio acquisitions, consisting of 

$4.0 billion U.K. commercial real estate loans classified 

within foreign loans and $1.2 billion within commercial real 

estate mortgage; and 
a $19.2 billion increase in consumer loans, predominantly 

from growth in first lien mortgages. 
Additional information on the non-strategic and liquidating 
loan portfolios is included in Table 17 in the ﬁRisk Management 

Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ section in this Report. 
Table 12:  Loan Portfolios 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Core Liquidating 
Total 
Core 
Liquidating 
Total 
Commercial 
$ 378,743 
 2,013 
 380,756 
358,028 3,170 361,198 Consumer
 366,190 
 78,853 
 445,043 
 346,984 91,392438,376 Total loans 
$  744,933 
 80,866 
 825,799 
705,012 94,562 799,574 A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative 
detail of average loan balances is included in Table 5 under 

ﬁEarnings Performance Œ Net Interest Incomeﬂ earlier in this 

Report. Additional information on total loans outstanding by 

portfolio segment and class of financing receivable is included in 

the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ section in 

this Report. Period-end balances and other loan related 
information are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit 

Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Table 13 shows contractual loan maturities for loan 
categories normally not subject to regular periodic principal 

reduction and sensitivities of those loans to changes in interest 

rates. 
Table 13: Maturities for Selected Commercial Loan Categories 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Within
one
year After 
 one year 
 through 
five years 
After 
five 
years Total 
Within 
one 
year 
After  
one year 
through 
five years  
After  
five 
years  
Total 
Selected loan maturities: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 44,801 
 131,745 
 20,664 
 197,210 
45,212 123,578 18,969 187,759 Real estate mortgage
 17,746 
 60,004 
 29,350 
 107,100 
 22,328 56,085 27,927106,340 Real estate construction
 6,095 
 9,207 
 1,445 
 16,747 
 7,685 7,961 1,25816,904 Foreign
 33,681 
 11,602 
 2,382 
 47,665 
 27,219 7,460 3,09237,771 Total selected loans 
$ 102,323 
 212,558 
 53,841 
 368,722 
102,444 195,084 51,246 348,774 Distribution of loans to 
changes in interest rates: 
Loans at fixed 
interest rates 
$ 18,409 
 23,891 
 14,684 
 56,984 
17,218 20,894 11,387 49,499 Loans at floating/variable 
interest rates
 83,914 
 188,667 
 39,157 
 311,738 
 85,226 174,190 39,859299,275 Total selected loans 
$ 102,323 
 212,558 
 53,841 
 368,722 
102,444 195,084 51,246 348,774 Deposits 
Deposits totaled $1.1 trillion at December 31, 2013, compared 
with $1.0 trillion at December 31, 2012. Table 14 provides 

additional information regarding deposits. Deposit growth of 

$76 billion from December 31, 2012 reflected continued 

customer-driven growth as well as liquidity-related issuances 

of term deposits. Information regarding the impact of deposits 
on net interest income and a comparison of average deposit 

balances is provided in ﬁEarnings Performance Œ Net Interest 

Incomeﬂ and Table 5 earlier in this Report. Total core deposits 

were $980.1 billion at December 31, 2013, up $34.4 billion 

from $945.7 billion at December 31, 2012. 
Table 14:  Deposits 
($ in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
% of total 
deposits 
Dec. 31, 
2012 % of total 
deposits
%  Change 
Noninterest-bearing 
$ 288,116 
 27 %  $ 288,207 29 %
 -Interest-bearing checking
 37,346 
3 35,275 4 6 Market rate and other savings
 556,763 
52 517,464 52 8 Savings certificates
 41,567 
4 55,966 6  (26) 
Foreign deposits (1)
 56,271 
5 48,837 4 15 Core deposits
 980,063 
91 945,749 95 4 Other time and savings deposits
 64,477 
6 33,755 3 91 Other foreign deposits
 34,637 
3 23,331 2 48 Total deposits 
$ 1,079,177 
 100 %  $  1,002,835 
 100 %
 8 (1) Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits. 
Equity Total equity was $171.0 billion at December 31, 2013 compared 

with $158.9 billion at December 31, 2012. The increase was 

predominantly driven by a $14.7 billion increase in retained 

earnings from earnings net of dividends paid, partially offset by 

a $4.3 billion decline in cumulative other comprehensive 

income (OCI). The decline in OCI was due to a $7.9 billion 

($4.9 billion after tax) reduction in net unrealized gains on our 

investment securities portfolio resulting from an increase in 
long-term interest rates. This decline was partially offset by our 

re-measurement of our pension and post-retirement plan 
liabilities, combined with pension settlement losses and 

amortization of actuarial losses, which increased cumulative 

other comprehensive income by $1.8 billion ($1.1 billion after 

tax). See Note 5 (Investment Securities) and Note 20 

(Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial 

Statements in this Report for additional information. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial 

transactions that are not recorded on the balance sheet, or may 

be recorded on the balance sheet in amounts that are different 

from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. Our 

off-balance sheet arrangements include commitments to lend, 

transactions with unconsolidated entities, guarantees, 

derivatives, and other commitments. These transactions are 

designed to (1) meet the financial needs of customers, (2) 

manage our credit, market or liquidity risks, and/or (3) diversify 

our funding sources. 
Commitments to Lend 
We enter into commitments to lend funds to customers, which 

are usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, and for specific 

purposes and time periods. When we make commitments, we 

are exposed to credit risk. However, the maximum credit risk for 

these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual 

amount because a significant portion of these commitments are 

not expected to be fully utilized or will expire without being used 

by the customer. For more information on lending 

commitments, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit 

Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities 
We routinely enter into various types of on- and off-balance 

sheet transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which 

are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for a 

limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with 

securitization transactions. For more information on 

securitizations, including sales proceeds and cash flows from 

securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest 

Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Guarantees and Certain Contingent 
Arrangements 
Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make 
payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in 

an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are 

generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities 

lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements, 

written put options, recourse obligations for loans and 

mortgages sold, and contingent consideration. 
For more information on guarantees and certain contingent 
arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and 

Collateral) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
(continued) 
Derivatives
We primarily use derivatives to 
manage exposure to market risk, 
including interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, 

and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. 

Derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value and 

can be measured in terms of the notional amount, which is 

generally not exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which 

interest and other payments are determined. The notional 

amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when 

viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk profile of 

the instruments. 
For more information on derivatives, see Note 16 
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report.
Contractual Cash Obligations 
In addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements 

previously described, which, depending on the nature of the 

obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we enter 

into other contractual obligations that may require future cash 

payments in the ordinary course of business, including debt 

issuances for the funding of operations and leases for premises 

and equipment. 
Table 15 summarizes these contractual obligations as of 
December 31, 2013, excluding the projected cash payments for 

obligations for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension 
and postretirement benefit plans. More information on those 

obligations is in Note 12 (Short-Term Borrowings) and Note 20 

(Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial 

Statements in this Report.  
Table 15:  Contractual Cash Obligations 
(in millions) 
Note(s) to 
Financial 
Statements  
Less than  
1 year  
1-3  
years  
3-5  
years  
More 
than 5 years 
Indeterminate  
maturity 
Total  
Contractual 
payments 
by 
period: 
Deposits (1) 
11 $ 86,958 
20,932 5,924 3,619 961,744 1,079,177  
Long-term debt (2) 
7, 13 
12,800 46,263 39,981 53,954 -152,998 Interest (3) 
2,494 3,776 2,436 10,292 -18,998 Operating leases 
7 1,155 1,960 1,426 2,812 -7,353 Unrecognized tax obligations 
21 8 ---2,839 2,847 Commitments to purchase debt 
and equity securities (4) 
3,041 1,013 7 --4,061 Purchase and other obligations (5) 
302 592 51 7 -952 Total contractual obligations 
$ 106,758 
74,536 49,825 70,684 964,583 1,266,386 
(1) Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings accounts. 
(2) Balances are presented net of unamortized debt discounts and premiums and purchase accounting adjustments. 
(3) Represents the future interest obligations related to interest-bearing time deposits and long-term debt in the normal course of
 business including a net reduction of 
$26 billion related to hedges used to manage interest rate risk. These interest obligations assume no early debt redemption. We
 estimated variable interest rate payments 
using December, 31 2013 rates, which we held constant until maturity. We have excluded interest related to structured notes whe
re our payment obligation is contingent on 
the performance of certain benchmarks. 
(4) Includes unfunded commitments to purchase debt and equity investments, excluding trade date payables, of $2.8 billion and $1.2 
billion, respectively. Our unfunded equity 
commitments include certain investments subject to the Volcker Rule, which we expect to divest in the near future. For addition
al information regarding the Volcker Rule, see 
the "Regulatory Reform" section in this Report. We have presented our contractual obligations on equity investments above in th
e maturing in less than one year category as 
there are no specified contribution dates in the agreements. These obligations may be requested at any time by the investment m
anager. 
(5) Represents agreements to purchase goods or services. 
We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states 
and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in 

which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax 

obligations related to these operations that may require future 

cash tax payments to various taxing authorities. Because of 

their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of 

these payments generally are not reasonably estimable or 

determinable. We attempt to 
estimate the amount payable in 
the next 12 months based on the status of our tax examinations 

and settlement discussions. See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for more information. 
Transactions with Related Parties 
The Related Party Disclosures topic of the Accounting 

Standards Codification (ASC) requires disclosure of material 

related party transactions, other than compensation 

arrangements, expense allowances and other similar items in 

the ordinary course of business. We had no related party 

transactions required to be reported for the years ended 

December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. 
Risk Management Financial institutions must mana
ge a variety of business risks 
that can significantly affect their financial performance. Among 
the key risks that we must manage are operational risks, credit 

risks, and asset/liability management risks, which include 

interest rate, market, and liquidity and funding risks. Our risk 

culture is strongly rooted in our 
Vision and Values
, and in 
order to succeed in our mission of satisfying all our customers™ 

financial needs and helping them succeed financially, our 

business practices and operating model must support prudent 

risk management practices. 
Risk Management Framework and Culture 
The key elements of our risk management framework and 

culture include the following: 

We strongly believe in managing risk as close to 

the source as possible
. We manage risk through three 
lines of defense, and the first line of defense is our team 

members in our lines of business who are responsible for 

identifying, assessing, monitoring, managing, mitigating, 

and owning the risks in their businesses. All of our team 

members have accountability for risk management. 
We recognize the importance of strong oversight
. Our Corporate Risk group, led by our Chief Risk Officer 
who reports to the Board™s Risk Committee, as well as 

other corporate functions such as the Law Department, 

Corporate Controllers, and the Human Resources 

Department serve as the second line of defense and 

provide company-wide leadership, oversight, an enterprise 

view, and appropriate challenge to help ensure effective 

and consistent understanding and management of all risks 

by our lines of business. Wells Fargo Audit Services, led by 

our Chief Auditor who reports to the Board™s Audit and 

Examination Committee, serves as the third line of defense 

and through its audit, assurance, and advisory work 

evaluates and helps improve the effectiveness of the 

governance, risk management, and control processes 

across the enterprise. 
We have a significant bias for conservatism
. We strive to maintain a conservative financial position 

measured by satisfactory asset quality, capital levels, 

funding sources, and diversity of revenues. Our risk is 

distributed by geography, product type, industry segment, 

and asset class, and while we want to grow the Company, 

we will attempt to do so in a way that supports our long-

term goals and does not compromise our ability to manage 

risk.  
We have a long-term customer focus
. Our focus is 
on knowing our customers and meeting our customers™ 

long-term financial needs by offering products and value-

added services that are appropriate for their needs and 

circumstances. In addition, our team members are 

committed to operational excellence, and we recognize 

that our infrastructure, systems, processes, and 

compliance programs must support the financial success 

of our customers through a superior customer service 

experience. 
We must understand and follow our risk appetite
. Our risk management framework is based on 
understanding and following our overall enterprise 

statement of risk appetite, which describes the nature and 

level of risks that we are willing to take to achieve our 

strategic and business objectives. This statement provides 

the philosophical underpinnings that guide business and 

risk leaders as they manage risk on a day-to-day basis. Our 

CEO and Operating Committee, which consists of our 

Chief Risk Officer and other senior executives, develop our 

enterprise statement of risk appetite in the context of our 

risk management framework and culture described above. 

The Board approves our statement of risk appetite 

annually, and the Board™s Risk Committee reviews and 

approves any proposed changes to the statement to help 

ensure that it remains consistent with our risk profile. 
As part of our review of our risk appetite, we maintain 
metrics along with associated objectives to measure and 

monitor the amount of risk that the Company is prepared to 

take. Actual results of these metrics are reported to the 

Enterprise Risk Management Committee on a quarterly basis 

as well as to the Risk Committee of the Board. Our operating 

segments also have business-specific risk appetite statements 

based on the enterprise statement of risk appetite. The metrics 

included in the operating segment statements are harmonized 

with the enterprise level metrics to ensure consistency where 

appropriate. Business lines also maintain metrics and 

qualitative statements that are unique to their line of business. 

This allows for monitoring of 
risk and definition of risk 
appetite deeper within the organization. 
Our risk culture seeks to promote proactive risk 
management and putting the customer first by implementing 

an ongoing program of training, performance management, 

and regular communication. Our risk culture also depends on 

the ﬁtone at the topﬂ set by our Board, CEO, and Operating 

Committee members. Through oversight of the three lines of 

defense, the Board and the Operating Committee are the 

starting point for establishing and reinforcing our risk culture 

and have overall and ultimate responsibility for oversight of 

our risks, which they carry out through committees with 

specific risk management functions. 
Board Oversight of Risk 
The Board performs its risk oversight function primarily 

through its seven standing committees, all of which report to 

the full Board. Each of the Board™s committees is responsible 

for oversight of specific risks, including reputation risks, as 

outlined in each of their charters and as summarized on the 

following chart. The Risk Committee assists the Board and its 

other committees by, among other things, helping to ensure 

end-to-end ownership of oversight of all risk issues in one 
Board committee, overseeing risk across the entire Company 

and across all risk types, and by reviewing and monitoring the 

Company™s overall risk appetite. To facilitate discussion and 

communication about enterprise-wide risk matters and avoid 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
unnecessary duplication, the Risk Committee™s members 
consist of the chairs of each of the Board™s other committees. 
Board of Directors 
Annually approves overall enterprise risk appetite statement 
Board Committees 
Risk Committee 
Oversight includes: 
 Enterprise-wide risk 
management 
framework, including 

processes and resources 
necessary to execute the 
Company™s risk program 
 Performance of Chief 
Risk Officer  
Aggregate enterprise-
wide risk profile and 
alignment of risk profile 
with strategy, objectives, 
and risk appetite 
Risk appetite statement, 
including changes in risk 
appetite, and adherence 
to risk limits 
Emerging risks 
Risks associated with 
acquisitions and 
significant new business 
or strate
gic initiatives 
Audit & 
Examination 
Committee

Oversight includes: 
Internal controls 
over financial 
reporting 
External auditor 
performance 
Internal audit 
function, including 
performance of Chief 
Auditor 
Legal, regulatory, 
and compliance risks 
Operational risks, 
including technology 
 Major financial risk 
exposures and 
general process for 
risk assessment and 
mana
gement 
Finance Committee 
Oversight includes: 
Interest rate risk, 
including the MSR 
Market risk, including 
trading and derivative 
activities and 
counterparty risks 
Liquidity and funding 

risks 
Investment risk, 
including fixed-
income and equity 
portfolios 
Capital adequacy 
assessment and 
planning, and stress 
testin
g activities 
Credit Committee 
Oversight includes: 
 Credit risk, 
including high risk 
portfolios  
 Allowance for credit 
losses, including 
governance and 
methodology 
Adherence to 
enterprise credit 
risk appetite 
metrics and 
concentration limits 
Compliance with 
lending policies and 
credit underwriting 
standards 
Credit stress testing 
activities 
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Committee 
Oversight includes: 
Mortgage and 
other consumer 
lending 
reputational risks 
Reputation with 

customers, 
including 

complaints and
service matters 
Social 
responsibility 
risks, including 
political and 
environmental 
risks 
Human Resources 
Committee 
Oversight includes: 
 Compensation 
risk management 
Talent 
management and 
succession 
planning 
Governance & 
Nominating 
Committee 
Oversight includes: 
Corporate 
governance 
compliance 
 Board and 
committee 
performance  
Management™s Oversight of Risk 
The Board and its committees work closely with management 

in overseeing risk. Each Board committee receives reports and 

information regarding risk issues directly from management. 

Managers are accountable for managing risks through day-to-
day operations and, in some cases, management committees 

have been established to inform the risk management 

framework and provide governance and advice regarding 

management functions. These committees include:  
 The 
Operating Committee
, which meets weekly to, 
among other things, discuss strategic, operational and risk 
issues at the enterprise level. 
 The 
Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
(ERMC)
, which meets regularly during the year and 
reviews significant and emerging risk topics and high-risk 
business initiatives, particularly those that may result in 

additional regulatory or reputational risk. 
 The 
Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO)
, which is responsible for enterprise-wide oversight of the Company's 

balance sheet, interest rate exposure, market risks, 

liquidity, and capital. The committee provides guidance 

and recommendations to management and the Board 

related to risk management for these areas. 
 The 
Market Risk Committee,
 which provides oversight 
of the Company™s market risk exposures to ensure 

significant market risks throughout the Company are 

identified, measured and moni
tored in accordance with 
the Company™s stated risk appetite. 
 The 
Compliance and Operational Risk Committee 

(CORC)
, which provides a forum for senior risk managers 
to focus on enterprise-wide compliance and operational 

risk issues, and provides leadership and direction in 

evaluating management of operational risks, establishing 

priorities, and fostering collaboration and coordination of 

risk management activities across the Company. 
 The 
Regulatory Compliance Risk Management 

Committee (RCRM)
, which provides a forum for senior 
compliance managers to provide leadership, direction, and 

assessment of the management of enterprise-wide 

regulatory risks, and to escalate such risks to the chief 

compliance officer as necessary 
 The 
Corporate Allowance for Credit Losses 

Approval Committee,
 which reviews the process and 
supporting analytics for allowance for loan and lease losses 

and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments to 

help ensure allowances for credit losses are maintained at 

adequate levels in conformity with generally accepted 

accounting principles and regulatory guidelines. 
These committees help management facilitate enterprise-
wide understanding and monitoring of risks and challenges 

faced by the Company. Management™s corporate risk 

organization, which is part of the second line of defense, is 

headed by the Company™s Chief Risk Officer who, among other 

things, provides oversight, opines on the performance and 

strategy of all risks taken by the businesses, and provides 

credible challenge to risks incurred. The Chief Risk Officer, as 

well as the Chief Enterprise, Credit, Market, and Operational 

Risk Officers as his or her direct reports, work closely with the 

Board™s committees and frequently provide reports and 

updates to the committees and the committee chairs on risk 

issues during and outside of regular committee meetings, as 

appropriate. The full Board receives reports at each of its 

meetings from the committee chairs about committee 

activities, including risk oversight matters, and receives a 

quarterly report from the ERMC regarding current or emerging 

risk issues. 
Further discussion and specific examples of reporting, 
measurement and monitoring techniques we use in each risk 

area are included within the subsequent sub-sections of the 

Risk Management section in this Report. 
Operational Risk Management 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or 

failed internal processes or systems, or resulting from external 

events or third parties. Information security is a significant 

operational risk for financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, 

and includes the risk of losses resulting from cyber attacks. 

Wells Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions 

continue to be the target of various evolving and adaptive 

denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part of what appears 

to be a coordinated effort to di
srupt the operations of financial 
institutions and potentially test 
their cybersecurity capabilities. 
Wells Fargo has not experienced any material losses relating to 

these or other cyber attacks. Cybersecurity and the continued 

development and enhancement of our controls, processes and 

systems to protect our networks, computers, software, and data 

from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority 

for Wells Fargo. See the ﬁRisk Fa
ctorsﬂ section in this Report 

for additional information regarding the risks associated with a 

failure or breach of our operational or security systems or 

infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
Credit Risk Management 
Loans represent the largest component of assets on our balance 
sheet and their related credit risk is a significant risk we 

manage. We define credit risk as the risk of loss associated with 

a borrower or counterparty default (failure to meet obligations 

in accordance with agreed upon terms). Table 16 presents our 

total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of 

financing receivable. 
Table 16:  Total Loans Outstanding by Portfolio Segment and 
Class of Financing Receivable 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 197,210 
187,759 Real estate mortgage
 107,100 
106,340 Real estate construction
 16,747 
16,904 Lease financing
 12,034 
12,424 Foreign (1)
 47,665 
37,771 Total commercial
 380,756 
361,198 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 258,497 
249,900 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 65,914 
75,465 Credit card
 26,870 
24,640 Automobile
 50,808 
45,998 Other revolving credit and installment
 42,954 
42,373 Total consumer 
 445,043 
438,376 Total loans 
$ 825,799 
799,574 (1) Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are 
classified as foreign primarily based on whether the borrower™s primary address is 

outside of the United States. 
We manage our credit risk by establishing what we believe 
are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while 
monitoring and reviewing the performance of our existing loan 

portfolios. We employ various credit risk management and 

monitoring activities to mitigate risks associated with multiple 

risk factors affecting loans we hold, could acquire or originate 

including: 

 Loan concentrations and related credit quality 
 Counterparty credit risk 
 Economic and market conditions 
 Legislative or regulatory mandates 
 Changes in interest rates 
 Merger and acquisition activities 
 Reputation risk 
Our cr
edit risk management oversight process is governed 
centrally, but provides for decentralized management and 

accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit 

process includes comprehensive credit policies, disciplined 

credit underwriting, frequent 
and detailed risk measurement 
and modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a 

continual loan review and audit process. 
A key to our credit risk management is adherence to a well-
controlled underwriting process, which we believe is 

appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors 

who purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans. 
Credit Quality Overview  
Credit quality continued to 
improve during 2013 due in part to improving economic 
conditions as well as our proactive credit risk management 

activities. The improvement occurred for both commercial and 

consumer portfolios as evidenced by their credit metrics: 
 Nonaccrual loans decreased to $3.5 billion and $12.2 billion 
in our comm
ercial and consumer portfolios, respectively, at 
December 31, 2013, from $5.8 billion and $14.7 billion at 

December 31, 2012. Nonaccrual loans represented 1.90% of 

total loans at December 31, 2013, compared with 2.56% at 

December 31, 2012. 
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans 

improv
ed to 0.56% in 2013 compared with 1.17% a year ago 
and were 0.06% and 0.98% in our commercial and 

consumer portfolios, respectively, compared with 0.35% 

and 1.84% in 2012. 
Loans that are not government insured/guaranteed and 

90 days or mo
re past due and still accruing decreased to 
$143 million and $902 million in our commercial and 

consumer portfolios, respectively, at December 31, 2013, 

from $303 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2012. 
In addition to credit metric improvements we saw 
improvement in various economic indicators such as home 

prices that influenced our evaluation of the allowance and 

provision for credit losses. Accordingly: 

 Our provision for credit losses decreased to $2.3 billion in 

2013 fr
om $7.2 billion in 2012. 
The allowance for credit losses decreased to $15.0 billion at 

December 31, 2013 from $17.5 billion at December 31, 2012. 
Additional information on our loan portfolios and our 
credit quality trends follows. 
Non-Strategic and Liquidating Loan Portfolios 
We continually evaluate and modify our credit policies to address 

appropriate levels of risk. We may designate certain portfolios 

and loan products as non-strategic or liquidating after we cease 

their continued origination and actively work to limit losses 

and reduce our exposures. 
Table 17 identifies our non-strategic and liquidating loan 
portfolios. They consist primarily of the Pick-a-Pay mortgage 

portfolio and PCI loans acquired from Wachovia, certain 

portfolios from legacy Wells Fargo Home Equity and Wells 

Fargo Financial, and our education finance government 

guaranteed loan portfolio. The total balance of our non-

strategic and liquidating loan portfolios has decreased 58% 

since the merger with Wachovia at December 31, 2008, and 

decreased 14% from the end of 2012. 
The home equity portfolio of loans generated through third 
party channels is designated as liquidating. Additional 

information regarding this portfolio, as well as the liquidating 

PCI and Pick-a-Pay loan portfolios, is provided in the 

discussion of loan portfolios that follows. 
Table 17:  Non-Strategic and Liquidating Loan Portfolios 
Outstanding balance 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2008 Commercial: 
Legacy Wachovia commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans (1) 
$ 2,013 
3,170 18,704 Total commercial
 2,013 
3,170 18,704 Consumer: 
Pick-a-Pay mortgage (1)
 50,971 
58,274 95,315 Liquidating home equity
 3,695 
4,647 10,309 Legacy Wells Fargo Financial indirect auto
 207 830 18,221 Legacy Wells Fargo Financial debt consolidation
 12,893 
14,519 25,299 Education Finance - government guaranteed
 10,712 
12,465 20,465 Legacy Wachovia other PCI loans (1)
 375 657 2,478 Total consumer 
 78,853 
91,392 172,087 Total non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios 
$  80,866 
94,562 190,791 (1) Net of purchase accounting adjustments related to PCI loans. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS 
Loans 
acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their 
origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all 

contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI 

loans. Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired in the 

Wachovia acquisition on December 31, 2008. PCI loans are 

recorded at fair value at the 
date of acquisition, and the 
historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not 

carried over. The carrying value of PCI loans totaled 

$26.7 billion at December 31, 2013, down from $31.0 billion and 

$58.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2008, respectively. Such 

loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the 

accretable yield and not based on consideration given to 

contractual interest payments. The accretable yield at 

December 31, 2013, was $17.4 billion, which reflects a revision 

from the $19.1 billion reported in our earnings release, filed 

January 14, 2014, on Form 8-K. Th
is revision primarily reflects a 
correction of our projected cash flow estimates 
for our Pick-a-
Pay portfolio related to the anticipated volume 
of future 
modifications and defaults on modified loans. As a result, the 

estimated weighted-average life of our projected cash flow 
estimates 
for our Pick-a-Pay portfolio declined from 
14.0 years 
to 12.7 years. 
A nonaccretable difference is established for PCI loans to 
absorb losses expected on those loans at the date of acquisition. 

Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect 

the income statement or the allowance for credit losses. 
Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, 

Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated 
into pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is 

accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest 

rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. 
Resolutions of loans may include sales to third parties, 
receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or 

foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an 

individual PCI loan from a pool based on comparing the amount 

received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any 

difference between these amounts is absorbed by the 

nonaccretable difference. This removal method assumes that the 

amount received from resolution approximates pool 

performance expectations. The accretable yield percentage is 

unaffected by the resolution and any changes in the effective 

yield for the remaining loans in the pool are addressed by our 

quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans 

that are resolved by payment in full, there is no release of the 

nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no 

difference between the amount received at resolution and the 

contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not 

removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be 

deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for 

individually are TDRs, and removed from PCI accounting, if 

there has been a concession granted in excess of the original 

nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in our 

impaired loans. 
During 2013, we recognized as income $91 million released 
from the nonaccretable difference related to commercial PCI 

loans due to payoffs and other resolutions. We also transferred 

$971 million from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable 

yield for PCI loans with improving credit-related cash flows and 
absorbed $751 million of losses in the nonaccretable difference 

from loan resolutions and write-downs. Our cash flows expected 

to be collected have been favorably affected by lower than 

expected defaults and losses as a result of observed economic 

strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and by our loan 

modification efforts. See the ﬁReal Estate 1-4 Family First and 

Junior Lien Mortgage Loansﬂ section in this Report for 

additional information. Table 18 provides an analysis of changes 

in the nonaccretable difference. 
Table 18: Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans 
Other (in millions) 
Commercial 
Pick-a-Pay 
consumer 
Total 
Balance, December 31, 2008 
$ 10,410
 26,485 4,069 40,964 Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions
 188 --188 Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)
 (1,345)
 -- (1,345) 
Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)
 (299)
 - (85)
 (384) 
Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3)
 (1,216)
 (2,383)
 (614)
 (4,213) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4) 
(6,809) 
(14,976) 
(2,718) 
(24,503) 
Balance, December 31, 2011 
929 9,126 652 10,707 Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions
 7 --7 Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)
 (81)
 -- (81) 
Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)
 (4)
 -- (4) 
Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3)
 (315)
 (648)
 (178)
 (1,141) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4) 
(114) 
(2,246) 
(164) 
(2,524) 
Balance, December 31, 2012
 422  6,232 
310  6,964 
Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions
 18
 -- 18 
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)
 (86)
 -- (86) 
Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)
 (5)
 -- (5) 
Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3)
 (74)
 (866)
 (31)
 (971) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4)
 (10)
 (662)
 (79)
 (751) 
Balance, December 31, 2013 
$ 265 
 4,704 
200  5,169 
(1) Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest i
ncome in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay 
and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due to pool accoun
ting for those loans, which assumes that the 
amount received a
pproximates the 
pool performance ex
pectations. 
(2) Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale. 
(3) Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in in
creased interest income as a prospective yield 
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans. 
(4) Write-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are absorbed by the nonaccretable difference when severe delinquency (normally
 180 days) or other indications of severe 
borrower financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the lo
an. Also includes foreign exchange adjustments 
related to underlying principal for which the nonaccretable difference was established. 
Since December 31, 2008, we have released $8.2 billion in 
nonaccretable difference, including $6.3 billion transferred from 
the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield and 

$1.9 billion released to income through loan resolutions. Also, 

we have provided $1.7 billion for losses on certain PCI loans or 

pools of PCI loans that have had credit-related decreases to cash 
flows expected to be collected. The net result is a $6.5 billion 

reduction from December 31, 2008, through December 31, 2013, 

in our initial projected losses of $41.0 billion on all PCI loans. 
At December 31, 2013, the allowance for credit losses on 
certain PCI loans was $30 million. The allowance is to absorb 

credit-related decreases in cash flows expected to be collected 

and primarily relates to individual PCI commercial loans. 

Table 19 analyzes the actual and projected loss results on PCI 

loans since acquisition through December 31, 2013. 
For additional information on PCI loans, see Note 1 
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Œ Loans) and Note 

6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
Table 19: Actual and Projected Loss Results on PCI Loans Since Acquisition of Wachovia 
(in millions) 
Commercial 
Pick-a-Pay 
Other consumer 
Total 
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1) 
$ 1,512
 --1,512 Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)
 308 -85 393 Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3)
 1,605 3,897 823 6,325 Total releases of nonaccretable difference due to better than expected losses
 3,425 3,897 908 8,230 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration (4)
 (1,641)
 - (107)
 (1,748) 
Actual and projected losses on PCI loans less than originally expected 
$ 1,784
 3,897 801 6,482 (1) Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest i
ncome in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay 
and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due to pool accoun
ting for those loans, which assumes that the 
amount received approximates the pool performance expectations. 
(2) Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale. 
(3) Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in in
creased interest income as a prospective yield 
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans. 
(4) Provision for additional losses is recorded as a charge to income when it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be colle
cted for a PCI loan or pool of loans may not 
support full realization of the carr
ying value. 
Significant Loan Portfolio Reviews
 Measuring and 
monitoring our credit risk is an ongoing process that tracks 
delinquencies, collateral values, FICO scores, economic trends 

by geographic areas, loan-level risk grading for certain portfolios 

(typically commercial) and other indications of credit risk. Our 

credit risk monitoring process is designed to enable early 

identification of developing risk and to support our 

determination of an appropriate allowance for credit losses. The 

following discussion provides additional characteristics and 

analysis of our significant portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans and 

Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report for more analysis and credit metric information. 
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS AND LEASE 
FINANCING 
For purposes of portfolio risk management, we 
aggregate commercial and industrial loans and lease financing 
according to market segmentation and standard industry 

codes. Table 20 summarizes commercial and industrial loans 

and lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual 

totals. We generally subject commercial and industrial loans and 

lease financing to individual risk assessment using our internal 

borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned 

to regulatory definitions of pass and criticized categories with 

criticized divided between special mention, substandard and 

doubtful categories. 
The commercial and industrial loans and lease financing 
portfolio, which totaled $209.2 billion or 25% of total loans at 

December 31, 2013, generally experienced credit improvement in 
2013. The net charge-off rate for this portfolio declined to 0.18% 

in 2013 from 0.46% in 2012. At December 31, 2013, 0.37% of 

this portfolio was nonaccruing compared with 0.72% at 

December 31, 2012. In addition, $15.5 billion of this portfolio 
was rated as criticized in accordance with regulatory guidance at 

December 31, 2013, down from $19.0 billion at 

December 31, 2012. 
A majority of our commercial and industrial loans and lease 
financing portfolio is secured by short-term assets, such as 

accounts receivable, inventory and securities, as well as long-

lived assets, such as equipment and other business assets. 

Generally, the collateral securing this portfolio represents a 

secondary source of repayment. See Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report for additional credit metric information. 
Table 20:  Commercial and Industrial Loans and Lease 
Financing by Industry 
December 31, 2013 
(in millions) 
Nonaccrual 
loans 
Total portfolio (1) 
% of 
total loans 
Investors 
$ 17 
19,627 2 % 
Cyclical Retailers
 25 15,112 2 Oil & Gas 
67 14,102 2 Food and beverage
 45 12,719 2 Financial Institutions 
44 12,055 1 Healthcare 
39 11,608 1 Real Estate Lessor 
16 11,242 1 Industrial Equipment 
6 10,483 1 Technology 
7 7,386 1 Transportation 
7 5,936 1 Public Administration
 16 5,832 1 Business Services
 34 5,798 1 Other 444 77,344 (2) 
9 Total 
$ 767 
209,244 25 % 
* Less than 1%. 
(1) Includes $215 million PCI loans, which are considered to be accruing due to the 
existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to 
contractual interest payments. 
(2) No other single category had loans in excess of $4.8 billion. 
Risk mitigation actions, including the restructuring of 
repayment terms, securing collateral or guarantees, and entering 
into extensions, are based on a re-underwriting of the loan and 

our assessment of the borrower™s ability to perform under the 

agreed-upon terms. Extension terms generally range from six to 

thirty-six months and may require that the borrower provide 

additional economic support in th
e form of partial repayment, or 
additional collateral or guarantees. In cases where the value of 

collateral or financial condition of the borrower is insufficient to 

repay our loan, we may rely upon the support of an outside 

repayment guarantee in providing the extension. 
Our ability to seek performance under a guarantee is directly 
related to the guarantor™s creditworthiness, capacity and 

willingness to perform, which is evaluated on an annual basis, or 

more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the 
most current financial information available and is focused on 
various key financial metrics, including net worth, leverage, and 

current and future liquidity. We consider the guarantor™s 

reputation, creditworthiness, and willingness to work with us 

based on our analysis as well as other lenders™ experience with 

the guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor™s credit strength 

is reflected in our loan risk ratings for such loans. The loan risk 

rating and accruing status are important factors in our allowance 

methodology. 
In considering the accrual status of the loan, we evaluate the 
collateral and future cash flows as well as the anticipated support 

of any repayment guarantor. In many cases the strength of the 

guarantor provides sufficient assurance that full repayment of 

the loan is expected. When full and timely collection of the loan 

becomes uncertain, including the performance of the guarantor, 

we place the loan on nonaccrual status. As appropriate, we also 

charge the loan down in accordance with our charge-off policies, 

generally to the net realizable value of the collateral securing the 

loan, if any. 
At the time of any modification of terms or extensions of 
maturity, we evaluate whether the loan should be classified as a 

TDR, and account for it accordingly. For more information on 

TDRs, see ﬁTroubled Debt Restructuringsﬂ later in this section 

and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. 
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE (CRE)  
The CRE portfolio totaled 
$123.8 billion, or 15% of total loans at December 31, 2013, and 

consisted of $107.1 billion of mortgage loans and $16.7 billion of 

construction loans. Table 21 summarizes CRE loans by state and 

property type with the related nonaccrual totals. The portfolio is 

diversified both geographically and by property type. 
The largest 
geographic concentrations of combined CRE loans are in 

California (28% of the total CRE portfolio), and in Florida and 

Texas (8% in each state). By property type, the largest 

concentrations are office buildings at 28% and apartments at 

13% of the portfolio. CRE nonaccrual loans totaled 2.2% of the 

CRE outstanding balance at December 31, 2013, compared with 

3.5% at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013, we had 

$11.8 billion of criticized CRE mortgage loans, down from 

$18.8 billion at December 31, 2012, and $2.0 billion of criticized 

CRE construction loans, down from $4.5 billion at 

December 31, 2012. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit 
Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional 

information on criticized loans. 
At December 31, 2013, the recorded investment in PCI CRE 
loans totaled $1.6 billion, down from $12.3 billion when 

acquired at December 31, 2008, reflecting principal payments, 

loan resolutions and write-downs. 
Table 21:  CRE Loans by State and Property Type 
December 31, 2013 
Real estate mortgage 
Real estate construction 
Total  
(in millions) 
Nonaccrual 
loans  
Total 
portfolio 
(1) 
Nonaccrual 
loans 
Total 
portfolio 
(1) 
Nonaccrual 
loans 
Total 
portfolio 
(1) 
% of 
total 
loans 
By state: 
California 
$ 536 
30,854 50 3,550 586 34,404 4 % Florida 
303 8,971 49 1,426 352 10,397 1 Texas 
166 8,598 23 1,673 189 10,271 1 New York
48 6,610 5 1,188 53 7,798 1 North Carolina
148 4,058 26 971 174 5,029 1 Arizona 
104 3,992 7 422 111 4,414 1 Virginia 
77 2,742 6 1,054 83 3,796 1 Washington 
30 3,244 3 423 33 3,667 * Georgia 
153 3,026 45 453 198 3,479 * Colorado 
39 2,829 7 602 46 3,431 * Other 648 32,176 195 4,985 843 37,161 (2) 
5 Total 
$ 2,252 
107,100 416 16,747 2,668 123,847 15 % By property: 
Office buildings 
$ 572 
32,294 49 2,030 621 34,324 4 % Apartments 
139 10,606 3 4,883 142 15,489 2 Industrial/warehouse 
367 12,038 -732 367 12,770 2 Retail (excluding shopping center)
278 11,627 22 890 300 12,517 2 Real estate - other 
272 10,709 5 335 277 11,044 1 Hotel/motel 
93 8,919 10 792 103 9,711 1 Shopping center 
184 8,042 9 880 193 8,922 1 Institutional 
77 2,850 -430 77 3,280 1 Land (excluding 1-4 family)
7 80 97 2,992 104 3,072 * Agriculture 
45 2,295 -29 45 2,324 * Other 218 7,640 221 2,754 439 10,394 1 Total  
$ 2,252 
107,100 416 16,747 2,668 123,847 15 % * Less than 1%. 
(1) Includes a total of $1.6 billion PCI loans, consisting of $1.1 billion of real estate mortgage and $433 million of real estate 
construction, which are considered to be accruing 
due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. 
(2) Includes 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $2.8 billion. 
  
                     
           
     Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
FOREIGN LOANS AND COUNTRY RISK EXPOSURE 
We classify loans for financial statement and certain regulatory 
purposes as foreign primarily based on whether the borrower™s 

primary address is outside of the United States. At 

December 31, 2013, foreign loans totaled $47.7 billion, 

representing approximately 6% of our total consolidated loans 

outstanding, compared with $37.8 billion, or approximately 5% 

of total consolidated loans outstanding, at December 31, 2012. 

A significant portion of the growth in foreign loans was due to 

the acquisition of CRE loans in the U.K. in third quarter 2013. 

Foreign loans were approximately 3% of our consolidated total 

assets at December 31, 2013 and at December 31, 2012. 
Our foreign country risk monitoring process incorporates 
frequent dialogue with our fi
nancial institution customers, 

counterparties and regulatory agencies, enhanced by 

centralized monitoring of macroeconomic and capital markets 

conditions in the respective countries. We establish exposure 

limits for each country through a centralized oversight process 

based on customer needs, and in consideration of relevant 

economic, political, social, legal, and transfer risks. We monitor 

exposures closely and adjust our country limits in response to 

changing conditions. 
We evaluate our individual co
untry risk exposure on an 
ultimate country of risk basis, which is normally based on the 

country of residence of the guarantor or collateral location, and 

is different from the reporting based on the borrower™s primary 

address. Our largest single foreign country exposure on an 

ultimate risk basis at December 31, 2013, was the United 

Kingdom, which totaled $21.1 billion, or approximately 1% of 

our total assets, and included $3.0 billion of sovereign claims. 

Our United Kingdom sovereign claims arise primarily from 

deposits we have placed with the Bank of England pursuant to 

regulatory requirements in support of our London branch. 
We conduct periodic stress tests of our significant country 
risk exposures, analyzing the direct and indirect impacts on the 

risk of loss from various macroeconomic and capital markets 

scenarios. We do not have significant exposure to foreign 

country risks because our foreign portfolio is relatively small. 

However, we have identified exposure to increased loss from 

U.S. borrowers associated with the potential impact of a 

regional or worldwide economic downturn on the U.S. 

economy. We mitigate these potential impacts on the risk of 

loss through our normal risk management processes which 

include active monitoring and, if necessary, the application of 

aggressive loss mitigation strategies. 
Table 22 provides information regarding our top 20 
exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) and our Eurozone 

exposure, on an ultimate risk basis. 
Table 22:  Select Country Exposures 
Lendin
g (1)
 Securities 
(2) 
Derivatives and other 
(3)
 Total 
exposure 
(in millions) 
December 31, 2013 
Sovereign 
Non-  
sovereign 
Sovereign 
Non-  
sovereign 
Sovereign 
Non-  
sovereign 
Sovereign 
Non- 
sovereign (4) 
Total 
Top 20 countr
y exposures: 
United Kingdom 
$  3,031 
 10,024 
 1  7,120 
 -911 3,032 
 18,055
 21,087 
Canada 
- 6,636 
- 4,778 
- 575- 11,989
 11,989 
China
- 5,575 
-55 3  1 3  5,631 
 5,634 
Brazil 
- 2,751 
-13 --- 2,764 
 2,764 
Germany
66  1,470 
-788-13766  2,395 
 2,461 
Netherlands
- 1,784 
- 401- 40 - 2,225 
 2,225 
Switzerland
- 1,251 
- 351-440- 2,042 
 2,042 
Bermuda 
- 1,775 
- 77 - 42 - 1,894 
 1,894 
France
-519- 1,192 
-152- 1,863 
 1,863 
Turkey
- 1,653 
--- -- 1,653 
 1,653 
Australia
-913-664-11 - 1,588 
 1,588 
South Korea
- 1,381 
- 51 12 -12  1,432 
 1,444 
India
- 1,266 
7 140--7  1,406 
 1,413 
Chile
- 1,265 
- 18 -57 - 1,340 
 1,340 
Luxembourg
- 1,065 
-105-6 - 1,176 
 1,176 
Mexico 
- 1,131 
- 38 5 1 5  1,170 
 1,175 
Ireland
34 940-1542 25 36  1,119 
 1,155 
Russia
- 754- 32 ---786 786 Spain
- 714-62 ---776 776 Taiwan- 754-1 -2 -757 757 Total top 20 country exposures 
$  3,131 
 43,621
8  16,040
22  2,400 
 3,161 
 62,061
 65,222 
Eurozone exposure: 
Eurozone countries included in Top 20 above (5) 
$ 100 
 6,492 
- 2,702 
2 360 102  9,554 
 9,656 
Austria
 103 331 -2 -2 103 335 438 Italy
 -242 -86 ---328 328 Bel
gium -115 -50 -8 -173 173 Other Eurozone countries (6)
 -55 -25 26 2 26 82 108 Total Eurozone exposure 
$ 203 
 7,235 
- 2,865 
28 372 231  10,472
 10,703 
(1) Lending exposure includes funded loans and unfunded commitments, leveraged leases, and money market placements presented on a g
ross basis prior to the deduction of 
impairment allowance and collateral received under the terms of the credit agreements. For the countries listed above, includes
 $472 million in PCI loans, predominantly to 
customers in Germany and the United Kingdom, and $2.0 billion in defeased leases secured largely by U.S. Treasury and governmen
t agency securities, or government 
guaranteed. 
(2) Represents issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity securities. 
(3) Represents counterparty exposure on foreign exchange and derivative contracts, and securities resale and lending agreements
. This exposure is presented net of 
counterparty netting adjustments and reduced by the amount of cash collateral. It includes credit default swaps (CDS) predomina
ntly used to manage our U.S. and London-
based cash credit trading businesses, which sometimes results in selling and purchasing protection on the identical reference e
ntity. Generally, we do not use market 
instruments such as CDS to hedge the credit risk of our investment or loan positions, although we do use them to manage risk in
 our trading businesses. At 
December 31, 2013, the gross notional amount of our CDS sold that reference assets in the Top 20 or Eurozone countries was $5.4
 billion, which was offset by the notional 
amount of CDS purchased of $5.4 billion. We did not have any CDS purchased or sold that reference pools of assets that contain 
sovereign debt or where the reference asset 
was solely the sovereign debt of a foreign country. 
(4) For countries presented in the table, total non-sovereign exposure comprises $30.8 billion exposure to financial institutions a
nd $32.2 billion to non-financial corporations at 
December 31, 2013. 
(5) Consists of exposure to Germany, Netherlands, France, Luxembourg, Ireland and Spain included in Top 20. 
(6) Includes non-sovereign exposure to Greece, Cyprus and Portugal in the amount of $1 million, $7 million and $39 million, respect
ively. We had no sovereign debt exposure to 
these countries at December 31, 2013. 
REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN 
Our real estate 1-4 family first and junior 
MORTGAGE LOANS 
lien mortgage loans primarily include loans we have made to 
customers and retained as part of our asset liability management 

strategy. These loans include the Pick-a-Pay portfolio acquired 

from Wachovia and the home equity portfolio, which are 

discussed later in this Report. These loans also include other 

purchased loans and loans included on our balance sheet due to 

the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance related to 

variable interest entities (VIEs).  
Our underwriting and periodic review of loans secured by 
residential real estate collateral includes appraisals or estimates 

from automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property 

values. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate the 

market value of homes. AVMs are a lower-cost alternative to 

appraisals and support valuations of large numbers of properties 

in a short period of time using market comparables and price 

trends for local market areas. The primary risk associated with 

the use of AVMs is that the value of an individual property may 

vary significantly from the average for the market area. We have 

processes to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk 

management guidelines addressing the circumstances when 
AVMs may be used. AVMs are generally used in underwriting to 

support property values on loan originations only where the loan 

amount is under $250,000. We generally require property 

visitation appraisals by a qualified independent appraiser for 

larger residential property loans. 
Some of our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien 
mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the 

loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 15% of 

total loans at December 31, 2013, compared with 18% at 

December 31, 2012. 
We believe we have manageable adjustable-rate mortgage 
(ARM) reset risk across our owned mortgage loan portfolios. We 

do not offer option ARM products, nor do we offer variable-rate 

mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly 

referred to within the financial services industry as negative 

amortizing mortgage loans. Our liquidating option ARM loans 

are included in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio which was acquired from 
Wachovia. Since our acquisition of the Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio 

at the end of 2008, we have reduced the option payment portion 

of the portfolio, from 86% to 44% at December 31, 2013. For 

more information, see the ﬁPick-a-Pay Portfolioﬂ section in this 

Report. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
We continue to modify real esta
te 1-4 family mortgage loans 
to assist homeowners and other borrowers experiencing 
financial difficulties. Loans are underwritten at the time of the 

modification in accordance with underwriting guidelines 

established for governmental and proprietary loan modification 

programs. As a participant in the U.S. Treasury™s Making Home 

Affordable (MHA) programs, we are focused on helping 

customers stay in their homes. The MHA programs create a 

standardization of modification terms including incentives paid 

to borrowers, servicers, and investors. MHA includes the Home 

Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) for first lien loans and 

the Second Lien Modification Program (2MP) for junior lien 

loans. Under both our proprietary programs and the MHA 

programs, we may provide concessions such as interest rate 

reductions, forbearance of principal, and in some cases, 

principal forgiveness. These programs generally include trial 

payment periods of three to four months, and after successful 

completion and compliance with
 terms during this period, the 
loan is permanently modified. Once the loan enters a trial period 

or permanent modification, it is accounted for as a TDR. See the 

ﬁCritical Accounting Policies Œ 
Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ 
section in this Report for discussion on how we determine the 

allowance attributable to our mo
dified residential real estate 
portfolios. 
Real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans by 
state are presented in Table 23. Our real estate 1-4 family 

mortgage loans to borrowers in California represented 

approximately 13% of total loans at December 31, 2013, located 

mostly within the larger metropolitan areas, with no single 

California metropolitan area consisting of more than 3% of total 

loans. We monitor changes in real estate values and underlying 

economic or market conditions for all geographic areas of our 

real estate 1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of our credit risk 
management process. 
We monitor the credit performance of our junior lien 
mortgage portfolio for trends and factors that influence the 

frequency and severity of loss. In 2012, we aligned our 

nonaccrual reporting with Interagency Guidance issued by bank 

regulators so that a junior lien is reported as a nonaccrual loan if 

the related first lien is 120 days past due or is in the process of 

foreclosure, regardless of delinquency status. Additionally, in 

third quarter 2012, we aligned our nonaccrual and troubled debt 

reclassification policies in accordance with guidance in the Office 

of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) update to the Bank 

Accounting Advisory Series (OCC Guidance), which requires 

consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to 

net realizable collateral value and classified as nonaccrual TDRs, 

regardless of their delinquency status. 
Table 23:  Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien 
Mortgage Loans by State 
December 31, 2013 
(in millions) 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
Total real 
estate 1-4 
family 
mortgage 
% of 
total 
loans  
PCI loans: 
California 
$ 16,228
 31 16,259 2 % 
Florida
 1,884 21 1,905 * New Jersey
 1,007 16 1,023 * Other (1)
 4,981 55 5,036 1 Total PCI loans 
$ 24,100 
123 24,223 3 % 
All other loans: 
California 
$ 71,422
 18,325 89,747 11 % 
Florida
 14,872 5,943 20,815 2 New York
 14,338 2,877 17,215 2 New Jersey 
10,122 5,107 15,229 2 Virginia
 6,850 3,532 10,382 1 Pennsylvania
 5,925 3,160 9,085 1 North Carolina
 5,978 2,848 8,826 1 Texas
 7,770 944 8,714 1 Georgia
 4,830 2,618 7,448 1 Other (2)
 61,553 20,437 81,990 10 Government insured/
  guaranteed loans (3)
 30,737 -30,737 4 Total all other loans 
$ 234,397 
65,791 300,188 36 % 
Total 
$ 258,497 
65,914 324,411 39 % 
* Less than 1%. 
(1) Consists of 45 states; no state had loans in excess of $614 million. 
(2) Consists of 41 states; no state had loans in excess of $7.1 billion. 
(3) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the Federal 

Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans 

Affairs (VA). 
Part of our credit monitoring includes tracking delinquency, 
FICO scores and collateral values (LTV/CLTV) on the entire real 
estate 1-4 family mortgage loan portfolio. These credit risk 

indicators, which exclude government insured/guaranteed loans, 

continued to improve in fourth quarter 2013 on the non-PCI 

mortgage portfolio. Loans 30 days or more delinquent at 

December 31, 2013, totaled $11.9 billion, or 4%, of total non-PCI 

mortgages, compared with $15.5 billion, or 5%, at 

December 31, 2012. Loans with FICO scores lower than 640 
totaled $31.5 billion at December 31, 2013, or 10% of total non-

PCI mortgages, compared with $37.7 billion, or 13%, at 

December 31, 2012. Mortgages with a LTV/CLTV greater than 

100% totaled $34.3 billion at Dece
mber 31, 2013, or 11% of total 
non-PCI mortgages, compared with $58.7 billion, or 20%, at 

December 31, 2012. Information regarding credit risk indicators 

can be found in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) 

to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Pick-a-Pay Portfolio 
The Pick-a-Pay portfolio was one of the 
consumer residential first mortgage portfolios we acquired from 
Wachovia and a majority of the portfolio was identified as PCI 

loans. 
The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes loans that offer payment 
options (Pick-a-Pay option payment loans), and also includes 

loans that were originated without the option payment feature, 

loans that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our 

modification efforts since the acquisition, and loans where the 

customer voluntarily converted to a fixed-rate product. The Pick-

a-Pay portfolio is included in the consumer real estate 1-4 family 
first mortgage class of loans throughout this Report. Real estate 

1-4 family junior lien mortgages and lines of credit associated 
with Pick-a-Pay loans are reported in the home equity portfolio. 
Table 24 provides balances by types of loans as of 

December 31, 2013, as a result of modification efforts, compared 
to the types of loans included in the portfolio at acquisition. 

Total adjusted unpaid principal balance of PCI Pick-a-Pay loans 
was $28.8 billion at December 31, 2013, compared with 

$61.0 billion at acquisition. Modification efforts have largely 

involved option payment PCI loans, which, based on adjusted 

unpaid principal balance, have declined to 17% of the total Pick-

a-Pay portfolio at December 31, 2013, compared with 51% at 

acquisition. 
Table 24:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio - Comparison to Acquisition Date 
December 31, 
2013 
2008 (in millions) 
Adjusted 
unpaid 
principal 
balance (1) 
% of total 
Adjusted 
unpaid 
principal 
balance (1) 
% of total 
Option payment loans 
$  24,420 
 44 % 
$ 99,937 
86 % Non-option payment adjustable-rate 
and fixed-rate loans (2)
 7,892 
14 15,763 14 Full-term loan modifications
 23,509 
42 --Total adjusted unpaid principal balance (2) 
$  55,821 
 100 % 
$ 115,700 
100 % Total carrying value 
$  50,971 
$ 95,315 
(1) Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other ind
ications of severe borrower financial stress 
exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 
(2) Includes loans refinanced under the Consumer Relief Refinance Program. 
Pick-a-Pay loans may have fixed or adjustable rates with 
payment options that include a 
minimum payment, an interest-

only payment or fully amortizing payment (both 15 and 30 year 

options). Total interest deferred 
due to negative amortization on 

Pick-a-Pay loans was $902 million at December 31, 2013, and 
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2012. Approximately 93% of the 

Pick-a-Pay customers making a minimum payment in 
December 2013 did not defer interest, compared with 90% in 

December 2012. 
Deferral of interest on a Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as 
long as the loan balance remains below a pre-defined principal 
cap, which is based on the percentage that the current loan 

balance represents to the original loan balance. The majority of 

the Pick-a-Pay portfolio has a cap of 125% of the original loan 

balance. Most of the Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a 
deferred interest balance re-amortize (the monthly payment 

amount is reset or ﬁrecastﬂ) on the earlier of the date when the 

loan balance reaches its principal cap, or generally the 10-year 
anniversary of the loan. After a recast, the customers™ new 

payment terms are reset to the amount necessary to repay the 

balance over the remainder of the original loan term. 
Due to the terms of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, there is little 
recast risk in the near term where borrowers will have a payment 

change over 7.5%. Based on assumptions of a flat rate 

environment, if all eligible customers elect the minimum 

payment option 100% of the time and no balances prepay, we 
would expect the following balances of loans to recast based on 

reaching the principal cap and also experiencing a payment 

change over the annual 7.5% reset: $40 million in 2014, 

$69 million in 2015 and $45 million in 2016. In addition, in a 

flat rate environment, we would expect the following balances of 

loans to start fully amortizing due to reaching their recast 

anniversary date and also having a payment change over the 

annual 7.5% reset: $211 million in 2014, $411 million in 2015 

and $470 million in 2016. In 2013, the amount of loans reaching 

their recast anniversary date and also having a payment change 

over the annual 7.5% reset was $36 million. 
Table 25 reflects the geographic distribution of the Pick-a-
Pay portfolio broken out between PCI loans and all other loans. 

The LTV ratio is a useful metric in predicting future real estate  

1-4 family first mortgage loan performance, including potential 

charge-offs. Because PCI loans were initially recorded at fair 

value, including write-downs for expected credit losses, the ratio 

of the carrying value to the current collateral value will be lower 

compared with the LTV based on the adjusted unpaid principal 

balance. For informational purposes, we have included both 

ratios for PCI loans in the following table. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
Table 25:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio (1) 
December 31, 2013 
PCI loans 
All other loans 
(in millions) 
Adjusted 
unpaid 
principal 
balance (2) 
Current 
LTV  
ratio (3) 
Carrying 
value (4) 
Ratio of 
carrying  
value to 
current 
value (5) 
Carrying 
value (4) 
Ratio of 
carrying 
value to 
current 
value (5) 
California 
$ 19,797 89 % $  
16,213 72 % $  
13,219 65 % Florida 
2,395 98 1,827 69 2,764 80 New Jersey 
1,029 87 974 74 1,770 74 New York 
609 84 592 73 797 73 Texas 
266 70 241 62 1,081 56 Other states 
4,704 89 4,001 74 7,492 75 Total Pick-a-Pay loans 
$ 28,800 
$ 23,848 
$ 27,123 
(1) The individual states shown in this table represent the top five states based on the total net carrying value of the Pick-a-Pay 
loans at the beginning of 2013. 
(2) Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other ind
ications of severe borrower financial stress 
exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 
(3) The current LTV ratio is calculated as the adjusted unpaid principal balance divided by the collateral value. Collateral values
 are generally determined using automated 
valuation models (AVM) and are updated quarterly. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate market values of homes based o
n processing large volumes of market 
data including market comparables and price trends for local market areas. 
(4) Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan losses, includes remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which
, for PCI loans may include the 
nonaccretable difference and the accretable yield and, for all other loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield a
t date of merger less any subsequent charge-
offs. 
(5) The ratio of carrying value to current value is calculated as the carrying value divided by the collateral value. 
To maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to 
avoid foreclosure, we have in place several loss mitigation 
strategies for our Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio. We contact 

customers who are experiencing financial difficulty and may in 

certain cases modify the terms of a loan based on a customer™s 

documented income and other circumstances. 
We also have taken steps to work with customers to refinance 
or restructure their Pick-a-Pay loans into other loan products. 

For customers at risk, we offer combinations of term extensions 

of up to 40 years (from 30 years), interest rate reductions, 

forbearance of principal, and, in geographies with substantial 

property value declines, we may offer permanent principal 

forgiveness. 
In 2013, we completed more than 11,800 proprietary and 
Home Affordability Modification Program (HAMP) Pick-a-Pay 

loan modifications. We have completed more than 123,000 

modifications since the Wachovia acquisition, resulting in 

$5.8 billion of principal forgiveness to our Pick-a-Pay customers 
as well as an additional $229 million of conditional forgiveness 

that can be earned by borrowers through performance over a 

three year period.  
Due to better than expected performance observed on the 
Pick-a-Pay PCI portfolio compared with the original acquisition 
estimates, we have reclassifi
ed $3.9 billion from the 
nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield since acquisition, 

including $866 million in 2013. Our cash flows expected to be 

collected have been favorably affected by lower expected defaults 

and losses as a result of observed and forecasted economic 

strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and our loan 

modification efforts. These factors are expected to reduce the 

frequency and severity of defaults and keep these loans 

performing for a longer period, thus increasing future principal 

and interest cash flows. The resulting increase in the accretable 

yield will be realized over the remaining life of the portfolio, 

which is estimated to have a weighted-average remaining life of 
approximately 12.7 years at December 31, 2013. The accretable 
yield percentage at December 31, 2013 was 4.98%, up from 

4.70% at the end of 2012 due to increased cash flows from 

improved economic outlook and credit trends. Fluctuations in 

the accretable yield are driven by changes in interest rate indices 

for variable rate PCI loans, prepayment assumptions, and 

expected principal and interest payments over the estimated life 

of the portfolio, which will be affected by the pace and degree of 

improvements in the U.S. economy and housing markets and 

projected 
lifetime performance resulting from loan modification 
activity. Changes in the projected timing of cash flow events, 

including loan liquidations, modifications and short sales, can 

also affect the accretable yield rate and the estimated weighted-

average life of the portfolio. 
The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes a significant portion of our 
PCI loans. For further information on the judgment involved in 

estimating expected cash flows for PCI loans,  see the ﬁCritical 

Accounting Policies Œ Purchased Credit-Impaired Loansﬂ section 
and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to 

Financial Statements in this Report. 
HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS 
Our home equity portfolios 
consist of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first 
and junior lien lines of credit secured by real estate. Our first lien 
lines of credit represent 22% of our home equity portfolio and 

are included in real estate 1-4 family first mortgages. The 

majority of our junior lien loan products are amortizing payment 

loans with fixed interest rates and repayment periods between 

five to 30 years. 
Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally 
have a draw period of 10 years (with some up to 15 or 20 years) 

with variable interest rate and payment options during the draw 

period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of outstanding principal 

balance plus accrued interest. During the draw period, the 

borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line 

from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms including 

interest-only payments for a fixed period between three to seven 
years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between 

five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a line of credit 

generally converts to an amortizing payment schedule with 

repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at time 

of conversion. Certain lines and loans have been structured with 

a balloon payment, which requires full repayment of the 

outstanding balance at the end of the term period. The 
conversion of lines or loans to fully amortizing or balloon payoff 

may result in a significant payment increase, which can affect 

some borrowers™ ability to repay the outstanding balance. 
The lines that enter their amortization period may experience 
higher delinquencies and higher loss rates than the ones in their 

draw or term period. We have considered this increased inherent 

risk in our allowance for credit loss estimate. 
In anticipation of our borrowers reaching the end of their 
contractual commitment, we have created a program to inform, 

educate and help these borrowers transition from interest-only 
to fully-amortizing payments or full repayment. We monitor the 

performance of the borrowers moving through the program in 

an effort to refine our ongoing program strategy. 
Table 26 reflects the outstanding balance of our home equity 
portfolio segregated into scheduled end of draw or end of term 

periods and products that are currently amortizing, or in balloon 

repayment status. It excludes real estate 1-4 family first lien line 

reverse mortgages, which total $2.4 billion, because they are 

predominantly insured by the FHA, and it excludes PCI loans, 

which total $156 million, because their losses were generally 

reflected in our nonaccretable difference established at the date 

of acquisition. 
Table 26:  Home Equity Portfolios Payment Schedule 
Scheduled end of draw / term 
(in millions) 
Outstanding balance 
December 31, 2013 
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and 
thereafter (1) 
Amortizing 
Home equity lines secured by real estate: 
Junior residential lines 
$ 57,379 
 3,174 
 6,107 
 7,621 
 7,685 
 4,202 
 25,472
 3,118 
First residential lines
 18,326 
983  1,361 
 1,081 
 1,051 
 1,207 
 11,852
 791 Total residential lines (2)(3)
 75,705 
 4,157 
 7,468 
 8,702 
 8,736 
 5,409 
 37,324
 3,909 
Junior loans (4)
 8,425 
10 102 136 141 15  1,466 
 6,555 
Total 
$ 84,130 
 4,167 
 7,570 
 8,838 
 8,877 
 5,424 
 38,790
 10,464 
% of portfolios
 100 % 5 9 11 11 6 46  12 (1) The annual scheduled end of draw or term ranges from $2.0 billion to $10.9 billion per year for 2019 and thereafter. The loans 
that convert in 2025 and thereafter have draw 
periods that generally extend to 15 or 20 years. 
(2) Lines in their draw period are predominantly interest-only. The unfunded credit commitments total $73.6 billion at December 31, 2013. 
(3) Includes scheduled end-of-term balloon payments totaling $890 million, $525 million, $348 million, $436 million, $601 million a
nd $1.3 billion for 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 
2018, 2019 and thereafter, respectively. Amortizing lines include $125 million of end-of-term balloon payments, which are past 
due. At December 31, 2013, $274 million, or 
7% of outstanding lines of credit that are amortizing, are 30 or more days past due compared to $1.5 billion, or 2% for lines i
n their draw period. 
(4) Junior loans within the term period predominantly represent principal and interest products that require a balloon payment upon
 the end of the loan term. Amortizing junior 
loans include $70 million of balloon loans that have reached end of term and are now past due. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
We continuously monitor the credit performance of our 
allowance for loan losses. Our allowance process for junior liens 
junior lien mortgage portfolio for trends and factors that 
ensures appropriate consideration of the relative difference in 
influence the frequency and severity of loss. We have observed 
loss experience for junior liens behind first lien mortgage loans 
that the severity of loss for junior lien mortgages is high and 
we own or service, compared with those behind first lien 
generally not affected by whether we or a third party own or 
mortgage loans owned or serviced by third parties. In addition, 
service the related first mortgage, but that the frequency of loss 
our allowance process for junior liens that are current, but are in 
has historically been lower when we own or service the first 
their revolving period, appropriately reflects the inherent loss 
mortgage. In general, we have limited information available on 
where the borrower is delinquent on the corresponding first lien 
the delinquency status of the third party owned or serviced 
mortgage loans. 
senior lien where we also hold a junior lien. To capture this 
Table 27 summarizes delinquency and loss rates for our 
inherent loss content, we use the experience of our junior lien 
junior lien mortgages and lines by the holder of the first lien. 
mortgages behind delinquent first liens that are owned or 
serviced by us adjusted for observed higher delinquency rates 

associated with junior lien mortgages behind third party first 

mortgages. We incorporate this inherent loss content into our 
Table 27:  Home Equity Portfolios Performance by Holder of 1st Lien (1) 
Outstanding balance (2)  
% of loans 
two payments 
or more past due 
Loss rate 
(annualized) 
quarter ended  
December 31,
 December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012  2013 
2012 Dec. 31, 
 2013 
Sept. 30, 2013 June 30, 
2013 Mar. 31, 2013 Dec. 31, 
2012 (3) 
Junior lien mortgages and lines behind: 
Wells Fargo owned or 
serviced first lien 
$ 32,683 
37,913 2.37 %  2.65 1.35 1.60 2.08 2.46 3.81 Third party first lien
 33,121 
37,417 2.54 2.86 1.38 1.65 2.00 2.48 3.15 Total junior lien mortgages and lines 
 65,804 
75,330 2.45 2.75 1.36 1.62 2.04 2.47 3.48 First lien lines
 18,326 
19,744 3.00 3.08 0.41 0.41 0.56 0.61 1.00 Total 
$  84,130 
95,074 2.57 2.82 1.16 1.36 1.72 2.08 2.97 (3) Reflects the impact of the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptc
y to be written down to net realizable collateral 
value, regardless of their delinquency status. The junior lien loss rates for third quarter 2012 reflect losses based on estima
tes of collateral value to implement the OCC 
guidance, which were then adjusted in the fourth quarter to reflect actual appraisals. Fourth quarter 2012 losses on the junior 
liens where Wells Fargo owns or services the 
first lien were elevated primarily due to the OCC guidance. 
(2) Includes $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, associated with the Pick-a-Pay portfoli
o. (1) Excludes both real estate 1-4 family first lien line reverse mortgages predominantly insured by the FHA and PCI loans. 
We monitor the number of borrowers paying the minimum 
amount due on a monthly basis. In December 2013, 

approximately 94% of our borrowers with a home equity 

outstanding balance paid the minimum amount due or more, 

while approximately 45% paid only the minimum amount due. 
 The home equity liquidating portfolio includes home equity 
loans generated through third party channels, including 

correspondent loans. This liquidating portfolio represents less 

than 1% of our total loans outstanding at December 31, 2013, and 

contains some of the highest risk in our home equity portfolio, 

with a loss rate of 4.80% compared with 1.43% for the core (non
-liquidating) home equity portfolio for the year ended 

December 31, 2013. 
Table 28 shows the credit attributes of the core and 
liquidating home equity portfolios 
and lists the top five states by 
outstanding balance for the core portfolio. Loans to California 
borrowers represent the largest state concentration in each of 

these portfolios. The decrease in outstanding balances since 

December 31, 2012 primarily reflects loan paydowns and charge-

offs. As of December 31, 2013, 23% of the outstanding balance of 

the core home equity portfolio was associated with loans that 
had a combined loan to value (CLTV) ratio in excess of 

100%. CLTV means the ratio of the total loan balance of first 

mortgages and junior lien mortgages (including unused line 

amounts for credit line products) to property collateral 

value. The unsecured portion of the outstanding balances of 

these loans (the outstanding amount that was in excess of the 

most recent property collateral value) totaled 9% of the core 

home equity portfolio at December 31, 2013. 
Table 28: Home Equity Portfolios (1) 
 Outstanding balance 
December 31,
% of loans 
two payments
or more past due   
 December 
31, Loss rate 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012  2013 
2012  2013 
2012 (2) 
Core portfolio (3) 
California 
$  20,198 
22,900 2.08 % 2.461.34 3.59 Florida
 8,699 
9,763 3.57 4.151.99 4.10 New Jersey
 6,734 
7,338 3.57 3.431.47 2.50 Virginia
 4,328 
4,758 1.96 2.041.00 1.83 Pennsylvania
 4,282 
4,683 2.79 2.671.07 1.73 Other 36,194 
40,985 2.37 2.591.44 2.84 Total 
 80,435 
90,427 2.53 2.77 1.43  3.03 Liquidating portfolio
 3,695 
4,647 3.49 3.82 4.80 9.03 Total core and 
liquidating portfolios 
$  84,130 
95,074 2.57 2.82 1.59 3.34 (1) Consists predominantly of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and junior lines of credit secured by real est
ate, but excludes PCI loans because their losses 
were generally reflected in PCI accounting adjustments at the date of acquisition, and excludes real estate 1-4 family first li
en open-ended line reverse mortgages because 
they do not have scheduled payments. These reverse mortgage loans are predominantly insured by the FHA. 
(2) Reflects the impact of the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptc
y to be written down to net realizable collateral 
value, re
gardless of their delin
quenc
y status. 
(3) Includes $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, associated with the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. 
CREDIT CARDS 
Our credit card portfolio totaled $26.9 billion 
at December 31, 2013, which represented 3% of our total 
outstanding loans. The net charge-off rate for our credit card 
portfolio was 3.62% for 2013, compared with 4.02% for 2012. 
AUTOMOBILE 
Our automobile portfolio, predominantly 
composed of indirect loans, totaled $50.8 billion at 

December 31, 2013. The net charge-off rate for our automobile 

portfolio was 0.63% for 2013, compared with 0.64% for 2012. 
OTHER REVOLVING CREDIT AND INSTALLMENT 
Other 
revolving credit and installment loans totaled $43.0 billion at 

December 31, 2013, and primarily included student and security-

based margin loans. Student loans totaled $22.0 billion at 

December 31, 2013, of which $10.7 billion were government 

guaranteed. The net charge-off rate for other revolving credit 

and installment loans was 1.43% for 2013, compared with 1.38% 

for 2012. Excluding government guaranteed student loans, the 
net charge-off rates were 1.88% for 2013 and 1.96% for 2012, 
respectively.  
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS (NONACCRUAL LOANS AND 
Table 29 summarizes nonperforming 
FORECLOSED ASSETS) 
assets (NPAs) for each of the last five years. We generally place 
loans on nonaccrual status when: 

 the full and timely collection of interest or principal 

becomes uncer
tain (generally based on an assessment of the 
borrower™s financial condition and the adequacy of 

collateral, if any); 
they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 

family fir
st and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest 
or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of 

collection; 
 part of the principal balance has been charged off (including 

loans disch
arged in bankruptcy); 
 for junior lien mortgages, we 
ha
ve evidence that the related 
first lien mortgage may be 120 days past due or in the 

process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien 

delinquency status; or
 performing consumer loans are discharged in bankruptcy, 

regardl
ess of their delinquency status.
Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Œ Loans) 
to Financial Statements in this 
Report describes our accounting 
policy for nonaccrual and impaired loans. 
Table 29:  Nonperforming Assets (Nonaccrual Loans and Foreclosed Assets)
 December 
31, (in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 Nonaccrual loans: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 738 1,422 2,142 3,213 4,397 Real estate mortgage
 2,252 
3,322 4,085 5,227 3,696 Real estate construction
 416 1,003 1,890 2,676 3,313 Lease financing
 29 27 53 108 171 Foreign
 40 50 47 127 146 Total commercial (1) 
 3,475 
5,824 8,217 11,351 11,723 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2) 
 9,799 
11,455 10,913 12,289 10,100 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 2,188 
2,922 1,975 2,302 2,263 Automobile
 173 245 159 244 270 Other revolving credit and installment
 33 40 40 56 62 Total consumer (3) 
 12,193 
14,662 13,087 14,891 12,695 Total nonaccrual loans (4)(5)(6)
 15,668 
20,486 21,304 26,242 24,418 As a percentage of total loans 
 1.90 %
 2.56 2.77 3.47 3.12 Foreclosed assets: 
Government insured/guaranteed (7) 
$ 2,093 
1,509 1,319 1,479 960 Non-government insured/guaranteed
 1,844 
2,514 3,342 4,530 2,199 Total foreclosed assets
 3,937 
4,023 4,661 6,009 3,159 Total nonperforming assets 
$  19,605 
24,509 25,965 32,251 27,577 As a percentage of total loans 
 2.37 %
 3.07 3.37 4.26 3.52 (1) Includes LHFS of $1 million, $16 million, $25 million, $3 million and $27 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2
009 respectively. 
(2) I
ncludes MHFS of $227 million, $336 million, $301 million, $426 million and $339 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 
2010, and 2009 respectively. 
(3) December 31, 2012, includes the impact of the implementation of the Interagency and OCC Guidance issued in 2012. 
(4) Excludes PCI loans because they continue to earn interest income from accretable yield, independent of performance in accor
dance with their contractual terms. 
(5) Real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans predominantly 
guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the 
U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program are not placed on nonaccrual status because they a
re insured or guaranteed. 
(6) See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information on impaired l
oans. 
(7) Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate resulting from government insured/guaranteed loans ar
e classified as nonperforming. Both principal 
and interest related to these foreclosed real estate assets are collectible because the loans were predominantly insured by the
 FHA or guaranteed by the VA. Increase in 
balance at December 31, 2013, reflects the impact of changes to loan modification programs, slowing foreclosures earlier in the
 year. 
Table 30 provides a summary of nonperforming assets during 2013. 
Table 30:  Nonperforming Assets During 2013 
December 31, 2013 
September 30, 2013 
June 30, 2013 
March 31, 2013 
($ in millions) 
Balance 
% of total 
loans 
Balance 
% of 
total  
loans 
Balance 
% of 
total  
loans 
Balance 
% of 
total  
loans 
Nonaccrual loans: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 738  0.37 % 
$ 809  0.42 % 
$ 1,022
 0.54 % 
$ 1,193
 0.64 % 
Real estate mortgage
 2,252 
2.10 2,496 2.36 2,708 2.59 3,098 2.92 Real estate construction
 416 2.48 517 3.15 665 4.04 870 5.23 Lease financing
 29 0.24 17 0.15 20 0.17 25 0.20 Foreign
 40 0.08 47 0.10 40 0.10 56 0.14 Total commercial
 3,475 
0.91 3,886 1.04 4,455 1.23 5,242 1.45 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family 
first mortgage
 9,799 
3.79 10,450 4.10 10,705 4.23 11,320 4.49 Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage
 2,188 
3.32 2,333 3.45 2,522 3.60 2,712 3.74 Automobile
 173 0.34 188 0.38 200 0.41 220 0.47 Other revolving credit and installment
 33 0.08 36 0.08 33 0.08 32 0.08 Total consumer 
 12,193 
2.74 13,007 2.95 13,460 3.07 14,284 3.26 Total nonaccrual 
 loans 
 15,668 
1.90 16,893 2.08 17,915 2.23 19,526 2.44 Foreclosed assets: 
Government insured/guaranteed 
 2,093 
1,781 1,026 969 
Non-government insured/guaranteed
 1,844 
2,021 2,114 2,381 Total foreclosed assets
 3,937 
3,802 3,140 3,350 Total nonperforming assets 
$ 19,605 
 2.37 % 
$ 20,695 2.55 % 
$ 21,055 
2.63 % 
$ 22,876 
2.86 % 
Change in NPAs from prior quarter 
$ (1,090)  
(360) 
(1,821) 
(1,633) 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
Table 31 provides an analysis of the changes in nonaccrual 
loans. 
Table 31:  Analysis of Changes in Nonaccrual Loans
 Quarter ended 
Dec. 31, 
 Sept. 30, 
June 30, 
Mar. 31, Year ended Dec. 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2013 2013 2013  2013 
2012 Commercial nonaccrual loans 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 3,886 
4,455 5,242 5,824 5,824 
8,217 Inflows
 520 490 557 611  2,178 
3,812 Outflows: 
Returned to accruing
 (67) 
(192)
 (128)
 (109)
 (496) 
(655) 
Foreclosures 
 (34) 
(77)
 (120)
 (91)
 (322) 
(469) 
Charge-offs 
 (191) 
(150)
 (193)
 (189)
 (723) 
(1,435) 
Payments, sales and other (1)
 (639) 
(640)
 (903)
 (804)
 (2,986) 
(3,646) 
Total outflows
 (931) 
(1,059)
 (1,344)
 (1,193)
 (4,527) 
(6,205) 
Balance, end of period
 3,475 
3,886 4,455 5,242 3,475 
5,824 Consumer nonaccrual loans 
Balance, beginning of period
 13,007 
13,460 14,284 14,662 14,662 
13,087 Inflows
 1,691 
2,015 2,071 2,340 8,117 
14,569 Outflows: 
Returned to accruing
 (953) 
(997)
 (1,156)
 (1,031)
 (4,137) 
(4,219) 
Foreclosures 
 (162) 
(167)
 (95)
 (173)
 (597) 
(745) 
Charge-offs 
 (437) 
(480)
 (651)
 (775)
 (2,343) 
(4,541) 
Payments, sales and other (1)
 (953) 
(824)
 (993)
 (739)
 (3,509) 
(3,489) 
Total outflows
 (2,505) 
(2,468)
 (2,895)
 (2,718)
 (10,586) 
(12,994) 
Balance, end of period
 12,193 
13,007 13,460 14,284 12,193 
14,662 Total nonaccrual loans 
$ 15,668 
16,893 17,915 19,526 15,66
8 20,486 (1) Other outflows include the effects of VIE deconsolidations and adjustments for loans carried at fair value. 
Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period 
represent inflows for loans that are placed on nonaccrual status 
in accordance with our policy, offset by reductions for loans 

that are paid down, charged off, 
sold, transferred to foreclosed 
properties, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual as a result 

of continued performance and an improvement in the 

borrower™s financial condition and loan repayment capabilities. 

Also, reductions can come from borrower repayments even if 

the loan remains on nonaccrual. 
While nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content, we 
believe exposure to loss is significantly mitigated by the 

following factors at December 31, 2013: 

 97% of total commercial nonaccrual loans and 99% of total 

consume
r nonaccrual loans are secured. Of the consumer 
nonaccrual loans, 98% are secured by real estate and 64% 

have a combined LTV (CLTV) ratio of 80% or less. 
losses of $938 million and $3.9 billion have already been 

recognized on
 35% of commercial nonaccrual loans and 
52% of consumer nonaccrual loans, respectively. Generally, 

when a consumer real estate loan is 120 days past due 

(except when required earlier by the Interagency or OCC 

Guidance), we transfer it to nonaccrual status. When the 

loan reaches 180 days past due, or is discharged in 

bankruptcy, it is our policy to write these loans down to net 

realizable value (fair value of collateral less estimated costs 

to sell), except for modifications in their trial period that are 

not written down as long as trial payments are made on 
time. Thereafter, we reevaluate each loan regularly and 

record additional write-downs if needed. 
 66% of commercial nonaccrual loans were current on 

interest.  the risk of loss of all nonaccrual loans has been considered 

an
d we believe is adequately covered by the allowance for 
loan losses. 
 $2.3 billion of consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy 

an
d classified as nonaccrual were 60 days or less past due, 
of which $2.1 billion were current. 
We continue to work with our customers experiencing 
financial difficulty to determine if they can qualify for a loan 
modification so that they can stay in their homes. Under both 

our proprietary modification programs and the MHA 

programs, customers may be required to provide updated 

documentation, and some programs require completion of 

payment during trial periods 
to demonstrate sustained 
performance before the loan can be removed from nonaccrual 

status. In addition, for loans 
in foreclosure, some states, 
including California, Oregon and Massachusetts, have recently 

enacted legislation or the courts have changed the foreclosure 

process in a manner that significantly increases the time to 

complete the foreclosure process; therefore loans remain in 

nonaccrual status for longer periods. In certain other states, 

including New York, New Jersey and Florida, the foreclosure 

timeline has significantly increased due to backlogs in an 

already complex process. 
If interest due on all nonaccrual loans (including loans that 
were, but are no longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been 
accrued under the original terms, approximately $764 million 

of interest would have been recorded as income on these loans, 

compared with $575 million actually recorded as interest 
income in 2013, versus $938 million and $406 million, 

respectively, in 2012. 
Table 32 provides a summary of foreclosed assets and an 
analysis of changes in foreclosed assets. 
Table 32:  Foreclosed Assets
 Quarter ended 
Dec. 31, 
Sept. 30, June 30, 
Mar. 31, Year ended Dec. 31 
(in millions)
 2013 
2013 2013 2013  2013 
2012 Government insured/guaranteed (1) 
$ 2,093 
1,781 1,026 969 2,093 
1,509 PCI loans: 
Commercial 
497 559 597 641 497 667 Consumer 
149 125 127 179 149 219 Total PCI loans 
646 684 724 820 646 886 All other loans: 
Commercial 
759 944 1,012 1,060 759 1,073 Consumer 
439 393 378 501 439 555 Total all other loans 
1,198 
1,337 1,390 1,561 1,198 
1,628 Total foreclosed assets 
$ 3,937 
3,802 3,140 3,350 3,937 
4,023 Analysis of changes in foreclosed assets 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 3,802 
3,140 3,350 4,023 4,023 
4,661 Net change in government insured/guaranteed (1)(2) 
312 755 57 (540) 
584 190 Additions to foreclosed assets (3) 
428 459 406 559 1,852 
2,819 Reductions: 
Sales 
(823)
 (545) 
(647)
 (658) 
(2,673)
 (3,359) 
Write-downs and net gains (losses) on sales 
218  (7) 
(26)
 (34) 
151  (288) 
Total reductions 
(605)
 (552) 
(673)
 (692) 
(2,522)
 (3,647) 
Balance, end of period 
$ 3,937 
3,802 3,140 3,350 3,937 
4,023 (1) Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate resulting from government insured/guaranteed loan
s are classified as nonperforming. Both principal 
and interest related to these foreclosed real estate assets are collectible because the loans were predominantly insured by the
 FHA or guaranteed by the VA. Increase in 
balances at December 31 and September 30, 2013, reflects the impact of changes to loan modification programs, slowing foreclosu
res in prior quarters. 
(2) Foreclosed government insured/guaranteed loans are temporarily transferred to and held by us as servicer, until reimbursement i
s received from FHA or VA. The net change 
in government insured/guaranteed foreclosed assets is made up of inflows from mortgages held for investment and MHFS, and outfl
ows when we are reimbursed by FHA/VA. 
Transfers from government insured/guaranteed loans to foreclosed assets amounted to $892 million, $1.3 billion, $639 million an
d $71 million for the quarter ended 
December 31, September 30, June 30 and March 31, 2013, respectively, and $2.9 billion and $3.7 billion for the year ended Decem
ber 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
These transfer amounts have been revised for the quarters and year ended prior to December 31, 2013 to conform with the current
 period presentation. 
(3) Predominantly include loans moved into foreclosure from nonaccrual status, PCI loans transitioned directly to foreclosed assets
 and repossessed automobiles. 
Foreclosed assets at December 31, 2013, included 
$2.1 billion of foreclosed real estate that is predominantly FHA 
insured or VA guaranteed and expected to have minimal or no 

loss content. The remaining balance of $1.8 billion of 

foreclosed assets has been written down to estimated net 

realizable value. Foreclosed assets at December 31, 2013 were 

stable, compared with December 31, 2012. At 

December 31, 2013, 68% of foreclosed assets of $3.9 billion 
have been in the foreclosed assets portfolio one year or less. 
Given our real estate-secured loan concentrations, current 
economic conditions, and recent changes to loan modification 

programs slowing down foreclosures in prior periods, we 

anticipate continuing to hold an elevated level of foreclosed 

assets on our balance sheet. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) 
Table 33:  Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs) 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 Commercial TDRs 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 1,032 
1,6832,026613 82 Real estate mortgage
 2,248 
2,625 2,262725 73 Real estate construction
475 801  1,008407 110 Lease financing
8 20  33
--Foreign
2 17  20 6 -Total commercial TDRs 
 3,765 
5,146 5,349 1,751 265 Consumer TDRs 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 18,925 
17,804 13,799 11,603 6,685 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 2,468 
2,390 1,986 1,626 1,566 Credit Card
 431 531 593 548 -Automobile
 189 314 260 214 -Other revolving credit and installment
 33 24 19 16 17 Trial modifications
 650 705 651 --Total consumer TDRs (1)(2)
 22,696 
21,768 17,308 14,007 8,268 Total TDRs 
$ 26,461 
26,914 22,657 15,758 8,533 TDRs on nonaccrual status 
$ 8,172 
10,149 6,811 5,185 2,289 TDRs on accrual status (1)
 18,289 
 16,765 15,846 10,5736,244 Total TDRs 
$ 26,461 
26,914 22,657 15,758 8,533 (1) TDR loans include $2.5 billion, $1.9 billion, $318 million, $429 million and $486 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 201
0 and 2009, respectively, of government 
insured/guaranteed loans that are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and are accruing. 
(2) Reflects the impact of the prospective adoption of the OCC guidance issued in 2012. 
Table 34:  TDRs Balance by Quarter During 2013 
(in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
Sept. 30, 2013 June 30, 
2013 Mar. 31, 
2013 Commercial TDRs 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 1,032 
1,153 1,238 1,493 Real estate mortgage
 2,248 
2,457 2,605 2,556 Real estate construction
 475 598 680 735 Lease financing
 8 9 11 17 Foreign
 2 2 17 17 Total commercial TDRs 
 3,765 
4,219 4,551 4,818 Consumer TDRs 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 18,925 
18,974 19,093 18,928 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 2,468 
2,399 2,408 2,431 Credit Card
 431 455 477 501 Automobile
 189 212 246 279 Other revolving credit and installment
 33 32 29 27 Trial modifications
 650 717 716 723 Total consumer TDRs
 22,696 
22,789 22,969 22,889 Total TDRs 
$ 26,461 
27,008 27,520 27,707 TDRs on nonaccrual status 
$ 8,172 
8,609 9,030 10,332TDRs on accrual status
 18,289 
18,399 18,490 17,375Total TDRs 
$ 26,461 
27,008 27,520 27,707 Table 33 and Table 34 provide information regarding the 
recorded investment of loans modified in TDRs. The allowance 
for loan losses for TDRs was $4.5 billion and $5.0 billion at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. See Note 6 (Loans 

and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report for additional information regarding TDRs. In those 
situations where principal is forgiv
en, the entire amount of such 
forgiveness is immediately charged off to the extent not done so 

prior to the modification. We sometimes delay the timing on the 

repayment of a portion of principal (principal forbearance) and 

charge off the amount of forbearance if that amount is not 

considered fully collectible. 
Our nonaccrual policies are generally the same for all loan 
types when a restructuring is involved. We re-underwrite loans 
at the time of restructuring to determine whether there is 

sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the 

borrower™s documented income, debt to income ratios, and other 

factors. Loans lacking sufficient evidence of sustained repayment 

capacity at the time of modificati
on are charged down to the fair 
value of the collateral, if applicable. For an accruing loan that 

has been modified, if the borrower has demonstrated 

performance under the previous terms and the underwriting 

process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the 

restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing 

status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in nonaccrual status 

until the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of 
performance, generally six consecutive months of payments, or 

equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to 

modification. Loans will also be placed on nonaccrual, and a 

corresponding charge-off is record
ed to the loan balance, when 
we believe that principal and interest contractually due under 

the modified agreement will not be collectible. 
Table 35 provides an analysis of the changes in TDRs. Loans 
that may be modified more than once are reported as TDR 

inflows only in the period they are first modified. Other than 

resolutions such as foreclosures, sales and transfers to held for 

sale, we may remove loans held for investment from TDR 

classification, but only if they have been refinanced or 

restructured at market terms and qualify as a new loan. 
Table 35:  Analysis of Changes in TDRs 
Quarter ended 
Year ended Dec. 31, 
(in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
Sept. 30, 2013 June 30, 
2013 Mar. 31, 2013 2013 
2012 Commercial TDRs 
Balance, beginning of period
 $ 4,219 
4,551 4,818 5,146 5,146 
5,349 Inflows
 292 534 468 500  1,794 
2,559 Outflows 
Charge-offs 
 (44)
 (24)
 (24)
 (40)
 (132) 
(381) 
Foreclosure 
 (16)
 (16)
 (26)
 (30)
 (88) 
(60) 
Payments, sales and other (1)
 (686)
 (826)
 (685)
 (758)
 (2,955) 
(2,321) 
Balance, end of period
 3,765 
4,219 4,551 4,818 3,765 
5,146 Consumer TDRs 
Balance, beginning of period
 22,789 
22,969 22,889 21,768 21,768 
17,308 Inflows  
 1,248 
1,282 1,352 2,076 5,958 
8,050 Outflows 
Charge-offs (2)
 (155)
 (183)
 (241)
 (280)
 (859) 
(1,400) 
Foreclosure  
 (417)
 (519)
 (240)
 (114)
 (1,290) 
(426) 
Payments, sales and other (1)
 (701)
 (761)
 (785)
 (579)
 (2,826) 
(1,818) 
Net change in trial modifications (3)
 (68)
 1 (6)
 18
 (55) 
54 Balance, end of period
 22,696 
22,789 22,969 22,889 22,696 
21,768 Total TDRs 
$ 26,461 
27,008 27,520 27,707 26,461 
26,914 (1) Other outflows include normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments and loans transferred to held-for-sale. It also 
includes $29 million, $40 million and 
$15 million of loans refinanced or restructured as new loans and removed from TDR classification for the quarters ended Septemb
er 30, June 30, and March 31, 2013, 
respectively. No loans were removed from TDR classification in 2012 as a result of being refinanced or restructured as new loan
s. (2) Year ended December 31, 2012 charge-offs reflect the impact of loans discharged in bankruptcy being reported as TDRs in acc
ordance with the OCC guidance issued in 
2012. (3) Net change in trial modifications includes: inflows of new TDRs entering the trial payment period, net of outflows for modifica
tions that either (i) successfully perform and 
enter into a permanent modification, or (ii) did not successfully perform according to the terms of the trial period plan and a
re subsequently charged-off, foreclosed upon or 
otherwise resolved. Our experience is that most of the mortgages that enter a trial payment period program are successful in co
mpleting the program requirements. 
LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING 
Loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal are 
still accruing if they are (1) well-secured and in the process of 

collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or 

consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being 

classified as nonaccrual until later delinquency, usually 120 days 

past due. PCI loans are not included in past due and still 

accruing loans even though they are 90 days or more 

contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be 

accruing because they continue to earn interest from accretable 

yield, independent of performance in accordance with their 

contractual terms. Excluding insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90 days or more 
past due and still accruing at December 31, 2013, were down 
$390 million, or 27%, from December 31, 2012, due to payoffs, 

modifications and other loss mitigation activities, decline in non-

strategic and liquidating portfolios, and credit stabilization. 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing whose 
repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or 

guaranteed by the VA for mortgages and the U.S. Department of 

Education for student loans under the Federal Family Education 

Loan Program (FFELP) were $22.2 billion at December 31, 2013, 

up from $21.8 billion at December 31, 2012. 
Table 36 reflects non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and 
still accruing by class for loans not government 

insured/guaranteed. For additional information on 

delinquencies by loan class, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for 

Credit Losses) to Financial St
atements in this Report. 
Table 36: Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
 December 
31, (in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
Total (excluding PCI (1)): 
$ 23,219 
23,245 22,569 18,488 22,188 Less: FHA insured/guaranteed by the VA (2)(3)
 21,274 
20,745 19,240 14,733 15,336 Less: Student loans guaranteed under the FFELP (4)
 900 1,065 1,281 1,106 994 Total, not government insured/guaranteed 
$ 1,045 
1,435 2,048 2,649 5,858 By segment and class, not government insured/guaranteed: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 11 47 153 308 590 Real estate mortgage
 35 228 256 104 1,014 Real estate construction
 97 27 89 193 909 Foreign
 -1 6 22 73 Total commercial
 143 303 504 627 2,586 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (3)
 354 564 781 941 1,623 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage (3) 
86 133 279 366 515 Credit card
 321 310 346 516 795 Automobile
 55 40 51 79 92 Other revolving credit and installment
 86 85 87 120 247 Total consumer 
902 1,132 1,544 2,022 3,272 Total, not government insured/guaranteed 
$ 1,045 
1,435 2,048 2,649 5,858 (1) PCI loans totaled $4.5 billion, $6.0 billion, $8.7 billion, $11.6 billion and $16.1 billion at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2
010 and 2009, res
pectivel
y. (2) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
(3) Includes MHFS 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 
(4) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under 
the FFELP. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
NET CHARGE-OFFS 
Table 37:  Net Charge-offs 
Year ended 
Quarter ended 
December 31, 
December 31, 
September 30, 
June 30, 
March 31, 
($ in millions) 
Net loan 
charge- 
offs 
% of avg. loans 
Net loan 
charge- 
offs 
% of avg. loans 
(1) 
Net loan 
charge- 
offs
% of avg.  loans 
(1) 
Net loan 
charge- 
offs
% of avg.  loans 
(1) 
Net loan 
charge- 
offs
% of avg.  loans 
(1) 
2013 
Commercial: 
Commercial and 
industrial 
$ 335 
 0.18 % 
$ 107 
 0.22 % 
$ 58 
 0.12 % 
$ 77 
 0.17 % 
$ 93 
 0.20 % Real estate mortgage
 (37)
 (0.03)
 (41)
 (0.15)
 (20)
 (0.08)
 (5)
 (0.02)
 29
 0.11 
Real estate construction
 (109)
 (0.66)
 (13)
 (0.32)
 (17)
 (0.41)
 (45)
 (1.10)
 (34)
 (0.83) 
Lease financing
 17
 0.15
 ---- 18
 0.57
 (1)
 (0.02) 
Foreign ---- (2)
 (0.02)
 (1)
 (0.01)
 3 0.03 
Total commercial
 206 0.06 53 0.06 19 0.02 44 0.05 90 0.10 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family 
first mortgage 
 1,194 
0.47 195 0.30 242 0.38 328 0.52 429 0.69 Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage
 1,309 
1.86 226 1.34 275 1.58 359 2.02 449 2.46 Credit card
 896 3.62 220 3.38 207 3.28 234 3.90 235 3.96 Automobile
 304 0.63 108 0.85 78 0.63 42 0.35 76 0.66 Other revolving credit 
and installment
 600 1.43 161 1.50 154 1.46 145 1.38 140 1.37 Total consumer
 4,303 
0.98 910 0.82 956 0.86  1,108 
1.01  1,329 
1.23 Total 
$  4,509 
 0.56 % 
$ 963 
 0.47 % 
$ 975 
 0.48 % 
$  1,152 
 0.58 % 
$  1,419 
 0.72 % 2012 Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 845 
0.49 % 
$  209 
0.46 % 
$  131 
0.29 % 
$  249 
0.58 % 
$  256 
0.62 % Real estate mortgage 
219 0.21 38 0.14 54 0.21 81 0.31 46 0.17 Real estate construction 
67 0.37 (18
) (0.43) 
1 0.03 17 0.40 67 1.43 Lease financing 
5 0.04 2 0.04 1 0.03 --2 0.06 Foreign 
79 0.20 24 0.25 30 0.29 11 0.11 14 0.14 Total commercial
 1,215 0.35 255 0.29 217 0.24 358 0.42 385 0.45 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family 
first mortgage 
2,856 1.22 649 1.05 673 1.15 743 1.30 791 1.39 Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage 
3,178 3.93 690 3.57 1,036 5.17 689 3.38 763 3.62 Credit card 
916 4.02 222 3.71 212 3.67 240 4.37 242 4.40 Automobile 
289 0.64 112 0.97 75 0.66 28 0.25 74 0.68 Other revolving credit 
and installment 
580 1.38 153 1.46 145 1.38 142 1.35 140 1.32 Total consumer (2)
 7,819 1.84 1,826 1.68 2,141 2.01 1,842 1.76 2,010 1.91 Total 
$ 9,034 
1.17 % 
$  2,081 
1.05 % 
$  2,358 
1.21 % 
$  2,200 
1.15 % 
$  2,395 
1.25 % (1) Quarterly net charge-offs (recoveries) as a percentage of average respective loans are annualized. 
(2) The year ended December 31, 2012, reflects the impact of the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
Table 37 presents net charge-offs for the four quarters and 
full year of 2013 and 2012. Net charge-offs in 2013 were 
$4.5 billion (0.56% of average total loans outstanding) 

compared with $9.0 billion (1.17%) in 2012. We continued to 

have strong improvement in our commercial and residential real 

estate secured portfolios. Our commercial real estate portfolios 

were in a net recovery position every quarter in 2013. Our 

consumer real estate portfolios continued to benefit from the 

improvement in the housing market with losses down 

$3.5 billion, or 59%, from 2012. 
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 
The allowance for credit 
losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the 

allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management™s 

estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio and 

unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date, 

excluding loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in 

the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment (including 

charge-offs and recoveries by loan class) is in Note 6 (Loans and 

Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
We apply a disciplined process and methodology to establish 
our allowance for credit losses each quarter. This process takes 

into consideration many factors, including historical and 

forecasted loss trends, loan-level credit quality ratings and loan 

grade-specific loss factors. The process involves subjective and 

complex judgments. In addition, we review a variety of credit 

metrics and trends. These credit metrics and trends, however, do 

not solely determine the amount of the allowance as we use 

several analytical tools. For additional information on our 

allowance for credit losses, see the ﬁCritical Accounting Policies 

Œ Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ section and Note 1 (Summary of 

Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 (Loans and 

Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
Table 38 presents the allocation of the allowance for credit 
losses by loan segment and class for the last five years. 
Table 38:  Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) 
Dec. 31, 2013 
Dec. 31, 2012 
Dec. 31, 2011 
Dec. 31, 2010 
Dec. 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
ACL (1) 
Loans 
as % 
of total
loans 
ACL Loans 
as % 
 of total 
loans 
ACL Loans 
as % 
of total 
loans 
ACL 
Loans 
as % 
of total 
loans 
ACL 
Loans 
as % 
of total 
loans 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 2,775 
 24 % 
$ 2,543 23 % 
$  2,649 
22 % 
$  3,299 
20 % 
$  4,014 
20 % 
Real estate mortgage
 2,102 
13 2,283 13 2,550 14 3,072 13 2,398 12 Real estate construction
 770 2 552 2 893 2 1,387 4 1,242 5 Lease financing
 127 1 85 2 82 2 173 2 181 2 Foreign
 329 6 251 5 184 5 238 4 306 4 Total commercial
 6,103 
46 5,714 45 6,358 45 8,169 43 8,141 43 Consumer:  
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 4,087 
32 6,100 31 6,934 30 7,603 30 6,449 29 Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage
 2,534 
8 3,462 10 3,897 11 4,557 13 5,430 13 Credit card 
 1,224 
3 1,234 3 1,294 3 1,945 3 2,745 3 Automobile
 475 6 417 6 555 6 771 6 1,381 6 Other revolving credit and installment
 548 5 550 5 630 5 418 5 885 6 Total consumer 
 8,868 
54 11,763 55 13,310 55 15,294 57 16,890 57 Total 
$ 14,971 
 100 % 
$ 17,477  100 % 
$  19,668 100 % $ 23,463  100 % $ 25,031  100 % 
Dec. 31, 2013 
Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011 
Dec. 31, 2010 Dec. 31, 2009 
Com
ponents:  
Allowance for loan losses 
$ 14,502 
17,060 19,372 23,022 24,516 Allowance for unfunded 
credit commitments
 469 417 296 441 515 Allowance for credit losses 
$ 14,971 
17,477 19,668 23,463 25,031 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage 
of total loans
 1.76 % 
2.13 2.52 3.04 3.13 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage 
of total net charge-offs
 322 189 171 130 135 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage 
of total loans
 1.81 2.19 2.56 3.10 3.20 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage 
of total nonaccrual loans
 96 85 92 89 103 (1) Reflects refinement in determination of allowance for the credit losses inherent in the respective loan classes. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
In addition to the allowance for credit losses, there was 
$5.2 billion at December 31, 2013, and $7.0 billion at 
December 31, 2012, of nonaccretable difference to absorb losses 
for PCI loans. The allowance for credit losses is lower than 
otherwise would have been required without PCI loan 

accounting. As a result of PCI loans, certain ratios of the 

Company may not be directly comparable with credit-related 

metrics for other financial institutions. For additional 

information on PCI loans, see the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit 

Risk Management Œ Purchased Credit-Impaired Loansﬂ section, 

Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 

(Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements 

in this Report. 
The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual 
loans may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to 

such factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, borrower 

credit strength and the value and marketability of collateral. 

Over one-half of nonaccrual loans were home mortgages at 

December 31, 2013. 
The allowance for credit losses again declined in 2013, which 
reflected continued improvement in consumer loss severity, 

delinquency trends and improved portfolio performance, 

particularly in residential real estate and primarily associated 

with continued improvement in the housing market. The total 

provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion in 2013, $7.2 billion 

in 2012 and $7.9 billion in 2011. 
The 2013 provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion, 
$2.2 billion less than net charge-offs, due to strong underlying 

credit, and home prices and market fundamentals improving 

faster and in more markets than forecasted. 
The 2012 provision was $7.2 billion, $1.8 billion less than net 
charge-offs, and the 2011 provision was $7.9 billion, $3.4 billion 

less than net charge-offs. In each of 2012 and 2011 the provision 
was influenced by continually improving credit performance. 
We believe the allowance for credit losses of $15.0 billion at 
December 31, 2013, was appropriate to cover credit losses 
inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit 

commitments, at that date. The allowance for credit losses is 

subject to change and reflects existing factors as of the date of 

determination, including economic or market conditions and 

ongoing internal and external examination processes. Due to the 

sensitivity of the allowance for credit losses to changes in the 

economic and business environment, it is possible that we will 

incur incremental credit losses not anticipated as of the balance 

sheet date. Given current favorable conditions, we continue to 

expect future allowance releases, absent a significant 

deterioration in the economy. Our process for determining the 

allowance for credit losses is discussed in the ﬁCritical 

Accounting Policies Œ Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ section and 

Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. 
LIABILITY FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES  
We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) government-sponsored entities (GSEs) Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National Mortgage 

Association (FNMA) who include the mortgage loans in GSE-

guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs that issue private 

label MBS, and (3) other financ
ial institutions that purchase 
mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In 

addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage 
loans that are then used to back securities guaranteed by the 

Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). We may 

be required to repurchase these mortgage loans, indemnify the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 

on loans (collectively, repurchase) in the event of a breach of 

contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 

within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice 

of the breach. 
We have established a mortgage repurchase liability, initially 
at fair value, related to various representations and warranties 

that reflect management™s estimate of losses for loans for which 

we could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we 

currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. 

Our mortgage repurchase liability estimation process also 

incorporates a forecast of repurchase demands associated with 

mortgage insurance rescission activity. 
The overall level of unresolved repurchase demands and 
mortgage insurance rescissions outstanding at 

December 31, 2013, was down from a year ago both in number of 
outstanding loans and in total dollar balances as we continued to 

work through the new demands and mortgage insurance 

rescissions and as we announced settlements with both FHLMC 

and FNMA in 2013, that resolved substantially all repurchase 

liabilities associated with loans sold to FHLMC prior to 

January 1, 2009, and loans sold to FNMA that were originated 

prior to January 1, 2009. Table 39 provides the number of 

unresolved repurchase demands and mortgage insurance 

rescissions. 
Customary with industry practice, we have the right of 
recourse against correspondent lenders from whom we have 

purchased loans with respect to representations and warranties. 

Of total repurchase demands and mortgage insurance 

rescissions outstanding as of December 31, 2013, presented in 

Table 39, approximately 10% relate to loans purchased from 

correspondent lenders. Due primarily to the financial difficulties 

of some correspondent lenders, we have been recovering on 

average approximately 45% of losses from these lenders. 

Historical recovery rates as well as projected lender performance 

are incorporated in the establishment of our mortgage 

repurchase liability. 
We do not typically receive repurchase requests from GNMA, 
FHA and the Department of Housing and Urban Development 

(HUD) or VA. As an originator of an FHA-insured or VA-

guaranteed loan, we are responsible for obtaining the insurance 

with FHA or the guarantee with the VA. To the extent we are not 

able to obtain the insurance or the guarantee we must request 

permission to repurchase the loan from the GNMA pool. Such 

repurchases from GNMA pools typically represent a self
-initiated process upon discovery of the uninsurable loan (usually 
within 180 days from funding of the loan). Alternatively, in lieu 

of repurchasing loans from GNMA pools, we may be asked by 

FHA/HUD or the VA to indemnify them (as applicable) for 

defects found in the Post Endorsement Technical Review 

process or audits performed by FHA/HUD or the VA. The Post 

Endorsement Technical Review is a process whereby HUD 
performs underwriting audits of closed/insured FHA loans for 

potential deficiencies. Our liability for mortgage loan repurchase 

losses incorporates probable losses associated with such 

indemnification. 
Table 39: Unresolved Repurchase Demands and Mortgage Insurance Rescissions 
Government 
sponsored entities (1) 
Private 
Mortgage insurance 
rescissions with no demand (2) 
Total 
($ in millions) 
Number of 
loans  
Original loan 
balance (3) 
Number of
loans  
 Original loan 
balance (3) 
Number of 
loans  
Original loan 
balance (3) 
Number of
loans  
 Original loan 
balance (3) 
2013 
December 31,
 674 $ 124 
 2,260 
$ 497 
394 $ 87  3,328 
$ 708 
September 30,
 4,422 
958  1,240 
264 385 87  6,047 
 1,309 
June 30,
 6,313 
 1,413 
 1,206 
258 561 127  8,080 
 1,798 
March 31,
 5,910 
 1,371 
 1,278 
278 652 145  7,840 
 1,794 
2012 
December 31,
 6,621 1,503 1,306 281 753 160 8,680 1,944 September 30,
 6,525 1,489 1,513 331 817 183 8,855 2,003 June 30,
 5,687 1,265 913 213 840 188 7,440 1,666 March 31,
 6,333 1,398 857 241 970 217 8,160 1,856 (1) Includes unresolved repurchase demands of 42 and $6 million, 1,247 and $225 million, 942 and $190 million, 674 and $147 million
, 661 and $132 million, 534 and 
$111 million, 526 and $103 million and 694 and $131 million at December 31, September 30, June 30 and March 31, 2013, and Decem
ber 31, September 30, June 30 and 
March 31, 2012, respectively, received from investors on mortgage servicing rights acquired from other originators. We generall
y have the right of recourse against the seller 
and may be able to recover losses related to such repurchase demands subject to counterparty risk associated with the seller. 
(2) As part of our representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we typically represent to GSEs and private investors
 that certain loans have mortgage insurance to 
the extent there are loans that have loan to value ratios in excess of 80% that require mortgage insurance. To the extent the m
ortgage insurance is rescinded by the 
mortgage insurer due to a claim of breach of a contractual representation or warranty, the lack of insurance may result in a re
purchase demand from an investor. Similar to 
repurchase demands, we evaluate mortgage insurance rescission notices for validity and appeal for reinstatement if the rescissi
on was not based on a contractual breach. 
When investor demands are received due to lack of mortgage insurance, they are reported as unresolved repurchase demands based 
on the applicable investor category for 
the loan (GSE or private). Over the last year, approximately 7% of our repurchase demands from GSEs had mortgage insurance resc
ission as one of the reasons for the 
repurchase demand. Of all the mortgage insurance rescission noti
ces received in 2012, approximately 78% have resulted in repurc
hase demands through December 2013. 
Not all mortgage insurance rescissions received in 2012 have been completed through the appeals process with the mortgage insur
er and, upon successful appeal, we work 
with the investor to rescind the re
purchase demand. 
(3) While the original loan balances related to these demands are presented above, the establishment of the repurchase liability is
 based on a combination of factors, such as 
our appeals success rates, reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected loss severity, which 
is driven by the difference between the 
current loan balance and the estimated collateral value less costs to sell the property. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
We believe we have a high quality residential mortgage loan 
servicing portfolio. Of the $1.8 trillion in the residential 
mortgage loan servicing portfolio at December 31, 2013, 94% 

was current, less than 2% was subprime at origination, and less 

than 1% was related to home equity loan securitizations. Our 

combined delinquency and foreclosure rate on this portfolio was 

6.40% at December 31, 2013, compared with 7.04% at 

December 31, 2012. Three percent of this portfolio is private 

label securitizations for which we originated the loans and 

therefore have some repurchase risk. We have observed an 

increase in outstanding demands, compared with 

December 31, 2012, associated with our pre-2009 private label 
securitizations due to an increase in new demands received in 

fourth quarter 2013, most of which were anticipated and were 

covered through mortgage loan repurchase accruals established 

in prior periods. Investors continue to review defaulted loans for 

potential breaches of our loan sale representations and 

warranties, and we continue to believe the risk of repurchase in 

our private label securitizations is substantially reduced, relative 

to third-party issued private label securitizations, because 
approximately one-half of this portfolio of private label 

securitizations does not contain representations and warranties 

regarding borrower or other third party misrepresentations 

related to the mortgage loan, general compliance with 

underwriting guidelines, or property valuation, which are 

commonly asserted bases for repurchase. For the 3% private 

label securitization segment of our residential mortgage loan 

servicing portfolio (weighted-average age of 98 months), 57% are 

loans from 2005 vintages or earlier; 76% were prime at 

origination; and approximately 60% are jumbo loans. The 

weighted-average LTV as of December 31, 2013 for this private 
securitization segment was 67%. We believe the highest risk 

segment of these private label securitizations is the subprime 

loans originated in 2006 and 2007. These subprime loans have 

seller representations and warranties and currently have LTVs 

close to or exceeding 100%, and represent 10% of the private 

label securitization portion of the residential mortgage servicing 

portfolio. We had $67 million of repurchases related to private 

label securitizations in 2013 compared with $180 million in 

2012. Of the servicing portfolio, 3% is non-agency acquired 
servicing and 1% is private whole loan sales. We did not 

underwrite and securitize the non-agency acquired servicing and 

therefore we have no obligation on that portion of our servicing 

portfolio to the investor for any repurchase demands arising 

from origination practices. For 
the private whole loan segment, 
while we do have repurchase risk on these loans, less than 2% 

were subprime at origination and loans that were sold and 

subsequently securitized are included in the private label 

securitization segment discussed above. 
Table 40 summarizes the changes in our mortgage 
repurchase liability. We incurred net losses on repurchased 

loans and investor reimbursements totalling $481 million on 

mortgage loans with original balances of $1.4 billion in 2013, 

excluding the $746 million and the $508 million cash payments 

for the FHLMC and FNMA settlement agreements, respectively, 

compared with net losses of $1.1 billion on mortgage loans with 

original balances of $2.5 billion for 2012. Both the FHLMC and 

FNMA settlement agreements executed in the third and fourth 

quarters of 2013, respectively, were covered through mortgage 

loan repurchase accruals established in prior periods. 
Table 40:  Changes in Mortgage Repurchase Liability 
Quarter ended 
 Year ended Dec. 31, 
(in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
Sept. 30, 
 2013 
June 30, 
 2013 
Mar. 31, 
 2013 
 2013 
2012 2011 Balance, beginning of period 
$ 1,421 
 2,222 
 2,317 
 2,206 
 2,206 
1,326 1,289 Provision for repurchase losses: 
Loan sales 
16 28 40 59 143 275 101 Change in estimate (1)
 10 -25 250 285 1,665 1,184 Total additions 
26 28 65 309 428 1,940 1,285 Losses (2)
 (548)
 (829)
 (160)
 (198)
 (1,735)
 (1,060)
 (1,248) 
Balance, end of period 
$ 899  1,421 
 2,222 
 2,317 
899 2,206 1,326 (1) 
Results from chan
ges in investor demand and mort
gag
e insurer 
practices, credit deterioration and chan
ges in the financial stabilit
y of corres
pondent lenders. 
(2) Quarter and year ended September 30 and December 31, 2013, respectively, reflect $746 million as a result of the agreement with
 FHLMC that resolves substantially all 
repurchase liabilities related to loans sold to FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009. Quarter and year ended December 31, 2013, refle
ct $508 million as a result of the agreement 
with FNMA that resolves substantially all repurchase liabilities related to loans sold to FNMA that were originated prior to Ja
nuary 1, 2009. 
Our liability for mortgage repurchases, included in ﬁAccrued 
expenses and other liabilitiesﬂ in our consolidated balance sheet, 
was $899 million at December 31, 2013 and $2.2 billion at 

December 31, 2012. In 2013, we provided $428 million, which 

reduced net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, 

compared with a provision of $1.9 billion for 2012 and 

$1.3 billion for 2011. Our provision in 2013 reflected an increase 

in projected repurchase losses for the GSE pre-2009 vintages to 

incorporate the impact of trends 
in file requests and repurchase 
demand activity observed in the first quarter (comprising 

approximately 58% of the 2013 provision), an increase for 

indemnifications and specific private investor demands 

(approximately 8%) and new loan sales (approximately 34%). 

Our provision in 2012 reflected an increase in projections of 

future GSE repurchase demands, net of appeals, for the pre
-
2009 vintages to incorporate the impact of trends in file requests 

and repurchase demand activity (comprising approximately 58% 

of the 2012 provision), an increase in probable loss estimates for 

mortgage insurance rescissions (approximately 10%), new loan 

sales (approximately 14%), an increase in probable loss 

estimates for non-agency risk (approximately 9%), and various 

other observed trends affecting our repurchase liability including 

higher than anticipated loss severity (approximately 9%). The 

increase in projected future GSE repurchase demands in 2012 

was predominantly a result of an increase in the expected file 

reviews by the GSEs as well as an increase in observed demand 

rates on these file reviews based on our experience with them at 

that time. The mortgage repurchase liability of $899 million at 
December 31, 2013, represents our best estimate of the probable 

loss that we expect to incur for various representations and 

warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage 

loans. The mortgage repurchase liability estimation process 

requires management to make difficult, subjective and complex 

judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, 

including demand expectations, economic factors, and the 

specific characteristics of the loans subject to repurchase. Our 

evaluation considers all vintages and the collective actions of the 

GSEs and their regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency 

(FHFA), mortgage insurers and our correspondent lenders. We 

maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the FHFA, and other 

significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand 

practices and issues as part 
of our process to update our 
repurchase liability estimate as new information becomes 

available. 
Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates 
underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of 

losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability 

that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of 

possible loss for representations and warranties does not 

represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available 

information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions 

that are subject to change. The high end of this range of 

reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was 

$896 million at December 31, 2013, and was determined based 

upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to assume 

significant changes in investor repurchase demand practices) 

utilized in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we 
believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse 

assumptions. For additional information on our repurchase 

liability, see the ﬁCritical Accounting Policies Œ Liability for 

Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ section and Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
Table 41:  Mortgage Repurchase Liability - Sensitivity 
Assumptions 
(in millions) 
Mortgage 
repurchase 
liability 
Balance at December 31, 2013 
$ 899 
Loss on repurchases (1) 
28.3 
%  Increase in liability from: 
10% higher losses 
$ 80 
25% higher losses 
200 Repurchase rate assumption (2)
 0.2 
%  Increase in liability from: 
10% higher repurchase rates 
$ 65 
25% higher repurchase rates
 162 (1) Represents total estimated average loss rate on repurchased loans, net of 
recovery from third party originators, based on historical experience and current 

economic conditions. The average loss rate includes the impact of repurchased 

loans for which no loss is ex
pected to be realized. 
(2) Represents the combination of the estimated investor audit/file review rate, the 

investor demand rate on those audited loans, and the unsuccessful appeal rate on 

those demands. As such, the repurchase rate can be significantly impacted by 

changes in investor behavior if they decide to review/audit more loans or demand 
more repurchases on the loans they audit. These behavior changes drive a 
significant component of our estimated high end of the range of reasonably 

possible losses in excess of our recorded repurchase liability, which includes 

adverse assum
ptions in excess of the sensitivit
y ran
ges presented in this table. 
To the extent that economic conditions and the housing 
market do not recover or future investor repurchase demands 
and appeals success rates differ from past experience, we could 

continue to have increased demands and increased loss severity 

on repurchases, causing future additions to the repurchase 

liability. However, some of the underwriting standards that were 

permitted by the GSEs for conforming loans in the 2006 through 

2008 vintages, which significantly contributed to recent levels of 

repurchase demands, were tightened 
starting in mid to late 2008 
and as of December 31, 2013, we have resolved substantially all 

of our repurchase exposures on the pre-2009 vintages with 
FNMA and FHLMC. Given the ti
ghtening of underwriting 
standards in late 2008, we do not expect a similar rate of 

repurchase requests from the 2009 and prospective vintages, 

absent deterioration in economic conditions or changes in 

investor behavior. 
RISKS RELATING TO SERVICING ACTIVITIES 
In addition to servicing loans in our portfolio, we act as servicer and/or master 

servicer of residential mortgage loans included in GSE-

guaranteed mortgage securitizations, GNMA-guaranteed 

mortgage securitizations of FHA-insured/VA-guaranteed 
mortgages and private label mortgage securitizations, as well as 

for unsecuritized loans owned by
 institutional investors. The 
following discussion summarizes the primary duties and 

requirements of servicing and related industry developments. 
Risk Management Œ Credit Risk Management 
(continued) 
General Servicing Duties and Requirements 
The loans we service were originated by us or by other mortgage 

loan originators. As servicer, our primary duties are typically to 

(1) collect payments due from borrowers, (2) advance certain 

delinquent payments of principa
l and interest, (3) maintain and 
administer any hazard, title or primary mortgage insurance 

policies relating to the mortgage loans, (4) maintain any 

required escrow accounts for payment of taxes and insurance 

and administer escrow payments
, (5) foreclose on defaulted 
mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the documents 

governing a securitization, consider
 alternatives to foreclosure, 
such as loan modifications or short sales, and (6) for loans sold 

into private label securitizations, manage the foreclosed property 

through liquidation. As master servicer, our primary duties are 

typically to (1) supervise, monitor and oversee the servicing of 

the mortgage loans by the servicer, (2) consult with each servicer 

and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to fulfill its 

servicing obligations, (3) prepare monthly distribution 

statements to security holders and, if required by the 

securitization documents, certain 
periodic reports required to be 
filed with the SEC, (4) if required by the securitization 

documents, calculate distributions and loss allocations on the 

mortgage-backed securities, (5
) prepare tax and information 
returns of the securitization trust, and (6) advance amounts 

required by non-affiliated servicers who fail to perform their 

advancing obligations. 
Each agreement under which we act as servicer or master 
servicer generally specifies a standard of responsibility for 

actions we take in such capacity and provides protection against 

expenses and liabilities we incur when acting in compliance with 

the specified standard. For example, most private label 

securitization agreements under which we act as servicer or 

master servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master 

servicer are entitled to indemnification by the securitization 

trust for taking action or refraining from taking action in good 

faith or errors in judgment. However, we are not indemnified, 

but rather are required to indemnify the securitization trustee, 

against any failure by us, as servicer or master servicer, to 

perform our servicing obligations or against any of our acts or 

omissions that involve wilful misfeasance, bad faith or gross 

negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of, our 

duties. In addition, if we commit a material breach of our 

obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to 

termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period 

following notice, which can generally be given by the 

securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security 

holders. Whole loan sale contracts under which we act as 

servicer generally include similar provisions with respect to our 

actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in GSE-

guaranteed securitizations, and the possible remedies for 

violations of such standards, vary, and those standards and 

remedies are determined by servicing guides maintained by the 

GSEs, contracts between the GSEs and individual servicers and 

topical guides published by the GSEs from time to time. Such 

remedies could include indemnification or repurchase of an 

affected mortgage loan. 
Consent Orders and Settlement Agreements for 

Mortgage Servicing and Foreclosure Practices 
In April 2011, the FRB and the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency (OCC) issued Consent Orders that require us to 

correct deficiencies in our residential mortgage loan servicing 

and foreclosure practices that were identified by federal banking 

regulators in their fourth quarter 2010 review. The Consent 

Orders also require that we improve our servicing and 

foreclosure practices. We believe that we have implemented all 

of the operational changes that resulted from the expanded 

servicing responsibilities outlined in the Consent Orders. 
On February 28, 2013, we entered into amendments to the 
April 2011 Consent Order with both the OCC and the FRB, which 

effectively ceased the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) 

program created by such Consent Order and replaced it with an 

accelerated remediation process to be administered by the OCC 

and the FRB. 
In aggregate, the servicers agreed to make cash payments 
into a qualified settlement fund to be administered by the OCC 

and the FRB and to provide additional assistance, such as loan 

modifications, to consumers. Our portion of the cash settlement 

was $766 million, which was based on the proportionate share of 

Wells Fargo-serviced loans in the overall IFR population. We 
accrued the cash portion of the settlement in 2012, along with 

our estimate of other remediation-re
lated costs, and we paid this 
settlement in first quarter 
2013. We also committed to 

foreclosure prevention actions which include first and second 

lien modifications and short sales/deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure 
on $1.2 billion of loans. We anticipate meeting this commitment 

primarily through first lien modification and short sale activities. 

We are required to meet this commitment by January 7, 2015, 

and we anticipate that we will be able to meet our commitment 

within the required timeline. This commitment did not result in 

any charge as we believe that this commitment is covered 

through the existing allowance for credit losses and the 

nonaccretable difference relating to the purchased credit-

impaired loan portfolios. 
On February 9, 2012, a federal/state settlement was 
announced among the DOJ, HUD, the Department of the 

Treasury, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade 

Commission (FTC), the Executive Office of the U.S. Trustee, the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a task force of Attorneys 

General representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four other 

servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing 

and foreclosure practices. While Oklahoma did not participate in 

the larger settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers 

under a simplified agreement. Under the terms of the larger 

settlement, which will remain in effect for three and a half years 

(subject to a trailing review 
period) we have agreed to the 
following programmatic commitments, consisting of three 

components totaling approximately $5.3 billion: 
 
 
 Consumer Relief Program commitment of $3.4 billion 

Refinance Program commitment of $900 million 

Foreclosure Assistance Program of $1 billion 
Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and FRB 
announced the imposition of civil money penalties of 

$83 million and $87 million, respectively, pursuant to the 
Consent Orders. While still subject to FRB confirmation, Wells 
Fargo believes the civil money obligations were satisfied through 

payments made under the Foreclosure Assistance Program to 

the federal government and participating states for their use to 

address the impact of foreclosure challenges as they determine 

and which may include direct payments to consumers. 
We believe we have successfully executed activities required 
under both the Consumer Relief (and state-level sub-

commitments) and the Refinance Programs in accordance with 

the terms of our commitments. In our August 14, 2013, 

submission to the Monitor of the National Mortgage Settlement, 

we reported sufficient credits to satisfy the requirements of both 

programs. Our earned credits are subject to review and approval 

by the Monitor. 
Asset/Liability Management 
Asset/liability management involves evaluating, monitoring and 
managing interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity and funding. 

Primary oversight of these risks resides with the Finance 

Committee of our Board of Directors (Board), which oversees the 

administration and effectiveness of financial risk management 

policies and processes used to assess and manage these risks. At 

the management level we utilize a Corporate Asset/Liability 

Management Committee (Corporate ALCO), which consists of 

senior financial and business executives, to oversee these risks 

and report on them periodically to the Board™s Finance 

Committee. Each of our principal lines of business has its own 

asset/liability management committee and process linked to the 

Corporate ALCO process. As discussed in more detail for trading 

activities below, we employ separate management level oversight 

specific to the market risks related to our trading activities. 

Market risk, in its broadest sense, refers to the possibility that 

losses will result from the impact of adverse changes in market 

rates and prices on our trading and non-trading portfolios and 

financial instruments. 
INTEREST RATE RISK 
Interest rate risk, which potentially can 
have a significant earnings impact, is an integral part of being a 

financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk 

because: 
     assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different 
times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities 

and interest rates are generally falling, earnings will initially 

decline);  

assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by 

different amounts (for example, when the general level of 

interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates paid on 

checking and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is 

less than the general decline in market interest rates); 

short-term and long-term market interest rates may change 

by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield 

curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs 

differently);  

the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may 

shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if 

long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, MBS held 

in the investment securities portfolio may prepay 

significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce 

portfolio income); or 

interest rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on 

loan demand, collateral values, credit losses, mortgage 

origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and other 

financial instruments, the value of the pension liability and 

other items affecting earnings. 
We assess interest rate risk by comparing outcomes under 
various earnings simulations using many interest rate scenarios 

that differ in the direction of interest rate changes, the degree of 

change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of 

the yield curve. These simulations require assumptions 

regarding how changes in interest rates and related market 

conditions could influence driver
s of earnings and balance sheet 
composition such as loan origination demand, prepayment 

speeds, deposit balances and mix,
 as well as pricing strategies. 
Our risk measures include 
both net interest income 
sensitivity and interest rate se
nsitive noninterest income and 
expense impacts. We refer to the combination of these exposures 

as interest rate sensitive earnings. In general, the Company is 

positioned to benefit from highe
r interest rates. Currently, our 
profile is such that net interest income will benefit from higher 

interest rates as our assets reprice faster and to a greater degree 

than our liabilities, and, in response to lower market rates, our 

assets will reprice downward and to a greater degree than our 

liabilities. Our interest rate sensitive noninterest income and 

expense is largely driven by mort
gage activity, and tends to move 
in the opposite direction of our net interest income. So, in 

response to higher interest rates, mortgage activity, primarily 

refinancing activity, generally decl
ines. And in response to lower 
rates, mortgage activity generally increases. Mortgage results are 

also impacted by the valuation of MSRs and related hedge 

positions. See the ﬁRisk Management Œ Mortgage Banking 

Interest Rate and Market Riskﬂ section in this Report for more 

information. 
The degree to which these sensitivities offset each other is 
dependent upon the timing and magnitude of changes in interest 

rates, and the slope of the yield curve. During a transition to a 

higher or lower interest rate environment, a reduction or 

increase in interest-sensitive earnings from the mortgage 

banking business could occur quickly, while the benefit or 

detriment from balance sheet repricing could take more time to 

develop. For example, our lower rate scenarios (scenario 1 and 

scenario 2) in the following table initially measure a decline in 

long-term interest rates versus our most likely scenario. 

Although the performance in both lower rate scenarios contains 

initial benefit from increased mortgage banking activity, each 

results in lower earnings relative to the most likely scenario over 

time given pressure on net in
terest income. The higher rate 
scenarios (scenario 3 and scenario 4) measure the impact of 

varying degrees of rising short-te
rm and long-term interest rates 
over the course of the forecast horizon relative to the most likely 

scenario, both resulting in positive earnings sensitivity. 
As of December 31, 2013, our most recent simulations 
estimate earnings at risk over the next 24 months under a range 

of both lower and higher interest rates. The results of the 

simulations are summarized in Table 42, indicating cumulative 

net income after tax earnings sensitivity relative to the most 

likely earnings plan over the 24 month horizon (a positive range 

indicates a beneficial earnings sensitivity measurement relative 

to the most likely earnings plan). 
Table 42:  Earnings Sensitivity Over 24 Month Horizon Relative 
to Most Likely Earnings Plan 
Lower rates 
Higher rates 
Most likel
y Scenario 1  
Scenario 2  
Scenario 3  
Scenario 4  
Ending 
rates: 
Fed funds
 0.50 % 
 0.25 
 0.25 
 1.25 
 4.00 
10-year treasury (1) 
3.60  
1.70  
3.10  
4.10  
5.40  
Earnings relative to 
most likely 
N/A 
-4.2% 
-0.4% 
0 - 5% 
>5% (1) U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury Rate 
We use the investment securities portfolio and exchange-
traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives to 
hedge our interest rate exposures. See the ﬁBalance Sheet 
Analysis Œ Investment Securitiesﬂ section in this Report for more 

information on the use of the available-for-sale and held-to-
maturity securities portfolios. The notional or contractual 

amount, credit risk amount and fa
ir value of the derivatives used 
to hedge our interest rate risk exposures as of 

December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, are presented in 
Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financia
l Statements in this Report. We 
use derivatives for asset/liability management in three main 

ways:  

   to convert a major portion of our long-term fixed-rate debt, 
which we issue to finance the Company, from fixed-rate 

payments to floating-rate payments by entering into 
receive-fixed swaps; 

to convert the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability 

instruments/portfolios from fixed-rate payments to 

floating-rate payments or vice versa; and 

to economically hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, 

funded mortgage loans and MSRs using interest rate swaps, 

swaptions, futures, forwards and options. 
MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK 
We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subjects 

us to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate 

risks. Based on market conditions and other factors, we reduce 

credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing some or all of 

the long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans we originate and most 

of the ARMs we originate. On the other hand, we may hold 

originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in our loan 

portfolio as an investment for our growing base of core deposits. 

We determine whether the loans will be held for investment or 

held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently 

change our intent to hold loans 
for investment and sell some or 
all of our ARMs or fixed-rate mortgages as part of our corporate 

asset/liability management. We may also acquire and add to our 

securities available for sale a portion of the securities issued at 

the time we securitize MHFS. 
As expected, with the increase in mortgage interest rates in 
2013, our mortgage banking revenue declined as the level of 

mortgage loan refinance activity significantly decreased 

compared with 2012. The decline in mortgage loan origination 

income (primarily driven by the decline in mortgage loan 

refinancing volume) more than offset the increase in net 

servicing income. The 2012 results reflected an environment of 
very low mortgage interest rates which led to high origination 

volumes and margins. Despite the increase in mortgage interest 

rates, the slow recovery in the housing sector, and the continued 

lack of liquidity in the nonconforming secondary markets, our 

mortgage banking revenue was strong in 2013, reflecting the 

complementary origination and servicing strengths of the 

business. The secondary market for agency-conforming 
mortgages functioned well during 2013. 
Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the 
mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may potentially 

reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our 

residential MSRs measured at fair value, the value of MHFS and 

the associated income and loss reflected in mortgage banking 

noninterest income, the income and expense associated with 

instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair 

value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan 

commitments (interest rate ﬁloc
ksﬂ) extended to mortgage 
applicants. 
Interest rates affect the amount and timing of origination and 
servicing fees because consumer demand for new mortgages and 

the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in 

mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest 

rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees 

and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee income, 

depending on the level of new loans added to the servicing 

portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it takes for consumer 

behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the 

time required for processing a new application, providing the 

commitment, and securitizing and 
selling the loan, interest rate 
changes will affect origination and servicing fees with a lag. The 

amount and timing of the impact on origination and servicing 

fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the 

change in interest rates. 
We measure originations of MH
FS at fair value where an 
active secondary market and readily available market prices exist 

to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these loans. 

Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, 

and related direct loan origination costs are recognized when 

incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other 

interests held related to residential loan sales and 

securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for MHFS 

and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing 

derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs measured at 

fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better matches 

changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of 

derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. During 

2013 and 2012, in response to continued secondary market 

illiquidity, we continued to originate certain prime non-agency 

loans to be held for investment for the foreseeable future rather 

than to be held for sale. In addition, in 2013 and 2012, we 

originated certain prime agency-eligible loans to be held for 
investment as part of our asset/liability management strategy. 
We initially measure all of our MSRs at fair value and carry 
substantially all of them at fair value depending on our strategy 

for managing interest rate risk. Under this method, the MSRs 

are recorded at fair value at the time we sell or securitize the 

related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs carried at 

fair value reflects changes in fair value at the end of each quarter 
Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
and changes are included in net servicing income, a component 
of mortgage banking noninterest income. If the fair value of the 

MSRs increases, income is recognized; if the fair value of the 

MSRs decreases, a loss is recognized. We use a dynamic and 

sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our MSRs and 

periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. 

The valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve 

complex judgments by management about matters that are 

inherently unpredictable. See ﬁCritical Accounting Policies Œ 

Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rightsﬂ section in 

this Report for additional information. Changes in interest rates 

influence a variety of significant assumptions included in the 

periodic valuation of MSRs, including prepayment speeds, 

expected returns and potential risks on the servicing asset 

portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other servicing 

valuation elements. 
A decline in interest rates generally increases the propensity 
for refinancing, reduces the expected duration of the servicing 

portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of MSRs. 

This reduction in fair value caus
es a charge to income for MSRs 
carried at fair value, net of any gains on free-standing derivatives 

(economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We may choose not to 

fully hedge all the potential decline in the value of our MSRs 

resulting from a decline in inte
rest rates because the potential 
increase in origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a 

partial ﬁnatural business hedge.ﬂ An increase in interest rates 

generally reduces the propensity for refinancing, extends the 

expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore 

increases the estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an 

increase in interest rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand 

and therefore reduce origination income. 
The price risk associated with our MSRs is economically 
hedged with a combination of highly liquid interest rate forward 

instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate 

swaps and interest rate options. All of the instruments included 

in the hedge are marked to market daily. Because the hedging 

instruments are traded in highly liquid markets, their prices are 

readily observable and are fully reflected in each quarter™s mark 

to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results include a combination 

of directional gain or loss due to market changes as well as any 

carry income generated. If the e
conomic hedge is effective, its 
overall directional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the 

valuation of the underlying MSR asset. Gains or losses 

associated with these economic hedges are included in mortgage 

banking noninterest income. Consistent with our longstanding 

approach to hedging interest rate
 risk in the mortgage business, 
the size of the hedge and the particular combination of forward 

hedging instruments at any point in time is designed to reduce 

the volatility of the mortgage business™s earnings over various 

time frames within a range of mo
rtgage interest rates. Because 
market factors, the composition of the mortgage servicing 

portfolio and the relationship between the origination and 

servicing sides of our mortgage business change continually, the 

types of instruments used in our hedging are reviewed daily and 

rebalanced based on our evaluation of current market factors 

and the interest rate risk inherent in our MSRs portfolio. 

Throughout 2013, our economic hedging strategy generally used 

forward mortgage purchase contracts that were effective at 
offsetting the impact of interest rates on the value of the MSR 

asset. 
Mortgage forward contracts are designed to pass the full 
economics of the underlying reference mortgage securities to the 

holder of the contract, including both the directional gain and 

loss from the forward delivery of the reference securities and the 

corresponding carry income. Carry income represents the 

contract™s price accretion from the forward delivery price to the 

spot price including both the yield earned on the reference 

securities and the market implied cost of financing during the 

period. The actual amount of carry income earned on the hedge 

each quarter will depend on the amount of the underlying asset 

that is hedged and the particular instruments included in the 

hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the slope of the 

yield curve and other market driven supply and demand factors 

affecting the specific reference securities. A steep yield curve 

generally produces higher carry income while a flat or inverted 

yield curve can result in lower or potentially negative carry 

income. The level of carry income is also affected by the type of 

instrument used. In general, mortgage forward contracts tend to 

produce higher carry income than 
interest rate swap contracts. 
Carry income is recognized over the life of the mortgage forward 

as a component of the contract™s mark to market gain or loss. 
Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage 
banking is a complex process that requires sophisticated 

modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance 

these various aspects of the mortgage business, there are several 

potential risks to earnings: 
Valuation changes for MSRs associated with interest rate 

changes are recorded in earnings immediately within the 

accounting period in which 
those interest rate changes 
occur, whereas the impact of those same changes in interest 

rates on origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and 

over time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected 

from adverse changes in interest rates over a period of time 

on a cumulative basis but still display large variations in 

income from one accounting period to the next. 

The degree to which the ﬁnatural business hedgeﬂ offsets 

valuation changes for MSRs is imperfect, varies at different 

points in the interest rate cycl
e, and depends not just on the 
direction of interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly 

interest rate changes. 

Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging 

results and associated costs are also affected by many 

factors. Such factors include the mix of new business 

between ARMs and fixed-rate mortgages, the relationship 
between short-term and long-ter
m interest rates, the degree 
of volatility in interest rates, the relationship between 

mortgage interest rates and other interest rate markets, and 

other interest rate factors. Additional factors that can 

impact the valuation of the MSRs include changes in 

servicing and foreclosure costs due to changes in investor or 

regulatory guidelines, as well 
as individual state foreclosure 
legislation, and changes in discount rates due to market 

participants requiring a higher return due to updated 

market expectations on costs and risks associated with 

investing in MSRs. Many of these factors are hard to predict 
  and we may not be able to directly or perfectly hedge their 
effect. 
While our hedging activities a
re designed to balance our 
mortgage banking interest rate risks, the financial 

instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with the 

values and income being hedged. For example, the change 

in the value of ARM production held for sale from changes 

in mortgage interest rates may or may not be fully offset by 

Treasury and LIBOR index-based financial instruments 

used as economic hedges for such ARMs. Additionally, 

hedge-carry income we earn on our economic hedges for the 

MSRs may not continue if the spread between short-term 

and long-term rates decreases, we shift composition of the 

hedge to more interest rate swaps, or there are other 

changes in the market for mortgage forwards that affect the 

implied carry. 
The total carrying value of our residential and commercial 
MSRs was $16.8 billion and $12.7 billion at December 31, 2013 

and 2012, respectively. The weighted-average note rate on our 
portfolio of loans serviced for others was 4.52% and 4.77% at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The carrying value of 

our total MSRs represented 0.88% and 0.67% of mortgage loans 

serviced for others at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into 
commitments to fund residential mortgage loans at specified 

times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest 

rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a 

specified interest rate and within a specified period of time, 

generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These 

loan commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans 

that will result from the exercise of the commitments will be held 

for sale. These derivative loan commitments are recognized at 

fair value on the balance sheet with changes in their fair values 

recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest income. The 

fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during 

the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash 

flows related to the associated servicing of the loan as part of the 

fair value measurement of 
derivative loan commitments. 
Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair 

value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the 

commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not 

fund within the terms of the commitment, referred to as a fall
-out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is 

affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of 

time. Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the 
risk that the price of the mortgage loans underlying the 

commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage 

interest rates from inception of the rate lock to the funding of the 

loan. To minimize this risk, we employ mortgage forwards and 

options, Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury futures, 

forwards and options contracts as economic hedges against the 

potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that 

these derivative financial instruments will experience changes in 

fair value that will either fully or partially offset the changes in 

fair value of the derivative loa
n commitments. However, changes 
in investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, can also 
cause changes in the spread relationships between underlying 

loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot 

be hedged. 
MARKET RISK Œ TRADING ACTIVITIES 
We engage in trading 
activities primarily to accommodate the investment and risk 

management activities of our customers, execute economic 

hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a 

very limited amount of proprietary trading for our own account. 

These activities primarily occur within our trading businesses 

and include entering into transactions with our customers that 

are recorded as trading assets and liabilities on our balance 

sheet. The primary risk metric used to monitor our trading 

assets and liabilities is Value-at-Risk (VaR). Value-at-Risk is 
covered in more detail in the Value-At-Risk Overview section in 
this Report. Assets and liabilit
ies held outside of our trading 
portfolio are primarily monitored through the use of earnings 

simulations as described above. 
Valuation Process 
All of our trading assets and liabilities, 
including securities, foreign exchange transactions, commodity 

transactions and derivatives are carried at fair value. Income 

earned related to these trading activities include net interest 

income and changes in fair value related to trading assets and 

liabilities. Net interest income earned on trading assets and 

liabilities is reflected in the interest income and interest expense 

components of our income statement. Changes in fair value of 

trading assets and liabilities are reflected in net gains (losses) on 

trading activities, a component of noninterest income in our 

income statement. For a discussion of our significant accounting 

policies and how we determine fair value, see Note 1 (Summary 

of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in 

this Report. For descriptions of 
the valuation methodologies we 
use for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring 

basis and for estimating fair value for financial instruments at 

fair value, see Note 16 (Derivatives) and Note 17 (Fair Values of 

Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
From a market risk perspective, our net income is exposed to 
changes in the fair value of trading assets and liabilities due to 

changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, 

equity and commodity prices. Our Market Risk Committee, 

which is a management committee reporting to the Finance 

Committee of the Board, provides governance and oversight over 

market risk-taking activities across the Company. 
Table 43 presents total revenue from trading activities. 
Table 43:  Income from Trading Activities 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Interest income (1) 
$  1,376 
1,358 1,440 Less: Interest expense (2)
 307 245 316 Net interest income
 1,069 
1,113 1,124 Noninterest income: 
Net gains (losses) from 
trading activities (3): 
Customer accommodation
 1,278 
1,347 1,029 Economic hedges and other (4)
 332 345  (1) 
Proprietary trading 
13 15  (14) 
Total net trading gains
 1,623 
1,707 1,014 Total trading-related net interest 
and noninterest income 
$  2,692 
2,820 2,138 (1) Represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities. 
(2) Represents interest and dividend expense incurred on trading securities we have 
sold but have not yet purchased. 
(3) Represents realized gains (losses) from our trading activity and unrealized gains 
(losses) due to changes in fair value of our trading positions, attributable to the 
type of business activity. 
(4) Excludes economic hedging of mortgage banking activities and asset/liability 
management. 
Customer accommodation 
Customer accommodation activities 
are conducted to help customers manage their investment needs 
and risk management and hedging activities. We engage in 

market-making activities or act as an intermediary to purchase 

or sell financial instruments in anticipation of or in response to 

customer needs. This category also includes positions we use to 

manage our exposure to such transactions. 
For the majority of our customer accommodation trading, we 
serve as intermediary between buyer and seller. For example, we 

may purchase or sell a derivative to a customer who wants to 

manage interest rate risk exposure. We typically enter into 

offsetting derivative or security positions with a separate 

counterparty or exchange to manage our exposure to the 

derivative with our customer. We earn income on this activity 

based on the transaction price difference between the customer 

and offsetting derivative or security positions, which is reflected 

in the fair value changes of the positions recorded in net gains 

(losses) on trading activities. 
Customer accommodation trading also includes net gains 
related to market-making activities in which we take positions to 

facilitate customer order flow. For example, we may own 

securities recorded as trading assets (long positions) or sold 

securities we have not yet purchased, recorded as trading 

liabilities (short positions), typically on a short-term basis, to 
facilitate anticipated buying and selling demand from our 

customers. As market-maker in these securities, we earn income 

due (1) to the difference between the price paid or received for 

the purchase and sale of the security (bid-ask spread) and (2) the 
net interest income and change in fair value of the long or short 

positions during the short-term period held on our balance 

sheet. Additionally, we may enter 
into separate derivative or 
security positions to manage our exposure related to our long or 

short security positions. Collectively, income earned on this type 
of market-making activity is reflected in the fair value changes of 

these positions recorded in net gain (losses) on trading activities. 
Economic hedges and other 
Economic hedges in trading are not 
designated in a hedge accounting relationship and exclude 
economic hedging related to our 
asset/liability risk management 
and substantially all mortgage banking risk management 

activities. Economic hedging activities include the use of trading 

securities to economically hedge risk exposures related to non-

trading activities or derivatives to hedge risk exposures related 

to trading assets or trading liabilities. Economic hedges are 

unrelated to our customer accommodation activities. Other 

activities include financial assets held for investment purposes 

that we elected to carry at fair value with changes in fair value 

recorded to earnings in order to mitigate accounting 

measurement mismatches or avoid embedded derivative 

accounting complexities. 
Proprietary trading  
Proprietary trading consists of security or 
derivative positions executed for our own account based upon 

market expectations or to benefit from price differences between 

financial instruments and markets. Proprietary trading activity 

has been substantially restricted by the Dodd-Frank Act 

provisions known as the ﬁVolcker Rule.ﬂ On December 10, 2013, 

federal banking regulators, the SEC and CFTC jointly released a 

final rule to implement the Volcker Rule™s restrictions. Banking 

entities are not required to come into compliance with the 

Volcker Rule™s restrictions until July 21, 2015, however, we will 

be required to report cert
ain trading metrics beginning 
June 30, 2014. During the conformance period, banking entities 

are expected to engage in ﬁgood faithﬂ planning efforts, 

appropriate for their activities and investments, to enable them 

to conform all of their activities and investments to the Volcker 

Rule™s restrictions by no later than July 21, 2015. Accordingly, we 

reduced and are exiting certain business activities in anticipation 

of the final Volcker Rule. As discussed within this section and 

the noninterest income section of our financial results, 

proprietary trading activity is insignificant to our business and 

financial results. For more details on the Volcker Rule, see the 

ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ section in this Report. 
Daily Trading Revenue  
Table 44 and Table 45 provide 
information on daily trading-related revenues for the Company™s 
trading portfolio. This trading-related revenue is defined as the 
change in value of the trading 
assets and trading liabilities, 
trading-related net interest income and trad
ing-related intra-day 
gains and losses. Net trading-related revenue does not include 
activity related to long-term positions held for economic hedging 

purposes, period-end adjustments and other activity not 

representative of daily price chan
ges driven by market factors. 
Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
        Table 44:  Distribution of Daily Trading-Related Revenues (for the year ended December 31, 2013) 
  Table 45:  Daily Trading-Related Revenues 
  Market Risk Governance
  The Finance Committee of our Board 
reviews and approves the acceptable level of market risk for the 

Company. The Corporate Risk Group™s Market Risk Committee 

is responsible for governance and oversight over market risk-

taking activities across the Company as well as the establishment 

of risk tolerances and line of business VaR limits. The Corporate 

Market Risk Group, which is part of the Corporate Risk Group, 

administers and monitors compliance with the requirements 

established by the Market Risk Committee. The Corporate 

Market Risk Group has oversight responsibilities in identifying, 

measuring and monitoring the Company™s market risk. The 

group is responsible for quantitative market risk model 

development, establishing indepe
ndent risk limits, calculation 
and analysis of market risk capital, and reporting aggregated and 

line of business market risk information. Limits are regularly 

reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and within the market 

risk appetite for the Company. There is an automated limits 

monitoring system that enables a daily comprehensive review of 

multiple limits mandated across businesses by the Corporate 
Market Risk Group. Limits are set with inner boundaries that 

will be periodically breached to promote an ongoing dialogue of 

risk exposure within the Company. Each line of business that 

exposes the Company to market risk has direct responsibility for 

managing market risk in accordance with defined risk tolerances 

and approved market risk mandates and hedging strategies. As 

described below, we measure and monitor market risk for both 

management and regulatory capital purposes. 

 
Market Risk Measurement  
Market Risk is the risk of adverse 
changes in the fair value of the trading portfolios and financial 

instruments held by the Company due to changes in market risk 

factors such as interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange 

rates, equity, and commodity prices
. Market risk is intrinsic to 
the Company™s sales and trading, market making, investing, and 

risk management activities. 
The Company uses VaR metrics complemented with 
sensitivity analysis and stress testing in measuring and 

monitoring market risk. These market risk measures are 
89Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
monitored at both the business unit level and at aggregated 
levels on a daily basis. Our corporate market risk management 

function aggregates all Company exposures to monitor whether 

risk measures are within our established risk appetite. Changes 

to the Company™s market risk profile are analyzed and reported 

on a daily basis. The Company monitors various market risk 

exposure measures from a variety of perspectives, which include 

line of business, product, risk type and legal entity. 
Value-at-Risk Overview 
VaR is a statistical risk measure used to 
estimate the potential loss from adverse moves in the financial 
markets. We utilize VaR models to measure market risk on an 

aggregate basis as well as on a disaggregated basis for each 

individual line of business. The VaR measures assume that 

historical changes in market values (historical simulation 

analysis) are representative of the potential future outcomes and 

measure the expected loss over a given time interval (for 

example, 1 day or 10 days) within a given confidence level. The 

historical simulation analysis approach uses historical changes 

of the risk factors from each trading day in the previous 

12 months. The risk drivers of each trading position with respect 
to interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and 

equity and commodity prices are updated on a daily basis. We 

measure and report VaR for a 1-day holding period and a 10-day 
holding period at a 99% confidence level. This means that we 

would expect to incur single day losses greater than predicted by 

VaR estimates for the measured positions one time in every 

100 trading days. We treat data from all historical periods as 

equally relevant and consider ut
ilizing data for the previous 
12 months as appropriate for determining VaR. We believe using 

a 12 month look back period helps ensure the Company™s VaR is 

responsive to current market conditions. 
VaR measurement between different financial institutions is 
not readily comparable due to modeling and assumption 

differences from company to company. VaR measures are more 

useful when interpreted as an indi
cation of trends rather than an 
absolute measure to be compared across institutions. 
The VaR model is subject to limitations which are well 
established in the industry. Some of the primary limitations 

include availability of historical data and determining the 

appropriate mathematical model assumptions. These limitations 

are monitored by a management committee of the Market Risk 

Committee and Corporate Model Risk Committee (CMoR). The 

CMoR consists of senior executive management and reports on 

material model risk issues to the Risk Committee of the Board. 
Sensitivity Analysis Overview Sensitivity analysis is the measure 
of exposure to a single risk factor, such as a one basis point 

increase in rates or a 1% increase in equity prices. We conduct 

and monitor sensitivity on interest rates, credit spreads, 

volatility, equity, commodity, and foreign exchange exposure. 

Since VaR is based upon previous moves in market risk factors 

over recent historical periods, it may not provide accurate 

predictions of future market moves. Sensitivity analysis 

complements VaR as it provides an indication of risk relative to 

each factor irrespective of historical market moves. 
Stress Testing Overview 
While VaR captures the risk of loss due 
to adverse changes in markets using recent historical market 

data, stress testing captures the Company™s exposure to extreme, 

but low probability market movements. Stress scenarios 

estimate the risk of losses based on management™s assumptions 

of abnormal but severe market movements such as severe credit 

spread widening or a large decline in equity prices. These 

scenarios also assume that the market moves happen 

instantaneously and no repositi
oning or hedging activity takes 
place to mitigate losses as events unfold (although experience 

demonstrates otherwise). 
An inventory of scenarios is maintained representing both 
historical and hypothetical stress events that affect a broad range 

of market risk factors with varying degrees of correlation and 

differing time horizons. Historical scenarios utilize an event-

driven approach: the stress scenarios are based on plausible but 

rare events, and the analysis addresses how these events might 

affect the risk factors relevant to a portfolio. Hypothetical 

scenarios assess the impact of large movements in financial 

variables on portfolio values. Typical examples include a 

100 basis point increase across the yield curve or a 10% decline 

in stock market indexes. However,
 this analysis lacks historical 
and economic content, which can limit its usefulness. 
The Company™s stress testing framework is also used in 
calculating results in support of the Federal Reserve Board™s 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis & Review (CCAR) and internal 

risk measures. Stress scenarios are regularly reviewed and 

updated to address potential ma
rket events or concerns. For 
more detail on the CCAR process, see the ﬁCapital Managementﬂ 

section in this Report. 
Market Risk Monitoring  Trading VaR is the VaR measure used 

to provide insight into the market risk exhibited by the 

Company™s trading positions. The Company calculates Trading 

VaR for risk management purposes to establish line of business 

risk limits. Trading VaR is calculated based on all trading 

positions classified as trading assets or trading liabilities on our 

balance sheet. In addition, the Company monitors and manages 

a variety of sensitivity exposures and stress testing estimates. 
Table 46 shows the results of the Company™s Trading VaR by 
risk category. As presented in the table, average Trading VaR 

was $21 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013, 

compared with $18 million for the quarter ended 

September 30, 2013. The increase was primarily driven by 

changes in portfolio composition. 
Table 46:  Trading 1-Day 99% VaR Metrics 
Quarter ended 
December 31, 2013 
September 30, 2013 
(in millions) 
Period end 
Average 
Low 
High Period 
end Average 
Low 
High 
VaR Risk Categories 
Credit 
$ 32 33 30 36 31 32 29 34 Interest rate 
20 19 13 25 25 24 17 31 Equity
 9 6 4 9 6 7 6 8 Commodity 
1 2 1 3 3 3 2 4 Foreign exchange
 -1 -2 1 1 1 2 Diversification benefit (1)
 (38)
 (40)
 (47)
 (49) 
Total VaR
 24 21 19 18 (1) The period-end VaR was less than the sum of the VaR components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The 
diversification effect arises because the 
risks are not perfectly correlated causing a portfolio of positions to usually be less risky than the sum of the risks of the p
ositions alone. The diversification benefit is not 
meaningful for low and high metrics since they may occur on different days. 
Model Risk Management
  Internal market risk models are 
governed by our Corporate Model Risk policies and procedures, 
which include model validation. The purpose of model validation 

includes ensuring the model is appropriate for its intended use 

and that appropriate controls exist to help mitigate the risk of 

invalid results. Model validation assesses the adequacy and 

appropriateness of the model, including reviewing its key 

components such as inputs, processing components, logic or 

theory, output results and supporting model documentation. 

Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable 

model inputs are appropriate given observable market 

transactions or other market data within the same or similar 

asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are appropriate 

given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with 

their intended purpose. The Corporate Model Risk group 

provides oversight of model validation and assessment 

processes. 
All internal valuation models are subject to ongoing review 
by business-unit-level management, and all models are subject 

to additional oversight by a corporate-level risk management 
department. Corporate oversight responsibilities include 

evaluating the adequacy of business unit risk management 

programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies 

and standards and reporting the results of these activities to 

management and CMoR. 
Regulatory Market Risk Capital
  Effective January 1, 2013, U.S. 
banking regulators adopted ﬁRisk-Based Capital Guidelines: 

Market Riskﬂ as the regulations covering the calculation of 

market risk regulatory capital. The market risk capital rule, 

commonly known as Basel 2.5, requires banking organizations 

with significant trading activities to adjust their capital 

requirements to better account for the market risks of those 

activities. The rule substantially modified the determination of 

market risk-weighted assets, and implements a more risk 

sensitive methodology. The Basel 2.5 regulatory market risk 

capital rule introduced new measures of market risk including 

stressed VaR, an incremental risk charge, and updates to 

standard specific risk charges. The market risk capital rule was 

reflected in the Company™s calculation of risk-weighted assets 

upon initial adoption in first quarter 2013.  
Table 47 summarizes the market risk-based capital 
requirements charge and market RWA as of December 31, 2013, 

in accordance with the Basel 2.5 market risk capital rule. 
Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
Table 47: Market Risk Regulatory Capital and RWA 
December 31, 2013 
(in millions) 
Risk-
based
capital 
 Risk- 
 weighted 
assets 
Total VaR Measure 
$ 252 
3,149 Total Stressed VaR Measure
 921 11,512 Incremental Risk Charge (IRC)
 393 4,913 Total Modeled Capital (1)
 1,566 19,574 Comprehensive Risk Charge (CRC)
 --Standard Specific Risk Charge: 
Securitized Charge
633 7,913 Non-securitized Charge
583 7,289 Total Standard Specific Risk Charge
 1,216 15,202 De minimus Charges
 125 1,563 Total 
$ 2,907 
36,339 (1) 
Includes the ca
pital multi
plier. 
Composition of Material Portfolio of Covered Positions  
The 
Basel 2.5 market risk capital rule substantially modified the 
determination of market RWA, and implemented a more risk 

sensitive methodology for the risks inherent in certain ﬁcoveredﬂ 

trading positions. The positions that are ﬁcoveredﬂ by the market 

risk capital rule are generally a subset of our trading assets and 

trading liabilities, specifically those held by the Company for the 

purpose of short-term resale or with the intent of benefiting 

from actual or expected short-term price movements, or to lock 

in arbitrage profits. 
The material portfolio of the Company™s ﬁcoveredﬂ positions 
is predominantly concentrated in
 the trading assets and trading 
liabilities managed within Wholesale Banking, which is the 

predominant contributor to the Company™s overall VaR. 

Wholesale Banking engages in the fixed income, traded credit, 

foreign exchange, equities, and commodities markets businesses. 
Regulatory Market Risk Capital Components
  The Company™s 
ﬁcovered™ positions are subject to the market risk capital 
requirements, which are based on internally developed models 

or standardized specific risk charges. The market risk regulatory 

capital models are subject to internal model risk management 

and validation. The models are continuously monitored and 

enhanced in response to changes in market conditions, 

improvements in system capabilities, and changes in the 

Company™s market risk exposure. The Company is required to 

obtain and has received prior written approval from its 

regulators before using its internally developed models to 

calculate the market risk capital charge. 
Basel 2.5 prescribes various VaR measures (e.g., Total VaR 
Measure) in the determination of regulatory capital and risk-

weighted assets. The Company uses the same VaR models for 

both market risk management purposes as well as regulatory 

capital calculations. 
Regulatory VaR  The Regulatory VaR measures include: 
Total VaR Measure Œ is composed of General VaR and 

Specific Risk VaR and uses the previous 12 months of 

historical market data to comply with regulatory 

requirements. 
General VaR 
Measures the risk of broad market movements 

such as changes in the level of interest rates, credit 

spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and 

commodity prices.  

Uses historical simulation analysis based on 99% 

confidence level and a 10-day time horizon. 
Specific Risk VaR 
Measures the risk of loss that could result from 

factors other than broad market movement or 

name specific market risk. 

Uses Monte Carlo simulation analysis based on a 

99% confidence level and a 10-day time horizon. 
Total Stressed VaR Measure Œ uses a historical period of 
significant financial stress over a continuous 12 month 

period using historically available market data and is 

composed of General Stressed VaR and Specific Risk 

Stressed VaR. Stressed VaR uses the same methodology and 

models as the Total VaR measure. 
Incremental Risk Charge  An Incremental Risk model, according 

to the market risk capital rule, must capture losses due to both 

issuer default and migration risk at the 99.9% confidence level 

over the one-year capital horizon under the assumption of 

constant level of risk or a constant position assumption. The 

model covers all credit-sensitive non-securitized products. 
The Company calculates Incremental Risk by generating a 
portfolio loss distribution utilizing Monte Carlo simulation, 

which assumes numerous scenarios, where an assumption is 

made that the portfolio™s composition remains constant for a 

one-year time horizon. That is, the model will utilize a constant 

positions assumption. Individual issuer credit grade migration 

and issuer default risk is modeled through generation of the 

issuer™s credit rating transition
 based upon statistical modeling. 
Correlation between credit grade migration and default is 

captured by a multifactor proprietary model which takes into 

account industry classifications as well as regional effects. 

Additionally, the impact of market and issuer specific 

concentrations is reflected in the modeling framework by 

assignment of a higher charge for portfolios that have increasing 

concentrations in particular issu
ers or sectors. Lastly, the model 
captures product basis risk; that is, it reflects the material 

disparity between a position and its hedge. 
Table 48 shows the General VaR measure categorized by 
major risk categories. Table 49 shows the results of the 

Company™s modeled components for regulatory capital 

calculations. As presented in Table 48, average 10-day General 
VaR was $80 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013, 

compared with $64 million for the quarter ended 

September 30, 2013. The increase was primarily driven by 

changes in portfolio composition. 
 oo
Table 48:  10-Day 99% Regulatory General VaR Categories 
Quarter ended 
December 31, 2013 
September 30, 2013 
(in millions) 
Period end A
verage 
Low 
High  Period 
end  
Average 
Low 
High 
Wholesale General VaR Risk Categories 
Credit 
$ 102 107 92 120 111 107 81 130 Interest rate 
40 40 24 61 51 39 23 58 Equity
 7 4 2 8 4 4 2 8 Commodity 
4 4 2 5 3 3 2 4 Foreign exchange
 1 2 1 6 2 2 1 4 Diversification benefit (1)
 (81)
 (92)
 -- (115)
 (105)
 --Wholesale General VaR 
$ 73 65 49 79 56 50 26 66 Company General VaR 
79 80 60 96 70 64 41 81 (1) The period-end VaR was less than the sum of the VaR components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The 
diversification effect arises because the risks 
are not perfectly correlated causing a portfolio of positions to usually be less risky than the sum of the risks of the positio
ns alone. The diversification benefit is not 
meaningful for low and high metrics since they may occur on different days. 
Table 49:  Regulatory Modeled Components Used to Calculate RWA 
Quarter ended 
December 31, 2013 
September 30, 2013 
(in millions) 
Period end A
verage 
Low 
High  Period 
end Average  
Low 
High 
Total VaR Measure 
$ 84 84 67 103 75 70 47 86 Total Stressed VaR Measure
 328 307 245 420 746 355 269 746 Incremental Risk Charge (IRC) 
425 393 354 442 383 348 297 403 Comprehensive Risk Charge (CRC)
 --------Total Modeled Capital 
$ 837 
784 1,204 773 Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
Securitization Positions  Basel 2.5 imposes a separate market 
risk capital charge for positions classified as a securitization or 

re-securitization. The primary criteria for classification as a 
securitization is whether there is a transfer of risk and whether 

the credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been 

separated into at least two tranches reflecting different levels of 

seniority. Covered trading securitizations positions under Basel 

2.5 include ABS, commercial mortgage-backed securities 
(CMBS), residential mortgage-b
acked securities (RMBS), and 

collateralized loan and other debt obligations (CLO/CDO) 

positions. The securitization capital requirements are the greater 

of the capital requirements of the net long or short exposure, and 

are capped at the maximum loss that could be incurred on any 

given transaction. Table 50 shows the aggregate net fair market 

value of securities and derivati
ve securitization positions by 
exposure type that meet the regulatory definition of a covered 

trading securitization position at December 31, 2013. 
Table 50:  Covered Securitization Positions by Exposure Type 
(Market Value) 
December 31, 2013 
(in millions) 
ABS CMBS 
RMBS  
CLO/CDO  
Securitization Exposure 
Securities 
$ 604 
559 479 561 Derivatives
 (2)
 2 16
 (72) 
Total 
$ 602 
561 495 489 Securitization Due Diligence and Risk Monitoring  The market 
risk capital rule requires that for every covered trading 

securitization and re-securitization position, the Company 

conducts due diligence on the risk of each position within three 

days of the execution of the purchase of that position. The 

Company™s due diligence provides an understanding of the 

features that would materially affect the performance of a 

securitization or re-securitization. The due diligence procedures 

are again performed on a quarterly basis for each securitization 

and re-securitization position. The Company attempts to manage 

the risks associated with securitization and re-securitization 

positions through the use of offsetting positions and portfolio 

diversification. The Company has implemented an automated 

solution intended to track the due diligence associated with 

every transaction and position. 
Comprehensive Risk Charge / Correlation Trading 
The market 
risk capital rule requires capital for correlation trading positions. 
The net market value of correlation trading positions that meet 

the definition of a covered position at December 31, 2013 was a 

net loss of less than $1 million, all of which were long positions. 

Correlation trading is a discontinued business in which the 

Company is no longer active, with current positions hedged and 

maturing over time. Given the immaterial aspect of this 

discontinued activity, the Company has elected not to develop an 

internal model based approach bu
t will utilize standard specific 
risk charges for these positions. 
Other Specific Risk 
For positions that are not evaluated by the 
approved internal specific risk models, a regulatory prescribed 
standard specific risk charge is applied. The standard specific 

risk add-on for sovereign entities, public sector entities and 
depository institutions is ba
sed on the Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) country risk 

classifications (CRC) and the remaining contractual maturity of 

the position. These risk add-ons for debt positions ranges from 

0.25% to 12%. The add-on for corporate debt is based on credit 

spreads and the remaining contractual maturity of the position. 

All other types of debt positions are subject to an 8% add-on. 
The standard specific risk add-on for equity positions is 
generally 8%. 
VaR Backtesting  The Basel 2.5 market risk capital rule requires 
conducting backtesting as one form of validation of the VaR 

model. Backtesting is a comparison of the daily VaR estimate 

with the actual clean profit and loss (clean P&L) as defined by 

the market risk capital rule. Clean P&L is the change in the value 

of the Company™s covered trading positions that would have 

occurred had previous end-of-day covered trading positions 

remained unchanged (therefore, excluding fees, commissions, 

net interest income, and intraday
 trading gains and losses). The 
backtesting analysis compares the daily Total VaR Measure for 

each of the trading days in the preceding 12 months with the net 

clean P&L. Clean P&L does not include credit adjustments and 

other activity not representative of daily price changes driven by 

market risk factors. The clean P&L measure of revenue is used to 

evaluate the performance of the Total VaR Measure and is not 

comparable to our actual daily trading net revenues, as reported 

elsewhere in this Report. 
Any observed clean P&L loss in excess of the Total VaR 
Measure is considered an exception. The actual number of 

exceptions (that is, the number of business days for which the 

clean P&L losses exceed the corresponding 1-day, 99% Total VaR 

Measure) over the preceding 12 months is used to determine the 

VaR multiplier for the capital calculation. The number of actual 

backtesting exceptions is dependent on current market 

performance relative to historic market volatility. This capital 

multiplier increases from a minimum of three to a maximum of 
four, depending on the number of exceptions. 
There were no backtesting exceptions which occurred in 
fourth quarter 2013. There were exceptions in second quarter 

2013 that were driven by increased volatility in the fixed income 

markets from uncertainty about the Federal Reserve™s intentions 

regarding their quantitative easing efforts. These exceptions did 

not result in an increase in the capital multiplier. 
Table 51 shows daily Total VaR Measure (1-day, 99%) for the 
year ended December 31, 2013. The Wells Fargo average Total 

VaR Measure for fourth quarter 2013 was $21 million with a low 

of $18 million and a high of $25 million. 
Table 51:  Daily Total VaR Measure 
Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
MARKET RISK Œ EQUITY INVESTMENTS 
We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the equity markets. We make 
and manage direct equity investments in start-up businesses, 

emerging growth companies, management buy-outs, 

acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in 

non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity 

investments. These private equity investments are made within 

capital allocations approved by management and the Board. The 

Board™s policy is to review business developments, key risks and 

historical returns for the private equity investment portfolio at 

least annually. Management reviews the valuations of these 

investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible 

OTTI. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on 

facts and circumstances of each individual investment and the 

expectations for that investment™s cash flows and capital needs, 

the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. 

Nonmarketable investments include private equity investments 

accounted for under the cost method and equity method. Private 

equity investments are subject to OTTI. 
As part of our business to support our customers, we trade 
public equities, listed/OTC equity derivatives and convertible 

bonds. We have parameters that 
govern these activities. We also 
have marketable equity securities in the securities available-for-

sale portfolio, including securities relating to our venture capital 

activities. We manage these investments within capital risk 

limits approved by management
 and the Board and monitored 
by Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on these securities are 

recognized in net income when re
alized and periodically include 
OTTI charges. 
Changes in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our 
net income by (1) the value of third party assets under 

management and, hence, fee income, (2) borrowers whose 

ability to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by the 

stock market, or (3) brokerage activity, related commission 

income and other business activities. Each business line 

monitors and manages these indirect risks. 
Table 52 provides information regarding our marketable and 
nonmarketable equity investments. 
Table 52:  Nonmarketable and Marketable Equity Investments
 December 
31, (in millions) 
2013  
2012 Nonmarketable equity investments: 
Cost method: 
Private equity investments 
$ 2,308 
2,572 Federal bank stock
 4,670 
4,227 Total cost method
 6,978 
6,799 Equity method and other: 
LIHTC investments (1) 
 6,209 
4,767 Private equity and other
 5,782 
6,156 Total equity method and other 
 11,991 
10,923 Fair value (2)
 1,386 
-Total nonmarketable 
equity investments (3) 
$ 20,355 
17,722 Marketable equity securities: 
Cost 
$ 2,039 
2,337 Net unrealized gains
 1,346 
448 Total marketable 
equity securities (4) 
$ 3,385 
2,785 (1) Represents low income housing tax credit investments. 
(2) Represents nonmarketable equity investments for which we have elected the fair 
value option. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other 
Assets) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements 

in this Report for additional information. 
(3) Included in other assets on the balance sheet. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, 
Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in this Report for 
additional information. 
(4) Included in securities available for sale. See Note 5 (Investment Securities) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 
LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING 
The objective of effective liquidity 
management is to ensure that we can meet customer loan 
requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other 

cash commitments efficiently under both normal operating 

conditions and under periods of Wells Fargo-specific and/or 

market stress. To achieve this objective, the Corporate ALCO 

establishes and monitors liquidity guidelines that require 

sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding 

requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less 

reliable funding markets. We set these guidelines for both the 

consolidated company and for the Parent to ensure that the 

Parent is a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking 
banking subsidiaries. 
We maintain liquidity in the form of cash, cash equivalents 
and unencumbered high-quality, liquid securities. These assets 
make up our primary sources of li
quidity. Our cash is primarily 
on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Securities included as part 

of our primary sources of liquidity are comprised of U.S. 

Treasury and federal agency debt, and mortgage-backed 

securities issued by federal agencies within the available-for-sale 

securities portfolio. We believe these securities provide quick 

sources of liquidity through repurchase agreements or sales, 

regardless of market conditions. High-quality, liquid held-to
-maturity securities are not intended for sale but may be utilized 

in repurchase agreements to obtai
n financing. Some of the legal 
entities within our consolidated group of companies are subject 
to various regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that can 
limit the transferability of their funds. Accordingly, we believe 

we maintain adequate liquidity at these entities in consideration 

of such funds transfer restrictions.
Table 53 provides the primary sources of liquidity as of
December 31, 2013. 
Table 53:  Primary Sources of Liquidity 
December 31, 2013 
(in millions) 
Total 
Encumbered 
Unencumbered 
Cash on deposit 
$ 186,249
 -186,249 Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 6,280 571 5,709 Mortgage-backed securities of federal agencies (1)
 123,796 60,605 63,191 Total 
$ 316,325
 61,176 255,149 (1) Included in encumbered securities are securities with a fair value of $653 million which were purchased in December 2013 but se
ttled in January 2014. 
Other than our primary sources of liquidity shown in Table 
53, liquidity is also available through the sale or financing of 

other securities including trading and/or available-for-sale 

securities, as well as through the sale, securitization or financing 

of loans, to the extent such securities and loans are not 

encumbered. In addition, other held-to-maturity securities, to 
the extent not encumbered, may be used in repurchase 

agreements to obtain financing. 
Core customer deposits have historically provided a sizeable 
source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. At 

December 31, 2013, core deposits were 119% of total loans 
compared with 118% a year ago. Additional funding is provided 

by long-term debt, other foreign deposits, and short-term 
borrowings. Long-term debt averaged $134.9 billion in 2013 and 

$127.5 billion in 2012. Short-term borrowings averaged 
$54.7 billion in 2013 and $51.2 billion in 2012. 
We access domestic and inte
rnational capital markets for 
long-term funding (generally greater than one year) through 

issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and 

asset-backed secured funding. Investors in the long-term capital 

markets, as well as other market participants, generally will 

consider, among other factors, a company™s debt rating in 

making investment decisions. Rating agencies base their ratings 

on many quantitative and qualitat
ive factors, including capital 
adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, the level and 

quality of earnings, and rating agency assumptions regarding the 

probability and extent of federal financial assistance or support 

for certain large financial institutions. Adverse changes in these 

factors could result in a reduction of our credit rating; however, 

our debt securities do not contain credit rating covenants. 
Generally, rating agencies review a firm™s ratings at least 
annually. There were no changes to our credit ratings in 2013, 

and both the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. remain among 

the top-rated financial firms in the U.S. On October 8, 2013, 
Fitch Ratings affirmed all the ratings of the Parent and its rated 

subsidiaries; on October 25, 2013, Standard & Poor™s Ratings 

Services (S&P) affirmed all the ratings of the Parent and its rated 

subsidiaries; and on November 14, 2013, Moody™s Investors 

Service (Moody™s) confirmed all the ratings of the Parent and its 

rated subsidiaries. This ratings confirmation by Moody™s 

followed completion of their review regarding whether to 

continue incorporating the possibility of federal support in 

ratings applicable to certain bank holding companies in light of 

recent regulatory developments re
lated to the Title II Orderly 
Liquidation Authority of the Dodd-Frank Act. Moody™s decided 
to eliminate any assumption of federal support for the impacted 

holding companies, including the Parent. However, Moody™s also 

concluded that the same regulatory developments were likely to 

reduce the severity of losses for bank holding company creditors 

in the event of default, reflecting the potential benefits of a more 

orderly resolution of bank holding companies and their related 

banks. The net result of these offsetting conclusions was the 

confirmation of our ratings. S&P is likewise reviewing their 

support assumptions for certain bank holding companies in light 

of the same regulatory developments. That review is ongoing and 

S&P has not specified a timeframe for completion of their 

review. 
See the ﬁRisk Management Œ Asset/Liability Managementﬂ 
and ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ sections in this Report for additional 

information regarding our credit ratings as of 

December 31, 2013, and the potential impact a credit rating 
downgrade would have on our liquidity and operations, as well 

as Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report 

for information regarding additional collateral and funding 

obligations required for certain derivative instruments in the 

event our credit ratings were to fall below investment grade. 
The credit ratings of the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
as of December 31, 2013, are presented in Table 54. 
Table 54:  Credit Ratings 
Wells Fargo & Company 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
Senior debt  
Short-term 
borrowings  
Long-term  
deposits 
Short-term 
borrowings  
Moody's 
A2 P-1 
Aa3  P-1 
S&P 
A+ A-1  
AA-A-1+  
Fitch Ratings 
AA-F1+  
AA F1+  
DBRS 
AA R-1* 
AA** R-1** 
* middle
  **high 
Risk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
On January 6, 2013, the Basel Committee on Bank 
Supervision (BCBS) endorsed a revised Basel III liquidity 
framework for banks. In October 2013, a Notice of Proposed 

Rulemaking (NPR) regarding the U.S. implementation of the 

Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) was issued by the FRB, 

OCC and FDIC. The NPR™s public comment period closed on 

January 31, 2014, and the agencies will review and take into 

consideration the comments filed on the proposal before 

adopting a final rule. The FRB recently finalized rules imposing 

enhanced liquidity management standards on large BHCs such 

as Wells Fargo. We will continue to analyze these proposed and 

recently finalized rules and other regulatory proposals that may 

affect liquidity risk management to determine the level of 

operational or compliance impact to Wells Fargo. For additional 

information see the ﬁCapital Managementﬂ and ﬁRegulatory 

Reformﬂ sections in this Report. 
Parent Under SEC rules, our Parent is classified as a ﬁwell-
known seasoned issuer,ﬂ which allows it to file a registration 

statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity. In 

April 2012, the Parent filed a registration statement with the 

SEC for the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, preferred 

stock and other securities. The Parent™s ability to issue debt and 

other securities under this registration statement is limited by 

the debt issuance authority granted by the Board. The Parent is 

currently authorized by the Board to issue $60 billion in 

outstanding short-term debt and $170 billion in outstanding 

long-term debt. At December 31, 2013, the Parent had available 

$41.9 billion in short-term debt issuance authority and 

$82.2 billion in long-term debt issuance authority. The Parent™s 
debt issuance authority granted by the Board includes short-

term and long-term debt issued to affiliates. During 2013, the 

Parent issued $13.1 billion of senior notes, of which $6.9 billion 

were registered with the SEC. In addition, during 2013, the 

Parent issued $5.5 billion of subordinated notes, all of which 

were registered with the SEC. 
During fourth quarter 2013, the 
Parent exchanged $2.1 billion of subordinated notes issued by 

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. for $2.4 billion of unregistered 

subordinated notes issued by the Parent. In addition, during 

fourth quarter 2013, the Parent exchanged $672 million of 

subordinated notes issued by the Parent for $723 million of 

unregistered subordinated notes issued by the Parent. A 

registration statement filed by the Parent on December 17, 2013, 

was declared effective on January 3, 2014, and provides for these 

newly issued unregistered subordinated notes to be exchanged 

for registered securities. The offer to exchange these 

unregistered subordinated notes for registered notes 

commenced on January 6, 2014. In addition, in January 2014, 

the Parent issued $1.7 billion of registered senior notes. 
The Parent™s proceeds from securities issued in 2013 were 
used for general corporate purposes, and, unless otherwise 

specified in the applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement, 

we expect the proceeds from securities issued in the future will 

be used for the same purposes. Depending on market conditions, 

we may purchase our outstanding debt securities from time to 

time in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by 

tender offer, or otherwise. 
Table 55 provides information regarding the Parent™s 
medium-term note (MTN) programs. The Parent may issue 

senior and subordinated debt securities under Series L & M, and 

the European and Australian programmes. Under Series K, the 

Parent may issue senior debt securities linked to one or more 

indices or bearing interest at a fixed or floating rate. 
Table 55: Medium-Term Note (MTN) Programs 
December 31, 2013 
(in billions) 
Date 
established 
Debt 
issuance 
authority 
Available  
for issuance 
MTN program: 
Series L & M (1) 
May 2012  
$ 25.0 
9.4 Series K (1)(3) 
April 2010 
25.022.3 European (2)(4) 
December 2009 
25.016.7 European (2)(5) 
August 2013 
10.010.0 Australian (2)(6) 
June 2005 
AUD 10.0
5.7 (1) SEC registered. 
(2) Not registered with the SEC. May not be offered in the United States without 
applicable exemptions from registration. 
(3) As amended in April 2012. 
(4) As amended in April 2012 and April 2013. For securities to be admitted to listing 
on the Official List of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority and to trade 
on the Re
gulated Market of the London Stock Exchan
ge. (5) For securities that will not be admitted to listing, trading and/or quotation by any 

stock exchange or quotation system, or will be admitted to listing, trading and/or 
quotation by a stock exchange or quotation system that is not considered to be a 

regulated market. 
(6) As amended in October 2005, March 2010 and September 2013. 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized 
by its board of directors to issue $100 billion in outstanding 
short-term debt and $125 billion in outstanding long-term debt. 

At December 31, 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had available 

$100 billion in short-term de
bt issuance authority and 
$80.1 billion in long-term debt issuance authority. In March 
2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a $100 billion bank 

note program under which, subject to any other debt 

outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue 

$50 billion in outstanding short-term senior notes and 

$50 billion in outstanding long-term senior or subordinated 

notes. During 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $8.9 billion 

of senior notes under the bank note program. At 

December 31, 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining 
issuance capacity under the bank note program of $50 billion in 

short-term senior notes and $36.6 billion in long-term senior or 

subordinated notes. In addition, during 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, 

N.A. executed advances of $24.0 billion with the Federal Home 

Loan Bank of Des Moines, of which $19.0 billion remained 

outstanding at December 31, 2013. 
Wells Fargo Canada Corporation
 In February 2014, Wells Fargo Canada Corporation (WFCC), an indirect wholly 
owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the 
Canadian provincial securities commissions a base shelf 

prospectus for the distribution from time to time in Canada of up 

to CAD $7.0 billion in medium-term notes. During 2013, WFCC 
issued CAD $1.5 billion in medium-term notes using availability 

outstanding under its prior base shelf prospectus. In 

January 2014, WFCC issued an additional CAD $1.3 billion in 
medium-term notes also using availability outstanding under its 
prior base shelf prospectus. All medium-term notes issued by 

WFCC are unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent. 
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP 
The Federal 
Home Loan Banks (the FHLBs) are a group of cooperatives that 

lending institutions use to finance housing and economic 

development in local communities. We are a member of the 

FHLBs based in Dallas, Des Moines and San Francisco. Each 

member of the FHLBs is required to maintain a minimum 
investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of 

directors of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment 

requirements in the event it has concluded that additional 

capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital 

requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment 

requirements outside of specified ranges requires the approval of 

the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any 

obligation to increase our investment in any of the FHLBs 

depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential 

future payments to the FHLBs are not determinable. 
Capital Management 
We have an active program for managing stockholders™ equity 

and regulatory capital, and maintain a comprehensive process 

for assessing the Company™s overall capital adequacy. Our 

objective is to maintain capital at an amount commensurate 

with our risk profile and risk tolerance objectives, and to meet 

both regulatory and market expectations. Our potential sources 

of stockholders™ equity primarily include retention of earnings 

net of dividends, as well as issuances of common and preferred 

stock. Retained earnings increased $14.7 billion from 

December 31, 2012, predominantly from Wells Fargo net income 

of $21.9 billion, less common and preferred stock dividends of 

$7.2 billion. During 2013, we issued approximately 115 million 
shares of common stock, substantially all of which related to 

employee benefit plans. In March 2013, we issued 25 million 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a 
share of the Company™s newly issued 5.25% Non-Cumulative 

Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series P, for an aggregate 

public offering price of $625 million. In July 2013, we issued 

69 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the Company™s newly issued 5.85% Fixed
-
to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred 
Stock, Series Q, for an aggregate public offering price of 

$1.7 billion. In December 2013, we issued 34 million Depositary 

Shares, each representing a 1/1000
th interest in a share of the 
Company™s newly issued 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series R, for an 

aggregate public offering price of $840 million. During 2013, we 

repurchased approximately 124 million shares of common stock 

in open market transactions and from employee benefit plans, at 

a net cost of $5.1 billion. In addition, the Company entered into 

a $500 million forward purchase contract in December 2013 

with an unrelated third party that is expected to settle in first 

quarter 2014 for approximately 11 million shares. For additional 

information about our forward repurchase agreements see Note 

1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial 

Statements in this Report.  
Regulatory Capital Guidelines 
The Company and each of our insured depository institutions 

are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy requirements 

administered by the FRB and the OCC. Risk-based capital (RBC) 

guidelines establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to 

different categories of assets and off-balance sheet exposures. At 

December 31, 2013, the Company and each of our insured 

depository institutions were ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ under applicable 
regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. See Note 26 (Regulatory 

and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in 

this Report for additional information. 
Current regulatory RBC rules are based primarily on broad 
credit risk considerations and market-related risks, but do not 

take into account other types of risk facing a financial services 

company. The RBC rules are based primarily upon the 1988 

capital accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 

(BCBS) establishing international guidelines for determining 

regulatory capital known as ﬁBasel I.ﬂ Our capital adequacy 

assessment process contemplates a wide range of risks that the 

Company is exposed to and also takes into consideration our 

performance under a variety of stressed economic conditions, as 

well as regulatory expectations and guidance, rating agency 

viewpoints and the view of capital markets participants. 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Company implemented 
changes to the market risk capital rule, commonly referred to as 

Basel 2.5, as required by federal banking regulators. Basel 2.5 

requires banking organizations with significant trading activities 

to adjust their capital requirements to better account for the 

market risks of those activities. The market risk capital rule is 

reflected in the Company™s calculation of RWA and, upon initial 

adoption in first quarter 2013, reduced capital ratios under 

Basel I by approximately 25 basis points, but did not impact our 

ratio under Basel III, as its impact has historically been included 

in our calculations. In December 2013, the FRB approved a final 

rule, effective April 1, 2014, revising the market risk capital rule 

to, among other things, conform the rule to the FRB™s new 

capital framework finalized in July 2013 and discussed below. 

For additional information see the ﬁRisk Management Œ 

Asset/Liability Managementﬂ section in this Report. 
In 2007, federal banking regulators approved a final rule 
adopting revised international guidelines for determining 

regulatory capital known as ﬁBasel II.ﬂ Basel II incorporates 

three pillars that address (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory 

review, which relates to the computation of capital and internal 

assessment processes, and (c) market discipline, through 

increased disclosure requirements. We entered the ﬁparallel run 

phaseﬂ of Basel II in July 2012. During the ﬁparallel run phase,ﬂ 

banking organizations must successfully complete an evaluation 

period under supervision from regulatory agencies in order to 

receive approval to calculate risk-based capital requirements 

under the advanced approach guidelines. The parallel run phase 

will continue until we receive regulatory approval to exit parallel 

reporting and subsequently begin publicly reporting our 
Capital Management 
(continued) 
advanced approach regulatory capital results and related 
disclosures. 
In December 2010, the BCBS finalized a set of further revised 
international guidelines for determining regulatory capital 

known as ﬁBasel III.ﬂ These guidelines were developed in 

response to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 and were 

intended to address many of the weaknesses identified in the 

previous Basel standards, as well as in the banking sector that 

contributed to the crisis includin
g excessive leverage, inadequate 
and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. 
In July 2013, federal banking regulators approved final and 
interim final rules to implement the BCBS Basel III capital 

guidelines for U.S. banking organizations. These final capital 

rules, among other things: 

    
   implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory 
capital reforms including those that revise the definition of 

capital, increase minimum capital ratios, and introduce a 

minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 4.5% and a 

capital conservation buffer of 2.5% (for a total minimum 

CET1 ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical buffer of 

up to 2.5%, which would be imposed by regulators at their 

discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit 

growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk; 

require a Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets 

ratio of 4% and introduce, for large and internationally 

active bank holding companies (BHCs), a Tier 1 

supplementary leverage ratio of 3% that incorporates off-

balance sheet exposures; 

revise Basel I rules for calculating RWA to enhance risk 

sensitivity under a standardized approach; 

modify the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules for 

calculating RWA to implement Basel III; 

deduct certain assets from CET1, such as deferred tax assets 

that could not be realized through net operating loss carry-

backs, significant investments in non-consolidated financial 
entities, and MSRs, to the extent any one category exceeds 

10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% 

of CET1; 

eliminate the accumulated other comprehensive income or 

loss filter that applies under RBC rules over a five-year 

phase in beginning in 2014; and 

comply with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the 

reliance on external credit ratings. 
We were required to comply with the final Basel III capital 
rules beginning January 2014, with certain provisions subject to 

phase-in periods. The Basel III capital rules are scheduled to be 
fully phased in by January 1, 2022. Based on our interpretation 

of the final capital rules, we estimate that our CET1 ratio under 

the final Basel III capital rules using the advanced approach 

method exceeded the fully phased-in minimum of 7.0% by 

276 basis points at December 31, 2013. Because the rules were 

only recently finalized, the interpretations and assumptions we 

use in estimating our calculations are subject to change 

depending on our ongoing review of the final capital rules and 

any guidance received from our regulators. 
Consistent with the Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank 
Act, banking organizations that have completed their parallel 
run process and have been approved by the FRB to use the 

advanced approach methodolog
y to determine applicable 
minimum risk-weighted capital ratios and additional buffers 
must use the higher of their RWA as calculated under (i) the 

advanced approach rules, and (ii) from January 1, 2014, to 

December 31, 2014, the general Basel I RBC rules and, 

commencing on January 1, 2015, and thereafter, the risk 

weightings under the standardized approach. 
In July 2013, federal banking regulators introduced 
proposals that would enhance the recently finalized 

supplementary leverage ratio requirements for large BHCs like 

Wells Fargo and their insured depository institutions. Under the 

proposals, effective on January 1, 2018, a covered BHC would be 

required to maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of at least 

5% to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and 

discretionary bonus payments. The proposals would also require 

that all of our insured depository institutions maintain a 

supplementary leverage ratio of 
6% in order to be considered 
well capitalized. Based on our review, our current leverage levels 

would exceed the applicable proposed requirements for the 

holding company and each of our insured depository 

institutions. Federal banking regulators, however, have 

indicated they may make further changes to the U.S. 

supplementary leverage ratio requirements based on revisions to 

the Basel III leverage framework proposed by the BCBS in 2013 

and finalized in January 2014. In addition, as discussed in the 

ﬁRisk Management Œ Asset/Liability Management Œ Liquidity 
and Fundingﬂ section in this Report, a Notice of Proposed 

Rulemaking regarding the U.S. implementation of the Basel III 

LCR was issued by the FRB, OCC and FDIC in October 2013. The 

proposal, which has not been finalized, was substantially similar 

to the BCBS proposal but differed in some respects that may be 

viewed as a stricter version of the LCR, such as proposing a more 

aggressive phase-in period. 
The FRB has also indicated that it is in the process of 
considering new rules to address the amount of equity and 

unsecured debt a company must h
old to facilitate its orderly 
liquidation and to address risks related to banking organizations 

that are substantially reliant on short-term wholesale funding. 

In addition, the FRB is developing rules to implement an 

additional CET1 capital surcharge on those U.S. banking 

organizations, such as the Company, that have been designated 

by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) as global systemically 

important banks (G-SIBs). The G-SIB surcharge would be in 

addition to the minimum Basel III 7.0% CET1 requirement and 

ranges from 1.0% to 3.5% of RWA, depending on the bank™s 

systemic importance, which would be determined under an 

indicator-based approach that co
nsiders five broad categories: 
cross-jurisdictional activity; size; inter-connectedness; 
substitutability/financial institution infrastructure; and 

complexity. The G-SIB surcharge is expected to be phased in 

beginning in January 2016 and become fully effective on 

January 1, 2019. The FSB, in an updated listing published in 

November 2013 based on year-end 2012 data, identified the 

Company as one of the 29 G-SIBs and provisionally determined 
that the Company™s surcharge would be 1.0%. The FSB is 

expected to update the list of G-SIBs and their required 
surcharges prior to implementation based on additional or 
future data. 
Capital Planning and Stress Testing 
Under the FRB™s capital plan rule, large BHCs are required to 

submit capital plans annually for review to determine if the FRB 

has any objections before making any capital distributions. The 

rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material 

changes in a BHC™s risk profile, including as a result of any 

significant acquisitions. 
On March 14, 2013, the FRB notified us that it did not object 
to our 2013 capital plan includ
ed in the 2013 CCAR. Since the 
FRB notification, the Company took several capital actions, 

including increasing its quarterly common stock dividend rate to 

$0.30 per share, redeeming Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp. 

preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital 

under the Dodd-Frank Act and the final Basel III capital 

standards, and repurchasing shares of our common stock. 
Our 2014 CCAR, which was submitted on January 3, 2014, 
included a comprehensive capital plan supported by an 

assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a given 

planning horizon under a range of expected and stress scenarios, 

similar to the process the FRB used to conduct the CCAR in 

2013. As part of the 2014 CCAR, the FRB also generated a 

supervisory stress test, which assumed a sharp decline in the 

economy and significant decline in asset pricing using the 

information provided by the Company to estimate performance. 

The FRB is expected to review the supervisory stress results both 

as required under the Dodd-Frank Act using a common set of 

capital actions for all large BHCs and by taking into account the 

Company™s proposed capital actions. The FRB has indicated that 

it will publish its supervisory stress test results as required 

under the Dodd-Frank Act, and the related CCAR results taking 

into account the Company™s proposed capital actions, in March 

2014. In addition to CCAR, federal banking regulators also require 
stress tests to evaluate whether an institution has sufficient 

capital to continue to operate during periods of adverse 

economic and financial conditions. In October 2012, the FRB 

issued final rules regarding stress testing requirements as 

required under the Dodd-Frank Act provision imposing 

enhanced prudential standards on large BHCs such as Wells 

Fargo. The OCC issued and finalized similar rules during 2012 

for stress testing of large national banks. The FRB issued interim 

final rules in September 2013 clarifying how companies should 

incorporate the Basel III capital rules into their capital planning 

and stress testing exercises. These stress testing rules, which 

became effective for Wells Fargo on November 15, 2012, set 

forth the timing and type of stress test activities large BHCs and 

banks must undertake as well as rules governing stress testing 

controls, oversight and disclosure requirements. As required 

under the FRB™s stress testing rule, we completed a mid-cycle 
stress test based on March 31, 2013, data and scenarios 

developed by the Company. We submitted the results of the mid-

cycle stress test to the FRB in July 2013 and disclosed a 

summary of the results in September 2013. 
Securities Repurchases 
From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to 

repurchase shares of our common stock. Although we announce 

when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do 

not give any public notice before we repurchase our shares. 

Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market 

repurchases, including block transactions, accelerated or 

delayed block transactions, forward transactions, and similar 

transactions. Additionally, we may enter into plans to purchase 

stock that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Various factors determine the amount 

and timing of our share repurchases, including our capital 

requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for 

employee benefit plans and acquisitions, market conditions 

(including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and 

legal considerations, including the FRB™s response to our capital 

plan and to changes in our risk profile. 
In October 2012, the Board authorized the repurchase of 
200 million shares. At December 31, 2013, we had remaining 

authority under this authorization to purchase approximately 

74 million shares, subject to regulatory and legal conditions. For 

more information about share repurchases during 2013, see Part 

II, Item 2 in this Report. 
Historically, our policy has been to repurchase shares under 
the ﬁsafe harborﬂ conditions of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities 

Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume 

of repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily volume 
limitation on share repurchases during a pending merger or 

acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or 

all of the consideration. Our 
management may determine that 
during a pending stock merger or acquisition when the safe 

harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best interest to 

repurchase shares in excess of this additional daily volume 

limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in 

compliance with the other conditions of the safe harbor, 

including the standing daily volume limitation that applies 

whether or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition. 
In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase 
Program (CPP), a part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program 

(TARP), we issued to the U.S. Treasury Department warrants to 

purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock with an 

exercise price of $34.01 per share expiring on October 28, 2018. 

The Board authorized the repurchase by the Company of up to 

$1 billion of the warrants. On May 26, 2010, in an auction by the 

U.S. Treasury, we purchased 70,165,963 of the warrants at a 

price of $7.70 per warrant. We have purchased an additional 

986,426 warrants, all on the open market, since the U.S. 

Treasury auction. At December 31, 2013, there were 

39,108,864 warrants outstanding and exercisable and 

$452 million of unused warrant repurchase authority. 

Depending on market conditions, we may purchase from time to 

time additional warrants in privately negotiated or open market 

transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 
Risk-Based Capital and Risk-Weighted Assets 
Table 56 and Table 57 provide information regarding the 

composition of and change in our risk-based capital, 
respectively, under Basel I. 
Capital Management 
(continued) 
Table 56:  Risk-Based Capital Components Under Basel I 
December 31, 
(in billions) 
2013 
2012 Total equity 
$ 171.0 
158.9 Noncontrolling interests
 (0.9)  
 (1.3) 
Common stockholders' equity 
170.1 
157.6 Adjustments: 
Preferred stock
 (15.2)
 (12.0) 
Cumulative other comprehensive income
 (1.4)
 (5.6) 
Goodwill and other intangible assets (1)
 (29.6)
 (30.4) 
Investment in certain subsidiaries and other 
(0.4)
 (0.6) 
Tier 1 common equity (2) 
(A) 
123.5 
109.0 Preferred stock
 15.2 12.0 Qualifying hybrid securities and noncontrolling interests
 2.0 5.6 Total Tier 1 capital 
140.7 
126.6 Long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2
 20.5 17.2 Qualifying allowance for credit losses
 14.3 13.6 Other 0.7 0.2 Total Tier 2 capital 
35.5 31.0 Total qualifying capital 
(B) 
$ 176.2 
157.6 Risk-weighted assets (RWAs) (3): 
Credit risk 
$ 1,105.2 
1,066.2 Market risk 
36.3 10.9 Total RWAs 
(C) 
$ 1,141.5 
1,077.1 Capital Ratios: 
Tier 1 common equity to total RWAs 
(A)/(C) 
10.82 %
 10.12 Total capital 
(B)/(C) 
15.43
14.63 (1) Goodwill and other intangible assets are net of any associated deferred tax liabilities. 
(2) Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to as
sess the capital position of financial services 
companies. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and h
as included this non-GAAP financial 
information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in such information on the part 
of market participants. 
(3) Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivative
s and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one 
of several broad risk categories according to the obligor, or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The 
aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is 
then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categorie
s are aggregated for determining total risk-
weighted assets. 
Table 57:  Analysis of Changes in Capital Under Basel I 
(in billions) 
Tier 1 common equity at December 31, 2012 
$ 109.0 Net income
20.9 Common stock dividends 
 (6.1) 
Common stock repurchased
 (2.6) 
Other changes in addition paid in capital
0.7 Goodwill and other intangible assets (net of any associated deferred tax liabilities)
0.9 Other0.7 Change in Tier 1 common equity
 14.5 Tier 1 common equity at December 31, 2013 
$ 123.5 Tier 1 capital at December 31, 2012 
$ 126.6 Change in Tier 1 common equity
14.5 Issuance of noncumulative perpetual preferred
3.1 Redemption of trust preferred securities
 (2.8) 
Other (0.7) 
Change in Tier 1 capital 
14.1 Tier 1 capital at December 31, 2013 
 (A) 
$ 140.7 
Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2012 
$ 31.0 
Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 
3.3 Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses 
0.7 Other 0.5 Change in Tier 2 capital 
4.5 Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2013 
 (B) 
35.5 Qualifying capital 
 (A) + (B) 
$ 176.2 
Table 58 presents information on the components of RWAs include
d within our regulatory capital ratios under Basel I. Additional 
information regarding the composition of market risk-weighted assets is provided in Table 59 in this Report. 
Table 58:  Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel I
 December 
31, (in millions)
 2013 
2012 On-balance sheet RWAs 
Investment securities 
$  93,445 
85,205 Securities financing transactions (1)
 10,385 
20,040 Loans (2)
 680,953 
660,724 Market risk
 36,339 
10,947 Other 91,788 
83,981 Total on-balance sheet RWAs
 912,910 
860,897 Off-balance sheet RWAs 
Commitments and guarantees (3)
 199,197 
180,151 Derivatives
 10,545 
13,599 Other 18,862 
22,503 Total off-balance sheet RWAs
 228,604 
216,253 Total RWAs under Basel I 
$  1,141,514 
 1,077,150 
(1) Represents fed funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements. 
(2) Represents loans held for sale and loans held for investment. 
(3) Primarily includes financial standby letters of credit and other unused commitments. 
Capital Management 
(continued) 
Table 59 presents changes in RWAs for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
Table 59: Analysis of Changes in Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel I 
(in millions) 
RWAs at December 31, 2012 
$ 1,077,150 
Net change in on-balance sheet RWAs: 
Investment securities
8,240 Securities financing transactions
 (9,655) 
Loans
20,229 Market risk
25,392 Other7,807 Total change in on-balance sheet RWAs
52,013 Net change in off-balance sheet RWAs: 
Commitments and guarantees
19,046 Derivatives
 (3,054) 
Other (3,641) 
Total change in off-balance sheet RWAs 
12,351 
RWAs at December 31, 2013 
$ 1,141,514 
The increase in on-balance sheet RWAs was primarily due to increased market risk, loan exposure and investment securities. Off-
balance sheet RWAs primarily increased due to
 newly issued commitments and guarantees. 
Table 60 provides information regarding our CET1 calculation as
 estimated under Basel III using the advanced approach method. 
Table 60: Common Equity Tier 1 Under Basel III (1)(2) 
(in billions) 
December 31, 2013 
Tier 1 common equity under Basel I 
$ 123.5 Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III (3) (4): 
Cumulative other comprehensive income related to AFS securities and defined benefit pension plans
 1.3 Other
1.4 Total adjustments from Basel I to Basel III
 2.7 Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III (4) (5)
 -Common Equity Tier 1 anticipated under Basel III 
(C) $ 126.2 
Total RWAs anticipated under Basel III (6) 
(D) $ 1,293.4 
Common Equity Tier 1 to total RWAs anticipated under Basel III
 (C)/(D) 
9.76 % (1) Common Equity Tier 1 is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess
 the capital position of financial services 
companies. Management reviews Common Equity Tier 1 along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and h
as included this non-GAAP financial 
information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in such information on the part of market participants. 
(2) The Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 and RWAs are estimated based on management™s interpretation of the Basel III capital rules a
dopted July 2, 2013, by the FRB. The rules 
establish a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations that implement the Basel III capital framework a
nd certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank 
Act. 
(3) Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III represent reconciling adjustments, primarily certain components of cumulative other compr
ehensive income deducted for Basel I 
purposes, to derive Common Equity Tier 1 under Basel III. 
(4) Volatility in interest rates can have a significant impact on the valuation of cumulative other comprehensive income and MSRs a
nd therefore, may impact adjustments from 
Basel I to Basel III, and MSRs subject to threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, in future reporting periods. 
(5) Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, include individual and aggregate limitations, as a percentage of Common Equit
y Tier 1, with respect to MSRs (net of related 
deferred tax liability, which approximates the MSR book value times the applicable statutory tax rates), deferred tax assets an
d investments in unconsolidated financial 
companies. 
(6) The final Basel III capital rules provide for two capital frameworks: the "standardized" approach intended to replace Basel I, 
and the "advanced" approach applicable to 
certain institutions as originally defined under Basel II. Under the final rules, we will be subject to the lower of our Common
 Equity Tier 1 ratio calculated under the 
standardized approach and under the advanced approach in the assessment of our capital adequacy. Accordingly, the estimate of R
WA reflects management's interpretation 
of RWA determined under the advanced approach because management expects RWA to be higher using the advanced approach compared 
with the standardized approach. 
Basel III capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve Board incorporate different classification of assets, with certain risk 
weights based on a borrower's credit rating or 
Wells Far
go's own models, alon
g with ad
justments to address a combination of credit/counter
part
y, operational and market risks, and other Basel III elements. 
Regulatory Reform Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, the U.S. 
financial services industry has been subject to a significant 

increase in regulation and regulatory oversight initiatives. This 

increased regulation and oversight has substantially changed 

how most U.S. financial services companies conduct business 

and has increased their regulatory compliance costs. The 

following highlights the more significant regulations and 

regulatory oversight initiatives that have affected or may affect 

our business. For additional information about the regulatory 

reform matters discussed below and other regulations and 

regulatory oversight matters, see Part I, Item 1 ﬁRegulation and 

Supervisionﬂ of our 2013 Form 10-K, and the ﬁCapital 

Management,ﬂ ﬁForward-Looking Statementsﬂ and ﬁRisk 

Factorsﬂ sections and Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital 

Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Dodd-Frank Act 
The Dodd-Frank Act is the most significant financial reform 

legislation since the 1930s and is driving much of the current 

U.S. regulatory reform efforts. The Dodd-Frank Act and many of 

its provisions became effective in July 2010 and July 2011. 

However, a number of its provisions still require final 

rulemaking or additional guid
ance and interpretation by 
regulatory authorities or will be implemented over time. 

Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-

Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and the 

Company remain uncertain. The following provides additional 

information on the Dodd-Frank Act, including the current status 

of certain of its rulemaking initiatives. 
Enhanced supervision and regulation of systemically 

important firms
. The Dodd-Frank Act grants broad 

authority to federal banking regulators to establish 

enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for 

systemically important firms. The FRB has finalized a 

number of regulations implementing enhanced prudential 

requirements for large bank holding companies (BHCs) like 

Wells Fargo regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk 

and liquidity management, and stress testing and imposing 

debt-to-equity limits on any BHC that regulators determine 
poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United 

States. The FRB has also proposed, but not yet finalized, 

additional enhanced prudential standards that would 

implement single counterparty credit limits and establish 

remediation requirements for large BHCs experiencing 

financial distress. In addition to the authorization of 

enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for 

systemically important firms, the Dodd-Frank Act also 

established the Financial Stability Oversight Council 

(FSOC) and the Office of Financial Research, which may 

recommend new systemic risk management requirements 

and require new reporting of systemic risks. The OCC, 

under separate authority, has also recently released for 

public comment proposed new guidelines establishing 

heightened governance and risk management standards for 

large national banks such as Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
The Collins Amendment.  
This provision of the Dodd-Frank 
Act phases out the benefit of issuing trust preferred 

securities by eliminating them from Tier 1 capital over a 

three year period that began on January 1, 2013. 

Regulation of consumer financial products.  
The Dodd-
Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection 

Bureau (CFPB) to ensure 
consumers receive clear and 
accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to 

protect them from hidden fees and unfair or abusive 

practices. With respect to residential mortgage lending, the 

CFPB issued a number of final rules in 2013 implementing 

new requirements that generally became effective in 

January 2014. These rules include provisions requiring 

creditors originating residential mortgage loans to make a 

reasonable and good faith determination that each 

applicant has a reasonable ability to repay the loan. In 

addition, these rules established a definition of ﬁqualified 

mortgageﬂ to support a broad access to credit for consumers 

coupled with legal protections for lenders and secondary 

market purchasers. These rules also impose requirements 

on servicers to correct loan information errors, to provide 

information in response to borrower requests, and to 

provide protection to borrowers in cases of force-placed 
insurance. Other rules address policy and procedural 

concerns, such as requirements to provide notice or 

information regarding certain interest rate adjustments or 

payoff information; to evaluate borrower applications for 

and to provide delinquent borrowers with information 

regarding loss mitigation options; and to establish loan 

originator compensation restrictions, high-cost mortgage 

requirements, appraisal requirements, and escrow 

standards for higher-priced mortgages. In November 2013, 
the CFPB also finalized rules integrating disclosures 

required of lenders and settlement agents under the Truth 

in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures 

Act effective August 1, 2015. In addition to these rulemaking 

activities, the CFPB is continuing its on-going supervisory 

examination activities of the financial services industry with 

respect to a number of consumer businesses and products, 

including credit card add-on products, fair lending 

requirements, and student lendin
g activities. At this time, 
the Company cannot predict the full impact of the CFPB™s 

rulemaking and supervisory authority on our business 

practices or financial results. 
Regulators also provided guidance to the financial 
services industry regarding the provision of short-term, 

small-dollar loans to consumers, such as our direct deposit 

advance service. On January 17, 2014, we announced that 

we would discontinue our direct deposit advance service. 

New consumer checking accounts opened February 1, 2014, 

or later will not be eligible to access the service, while 

existing customers will be able
 to access the service until 
mid-2014. Discontinuation of the service is not expected to 

have a material financial impact on the Company. 

Volcker Rule. 
The Volcker Rule substantially restricts 
banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading or 
    Regulatory Reform 
(continued) 
owning any interest in or sponsoring or having certain 
relationships with a hedge fund, a private equity fund or 

certain structured transactions that are deemed covered 

funds. On December 10, 2013, federal banking regulators, 

the SEC and CFTC jointly released a final rule to implement 

the Volcker Rule™s restrictions. Banking entities are not 

required to come into compliance with the Volcker Rule™s 

restrictions until July 21, 2015. Banking entities with 

$50 billion or more in trading assets and liabilities such as 

Wells Fargo, however, will be required to report certain 

trading metrics beginning June 30, 2014. During the 

conformance period, banking entities are expected to 

engage in ﬁgood-faithﬂ planning efforts, appropriate for 

their activities and investments, to enable them to conform 

all of their activities and investments to the Volcker Rule™s 

restrictions by no later than July 21, 2015. Limited further 

extensions of the compliance period may be granted at the 

discretion of the FRB. As a banking entity with more than 
$50 billion in consolidated assets, we will also be subject to 

enhanced compliance program requirements. We continue 

to evaluate the final rule and assess its impact on our 

trading and investment activities, but we do not anticipate a 

material impact to our financial results as proprietary 

trading is not significant to our financial results. Moreover, 

we already have reduced or exited certain businesses in 

anticipation of the rule™s compliance date and, although we 

expect to have to divest certain investments in non-

conforming funds as a result of the rule, such divestments 

will be limited and are not expected to be material to our 

financial results. 

Regulation of swaps and other derivatives activities
. The 
Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive framework 

for regulating over-the-counter derivatives and authorized 
the CFTC and the SEC to regulate swaps and security-based 

swaps, respectively. The CFTC and SEC jointly adopted new 

rules and interpretations that established the compliance 

dates for many of their rules implementing the new 

regulatory framework, including provisional registration of 

our national bank subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as a 

swap dealer, which occurred at 
the end of 2012. In addition, 
the CFTC has adopted final rules that, among other things, 

require extensive regulatory and public reporting of swaps, 

require certain swaps to be centrally cleared and traded on 

exchanges or other multilateral platforms, and require swap 

dealers to comply with comprehensive internal and external 

business conduct standards. Margin rules for swaps not 

centrally cleared have been proposed and, if adopted, may 

significantly increase the cost of hedging in the over-the-

counter market. These new rules, as well as others being 

considered by regulators in other jurisdictions, may 

negatively impact customer 
demand for over-the-counter 
derivatives. 
Also included in this regulatory framework are certain 
ﬁpush-outﬂ provisions affecting 
U.S. banks acting as dealers 
in commodity swaps, equity swaps and certain credit default 

swaps, which will require that these activities be conducted 

through an affiliate. The ﬁpush-outﬂ provision in the Dodd-

Frank Act provided for a July 2013 effective date and 
granted the OCC discretion to provide a transition period of 

up to two years for banks to comply with the new 

requirements. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. prepared and filed a 

transition period request with the OCC, and the OCC 

granted the request providing a twenty-four month 
transition period which began on July 16, 2013. 

Changes to ABS markets. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires 
sponsors of ABS to hold at least a 5% ownership stake in the 

ABS. Exemptions from the requirement include qualified 

residential mortgages (QRMs) and FHA/VA loans. Federal 
regulatory agencies proposed initial joint rules in 2011 to 

implement this credit risk retention requirement, which 

included an exemption for the GSE™s mortgage-backed 

securities. The 2011 proposal was subject to extensive public 

comment, and the agencies issued a second proposal in 

2013. The second proposal revised the definition of QRMs, 

which are exempt from the risk retention requirements, to 

align the definition with the Consumer Financial Protection 

Bureau™s definition of ﬁqualified mortgage.ﬂ The second 

proposal also addressed the measures for complying with 

the risk retention requirement and continued to provide 

limited exemptions for qualifying commercial loans, 

qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying 

automobile loans that meet certain requirements. If 

adopted as written, the current proposal may impact our 

ability to issue certain asset-backed securities or otherwise 

participate in various securitization transactions. Final rules 

have not yet been issued. 

Enhanced regulation of money market mutual funds.  

Citing concerns with perceived risks that money market 
mutual funds may pose to the financial stability of the 

United States, the FSOC released proposed 

recommendations to the SEC for additional regulations 

governing these funds. The FSOC™s proposed 

recommendations included implementation of floating net 

asset value requirements, redemption holdback provisions, 

and capital buffer requirements. These proposed 

recommendations would be in addition to regulatory 

changes with respect to money market mutual funds made 

by the SEC in 2010. The FSOC released the proposed 

recommendations for public comment but has not yet 

adopted final recommendations. Following the FSOC™s 

proposal, the SEC issued its own proposed regulatory 

changes that would, among other things, require a floating 

net asset value for prime institutional money market funds, 

or liquidity fees and redemption gates during periods of 

stress for non-governmental money market funds, or a 

combination of both measures. The SEC™s proposal was 

subject to public comment, but the SEC has not yet adopted 

any of the proposed regulatory changes. 

Regulation of interchange transaction fees (the Durbin 

Amendment).
  On October 1, 2011, the FRB rule enacted to 

implement the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act 

that limits debit card interchange transaction fees to those 

ﬁreasonableﬂ and ﬁproportionalﬂ to the cost of the 

transaction became effective. The rule generally established 

that the maximum allowable interchange fee that an issuer 

may receive or charge for an electronic debit transaction is 
the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points 
multiplied by the value of the transaction. On July 31, 2013, 

the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled 

that the approach used by the FRB in setting the maximum 

allowable interchange transaction fee impermissibly 

included costs that were specifically excluded from 

consideration under the Durb
in Amendment. The District 
Court™s decision maintained the current interchange 

transaction fee standards until the FRB drafts new 

regulations or interim standards. In August 2013, the FRB 

filed a notice of appeal of the decision to the United States 

Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. In 

September 2013, the Court of 
Appeals granted a joint 
motion for an expedited appeal, and the District Court™s 

order has been stayed pending the appeal. The Court of 

Appeals held oral arguments on the appeal in January 2014. 
Regulatory Capital Guidelines and Capital Plans 

During 2013, federal banking regulators issued final rules that 

substantially amended the risk-based capital rules for banking 

organizations. The rules implement the Basel III regulatory 

capital reforms in the U.S., comply with changes required by the 

Dodd-Frank Act, and replace the existing Basel I-based capital 

requirements. We were required to begin complying with the 

rules on January 1, 2014, subject to phase-in periods that are 
scheduled to be fully phased in by January 1, 2022. Federal 

banking regulators have also issued proposals to impose a 

supplementary leverage ratio on large BHCs like Wells Fargo 

and our insured depository institutions and to implement the 

Basel III liquidity coverage ratio. For more information on the 

final capital rules, the proposed leverage and liquidity rules, and 

additional capital requirements under consideration by federal 

banking regulators, see the ﬁCapital Managementﬂ section in this 

Report. 
ﬁLiving Willﬂ Requirements and Related Matters 
Rules adopted by the FRB and the FDIC under the Dodd-Frank 
Act require large financial institutions, including Wells Fargo, to 
prepare and periodically revise resolution plans, so called 

ﬁliving-willsﬂ, that would facilitate their resolution in the event 

of material distress or failure. Under the rules, resolution plans 

are required to provide strategies for resolution under the 

Bankruptcy Code and other applicable insolvency regimes that 

can be accomplished in a reasonable period of time and in a 

manner that mitigates the risk that failure would have serious 

adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States. 

Wells Fargo submitted its resolution plan under these rules on 

June 29, 2013. If the FRB and FDIC determine that our 

resolution plan is deficient, the Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the 

FRB and FDIC to impose more st
ringent capital, leverage or 
liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth or activities 

until we submit a plan remedying the deficiencies. If the FRB 

and FDIC ultimately determine that we have been unable to 

remedy the deficiencies, they could order us to divest assets or 

operations in order to facilitate our orderly resolution in the 

event of our material distress or failure. Our national bank 

subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., is also required to prepare a 

resolution plan for the FDIC under separate regulatory authority 

and submitted the plan on June 29, 2013. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes an orderly liquidation 
process which allows for the appointment of the FDIC as a 

receiver of a systemically important financial institution that is 

in default or in danger of default. The FDIC has issued rules to 

implement its orderly liquidation authority and recently released 

a notice regarding a proposed resolution strategy, known as 

ﬁsingle point of entry,ﬂ designed to resolve a large financial 

institution in a manner that holds management responsible for 

its failure, maintains market stability, and imposes losses on 

shareholders and creditors in accordance with statutory 

priorities, without imposing a cost on U.S. taxpayers. 

Implementation of the strategy would require that institutions 

maintain a sufficient amount of available equity and unsecured 

debt to absorb losses and recapitalize operating subsidiaries. 

The FDIC has requested public comment on this proposed 

resolution strategy. 
Critical Accounting Policies 
Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of 

Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this 

Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of 

operations and financial condition because they require that we 

use estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our 

assets or liabilities and financial results. Six of these policies are 

critical because they require management to make difficult, 

subjective and complex judgments about matters that are 

inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially 

different amounts would be reported under different conditions 

or using different assumptions. These policies govern: 

 
 
 
 
 
 the allowance for credit losses; 

PCI loans; 

the valuation of residential MSRs; 

liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses; 

the fair valuation of financial instruments; and 

income taxes. 
Management has reviewed and approved these critical 
accounting policies and has discussed these policies with the 

Board™s Audit and Examination Committee. 
Allowance for Credit Losses  
The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance 

for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit 

commitments, is management™s estimate of credit losses 

inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit 

commitments, at the balance sheet date, excluding loans carried 

at fair value. We develop and document our allowance 

methodology at the portfolio segment level. Our loan portfolio 

consists of a commercial loan portfolio segment and a consumer 

loan portfolio segment. 
We employ a disciplined process and methodology to 
establish our allowance for credit losses. The total allowance for 
Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
credit losses considers both impaired and unimpaired loans. 
While our methodology attributes portions of the allowance to 

specific portfolio segments, the entire allowance for credit losses 

is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan 

portfolio and unfunded credit commitments. No single statistic 

or measurement determines the appropriateness of the 

allowance for credit losses. 
COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
  The allowance for 
credit losses for unimpaired commercial loans is estimated 

through the application of loss factors to loans based on credit 

risk ratings for each loan. In addition, the allowance for 

unfunded credit commitments, including letters of credit, is 

estimated by applying these lo
ss factors to loan equivalent 
exposures. The loss factors reflect the estimated default 

probability and quality of the underlying collateral. The loss 

factors used are statistically derived through the observation of 

historical losses incurred for loans within each credit risk rating 

over a relevant specified period of time. We apply our judgment 

to adjust or supplement these loss factors and estimates to reflect 

other risks that may be identified from current conditions and 

developments in selected portfolios. These risk ratings are 

subject to review by an internal team of credit specialists. 
The allowance also includes an amount for estimated credit 
losses on impaired loans such as nonaccrual loans and loans that 

have been modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual 

status. 
CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
  Loans are pooled 
generally by product type with similar risk characteristics. Losses 

are estimated using forecasted losses to represent our best 

estimate of inherent loss based on historical experience, 

quantitative and other mathematical techniques over the loss 

emergence period. Each business group exercises significant 

judgment in the determination of the credit loss estimation 

model that fits the credit risk characteristics of its portfolio. We 

use both internally developed and vendor supplied models in this 

process. We often use roll rate or net flow models for near-term 
loss projections, and vintage-based models, behavior score 

models, and time series or statistical trend models for longer-

term projections. Management must use judgment in 

establishing additional input metrics for the modeling processes, 

considering further stratification into sub-product, origination 
channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and other 

predictive characteristics. In addition, we establish an allowance 

for consumer loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or 

nonaccrual status. 
The models used to determine the allowance are validated by 
an internal model validation group operating in accordance with 

Company policies. 
OTHER ACL MATTERS  
The allowance for credit losses for both 
portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or 

uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount 

represents management™s judgment of risks inherent in the 

processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. 

This imprecision considers economic environmental factors, 

modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and other 
subjective factors, including
 industry trends and risk 
assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government 

agencies regarding settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related 

matters. 
Impaired loans, which predom
inantly include nonaccrual 
commercial loans and any loans that have been modified in a 

TDR have an estimated allowance calculated as the difference, if 

any, between the impaired value of the loan and the recorded 

investment in the loan. The impaired value of the loan is 

generally calculated as the present value of expected future cash 

flows from principal and interest, which incorporates expected 

lifetime losses, discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate. 

The development of these expectations requires significant 

management review and judgment. When collateral is the sole 

source of repayment for an impaired loan, rather than the 

borrower™s income or other sources of repayment, we charge 

down to net realizable value which may reduce or eliminate the 

need for an allowance. The allowance for an unimpaired loan is 

based solely on principal losses without consideration for timing 

of those losses. The allowance for an impaired loan that was 

modified in a TDR may be lower than the previously established 

allowance for that loan due to benefits received through 

modification, such as lower probability of default and/or severity 

of loss, and the impact of prior charge-offs or charge-offs at the 

time of the modification that may reduce or eliminate the need 

for an allowance. 
Commercial and consumer PCI loans may require an 
allowance subsequent to their acquisition. This allowance 

requirement is due to probable decreases in expected principal 

and interest cash flows (other than due to decreases in interest 

rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions). 
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES 
Changes in the allowance for credit 
losses and, therefore, in the related provision for credit losses 

can materially affect net income. In applying the review and 

judgment required to determine the allowance for credit losses, 

management considers changes in economic conditions, 

customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences. 

From time to time, economic factors or business decisions, such 

as the addition or liquidation of a loan product or business unit, 

may affect the loan portfolio, causing management to provide or 

release amounts from the allowance for credit losses. 
The allowance for credit losses for commercial loans, 
including unfunded credit commitments (individually risk 

weighted) is sensitive to credit risk ratings assigned to each 

credit exposure. Commercial loan risk ratings are evaluated 

based on each situation by experienced senior credit officers and 

are subject to periodic review by an internal team of credit 

specialists. 
The allowance for credit losses for consumer loans 
(statistically modeled) is sensitive to economic assumptions and 

delinquency trends. Forecasted losses are modeled using a range 

of economic scenarios. 
Assuming a one risk rating downgrade throughout our 
commercial portfolio segment, a more pessimistic economic 

outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment 

and incremental deterioration in our PCI portfolio could imply 
an additional allowance requirement of approximately 
$8.4 billion. 
Assuming a one risk rating upgrade throughout our 
commercial portfolio segment and a more optimistic economic 

outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment 

could imply a reduced allowance requirement of approximately 

$2.0 billion. 
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical scenarios 
and are not considered probable. They do not represent 

management™s view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the 

balance sheet date. Because significant judgment is used, it is 

possible that others performing similar analyses could reach 

different conclusions. 
See the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our 

allowance.  
Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans 
Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their 

origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all 

contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI 

loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of 

acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related 

to these loans is not carried over. Such loans are considered to be 

accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not 

based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. 

Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired in the Wachovia 

acquisition on December 31, 2008. 
Management evaluates whether there is evidence of credit 
quality deterioration as of the purchase date using indicators 

such as past due and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, 

recent borrower credit scores and recent loan-to-value 
percentages. 
The fair value at acquisition is based on an estimate of cash 
flows, both principal and intere
st, expected to be collected, 
discounted at the prevailing marke
t rate of interest. We estimate 
the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition using our 

internal credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment risk 

models, which incorporate our best estimate of current key 

assumptions, such as property values, default rates, loss severity 

and prepayment speeds. 
Substantially all commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, Pick
-
a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into 

pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is 

accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest 

rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. 
The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the 
carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is 

referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest 

income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of 

the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash 

flows expected to be collected. The difference between the 

contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to 

be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of 

prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. 
Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our 
estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. These 

evaluations, performed quarterly, require the continued usage of 

key assumptions and estimates, similar to our initial estimate of 

fair value. We must apply judgment to develop our estimates of 

cash flows for PCI loans given the impact of home price and 

property value changes, changing loss severities, modification 

activity, and prepayment speeds. 
If we have probable decreases in cash flows expected to be 
collected (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and 

changes in prepayment assumpti
ons), we charge the provision 
for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan 

losses. If we have probable and significant increases in cash flows 
expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously 

established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest 

income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life 

of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are impacted 

by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and 

prepayment assumptions, both of which are treated as 

prospective yield adjustments included in interest income. 
The amount of cash flows expected to be collected and, 
accordingly, the appropriateness of the allowance for loan loss 

due to certain decreases in cash flows expected to be collected, is 

particularly sensitive to changes in loan credit quality. The 

sensitivity of the overall allowance for credit losses, including 

PCI loans, is presented in the preceding section, ﬁCritical 

Accounting Policies Œ Allowance for Credit Losses.ﬂ 
See the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit Risk Managementﬂ 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI 

loans. 
Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing 
Rights 
MSRs are assets that represent the rights to service mortgage 
loans for others. We recognize MSRs when we purchase servicing 

rights from third parties, or retain servicing rights in connection 

with the sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset 

transfers). We also have MSRs acquired in the past under co-

issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that were 

originated and securitized by third-party correspondents. We 
initially measure and carry our MSRs related to residential 

mortgage loans at fair value. 
At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of 
MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value 

of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates 

assumptions that market participants use in estimating future 

net servicing income, including estimates of prepayment speeds 

(including housing price volatility), discount rates, default rates, 

cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), 

escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, 

ancillary income and late fees. 
Net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking 
noninterest income, includes the changes from period to period 

in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free-standing 
derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge our residential 

MSRs. Changes in the fair value of residential MSRs result from 

(1) changes in the valuation model inputs or assumptions and  
Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
(2) other changes, representing changes due to 
collection/realization of expected cash flows. Changes in fair 

value due to changes in significant model inputs and 

assumptions include prepayment speeds (which are influenced 

by changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior, 

including estimates for borrower default), discount rates, and 

servicing and foreclosure costs. 
We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the 
value of our MSRs. The model is validated by an internal model 

validation group operating in accordance with Company policies. 

Senior management reviews all significant assumptions 

quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment speed Œ a key assumption 

in the model Œ is the annual rate at which borrowers are 

forecasted to repay their mortgage loan principal including 

estimates for borrower default. The discount rate used to 

determine the present value of estimated future net servicing 

income Œ another key assumption in the model Œ is the required 

rate of return investors in the market would expect for an asset 

with similar risk. To determine the discount rate, we consider the 

risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g., 

possible changes in future servicing costs, ancillary income and 

earnings on escrow accounts). Both assumptions can, and 

generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and 

interest rates change. For example, an increase in either the 

prepayment speed or discount ra
te assumption results in a 
decrease in the fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either 

assumption would result in an increase in the fair value of the 

MSRs. In recent years, there have been significant market-driven 

fluctuations in loan prepayment speeds and the discount rate. 

These fluctuations can be rapid and may be significant in the 

future. Therefore, estimating prepayment speeds within a range 

that market participants would use in determining the fair value 

of MSRs requires significant management judgment. 

Additionally, in recent years, we have made significant 

adjustments to the assumptions for servicing and foreclosure 

costs as a result of an increase in the number of defaulted loans 

as well as changes in servicing processes associated with default 

and foreclosure management. While our current valuation 

reflects our best estimate of these costs, future regulatory 

changes in servicing standards, as
 well as changes in individual 
state foreclosure legislation, may have an impact on these 

assumptions and our MSR valuation in future periods. 
The valuation and sensitivity of MSRs is discussed further in 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 8 

(Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets 

and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 
We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) GSEs, which include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed 
mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities that issue 

private label MBS, and (3) othe
r financial institutions that 
purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label 

securitization. In addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-

guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities guaranteed by 

GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and 

the insurance or guaranty agreements with FHA and VA contain 
provisions that include various representations and warranties 

regarding the origination and characteristics of the mortgage 

loans. Although the specific representations and warranties vary 

among different sales, insurance or guarantee agreements, they 

typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance with loan 

criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien 

securing the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens against 

the property securing the loan, compliance with applicable 

origination laws, and other matters. For more information about 

these loan sales and the related risks that may result in liability 

see the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit Risk Management Œ Liability 

for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ section in this Report. 
We may be required to repurcha
se mortgage loans, indemnify 
the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 

on loans (collectively ﬁrepurchaseﬂ) in the event of a breach of 

contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 

within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of 

the breach. Our loan sale contracts to private investors (non-

GSE) typically contain an additi
onal provision where we would 
only be required to repurchase loans if any such breach is 

deemed to have a material and adverse effect on the value of the 

mortgage loan or to the interests of the investors or interests of 

security holders in the mortgage loan. The time periods specified 

in our mortgage loan sales contracts to respond to repurchase 

requests vary, but are generally 90 days or less. While many 

contracts do not include specific remedies if the applicable time 

period for a response is not met, contracts for mortgage loan 

sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and 

penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to 

repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements under which we 

sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various documents to 

the securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to 

repurchase any mortgage loan for which the required documents 

are not delivered or are defective. In addition, as part of our 

representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we 

typically represent to GSEs and private investors that certain 

loans have mortgage insurance to the extent there are loans that 

have loan to value ratios in excess of 80% that require mortgage 

insurance. To the extent the mortgage insurance is rescinded by 

the mortgage insurer due to a claim of breach of a contractual 

representation or warranty, the lack of insurance may result in a 

repurchase demand from an investor. Upon receipt of a 

repurchase request or a mortgage insurance rescission, we work 

with securitization trusts, investors or insurers to arrive at a 

mutually agreeable resolution. Repurchase demands are typically 

reviewed on an individual loan by loan basis to validate the 

claims made by the securitization trust, investor or insurer, and 

to determine whether a contractually required repurchase event 

occurred. Occasionally, in lieu of conducting a loan level 

evaluation, we may negotiate global settlements in order to 

resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. 

We manage the risk associated with potential repurchases or 

other forms of settlement through our underwriting and quality 

assurance practices and by servicing mortgage loans to meet 

investor and secondary market standards. 
We establish mortgage repurchase liabilities related to 
various representations and warranties that reflect 
management™s estimate of losses for loans for which we could 
have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service 

those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors 

include default expectations, expected investor repurchase 

demands (influenced by current and expected mortgage loan file 

requests and mortgage insurance rescission notices, as well as 

estimated levels of origination defects) and appeals success rates 

(where the investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the 

defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor™s 

applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by 

correspondent and other third party originators, and projected 

loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans are sold 

and continually update our 
liability estimate during the 
remaining life of such loans. Although activity can vary by 

investor, investors may demand repurchase at any time and 

there is often a lag from the date of default to the time we receive 

a repurchase demand. The majority of repurchase demands are 

on loans that default in the first 24 to 36 months following 

origination of the mortgage loan. The most significant portion of 

our repurchases under our representation and warranty 

provisions are attributable to borrower misrepresentations and 

loan underwriting issues. 
To date, repurchase demands from private label MBS have 
been more limited than GSE-guaranteed securities; however, it is 

possible that requests to repurchase mortgage loans in private 

label securitizations may increase in frequency as investors 

explore every possible avenue to recover losses on their 

securities. We evaluate the validity and materiality of any claim 

of breach of representations and warranties in private label MBS 

that is brought to our attention and work with securitization 

trustees to resolve any repurchase requests. Nevertheless, we 

may be subject to legal and other expenses if private label 

securitization trustees or investors choose to commence legal 

proceedings in the event of disagreements. 
The mortgage loan repurchase liability at December 31, 2013, 
represents our best estimate of the probable loss that we may 

incur for various representations and warranties in the 

contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because 

the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses is dependent on 

economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external 

conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, 

the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requires considerable management 

judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs and other 

significant investors to monitor and address their repurchase 

demand practices and concerns. For additional information on 

our repurchase liability, including an adverse impact analysis, 

see the ﬁRisk Management Œ Credit Risk Management Œ Liability 

for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ section and Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments 

to certain financial instruments and to determine fair value 

disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale, 

derivatives, substantially all residential MHFS, certain loans held 

for investment, certain nonmarketable equity investments, 
securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) and 

certain long-term debt instruments are recorded at fair value on 

a recurring basis. Additionally, 
from time to time, we may be 
required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring 

basis, such as certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held for 

investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair 

value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-

or-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. 

Additionally, for certain financial instruments not recorded at 

fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value. 
Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell 
the financial asset or paid to transfer the financial liability in an 

orderly transaction between market participants at the 

measurement date. 
The accounting provisions for fair value measurements 
include a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of assets and 

liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and 

liabilities within the hierarchy is
 based on whether the inputs to 
the valuation methodology used for measurement are observable 

or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or 
market-based information obtained from independent sources, 

while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about market 

data. For additional information on
 fair value levels, see Note 17 

(Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in 

this Report. 
When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the 
use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable 

inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to 

measure fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not 

available, fair value measurement is based upon models that use 

primarily market-based or independently sourced market 

parameters, including interest rate yield curves, prepayment 

speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in 

certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based 

valuation techniques are not readily available, we are required to 

make judgments about assumptions market participants would 

use to estimate fair value. 
The degree of management judgment involved in 
determining the fair value of a fi
nancial instrument is dependent 
upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or 

observable market parameters. For financial instruments with 

quoted market prices or observable market parameters in active 

markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair 

value. When quoted prices and ob
servable data in active markets 
are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to 

estimate fair value. Changes in the market conditions, such as 

reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary 

market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of 

quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. 

When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or 

inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based 

primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active market for a 

financial instrument does not exist, the use of management 

estimates that incorporate current market participant 

expectations of future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate 

risk premium, is acceptable. 
We may use third party pricing services and brokers 
(collectively, ﬁpricing vendorsﬂ) to obtain fair values (ﬁvendor 
Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
pricesﬂ) which are used to either record the price of an 
instrument or to corroborate internally developed prices. We 

have processes in place to approve such vendors to ensure 

information obtained and valuation techniques used are 

appropriate. Once these vendors are approved to provide pricing 

information, we monitor and review the results to ensure the fair 

values are reasonable and in line with market experience with 

similar asset classes. For certain securities, we may use internal 

traders to price instruments. Where vendor prices are utilized for 

recording the price of an instrument, we determine the most 

appropriate and relevant pricing vendor for each security class 

and obtain a price from that particular pricing vendor for each 

security. 
Determination of the fair value 
of financial instruments using 
either vendor prices or internally
 developed prices is subject to 
our internal price validation procedures, which include, but are 

not limited to
, one or a combination of the following procedures: 
     comparison to pricing vendors (for internally developed 
prices) or to other pricing vendors (for vendor developed 

prices); 
variance analysis of prices; 

corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent 

market data such as secondary 
broker quotes and relevant 
benchmark indices; 

review of pricing by Company personnel familiar with 

market liquidity and other market-related conditions; and 

investigation of prices on a specific instrument-by-

instrument basis. 
For instruments where we utilize vendor prices to record the 
price of an instrument, we perform additional procedures. We 

evaluate pricing vendors by compar
ing prices from one vendor to 
prices of other vendors for identical or similar instruments and 

evaluate the consistency of prices to known market transactions 

when determining the level of reliance to be placed on a 

particular pricing vendor. Methodologies employed, controls in 

place and inputs used by third party pricing vendors are subject 

to additional review when such services are provided. This 

review may consist of, in part, obtaining and evaluating control 

reports issued and pricing methodology materials distributed. 
Significant judgment is required to determine whether 
certain assets measured at fair value are included in Level 2 or 

Level 3. When making this judgment, we consider available 

information, including observable market data, indications of 

market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the 

valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities 

in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to 

evaluate the impact of fair 
value adjustments derived from 
weighting both external and inte
rnal indications of value to 
determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. 

Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or Level 3 is based upon 

the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or 

instrument category and judgments are made regarding the 

significance of the Level 3 inputs 
to the instruments™ fair value 
measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered 

significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. 
Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements 
consist of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), certain 
collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), asset-backed securities, 
auction-rate securities, certain derivative contracts such as 
interest rate lock loan commitments on residential MHFS and 

credit default swaps related to collateralized mortgage obligation 

(CMO), CDO and CLO exposures and certain MHFS, certain 

loans, and MSRs. For additional information on how we value 

MSRs refer to the discussion earlier in this section. 
Table 61 presents the summary of the fair value of financial 
instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and the 

amounts measured using significant Level 3 inputs (before 

derivative netting adjustments). 
The fair value of the remaining 
assets and liabilities were measured using valuation 

methodologies involving market-based or market-derived 
information (collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements). 
Table 61: Fair Value Level 3 Summary 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
($ in billions) 
Total 
balance 
Level 3 (1) 
Total 
balance 
Level 3 (1) 
Assets carried 
at fair value 
$  353.1   
37.2 358.7 51.9 As a percentage 
of total assets
 23 % 
2 25 4 Liabilities carried 
at fair value 
$ 22.7 3.7 22.4 3.1 As a percentage of 
total liabilities
 2 %
 * 2 * * Less than 1%. 
(1) Before derivative netting adjustments. 
See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial 
Statements in this Report for a complete discussion on our fair 

valuation of financial instruments, our related measurement 

techniques and the impact to our financial statements. 
Income Taxes 
We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and 

municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we 

operate. Our income tax expense consists of current and deferred 

income tax expense. Current income tax expense represents our 

estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and 

includes income tax expense re
lated to our uncertain tax 

positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the balance 

sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or 

liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the 

book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognizes 

enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they 

occur. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in 
deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. Deferred tax 

assets are recognized subject to management™s judgment that 

realization is ﬁmore likely than not.ﬂ Uncertain tax positions that 

meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are 

measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An 

uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of 

benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% 

likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not 

meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax 
benefits. Our unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax 
positions are reflected in Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. Foreign taxes paid are generally 

applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We 

account for interest and penalties as a component of income tax 

expense. 
The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which 
we operate are complex and subject to different interpretations 
by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. 

In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must 

make judgments and interpretations about the application of 

these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates 

about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income 

in the various tax jurisdictions by the government taxing 

authorities, both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may 

be subjected to review during examination by taxing authorities 

and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions. We 

attempt to resolve these disputes during the tax examination and 

audit process and ultimately through the court systems when 

applicable. 
We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of 
accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and 

their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities on a 

quarterly basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income 

taxes also may result from our own income tax planning and 

from the resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions 

in our estimates may be material to our operating results for any 

given quarter. See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this 
Report for a further description of our provision for income taxes 

and related income tax assets and liabilities. 
Current Accounting Developments 
The following accounting pronouncements have been issued by 
the FASB but are not yet effective: 

    Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2014-04, 
Receivables Œ 
Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors 
(Subtopic 310-40) Œ Reclassification of Residential Real 

Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans upon 

Foreclosure 

ASU 2014-01, Investments Œ Equity Method and Joint 
Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in 

Qualified Affordable Housing Projects 

ASU 2013-11, 
Income Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an 
Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss 

Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit 

Carryforward Exists
; and 
ASU 2013-08, 
Financial Services Œ Investment Companies 
(Topic 946): 
Amendments to the Scope, Measurement and 
Disclosure Requirements
. ASU 2014-04 
clarifies the timing of when a creditor is 
considered to have taken physical possession of residential real 

estate collateral for a consumer mortgage loan, resulting in the 

reclassification of the loan receivable to real estate owned. A 

creditor has taken physical possession of the property when 

either (1) the creditor obtains legal title through foreclosure, or 

(2) the borrower transfers all interests in the property to the 

creditor via a deed in lieu of foreclosure or a similar legal 

agreement. The Update also requires disclosure of the amount of 

foreclosed residential real estate property held by the creditor 

and the recorded investment in re
sidential real estate mortgage 
loans that are in process of foreclosure. These changes are 

effective for us in first quarter 2015 with prospective application. 

Early adoption is permitted. Our adoption of this guidance will 

not have a material effect on our consolidated financial 

statements. 
ASU 2014-01 
amends the criteria a company must meet to elect 
to account for investments in qualified affordable housing 
projects using a method other than the cost or equity methods. If 
the criteria are met, a company is permitted to amortize the 

initial investment cost in proportion to and over the same period 

as the total tax benefits the company expects to receive. The 

amortization of the initial investment cost and tax benefits are to 

be recorded in the income tax expense line. The Update also 

requires new disclosures about all investments in qualified 

affordable housing projects regardless of the accounting method 

used. These changes are effective for us in first quarter 2015 with 

retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are 

evaluating the impact this Update will have on our consolidated 

financial statements. 
ASU 2013-11
 is expected to eliminate diversity in practice as it 
provides guidance on financial statement presentation of an 
unrecognized tax benefit when
 a net operating loss (NOL) 
carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward 

exists. These changes are effective for us in first quarter 2014 

with prospective application applied to all unrecognized tax 

benefits that exist at the effective date. Early adoption and 

retrospective application are permitted. This Update will not 

have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 
ASU 2013-08
 amends the scope, measurement and disclosure 
requirements for investment companies. The Update changes 
criteria companies use to assess whether an entity is an 

investment company. In addition, investment companies must 

measure noncontrolling ownership interests in other investment 

companies at fair value rather than using the equity method of 

accounting. This Update also requires new disclosures, including 

information about changes, if any,
 in an entity™s status as an 
investment company and information about financial support 

provided or contractually required to be provided by an 

investment company to any of its investees. These changes are 

effective for us in first quarter 20
14 with prospective application. 
Early adoption is not permitted. The Update will not have a 

material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 
Forward-Looking Statements 
This document contains ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ within the 
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 

In addition, we may make forward-looking statements in our 
other documents filed or furnished with the SEC, and our 

management may make forward-looking statements orally to 

analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. 

Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as 
ﬁanticipates,ﬂ ﬁintends,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁseeks,ﬂ ﬁbelieves,ﬂ ﬁestimates,ﬂ 

ﬁexpects,ﬂ ﬁtarget,ﬂ ﬁprojects,ﬂ ﬁoutlook,ﬂ ﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁwill,ﬂ 

ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcanﬂ and similar references to future 

periods. In particular, forward-looking statements include, but 

are not limited to, statements we make about: (i) the future 

operating or financial performance of the Company, including 

our outlook for future growth; (ii) our noninterest expense and 

efficiency ratio; (iii) future credit quality and performance, 

including our expectations regarding future loan losses and 

allowance releases; (iv) the appropriateness of the allowance for 

credit losses; (v) our expectations regarding net interest income 

and net interest margin; (vi) loan growth or the reduction or 

mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios; (vii) future capital levels 

and our estimated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III 

capital standards; (viii) the performance of our mortgage 

business and any related exposures; (ix) the expected outcome 

and impact of legal, regulatory and legislative developments, as 

well as our expectations regarding compliance therewith; (x) 

future common stock dividends, common share repurchases and 

other uses of capital; (xi) our targeted range for return on assets 

and return on equity; (xii) the outcome of contingencies, such as 

legal proceedings; and (xiii) the Company™s plans, objectives and 

strategies. 
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts 
but instead represent our current expectations and assumptions 

regarding our business, the economy and other future 

conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the 
future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and 

changes in circumstances that are 
difficult to predict. Our actual 
results may differ materially from those contemplated by the 

forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore, against 
relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are 

neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances 

of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list 

of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important 

factors that could cause actual resu
lts to differ materially from 
those in the forward-looking statements include the following, 
without limitation: 
current and future economic and market conditions, 

including the effects of declines in housing prices, high 

unemployment rates, U.S. fiscal debt, budget and tax 

matters, and the overall slowdown in global economic 

growth;  

our capital and liquidity requirements (including under 

regulatory capital standards, such as the Basel III capital 

standards) and our ability to generate capital internally or 
raise capital on favorable terms; 

financial services reform and other current, pending or 

future legislation or regulation that could have a negative 
effect on our revenue and businesses, including the Dodd-

Frank Act and other legislation and regulation relating to 

bank products and services; 

the extent of our success in our loan modification efforts, as 

well as the effects of regulatory requirements or guidance 

regarding loan modifications; 

the amount of mortgage loan repurchase demands that we 

receive and our ability to satisfy any such demands without 

having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise 

indemnify or reimburse third parties, and the credit quality 

of or losses on such repurchased mortgage loans; 

negative effects relating to our mortgage servicing and 

foreclosure practices, including our obligations under the 

settlement with the Department of Justice and other federal 

and state government entities, as well as changes in industry 

standards or practices, regulatory or judicial requirements, 

penalties or fines, increased servicing and other costs or 

obligations, including loan modification requirements, or 

delays or moratoriums on foreclosures; 

our ability to realize our efficiency ratio target as part of our 

expense management initiatives, including as a result of 

business and economic cyclicality, seasonality, changes in 

our business composition and operating environment, 

growth in our businesses and/or acquisitions, and 

unexpected expenses relating to, among other things, 

litigation and regulatory matters; 

the effect of the current low interest rate environment or 

changes in interest rates on our net interest income, net 

interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage 

servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; 

a recurrence of significant turbulence or disruption in the 

capital or financial markets, which could result in, among 

other things, reduced investor demand for mortgage loans, a 

reduction in the availability of
 funding or increased funding 
costs, and declines in asset values and/or recognition of 

other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our 

investment securities portfolio; 

the effect of a fall in stock market prices on our investment 

banking business and our fee income from our brokerage, 

asset and wealth management businesses; 

reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, 

penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory 

violations and legal actions; 

a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems 

or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors or 

other service providers, including as a result of cyber 

attacks; 

the effect of changes in the level of checking or savings 

account deposits on our funding costs and net interest 

margin; 
fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board; 

and 
the other risk factors and uncertainties described under 

ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ in this Report. 
           
    Forward-Looking Statements 
(continued) 
In addition to the above factors, we also caution that the 
amount and timing of any future common stock dividends or 
repurchases will depend on the earnings, cash requirements and 

financial condition of the Company, market conditions, capital 

requirements (including under Basel capital standards), common 

stock issuance requirements, applicable law and regulations 

(including federal securities laws and federal banking 

regulations), and other factors deemed relevant by the 

Company™s Board of Directors, and may be subject to regulatory 

approval or conditions. 
For more information about factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to our 
reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 

including the discussion under ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ in this Report, as 

filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available 

on its website at
 www.sec.gov. 
Any forward-looking statement made by us speaks only as of 
the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause 

our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it 

is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no 

obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, 

whether as a result of new information, future developments or 

otherwise, except as may be required by law. 
Risk Factors 
An investment in the Company involves risk, including the 

possibility that the value of the investment could fall 

substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the 

investment could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below 

risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and 

condition, and the value of, and return on, an investment in the 

Company.  
RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMY, FINANCIAL 
MARKETS, INTEREST RATES AND LIQUIDITY 
As one of the largest lenders in the U.S. and a provider 
of financial products and services to consumers and 

businesses across the U.S. and internationally, our 

financial results have been, and will continue to be, 

materially 
affected by general economic conditions, 
particularly unemployment levels and home prices in 

the U.S., and a deterioration in economic conditions or 

in the financial markets may materially adversely affect 

our lending and other businesses and our financial 

results and condition.
  We generate revenue from the interest 
and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services 

we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings 

comes from the net interest income and fee income that we earn 

from our consumer and commercial lending and banking 

businesses, including our mortgage banking business where we 

currently are the largest mortgage originator in the U.S. These 

businesses have been, and will continue to be, materially affected 

by the state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment 

levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has 

continued to gradually improve from the depressed levels of 

2008 and early 2009, economic growth has been slow and 

uneven. In addition, the negative effects and continued 

uncertainty stemming from U.S. fiscal and political matters, 

including concerns about deficit levels, taxes and U.S. debt 

ratings, have impacted and may continue to impact the 

continuing global economic recovery. For example, the U.S. 

government experienced a temporary closure in October 2013 

due to the government™s inability to reach a budget agreement, 

and, although a temporary agreement was reached, the risk of 

future closures or even a U.S. govern
ment default exists if further 
agreements cannot be achieved. A prolonged period of slow 

growth in the global economy, particularly in the U.S., or any 
deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the 

financial markets resulting from the above matters or any other 

events or factors that may 
disrupt or dampen the global 
economic recovery
, could materially adversely affect our 
financial results and condition. 
The improvement in the U.S. economy as well as higher home 
prices contributed to our strengthened credit performance and 

allowed us to release amounts from our allowance for credit 

losses, however there is no guarantee we will have allowance 

releases in the future. If unemployment levels worsen or if home 
prices fall we would expect to
 incur elevated charge-offs and 
provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit 

losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer 

loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially 

for those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries 

that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. The 

ability of these and other borrowers to repay their loans may 

deteriorate, causing us, as one of the largest commercial lenders 

and the largest CRE lender in the U.S., to incur significantly 

higher credit losses. In addition, weak or deteriorating economic 

conditions make it more challenging for us to increase our 

consumer and commercial loan port
folios by making loans to 
creditworthy borrowers at attrac
tive yields. Although we have 
significant capacity to add loans to our balance sheet, loan 

demand, especially consumer loan demand, has been soft 

resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower 

yielding liquid assets on our balance sheet. If economic 

conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens 

and unemployment rises, which also would likely result in a 

decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending, the 

demand for our credit products, including our mortgages, may 

fall, reducing our interest and noninterest income and our 

earnings. 
A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which 
may erode consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or 

increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely 

affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including 
our investment advisory, mutual fund, securities brokerage, 

wealth management, and investment banking businesses. 
In 2013, approximately 25% of our revenue was fee income, which 

included trust and investment fees, card fees and other fees. We 

earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing 

brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth 
management services. Because investment management fees are 
often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in 

the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. 

Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of 

investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our 

brokerage business. The U.S. stock market experienced all-time 

highs in 2013 and there is no guarantee that those price levels 

will continue. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable 

financial markets also can negatively affect our debt and equity 

underwriting and advisory businesses, as well as our trading and 

venture capital businesses. Any deterioration in global financial 

markets and economies, including as a result of any international 

political unrest or disturbances, may adversely affect the 

revenues and earnings of our international operations, 

particularly our global financial institution and correspondent 

banking services. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Asset/Liability Managementﬂ and ﬁŒ Credit Risk Managementﬂ 

sections in this Report. 
Changes in interest rates and financial market values 
could reduce our net interest income and earnings, 

including as a result of recognizing losses or OTTI on 

the securities that we hold in our portfolio or trade for 

our customers. 
Our net interest income is the interest we earn 
on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the 

interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, 

and other liabilities. Net interest income is a measure of both our 

net interest margin Œ the difference
 between the yield we earn on 
our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other 

sources of funding Œ and the amount of earning assets we hold. 

Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount or mix 

of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income 

and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can affect our net 

interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and 

our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response 

to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the 

other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our 

liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they 

may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. When 

interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the 

yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to 

contract until the asset yield increases. 
The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our 
yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form 

of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted 

above, if the economy worsens we may see lower demand for 

loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our net interest 

income and yield. In addition, our net interest income and net 

interest margin can be negatively affected by a prolonged low 

interest rate environment, which as noted below is currently 

being experienced as a result of economic conditions and FRB 

monetary policies, as it may result in us holding short-term lower 

yielding loans and securities on our balance sheet, particularly if 

we are unable to replace the maturing higher yielding assets, 

including the loans in our non-strategic and liquidating loan 

portfolio, with similar higher yielding assets. Increases in 

interest rates, however, may negatively affect loan demand and 
could result in higher credit lo
sses as borrowers may have more 
difficulty making higher interest payments. As described below, 

changes in interest rates also affect our mortgage business, 

including the value of our MSRs. 
Changes in the slope of the ﬁyield curveﬂ Œ or the spread 
between short-term and long-ter
m interest rates Œ could also 
reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is 

upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-

term rates. Because our liabilities 
tend to be shorter in duration 
than our assets, when the yield curve flattens, as is the case in the 

current interest rate environment, or even inverts, our net 

interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases 

relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. 
The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to U.S.-
denominated interest rates such as the federal funds rate while 

the interest we pay on our debt may be based on international 

rates such as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without 

a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we might earn less on our 

loans without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This 

could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. 
We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on 
our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on 

assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of 

interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge 

some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We 

also rely on the ﬁnatural hedgeﬂ that our mortgage loan 

originations and servicing rights can provide. 
We generally do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There 
is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our 

net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, 

especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different 

than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall 

faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, 

we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as 

investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance 

our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take 

other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such 

actions. 
We hold securities in our investment securities portfolio, 
including U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and federal 

agency MBS, securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions, 

residential and commercial MBS, corporate debt securities, other 

asset-backed securities and marketable equity securities, 

including securities relating to our venture capital activities. We 

analyze securities held in our investment securities portfolio for 

OTTI on at least a quarterly basis. The process for determining 

whether impairment is other th
an temporary usually requires 
difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial 

performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the 

security in order to assess the probability of receiving contractual 

principal and interest payments on the security. Because of 

changing economic and market conditions, as well as credit 

ratings, affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying 

collateral, we may be required to recognize OTTI in future 

periods. Our net income also is exposed to changes in interest 

rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and 

commodity prices in connection with our trading activities, 

which are conducted primarily to
 accommodate our customers in 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
the management of their market price risk, as well as when we 
take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from 

differences between financial instruments and markets. The 

securities held in these activities are carried at fair value with 

realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest 

income. As part of our business to support our customers, we 

trade public securities and these securities also are subject to 

market fluctuations with gains and losses recognized in net 

income when realized and period
ically include OTTI charges. 
Although we have processes in place to measure and monitor the 

risks associated with our trading activities, including stress 

testing and hedging strategies, there can be no assurance that 

our processes and strategies will be effective in avoiding losses 

that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
The value of our public and private equity investments can 
fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Certain of these investments 

are carried under the cost or equity method, while others are 

carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in 

earnings. Earnings from our equity investments may be volatile 

and hard to predict, and may have a significant effect on our 

earnings from period to period. When, and if, we recognize gains 

may depend on a number of factors, including general economic 

and market conditions, the prospects of the companies in which 

we invest, when a company goes public, the size of our position 

relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any 

resale restrictions. 
Our venture capital investments could result in significant 
OTTI losses for those investments carried under the cost or 

equity method. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of 

factors, including the then current market value of each 

investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine 

there is OTTI for an investment, we write-down the carrying 

value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The 

amount of this charge could be significant. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Asset/Liability Management Œ Interest Rate Riskﬂ, ﬁŒ Market 

Risk Œ Equity Investmentsﬂ, and ﬁŒ Market Risk Œ Trading 
Activitiesﬂ and the ﬁBalance Sheet Analysis Œ Investment 

Securitiesﬂ sections in this Report and Note 5 (Investment 

Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
Effective liquidity management, which ensures that we 
can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit 

maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments, 

including principal and interest payments on our debt, 

efficiently under both normal operating conditions and 

other unpredictable circumstances of industry or 

financial market stress, is essential for the operation of 

our business, and our financial results and condition 

could be materially adversely affected if we do not 

effectively manage our liquidity. 
Our liquidity is essential 
for the operation of our business. We primarily rely on bank 

deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the 

loans we make and the operation of our business. Core customer 

deposits, which include noninter
est-bearing deposits, interest-
bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and 

other savings, and certain foreign deposits, have historically 

provided us with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-
cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, our sources of 

liquidity include 
investments in our securities portfolio, our 
ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to 

pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the 

FHLB and the FRB, and our ability to raise funds in domestic 

and international money through capital markets. 
Our liquidity and our ability to fund and run our business 
could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions 

and factors, including financial and credit market disruption and 

volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial 

markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial 

crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of 

customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or our 

inability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Market 

disruption and volatility could impact our credit spreads, which 

are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury 

securities, or other benchmark securities, of the same maturity 

that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in 

interest rates and our credit spreads could significantly increase 

our funding costs. Other conditions and factors that could 

materially adversely affect our liquidity and funding include a 

lack of market or customer confidence in the Company or 

negative news about the Company or the financial services 

industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits 

and/or negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets; 

our inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and, as 

described below, reductions in one or
 more of our credit ratings. 
Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by 

events over which we have little or no control. While market 

conditions have continued to im
prove since the financial crisis, 
there can be no assurance that significant disruption and 

volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. For 

example, the U.S. government™s temporary closure in October 

2013 and continued concerns over the government™s ability to 

reach a budget agreement caused financial market volatility. In 

addition, concerns regarding the potential failure to raise the 

U.S. government debt limit and any associated downgrade of 

U.S. government debt ratings may cause uncertainty and 

volatility as well. A failure to raise the U.S. debt limit in the 

future and/or additional downgrades of the sovereign debt 

ratings of the U.S. government or the debt ratings of related 

institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, as well as other fiscal 

or political events could, in addition to causing economic and 

financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect the 

market value of the U.S. government securities that we hold, the 

availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing, and 

our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well 

as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our 

business and our financial results and condition. 
As noted above, we rely heavily on bank deposits for our 
funding and liquidity. We compete with banks and other 

financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors 

raise the rates they pay on deposits our funding costs may 

increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing 

deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more 

expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our 

net interest margin and net in
terest income. Checking and 
savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits 
may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, 
such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return 

tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and 

into other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source 

of funds, increasing our funding costs and negatively affecting 

our liquidity. 
If we are unable to continue to fund our assets through 
customer bank deposits or 
access capital markets on favorable 
terms 
or if we suffer an increase in our borrowing costs or 
otherwise fail to manage our liquidity effectively, our liquidity, 

net interest margin, financial results and condition may be 

materially adversely affected. As we did during the financial 

crisis, we may also need, or be required by our regulators, to 

raise 
additional capital through the issuance of common stock, 
which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or 

reduce or even eliminate our common stock dividend to preserve 

capital or in order to raise additional capital
. For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Asset/Liability Managementﬂ section in this Report. 
Adverse changes in our credit ratings could have a 
material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, 

financial results and condition. 
 Our borrowing costs and 
ability to obtain funding are influenced by our credit ratings. 

Reductions in one or more of our credit ratings could adversely 

affect our ability to borrow funds and raise the costs of our 

borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business 

counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other 

actions that could adversely affect our ability to raise funding. 

Credit ratings and credit ratings agencies™ outlooks are based on 

the ratings agencies™ analysis of many quantitative and 

qualitative factors, such as our capital adequacy, liquidity, asset 

quality, business mix, the level and quality of our earnings, rating 

agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent of 

federal financial assistance or support, and other rating agency 

specific criteria. In addition to credit ratings, our borrowing costs 

are affected by various other external factors, including market 

volatility and concerns or perceptions about the financial 

services industry generally. 
On October 8, 2013, Fitch Ratings affirmed all the ratings of 
the Parent and its rated subsidiaries. On October 25, 2013, 

Standard & Poor™s Ratings Services (S&P) affirmed all the ratings 

of the Parent and its rated subsidiaries, and on 

November 14, 2013, Moody™s Investors Service (Moody™s) 

confirmed all of the ratings of the Parent and its rated 

subsidiaries. This ratings confirmation by Moody™s followed 

completion of their review regarding whether to continue 

incorporating the possibility of federal support in ratings 

applicable to certain bank holding companies in light of recent 

regulatory developments related to the Title II Orderly 

Liquidation Authority of the Dodd-Frank Act. Moody™s decided 
to eliminate any assumption of federal support for the impacted 

holding companies, including the Parent. However, Moody™s also 

concluded that the same regulatory developments were likely to 

reduce the severity of losses for bank holding company creditors 

in the event of default, reflecting the potential benefits of a more 

orderly resolution of bank holding companies and their related 

banks. The net result of these offsetting conclusions was the 
confirmation of our ratings. S&P is likewise reviewing their 

support assumptions for certain bank holding companies in light 

of the same regulatory developments. That review is ongoing and 

S&P has not specified a timeframe for completion of their review. 

There can be no assurance that we will maintain our credit 

ratings and outlooks and that cr
edit ratings downgrades in the 
future would not materially affect our ability to borrow funds and 

borrowing costs. 
Downgrades in our credit ratings also may trigger additional 
collateral or funding obligations which could negatively affect 

our liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent 

features in certain of our derivative contracts. Although a one or 

two notch downgrade in our current credit ratings would not be 

expected to trigger a material increase in our collateral or 

funding obligations, a more severe credit rating downgrade of 

our long-term and short-term credit ratings could increase our 

collateral or funding obligations and the effect on our liquidity 

could be material. For information regarding additional 

collateral and funding obligations required of certain derivative 

instruments in the event our credit ratings were to fall below 

investment grade, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. 
We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for 
liquidity, and federal and state law can limit those 

dividends.
 Wells Fargo & Company, the parent holding 
company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from its 

subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its funding and 

liquidity from dividends and other distributions from its 

subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends and distributions, 

among other things, to pay dividends on our common and 

preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal 

and state laws limit the amount of dividends and distributions 

that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries, including 

our broker-dealer subsidiaries, may pay to our parent holding 
company. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets 

upon a subsidiary™s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the 

prior claims of the subsidiary™s creditors. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRegulation and 
Supervision Œ Dividend Restrictionsﬂ and ﬁŒ Holding Company 

Structureﬂ sections in our 2013 Form 10-K and to Note 3 (Cash, 
Loan and Dividend Restrictions
) and Note 26 (Regulatory and 
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL REGULATORY 
REFORM AND OTHER LEGISLATION AND 

REGULATIONS 
Enacted legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-
Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or 

regulation, could require us to change certain of our 

business practices, reduce our revenue and earnings, 

impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely 

affect our business operations and/or competitive 

position.
  Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many 
of our nonbank subsidiaries such as those related to our 

brokerage and mutual fund businesses, are subject to significant 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the 
applicable laws of the various jurisdictions outside of the U.S. 

where we conduct business. These regulations protect 

depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers, 

investors and the banking and financial system as a whole, not 

necessarily our stockholders. Economic, market and political 

conditions during the past few years have led to a significant 

amount of new legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad, 

as well as heightened expectations and scrutiny of financial 

services companies from banking regulators. These laws and 

regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and 

the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our 

ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to 

enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue 

in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on 

us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial 

services industry, and adversely affect our business operations or 

have other negative consequences. 
On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, the most significant 
financial reform legislation since the 1930s, became law. The 

Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, (i) established the 

Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk 

posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced 

FRB regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, on 

certain large, interconnected bank holding companies such as 

Wells Fargo and systemically significant nonbanking firms 

intended to promote financial stability; (ii) creates a liquidation 

framework for the resolution of covered financial companies, the 

costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving 

covered financial companies; (iii) makes significant changes to 

the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and 

activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting proprietary 

trading and private fund investment activities, subject to certain 

exceptions; (iv) creates a new framework for the regulation of 

over-the-counter derivatives and new regulations for the 
securitization market and strengthens the regulatory oversight of 

securities and capital markets by the SEC; (v) established the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the FRB, 

which has sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new 

federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation; 

(vi) may limit the existing pre-emption of state laws with respect 

to the application of such laws to national banks, makes federal 

pre-emption no longer applicable to operating subsidiaries of 

national banks, and gives state authorities, under certain 

circumstances, the ability to enforce state laws and federal 

consumer regulations against national banks; (vii) provides for 

increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (viii) 

revised the FDIC's assessment base for deposit insurance by 

changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities 

to a risk-based system based on total assets; (ix) phases out over 

three years beginning January 20
13 the Tier 1 capital treatment 
of trust preferred securities; (x) 
permitted banks to pay interest 
on business checking accounts beginning on July 1, 2011; (xi) 

authorized the FRB under the Durbin Amendment to adopt 

regulations that limit debit card
 interchange fees received by 
debit card issuers; and (xii) includes several corporate 

governance and executive compensation provisions and 
requirements, including mandating an advisory stockholder vote 

on executive compensation. 
The Dodd-Frank Act and many of its provisions became 
effective in July 2010 and July 2011. However, a number of its 

provisions still require final rulemaking, guidance, and 

interpretation by regulatory authorities. Accordingly, in many 

respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its 

effects on the U.S. financial system and the Company still remain 

uncertain. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act, including current 

and future rules implementing its provisions and the 

interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, 

require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our 

ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our 

capital requirements and impose additional assessments and 

costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our business 

operations and have other negative consequences. 
Our consumer businesses, including our mortgage, credit 
card and other consumer lending and non-lending businesses, 
may be negatively affected by the activities of the CFPB, which 

has broad rulemaking powers and supervisory authority over 

consumer financial products and services. Although the full 

impact of the CFPB on our businesses is uncertain, the CFPB™s 

activities may increase our compliance costs and require changes 

in our business practices as a result of new regulations and 

requirements which could limit or negatively affect the products 

and services that we currently offer our customers. For example, 

in 2013, the CFPB issued a number of new rules impacting 

residential mortgage lending practices. As a result of greater 

regulatory scrutiny of our consumer businesses, we also may 

become subject to more or expanded regulatory examinations 

and/or investigations, which also could result in increased costs 

and harm to our reputation in the event of a failure to comply 

with the increased regulatory requirements. 
The Dodd-Frank Act™s proposed prohibitions or limitations 
on proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, 

known as the ﬁVolcker Rule,ﬂ also may reduce our revenue and 

earnings, although proprietary trading has not been significant 

to our financial results. Rules to implement the requirements of 

the Volcker Rule were first proposed in 2011, and final rules were 

issued in December 2013. Pursuant to an order of the FRB, 

banking entities are required to make good faith planning efforts 

to come into compliance with the Volcker Rule™s restrictions by 

July 21, 2015, subject to potential limited further extensions of 

the compliance period that may be granted at the discretion of 

the FRB. Companies with $50 billion or more in trading assets 

and liabilities such as Wells Fargo will be required to report 

trading metrics beginning June 30, 2014. Under the final rule, 

Wells Fargo will also be subject to enhanced compliance program 

requirements. Because we continue to evaluate the final rule and 

assess its requirements, the ulti
mate impact of the final Volcker 
Rule on our investment activiti
es, including our venture capital 

business, is uncertain. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes changes on the ABS 
markets by requiring sponsors of ABS to hold at least a 5% 

ownership stake in the ABS. Exemptions from the requirement 

include qualified residential mortgages and FHA/VA loans. 

Federal regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement 

this credit risk retention requirement, which have only included 
limited exemptions. If adopted as written, the current proposal 
may impact our ability to issue certain ABS or otherwise 

participate in various securitization transactions. 
Money market mutual fund reform is also currently being 
evaluated. The Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) 

released for public comment proposed recommendations for new 

SEC regulations to address the perceived risks that money 

market mutual funds may pose to the financial stability of the 

United States. These proposed recommendations include 

implementation of floating net asset value requirements, 

redemption holdback provisions, 
and capital buffer requirements 
and would be in addition to regulatory changes with respect to 

money market mutual funds made by the SEC in 2010. The 

FSOC has not yet adopted final recommendations. Following the 

FSOC™s proposals, the SEC issued its own proposed regulatory 

changes that would, among other things, require a floating net 

asset value for prime institutional money market funds, or 

liquidity fees and redemption gates during periods of stress for 

non-governmental money market funds, or a combination of 

both measures. The SEC has not issued final regulations. Until 
final regulations are adopted, the ultimate effect on our business 

and financial results remains uncertain. 
Federal banking regulators also continue to implement the 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act addressing the risks to the 
financial system posed by the failure of a systemically important 

financial institution. Pursuant to rules adopted by the FRB and 

the FDIC, Wells Fargo has prepared and filed a resolution plan, a 

so called ﬁliving will,ﬂ that would facilitate our resolution in the 

event of material distress or failure. If the FRB and FDIC 

determine that our plan is deficient, the Dodd-Frank Act 

authorizes the FRB and FDIC to impose more stringent capital, 

leverage or liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth or 

activities until we submit a plan remedying the deficiencies. If 

the FRB and FDIC ultimately determine that we have been 

unable to remedy the deficiencies, they could order us to divest 

assets or operations in order to facilitate our orderly resolution 

in the event of our material distress or failure. Our national bank 

subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., is also required to prepare 

and submit a resolution plan 
to the FDIC under separate 
regulatory authority. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes an orderly liquidation 
process which allows for the appointment of the FDIC as a 

receiver of a systemically important financial institution that is in 

default or in danger of default. The FDIC has issued rules to 

implement its orderly liquidation authority and recently released 

a notice regarding a proposed resolution strategy, known as 

ﬁsingle point of entry,ﬂ designed to resolve a large financial 

institution in a manner that would, among other things, impose 

losses on shareholders and creditors in accordance with statutory 

priorities, without imposing a cost on U.S. taxpayers. 

Implementation of the strategy would require that institutions 

maintain a sufficient amount of available equity and unsecured 

debt to absorb losses and recapitalize operating subsidiaries. 
Other future regulatory initiati
ves that could significantly 
affect our business include proposals to reform the housing 

finance market in the United States. These proposals, among 

other things, consider winding down the GSEs and reducing or 

eliminating over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing 
mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as 

the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, 

and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the 

maximum size of a loan that the 
GSEs can guarantee, phasing in 
a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, 

improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability 

and transparency in the securitization process. Congress also 

may consider the adoption of legislation to reform the mortgage 

financing market in an effort to assist borrowers experiencing 

difficulty in making mortgage payments or refinancing their 

mortgages. The extent and timing of any regulatory reform or the 

adoption of any legislation regarding the GSEs and/or the home 

mortgage market, as well as any effect on the Company™s 

business and financial results, are uncertain. 
Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, 
also could significantly change our regulatory environment and 

increase our cost of doing business, limit the activities we may 

pursue or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings 

associations, credit unions, and other financial services 

companies, and have a material adverse effect on our financial 

results and condition. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ 
section in this Report and the ﬁRegulation and Supervisionﬂ 

section in our 2013 Form 10-K. 
Bank regulations, including Basel capital and liquidity 
standards and FRB guidelines and rules, may require 

higher capital and liquidity levels, limiting our ability to 
pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common 

stock, invest in our business or provide loans to our 

customers
. Federal banking regulators continually monitor the 
capital position of banks and bank holding companies. In 

December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 

(BCBS) finalized a set of international guidelines for determining 

regulatory capital known as Basel III. These guidelines are 

designed to address many of the weaknesses identified in the 

previous Basel standards and in the banking sector as 

contributing to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 by, among 

other things, increasing minimum capital requirements, 

increasing the quality of capital, increasing the risk coverage of 

the capital framework, increasing liquidity buffers, and 

increasing standards for the supervisory review process and 

public disclosure. When fully phased in, the Basel III guidelines 

require bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of 

Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) to risk-weighted assets of at least 

7.0%. The BCBS has also proposed certain liquidity coverage and 

funding ratios. The BCBS liquidity framework was initially 

proposed in 2010 and included a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) 

to measure the stock of high-quality liquid assets to total net cash 
outflows over the next 30 calendar day period. The BCBS 

recently published revisions to the LCR, including revisions to 

the definitions of high quality liquid assets and net cash outflows. 

As originally proposed, the LCR would be introduced on 

January 1, 2015, but the revisions provided for phased-in 

implementation over a four year period beginning 

January 1, 2015, with full phase-in on January 1, 2019. 
In June 2011, the BCBS also proposed additional CET1 
surcharge requirements for global systemically important banks 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
(G-SIBs) ranging from 1.0% to 3.5% depending on the bank™s 
systemic importance to be determined based on certain factors. 
This new capital surcharge, which would be phased in beginning 

in January 2016 and become fully effective on January 1, 2019, 

would be in addition to the Basel III 7.0% CET1 requirement 

proposed in December 2010. The Financial Stability Board 

(FSB), in an updated list published in November 2013 based on 

year-end 2012 data, identified the Company as one of 29 G-SIBs 
and provisionally determined that the Company™s surcharge 

would be 1%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs and their 

required surcharges prior to impl
ementation based on additional 
or future data. U.S. regulatory authorities have been considering the BCBS 
capital guidelines and related proposals, and in July 2013, U.S. 

banking regulators approved final and interim final rules to 

implement the Basel III capital guidelines for U.S. banks. These 

final capital rules, among other things: 
    
   implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory 
capital reforms including those that revise the definition of 

capital, increase minimum capital ratios, and introduce a 

minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation 

buffer of 2.5% (for a total minimum CET 1 ratio of 7.0%) and 

a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would 

be imposed by regulators at their discretion if it is 

determined that a period of excessive credit growth is 

contributing to an increase in systemic risk; 

require a Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets 

ratio of 4% and introduce, for large and internationally 

active bank holding companies (BHCs), a Tier 1 

supplementary leverage ratio of 3% that incorporates off-

balance sheet exposures; 

revise ﬁBasel Iﬂ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to 

enhance risk sensitivity under a standardized approach; 

modify the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules for 

calculating risk-weighted assets to implement Basel III; 

deduct certain assets from CET1, such as deferred tax assets 

that could not be realized through net operating loss carry-

backs, significant investments in non-consolidated financial 
entities, and mortgage servicing 
rights, to the extent any one 
category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the 

aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1; 

eliminate the accumulated other comprehensive income or 

loss filter that applies under risk-based capital rules over a 
five-year phase in period beginning in 2014; and 

comply with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the 

reliance on external credit ratings. 
The final capital rules became effective for Wells Fargo in 
January 2014, with certain provisions subject to phase-in 
periods. The final rules did not implement the capital surcharge 

proposals for G-SIBs or the proposed Basel III liquidity 

standards. Federal banking regulators did issue a proposal that 

has not yet been finalized that would enhance the supplementary 

leverage ratio requirements provided in the final capital rules for 

large BHCs like Wells Fargo and their insured depository 

institutions. The proposal would be effective January 1, 2018 and 

would require covered BHCs to maintain a supplementary 

leverage ratio of at least 5% to avoid restrictions on capital 
distributions and discretionary bonus payments and require that 

its insured depository institutions maintain a supplementary 

leverage ratio of 6% to be considered well capitalized. Federal 

banking regulators have indicated additional changes to the 

proposal could be made in light of changes to the Basel III 

leverage framework recently finalized by the BCBS. Federal 

banking regulators have also recently proposed rules 

implementing the Basel III LCR. The U.S. proposal to implement 

the LCR was substantially similar to the LCR agreed to by the 

BCBS, but differed in some respects that may be viewed as a 

stricter version of the LCR, such as proposing a more aggressive 

phase-in period. 
The FRB has indicated it is in the process of considering new 
rules to implement the G-SIB capital surcharge, to address the 
amount of equity and unsecured debt certain large BHCs must 

hold in order to facilitate their orderly resolution, and to address 

risks related to banking organizations that are substantially 

reliant on short-term wholesale funding. The ultimate impact of 

all of these finalized and proposed or contemplated rules on our 

capital and liquidity requirements will depend on final 

rulemaking and regulatory interpretation of the rules as we, 

along with our regulatory authorities, apply the final rules during 

the implementation process. 
As part of its obligation to impose enhanced capital and risk-
management standards on large financial firms pursuant to the 

Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB issued a final capital plan rule that 

became effective December 30, 2011. The final capital plan rule 

requires top-tier BHCs, including the Company, to submit 
annual capital plans for review and to obtain regulatory approval 

before making capital distributions. There can be no assurance 

that the FRB would respond favorably to the Company™s future 

capital plans. The FRB has also finalized a number of regulations 

implementing enhanced prudential requirements for large BHCs 

like Wells Fargo regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk 

and liquidity management, and stress testing. The FRB has also 

proposed, but not yet finalized, remediation requirements for 

large BHCs experiencing financial distress that would restrict 

capital distributions upon the occu
rrence of capital, stress test, 
or risk and liquidity management triggers. 
The Basel standards and FRB regulatory capital and liquidity 
requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our 

capital, including common stock dividends and stock 

repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or 

liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory 

capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to 

liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or 

investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial 

results. Although not currently anticipated, the proposed Basel 

capital requirements and/or our regulators may require us to 

raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common 

stock may dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁCapital Managementﬂ and 
ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ sections in this Report and the ﬁRegulation 

and Supervisionﬂ section of our 2013 Form 10-K. 
FRB policies, including policies on interest rates, can 
significantly affect business and economic conditions 

and our financial results and condition. 
The FRB 
regulates the supply of money in the United States. Its policies 
determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and 

investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, 

both of which affect our net interest income and net interest 

margin. The FRB™s interest rate policies also can materially affect 

the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt 

securities and MSRs. In addition, its policies can affect our 

borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to 

repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our 

control and can be hard to predict. As a result of the FRB™s 

concerns regarding, among other things, continued slow 

economic growth, the FRB recently reaffirmed that it intends to 

keep the target range for the federal funds rate near zero until 

the unemployment rate falls to at least 6.5% and inflation 

expectations remain within FRB targets. However, the FRB has 

indicated that it will consider other factors, such as additional 

labor market and financial market conditions, before deciding to 

increase the federal funds target rate. Although the amount of 

monthly purchases has been tapered recently, the FRB also has 

continued its purchases of U.S. government and mortgage-

backed securities and may take further actions in an effort to 

reduce or maintain low long-term in
terest rates. As noted above, 
a declining or low interest rate environment and a flattening 

yield curve which may result from the FRB™s actions could 

negatively affect our net interest
 income and net interest margin 
as it may result in us holding lower yielding loans and 

investment securities on our balance sheet. 
RISKS RELATED TO CREDIT AND OUR MORTGAGE 
BUSINESS 
As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., increased 
credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in 

economic conditions, could require us to increase our 

provision for credit losses and allowance for credit 

losses 
and could have a material adverse effect on our 
results of operations and financial condition.
  When we 
loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the 

risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of 

the largest lenders in the U.S., the credit performance of our loan 

portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. 

As noted above, if the current economic environment were to 

deteriorate, more of our customers may have difficulty in 

repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a 

higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We 

reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a 

charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our 

assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio 

(including unfunded credit commitments). The process for 

determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our 

financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective 

and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of 

economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of 

our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the 

allowance because of changing economic conditions, including 

falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors. 

For example, the regulatory environment or external factors, 
such as natural disasters, also can influence recognition of credit 

losses in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses. 
Reflecting the continued improved credit performance in our 
loan portfolios, our provision for credit losses was $2.2 billion 

and $1.8 billion less than net 
charge-offs in 2013 and 2012, 
respectively, which had a positive effect on our earnings. Given 

current favorable conditions, we continue to expect future 

allowance releases, absent a significant deterioration in the 

economy. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses 

was appropriate at December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that 

it will be sufficient to cover futur
e credit losses, especially if 
housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of 

significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be 

required to build reserves in future periods, which would reduce 

our earnings. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Credit Risk Managementﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policies Œ 

Allowance for Credit Lossesﬂ sections in this Report. 
We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses 

to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, 

industry segment, borrower type, or location of the 

borrower or collateral.
  Our credit risk and credit losses can 
increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in 

the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may 

be uniquely or disproportionate
ly affected by economic or 
market conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration 

risk in 2009 and 2010 when we incurred greater than expected 

losses in our residential real estate loan portfolio due to a 

housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in 

residential real estate values in many markets, including the 

Central Valley California market and several Southern California 

metropolitan statistical areas. As California is our largest 

banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real 

estate values and underlying economic conditions in those 

markets or elsewhere in California could result in materially 

higher credit losses. In addition, deterioration in macro-

economic conditions generally across the country could result in 

materially higher credit losses, including for our residential real 

estate loan portfolio. We may experience higher delinquencies 

and higher loss rates as our consumer real estate secured lines of 

credit reach their contractual en
d of draw period and begin to 

amortize. Additionally, we may ex
perience higher delinquencies 
and higher loss rates as borrowers in our consumer Pick-a-Pay 

portfolio reach their recast trigger, particularly if interest rates 

increase significantly which may cause more borrowers to 

experience a payment increase of more than 7.5% upon recast. 
We are currently the largest CRE lender in the U.S. A 
deterioration in economic conditions that negatively affects the 

business performance of our CRE borrowers, including increases 

in interest rates and/or declines in commercial property values, 

could result in materially higher credit losses and have a material 

adverse effect on our financial results and condition. 
Challenging economic conditions in Europe have increased 
our foreign credit risk. Although our foreign loan exposure 

represented only approximately 6% of our total consolidated 

outstanding loans and 3% of our total assets at 

December 31, 2013, continued European economic difficulties 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
could indirectly have a material adverse effect on our credit 
performance and results of operations and financial condition to 

the extent it negatively affects the U.S. economy and/or our 

borrowers who have foreign operations.  
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Credit Risk Managementﬂ section and Note 6 (Loans and 

Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
We may incur losses on loans, securities and other 
acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially greater 

than reflected in our fair value adjustments.
 We accounted for the Wachovia merger under the purchase method 

of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of 

Wachovia at fair value. All PCI loans acquired in the merger were 

recorded at fair value based on the present value of their 

expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal 

credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models using 

assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We 

may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these 

loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-

merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their 

expected cash flows Œ the ﬁnonaccretable differenceﬂ Œ is 
available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to 

increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision 

expense because of subsequent additional credit deterioration in 

these loans. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁCritical Accounting 
Policies Œ Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loansﬂ and ﬁRisk 

Management Œ Credit Risk Manageme
ntﬂ sections in this Report.  
Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 
quarter to quarter, including as a result of changes in 

interest rates and the value of our MSRs and MHFS, 

and we rely on the GSEs to purchase our conforming 

loans to reduce our credit risk and provide liquidity to 

fund new mortgage loans.
 We were the largest mortgage 
originator and residential mortgage servicer in the U.S. as of 

December 31, 2013, and we earn revenue from fees we receive for 

originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. As 

a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizeable 

portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan 

Œ collect principal, interest and escrow amounts Œ for a fee. We 

acquire MSRs when we keep the servicing rights after we sell or 

securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the 

servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. 

We initially measure and carry all our residential MSRs using the 

fair value measurement method. Fair value is the present value 

of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a 

number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood 

of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect 

prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates 

fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage 

loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of 

prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. 

Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any 

decrease in fair value reduces earn
ings in the period in which the 
decrease occurs. We also measure at fair value MHFS for which 
an active secondary market and readily available market prices 

exist. In addition, we measure at fair value certain other interests 

we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. 

Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these 

MHFS and other interests may be 
negatively affected by changes 
in interest rates. For example, if market interest rates increase 

relative to the yield on these MHFS and other interests, their fair 

value may fall. 
When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends 
to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. 

Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase 

through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage 

originations usually tend to increase and the value of our MSRs 

usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. 

Even though they can act as a ﬁnatural hedge,ﬂ the hedge is not 

perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative 

effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential 

MSRs is generally immediate, b
ut any offsetting revenue benefit 

from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans 

would generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because 

of economic conditions and/or a weak or deteriorating housing 

market, even if interest rates were to fall or remain low, 

mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage 

originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the 

MSRs value caused by the lower rates. 
We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge 
our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We may not hedge all of 

our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. 

Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models 

and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may 

use hedging instruments tied to 
U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or 
Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or 

income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from our 

hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to 

use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage 

banking interest rate risk. 
We rely on GSEs to purchase mortgage loans that meet their 
conforming loan requirements and on other capital markets 

investors to purchase loans that do not meet those requirements 

Œ referred to as ﬁnonconformingﬂ loans. During the past few 

years investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen, 

thereby reducing the liquidity for those loans. In response to the 

reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more 

nonconforming loans. When we retain a loan not only do we 

forgo fee revenue and keep the credit risk of the loan but we also 

do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate 

new loans. Continued lack of liquidity could limit our ability to 

fund Œ and thus originate Œ new mortgage loans, reducing the 

fees we earn from originating 
and servicing loans. In addition, 

we cannot assure that GSEs will not materially limit their 

purchases of conforming loans, including because of capital 

constraints, or change their crit
eria for conforming loans (e.g., 
maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). Each of the GSEs 

is currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the 

Federal Housing Agency acting as conservator. We cannot 

predict if, when or how the conservatorship will end, or any 

associated changes to the GSEs business structure and 

operations that could result. As noted above, there are various 
proposals to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., 
including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The 

extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the 

housing finance market and the GSEs, including whether the 

GSEs will continue to exist in th
eir current form, as well as any 
effect on the Company™s busine
ss and financial results, are 
uncertain. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Asset/Liability Management Œ Mortgage Banking Interest Rate 

and Market Riskﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting Policiesﬂ sections in 

this Report.  
We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or 
reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches 

in contractual representations and warranties.
 We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs, 

SPEs that issue private label MBS, and other financial 

institutions that purchase mort
gage loans for 
investment or 
private label securitization. We
 may also pool FHA-insured and 
VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities guaranteed 
by GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans 

and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the FHA and VA 

contain various representations and warranties regarding the 

origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans, including 

ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in 

the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, 

absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing 

the loan, and compliance with applicable origination laws. We 

may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 

securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 

on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations 

or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 

90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Contracts 

for mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of 

specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to 

inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the 

agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to 

deliver various documents to the securitization trust or investor, 

and we may be obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan as to 

which the required documents are not delivered or are defective. 

We may negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a 

pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. We 

establish a mortgage repurchase liability related to the various 

representations and warranties that reflect management™s 

estimate of losses for loans which we have a repurchase 

obligation. Our mortgage repurchase liability represents 

management™s best estimate of the probable loss that we may 

expect to incur for the representations and warranties in the 

contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because 

the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon 

economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external 

conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, 

the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requires considerable management 

judgment. As a result of the uncertainty in the various estimates 

underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of 

losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability 
that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of 

possible loss for representations and warranties does not 

represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available 

information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions 

that are subject to change. If economic conditions and the 

housing market do not continue to improve or future investor 

repurchase demand and our success at appealing repurchase 

requests differ from past experience, we could continue to have 

increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on 

repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase 

liability. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Credit Risk Management Œ Liability for Mortgage Loan 

Repurchase Lossesﬂ section in this Report. 
We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, 
be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or 

reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage 

loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other 

sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, 

including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan 

foreclosure actions.
  We act as servicer and/or master 
servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for 

unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer 

or master servicer for those loans we have certain contractual 

obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third 

parties, including, in our capaci
ty as a servicer, foreclosing on 
defaulted mortgage loans or, to 
the extent consistent with the 
applicable securitization or other investor agreement, 

considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan 

modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master 

servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the 

servicer. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as 

servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if 

the breach is not cured within a specified period of time 

following notice, which can generally be given by the 

securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security 

holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may 

be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses 

from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to 

perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our 

part that involves wilful misfeasance, bad faith or gross 

negligence. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we 

may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or 

reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a 

remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have 

increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did 

not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or 

increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a 

significant reduction to net servicing income within mortgage 

banking noninterest income. 
We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-
execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity 

as a servicer in connection with pending or completed 

foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a 

foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to 

overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the 

foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the 
required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities 

may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly 

to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In 

addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action 

are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect 

or repurchase the loan. We may incur liability to securitization 

investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of 

mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply 

with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs 

may be negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs 

increase because of higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject 

to fines and other sanctions imposed by Federal or state 

regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our 

foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other 

mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our 

reputation or negatively affect our residential mortgage 

origination or servicing business. In April 2011, we entered into 

consent orders with the OCC and the FRB following a joint 

interagency horizontal examination of foreclosure processing at 

large mortgage servicers, including the Company. These orders 

incorporate remedial requirements for identified deficiencies 

and require the Company to, among 
other things, take certain 
actions with respect to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure 

operations, including submitting various action plans to ensure 

that our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations comply 

with legal requirements, regulatory guidance and the consent 

orders. As noted above, any increase in our servicing costs from 

changes in our foreclosure and other servicing practices, 

including resulting from the consent orders, negatively affects 

the fair value of our MSRs. 
On February 9, 2012, a federal/state settlement was 
announced among the DOJ, HUD, the Department of the 

Treasury, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade 

Commission (FTC), the Executive Office of the U.S. Trustee, the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a task force of Attorneys 

General representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four other 

servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing 

and foreclosure practices. While Oklahoma did not participate in 

the larger settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers 

under a simplified agreement. Under the terms of the larger 

settlement, which will remain in effect for three and a half years 

(subject to a trailing review 
period) we have agreed to the 
following programmatic commitments, consisting of three 

components totaling approximately $5.3 billion: 
 
 
 Consumer Relief Program commitment of $3.4 billion 

Refinance Program commitment of $900 million 

Foreclosure Assistance Program of $1 billion 
Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and FRB 
announced the imposition of civil money penalties of $83 million 

and $87 million, respectively, pursuant to the Consent Orders. 

While still subject to FRB confirmation, we believe the civil 

money obligations were satisfied through payments made under 

the Foreclosure Assistance Program to the federal government 

and participating states for thei
r use to address the impact of 
foreclosure challenges as they determine and which may include 

direct payments to consumers. 
As part of the settlement, the Company was released from 
claims and allegations relating 
to servicing, modification and 
foreclosure practices; however, the settlement does not release 

the Company from any claims arising out of securitization 

activities, including representations made to investors respecting 

mortgage-backed securities; criminal claims; repurchase 

demands from the GSEs; and inquiries into MERS, among other 

items. Any investigations or litigation relating to any of the 

Company™s mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices that are 

not covered or released by the settlement could result in material 

fines, penalties, equitable remedies, or other enforcement 

actions. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁRisk Management Œ 
Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ and ﬁŒ Risks 

Relating to Servicing Activiti
es,ﬂ and ﬁCritical Accounting 
Policies Œ Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rightsﬂ 

sections and Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral) 

and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage 
and bond insurers may negatively affect our servicing 

and investment portfolios. 
Our servicing portfolio includes 
certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from 

one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that 

any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit 

downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan 

on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with 

another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we 

would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the 

incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending 

on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and 

other circumstances, although we 
do not have an additional risk 

of repurchase loss associated with claim amounts for loans sold 

to third-party investors. Similar
ly, some of the mortgage loans 
we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a 

mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with 

respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if 

replacement coverage is not obtained. For example, in 

October 2011, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (PMI), one of our 

providers of mortgage insurance, was seized by its regulator. We 

previously utilized PMI to provide mortgage insurance on certain 

loans originated and held in our portfolio and on loans 

originated and sold to third-party investors. We also hold a small 
amount of residential MBS, which are backed by mortgages with 

a limited amount of insurance provided by PMI. PMI has 

announced that it will pay 50% of insurance claim amounts in 

cash with the rest deferred. Although we do not expect PMI™s 

situation to have a material adverse effect on our financial results 

because of the limited amount of loans and securities held in our 

portfolios with PMI insurance support, we cannot be certain that 

any such future events involving one of our other mortgage 

insurance company providers will not materially adversely affect 

our mortgage business and/or financial results. We also have 
investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss 

by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of 

principal and interest on them may be negatively affected by 
financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the 
bond insurers. 
For more information, refer to the ﬁEarnings Performance Œ 
Balance Sheet Analysis Œ Investment Securitiesﬂ and ﬁRisk 

Management Œ Credit Risk Mana
gementŒ Liability for Mortgage 
Loan Repurchase Lossesﬂ sections in this Report. 
OPERATIONAL AND LEGAL RISK 

A failure in or breach of our operational or security 
systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party 

vendors and other service providers, including as a 

result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, 

result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or 

proprietary information, damage our reputation, 

increase our costs and cause losses.
  As a large financial 
institution that serves over 70 million customers through over 

9,000 locations, 12,000 ATMs, the Internet and other 

distribution channels across the U.S. and internationally, we 

depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large 

number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As our 

customer base and locations have expanded throughout the U.S. 

and internationally, and as cu
stomer, public, legislative and 
regulatory expectations regarding operational and information 

security have increased, our operational systems and 

infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored 

for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, 

financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating 

systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become 

disabled or damaged as a result of
 a number of factors including 
events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For 

example, there could be sudden increases in customer 

transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; 

degradation or loss of public internet domain; climate change 

related impacts and natural disasters such as earthquakes, 

tornados, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising 

from local or larger scale political or social matters, including 

terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although 

we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, 

our business operations may be adversely affected by significant 

and widespread disruption to 
our physical infrastructure or 
operating systems that support our businesses and customers. 
Information security risks for large financial institutions such 
as Wells Fargo have generally increased in recent years in part 

because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the 

Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct 

financial transactions, and the 
increased sophistication and 
activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and 

other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored parties. 

Those parties also may attempt to fraudulently induce 

employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose 

confidential information in order to gain access to our data or 

that of our customers. As noted above, our operations rely on the 

secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential 

information in our computer systems and networks. Our 

banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets 

businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email 

systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In 
addition, to access our products and services, our customers may 

use personal smartphones, tablet PC™s, and other mobile devices 

that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we 

have robust information security procedures and controls, our 

technologies, systems, networks, and our customers™ devices may 

become the target of cyber attacks or information security 

breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, 

monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Wells Fargo™s or our 

customers™ confidential, proprietary and other information, or 

otherwise disrupt Wells Fargo™s or its customers™ or other third 

parties™ business operations. For example, various retailers have 

recently reported they were victims of cyber attacks in which 

large amounts of their customers™ data, including debit and 

credit card information, was obtained. In these situations we 

generally incur costs to replace compromised cards and address 

fraudulent transaction activity affecting our customers. 
Third parties with which we do bu
siness or that facilitate our 
business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, 

financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or 

security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of 

operational and information security risk to us, including from 

breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity 

constraints. 
To date we have not experienced any material losses relating 
to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, but there 

can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the 

future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains 

heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature 

of these threats, the prominent size and scale of Wells Fargo and 

its role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to 

implement our Internet banking and mobile banking channel 

strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions 

to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our 

expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the 

outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the current 

global economic and political environment. For example, Wells 

Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions continue to be 

the target of various evolving and adaptive denial-of-service or 
other cyber attacks as part of what appears to be a coordinated 

effort to disrupt the operations
 of financial institutions and 
potentially test their cybersecurity capabilities. As a result, 

cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement 

of our controls, processes and systems designed to protect our 

networks, computers, software and data from attack, damage or 

unauthorized access remain a priority for Wells Fargo. As cyber 

threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend 

significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance 

our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any 

information security vulnerabilities. 
Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or 
operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or 

cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or 

devices that our customers use to access our products and 

services could result in customer attrition, financial losses, the 

inability of our customers to transact business with us, violations 

of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties 

or intervention, reputational 
damage, reimbursement or other 
compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
which could materially adversely affect our results of operations 
or financial condition. 
Our framework for managing risks may not be effective 
in mitigating risk and loss to us.
  Our risk management 
framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have 

established processes and procedures intended to identify, 

measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which 

we are subject, including liquidit
y risk, credit risk, market risk, 
interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and 

reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk 

management framework, there are inherent limitations to our 

risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the 

future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or 

identified. In certain instances, we rely on models to measure, 

monitor and predict risks, such as market and interest rate risks, 

however there is no assurance that these models will 

appropriately capture all relevant risks or accurately predict 

future events or exposures. The recent financial and credit crisis 

and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance 

and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks, and 

our regulators remain focused on ensuring that financial 

institutions build and maintain robu
st risk manage
ment policies. 
If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could 

suffer unexpected losses which could materially adversely affect 

our results of operations or financial condition. 
We may incur fines, penalties and other negative 

consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even 

inadvertent or unintentional violations.  
We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with 

applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory 

frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for 

noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent 

or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time 

systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For 

example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of 

Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial 

institutions from participating 
in the transfer of property 
belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and 

designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose 

penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if 

reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There 

may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of 

noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such 

a finding may also damage our reputation as described below 

and could restrict the ability of institutional investment 

managers to invest in our securities. 
Under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights 
Act of 2012, we are required to make certain disclosures in our 

periodic reports filed with the SEC relating to certain activities 

that we or our worldwide affiliates knowingly engaged in 

involving Iran during the quarterly period covered by the report. 

If we or an affiliate were to engage in a reportable transaction, we 

must also file a separate notice regarding the activity with the 

SEC, which the SEC will make publicly available on its website. 

The SEC will be required to forward the report to the President, 

the Senate Committees on Foreign Relations and Banking, 
Housing and Urban Affairs, and the House of Representatives 

Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services. The 

President will then be required to initiate an investigation into 

the reported activity and within 180 days make a determination 

as to whether to impose sanctions on us. The scope of the 

reporting requirement is broad and covers any domestic or 

foreign entity or person that may be
 deemed to be an affiliate of 
ours. The potential sanctions and reputational harm for engaging 

in a reportable activity may be significant. 
Negative publicity, including as a result of protests, 
could damage our reputation and business.
  Reputation 
risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from 

negative public opinion, is inherent in our business and has 

increased substantially because of
 the financial crisis and our 
size and profile in the financial services industry. The reputation 

of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as 

a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the 

financial services industry, and negative public opinion about the 

financial services industry generally or Wells Fargo specifically 

could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers. 

Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged 

conduct in any number of activities, including mortgage lending 

practices, servicing and foreclosure activities, corporate 

governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, 

and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer 

information, and from actions taken by government regulators 

and community or other organizations in response to that 

conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the 
ﬁWells Fargoﬂ brand, negative public opinion about one business 

could affect our other businesses and also could negatively affect 

our ﬁcross-sellﬂ strategy. The proliferation of social media 

websites utilized by Wells Fargo and other third parties, as well 

as the personal use of social media by our team members and 

others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, also 

may increase the risk that negative, inappropriate or 

unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly 

that could harm our reputation or have other negative 

consequences, including as a result of our team members 

interacting with our customers in an unauthorized manner in 

various social media outlets. 
As a result of the financial crisis, Wells Fargo and other 
financial institutions have been targeted from time to time by 

protests and demonstrations, whic
h have included disrupting the 
operation of our retail banking stores and have resulted in 

negative public commentary about financial institutions, 

including the fees charged for various products and services. 

There can be no assurance that continued protests and negative 

publicity for the Company or large financial institutions 

generally will not harm our reputation and adversely affect our 

business and financial results. 
Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings.
  Wells Fargo and 
some of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial, regulatory and 
arbitration proceedings or investigations concerning matters 

arising from our business activities. Although we believe we have 

a meritorious defense in all material significant litigation 

pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate 
outcome. We establish reserves for legal claims when payments 
associated with the claims become
 probable and the costs can be 
reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter 

even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual 

cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than 

any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of 

a pending legal proceeding, depe
nding on the remedy sought and 
granted, could materially adversely affect our results of 

operations and financial condition. 
For more information, refer to Note 15 (Legal Actions) to 
Financial Statements in this Report.  
RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY™S COMPETITIVE 
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT  
We face significant and increasing competition in the 
rapidly evolving financial services industry.  
We compete 
with other financial institutions in a highly competitive industry 

that is undergoing significant changes as a result of financial 

regulatory reform and increased public scrutiny stemming from 

the financial crisis and continued challenging economic 

conditions. Wells Fargo generally competes on the basis of the 

quality of our customer service, 
the wide variety of products and 
services that we can offer our customers and the ability of those 

products and services to satisfy our customers™ needs, the pricing 

of our products and services, the extensive distribution channels 

available for our customers, our innovation, and our reputation. 

Continued and increased competition in any one or all of these 

areas may negatively affect our market share and results of 

operations and/or cause us to increase our capital investment in 

our businesses in order to remain competitive. Given the current 

economic, regulatory, and political environment for large 

financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, and possible public 

backlash to bank fees, there is increased competitive pressure to 

provide products and services at current or lower prices. 

Consequently, our ability to repo
sition or reprice our products 
and services from time to time may be limited and could be 

influenced significantly by the actions of our competitors who 

may or may not charge similar fees for their products and 

services. Any changes in the types of products and services that 

we offer our customers and/or the pricing for those products and 

services could result in a loss of customers and market share and 

could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 
Continued technological advances and the growth of e-
commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions 

to offer products and services that traditionally were banking 

products, and for financial institutions and other companies to 

provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, 

including electronic payment solutions. We may not respond 

effectively to these competitive threats from existing and new 

competitors and may be forced to increase our investment in our 

business to modify or adapt our existing products and services or 

develop new products and services
 to respond to our customers™ 

needs. 
Our ﬁcross-sellingﬂ efforts to increase the number of 
products our customers buy from us and offer them all 

of the financial products that fulfill their needs is a key 
part of our growth strategy, and our failure to execute 

this strategy effectively could have a material adverse 

effect on our revenue growth and financial results. 

Selling more products to our customers Œ ﬁcross-sellingﬂ Œ is 

very important to our business model and key to our ability to 

grow revenue and earnings especially during the current 

environment of slow economic growth and regulatory reform 

initiatives. Many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, 

especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can limit 

our ability to sell more products 
to our customers or influence us 
to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest 

income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also 

affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies 

could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products 

to attract and retain customers. Our cross-sell strategy also is 

dependent on earning more business from our Wachovia 

customers, and increasing our cross-sell ratio Œ or the average 

number of products sold to existing customers Œ may become 
more challenging and we might not attain our goal of selling an 

average of eight products to each customer. 
Our ability to attract and retain qualified team 
members is critical to the success of our business and 

failure to do so could adversely affect our business 

performance, competitive position and future 

prospects.
  The success of Wells Fargo is heavily dependent on 
the talents and efforts of our team members, and in many areas 

of our business, including the commercial banking, brokerage, 

investment advisory, and capital markets businesses, the 

competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. In order to 

attract and retain highly qual
ified team members, we must 
provide competitive compensation. As a large financial 

institution we may be subject to limitations on compensation by 

our regulators that may adversely affect our ability to attract and 

retain these qualified team members. Some of our competitors 

may not be subject to these same compensation limitations, 

which may further negatively affect our ability to attract and 

retain highly qualified team members. 
RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Changes in accounting policies or accounting 
standards, and changes in how accounting standards 

are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how 

we report our financial results and condition. 
Our 
accounting policies are fundamental to determining and 

understanding our financial results and condition. As described 

below, some of these policies require use of estimates and 

assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities 

and financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies 

could materially affect our financial statements. 
From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 

of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting 

standard setters and those who interpret the accounting 

standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our 

outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous 

interpretations or positions on how these standards should be 
Risk Factors 
(continued) 
applied. Changes in financial a
ccounting and reporting standards 
and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our 
control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how 

we report our financial results and condition. We may be 

required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply 

an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case 

potentially resulting in our restating prior period financial 

statements in material amounts. 
Our financial statements are based in part on 
assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could cause 

unexpected losses in the future, and our financial 

statements depend on our internal controls over 

financial reporting.  
Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required 
to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our 

financial statements, including in determining credit loss 

reserves, reserves for mortgage repurchases, reserves related to 

litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, 

among other items. Several of our accounting policies are critical 

because they require management to make difficult, subjective 

and complex judgments about matters that are inherently 

uncertain and because it is like
ly that materially different 
amounts would be reported under different conditions or using 

different assumptions. For a description of these policies, refer to 

the ﬁCritical Accounting Policiesﬂ section in this Report. If 

assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements 

are incorrect, we may experience material losses. 
Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets 
and liabilities, investment securities, certain loans, MSRs, 

private equity investments, 
structured notes and certain 
repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a 

determination of their fair value 
in order to prepare our financial 
statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we 

may make fair value determinations based on internally 

developed models or other means 
which ultimately rely to some 
degree on management judgment, and there is no assurance that 

our models will capture or appropriately reflect all relevant 

inputs required to accurately determine fair value. Some of these 

and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable 

price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being 

based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, 

sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans 

and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance 

sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such 

valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and 

could lead to declines in our earnings. 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires 
our management to evaluate the Company™s disclosure controls 

and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting 

and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal 

control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in 

our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any ﬁmaterial 

weaknessesﬂ in our internal controls. We cannot assure that we 

will not identify one or more material weaknesses as of the end of 

any given quarter or year, nor can we predict the effect on our 

stock price of disclosure of a material weakness. Sarbanes-Oxley 

also limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors 

may provide to us in order to preserve their independence from 
us. If our auditors were found not to be ﬁindependentﬂ of us 

under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new auditors 

and re-file financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. 

We could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial 

statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to 

raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences. 
RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS 

Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon 
announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay 

or have difficulty integrating them.  
We regularly explore 
opportunities to acquire companies in the financial services 

industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our 

acquisitions, and we typically do not comment publicly on a 

possible acquisition until we have signed a definitive agreement. 

When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall 

depending on the size of the acquisition, the type of business to 

be acquired, the purchase price, and the potential dilution to 

existing stockholders or our earnings per share if we issue 

common stock in connection with the acquisition. 
We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before 
we can acquire a bank, bank holding company or certain other 

financial services businesses depending on the size of the 

financial services business to be acquired. In deciding whether to 

approve a proposed acquisition, federal bank regulators will 

consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on 

competition and the risk to the stability of the U.S. banking or 

financial system, our financial condition and future prospects 
including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the 

competence, experience, and integrity of management and 

record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience 

and needs of the communities to be served, including our record 

of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and our 

effectiveness in combating money laundering. As a result of the 

Dodd-Frank Act and concerns regarding the large size of 

financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, the regulatory process 

for approving acquisitions has become more complex and 

regulatory approvals may be more difficult to obtain. We cannot 

be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any 

required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be 

required to sell banks, branches and/or business units or assets 

or issue additional equity as a condition to receiving regulatory 

approval for an acquisition. In addition, federal bank regulations 

prohibit FRB regulatory approval of any transaction that would 

create an institution holding more
 than 10% of total U.S. insured 

deposits, or of any transaction (whether or not subject to FRB 

approval) that would create a financial company with more than 

10% of the liabilities of all financial companies in the U.S. As of 

September 30, 2013, we believe we already held more than 10% 

of total U.S. insured deposits. As a result, our size may limit our 

bank acquisition opportunities in the future. 
Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us 
not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases 

in geographic or product presen
ce, and other projected benefits 
from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than 

expected deposit attrition, loss of key team members, disruption 

of our business or the business of the acquired company, or 
otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and team 
members or achieve the anticipate
d benefits of the acquisition. 
Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our 

ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect 

of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in 

acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than 

expected. Many of the foregoing risks may be increased if the 

acquired company operates internationally or in a geographic 

location where we do not already have significant business 

operations and/or team members. 
Any factor described in this Report or in any of our other SEC 
filings could by itself, or together with other factors, adversely 

affect our financial results and condition. Refer to our quarterly 

reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in 2014 for material 

changes to the above discussion of risk factors. There are factors 

not discussed above or elsewhere in this Report that could 

adversely affect our financial results and condition. 
Controls and Procedures 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
The Company™s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of December 31, 2013, of the Company™s disclosure controls and 

procedures. The Company™s chief executive officer and chief financia
l officer participated in the evaluation. Based on this eva
luation, the 
Company™s chief executive officer and chief financial officer con
cluded that the Company™s disclosure controls and procedures w
ere 
effective as of December 31, 2013. 
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13
a-15(f) promulgated under the Secu
rities Exchange Act of 1934 as
 a process 
designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company™s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by th
e Company™s Board, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporti
ng and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting princip
les (GAAP) and includes those policies and procedures that: 

   pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
 accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
 of assets of the Company; 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 

accordance with GAAP, and that receipts an
d expenditures of the Company are being made 
only in accordance with authorizations 
of management and directors of the Company; and 

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the 

Company™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Project
ions of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to 
the risk that controls may beco
me inadequate because of change
s in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during any qua
rter in 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to 
materially affect, the Company™s internal control over financial 
reporting. 
Management™s report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth below and should be read with these limitations i
n mind. Management™s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
The Company™s management is responsible for establishing and maint
aining adequate internal control over financial reporting for
 the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company™s in
ternal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 20
13, 
using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 
Internal Control Œ 
Integrated Framework (1992)
. Based on this assessment, management concluded that
 as of December 31, 2013, the Company™s internal 
control over financial reporting was effective. 
KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that
 audited the Company™s financial statements included in this 
Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company™s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG™s audit report appears o 
n the 
following page. 
               
                       
                           * * * 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Wells Fargo & Company: 
We have audited Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries™ (the 
Company) internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
Œ Integrated Framework (1992)
 issued by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Th
e Company™s management is responsible for maintaining effective 
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial report
ing, included 
in the accompanying Management™s Report on Internal Control over 
Financial Reporting. Our responsi
bility is to express an opini
on on 
the Company™s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control ov 
er financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our 
audit included obtaining an unde
rstanding of internal control 
over 
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating ef 
fectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also in
cluded performing such other procedures as we considered neces
sary in 
the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the relia
bility of 
financial reporting and the preparation of fi
nancial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted acc 
ounting principles. A company™s internal control over financial reportin
g includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to th
e maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately an
d fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the asset
s of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statem 
ents in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only
 in accordance with authorizations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthoriz
ed acquisition, use, or disposition of th
e company™s assets that could have a mater
ial effect 
on the financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over fina
ncial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, p
rojections 
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject 
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of cha
nges in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects
, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
Œ Integrated Framework (1992)
 issued by COSO. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of th
e Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 
consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 20
13 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013,
 and 
our report dated February 26, 2014, expressed an unqual
ified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
San Francisco, California 
February 26, 2014 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statement of Income 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 2013 
2012 2011 Interest income 
Trading assets 
Investment securities
$  1,376 
 8,116 
1,358 
8,098 1,440 
8,475 Mortgages held for sale
 1,290 
1,825 1,644 Loans held for sale
Loans
13  35,571 
41 36,482 58 37,247 Other interest income
723 587 548 Total interest income
 47,089 
48,391 49,412 Interest expense 

Deposits
Short-term borrowings
 1,337 
60 1,727 79 2,275 80 Long-term debt
 2,585 
3,110 3,978 Other interest expense
307 245 316 Total interest expense
 4,289 
5,161 6,649 Net interest income
 42,800 
43,230 42,763 Provision for credit losses
 2,309 
7,217 7,899 Net interest income after provision for credit losses
 40,491 
36,013 34,864 Noninterest income 

Service charges on deposit accounts
Trust and investment fees
 5,023 
 13,430 
4,683 11,890 4,280 11,304 Card fees
 3,191 
2,838 3,653 Other fees

Mortgage banking
 4,340 

 8,774 
4,519 11,638 4,193 7,832 Insurance
 1,814 
1,850 1,960 Net gains from trading activities

Net gains (losses) on debt securities (1) 
 1,623 
(29)
1,707  (128) 
1,014 54 Net gains from equity investments (2)
Lease income
 1,472 
 663 1,485 567 1,482 524 Other 679 1,807 1,889 Total noninterest income
 40,980 
42,856 38,185 Noninterest expense 

Salaries
 15,152 
14,689 14,462 Commission and incentive compensation

Employee benefits
 9,951 

 5,033 
9,504 
4,611 8,857 
4,348 Equipment
 1,984 
2,068 2,283 Net occupancy

Core deposit and other intangibles
 2,895 

 1,504 
2,857 
1,674 3,011 
1,880 FDIC and other deposit assessments 
961 1,356 1,266 Other 11,362 
13,639 13,286 Total noninterest expense
 48,842 
50,398 49,393 Income before income tax expense
 32,629 
28,471 23,656 Income tax expense
 10,405 
9,103 7,445 Net income before noncontrolling interests
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
 22,224 
 346 19,368 471 16,211 342 Wells Fargo net income 
$  21,878 
18,897 15,869 Less: Preferred stock dividends and other
 989 898 844 Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock 
$ 20,889 
17,999 15,025 Per share information 

Earnings per common share 
$ 3.95 3.40 2.85 Diluted earnings per common share

Dividends declared per common share
 3.89 
 1.15 3.36 
0.88 2.82 
0.48 Average common shares outstanding

Diluted average common shares outstanding
 5,287.3 

 5,371.2 
5,287.6 
5,351.5 5,278.1 
5,323.4 (1) Total other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses (gains) were $39 million, $3 million and $349 million for the year ended De
cember 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. Of total OTTI, losses of $158 million, $240 million and $423 million were recognized in earnings, and gains of $(
119) million, $(237) million and $(74) million 
were recognized as non-credit-related OTTI in other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, r
espectively. 
(2) Includes OTTI losses of $186 million, $176 million and $288 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respec
tively. 
The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Wells Fargo net income 
$  21,878 
18,897 15,869 Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax: 
Investment securities: 
Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period
 (7,661)
 5,143 (588) 
Reclassification of net gains to net income
 (285)
 (271) 
(696) 
Derivatives and hedging activities: 
Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period
 (32)
 52 190 Reclassification of net gains on cash flow hedges to net income
 (296)
 (388) 
(571) 
Defined benefit plans adjustments: 
Net actuarial gains (losses) arising during the period
 1,533 
 (775) 
(1,079) 
Amortization of net actuarial loss, settlements and other to net income
 276 144 99 Foreign currency translation adjustments: 
Net unrealized losses arising during the period
 (44)
 (6) 
(37) 
Reclassification of net gains to net income
 (12)
 (10) 
-Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax
 (6,521)
 3,889 (2,682) 
Income tax (expense) benefit related to other comprehensive income
 2,524 
 (1,442) 
1,139 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 (3,997)
 2,447 (1,543) 
Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) from noncontrolling interests
 267 4 (12) 
Wells Fargo other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 (4,264)
 2,443 (1,531) 
Wells Fargo comprehensive income
 17,614 
21,340 14,338 Comprehensive income from noncontrolling interests
 613 475 330 Total comprehensive income 
$  18,227 
21,815 14,668 The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
December 31, 
(in millions, except shares) 
2013 
2012 Assets 
Cash and due from banks 
$  19,919 
21,860 Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments
 213,793 
137,313 Trading assets
 62,813 
57,482 Investment securities: 
Available-for-sale, at fair value
 252,007 
235,199 Held-to-maturity, at cost (fair value $12,247 and $0)
 12,346 
-Mortgages held for sale (includes $13,879 and $42,305 carried at fair value) (1)
 16,763 
47,149 Loans held for sale (includes $1 and $6 carried at fair value) (1)
 133 110 Loans (includes $5,995 and $6,206 carried at fair value) (1)
 825,799 
799,574 Allowance for loan losses
 (14,502)
 (17,060) 
Net loans
 811,297 
782,514 Mortgage servicing rights: 
Measured at fair value
 15,580 
11,538 Amortized
 1,229 
1,160 Premises and equipment, net
 9,156 
9,428 Goodwill 
 25,637 
25,637 Other assets (includes $1,386 and $0 carried at fair value) (1)
 86,342 
93,578 Total assets (2) 
$  1,527,015 
 1,422,968 
Liabilities 

Noninterest-bearing deposits 
$  288,117 
288,207 Interest-bearing deposits
 791,060 
714,628 Total deposits
 1,079,177 
 1,002,835 
Short-term borrowings
 53,883 
57,175 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
 69,949 
76,668 Long-term debt (includes $0 and $1 carried at fair value) (1)
 152,998 
127,379 Total liabilities (3)
 1,356,007 
 1,264,057 
Equity 

Wells Fargo stockholders' equity: 
Preferred stock
 16,267 
12,883 Common stock Œ $1-2/3 par value, authorized 9,000,000,000 shares;
 issued 5,481,811,474 shares and 5,481,811,474 shares
 9,136 
9,136 Additional paid-in capital
 60,296 
59,802 Retained earnings
 92,361 
77,679 Cumulative other comprehensive income
 1,386 
5,650 Treasury stock Œ 224,648,769 shares and 215,497,298 shares
 (8,104)  
 (6,610) 
Unearned ESOP shares
 (1,200)  
 (986) 
Total Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
 170,142 
157,554 Noncontrolling interests
 866 1,357 Total equity
 171,008 
158,911 Total liabilities and equity 
$  1,527,015 
 1,422,968 
(1) Parenthetical amounts represent assets and liabilities for which we have elected the fair value option. 
(2) Our consolidated assets at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, include the following assets of certain variable interest e
ntities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle 
the liabilities of those VIEs: Cash and due from banks, $165 million and $260 million; Trading assets, $162 million and $114 mi
llion; Investment Securities, $1.4 billion and 
$2.8 billion; Mortgages held for sale, $38 million and $469 million; Net loans, $6.0 billion and $10.6 billion; Other assets, $
347 million and $457 million, and Total assets, 
$8.1 billion and $14.6 billion, respectively. 
(3) Our consolidated liabilities at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, include the following VIE liabilities for which the VI
E creditors do not have recourse to Wells 
Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $29 million and $0 million; Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $90 million and $134 million; Long-term debt, $2.3 billion and $3.5 billion; 
and Total liabilities, $2.4 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively. 
The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
Prestock  
ferred 
Costock  
mmon 
(in millions, except shares) 
Shares Amount 
Shares Amount 
Balance December 31, 2010
 10,185,303 
$ 8,689 5,262,283,228 
$ 8,787 Balance January 1, 2011
Net income 
 10,185,303 
8,689 5,262,283,228 
8,787 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax 

Noncontrolling interests 

Common stock issued
 52,906,564 
88 Common stock repurchased (1)
 (85,779,031) 
Preferred stock issued to ESOP

Preferred stock released by ESOP 
 1,200,000 
1,200 Preferred stock converted to common shares

Common stock warrants repurchased 
 (959,623) 
(959)
 33,200,875 
56 Preferred stock issued
 25,010 2,501 Common stock dividends 
Preferred stock dividends 
Tax benefit from stock incentive compensation 

Stock incentive compensation expense 

Net change in deferred compensation and related plans 
Net change
 265,387 2,742 328,408 144 Balance December 31, 2011
 10,450,690 
$ 11,431
 5,262,611,636 
$ 8,931 
Cumulative effect of fair value election for certain 
residential mortgage servicing rights 
Balance January 1, 2012
 10,450,690 
11,431 5,262,611,636 
8,931 Net income 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax 

Noncontrolling interests 

Common stock issued
 97,267,538 
162 Common stock repurchased (1)

Preferred stock issued to ESOP
 940,000 940  (119,586,873) 
Preferred stock released by ESOP 

Preferred stock converted to common shares

Common stock warrants repurchased 
 (887,825) 
(888)
 26,021,875 
43 Preferred stock issued
 56,000 1,400 Common stock dividends 

Preferred stock dividends 

Tax benefit from stock incentive compensation 
Stock incentive compensation expense 
Net change in deferred compensation and related plans 
Net change
 108,175 1,452 3,702,540 
205 Balance December 31, 2012
 10,558,865 
$ 12,883
 5,266,314,176 
$ 9,136 
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2012, includes $200 million related to a private forward repurchase transaction entered into in 
fourth quarter 2012 that settled in first 
quarter 2013 for 6 million shares of common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2011, includes $150 million related to a pri
vate forward repurchase transaction 
entered into in fourth quarter 2011 that settled in first quarter 2012 for 6 million shares of common stock. 
The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
(continued on following pages) 
Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
Additional
paid-in
capital
 Retained
 earnings 
 Cumulative
 other
mprehensive 
 co
income 
Treasury
stock 
 Unearned
 ESOPshares 
 Total 

 Wells Fargo 
 stockholders'
equity 
 Noncontrolling
interests 
 Total 
equity 
53,426 51,918 4,738 (487) 
(663) 
126,408 1,481 127,889 53,426 51,918 4,738 (487)
 (663)
 126,408 1,481 127,889 15,869 15,869 
342 16,211  (37) 
(1,531) 
(1,531) 
(12) 
(1,543)
(37) 
(365) 
(402)
 1,208 1,296 
1,296 (150) 
(2,266) 
(2,416) 
(2,416)
 102 (1,302) 
-- (80) 
1,039 959 959 903 -- (2) 
(2) 
(2) 
2,501 
2,501 21 (2,558) 
(2,537) 
(2,537) 
(844) 
(844) 
(844)
 78 78 
78 529 529 529  (41) 
9 (32) 
(32)
 2,531 12,467 (1,531)
 (2,257)
 (263)
 13,833 (35)
 13,798 55,957 64,385 3,207 (2,744) 
(926) 
140,241 1,446 141,687 2 2 2 55,957 64,387 3,207 (2,744) 
(926) 
140,243 1,446 141,689 18,897 18,897 
471 19,368 2,443 2,443 
4 2,447 (16) 
(16) 
(564) 
(580)
 2,326 2,488 
2,488 (50) 
(3,868) 
(3,918) 
(3,918)
 88 (1,028) 
-- (80) 
968 888 888 845 -- (1) 
(1) 
(1)
 (23) 
1,377 
1,377 55 (4,713) 
(4,658) 
(4,658) 
(892) 
(892) 
(892)
 230 230 230 560 560 560  (89) 
2 (87) 
(87)
 3,845 13,292 2,443 (3,866) 
(60) 
17,311 (89) 
17,222 59,802 77,679 5,650 (6,610) 
(986) 
157,554 1,357 158,911 (continued from previous pages) 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
Preferred stock  
Common stock  
(in millions, except shares) 
Shares Amount 
Shares Amount 
Balance December 31, 2012
 10,558,865 
$  12,883   
 5,266,314,176 
$  9,136 
Balance January 1, 2013
 10,558,865 
 12,883   
 5,266,314,176 
 9,136 
Net income 
Other comprehensive loss, net of tax 

Noncontrolling interests 
Common stock issued 
 89,392,517 
Common stock repurchased (1) 
 (124,179,383) 
Preferred stock issued to ESOP
 1,200,000 
 1,200   
Preferred stock released by ESOP 
Preferred stock converted to common shares
 (1,005,270)
 (1,006)
 25,635,395 
Common stock warrants repurchased 

Preferred stock issued 
 127,600 
 3,190   
Common stock dividends 

Preferred stock dividends 

Tax benefit from stock incentive compensation 

Stock incentive compensation expense 

Net change in deferred compensation and related plans 
Net change
 322,330 
 3,384   
 (9,151,471)
 -Balance December 31, 2013
 10,881,195 
$  16,267   
 5,257,162,705 
$  9,136 
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2013, includes $500 million related to a private forward repurchase transaction entered into in 
fourth quarter 2013 that is expected to 
settle in first quarter 2014 for an estimated 11 million shares of common stock. See Note 1 for additional information. 
The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
Wells Fargo stockholders' equity 
Additional 
paid-in 
capital 
Retained 
earnings 
Cumulative 
other 
comprehensive  
income 
Treasury 
stock  
Unearned 
ESOP shares 
Total 
Wells Fargo 
stockholders' 
equity 
Noncontrolling 
interests 
Total  
equity
 59,802 
 77,679 
 5,650 
 (6,610)
 (986)
 157,554   
 1,357 
 158,911 
 59,802 
 77,679 
 5,650 
 (6,610)
 (986)
 157,554   
 1,357 
 158,911 
 21,878 
 21,878   
346  22,224 
 (4,264) 
 (4,264)
 267
 (3,997)
 28
 28
 (1,104)  
 (1,076)
 (2)
 (10)
 2,745 
 2,733   
 2,733 
 (300)
 (5,056)
 (5,356)
 (5,356)
 108  (1,308)
 -- (88)
 1,094   
 1,006   
 1,006 
191 815 ---- (45)
 3,145
 3,145
 83
 (6,169)  
 (6,086)
 (6,086)
 (1,017)  
 (1,017)
 (1,017)
 269 269 269 725 725 725  (475)
 2  (473)
 (473)
 494  14,682 
 (4,264)
 (1,494)
 (214)
 12,588   
 (491)
 12,097 
 60,296 
 92,361 
 1,386 
 (8,104)
 (1,200)
 170,142   
866  171,008 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Cash flows from operating activities: 
Net income before noncontrolling interests 
$ 22,224 
19,368 16,211 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
Provision for credit losses
 2,309 
7,217 7,899 Changes in fair value of MSRs, MHFS and LHFS carried at fair value
 (3,229)
 (2,307) 
(295) 
Depreciation and amortization
 3,293 
2,807 2,208 Other net losses (gains)
 (9,384)
 (3,661) 
3,273 Stock-based compensation
 1,920 
1,698 1,488 Excess tax benefits related to stock incentive compensation
 (271)
 (226) 
(79) 
Originations of MHFS
 (317,054)
 (483,835) 
(345,099) 
Proceeds from sales of and principal collected on mortgages originated for sale
 311,431 
421,623 298,524 Originations of LHFS
 - (15) 
(5) 
Proceeds from sales of and principal collected on LHFS
 575 9,383 11,833 Purchases of LHFS
 (291)
 (7,975) 
(11,723) 
Net change in: 
Trading assets
 43,638 
105,440 35,149 Deferred income taxes 
 4,977 
 (1,297) 
3,573 Accrued interest receivable
 (13)
 293 (401) 
Accrued interest payable
 (32)
 (84) 
(362) 
Other assets
 4,693 
2,064 (11,529) 
Other accrued expenses and liabilities
 (7,145)
 (11,953) 
3,000 Net cash provided by operating activities
 57,641 
58,540 13,665 Cash flows from investing activities: 

Net change in: 
Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements 
and other short-term investments
 (78,184)
 (92,946) 
36,270 Available-for-sale securities: 
Sales proceeds
 2,837 
5,210 23,062 Prepayments and maturities
 50,737 
59,712 52,618 Purchases  
 (89,474)
 (64,756) 
(121,235) 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
Paydowns and maturities
 30 --Purchases  
 (5,782)
 --Nonmarketable equity investments: 
Sales proceeds
 2,577 
2,279 2,424 Purchases
 (3,273)
 (2,619)
 (2,656) 
Loans: 
Loans originated by banking subsidiaries, net of principal collected
 (43,744)
 (53,381)
 (38,526) 
Proceeds from sales (including participations) of loans originated for investment
 7,694 
6,811 6,555 Purchases (including participations) of loans
 (11,563)
 (9,040)
 (8,878) 
Principal collected on nonbank entities™ loans
 19,955 
25,080 9,782 Loans originated by nonbank entities 
 (17,311)
 (23,555)
 (7,522) 
Net cash paid for acquisitions
 - (4,322) 
 (353) 
Proceeds from sales of foreclosed assets and short sales
 11,021 
12,690 13,495 Net cash from purchases and sales of MSRs
 407 116  (155) 
Other, net 
581  (1,169)
 75 
Net cash used by investing activities
 (153,492)
 (139,890) 
(35,044) 
Cash flows from financing activities: 
Net change in: 
Deposits
 76,342 
82,762 72,128 Short-term borrowings
 (3,390)
 7,699 (6,231) 
Long-term debt: 
Proceeds from issuance
 53,227 
27,695 11,687 Repayment
 (25,423)
 (28,093) 
(50,555) 
Preferred stock: 
Proceeds from issuance
 3,145 
1,377 2,501 Cash dividends paid
 (1,017)
 (892) 
(844) 
Common stock: 
Proceeds from issuance
 2,224 
2,091 1,296 Repurchased
 (5,356)
 (3,918) 
(2,416) 
Cash dividends paid
 (5,953)
 (4,565) 
(2,537) 
Common stock warrants repurchased 
- (1) 
(2) 
Excess tax benefits related to stock incentive compensation
 271 226 79 Net change in noncontrolling interests
 (296)
 (611) 
(331) 
Other, net 
136 --Net cash provided by financing activities
 93,910 
83,770 24,775 Net change in cash and due from banks
 (1,941)
 2,420 3,396 Cash and due from banks at beginning of year
 21,860 
19,440 16,044 Cash and due from banks at end of year 
$ 19,919 
21,860 19,440 Supplemental cash flow disclosures: 
Cash paid for interest 
$ 4,321 
5,245 7,011 Cash paid for income taxes
 7,132 
8,024 4,875 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. See Note 1 for noncash activities. 
See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout the Financial Statements and related Notes. 
Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services 
company. We provide banking, insurance, trust and 

investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail 

banking, brokerage, and consumer and commercial finance 

through banking stores, the internet and other distribution 

channels to consumers, businesses and institutions in all 

50 states, the District of Columbia, and in foreign countries. 

When we refer to ﬁWells Fargo,ﬂ ﬁthe Company,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or 

ﬁus,ﬂ we mean Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 

(consolidated). Wells Fargo & Company (the Parent) is a 

financial holding company and a bank holding company. 
Our accounting and reporting policies conform with U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and practices 

in the financial services indu
stry. To prepare the financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make 

estimates based on assumptions about future economic and 

market conditions (for example, unemployment, market 

liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that affect the reported amounts 

of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 

income and expenses during the re
porting period and the related 

disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate current 

conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is 

reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than 

anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our 

results of operations and financial condition. Management has 

made significant estimates in several areas, including allowance 

for credit losses and purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans 
(Note 6), valuations of residential mortgage servicing rights 

(MSRs) (Notes 8 and 9) and financial instruments (Note 17), 

liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses (Note 9) and 

income taxes (Note 21). Actual results could differ from those 

estimates. 
Accounting Standards Adopted in 2013 
In first quarter 2013, we adopte
d the following new accounting 
guidance: 
   Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2011-11, 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
; ASU 2013-01, 
Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about 
Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
; and 
ASU 2013-02, 
Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
. ASU 2011-11 
expands the disclosure requirements for certain 
financial instruments and derivatives that are subject to 

enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements. 

The disclosures are required regardless of whether the 

instruments have been offset (or netted) in the balance sheet. 

Under ASU 2011-11, companies must describe the nature of 

offsetting arrangements and provide quantitative information 

about those agreements, including the gross and net amounts of 

financial instruments that are recognized on the balance sheet. 

In January 2013, the FASB issued 
ASU 2013-01
, which clarifies 
the scope of ASU 2011-11 by limiting the disclosures to 
derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending 

transactions to the extent they 
are subject to an enforceable 
master netting or similar arrangement. We adopted this

guidance in first quarter 2013 with retrospective application.

These Updates did not affect our consolidated financial results 

since they amend only the disclosure requirements for offsetting 

financial instruments. See Notes 14 and 16 for the new 

disclosures.
ASU 2013-02 
requires companies to disclose the effect on net
income line items from significant amounts reclassified out of
accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and entirely

into net income. If reclassifications are partially or entirely 

capitalized on the balance sheet, then companies must provide a

cross-reference to disclosures that provide information about the 
effect of the reclassifications. We adopted this guidance in first 

quarter 2013 with retrospective application. This Update did not 

affect our consolidated financial results as it amends only the

disclosure requirements for accumulated other comprehensive

income. See Note 23 for expanded disclosures on reclassification 

adjustments.
In third quarter 2013, we adopte
d the following new accounting 
guidance:  ASU 2013-10, 
Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815):
Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (or 

Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate 

for Hedge Accounting Purposes 
ASU 2013-10
 permits the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate 
(Overnight Index Swap Rate) to be used as a U.S. benchmark 

interest rate for hedge accounting purposes, in addition to 

LIBOR and U.S. Treasury. The Update also removes the 

restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar 

hedges. Our adoption of this guidance with prospective 

application did not affect our consolidated financial statements. 
Consolidation 
Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 

the Parent and our majority-owned subsidiaries and variable 

interest entities (VIEs) (defined below) in which we are the 

primary beneficiary. Significant
 intercompany accounts and 
transactions are eliminated in consolidation. When we have 

significant influence over operating and financing decisions for a 

company but do not own a majority of the voting equity 

interests, we account for the in
vestment using the equity method 
of accounting (we recognize a proportionate share of the 

company™s earnings). If we do not have significant influence, we 
recognize the investment at cost 
except for (1) marketable equity 
securities, which we recognize at fair value with changes in fair 

value included in OCI, and (2) nonmarketable equity 

investments for which we have elected the fair value option. 

Investments accounted for under the equity or cost method are 

included in other assets. 
Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
We are a variable interest holder in certain special-purpose 
entities (SPEs) in which equity investors do not have the 
characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the 

entity does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities 

without additional subordinated financial support from other 

parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable interest arises from 

contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, 

which change with fluctuations in the fair value of the entity's 

net assets. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary 

beneficiary, defined as the part
y that has both the power to 
direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a 

variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 

To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold could 

potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative 

and quantitative factors regardin
g the nature, size and form of 
our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are 

the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis. 
Cash and Due From Banks 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in 

transit, and amounts due from 
the Federal Reserve Bank and 
other depository institutions. 
Trading Assets 

Trading assets are primarily securities, including corporate debt, 

U.S. government agency obligations and other securities that we 

acquire for short-term appreciation or other trading purposes, 
and the fair value of derivatives primarily held for customer 

accommodation purposes or risk mitigation and hedging. 

Interest-only strips and other retained interests in 

securitizations that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise 

settled in a way that the holder would not recover substantially 

all of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. 

Trading assets are carried at fair value, with interest and 

dividend income recorded in interest income and realized and 

unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. 

Periodic cash settlements on derivatives and other trading assets 

are recorded in noninterest income. 
Investments 
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES 
Debt securities that we 
might not hold until maturity and marketable equity securities 

are classified as available-for-sale securities and reported at fair 
value. Unrealized gains and losses,
 after applicable income taxes, 
are reported in cumulative OCI. 
We conduct other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) 
analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential loss-

triggering event occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both 

debt and equity securities is a de
cline in fair market value below 
the amount recorded for an investment and the severity and 

duration of the decline. 
For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the 
fair value below amortized cost ba
sis, we recognize OTTI if we 
(1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than 

not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of 

its amortized cost basis, or (3) we do not expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of the security. 
Estimating recovery of the amor
tized cost basis of a debt 
security is based upon an assessment of the cash flows expected 

to be collected. If the present value of cash flows expected to be 

collected, discounted at the security™s effective yield, is less than 

amortized cost, OTTI is considered to have occurred. In 

performing an assessment of the cash flows expected to be 

collected, we consider all relevant information including: 

  
      
 the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has 
been less than the amortized cost basis; 

the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the 

security; 

the cause of the price decline, such as the general level of 

interest rates or adverse conditions specifically related to 

the security, an industry or a geographic area; 

the issuer's financial condition, near-term prospects and 

ability to service the debt; 

the payment structure of the debt security and the 

likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that 

increase in the future; 

for asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the 

underlying collateral, including delinquency rates, level of 

non-performing assets, cumulative losses to date, collateral 

value and the remaining credit enhancement compared with 

expected credit losses; 

any change in rating agencies' credit ratings at evaluation 

date from acquisition date and any likely imminent action; 

independent analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit 

ratings and other independent market data; and  

recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to 

the balance sheet date. 
If we intend to sell the security, or if it is more likely than not 
we will be required to sell the security before recovery, an OTTI 

write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire 

difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the 

security. For debt securities that are considered other-than-

temporarily impaired that we do no
t intend to sell or it is more 
likely than not that we will not be required to sell before 

recovery, the OTTI write-down is separated into an amount 

representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and 

the amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in 

OCI. The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to 

the difference between the debt security's amortized cost basis 

and the present value of its expected future cash flows 

discounted at the security's effective yield. The remaining 

difference between the security™s fair value and the present value 

of future expected cash flows is due to factors that are not credit-

related and, therefore, is recognized in OCI. We believe that we 

will fully collect the carrying value of securities on which we have 

recorded a non-credit-related impairment in OCI. 
We hold investments in perpetual preferred securities (PPS) 
that are structured in equity form, but have many of the 

characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows 

in the form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to 

debt securities and pricing like long-term callable bonds. 
Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate 
PPS for OTTI using a model similar to the model we use for debt 

securities as described above. Among the factors we consider in 
our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of 
deterioration in the credit of the issuer as indicated by a decline 

in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment 

grade and the estimated recovery period. Additionally, in 

determining if there was evidence of credit deterioration, we 

evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, 

(2) the period of time for which the decline in fair value has 

existed, and (3) the financial condition and near-term prospects 

of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence 

the operations of the issuer. We consider PPS to be other-than-
temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to be collected are 

insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe 

the security will recover within the estimated recovery period. 

OTTI write-downs of PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the 

difference between the cost basis and fair value of the security. 

Based upon the factors considered in our OTTI evaluation, we 

believe our investments in PPS cu
rrently rated investment grade 
will be fully realized and, accordingly, have not recognized OTTI 

on such securities. 
For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI 
evaluations focus on whether evidence exists that supports 

recovery of the unrealized loss 
within a timeframe consistent 
with temporary impairment. Th
is evaluation considers the 
severity of and length of time fair value is below cost, our intent 

and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the 

fair value of the security, and the investee's financial condition, 

capital strength, and near-term prospects. 
The securities portfolio is an integral part of our 
asset/liability management process. We manage these 

investments to provide liquidity, manage interest rate risk and 

maximize portfolio yield within capital risk limits approved by 

management and the Board of Directors and monitored by the 

Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate 

ALCO). We recognize realized gains and losses on the sale of 

these securities in noninterest income using the specific 

identification method. 
Unamortized premiums and discounts are recognized in 
interest income over the contractual life of the security using the 

interest method. As principal 
repayments are received on 
securities (i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a 

proportionate amount of the related premium or discount is 

recognized in income so that the effective interest rate on the 

remaining portion of the security continues unchanged. 
HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES 
Debt securities for which 
the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to 

maturity are reported at historical cost adjusted for amortization 

of premiums and accretion of discounts. We recognize OTTI 

when there is a decline in fair market value and we do not expect 

to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. 

The amortized cost is written-down
 to fair value with the credit 
loss component recorded to earnings and the remaining 

component recognized in OCI. The OTTI assessment related to 

whether we expect recovery of the amortized cost basis and 

determination of any credit loss component recognized in 

earnings for held-to-maturity securities is the same as described 
for available-for-sale securities. Security transfers to the held-to-
maturity classification are accounte
d for at fair value. Unrealized 
gains or losses from the transfer of available for sale securities 

continue to be reported in cumulative OCI and are amortized 

into earnings over the remaining life of the security using the 

effective interest method. 
NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS 
Nonmarketable 
equity investments include low income housing tax credit 

investments, equity securities that are not publicly traded and 

securities acquired for various purposes, such as to meet 

regulatory requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and 

Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock). We elected the fair 

value option for certain of these investments. The rest of these 

investments are accounted for under the cost or equity method. 

All nonmarketable equity investments are included in other 

assets. We review those assets accounted for under the cost or 

equity method at least quarterly for possible OTTI. Our review 

typically includes an analysis of the facts and circumstances of 

each investment, the expectations for the investment's cash 

flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and 

our exit strategy. We reduce the asset value when we consider 

declines in value to be other than temporary. We recognize the 

estimated loss as a loss from equity investments in noninterest 

income. Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements 

Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold 

under repurchase agreements are accounted for as collateralized 

financing transactions and are recorded at the acquisition or sale 

price plus accrued interest. It is our policy to take possession of 

securities purchased under resale agreements, which are 

primarily U.S. Government and Government agency securities. 

We monitor the market value of securities purchased and sold, 

and obtain collateral from or return it to counterparties when 

appropriate. These financing transactions do not create material 

credit risk given the collateral provided and the related 

monitoring process. 
Mortgages and Loans Held for Sale 

Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and 

residential mortgages originated for sale and securitization in 

the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale 

as whole loans. We elect the fair value option for substantially all 

residential MHFS (see Note 17). The remaining residential 

MHFS are held at the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM), 

and are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis. Commercial 

MHFS are held at LOCOM and are valued on an individual loan 

basis. 
Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at LOCOM or at fair 
value. Generally, consumer loans are valued on an aggregate 

portfolio basis, and commercial loans are valued on an 

individual loan basis. 
Gains and losses on MHFS are recorded in mortgage banking 
noninterest income. Gains and losses on LHFS are recorded in 

other noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and fees 

for MHFS and LHFS under the fair value option are recognized 

in income at origination. For MHFS and LHFS recorded at 

LOCOM, loan costs and fees are deferred at origination and are 

recognized in income at time of sale. Interest income on MHFS 
Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
and LHFS is calculated based upon the note rate of the loan and 
is recorded to interest income. 
Our lines of business are authorized to originate held-for-
investment loans that meet or exceed established loan product 

profitability criteria, including minimum positive net interest 

margin spreads in excess of funding costs. When a 

determination is made at the time of commitment to originate 

loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans 

to maturity or for the ﬁforeseeable future,ﬂ subject to periodic 

review under our corporate asset/liability management process. 

In determining the ﬁforeseeable futureﬂ for these loans, 

management considers (1) the current economic environment 

and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current 

business plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivable, 

including its expected life, and (4) our current financial 

condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core 

banking business of managing the spread between the yield on 

our assets and the cost of our funds, loans are periodically re
-evaluated to determine if ou
r minimum net interest margin 
spreads continue to meet our profitability objectives. If 

subsequent changes in interest rates significantly impact the 

ongoing profitability of certain loan products, we may 

subsequently change our intent to hold these loans, and we 

would take actions to sell such loans in response to the 

Corporate ALCO directives to reposition our balance sheet 

because of the changes in interest rates. These directives identify 

both the type of loans to be sold and the weighted average 

coupon rate of such loans no longer meeting our ongoing 

investment criteria. Upon the issuance of such directives, we 

immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS portfolio at 

LOCOM. 
Loans 
Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of 

any unearned income, cumulati
ve charge-offs, unamortized 
deferred fees and costs on originated loans and unamortized 

premiums or discounts on purchased loans. PCI loans are 

reported net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. 

See the ﬁPurchased Credit-Impaired Loansﬂ section in this Note 

for our accounting policy for PCI loans. 
Unearned income, deferred fees and costs, and discounts and 
premiums are amortized to interest income over the contractual 

life of the loan using the interest method. Loan commitment fees 

are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on 

a straight-line basis over the commitment period. 
Loans also include direct financing leases that are recorded at 
the aggregate of minimum lease payments receivable plus the 

estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned 

income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing 

leases, are recorded net of related nonrecourse debt. Leasing 

income is recognized as a cons
tant percentage of outstanding 
lease financing balances over the lease terms in interest income. 
NONACCRUAL AND PAST DUE LOANS  
We generally place 
loans on nonaccrual status when: 
the full and timely collection of interest or principal 

becomes uncertain (generally based on an assessment of the 
borrower™s financial condition and the adequacy of 

collateral, if any); 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 

family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest 

or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of 

collection;  

part of the principal balance has been charged off (including 

loans discharged in bankruptcy); 
for junior lien mortgages, we 
have evidence that the related 
first lien mortgage may be 120 days past due or in the 
process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien 

delinquency status; or 

performing consumer loans are discharged in bankruptcy, 

regardless of their delinquency status. 
PCI loans are written down at acquisition to fair value using 
an estimate of cash flows deemed to be collectible. Accordingly, 

such loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even though 

they may be contractually past due because we expect to fully 

collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new 

cost basis arising out of purchase accounting). 
When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the 
accrued unpaid interest receivable against interest income and 

amortization of any net deferred fees is suspended. If the 

ultimate collectability of the recorded loan balance is in doubt on 

a nonaccrual loan, the cost recove
ry method is used and cash 
collected is applied to first redu
ce the carrying value of the loan. 
Otherwise, interest income may be recognized to the extent cash 

is received. Generally, we return a loan to accrual status when all 

delinquent interest and principal become current under the 

terms of the loan agreement and collectability of remaining 

principal and interest is no longer doubtful. 
For modified loans, we re-underwrite at the time of a 
restructuring to determine if there is sufficient evidence of 

sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower™s financial 

strength, including documented income, debt to income ratios 

and other factors. If the borrower has demonstrated 

performance under the previous terms and the underwriting 

process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the 

restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing 

status. When a loan classified as a troubled debt restructuring 

(TDR) performs in accordance with its modified terms, the loan 

either continues to accrue interest (for performing loans) or will 

return to accrual status after the borrower demonstrates a 

sustained period of performance (generally six consecutive 

months of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive 

payments made prior to the modification). Loans will be placed 

on nonaccrual status and a corresponding charge-off is recorded 

if we believe it is probable that principal and interest 

contractually due under the modified terms of the agreement 

will not be collectible. 
Our loans are considered past due when contractually 
required principal or interest payments have not been made on 

the due dates. 
LOAN CHARGE-OFF POLICIES 
For commercial loans, we 
generally fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value 
     (fair value of collateral, less estimated costs to sell) for loans 
secured by collateral when: 
   
 
 management judges the loan to be uncollectible; 
repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable 

time frames; 

the loan has been classified as a loss by either our internal 

loan review process or our banking regulatory agencies; 

the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes 

evident owing to a lack of assets; or 

the loan is 180 days past due unless both well-secured and 
in the process of collection. 
For consumer loans, we fully charge off or charge down to net 
realizable value when deemed uncollectible due to bankruptcy 

discharge or other factors, or no later than reaching a defined 

number of days past due, as follows: 
1-4 family first and junior li
en mortgages Œ We generally 
charge down to net realizable value when the loan is 

180 days past due. 
Auto loans Œ We generally fully charge off when the loan is 

120 days past due. 
Credit card loans Œ We generally fully charge off when the 

loan is 180 days past due. 
Unsecured loans (closed end) Œ We generally fully charge 

off when the loan is 120 days past due. 

Unsecured loans (open end) Œ We generally fully charge off 
when the loan is 180 days past due. 

Other secured loans Œ We generally fully or partially charge 

down to net realizable value when the loan is 120 days past 

due. IMPAIRED LOANS 
We consider a loan to be impaired when, 
based on current information and 
events, we determine that we 
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan 

contract, including scheduled interest payments. This evaluation 

is generally based on delinquency information, an assessment of 

the borrower™s financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, 

if any. Our impaired loans predominantly include loans on 

nonaccrual status for commercial and industrial, commercial 

real estate (CRE), foreign loans and any loans modified in a 

TDR, on both accrual and nonaccrual status. 
When we identify a loan as impaired, we generally measure 
the impairment, if any, based on the difference between the 

recorded investment in the loan (net of previous charge-offs, 

deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or 

discount) and the present value of expected future cash flows, 

discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate. When the value of 

an impaired loan is calculated by discounting expected cash 

flows, interest income is recognized using the loan™s effective 

interest rate over the remaining life of the loan. When collateral 

is the sole source of repayment for the impaired loan, rather 

than the borrower™s income or other sources of repayment, we 

charge down to net realizable value. 
TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS 
In situations where, for 
economic or legal reasons related to a borrower™s financial 

difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant 

period of time to the borrower that we would not otherwise 
consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. These modified 

terms may include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, term 

extensions, payment forbearance and other actions intended to 

minimize our economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or 

repossession of the collateral. For modifications where we 

forgive principal, the entire amount of such principal forgiveness 

is immediately charged off. Loans classified as TDRs, including 

loans in trial payment periods (trial modifications), are 

considered impaired loans. Other than resolutions such as 

foreclosures, sales and transfers to held-for- sale, we may 
remove loans held for investment from TDR classification, but 

only if they have been refinanced or restructured at market 

terms and qualify as a new loan. 
PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED LOANS 
Loans acquired with 
evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and where 

it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required 

principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI loans are 

recorded at fair value at the 
date of acquisition, and the 
historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not 

carried over. Some loans that otherwise meet the definition as 

credit-impaired are specifically excluded from the PCI loan 

portfolios, such as revolving loans where the borrower still has 

revolving privileges. 
Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase 
date may include statistics such as past due and nonaccrual 

status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores 

and recent loan-to-value percentages. Generally, acquired loans 

that meet our definition for nonaccrual status are considered to 

be credit-impaired. Substantially all commercial an
d industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, 

consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based on 

common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a 

single asset with a single composite interest rate and an 

aggregate expectation of cash flows. 
Accounting for PCI loans involves estimating fair value, at 
acquisition, using the principal and interest cash flows expected 

to be collected discounted at the prevailing market rate of 

interest. The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over 

the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is 

referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest 

income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of 

the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash 

flows to be collected. The difference between contractually 

required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at 

acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred 

to as the nonaccretable difference. 
Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our 
estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. If we have 

probable decreases in cash flows expected to be collected (other 
than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in 

prepayment assumptions), we ch
arge the provision for credit 
losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If 

we have probable and significant increases in cash flows 

expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously 

established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest 
    
 Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life 
of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are 

impacted by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate 

loans and prepayment assumptions, both of which are treated as 

prospective yield adjustments included in interest income. 
Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third 
parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or 

foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans, gains or 

losses on sales to third parties are included in noninterest 

income, and gains or losses as a result of a settlement with the 

borrower are included in interest
 income. Our policy is to 
remove an individual loan from a pool based on comparing the 

amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. 

Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the 

nonaccretable difference for the entire pool. This removal 

method assumes that the amount received from resolution 

approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining 

accretable yield balance is unaffe
cted and any material change in 
remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is 

addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each 

pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no 

release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there 

is no difference between the amount received at resolution and 

the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not 

removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be 

deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for 

individually are considered TDRs, and removed from PCI 

accounting if there has been a concession granted in excess of 

the original nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in 

our impaired loans. 
FORECLOSED ASSETS
  Foreclosed assets obtained through our 
lending activities primarily include real estate. Generally, loans 

have been written down to their net realizable value prior to 

foreclosure. Any further reduction to their net realizable value is 

recorded with a charge to the allowance for credit losses at 

foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after foreclosure to finalize 

determination of net realizable value. Thereafter, changes in net 

realizable value are recorded to noninterest expense. The net 

realizable value of these assets is reviewed and updated 

periodically depending on the type of property. 
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (ACL) 
The allowance for 
credit losses is management™s estimate of credit losses inherent 

in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at 

the balance sheet date. We have an established process to 

determine the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses 

that assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio and related 

unfunded credit commitments. Whil
e we attribute portions of 
the allowance to our respective commercial and consumer 

portfolio segments, the entire allowance is available to absorb 

credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded 

credit commitments. 
Our process involves procedures to appropriately consider 
the unique risk characteristics of our commercial and consumer 

loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio segment, losses are 

estimated collectively for groups of loans with similar 

characteristics, individually or pooled for impaired loans or, for 
PCI loans, based on the changes in cash flows expected to be 

collected. 
Our allowance levels are influenced by loan volumes, loan 
grade migration or delinquency status, historic loss experience 

influencing loss factors, and other conditions influencing loss 

expectations, such as economic conditions. 
COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY 
Generally, commercial loans are assessed for estimated losses by 

grading each loan using various risk factors as identified through 

periodic reviews. We apply historic grade-specific loss factors to 

the aggregation of each funded grade pool. These historic loss 

factors are also used to estimate losses for unfunded credit 

commitments. In the development of our statistically derived 

loan grade loss factors, we observe historical losses over a 

relevant period for each loan grade. These loss estimates are 

adjusted as appropriate based on additional analysis of long-

term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted 

losses, external loss data or other risks identified from current 

economic conditions and credit quality trends. 
The allowance also includes an amount for the estimated 
impairment on nonaccrual commercial loans and commercial 

loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual 

status. 
CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY 
For consumer loans that are not identified as a TDR, we 

determine the allowance predominantly on a collective basis 

utilizing forecasted losses to represent our best estimate of 

inherent loss. We pool loans, generally by product types with 

similar risk characteristics, such as residential real estate 

mortgages and credit cards. As appropriate and to achieve 

greater accuracy, we may further stratify selected portfolios by 

sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic 

location and other predictive characteristics. Models designed 

for each pool are utilized to develop the loss estimates. We use 

assumptions for these pools in our forecast models, such as 

historic delinquency and default, loss severity, home price 

trends, unemployment trends, and other key economic variables 

that may influence the frequency and severity of losses in the 

pool. 
In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our 
residential mortgage portfolio,
 we take into consideration 
portfolios determined to be at elevated risk, such as junior lien 

mortgages behind delinquent first lien mortgages and junior lien 

lines of credit subject to near term significant payment increases. 

We incorporate the default rates and high severity of loss for 

these higher risk portfolios, including the impact of our 

established loan modification programs. When modifications 

occur or are probable to occur, our allowance considers the 

impact of these modifications, 
taking into consideration the 
associated credit cost, including re-defaults of modified loans 

and projected loss severity. Accordingly, the loss content 

associated with the effects of existing and probable loan 

modifications and higher risk portfolios has been captured in our 

allowance methodology. 
We separately estimate impairment for consumer loans that 
have been modified in a TDR (including trial modifications), 
whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. 
OTHER ACL MATTERS
  The allowance for credit losses for both 
portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or 

uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount 

represents management™s judgment of risks inherent in the 

processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. 

This imprecision considers economic environmental factors, 

modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and other 

subjective factors, including industry trends and risk 

assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government 

agencies regarding settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related 

matters. 
Securitizations and Beneficial Interests 
In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the 

applicable criteria to be accounted for as a sale, assets are sold to 

an entity referred to as an SPE, which then issues beneficial 

interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests 

collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain 

beneficial interests issued by th
e entity. Additionally, from time 
to time, we may also re-securitize certain assets in a new 

securitization transaction. 
The assets and liabilities transferred to an SPE are excluded 
from our consolidated balance sheet if the transfer qualifies as a 

sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE. 
For transfers of financial assets recorded as sales, we 
recognize and initially measure at fair value all assets obtained 

(including beneficial interests) and liabilities incurred. We 

record a gain or loss in noninterest income for the difference 

between the carrying amount and the fair value of the assets 

sold. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, quoted 

market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are not 

available, then the fair value is estimated using discounted cash 

flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments 

and discount rates that are corroborated by and verified against 

market observable data, where possible. Retained interests and 

liabilities incurred from securitizations with off-balance sheet 

entities, including SPEs and VIEs, where we are not the primary 

beneficiary, are classified as investment securities, trading 

account assets, loans, MSRs or other liabilities (including 

liabilities for mortgage repurchase losses) and are accounted for 

as described herein. 
Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs) 
We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or 

MSRs, as assets whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs 

result from a sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset 

transfers). We initially record all of our MSRs at fair value. 

Subsequently, residential loan MSRs are carried at fair value. All 

of our MSRs related to our commercial mortgage loans are 

subsequently measured at LOCOM. 
We base the fair value of MSRs on the present value of 
estimated future net servicing income cash flows. We estimate 

future net servicing income cash flows with assumptions that 

market participants would use to estimate fair value, including 
estimates of prepayment speeds (which are influenced by 

changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior, 

including estimates for borrower default), discount rates, cost to 

service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow 

account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary 

income and late fees. Our valuation approach is validated by our 

internal valuation model validation group, and our valuation 

estimates are benchmarked to third party appraisals on a 

quarterly basis. 
Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to the 
collection/realization of expected cash flows, as well as changes 

in valuation inputs and assumptions. For MSRs carried at fair 

value, changes in fair value are reported in noninterest income in 

the period in which the change occurs. MSRs subsequently 

measured at LOCOM are amortized in proportion to, and over 

the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization 

of MSRs is reported in noninterest income, analyzed monthly 

and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as 

other factors. 
MSRs accounted for at LOCOM are periodically evaluated for 
impairment based on the fair value of those assets. For purposes 

of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify MSRs 

based on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying 

loans, including investor and product type. If, by individual 

stratum, the carrying amount of these MSRs exceeds fair value, a 

valuation reserve is established. The valuation reserve is 

adjusted as the fair value changes. 
Premises and Equipment 
Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated 

depreciation and amortization. Capital leases, where we are the 

lessee, are included in premises and equipment at the capitalized 

amount less accumulated amortization. 
We primarily use the straight-line method of depreciation 
and amortization. Estimated useful lives range up to 40 years for 

buildings, up to 10 years for furniture and equipment, and the 

shorter of the estimated useful life (up to 8 years) or the lease 

term for leasehold improvements. We amortize capitalized 

leased assets on a straight-line basis over the lives of the 
respective leases. 
Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 

Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under the 

purchase method of accounting when the purchase price is 

higher than the fair value of net assets, including identifiable 

intangible assets. 
We assess goodwill for impairment at a reporting unit level 
on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. 

We have determined that our reporting units are one level below 

the operating segments. We have the option of performing a 

qualitative assessment of goodwill. We may also elect to bypass 

the qualitative test and proceed di
rectly to a quantitative test. 
We initially perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill to test 

for impairment. If, based on our qualitative review, we conclude 

that more likely than not a reporting unit™s fair value is less than 

its carrying amount, then we complete quantitative steps as 

described below to determine if there is goodwill impairment. If 

we conclude that a reporting unit™s fair value is not less than its 
Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
carrying amount, quantitative te
sts are not required. We assess 
goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level and apply 
various quantitative valuation methodologies when required to 

compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each 

reporting unit. Valuation methodologies include discounted cash 

flow and earnings multiple approaches. If the fair value is less 

than the carrying amount, an additional test is required to 

measure the amount of impairment. We recognize impairment 

losses as a charge to noninterest expense (unless related to 

discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the carrying 

value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent reversals of goodwill 

impairment are prohibited. 
We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship 
intangibles on an accelerated basis over useful lives not 

exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment 

whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their 

carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is 

indicated if the sum of undiscounted estimated future net cash 

flows is less than the carrying value of the asset. Impairment is 

permanently recognized by writin
g down the asset to the extent 
that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. 
Operating Lease Assets 
Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in 

other income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Related 
depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life, considering the estimated residual value of 

the leased asset. The useful life may be adjusted to the term of 

the lease depending on our plans for the asset after the lease 

term. On a periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for 

impairment. Impairment loss is recognized if the carrying 

amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. 

The carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if it 

exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to 

result from the lease payments and the estimated residual value 

upon the eventual disposition of the equipment. 
Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 
We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) government-sponsored entities (GSEs) Federal Home Loan 

Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National Mortgage 

Association (FNMA) who include the mortgage loans in GSE-

guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs that issue private 

label MBS, and (3) other financ
ial institutions that purchase 
mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In 

addition, we pool Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-

insured and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed 
mortgage loans, which back securities guaranteed by the 

Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). 
We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, 
indemnify the securitization trus
t, investor or insurer, or 
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit 

losses incurred on loans (collectively ﬁrepurchaseﬂ) in the event 

of a breach of specified contractual representations or warranties 

that are not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) 

after we receive notice of the breach. Our loan sale contracts to 

private investors (non-GSE) typically contain an additional 
provision where we would only be required to repurchase 
securitized loans if a breach is deemed to have a material and 

adverse effect on the value of the mortgage loan or to the 

investors or interests of security holders in the mortgage loan. 
We establish a mortgage repurchase liability, initially at fair 
value, related to various representations and warranties that 

reflect management™s estimate of losses for loans for which we 

could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently 

service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such 

factors include default expectations, expected investor 

repurchase demands (influenced by current and expected 

mortgage loan file requests and mortgage insurance rescission 

notices, as well as estimated levels of origination defects) and 

appeals success rates (where the investor rescinds the demand 

based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan 

satisfies the investor™s applicable representations and 

warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third 

party originators, and projected loss severity. We continually 

update our mortgage repurchase liability estimate during the life 

of the loans. Although activity can vary by investor, investors 

may demand repurchase at any time and there is often a lag from 

the date of default to the time we receive a repurchase demand. 

The majority of repurchase demands are on loans that default in 

the first 24 to 36 months following origination of the mortgage 

loan. 
The liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included 
in other liabilities. For additional information on our repurchase 

liability, see Note 9. 
Pension Accounting 
We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an 

actuarial model. Two principal assumptions in determining net 
periodic pension cost are the discount rate and the expected long 

term rate of return on plan assets. 
A discount rate is used to estimate the present value of our 
future pension benefit obligations. We use a consistent 

methodology to determine the discount rate based upon the 

yields on multiple portfolios of bonds with maturity dates that 

closely match the estimated timing and amounts of the expected 

benefit payments for our plans. Such portfolios are derived from 

a broad-based universe of high quality corporate bonds as of the 
measurement date. 
Our determination of the reasonableness of our expected 
long-term rate of return on plan assets is highly quantitative by 

nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected 

returns under two sets of conditions: projected returns using 

several forward-looking capital market assumptions, and 

historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970 

or the earliest period for which historical data was readily 

available for the asset classes included. Using long term 

historical data allows us to capture multiple economic 

environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical 

returns. We place greater emphasis on the forward-looking 

return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use 

the resulting projections to derive a base line expected rate of 

return and risk level for the Cash Balance Plan™s prescribed asset 

mix. We evaluate the portfolio based on: (1) the established 

target asset allocations over short term (one-year) and longer 

term (ten-year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of 
potential outcomes over these horizons within specific standard 
deviations. We perform the above analyses to assess the 

reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan 

assets. We consider the expected rate of return to be a long-term 
average view of expected returns. The use of an expected long 

term rate of return on plan assets may cause us to recognize 

pension income returns that are greater or less than the actual 

returns of plan assets in any given year. Differences between 

expected and actual returns in each
 year, if any, are included in 
our net actuarial gain or loss amount, which is recognized in 

OCI. We generally amortize net actuarial gain or loss in excess of 

a 5% corridor from accumulated OCI into net periodic pension 

cost over the estimated average remaining participation period, 

which at December 31, 2013, is 16 years. See Note 20 for 

additional information on our pension accounting. 
Income Taxes 
We file consolidated and separa
te company federal income tax 
returns, foreign tax returns and various combined and separate 

company state tax returns. 
We evaluate two components of income tax expense: current 
and deferred. Current income tax expense represents our 

estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and 

includes income tax expense re
lated to our uncertain tax 

positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the 

balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax 

asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences 

between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and 

recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in 

which they occur. Deferred income tax expense results from 

changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. 

Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management's 

judgment that realization is ﬁmore likely than not.ﬂ Uncertain tax 

positions that meet the more likely than not recognition 

threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to 

recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest 

amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 

50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not 

meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax 

benefits. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as credits to 

reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for interest and 

penalties as a component of income tax expense. 
Stock-Based Compensation 
We have stock-based employee compensation plans as more 

fully discussed in Note 19. Our Long-Term Incentive 
Compensation Plan provides for awards of incentive and 

nonqualified stock options, stock 
appreciation rights, restricted 
shares, restricted share rights (RSRs), performance share awards 

(PSAs) and stock awards without restrictions. For most awards, 

we measure the cost of employee services received in exchange 

for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options, RSRs 

or PSAs, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. 

The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over 

the vesting period of the award; awards with graded vesting are 

expensed on a straight line method. Awards that continue to vest 

after retirement are expensed over the shorter of the period of 

time between the grant date and the final vesting period or 
between the grant date and 
when a team member becomes 
retirement eligible; awards to team members who are retirement 

eligible at the grant date are subject to immediate expensing 

upon grant. 
In 2013, certain RSRs and all PSAs granted include 
discretionary performance based vesting conditions and are 

subject to variable accounting. For these awards, the associated 

compensation expense fluctuates with changes in our stock 

price. For PSAs, compensation expense also fluctuates based on 

the estimated outcome of meeting the performance conditions
 Earnings Per Common Share 

We compute earnings per common share by dividing net income 

(after deducting dividends on preferred stock) by the average 

number of common shares outstanding during the year. We 

compute diluted earnings per common share by dividing net 

income (after deducting dividends and related accretion on 

preferred stock) by the average number of common shares 

outstanding during the year, plus the effect of common stock 

equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted share rights, 

convertible debentures and wa
rrants) that are dilutive. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements in our fair value disclosures and 

to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring 

basis, such as trading assets, or on a nonrecurring basis such as 

measuring impairment on assets carried at amortized cost. 
DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE 
We base our fair values on 
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 

transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 

participants at the measurement date. These fair value 

measurements are based on exit prices and determined by 

maximizing the use of observable inputs. However, for certain 

instruments we must utilize unobservable inputs in determining 

fair value due to the lack of observable inputs in the market, 

which requires greater judgment in measuring fair value. 
In instances where there is limited or no observable market 
data, fair value measurements for assets and liabilities are based 

primarily upon our own estimates or combination of our own 

estimates and third-party vendor or broker pricing, and the 

measurements are often calculated based on current pricing for 

products we offer or issue, the economic and competitive 

environment, the characteristics of the asset or liability and 

other such factors. As with any valuation technique used to 

estimate fair value, changes in underlying assumptions used, 

including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, 

could significantly affect the results of current or future values. 

Accordingly, these fair value estimates may not be realized in an 

actual sale or immediate settlement of the asset or liability. 
We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value 
measurement based on the type of asset or liability measured 

and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain 

residential MHFS and certain securities where the significant 

inputs have become unobservable due to illiquid markets and 

vendor or broker pricing is not used, we use a discounted cash 

flow technique to measure fair value. This technique 

incorporates forecasting of expe
cted cash flows (adjusted for 
Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
credit loss assumptions and es
timated prepayment speeds) 
discounted at an appropriate market discount rate to reflect the 
lack of liquidity in the market that a market participant would 

consider. For other securities where vendor or broker pricing is 

used, we use either unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or 

vendor or broker prices adjusted by weighting them with 

internal discounted cash flow techniques to measure fair value. 

These unadjusted vendor or broker prices inherently reflect any 

lack of liquidity in the market, as the fair value measurement 

represents an exit price from a market participant viewpoint. 
Where markets are inactive and transactions are not orderly, 
transaction or quoted prices for assets or liabilities in inactive 

markets may require adjustment due to the uncertainty of 

whether the underlying transactions are orderly. For items that 

use price quotes in inactive markets, we analyze the degree of 

market inactivity and distressed transactions to determine the 

appropriate adjustment to the price quotes. 
We continually assess the level and volume of market activity 
in our investment security classes in determining adjustments, if 

any, to price quotes. Given market conditions can change over 

time, our determination of which securities markets are 

considered active or inactive can change. If we determine a 

market to be inactive, the degree to which price quotes require 

adjustment, can also change. See Note 17 for discussion of the 

fair value hierarchy and valuation methodologies applied to 

financial instruments to determine fair value. 
Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
We recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. 

On the date we enter into a derivative contract, we designate the 

derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or 

liability, including hedges of foreign currency exposure (ﬁfair 

value hedgeﬂ), (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the 

variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a 

recognized asset or liability (ﬁcash flow hedgeﬂ), or (3) held for 

trading, customer accommodation or asset/liability risk 

management purposes, including economic hedges not 

qualifying for hedge accounting. For a fair value hedge, we 

record changes in the fair value 
of the derivative and, to the 
extent that it is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged 

asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk, in current period 

earnings in the same financial statement category as the hedged 

item. For a cash flow hedge, we 
record changes in the fair value 
of the derivative to the extent that it is effective in OCI, with any 

ineffectiveness recorded in current period earnings. We 

subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income 

in the same period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net 

income in the same financial statement category as the hedged 

item. For free-standing derivatives, we report changes in the fair 

values in current period noninterest income. 
For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying for hedge 
accounting, we formally document at inception the relationship 

between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk 

management objective, strategy and our evaluation of 

effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This includes linking all 

derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to 

specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific 

forecasted transactions. Periodically, as required, we also 
formally assess whether the derivative we designated in each 

hedging relationship is expected to be and has been highly 

effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the 

hedged item using the regression analysis method or, in limited 

cases, the dollar offset method. 
We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when (1) a 
derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in 

the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative 

expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, (3) we elect to 

discontinue the designation of a derivative as a hedge, or (4) in a 

cash flow hedge, a derivative is de-designated because it is not 

probable that a forecasted transaction will occur. 
When we discontinue fair value hedge accounting, we no 
longer adjust the previously hedged asset or liability for changes 

in fair value, and cumulative adjustments to the hedged item are 

accounted for in the same manner as other components of the 

carrying amount of the asset or liability. If the derivative 

continues to be held after fair value hedge accounting ceases, we 

carry the derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value with 

changes in fair value included in earnings. 
When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting and it is 
not probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur, the 

accumulated amount reported in OCI at the de-designation date 

continues to be reported in OCI until the forecasted transaction 

affects earnings. If cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued 

and it is probable the forecasted transaction will not occur, the 

accumulated amount reported in OCI at the de-designation date 

is immediately recognized in 
earnings. If the derivative 
continues to be held after cash 
flow hedge accounting ceases, we 
carry the derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value with 

future changes in fair value included in earnings. 
We occasionally purchase or originate financial instruments 
that contain an embedded derivative. At inception of the 

financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic 

characteristics of the embedded derivative are not clearly and 

closely related to the economic characteristics of the financial 

instrument (host contract), (2) if
 the financial instrument that 

embodies both the embedded derivative and the host contract is 

not measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in 

earnings, and (3) if a separate in
strument with the same terms as 
the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a 

derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these 

conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording 

the bifurcated derivative at fair value and the remaining host 

contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid 

instrument and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The 

bifurcated derivative is carried as a free-standing derivative at 

fair value with changes recorded in current period earnings. 
By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit 
risk, which is the risk that counterparties to the derivative 

contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to 

perform, our counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount 

reported as a derivative asset on our balance sheet. The amounts 

reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain 

position, and to the extent subject to legally enforceable master 

netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with 

the same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize 

counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, 
monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements 
and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. To the extent 

derivatives subject to master netting arrangements meet the 

applicable requirements, including determining the legal 

enforceability of the arrangement, it is our policy to present 

derivatives balances and related cash collateral amounts net on 

the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives 

is considered in determining fair value and our assessment of 

hedge effectiveness. 
Private Share Repurchases 
During 2013 and 2012, we repurchased approximately 
40 million shares and 36 million shares, respectively, under 

private forward repurchase contracts. We enter into these 

transactions with unrelated third parties to complement our 

open-market common stock repurchase strategies, to allow us to 
manage our share repurchases in a manner consistent with our 

capital plans, currently submitted under the 2013 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), and to 

provide an economic benefit to the Company. 
Our payments to the counterparties for these private share 
repurchase contracts are recorded in permanent equity in the 

quarter paid and are not subject to re-measurement. The 
classification of the up-front payments as permanent equity 

assures that we have appropriate repurchase timing consistent 

with our 2013 capital plan, which contemplated a fixed dollar 

amount available per quarter for share repurchases pursuant to 

Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervisory guidance. In return, 

the counterparty agrees to deliver a variable number of shares 

based on a per share discount to the volume-weighted average 

stock price over the contract period. There are no scenarios 

where the contracts would not either physically settle in shares 

or allow us to choose the settlement method. 
In December 2013, we ente
red into a private forward 
repurchase contract and paid $500 million to an unrelated third 

party. This contract is expected to settle in first quarter 2014. At 

December 31, 2012, we had a $200 million private forward 

repurchase contract outstanding that settled in first quarter 2013 

for 6 million shares of common stock. Our total number of 

outstanding shares of common stock is not reduced until 

settlement of the private 
share repurchase contract. 
Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION 
Noncash activities are presented below, including information on transfers affecting 
MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs.
 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
2013 
2012 2011 Transfers from trading assets to available-for-sale securities 
$ --47 Transfers from (to) loans to (from) available-for-sale securities
 (77)
 921 2,822 Trading assets retained from securitizations of MHFS
 47,198 
85,108 61,599 Capitalization of MSRs from sale of MHFS
 3,616 
4,988 4,089 Transfers from MHFS to foreclosed assets
 127 223 224 Transfers from loans to MHFS
 7,610 
7,584 6,305 Transfers from loans to LHFS
 274 143 129 Transfers from loans to foreclosed assets (1)
 4,470 
6,114 7,594 Transfers from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity securities
 6,042 
--Transfers from noncontrolling interests to other liabilities
 750 --Changes in consolidations (deconsolidations) of variable interest entities:
 Trading assets
 1,950 
-- Available-for-sale securities
 - (40) 
7  Loans
 (2,268)
 (245) 
(599)
 Long-term debt
 (354)
 (293) 
(628) 
Consolidation of reverse mortgages previously sold:
 Loans
 --5,483 Long-term debt
 --5,425 (1) Includes $2.7 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.4 billion in transfers of government insured/guaranteed loans for the years ended De
cember 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Prior years have been revised to correct previously reported amounts. 
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
We have evaluated the effects of events 
that have occurred subsequent to December 31, 2013, and there 
have been no material events that would require recognition in 

our 2013 consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the 

Notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
Note 2:  Business Combinations 
We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services 
companies and businesses. Generally, we do not make a public 

announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a 

definitive agreement has been signed. For information on 

additional contingent consideration related to acquisitions, 

which is considered to be a guarantee, see Note 14. 
We did not complete any acquisitions of businesses during 
2013. Business combinations completed in 2012 and 2011 are 

presented below. Additionally, we had no pending business 

combinations as of December 31, 2013. 
(in millions) 
Date  Assets 
2012 
EverKey Global Partners Limited / EverKey Global Management LLC / 
EverKey Global Partners (GP), LLC / EverKey Global Focus (GP), LLC Œ Bahamas/New York, New York 
January 1 
$ 7 Burdale Financial Holdings Limited / Certain Assets of Burdale Capital Finance, Inc. Œ England/Stamford, Connecticut 
February 1 
874 Energy Lending Business of BNP Paribas, SA Œ Houston, Texas 
April 20 
 3,639 
Merlin Securities, LLC / Merlin Canada LTD. / Certain Assets and Liabilities 
of Merlin Group Holdings, LLC Œ San Francisco, California/Toronto, Ontario 
August 1
 281 
2011 
$ 4,801 
CP Equity, LLC Œ Denver, Colorado 
July 1  
$ 389 
Certain assets of Foreign Currency Exchange Corp Œ Orlando, Florida 
August 1
46 LaCrosse Holdings, LLC Œ Minneapolis, Minnesota 
November 30  
116 Other (1) 
Various 
37 $ 588 
(1) Consists of seven acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 
Note 3:  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 
Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of 
our subsidiary banks maintain reserve balances on deposit with 

the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reserve balance 

was $11.8 billion in 2013 and $9.1 billion in 2012. 
Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit 
and non-credit transactions between a bank and its nonbank 

affiliates. They may not exceed 10% of the bank's capital and 

surplus (which for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 

capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital (RBC) 

guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses 

excluded from Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate 

and 20% of the bank's capital and surplus with all its nonbank 

affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of credit may require 

collateral to be held to provide added security to the bank. For 

further discussion of RBC, see Note 26 in this Report. 
Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various 
federal and state regulatory limitations. Dividends that may be 

paid by a national bank without the express approval of the 

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to 

that bank's retained net profits for the preceding two calendar 

years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend 

declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as 

defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends 

declared during the period
. We also have a state-chartered subsidiary bank that is subject 
to state regulations that limit dividends. Under these provisions 

and regulatory limitations, our national and state-chartered 
subsidiary banks could have declared additional dividends of 
$5.1 billion at December 31, 2013, without obtaining prior 

regulatory approval. We have elected to retain capital at our 

national and state-chartered subsidiary banks to meet new 

regulatory requirements associated with the implementation of 

Basel III. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain 

federal and state statutory provisions and regulations covering 

the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year. 

Based on retained earnings at December 31, 2013, our nonbank 

subsidiaries could have declared additional dividends of 

$7.7 billion at December 31, 2013, without obtaining prior 

approval. 
The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in first 
quarter 2009, SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and 

Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, 

and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies, pertaining 

to FRB's criteria, assessment and approval process for 

reductions in capital. The FRB supplemented this guidance with 

the Capital Plan Rule issued in fourth quarter 2011 (codified at 

12 CFR 225.8 of Regulation Y) that establishes capital planning 

and prior notice and approval requirements for capital 

distributions including dividends by certain bank holding 

companies. The effect of this guidance is to require the approval 

of the FRB (or specifically under the Capital Plan Rule, a notice 

of non-objection) for the Company to repurchase or redeem 
common or perpetual preferred stock as well as to raise the per 

share quarterly dividend from its current level of $0.30 per 

share as declared by the Company™s Board of Directors on 

January 28, 2014, payable on March 1, 2014. 
Note 4:  Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other 
Short-Term Investments 
The following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, 
securities purchased under short-term resale agreements 

(generally less than one year) and other short-term investments. 
The majority of interest-earning deposits at December 31, 2013 

and 2012, were held at the Federal Reserve. 
(in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
Dec. 31, 
2012 Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements 
$ 25,801 
33,884 Interest-earning deposits
 186,249 
102,408 Other short-term investments
 1,743 
1,021 Total 
$ 213,793 
137,313 We have classified securities purchased under long-term 
resale agreements (generally one year or more), which totaled 

$10.1 billion and $9.5 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively, in loans. For additional information on the 

collateral we receive from other entities under resale agreements 

and securities borrowings, see the ﬁOffsetting of Resale and 

Repurchase Agreements and Securities Borrowing and Lending 

Agreementsﬂ section of Note 14. 
Note 5:  Investment Securities 
The following table provides the amortized cost and fair value by 
major categories of available-for-sale securities, which are 
carried at fair value, and held-to-maturity debt securities, which 
are carried at amortized cost. The net unrealized gains (losses) 
for available-for-sale securities are reported on an after-tax basis 

as a component of cumulative OCI. There were no securities 

classified as held-to-maturity as of December 31, 2012.
(in millions) 
Cost 
Gross  unrealized 
gains 
Grossunrealized 
losses 
Fair 
value 
December 31, 2013 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$ 6,592
 17
 (329)
 6,280 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 42,171 
 1,092 
 (727)
 42,536 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 119,303 
 1,902 
 (3,614)
 117,591 
Residential 
 11,060 
 1,433 
 (40)
 12,453 
Commercial
 17,689 
 1,173 
 (115)
 18,747 
Total mortgage-backed securities 
 148,052 
 4,508 
 (3,769)
 148,791 
Corporate debt securities 
 20,391 
976  (140)
 21,227 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
(1)
 19,610 
642  (93)
 20,159 
Other 
(2)
 9,232 
426  (29)
 9,629 
Total debt securities
 246,048 
 7,661 
 (5,087)
 248,622 
Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 1,703
 222
 (60)
 1,865 
Other marketable equity securities
 336  1,188 
 (4)
 1,520 
Total marketable equity securities
 2,039 
 1,410 
 (64)
 3,385 
Total available-for-sale securities
 248,087 
 9,071 
 (5,151)
 252,007 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
Federal agency mortgage-backed securities
 6,304
 - (99)
 6,205 
Other 
(2)
 6,042 
-- 6,042 
Total held-to-maturity securities
 12,346
 - (99)
 12,247 
Total 
(3) 
$ 260,433 
 9,071 
 (5,250)
 264,254 
December 31, 2012 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$ 7,099
 47 -7,146 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
37,120 2,000 (444) 
38,676 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 92,855 4,434 (4)
 97,285 Residential  
14,178 1,802 (49)
 15,931 Commercial
 18,438 1,798 (268)
 19,968 Total mortgage-backed securities 
125,471 8,034 (321) 
133,184 Corporate debt securities
 20,120 1,282 (69)
 21,333 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations (1) 
12,726 557 (95) 
13,188 Other (2)
 18,410 553  (76)
 18,887 Total debt securities 
220,946 12,473 (1,005) 
232,414 Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities 
1,935 281 (40) 
2,176 Other marketable equity securities
 402 216  (9)
 609 Total marketable equity securities 
2,337 497 (49) 
2,785 Total (3) 
$ 223,283
 12,970 (1,054)
 235,199 (1) Includes collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) with a cost basis and fair value of $509 million and $693 million, respectively
, at December 31, 2013, and $556 million and 
$644 million, respectively at December 31, 2012. 
(2) Included in the ﬁOtherﬂ category of available-for-sale securities are asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases or 
loans and cash reserves with a cost basis and fair 
value of $500 million and $513 million, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $5.9 billion each at December 31, 2012. The rem
aining balances in the ﬁOtherﬂ category of 
available-for-sale securities primarily include asset-backed securities collateralized by credit cards, student loans and home 
equity loans. Included in the ﬁOtherﬂ category of 
held-to-maturity securities are asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves with a cost ba
sis and fair value of $4.3 billion each at 
December 31, 2013. Also included in the ﬁOtherﬂ category of held-to-maturity securities are asset-backed securities collaterali
zed by dealer floorplan loans with a cost basis 
and fair value of $1.7 billion each at December 31, 2013. 
(3) At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we held no securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury and federal agencies) wi
th a book value that exceeded 10% of 
stockholders™ equity. 
Note 5:  Investment Securities 
(continued) 
Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value 
The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair 
value of securities in the investment securities portfolio by 

length of time that individual securities in each category had 

been in a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we 
have taken credit-related OTTI write-downs are categorized as 

being ﬁless than 12 monthsﬂ or ﬁ12 months or moreﬂ in a 

continuous loss position based on the point in time that the fair 

value declined to below the cost basis and not the period of time 

since the credit-related OTTI write-down. 
Less than 12 months 
12 months or more   
Total 
(in millions) 
Gross  
unrealized 
losses 
Fair 
value  
unrealized 
Gross losses 
Fair 
value  
Gross unrealized 
losses 
Fair 
value 
December 31, 2013 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$ (329)
 5,786 
-- (329)
 5,786 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 (399)
 9,238 
 (328)
 4,120 
 (727)
 13,358 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 (3,562)
 67,045 
 (52)
 1,132 
 (3,614)
 68,177 
Residential
 (18)
 1,242 
 (22)
 232  (40)
 1,474 
Commercial
 (15)
 2,128 
 (100)
 2,027 
 (115)
 4,155 
Total mortgage-backed securities
 (3,595)
 70,415 
 (174)
 3,391 
 (3,769)
 73,806 
Corporate debt securities
 (85)
 2,542 
 (55)
 428  (140)
 2,970 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 (55)
 7,202 
 (38)
 343  (93)
 7,545 
Other
 (11)
 1,690 
 (18)
 365  (29)
 2,055 
Total debt securities
 (4,474)
 96,873 
 (613)
 8,647 
 (5,087)
 105,520 
Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securiti
es (28)
 424  (32)
 308  (60)
732 Other marketable equity securities
 (4)
 34
-- (4)
34 Total marketable equity securities
 (32)
 458  (32)
 308  (64)
766 Total available-for-sale securities
 (4,506)
 97,331 
 (645)
 8,955 
 (5,151)
 106,286 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
Federal agency mortgage-backed securities
 (99)
 6,153 
-- (99)
 6,153 
Total held-to-maturity securities
 (99)
 6,153 
-- (99)
 6,153 
Total 
$  (4,605)
 103,484 
 (645)
 8,955 
 (5,250)
 112,439 
December 31, 2012 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$ -
- -- - -Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
(55) 
2,709
 (389)
 4,662 (444) 
7,371 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies 
(4) 
2,247-- (4)
2,247 Residential  
(4) 
261
 (45)
 1,564 (49) 
1,825 Commercial 
(6) 
491  (262)
 2,564 (268)
3,055 Total mortgage-backed securities 
(14) 
2,999 (307)
 4,128 (321)
7,127 Corporate debt securities
 (14)
 1,217 (55)
 305  (69)
1,522 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
(2) 
1,485 (93)
 798  (95)
2,283 Other (11)
 2,153 (65)
 1,010 (76) 
3,163  
Total debt securities 
(96) 
10,563 (909) 
10,903 (1,005)
21,466 Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities 
(3) 
116  (37)
 538  (40)
654 Other marketable equity securities
 (9) 
48 -- (9)
 48 
Total marketable equity securities 
(12) 
164  (37)
 538 (49) 
702 Total 
$ (108) 
10,727 (946)
 11,441 (1,054)
22,168 We do not have the intent to sell any securities included in 
the previous table. For debt securities included in the table, we 
have concluded it is more likely than not that we will not be 

required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. We 

have assessed each security with gross unrealized losses for 

credit impairment. For debt securities, we evaluate, where 

necessary, whether credit impairment exists by comparing the 

present value of the expected cash flows to the securities™ 

amortized cost basis. For equity securities, we consider 

numerous factors in determining whether impairment exists, 

including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period 

of time sufficient to recover the cost basis of the securities. 
See Note 1 Œ ﬁInvestmentsﬂ for the factors that we consider in 
our analysis of OTTI for debt and equity securities. 
SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES 
AND FEDERAL AGENCY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES 
(MBS)
  The unrealized losses associated with U.S. Treasury and 
federal agency securities and federal agency MBS are primarily 
driven by changes in interest rates and not due to credit losses 

given the explicit or implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. 

government. 
SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL 
SUBDIVISIONS
  The unrealized losses associated with securities 
of U.S. states and political subd
ivisions are primarily driven by 
changes in the relationship between municipal and term funding 
credit curves rather than by changes to the credit quality of the 

underlying securities. Substantially all of these investments are 

investment grade. The securities were generally underwritten in 

accordance with our own investment standards prior to the 

decision to purchase. Some of these securities are guaranteed by 

a bond insurer, but we did not rely on this guarantee in making 

our investment decision. These in
vestments will continue to be 
monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis, but are 

expected to perform, even if the rating agencies reduce the credit 

rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL MBS
  The unrealized losses 
associated with private residential MBS and commercial MBS 

are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, 

credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit 

impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash 

flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows 

include default rates, loss severities and/or prepayment rates. 

We estimate losses to a security by forecasting the underlying 

mortgage loans in each transaction. We use forecasted loan 

performance to project cash flows to the various tranches in the 

structure. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as 

applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, 

sector credit ratings, and other independent market data. Based 

upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit 

enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES
  The unrealized losses 
associated with corporate debt securities are primarily related to 
unsecured debt obligations issued by various corporations. We 

evaluate the financial performance of each issuer on a quarterly 

basis to determine that the issuer can make all contractual 

principal and interest payments. Based upon this assessment, we 

expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these 

securities. 
COLLATERALIZED LOAN AND OTHER DEBT OBLIGATIONS 
The unrealized losses associated with collateralized loan and 

other debt obligations relate to 
securities primarily backed by 
commercial, residential or other consumer collateral. The 

unrealized losses are primarily driven by changes in projected 

collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for 

credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected 

cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash 

flows include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. 

We also consider cash flow 
forecasts and, as applicable, 
independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit 

ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our 

assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit 

enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
OTHER DEBT SECURITIES  
The unrealized losses associated 
with other debt securities primarily relate to other asset-backed 
securities. The losses are primarily driven by changes in 

projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We 

assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of 

expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining 

expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and 

prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected 

credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, 

we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these 

securities. 
MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES 
Our marketable equity 
securities include investments in perpetual preferred securities, 

which provide attractive tax-equivalent yields. We evaluated 

these hybrid financial instru
ments with investment-grade 
ratings for impairment using an evaluation methodology similar 

to that used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities are 

not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired if there is 

no evidence of credit deterioration or investment rating 

downgrades of any issuers to below investment grade, and we 

expect to continue to receive full contractual payments. We will 

continue to evaluate the prospects for these securities for 

recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for 

estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write-downs on 

perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of credit 

deterioration. 
OTHER INVESTMENT SECURITIES MATTERS
  The fair values 
of our investment securities could decline in the future if the 

underlying performance of the co
llateral for the residential and 
commercial MBS or other securities deteriorate and our credit 

enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to our 

contractual principal and interest. As a result, there is a risk that 

significant OTTI may occur in the future. 
Note 5:  Investment Securities 
(continued) 
The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair 
value of debt and perpetual preferred investment securities by 
those rated investment grade and those rated less than 

investment grade, according to their lowest credit rating by 

Standard & Poor™s Rating Services (S&P) or Moody™s Investors 

Service (Moody™s). Credit ratings express opinions about the 

credit quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, 

that is those rated BBB- or higher by S&P or Baa3 or higher by 

Moody™s, are generally considered by the rating agencies and 

market participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities 

rated below investment grade, labeled as ﬁspeculative gradeﬂ by 

the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively higher 
credit risk than investment grade securities. We have also 

included securities not rated by S&P or Moody™s in the table 

below based on the internal credit grade of the securities (used 

for credit risk management purposes) equivalent to the credit 

rating assigned by major credit agencies. The unrealized losses 

and fair value of unrated securities categorized as investment 

grade based on internal credit grades were $18 million and $1.9 

billion, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $19 million and 

$2.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012. If an internal 

credit grade was not assigned, we categorized the security as 

non-investment grade. 
Investment grade 
Non-investment grade 
(in millions) 
Gross unrealized 
losses 
Fair 
value 
Gross  
unrealized 
losses 
Fair 
value 
December 31, 2013 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$ (329)
 5,786 
--Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 (671)
 12,915 
 (56)
 443 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 (3,614)
 68,177 
--Residential 
 (2)
 177  (38)
 1,297 
Commercial
 (46)
 3,364 
 (69)
 791 Total mortgage-backed securities
 (3,662)
 71,718 
 (107)
 2,088 
Corporate debt securities 
 (96)
 2,343 
 (44)
 627 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 (72)
 7,376
 (21)
 169 Other
 (19)
 1,874 
 (10)
 181 Total debt securities
 (4,849)
 102,012 
 (238)
 3,508 
Perpetual preferred secu
rities 
(60) 732 --Total available-for-sale securities
 (4,909)
 102,744 
 (238)
 3,508 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
Federal agency mortgage-backed securities
 (99)
 6,153 
--Total held-to-maturity securities
 (99)
 6,153
 --Total 
$  (5,008)
 108,897 
 (238)
 3,508 
December 31, 2012 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$ ----Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
(378) 
6,839
 (66)
 532 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 (4)
 2,247 --Residential
 (3)
 78
 (46)
 1,747 
Commercial
 (31)
 2,110 (237)
 945 Total mortgage-backed securities 
(38) 
4,435 (283)
 2,692 Corporate debt securities
 (19)
 1,112 (50)
 410 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
(49) 
2,065 (46)
 218 Other (49)
 3,034 (27)
 129 Total debt securities 
(533) 
17,485 (472)
 3,981 Perpetual preferred securities 
(40) 
654 --Total 
$  (573)
 18,139 (472) 
3,981 Contractual Maturities 
The following table shows the remaining contractual maturities 
and contractual weighted-average yields (taxable-equivalent 
basis) of debt securities. The remaining contractual principal 

maturities for MBS do not consider prepayments. Remaining 
expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities 

because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations 

before the underlying mortgages mature. 
Remaining contractual maturity 
Total 
Within one year  
After one year 
through five years 
After five years 
through ten years 
After ten years 
(in millions) 
amount 
Yield 
Amount  
Yield 
Amount  
Yield 
Amount  
Yield 
Amount  
Yield 
December 31, 2013 
Available-for-sale securities (1): 
Securities of U.S. Treasury 
and federal agencies 
$ 6,280 
 1.66 % 
$  86 
 0.54 % 
$  701 
 1.45 % 
$   5,493 
 1.71 % 
$  -
 -%  Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 42,536 
5.30  4,915 
1.84  7,901 
2.19  3,151 
5.19  26,569 
6.89 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 117,591 
3.33 1 7.14 398 2.71 956 3.46  116,236 
3.33 Residential 
 12,453
 4.31 ----113 5.43  12,340 
4.30 Commercial
 18,747
 5.24
 -- 52
 3.33
 59
 0.96
 18,636
 5.26 
Total mortgage-backed  
securities
 148,791 
3.65 1 7.14 450 2.78  1,128 
3.52  147,212 
3.66 Corporate debt securities
 21,227 
4.18  6,136 
2.06  7,255 
4.22  6,528 
5.80  1,308 
5.77 Collateralized loan and 
other debt obligations
 20,159 
1.59 40 0.25  1,100 
0.63  7,750 
1.29  11,269 
1.89 Other
 9,629 
1.80 906 2.53  2,977 
1.74  1,243 
1.64  4,503 
1.73 Total debt securities 
at fair value 
$  248,622 
 3.69 %
 $  12,084 
 1.99 %
 $  20,384 
 2.75 %
 $  25,293 
 3.14 %
 $  190,861 
 3.97 %  Held-to-maturity securities (1): 
Federal agency mortgage- 
backed securities (2) 
$ 6,205 
 3.90 %
 $ -
 -%
 $ -
 -%
 $ -
 -%
 $  6,205 
 3.90 %  Other (3)
 6,042 
1.89 195 1.72  4,468 
1.87  1,379 
1.98 --Total held-to-maturity 
securities at fair value 
$  12,247 
 2.92 %
 $ 195 
 1.72 %
 $  4,468 
 1.87 %
 $  1,379 
 1.98 %
 $  6,205 
 3.90 %  December 31, 2012 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury 
and federal agencies 
$ 7,146 1.59 % 
$  376 0.43 % 
$  661 1.24 % 
$  6,109 1.70 % 
$  --% Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
38,676 5.29 1,861 2.61 11,620 2.18 3,380 5.51 21,815 7.15 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies 
97,285 3.82 1 5.40 106 4.87 1,144 3.41 96,034 3.83 Residential 
15,931 4.38 ----569 2.06 15,362 4.47 Commercial 
19,968 5.33 --78 3.69 101 2.84 19,789 5.35 Total mortgage-backed  
securities 
133,184 4.12 1 5.40 184 4.37 1,814 2.95 131,185 4.13 Corporate debt securities
21,3334.26 1,037 4.29 12,792 3.19 6,099 6.14 1,405 5.88 Collateralized loan and 
other debt obligations 
13,188 1.35 44 0.96 1,246 0.71 7,376 1.01 4,522 2.08 Other 18,887 1.85 1,715 1.14 9,589 1.75 3,274 2.11 4,309 2.14 Total debt securities 
at fair value 
$ 232,414 3.91 % 
$  5,034 2.28 % 
$  36,092 2.37 % 
$  28,052 3.07 % 
$  163,236 4.44 %  (1) Weighted-average yields displayed by maturity bucket are weighted based on fair value for available-for-sale securities and amo
rtized cost for held-to-maturity securities. 
(2) Total amortized cost of federal agency mortgage-backed securities was $6.3 billion at December 31, 2013, with a remaining c
ontractual maturity of after ten years. 
(3) Total amortized cost of other debt securities was $6.0 billion at December 31, 2013, with remaining contractual maturities 
of within one year, after one year through five 
years, and after five years through ten years of $0.2 billion, $4.4 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 201
3. Note 5:  Investment Securities 
(continued) 
Realized Gains and Losses 
The following table shows the gross realized gains and losses on 
sales and OTTI write-downs related to the investment securities 

portfolio, which includes marketable equity securities, as well as 

net realized gains and losses on nonmarketable equity 

investments (see Note 7 Œ Other Assets). 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013
 2012 2011 Gross realized gains 
$ 492 600 1,305 Gross realized losses
 (24)
 (73)
 (70) 
OTTI write-downs
 (183)
 (256)
 (541) 
Net realized gains from investment securities
 285 271 694 Net realized gains from nonmarketable equity investments
 1,158 
1,086 842 Net realized gains from debt securities and equity investments 
$ 1,443 
1,357 1,536 Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
The following table shows the detail of total OTTI write-downs 

included in earnings for debt securities, marketable equity 

securities and nonmarketable equity investments.
 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 OTTI write-downs included in earnings 
Debt securities: 
U.S. states and political subdivisions 
$ 2 16 2 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 1 --Residential  
72 84 252 Commercial
 53 86 101 Corporate debt securities
 4 11 3 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 -1 1 Other debt securities
 26 42 64 Total debt securities
 158 240 423  Equity securities: 
Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 -12 96 Other marketable equity securities
 25 4 22 Total marketable equity securities
 25 16 118 Total investment securities
 183 256 541 Nonmarketable equity investments
 161 160 170 Total OTTI write-downs included in earnings 
$ 344 416 711 Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired Debt 
Securities 
The following table shows the detail of OTTI write-downs on 
debt securities included in earnings and the related changes in 
OCI for the same securities. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
2013 
2012 2011 OTTI on debt securities 
Recorded as part of gross realized losses: 
Credit-related OTTI 
$ 107 237 422 Intent-to-sell OTTI
 51 3 1 Total recorded as part of gross realized losses
 158 240 423 Changes to OCI for increase (decrease) in non-credit-related OTTI (1): 
U.S. states and political subdivisions
 (2)
 1  (1) 
Residential mortgage-backed securities
 (27)
 (178)
 (171) 
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 (90)
 (88)
 105 Corporate debt securities
 -1 2 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 (1)
 (1)
 4 Other debt securities
 1 28  (13) 
Total changes to OCI for non-credit-related OTTI
 (119)
 (237)
 (74) 
Total OTTI losses recorded on debt securities 
$ 39 3 349 (1) Represents amounts recorded to OCI for impairment, due to factors other than credit, on debt securities that have also had cred
it-related OTTI write-downs during the 
period. Increases represent initial or subsequent non-credit-related OTTI on debt securities. Decreases represent partial to fu
ll reversal of impairment due to recoveries in 
the fair value of securities due to factors other than credit. 
The following table presents a rollforward of the credit loss 
component recognized in earnings for debt securities we still 

own (referred to as ﬁcredit-impairedﬂ debt securities). The credit 

loss component of the amortized cost represents the difference 

between the present value of expected future cash flows 

discounted using the security™s current effective interest rate and 

the amortized cost basis of the security prior to considering 

credit losses. OTTI recognized in earnings for credit-impaired 

debt securities is presented as additions and is classified into one 

of two components based upon whether the current period is the 

first time the debt security was credit-impaired (initial credit 

impairment) or if the debt security was previously credit-
impaired (subsequent credit impairments). The credit loss 

component is reduced if we sell, intend to sell or believe we will 

be required to sell previously credit-impaired debt securities. 

Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive 

or expect to receive cash flows in excess of what we previously 

expected to receive over the remaining life of the credit-impaired 
debt security, the security matures or is fully written down. 
Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt 
securities that were recognized in earnings and related to 

securities that we do not intend to sell are presented in the 

following table. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
2013 
2012 2011 Credit loss component, beginning of year 
$ 1,289 
1,272 1,043 Additions: 
Initial credit impairments
 21 55 87 Subsequent credit impairments
 86 182 335 Total additions 
107 237 422 Reductions: 
For securities sold or matured
 (194)
 (194)
 (160) 
For securities derecognized due to changes in consolidation status of variable interest entities
 -- (2) 
For recoveries of previous credit impairments (1)
 (31)
 (26)
 (31) 
Total reductions
 (225)
 (220)
 (193) 
Credit loss component, end of year 
$  1,171 
1,289 1,272 (1) Recoveries of previous credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows subsequent to credit loss recognition. S
uch recoveries are reflected prospectively as 
interest yield adjustments using the effective interest method. 
Note 5:  Investment Securities 
(continued) 
To determine credit impairment losses for asset-backed 
securities (e.g., residential MBS, commercial MBS), we estimate 
expected future cash flows of 
the security by estimating the 
expected future cash flows of the underlying collateral and 

applying those collateral cash flows, together with any credit 

enhancements such as subordinated interests owned by third 

parties, to the security. The expected future cash flows of the 

underlying collateral are determined using the remaining 

contractual cash flows adjusted for future expected credit losses 

(which consider current delinquencies and nonperforming assets 
(NPAs), future expected default rates and collateral value by 

vintage and geographic region) and prepayments. The expected 

cash flows of the security are then discounted at the security™s 

current effective interest rate to arrive at a present value 

amount. Total credit impairment 
losses on residential MBS that 
we do not intend to sell are shown in the table below. The table 

also presents a summary of the significant inputs considered in 

determining the measurement of the credit loss component 

recognized in earnings for residential MBS. 
Year ended December 31, 
($ in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Credit impairment losses on residential MBS 
Investment grade 
$ --5 Non-investment grade
 72 84 247 Total credit impairment losses on residential MBS 
$ 72 84 252 Significant inputs (non-agency Œ non-investment grade MBS) 
Expected remaining life of loan loss rate (1): 
Range (2) 
0-20 
%  1-44 
 0-48 
Credit impairment loss rate distribution (3): 
0 - 10% range
 91 77 42 10 - 20% range
 8 11 18 20 - 30% range
 1 4 28 Greater than 30%
 -8 12 Weighted average loss rate (4)
 6 8 12 Current subordination levels (5): 
Range (2) 
0-41 
0-57 
0-25 
Weighted average (4) 
-2 4 Prepayment speed (annual CPR (6)): 
Range (2) 
4-27 
5-29 
3-19 
Weighted average (4) 
16 15 11 (1) Represents future expected credit losses on each pool of loans underlying respective securities expressed as a percentage of th
e total current outstanding loan balance of the 
pool for each respective security. 
(2) Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual securities within each category. 
(3) Represents distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings categorized based on range of expected remaining lif
e of loan losses. For example 91% of credit 
impairment losses recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2013, had expected remaining life of loan loss assumpt
ions of 0 to 10%. 
(4) Calculated by weighting the relevant input/assumption for each individual security by current outstanding amortized cost basis 
of the security. 
(5) Represents current level of credit protection provided by tranches subordinate to our security holdings (subordination), expres
sed as a percentage of total current underlying 
loan balance. 
(6) Constant prepayment rate. 
Total credit impairment losses on commercial MBS that we 
do not intend to sell were $28 million, $86 million, and 

$101 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 

2011, respectively. Significant in
puts considered in determining 
the credit impairment losses for commercial MBS are the 

expected remaining life of loan loss rates and current 

subordination levels. Prepayment activity on commercial MBS 

does not significantly impact th
e determination of their credit 
impairment because, unlike residential MBS, commercial MBS 

experience significantly lower prepayments due to certain 

contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower™s ability to 

prepay the mortgage. The expected remaining life of loan loss 

rates for commercial MBS with credit impairment losses ranged 

from 4% to 15%, 3% to 18%, and 4% to 18%, while the current 

subordination level ranges were 0% to 21%, 0% to 13%, and 3% 

to 15% for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively. 
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
The following table presents total loans outstanding by portfolio 
segment and class of financing receivable. Outstanding balances 

include a total net reduction of $6.4 billion and $7.4 billion at 

December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, for 

unearned income, net deferred loan fees, and unamortized 
discounts and premiums. Outstanding balances also include PCI 

loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. 

Information about PCI loans is presented separately in the 

ﬁPurchased Credit-Impaired Loansﬂ section of this Note. 
 December 
31, (in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 197,210 
187,759 167,216 151,284 158,352 Real estate mortgage
 107,100 
106,340 105,975 99,435 97,527 Real estate construction
 16,747 
16,904 19,382 25,333 36,978 Lease financing
 12,034 
12,424 13,117 13,094 14,210 Foreign (1)
 47,665 
37,771 39,760 32,912 29,398 Total commercial
 380,756 
361,198 345,450 322,058 336,465 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 258,497 
249,900 228,894 230,235 229,536 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 65,914 
75,465 85,991 96,149 103,708 Credit card
 26,870 
24,640 22,836 22,260 24,003 Automobile
 50,808 
45,998 43,508 43,516 42,624 Other revolving credit and installment
 42,954 
42,373 42,952 43,049 46,434 Total consumer 
 445,043 
438,376 424,181 435,209 446,305 Total loans 
$ 825,799 
799,574 769,631 757,267 782,770 (1) Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign primarily based on whether
 the borrower™s primary address is outside of the 
United States. 
Loan Concentrations 

Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned 

to borrowers engaged in similar activities or similar types of 

loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would cause 

them to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. 

At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we did not have concentrations 

representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in domestic 

commercial and industrial loans and lease financing by industry 

or CRE loans (real estate mortgage and real estate construction) 

by state or property type. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage 

loans to borrowers in the state of California represented 

approximately 13% of total loans at both December 31, 2013 

and 2012, of which 2% were PCI loans in both years. These 

California loans are generally diversified among the larger 

metropolitan areas in California, with no single area consisting 

of more than 3% of total loans. We continuously monitor 

changes in real estate values and underlying economic or market 

conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate 1-4 family 

mortgage portfolio as part of our credit risk management 

process. 
Some of our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien 
mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the 

loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 15% of 

total loans at December 31, 2013, and 18% at December 31, 2012. 

Substantially all of these interest-only loans at origination were 

considered to be prime or near prime. We do not offer option 

adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) products, nor do we offer 

variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, 
commonly referred to within the financial services industry as 

negative amortizing mortgage loans. We acquired an option 
payment loan portfolio (Pick-a-Pay) from Wachovia at 
December 31, 2008. A majority of the portfolio was identified as 

PCI loans. Since the acquisition, we have reduced our exposure 

to the option payment portion of the portfolio through our 

modification efforts and loss mitigation actions. At 

December 31, 2013, approximately 3% of total loans remained 
with the payment option feature compared with 10% at 

December 31, 2008. 
Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally 
have a draw period of 10 years (with some up to 15 or 20 years) 

with variable interest rate and payment options during the draw 

period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of total outstanding 

balance plus accrued interest. During the draw period, the 

borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line 

from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms including 

interest-only payments for a fixed period between three to seven 
years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between 

five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a line of credit 

generally converts to an amortizing payment schedule with 

repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at time 

of conversion. At December 31, 2013, our lines of credit portfolio 

had an outstanding balance of $75.7 billion, of which 

$3.9 billion, or 5%, is in its amortization period, another 

$11.6 billion, or 15%, of our total outstanding balance, will reach 

their end of draw period during 2014 through 2015, 

$22.8 billion, or 30%, during 2016 through 2018, and 

$37.4 billion, or 50%, will convert in subsequent years. This 

portfolio had unfunded credit commitments of $73.6 billion at 

December 31, 2013. The lines that enter their amortization 

period may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss 
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
rates than the ones in their draw period. At December 31, 2013, 
$274 million, or 7%, of outstanding lines of credit that are in 

their amortization period were 30 or more days past due, 

compared with $1.5 billion, or 2%, for lines in their draw period. 

We have considered this increased inherent risk in our allowance 

for credit loss estimate. In anticipation of our borrowers 

reaching the end of their contr
actual commitment, we have 
created a program to inform, educate and help these borrowers 

transition from interest-only to 
fully-amortizing payments or full 
repayment. We monitor the performance of the borrowers 

moving through the program in an effort to refine our ongoing 

program strategy. 
Loan Purchases, Sales, and Transfers 

The following table summarizes the proceeds paid or received for 

purchases and sales of loans and transfers from loans held for 

investment to mortgages/loans held for sale at lower of cost or 

market. This loan activity primarily includes loans purchased 

and sales of whole loan or participating interests, whereby we 

receive or transfer a portion of a loan after origination. The table 

excludes PCI loans and loans recorded at fair value, including 

loans originated for sale because their loan activity normally 

does not impact the allowance for credit losses. 
Year ended December 31,
 2013 
2012 (in millions) 
Commercial 
Consumer 
Total 
Commercial 
Consumer  
Total  
Purchases (1) 
$ 10,914 
 581  11,495 
 12,280 167  12,447 Sales
 (6,740)
 (514)
 (7,254)
 (5,840)
 (840)
 (6,680) 
Transfers to MHFS/LHFS (1)
 (258)
 (11)
 (269)
 (84)
 (21)
 (105) 
(1) The ﬁPurchasesﬂ and ﬁTransfers to MHFS/LHFS" categories exclude activity in government insured/guaranteed loans. As servicer, w
e are able to buy delinquent 
insured/guaranteed loans out of the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) pools. These loans have different risk char
acteristics from the rest of our consumer 
portfolio, whereby this activity does not impact the allowance for loan losses in the same manner because the loans are predomi
nantly insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). On a net basis, such purchases net of transfers 
to MHFS were $8.2 billion and $9.8 billion 
for the year ended 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
Commitments to Lend 
A commitment to lend is a legally binding agreement to lend 
funds to a customer, usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, 

and for specific purposes and time periods. We generally require 

a fee to extend such commitments. Certain commitments are 

subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the 

financial performance of the customer or borrowing base 

formulas on an ongoing basis that must be met before we are 

required to fund the commitment. We may reduce or cancel 

consumer commitments, including home equity lines and credit 

card lines, in accordance with th
e contracts and applicable law. 
We may, as a representative for other lenders, advance funds 
or provide for the issuance of letters of credit under syndicated 

loan or letter of credit agreements. Any advances are generally 

repaid in less than a week and would normally require default of 

both the customer and another lender to expose us to loss.  

These temporary advance arrangements totaled approximately 

$87 billion at December 31, 2013. 
We issue commercial letters of credit to assist customers in 
purchasing goods or services, typically for international trade. At 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had $1.2 billion and 

$1.5 billion, respectively, of outstanding issued commercial 

letters of credit. We also originate multipurpose lending 

commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw 

on the facility for different purposes in one of several forms, 

including a standby letter of credit. See Note 14 for additional 

information on standby letters of credit. 
When we make commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. 
The maximum credit risk for these commitments will generally 

be lower than the contractual amount because a significant 

portion of these commitments are expected to expire without 

being used by the customer. In addition, we manage the 

potential risk in commitments to lend by limiting the total 

amount of commitments, both by individual customer and in 

total, by monitoring the size and maturity structure of these 

commitments and by applying th
e same credit standards for 
these commitments as for all of our credit activities. 
For certain loans and commitments to lend, we may require 
collateral or a guarantee, based on our assessment of a 

customer™s credit risk. We may require various types of 

collateral, including commercial and consumer real estate, autos, 

other short-term liquid assets such as accounts receivable or 

inventory and long-lived asset, such as equipment and other 

business assets. Collateral requirements for each loan or 

commitment may vary according to the specific credit 

underwriting, including terms and structure of loans funded 

immediately or under a commitment to fund at a later date. 
The contractual amount of our unfunded credit 
commitments, including unissued standby and commercial 

letters of credit, is summarized by portfolio segment and class of 

financing receivable in the following table. The table excludes 

standby and commercial letters of credit issued under the terms 

of our commitments and temporary advance commitments on 

behalf of other lenders. 
Dec. 31, 
Dec. 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 238,962 
215,626 Real estate mortgage
 5,910 
6,165 Real estate construction
 12,593 
9,109 Foreign
 12,216 
8,423 Total commercial
 269,681 
239,323 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 32,908 
42,657 Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage
 47,668 
50,934 Credit card
 78,961 
70,960 Other revolving credit and installment
 24,213 
19,791 Total consumer 
 183,750 
184,342 Total unfunded 
credit commitments 
$ 453,431 
423,665 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments. Ch
anges in 
the allowance for credit losses were: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 Balance, beginning of year 
$  17,477 
19,668 23,463 25,031 21,711 Provision for credit losses
 2,309 
7,217 7,899 15,753 21,668 Interest income on certain impaired loans (1)
 (264)
 (315)
 (332)
 (266)
-Loan charge-offs: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
 (715)
 (1,306)
 (1,598)
 (2,775)
 (3,365) 
Real estate mortgage
 (190)
 (382)
 (636)
 (1,151)
 (670) 
Real estate construction
 (28)
 (191)
 (351)
 (1,189)
 (1,063) 
Lease financing
 (33)
 (24)
 (38)
 (120)
 (229) 
Foreign
 (27)
 (111)
 (173)
 (198)
 (237) 
Total commercial
 (993)
 (2,014)
 (2,796)
 (5,433)
 (5,564) 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 (1,439)  
 (3,013)
 (3,883)
 (4,900)
 (3,318) 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 (1,578)
 (3,437)
 (3,763)
 (4,934)
 (4,812) 
Credit card
 (1,022)  
 (1,101)
 (1,449)
 (2,396)
 (2,708) 
Automobile
 (625)
 (651)
 (799)
 (1,308)
 (2,063) 
Other revolving credit and installment
 (753)
 (757)
 (925)
 (1,129)
 (1,360) 
Total consumer 
 (5,417)
 (8,959)
 (10,819)
 (14,667)
 (14,261) 
Total loan charge-offs
 (6,410)  
 (10,973)
 (13,615)
 (20,100)
 (19,825) 
Loan recoveries: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
380 461 419 427 254 Real estate mortgage
 227 163 143 68 33 Real estate construction
 137 124 146 110 16 Lease financing
 16 19 24 20 20 Foreign
 27 32 45 53 40 Total commercial
 787 799 777 678 363 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 245 157 405 522 185 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 269 259 218 211 174 Credit card
 126 185 251 218 180 Automobile
 321 362 439 499 564 Other revolving credit and installment
 153 177 226 219 191 Total consumer 
 1,114 
1,140 1,539 1,669 1,294 Total loan recoveries
 1,901 
1,939 2,316 2,347 1,657 Net loan charge-offs (2) 
 (4,509)  
 (9,034)
 (11,299)
 (17,753)
 (18,168) 
Allowances related to business combinations/other (3)
 (42)
 (59)
 (63)
 698  (180) 
Balance, end of year 
$  14,971 
17,477 19,668 23,463 25,031 Components:  
Allowance for loan losses 
$ 14,502 
17,060 19,372 23,022 24,516 Allowance for unfunded credit commitments
 469 417 296 441 515 Allowance for credit losses (4) 
$ 14,971 
17,477 19,668 23,463 25,031 Net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans (2)
 0.56 %
 1.17 1.49 2.30 2.21 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans (4)
 1.76 2.13 2.52 3.04 3.13 Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of total loans (4)
 1.81 2.19 2.56 3.10 3.20 (1) Certain impaired loans with an allowance calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the loan™s effective interest rate
 over the remaining life of the loan recognize 
reductions in the allowance as interest income. 
(2) For PCI loans, charge-offs are only recorded to the extent that losses exceed the purchase accounting estimates. 
(3) Includes $693 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, related to the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance on Jan
uary 1, 2010. 
(4) The allowance for credit losses includes $30 million, $117 million, $231 million, $298 million and $333 million at December 31,
 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, 
respectively, related to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans acquired from Wachovia are included in total loans net of rela
ted purchase accounting net write-downs. 
The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for credit losses by our commercial and consumer portfolio segment
s. Year ended December 31, 
2013 
2012 (in millions) 
Commercial 
Consumer T
otal 
 Commercial 
Consumer 
Total 
Balance, beginning of period 
$  5,714 
 11,763 
 17,477 
6,358 13,310 19,668 Provision for credit losses
 671  1,638 
 2,309 
666 6,551 7,217 Interest income on certain impaired loans  
 (54)
 (210)
 (264)
 (95)
 (220)
 (315) 
Loan charge-offs
 (993)
 (5,417)
 (6,410)
 (2,014)
 (8,959)
 (10,973) 
Loan recoveries
 787  1,114 
 1,901 
799 1,140 1,939 Net loan charge-offs
 (206)
 (4,303)
 (4,509)
 (1,215)
 (7,819)
 (9,034) 
Allowance related to business combinations/other
 (22)
 (20)
 (42)
 - (59)
 (59) 
Balance, end of period 
$  6,103 
 8,868 
 14,971 
5,714 11,763 17,477 The following table disaggregates our allowance for credit losses 
and recorded investment in loans by impairment methodology. 
Allowance for credit losses 
Recorded investment in loans 
(in millions) 
Commercial 
onsumer  
CTotal  
Commercial 
Consumer  
Total 
December 31, 2013 
Collectively evaluated (1) 
$  4,921 
 5,011 
 9,932 
 372,918 
 398,084 
 771,002 
Individually evaluated (2)
 1,156 
 3,853 
 5,009 
 5,334 
 22,736 
 28,070 
PCI (3) 
 26
 4 30
 2,504
 24,223
 26,727 
Total 
$ 6,103 
 8,868 
 14,971 
 380,756 
 445,043 
 825,799 
December 31, 2012 

Collectively evaluated (1) 
$ 3,951 
7,524 
11,475 349,035 389,559 738,594 Individually evaluated (2)
1,675 4,210
 5,8858,186 21,826 30,012 PCI (3)
 88 29 117 3,977 26,991 30,968 Total 
$ 5,714 
11,763 17,477 361,198 438,376 799,574 (1) Represents loans collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 450-20, 
Loss Contingencies
 (formerly FAS 5), and 
pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for non-impaired loans. 
(2) Represents loans individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10, 
Receivables
 (formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 
regarding allowance for impaired loans. 
(3) Represents the allowance and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC 310-30
, Receivables Œ Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated 
Credit Quality 
(formerly SOP 03-3) and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans. 
Credit Quality 
We monitor credit quality by evaluating various attributes and 
utilize such information in our evaluation of the appropriateness 

of the allowance for credit losses. The following sections provide 

the credit quality indicators we most closely monitor. The credit 

quality indicators are generally based on information as of our 

financial statement date, with the exception of updated Fair 

Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores and updated loan-to-value 
(LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV), which are obtained at least 

quarterly. Generally, these indicators are updated in the second 

month of each quarter, with updates no older than September 

30, 2013. See the ﬁPurchased Credit-Impaired Loansﬂ section of 
this Note for credit quality information on our PCI portfolio. 
COMMERCIAL CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS
 In addition to 
monitoring commercial loan concentration risk, we manage a 

consistent process for assessing commercial loan credit quality. 

Generally, commercial loans are subject to individual risk 

assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality 

ratings. Our ratings are aligned to Pass and Criticized categories. 

The Criticized category includes Special Mention, Substandard, 

and Doubtful categories which are defined by bank regulatory 

agencies. 
The following table provides a breakdown of outstanding 
commercial loans by risk category. Of the $12.7 billion in 

criticized commercial real estate (CRE) loans at 

December 31, 2013, $2.7 billion has been placed on nonaccrual 
status and written down to net realizable collateral value. CRE 

loans have a high level of monitoring in place to manage these 

assets and mitigate loss exposure. 
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
(in millions) 
Commercial 
and industrial 
Real 
estate 
mortgage 
Real 
estate 
construction 
Lease 
financing 
Foreign  
Total  
December 31, 2013 
By risk category: 
Pass 
$ 182,072 
 94,992 
 14,594 
 11,577 
 44,208 
 347,443 
Criticized
 14,923 
 10,972 
 1,720 
457  2,737 
 30,809 
Total commercial loans (excluding PCI)
 196,995 
 105,964 
 16,314 
 12,034 
 46,945 
 378,252 
Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value)
215  1,136 
433 -720  2,504 
Total commercial loans 
$  197,210 
 107,100 
 16,747 
 12,034 
 47,665 
 380,756 
December 31, 2012 

By risk category: 
Pass 
$ 169,293
87,183 12,22411,78735,380315,867 Criticized 
18,207 17,187 3,803 637 1,520 41,354 Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
187,500 
104,370 16,027 12,424 36,900 357,221 Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value)
259 1,970877 -871 3,977 Total commercial loans 
$ 187,759 
106,340 16,904 12,424 37,771 361,198 The following table provides past due information for 
commercial loans, which we monitor as part of our credit risk 
management practices. (in millions) 
Commercial 
and industrial 
Real 
estate 
mortgage 
Real 
estate 
construction 
Lease 
financing 
Foreign  
Total  
December 31, 2013 
By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$ 195,908 
103,139 
15,698  
11,972  
46,898  
373,615 
30-89 DPD and still accruing 
338 538 103 33 7  1,019 
90+ DPD and still accruing
 11
 35
 97
 -- 143 
Nonaccrual loans
 738  2,252 
416 29 40  3,475 
Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
196,995 
105,964 
16,314  
12,034  
46,945  
378,252 
Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value)
215  1,136 
433 -720  2,504 
Total commercial loans 
$ 197,210 
107,100 
16,747  
12,034  
47,665  
380,756 
December 31, 2012 
By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$ 185,614 
100,31714,86112,34436,837349,973 30-89 DPD and still accruing
417  503  136  53  12 1,121 90+ DPD and still accruing
47 228 27 -1 303 Nonaccrual loans 
1,422 3,322 1,003 27 50 5,824 Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
187,500 
104,370 16,027 12,424 36,900 357,221 Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value) 
259 1,970 877 -871 3,977 Total commercial loans 
$ 187,759 
106,340 16,904 12,424 37,771 361,198 CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS 
We have various 
classes of consumer loans that present unique risks. Loan 
delinquency, FICO credit scores and LTV for loan types are 

common credit quality indicators that we monitor and utilize in 

our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit 

losses for the consumer portfolio segment. 
Many of our loss estimation techniques used for the 
allowance for credit losses rely on delinquency-based models; 
therefore, delinquency is an impo
rtant indicator of credit quality 
and the establishment of our allowance for credit losses. The 

following table provides the outstanding balances of our 

consumer portfolio by delinquency status. 
(in millions) 
Real 
estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
Real 
estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
Credit 
card  
Automobile 
Other revolving 
credit and  
installment  
Total  
December 31, 2013 
By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD 
$ 193,361 
 64,194 
 26,203 
 49,699 
 31,866 
 365,323 
30-59 DPD
 2,784 
461 202 852 178  4,477 
60-89 DPD
 1,157 
253 144 186 111  1,851 
90-119 DPD
 587 182 124 66 76  1,035 
120-179 DPD
 747 216 196 4 20  1,183 
180+ DPD
 5,024 
485 1 1 7  5,518 
Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
 30,737
 --- 10,696
 41,433 
Total consumer loans (excluding PCI)
 234,397 
 65,791 
 26,870 
 50,808 
 42,954 
 420,820 
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value)
 24,100 
123 --- 24,223 
Total consumer loans 
$  258,497 
 65,914 
 26,870 
 50,808 
 42,954 
 445,043 
December 31, 2012 
By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD 
$ 179,870
 73,256 23,976 44,973 29,546 351,621 30-59 DPD 
3,295 577 211 798 168 5,049 60-89 DPD 
1,528 339 143 164 108 2,282 90-119 DPD 
853 265 122 57 73 1,370 120-179 DPD 
1,141 358 187 5 28 1,719 180+ DPD 
6,655 518 1 1 4 7,179 Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
29,719 ---12,446 42,165 Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
223,061 75,313 24,640 45,998 42,373 411,385 Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
26,839 152 ---26,991 Total consumer loans 
$ 249,900 
75,465 
24,640 45,998 42,373 438,376 (1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans whose repaymen
ts are predominantly guaranteed by 
agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). Loans insured/g
uaranteed by the FHA/VA and 90+ DPD 
totaled $20.8 billion at December 31 2013, compared with $20.2 billion at December 31, 2012. Student loans 90+ DPD totaled $900 
million at December 31, 2013, 
compared with $1.1 billion at December 31, 2012. 
Of the $7.7 billion of consumer loans not government 
insured/guaranteed that are 90 days or more past due at 
December 31, 2013, $902 million was accruing, compared with 

$10.3 billion past due and $1.1 billion accruing at 

December 31, 2012. 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans 180 days or more 
past due totaled $5.0 billion, or 2.1% of total first mortgages 

(excluding PCI), at December 31, 2013, compared with 

$6.7 billion, or 3.0%, at 
December 31, 2012. 
The following table provides a breakdown of our consumer 
portfolio by updated FICO. We obtain FICO scores at loan 

origination and the scores are updated at least quarterly. The 

majority of our portfolio is underwritten with a FICO score of 

680 and above. FICO is not available for certain loan types and 

may not be obtained if we deem it unnecessary due to strong 

collateral and other borrower attributes, primarily securities-

based margin loans of $5.0 billion at December 31, 2013, and 

$5.4 billion at December 31, 2012.  
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
(in millions) 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
eal estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien  
mortgage 
RCredit 
card  
Automobile 
Other revolving 
credit and  
installment  
Total  
December 31, 2013 
By updated FICO: 
< 600 
$  14,128 
 5,047 
 2,404 
 8,400 
956  30,935 
600-639
 9,030 
 3,247 
 2,175 
 5,925 
 1,015 
 21,392 
640-679
 14,917 
 5,984 
 4,176 
 8,827 
 2,156 
 36,060 
680-719
 24,336 
 10,042 
 5,398 
 8,992 
 3,914 
 52,682 
720-759
 32,991 
 13,575 
 5,530 
 6,546 
 5,263 
 63,905 
760-799
 72,062 
 19,238 
 4,535 
 6,313 
 6,828 
 108,976 
800+
 33,311 
 7,705 
 2,408 
 5,397 
 5,127 
 53,948 
No FICO available
 2,885 
953 244 408  1,992 
 6,482 
FICO not required
 ---- 5,007 
 5,007 
Government insured/guaranteed loans (1)
 30,737 
--- 10,696 
 41,433 
Total consumer loans (excluding PCI)
 234,397 
 65,791 
 26,870 
 50,808 
 42,954 
 420,820 
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value)
 24,100 
123 --- 24,223 
Total consumer loans 
$  258,497 
 65,914 
 26,870 
 50,808 
 42,954 
 445,043 
December 31, 2012 

By updated FICO: 
< 600 
$ 17,662
 6,122 2,314 7,928 1,163 35,189 600-639 
10,208 3,660 1,961 5,451 952 22,232 640-679 
15,764 6,574 3,772 8,142 2,011 36,263 680-719 
24,725 11,361 4,990 7,949 3,691 52,716 720-759 
31,502 15,992 5,114 5,787 4,942 63,337 760-799 
63,946 21,874 4,109 5,400 6,971 102,300 800+ 26,044 8,526 2,223 4,443 1,912 43,148 No FICO available
 3,491 1,204 157 898 2,882 8,632 FICO not required
 ----5,403 5,403 Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
29,719 ---12,446 42,165 Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
223,061 75,313 24,640 45,998 42,373 411,385 Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
26,839 152 ---26,991 Total consumer loans 
$ 249,900 
75,465 24,640 45,998 42,373 438,376 (1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans whose repaymen
ts are predominantly guaranteed by 
agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under FFELP. 
LTV refers to the ratio comparing the loan™s unpaid principal 
balance to the property™s collateral value. CLTV refers to the 
combination of first mortgage and junior lien mortgage 

(including unused line amounts for credit line products) ratios. 

LTVs and CLTVs are updated quarterly using a cascade approach 

which first uses values provided by automated valuation models 

(AVMs) for the property. If an AVM is not available, then the 

value is estimated using the origin
al appraised value adjusted by 
the change in Home Price Index (HPI) for the property location. 

If an HPI is not available, the original appraised value is used. 

The HPI value is normally the only method considered for high 

value properties, generally with an original value of $1 million or 

more, as the AVM values have proven less accurate for these 

properties. 
The following table shows the most updated LTV and CLTV 
distribution of the real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien 

mortgage loan portfolios. We consider the trends in residential 

real estate markets as we monitor credit risk and establish our 

allowance for credit losses. LTV does not necessarily reflect the 

likelihood of performance of a given loan, but does provide an 
indication of collateral value. In the event of a default, any loss 

should be limited to the portion of the loan amount in excess of 

the net realizable value of the underlying real estate collateral 

value. Certain loans do not have an LTV or CLTV primarily due 

to industry data availability and portfolios acquired from or 

serviced by other institutions. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
by LTV Real estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
by CLTV 
Total 
Real estate  
1-4 family 
first  
mortgage 
by LTV 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien  
mortgage 
by CLTV 
Total 
By LTV/CLTV: 
0-60% 
$ 74,046 
 13,636 
 87,682 
56,247 12,17068,417 60.01-80%
 80,187 
 17,154 
 97,341 
 69,759 15,16884,927 80.01-100%
 30,843 
 16,272 
 47,115 
 34,830 18,03852,868 100.01-120% (1)
 10,678 
 9,992 
 20,670 
 17,004 13,57630,580 > 120% (1)
 6,306 
 7,369 
 13,675 
 13,529 14,61028,139 No LTV/CLTV available
 1,600 
 1,368 
 2,968 
1,973 1,751 3,724 Government insured/guaranteed loans (2)
 30,737 
- 30,737 
29,719-29,719 Total consumer loans (excluding PCI)
 234,397 
 65,791 
 300,188 
223,06175,313298,374 Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value)
 24,100 
123  24,223 
26,839 152 26,991 Total consumer loans 
$ 258,497 
 65,914 
 324,411 
249,900 75,465 325,365 (1) Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally
 be limited to only the amount in excess of 
100% LTV/CLTV. 
(2) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
NONACCRUAL LOANS 
The following table provides loans on 
nonaccrual status. PCI loans are excluded from this table 
because they continue to earn interest from accretable yield, 

independent of performance 
in accordance with their 
contractual terms. (in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
Dec. 31, 
2012 Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 738 1,422 Real estate mortgage
 2,252 
3,322 Real estate construction
 416 1,003 Lease financing
 29 27 Foreign
 40 50 Total commercial (1) 
 3,475 
5,824 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2
 9,799 
)11,455 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortg
 2,188 
age
2,922 Automobile
 173 245 Other revolving credit and installment
 33 40 Total consumer 
 12,193 
14,662 Total nonaccrual loans 
(excluding PCI) 
$ 15,668 
20,486 (1) Includes LHFS of $1 million and $16 million at December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, respectively. 
(2) Includes MHFS of $227 million and $336 million at December 31, 2013 and 

December 31, 2012, respectively. 
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING 
Certain loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal 
are still accruing, because they are (1) well-secured and in the 

process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans 
or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being 

classified as nonaccrual until later delinquency, usually 120 days 

past due. PCI loans of $4.5 billion at December 31, 2013, and 

$6.0 billion at December 31, 2012, are not included in these past 

due and still accruing loans even though they are 90 days or 

more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to 

be accruing because they continue to earn interest from 

accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with 

their contractual terms. Loans 90 days or more past due and still 

accruing whose repayments are predominantly insured by the 

FHA or guaranteed by the VA for mortgages and the U.S. 

Department of Education for student loans under the FFELP 

were $22.2 billion at December 31, 2013, up from $21.8 billion at 

December 31, 2012. 
The following table shows non-PCI loans 90 days or more 
past due and still accruing by class for loans not government 

insured/guaranteed.  
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Loan 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
Total (excluding PCI): 
$  23,219 
23,245 Less: FHA insured/VA guaranteed (1)(2)
 21,274 
20,745 Less: Student loans guaranteed 
under the FFELP (3) 
900 1,065 Total, not government 
insured/guaranteed 
$  1,045 
1,435 By segment and class, not government 
insured/guaranteed: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 11 47 Real estate mortgage
 35 228 Real estate construction
 97 27 Foreign
 -1 Total commercial
 143 303 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2)
 354 564 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage (2)
 86 133 Credit card
 321 310 Automobile
 55 40 Other revolving credit and installment
 86 85 Total consumer 
902 1,132 Total, not government 
insured/guaranteed 
$ 1,045 
1,435 (1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA. 
(2) Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still 
accruing. 
(3) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies 
on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP. 
IMPAIRED LOANS 
The table below summarizes key 
information for impaired loans. Our impaired loans 
predominantly include loans on nonaccrual status in the 

commercial portfolio segment and loans modified in a TDR, 

whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. These impaired loans 

generally have estimated losses which are included in the 

allowance for credit losses. We have impaired loans with no 

allowance for credit losses when loss content has been previously 
recognized through charge-off
s and we do not anticipate 
additional charge-offs or losses, or certain loans are currently 

performing in accordance with their terms and for which no loss 

has been estimated. Impaired loans exclude PCI loans. The table 

below includes trial modifications that totaled $650 million at 

December 31, 2013, and $705 million at December 31, 2012. 
For additional information on our impaired loans and 
allowance for credit losses, see Note 1. 
Recorded investment 
(in millions) 
Unpaid 
principal  
balance 
Impaired 
loans 
Impaired loans 
with related 
allowance for 
credit losses 
Related 
allowance for 
credit losses 
December 31, 2013 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 2,016 
 1,274 
 1,024 
223 Real estate mortgage
 4,269
 3,375 
 3,264 
819 Real estate construction
 946 615 589 101 Lease financing
 71 33 33 8 Foreign 44 37 37 5 Total commercial (1)
 7,346 
 5,334 
 4,947 
 1,156 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 22,450 
 19,500 
 13,896 
 3,026 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 3,130
 2,582 
 2,092 
681 Credit card 
431 431 431 132 Automobile
 245 189 95 11 Other revolving credit and installment
 44
 34
 27
 3 Total consumer (2)
 26,300 
 22,736 
 16,541 
 3,853 
Total impaired loans (excluding PCI) 
$  33,646 
 28,070 
 21,488 
 5,009 
December 31, 2012 

Commercial:  
Commercial and industrial 
$ 3,331
 2,086 2,086 353 Real estate mortgage
 5,766 4,673 4,537 1,025 Real estate construction
 1,975 1,345 1,345 276 Lease financing
 54 39 39 11 Foreign
 109 43 43 9 Total commercial (1)
 11,235 8,186 8,050 1,674 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
21,293 18,472 15,224 3,074 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 2,855 2,483 2,070 859 Credit card
 531 531 531 244  Automobile 
314 314 314 27 Other revolving credit and installment
 27
 26
 26
 6 Total consumer (2)
 25,020 21,826 18,165 4,210 Total impaired loans (excluding PCI) 
$ 36,255 
30,012 26,215 5,884 (1) Excludes the unpaid principal balance for loans that have been fully charged off or otherwise have zero recorded investment. 
(2) At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, includes the recorded investment of $2.5 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, of 
government insured/guaranteed loans that 
are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and generally do not have an allowance. 
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
Commitments to lend additional funds on loans whose terms 
have been modified in a TDR amounted to $407 million and 
$421 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
The following tables provide the average recorded investment 
in impaired loans and the amount of interest income recognized 

on impaired loans by portfolio segment and class. 
Year ended December 31,
 2013
 2012 2011 (in millions) 
Average recorded 
investment 
Recognized 
interest 
income 
Average 
recorded
investment
Recognized 
 interest 
 income 
Average 
recorded
investment
Recognized 
 interest 
 income 
Commercial:  
Commercial and industrial 
$ 1,475 
94  2,281111  3,282105 Real estate mortgage
 3,842 
141  4,821119  5,30880 Real estate construction
966 35  1,81861  2,48170 Lease financing
38 1  57 1  80 -Foreign
33 -36 1 29 -Total commercial
 6,354 
271 9,013293 11,180255 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 19,419 
973 15,750 803 13,592 700 Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage
 2,498 
143 2,193 80 1,962 76 Credit card
 480 57 572 63 594 21 Automobile
 232 29 299 42 244 26 Other revolving credit and installment
 30 3 25 2 26 1 Total consumer (1)
 22,659  1,205 18,839 990 16,418 824 Total impaired loans (excluding PCI) 
$ 29,013 
 1,476 
27,852 1,283 27,598 1,079 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Average recorded investment in impaired loans 
$ 29,013 
27,852 27,598 Interest income: 
Cash basis of accounting 
$ 426 316 180 Other (2)
 1,050 
967 899 Total interest income 
$ 1,476 
1,283 1,079 (1) Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, reflect the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans di
scharged in bankruptcy to be classified 
as TDRs, as well as written down to net realizable collateral value. 
(2) Includes interest recognized on accruing TDRs, interest recognized related to certain impaired loans which have an allowance ca
lculated using discounting, and amortization 
of purchase accounting adjustments related to certain impaired loans. See footnote 1 to the table of changes in the allowance f
or credit losses. 
TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) 
When, for 
economic or legal reasons related to a borrower™s financial 
difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant 

period of time to a borrower that we would not otherwise 

consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. We do not 

consider any loans modified through a loan resolution such as 

foreclosure or short sale to be a TDR. 
We may require some borrowers experiencing financial 
difficulty to make trial payments 
generally for a period of three 
to four months, according to the terms of a planned permanent 

modification, to determine if they can perform according to 

those terms. These arrangements represent trial modifications, 

which we classify and account for as TDRs. While loans are in 

trial payment programs, their original terms are not considered 

modified and they continue to advance through delinquency 

status and accrue interest according to their original terms. The 

planned modifications for these arrangements predominantly 

involve interest rate reductions or other interest rate 

concessions; however, the exact concession type and resulting 

financial effect are usually not finalized and do not take effect 

until the loan is permanently modified. The trial period terms 

are developed in accordance with our proprietary programs or 

the U.S. Treasury™s Making Homes Affordable programs for real 

estate 1-4 family first lien (i.e. Home Affordable Modification 

Program Œ HAMP) and junior lien (i.e. Second Lien Modification 

Program Œ 2MP) mortgage loans. 
At December 31, 2013, the loans 
in trial modification period 
were $253 million under HAMP, $45 million under 2MP and 

$352 million under proprietary programs, compared with 

$402 million, $45 million and $258 million at 

December 31, 2012, respectively. Trial modifications with a 
recorded investment of $286 mi
llion at December 31, 2013, and 
$276 million at December 31, 2012, were accruing loans and 

$364 million and $429 million, respectively, were nonaccruing 

loans. Our experience is that most of the mortgages that enter a 

trial payment period program are successful in completing the 

program requirements and are then permanently modified at the 

end of the trial period. Our allowance process considers the 

impact of those modifications that are probable to occur. 
The following table summarizes our TDR modifications for 
the periods presented by primary modification type and includes 

the financial effects of these modifications. For those loans that 

modify more than once, the table reflects each modification that 

occurred during the period. 
Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
Primary modification type (1) 
Financial effects of modifications 
(in millions) 
Principal (2)  
 Interest 
rate 
reduction  
Other  
concessions (3) 
Total  
Charge-
offs (4)  
Weighted 
average 
interest 
rate 
reduction 
Recorded 
investment
related to 
interest rate 
reduction (5)  
Year ended December 31, 2013 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 4 176  1,081 
 1,261 
17  4.71 %  
$ 176 Real estate mortgage
 33 307  1,391 
 1,731 
8  1.66 
308 Real estate construction
 -12 381 393 4  1.07 
12 Lease financin
g -------Foreign
 15
 1 - 16
 --1 Total commercial
 52 
496  2,853 
 3,401 
29  2.72 
497 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 1,143 
 1,170 
 3,681 
 5,994 
233  2.64 
 2,019 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 103 181 472 756 42  3.33 
276 Credit card
 -182 -182 - 10.38
 182 Automobile
 3 12 97 112 34  7.66 
12 Other revolving credit and installment
 - 10
 12
 22
 - 4.87
 10 
Trial modifications (6) 
-- 50
 50
 ---Total consumer
 1,249 
 1,555 
 4,312 
 7,116 
309  3.31 
 2,499 
Total
$  1,301 
 2,051 
 7,165 
 10,517 
338  3.21 %  
$  2,996 
Year ended December 31, 2012 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 11 35  1,370 
 1,416 
40  1.60 % 
$ 38 Real estate mortgage
 47 219  1,907 
 2,173 
12  1.57 
226 Real estate construction
 12 19 531 562 10  1.69 
19 Lease financing
 --4 4 ---Forei
gn --19 19 ---Total commercial
 70 273  3,831 
 4,174 
62  1.58 
283 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 1,371 
 1,302 
 5,822 
 8,495 
547  3.00 
 2,379 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 79 244 756  1,079 
512  3.70 
313 Credit card
 -241 -241 - 10.85 
241 Automobile 
5 54 265 324 50  6.90 
56 Other revolving credit and installment
 -1 22 23 5  4.29 
2  Trial modifications (6) 
--666 666 ---Total consumer
 1,455 
 1,842 
 7,531 
 10,828
 1,114 
 3.78 
 2,991 
Total 
$  1,525 
 2,115 
 11,362
 15,002
 1,176 
 3.59 % 
$  3,274 
Year ended December 31, 2011 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 166 64  2,412 
 2,642 
84  3.13 % 
$ 69 Real estate mortgage
 113 146  1,894 
 2,153 
24  1.46 
160 Real estate construction
 29 114 421 564 26  0.81 
125 Lease financing
 --57 57 ---Foreign
 --22 22 ---Total commercial
 308 324  4,806 
 5,438 
134  1.55 
354 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 famil
y first mort
gag
e 1,629 
 1,908 
934  4,471 
293  3.27 
 3,322 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 98 559 197 854 28  4.34 
654 Credit card
 -336 -336 2  10.77 
260 Automobile 
73 115 3 191 23  6.39 
177 Other revolvin
g credit and installment
 1 4 4 9 1  5.00 
4  Trial modifications (6) 
--651 651 ---Total consumer
 1,801 
 2,922 
 1,789 
 6,512 
347  4.00 
 4,417 
Total 
$  2,109 
 3,246 
 6,595 
 11,950
 481  3.82 % 
$  4,771 
(1) Amounts represent the recorded investment in loans after recognizing the effects of the TDR, if any. TDRs may have multiple typ
es of concessions, but are presented only 
once in the first modification type based on the order presented in the table above. The reported amounts include loans remodif
ied of $3.1 billion, $3.9 billion and 
$496 million, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which reflect the impact of the prospective a
doption of the OCC guidance issued in 2012. 
(2) Principal modifications include principal forgiveness at the time of the modification, contingent principal forgiveness granted
 over the life of the loan based on borrower 
performance, and 
princi
pal that has been le
gall
y separated and deferred to the end of the loan, with a zero 
percent contractual interest rate. 
(3) Other concessions include loan renewals, term extensions and other interest and noninterest adjustments, but exclude modificati
ons that also forgive principal and/or reduce 
the interest rate. Years ended December 2013 and 2012 includes $4.0 billion and $5.2 billion of consumer loans discharged in ba
nkruptcy, respectively, as a result of the 
OCC guidance implementation. The OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012 required consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to 
be classified as TDRs, as well as written 
down to net realizable collateral value. 
(4) Charge-offs include write-downs of the investment in the loan in the period it is contractually modified. The amount of charge-
off will differ from the modification terms if the 
loan has been charged down prior to the modification based on our policies. In addition, there may be cases where we have a cha
rge-off/down with no legal principal 
modification. Modifications resulted in legally forgiving principal (actual, contingent or deferred) of $393 million, $495 mill
ion and $577 million for the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
(5) Reflects the effect of reduced interest rates on loans with principal or interest rate reduction primary modification type. 
(6) Trial modifications are granted a delay in payments due under the original terms during the trial payment period. However, thes
e loans continue to advance through 
delinquency status and accrue interest according to their original terms. Any subsequent permanent modification generally inclu
des interest rate related concessions; 
however, the exact concession type and resulting financial effect are usually not known until the loan is permanently modified.
 Trial modifications for the period are 
presented net of 
previousl
y reported trial modifications that became 
permanent in the current 
period. 
The table below summarizes permanent modification TDRs 
that have defaulted in the curren
t period within 12 months of 
their permanent modification date. We are reporting these 
defaulted TDRs based on a payment default definition of 90 days 

past due for the commercial portf
olio segment and 60 days past 
due for the consumer portfolio segment. 
Recorded investment of defaults
 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 234 379 216 Real estate mortgage
 303 579 331 Real estate construction
 70 261 69 Lease financing
 -1 1 Foreign
 1 -1 Total commercial
 608 1,220 618 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 370 567 1,110 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 34 55 137 Credit card
 59 94 156 Automobile
 18 55 110 Other revolving credit and installment
 1 1 3 Total consumer 
482 772 1,516 Total 
$ 1,090 
1,992 2,134 Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 
Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired from Wachovia 

on December 31, 2008. The following table presents PCI loans 

net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. Real 

estate 1-4 family first mortgage PCI loans are predominantly 

Pick-a-Pay loans. 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2008 Commercial:  
Commercial and industrial 
$ 215 259 4,580 Real estate mortgage
 1,136 
1,970 5,803 Real estate construction
 433 877 6,462 Foreign
 720 871 1,859 Total commercial
 2,504 
3,977 18,704 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 24,100 
26,83939,214 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
123  152 728 Automobile
--151 Total consumer 
 24,223 
26,991 40,093 Total PCI loans (carrying value) 
$ 26,727 
30,968 58,797 Total PCI loans (unpaid principal balance) 
$ 38,229 
45,174 98,182 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
ACCRETABLE YIELD 
The excess of cash flows expected to be 
collected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the 
accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an 

effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or 

pools of loans. The accretable yield is affected by: 
changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans Œ 

expected future cash flows are based on the variable rates in 

effect at the time of the regular evaluations of cash flows 

expected to be collected; 

changes in prepayment assumptions Œ prepayments affect 

the estimated life of PCI loans which may change the 

amount of interest income, and possibly principal, expected 

to be collected; and 
changes in the expected prin
cipal and interest payments 
over the estimated life Œ updates to expected cash flows are 

driven by the credit outlook and actions taken with 

borrowers. Changes in expected future cash flows from loan 

modifications are included in the regular evaluations of cash 

flows expected to be collected. 
The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is 
presented in the following table. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 2010 2009 Total, beginning of year 
$ 18,548 
15,961 16,714 14,559 10,447 Addition of accretable yield due to acquisitions
 1 3 128 --Accretion into interest income (1)
 (1,833)
 (2,152
 (2,206)
) (2,392)
 (2,601) 
Accretion into noninterest income due to sales (2)
 (151)
 (5 (189)
) (43)
 (5) 
Reclassification from nonaccretable difference for loans with improving credit-related cash flows
 971 1,141 373 3,399 441 Changes in expected cash flows that do not affect nonaccretable difference (3)
 (144)
 3,600 1,141 1,191 6,277 Total, end of year 
$ 17,392 
18,548 15,961 16,714 14,559 (1) Includes accretable yield released as a result of settlements with borrowers, which is included in interest income. 
(2) Includes accretable yield released as a result of sales to third parties, which is included in noninterest income. 
(3) Represents changes in cash flows expected to be collected due to the impact of modifications, changes in prepayment assumptions
, changes in interest rates on variable rate 
PCI loans and sales to third parties. The decline in expected interest cash flows in 2013 is primarily attributable to a declin
e in variable rate indices applicable to these loans, 
an increase in prepayment estimates, and updated estimates for interest collections attributable to loan modification activitie
s.   PCI ALLOWANCE 
Based on our regular evaluation of estimates 
of cash flows expected to be collected, we may establish an 
allowance for a PCI loan or pool of loans, with a charge to 

income though the provision for losses. The following table 

summarizes the changes in allowance for PCI loan losses. 
(in millions) 
Commercial 
Pick-a-Pay 
Other consumer 
Total 
Balance, December 31, 2008 
$ ----Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
850 
-3 853 
Charge-offs  
 (520) 
-- (520) 
Balance, December 31, 2009 
330 -3 333 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
712 
-59 
771 
Charge-offs  
 (776)
 - (30)
 (806) 
Balance, December 31, 2010 
266 -32 298 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
106 
-54 
160 
Charge-offs  
 (207)
 - (20)
 (227) 
Balance, December 31, 2011 
165 -66 231 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
25 
-7 32 
Charge-offs  
 (102) 
- (44)
 (146) 
Balance, December 31, 2012
 88 -29 117 Reversal of provision for losses
 (52)
 - (16)
 (68) 
Charge-offs
 (10)
 - (9)
 (19) 
Balance, December 31, 2013 
$ 26 
-4 30 COMMERCIAL PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS 
The following 
table provides a breakdown of commercial PCI loans by risk category. 
(in millions) 
Commercial 
and industrial 
Real 
estate 
mortgage 
Real 
estate 
construction 
Foreign 
Total 
December 31, 2013 
By risk category: 
Pass 
$ 118 316 160 8 602 Criticized 
 97
 820 273 712  1,902 
Total commercial PCI loans 
$ 215  1,136 
433 720  2,504 
December 31, 2012 
By risk category: 
Pass $ 95 341 207 255 898 Criticized 
164 1,629 670 616 3,079 Total commercial PCI loans 
$ 259 1,970 877 871 3,977 Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
The following table provides past due information for commercial PCI loans. 
(in millions) 
Commercial 
and industrial 
Real 
estate 
mortgage 
Real 
estate 
construction 
Foreign  
Total  
December 31, 2013 
By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$ 210 
 1,052 
355 632  2,249 
30-89 DPD and still accruing
 5 41
 2 - 48 
90+ DPD and still accruing
 -43 76 88 207 Total commercial PCI loans 
$ 215  1,136 
433 720  2,504 
December 31, 2012 

By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$ 235 
1,804 699 704 3,442 30-89 DPD and still accruing
 1 26 51 -78 90+ DPD and still accruing
 23 140 127 167 457 Total commercial PCI loans 
$ 259 
1,970 877 871 3,977 CONSUMER PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS 
Our 
consumer PCI loans were aggregated into several pools of loans 
at acquisition. Below, we have provided credit quality indicators 

based on the unpaid principa
l balance (adjusted for write-
downs) of the individual loans included in the pool, but we have 

not allocated the remaining purchase accounting adjustments, 

which were established at a pool level. The following table 

provides the delinquency status of consumer PCI loans. 
December 31, 2013   
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first
mortgage m
Real estate 
1-4 family 
 junior lien 
ortgage 
Total 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien  
mortgage 
Total By delinquency status: 
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$ 20,712 
171  20,883 
22,304 198 22,502 30-59 DPD and still accruing
 2,185 
8  2,193 
2,587 11 2,598 60-89 DPD and still accruing
 1,164 
4  1,168 
1,361 7 1,368 90-119 DPD and still accruing
 457 2 459 650 6 656 120-179 DPD and still accruing
 517 4 521 804 7 811 180+ DPD and still accruing
 4,291 
95  4,386 
5,356 116 5,472 Total consumer PCI loans (adjusted unpaid principal balance) 
$ 29,326 
284  29,610 
33,062 345 33,407 Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
$ 24,100 
123  24,223 
26,839 152 26,991 The following table provides FICO scores for consumer PCI loans. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
Real estate
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
Total 
 Real estate
1-4 family 
first  
mortgage 
  Real estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
Total 
By FICO: 
< 600
 $ 9,933 
101  10,034 
13,163 144 13,307 600-639
 6,029 
60  6,089 
6,673 68 6,741 640-679
 6,789 
70  6,859 
6,602 73 6,675 680-719
 3,732 
35  3,767 
3,635 39 3,674 720-759
 1,662 
11  1,673 
1,757 11 1,768 760-799
 865 5 870 874 6 880 800+ 198 1 199 202 1 203 No FICO available
 118 1 119 156 3 159 Total consumer PCI loans (adjusted unpaid principal balance) 
$ 29,326 
284  29,610 
33,062 345 33,407 Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
$ 24,100 
123  24,223 
26,839 152 26,991 The following table shows the distribution of consumer PCI loans 
by LTV for real estate 1-4 family first mortgages and by CLTV 
for 
real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first 
mortgage 
by LTV Real estate
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
by CLTV 
Total 
 Real estate
1-4 family 
first  
mortgage 
by LTV 
  Real estate 
1-4 family 
junior lien 
mortgage 
by CLTV 
Total  
By LTV/CLTV: 
0-60% 
$ 2,501 
32  2,533 
1,374 21 1,395 60.01-80%
 8,541 
42  8,583 
4,119 30 4,149 80.01-100%
 10,366 
88  10,454 
9,576 61 9,637 100.01-120% (1)
 4,677 
67  4,744 
8,084 93 8,177 > 120% (1)
 3,232 
54  3,286 
9,889 138 10,027 No LTV/CLTV available
 9 1 10 20 2 22 Total consumer PCI loans (adjusted unpaid principal balance) 
$ 29,326 
284  29,610 
33,062 345 33,407 Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
$ 24,100 
123  24,223 
26,839 152 26,991 (1) Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally
 be limited to only the amount in excess of 
100% LTV/CLTV. 
Note 7:  Premises, Equipment, Le
ase Commitments and Other Assets 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Land 
$ 1,759 
1,832 Buildings
 7,931 
7,670 Furniture and equipment
 7,517 
7,194 Leasehold improvements
 1,939 
1,839 Premises and equipment leased 
under capital leases
 82 122 Total premises and equipment 
 19,228 
18,657 Less: Accumulated depreciation 
and amortization
 10,072 
9,229 Net book value, 
premises and equipment 
$ 9,156 
9,428 Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and 
equipment was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2013, 

2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Dispositions of premises and equipment, included in 
noninterest expense, resulted in a net loss of $15 million in 2013, 

a net gain of $7 million in 2012 and a net loss of $17 million in 

2011, respectively. 
We have obligations under a number of noncancelable 
operating leases for premises and equipment. The leases 

predominantly expire over the next 15 years, with the longest 

expiring in 2105, and many provide for periodic adjustment of 

rentals based on changes in various economic indicators. Some 

leases also include a renewal option. The following table 

provides the future minimum payments under capital leases and 

noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease rentals, with 

terms greater than one year as of December 31, 2013. 
(in millions) 
Operating  
leases 
Capital 
leases 
Year ended December 31, 
2014 $ 1,155 
3 2015 1,052 2 2016 908 3 2017 778 3 2018 648 3 Thereafter 
2,812 13 Total minimum lease payments 
$ 7,353 
27 Executory costs 
$ (9) 
Amounts representing interest 
(7) 
Present value of net minimum 
lease payments 
$ 11 Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premises), 
net of rental income, was $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion and 
$1.2 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
The components of other assets were: 
(in millions)
Dec. 31, 
 2013 
 Dec. 31, 
2012 Nonmarketable equity investments: 
Cost method: 
Private equity 
$  2,308 
2,572 Federal bank stock
 4,670 
4,227 Total cost method
 6,978 
6,799 Equity method: 
LIHTC investments (1) 
 6,209 
4,767 Private equity and other
 5,782 
6,156 Total equity method
 11,991 
10,923 Fair value (2)
 1,386 
-Total nonmarketable 
equity investments 
 20,355 
17,722 Corporate/bank-owned life insurance 
 18,738 
18,649 Accounts receivable
 21,422 
25,828 Interest receivable
 5,019 
5,006 Core deposit intangibles
 4,674 
5,915 Customer relationship and 
other amortized intangibles
 1,084 
1,352 Foreclosed assets: 
Government insured/guaranteed (3)
 2,093 
1,509 Non-government insured/guaranteed
 1,844 
2,514 Operating lease assets
 2,047 
2,001 Due from customers on acceptances 
279 282 Other 8,787 
12,800 Total other assets 
$  86,342 
93,578 (1) Represents low income housing tax credit investments. 
(2) Represents nonmarketable equity investments for which we have elected the 
fair value option. See Note 17 for additional information. 
(3) These are foreclosed real estate resulting from government insured/guaranteed 

loans. Both principal and interest related to these foreclosed real estate assets 
are collectible because the loans were predominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA. 
Income (expense) related to nonmarketable equity 
investments was: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Net realized gains from nonmarketable 
equity investments 
$ 1,158 
1,086842 All other 
 (287)
 (185)
 (298) 
Total 
$ 871  901 544 Note 8: Securitizations and 
Variable Interest Entities 
Involvement with SPEs 
In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of 
on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose 
entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships 

that are established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are 

formed in connection with securitization transactions. In a 

securitization transaction, assets from our balance sheet are 

transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors various 

forms of interests in those assets and may also enter into 

derivative transactions. In a securitization transaction, we 

typically receive cash and/or 
other interests in an SPE as 
proceeds for the assets we transfer. Also, in certain transactions, 

we may retain the right to service the transferred receivables and 

to repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the outstanding 

balance of the receivables falls to a level where the cost exceeds 

the benefits of servicing such receivables. In addition, we may 

purchase the right to service loans in an SPE that were 

transferred to the SPE by a third party. 
In connection with our securitization activities, we have 
various forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may 

include: 

ŁŁŁŁŁ Ł
Ł underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently 

making markets in those securities; 

providing liquidity facilities to support short-term 
obligations of SPEs issued to third party investors; 

providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs 

or market value guarantees of assets held by SPEs through 

the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit 

default swaps and total return swaps; 
entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 
holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 
acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and 
providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs. 
SPEs are generally considered variable interest entities 
(VIEs). A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity 

investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without 

additional subordinated financ
ial support or whose equity 
investors lack the ability to control the entity™s activities or lack 

the ability to receive expected benefits or absorb obligations in a 

manner that™s consistent with their investment in the entity. A 

VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, the party that has 

both the power to direct the activities that most significantly 

impact the VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be 

significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, 

ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair 

value of the VIE™s net assets. To determine whether or not a 

variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the 

VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors 

regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with the 

VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of 

a VIE on an on-going basis. 
We have segregated our involvement with VIEs between 
those VIEs which we consolidate, those which we do not 

consolidate and those for which we account for the transfers of 

financial assets as secured borrowings. Secured borrowings are 

transactions involving transfers of our financial assets to third 

parties that are accounted for as financings with the assets 

pledged as collateral. Accordingly, the transferred assets remain 

recognized on our balance sheet. Subsequent tables within this 

Note further segregate these transactions by structure type. 
Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balanc
e sheet associated with our transactions with VIEs follow: 
(in millions) 
VIEs that we 
do not 
consolidate  
VIEs 
that we 
consolidate  
Transfers 
that 
we account 
for as secured 
borrowings 
Total  
December 31, 2013 
Cash 
$ -165 7 172 Trading assets
 1,206 
162 193  1,561 
Investment securities 
(1)
 18,795   
 1,352   
 8,976   
 29,123 
Mortgages held for sale
- 38
- 38 
Loans
 7,652 
 6,058 
 6,021 
 19,731 
Mortgage servicing rights
 14,859
--14,859 
Other assets
 6,151 
347 110  6,608 
Total assets 
 48,663 
 8,122 
 15,307 
 72,092 
Short-term borrowings  
-29 (2) 
7,871 
 7,900 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities
 3,464 
99 (2) 
3  3,566 
Long-term debt
 - 2,356 
(2) 
5,673 
 8,029 
Total liabilities
 3,464 
 2,484 
 13,547 
 19,495 
Noncontrolling interests
 -5 -5 Net assets 
$  45,199 
 5,633 
 1,760 
 52,592 
December 31, 2012 
Cash 
$ -260 30 290 Trading assets 
1,902 114 218 2,234 Investment securities (1) 
19,900 
2,772 14,848 37,520 Mortgages held for sale 
-469 -469 Loans 
9,841 10,553 7,088 27,482 Mortgage servicing rights 
11,114 --11,114 Other assets 
4,993 457 161 5,611 Total assets
 47,750 14,625 22,345 84,720 Short-term borrowings 
-2,059 (2) 
13,228 15,287 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
3,441 901 (2) 
20 
4,362 Long-term debt 
-3,483 (2) 
6,520 10,003 Total liabilities 
3,441 6,443 19,768 29,652 Noncontrolling interests 
-48 -48 Net assets 
$ 44,309 
8,134 2,577 55,020 (1) Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home L
oan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and 
GNMA. 
(2) Includes the following VIE liabilities at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, with recourse to the general credit of Well
s Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $0 and 
$2.1 billion; Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $9 million and $767 million; and Long-term debt, $29 million and $29 mill
ion. 
Transactions with Unconsolidated VIEs 
Our transactions with VIEs include securitizations of residential 
mortgage loans, CRE loans, student loans and auto loans and 

leases; investment and financing activities involving 

collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by asset-backed 
and CRE securities, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) 

backed by corporate loans, and other types of structured 

financing. We have various forms of involvement with VIEs, 

including holding senior or subordinated interests, entering into 

liquidity arrangements, credit default swaps and other derivative 

contracts. Involvements with these unconsolidated VIEs are 

recorded on our balance sheet primarily in trading assets, 

investment securities, loans, MSRs, other assets and other 

liabilities, as appropriate. 
The following tables provide a summary of unconsolidated 
VIEs with which we have significant continuing involvement, but 
we are not the primary beneficiary. We do not consider our 

continuing involvement in an unconsolidated VIE to be 

significant when it relates to third-party sponsored VIEs for 

which we were not the transferor or if we were the sponsor but 

do not have any other signif
icant continuing involvement. 
Significant continuing involvement includes transactions 
where we were the sponsor or transferor and have other 

significant forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes 

transactions with unconsolidated VIEs where we solely or 

materially participated in the init
ial design or structuring of the 
entity or marketing of the transaction to investors. When we 

transfer assets to a VIE and account for the transfer as a sale, we 

are considered the transferor. We consider investments in 

securities held outside of trading, loans, guarantees, liquidity 

agreements, written options and servicing of collateral to be 

other forms of involvement that may be significant. We have 
excluded certain transactions with unconsolidated VIEs from the 
balances presented in the following table where we have 

determined that our continuing involvement is not significant 
due to the temporary nature and size of our variable interests, 

because we were not the transferor or because we were not 

involved in the design or operations of the unconsolidated VIEs. 
Carrying value - asset (liability) 
(in millions)
 Total 
 VIE 
 assets 
Debt and 
equity 
interests (1) 
Servicing 
assets 
Derivatives 
Other 
commitments
and 
guarantees 
Net 
assets 
December 31, 2013 
Residential mortgage loan 
securitizations:
 Conforming 
$  1,314,285 
 2,721 
 14,253 
- (745)
 16,229 
 Other/nonconforming
 38,330 
 1,739 
258 - (26)
 1,971 
Commercial mortgage securitizations
 170,088 
 7,627 
325 209 - 8,161 
Collateralized debt obligations:
 Debt securities
 6,730 
37 -214  (130)
 121  Loans (2)
 6,021 
 5,888 
--- 5,888 
Asset-based finance structures
 11,415 
 6,857 
- (84)
 - 6,773 
Tax credit structures
 23,112 
 6,455 
-- (2,213)
 4,242 
Collateralized loan obligations
 4,382
 1,061
 --- 1,061 
Investment funds
 3,464
 54
 --- 54 
Other (3)
 10,343 
860 23 5  (189)
 699  Total 
$  1,588,170 
 33,299 
 14,859 
344  (3,303)
 45,199 
Maximum exposure to loss 
Residential mortgage loan 
Debt and 
equity 
 interests 
Servicing 
assets 
Derivatives 
Other 
commitments 
and 
guarantees 
Total 
exposure 
securitizations: 
Conforming (4) 
$  2,721 
 14,253 
- 2,287 
 19,261 
Other/nonconforming
 1,739 
258 -346  2,343 
Commercial mortgage securitizations
 7,627 
325 322 - 8,274 
Collateralized debt obligations: 
Debt securities
 37
 -214 130 381 Loans (2)
 5,888
 --- 5,888 
Asset-based finance structures
 6,857 
-84  1,665 
 8,606 
Tax credit structures
 6,455 
--626  7,081 
Collateralized loan obligations
 1,061 
--159  1,220 
Investment funds
 54
 -- 31
 85 
Other (3)
 860 23 178 188  1,249 
Total 
$  33,299 
 14,859 
798  5,432 
 54,388 
(continued on following page) 
Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
(continued from previous page) 
Carrying value - asset (liability) 
(in millions) 
Total 
VIE 
assets  
Debt and 
equity 
interests (1) 
Servicing 
assets  
Derivatives  
Other 
commitments 
and 
guarantees 
Net 
assets  
December 31, 2012 
Residential mortgage loan securitizations: 
Conforming 
$  1,268,494 
3,62010,336- (1,690)
 12,266 Other/nonconforming
 49,794 2,188 284 - (53)
 2,419 Commercial mortgage securitizations 
168,126 7,081 466 404 -7,951 Collateralized debt obligations: 
Debt securities
6,940 13 -471 144 628 Loans (2)
8,155 7,962---7,962 Asset-based finance structures 
10,404 7,155 -(104) 
-7,051 Tax credit structures 
20,098 5,180-- (1,657)
 3,523 Collateralized loan obligations 
6,641 1,439 -1 -1,440 Investment funds 
4,771 49 ---49 Other (3)
10,401 977 28 14 1 1,020 Total 
$  1,553,824 
35,66411,114786  (3,255)
 44,309 Maximum exposure to loss 
Residential mortgage loan securitizations: 
Debt and 
equity 
interests 
Servicing 
assets 
Derivatives  
Other 
commitments 
and 
guarantees 
Total 
exposure 
Conforming (4) 
$ 3,620 
10,336 -5,061 19,017 Other/nonconforming 
2,188 284 -353 2,825 Commercial mortgage securitizations 
7,081 466 446 -7,993 Collateralized debt obligations: 
Debt securities 
13 -471 144 628 Loans (2) 
7,962 ---7,962 Asset-based finance structures 
7,155 -104 1,967 9,226 Tax credit structures 
5,180--247 5,427 Collateralized loan obligations
 1,439-1 261 1,701 Investment funds 
49 --27 76 Other (3)
977 28 318 119 1,442 Total 
$ 35,664 
11,114 1,340 8,179 56,297 (1) Includes total equity interests of $6.9 billion at December 31, 2013 and $5.8 billion at December 31, 2012. Also includes debt 
interests in the form of both loans and 
securities. Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. 
(2) Represents senior loans to trusts that are collateralized by asset-backed securities. The trusts invest primarily in senior tra
nches from a diversified pool of primarily U.S. 
asset securitizations, of which all are current, and over 72% and 83% were rated as investment grade by the primary rating agen
cies at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 
respectively. These senior loans are accounted for at amortized cost and are subject to the Company™s allowance and credit char
ge-off policies. 
(3) Includes structured financing, student loan securitizations, auto loan and lease securitizations and credit-linked note structu
res. Also contains investments in auction rate 
securities (ARS) issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and, accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity. 
(4) Maximum exposure to loss for conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations at December 31, 2013 reflects the benefit of 
settlements reached with both FHLMC and 
FNMA in 2013, that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities with FHLMC and FNMA, for mortgage loans either sold or ori
ginated prior to January 1, 2009. For additional 
information on the agreement reached with FHLMC and FNMA see Note 9. 
In the two preceding tables, ﬁTotal VIE assetsﬂ represents the 
remaining principal balance of assets held by unconsolidated 
VIEs using the most current information available. For VIEs that 

obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative 

instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is 

included in the asset balance. ﬁCarrying valueﬂ is the amount in 

our consolidated balance sheet related to our involvement with 

the unconsolidated VIEs. ﬁMaximum exposure to lossﬂ from our 

involvement with off-balance sheet entities, which is a required 

disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of 

our involvement with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs 

plus the remaining undrawn liquidity and lending commitments, 

the notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and 

generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, 

other commitments and guarantees. It represents estimated loss 

that would be incurred un
der severe, hypothetical 
circumstances, for which we believe the possibility is extremely 

remote, such as where the value of our interests and any 

associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration 

of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, 

this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. 
RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS 
Residential mortgage loan 
securitizations are financed through the issuance of fixed- or 
floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized by 
the loans transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we 

originated to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain 

the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficial 

interests issued by the VIEs. We also may be exposed to limited 

liability related to recourse agreements and repurchase 

agreements we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are 

included in other commitment
s and guarantees. In certain 
instances, we may service residential mortgage loan 

securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did 

not originate or transfer. Our residential mortgage loan 

securitizations consist of conforming and nonconforming 

securitizations. 
Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are 
those that are guaranteed by GSEs, including GNMA. Because of 

the power of the GSEs over the VI
Es that hold the assets from 
these conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations, we 

do not consolidate them. 
The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming residential 
mortgage loan securitizations are those that do not qualify for a 

GSE guarantee. We may hold variable interests issued by the 

VIEs, primarily in the form of senior securities. We do not 

consolidate the nonconforming residential mortgage loan 

securitizations included in the ta
ble because we either do not 
hold any variable interests, hold 
variable interests that we do not 
consider potentially significant or are not the primary servicer 

for a majority of the VIE assets. 
Other commitments and guarantees include amounts related 
to loans sold that we may be required to repurchase, or 

otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for 

losses incurred, due to material breach of contractual 

representations and warranties as well as other retained 

recourse arrangements. The maximum exposure to loss for 

material breach of contractual representations and warranties 
represents a stressed case estimate we utilize for determining 

stressed case regulatory capital needs and is considered to be a 

remote scenario. 
COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS 
Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are financed through 

the issuance of fixed- or floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, 

which are collateralized by the loans transferred to the VIE. In a 

typical securitization, we may transfer loans we originate to 

these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to 

service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued 

by the VIEs. In certain instances, we may service commercial 

mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose 

loans we did not originate or transfer. We typically serve as 

primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The primary or master 

servicer in a commercial mortgage loan securitization typically 

cannot make the most significant decisions impacting the 

performance of the VIE and therefore does not have power over 

the VIE. We do not consolidate the commercial mortgage loan 

securitizations included in the disclosure because we either do 

not have power or do not have a variable interest that could 

potentially be significant to the VIE. 
COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs) 
A CDO is a securitization where a VIE purchases a pool of assets consisting 

of asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of equity 
or notes to investors. In some CDOs, a portion of the assets are 

obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives such as 

credit default swaps or total return swaps. 
Prior to 2008, we engaged in the structuring of CDOs on 
behalf of third party asset managers who would select and 

manage the assets for the CDO. 
Typically, the asset manager has 
some discretion to manage the sale of assets of, or derivatives 

used by the CDO, which generally gives the asset manager the 

power over the CDO. We have not structured these types of 

transactions since the credit market disruption began in late 

2007. 
In addition to our role as arranger we may have other forms 
of involvement with these CDOs, including ones established 

prior to 2008. Such involvement may include acting as liquidity 

provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or 

investor. For certain CDOs, we may also act as the collateral 

manager or servicer. We receive fees in connection with our role 

as collateral manager or servicer. 
We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs 
based on our role in them in combination with the variable 

interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing 

involvement to determine if the nature of our involvement has 

changed. We are not the primary beneficiary of these CDOs in 

most cases because we do not act as the collateral manager or 

servicer, which generally denotes power. In cases where we are 

the collateral manager or servicer, we are not the primary 

beneficiary because we do not hold interests that could 

potentially be significant to the VIE. 
COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs) 
A CLO is a 
securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting 

of loans and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to 
investors. Generally, CLOs are structured on behalf of a third 
party asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets 

for the term of the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has the 

power over the significant decisions of the VIE through its 

discretion to manage the assets of the CLO. We assess whether 

we are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our role in 

them and the variable interests we hold. In most cases, we are 

not the primary beneficiary because we do not have the power to 

manage the collate
ral in the VIE. 
In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms 
of involvement with these CLOs. Such involvement may include 

acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty, secondary market 

maker or investor. For certain CLOs, we may also act as the 

servicer, for which we receive fees in connection with that role. 

We also earn fees for arranging these CLOs and distributing the 

securities. 
ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES 
We engage in various 
forms of structured finance arrangements with VIEs that are 

collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, 

auto and other transportation leases, intellectual property, 

equipment and general corporate credit. We typically provide 

senior financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or 

commodity derivative counterparty when necessary. In most 

cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these structures 

because we do not have power over the significant activities of 

the VIEs involved in them. 
For example, we have investments in asset-backed securities 
that are collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves. 

These fixed-rate and variable-rate securities have been 

structured as single-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds 

that are equivalent to investment-grade securities due to their 
significant overcollateralization. The securities are issued by 

VIEs that have been formed by third party auto financing 

institutions primarily because they require a source of liquidity 

to fund ongoing vehicle sales op
erations. The third party auto 
financing institutions manage the collateral in the VIEs, which is 

indicative of power in them and we therefore do not consolidate 

these VIEs. 
TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES 
We co-sponsor and make 
investments in affordable housing and sustainable energy 

projects that are designed to generate a return primarily through 

the realization of federal tax credits. In some instances, our 

investments in these structures may require that we fund future 

capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. 

While the size of our investment in a single entity may at times 

exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not 

consolidate these structures due to the project sponsor™s ability 

to manage the projects, which is indicative of power in them. 
INVESTMENT FUNDS 
We do not consolidate the investment 
funds because we do not absorb the majority of the expected 

future variability associated with the funds™ assets, including 

variability associated with credit, interest rate and liquidity risks. 
OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs 
Auction rate securities 
(ARS) are debt instruments with long-term maturities, but 
which re-price more frequently, and preferred equities with no 

maturity. At December 31, 2013, we held in our securities 

available-for-sale portfolio $653 million of ARS issued by VIEs 

redeemed pursuant to agreements entered into in 2008 and 

2009, compared with $686 million at December 31, 2012. 
We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS because 
we do not have power over the activities of the VIEs. 
TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES 
VIEs that we wholly own 
issue debt securities or preferre
d equity to third party investors. 
All of the proceeds of the issuance are invested in debt securities 

or preferred equity that we issue to the VIEs. The VIEs™ 

operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance, 

administration and repayment of the securities held by third 

parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the sole assets 

of the VIEs are receivables from us, even though we own all of 

the voting equity shares of the VIEs, have fully guaranteed the 

obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to redeem the 

third party securities under certain circumstances. In our 

consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013 and 

December 31, 2012, we reported the debt securities issued to the 

VIEs as long-term junior subordinated debt with a carrying 

value of $1.9 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, and the 

preferred equity securities issued to the VIEs as preferred stock 

with a carrying value of $2.5 billion at both dates. These 

amounts are in addition to the involvements in these VIEs 

included in the preceding table. 
In 2013, we redeemed $2.8 billion of trust preferred 
securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the 

Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel Committee recommendations 

known as the Basel III standards. 
Securitization Activity Related to Unconsolidated 
VIEs We use VIEs to securitize consumer and CRE loans and other 
types of financial assets, including student loans and auto loans. 

We typically retain the servicing rights from these sales and may 

continue to hold other beneficial interests in the VIEs. We may 

also provide liquidity to investors in the beneficial interests and 

credit enhancements in the form of standby letters of credit. 

Through these securitizations we may be exposed to liability 

under limited amounts of recourse as well as standard 

representations and warranties we make to purchasers and 

issuers. The following table presents the cash flows with our 

securitization trusts that were involved in transfers accounted 

for as sales. 
Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
Year ended December 31,
 2013 
2012 2011  (in millions) 
Mortgage 
loans 
Other
financial 
assets 
Mortgage 
loans 
 Other financial 
assets  
Mortgage 
loans 
Other financial 
assets 
Sales proceeds from securitizations (1) 
$ 357,807 
-535,372 -337,357 -Fees from servicing rights retained
 4,240 
10 4,433 10 4,401 11 Other interests held
 2,284 
93 1,767 135 1,779 263 Purchases of delinquent assets
 18 -62 -9 -Servicing advances, net of repayments
 (34)
 -226 -29 -(1) Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented. 
In 2013, 2012, and 2011, we recognized net gains of 
$149 million, $518 million and $112 million, respectively, from 
transfers accounted for as sales of financial assets in 

securitizations. These net gains primarily relate to commercial 

mortgage securitizations and residential mortgage 

securitizations where the loans were not already carried at fair 

value. 
Sales with continuing involvement during 2013, 2012 and 
2011 predominantly related to securitizations of residential 

mortgages that are sold to the GSEs, including FNMA, FHLMC 

and GNMA (conforming residential mortgage securitizations). 

During 2013, 2012 and 2011 we 
transferred $343.9 billion, 
$517.3 billion and $329.1 billion respectively, in fair value of 

conforming residential mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and 

recorded the transfers as sales. Substantially all of these 

transfers did not result in a gain or loss because the loans were 

already carried at fair value. In connection with all of these 

transfers, in 2013 we recorded a $3.5 billion servicing asset, 

measured at fair value using a Level 3 measurement technique, 

and a $143 million liability for repurchase losses which reflects 

management™s estimate of probable losses related to various 

representations and warranties for the loans transferred, initially 

measured at fair value. In 2012, we recorded a $4.9 billion 

servicing asset and a $274 million liability. In 2011, we recorded 

a $4.0 billion servicing asset and a $101 million liability. 
We used the following key weighted-average assumptions to 
measure mortgage servicing assets at the date of securitization: 
Residential mortgage 
servicing rights
Year ended December 31, 
 2013 
2012 2011 Prepayment speed (1)
 11.2 % 13.4 12.8 Discount rate
 7.3 7.3 7.7 Cost to service ($ per loan) (2) 
$ 184 151 146 (1) The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights 
includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed 

assumptions are influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our 
estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
(2) Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs. 
During 2013, 2012 and 2011, 
we transferred $5.6 billion, 
$3.4 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, in fair value of 
commercial mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and recorded the 

transfers as sales. These transfers resulted in a gain of 

$152 million in 2013, $178 million in 2012 and $48 million in 

2011, respectively, because the loans were carried at LOCOM. In 

connection with these transfers, in 2013 we recorded a servicing 

asset of $20 million, initially meas
ured at fair value using a Level 

3 measurement technique, and available-for-sale securities of 
$54 million, classified as Level 2. In 2012, we recorded a 

servicing asset of $13 million and available-for-sale securities of 
$116 million. In 2011, we recorded a servicing asset of 

$20 million and available-for-sale securities of $532 million. 
Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
The following table provides key economic assumptions and 
the sensitivity of the current fair value of residential mortgage 
servicing rights and other retained interests to immediate 

adverse changes in those assumptions. ﬁOther interests heldﬂ 

relate predominantly to reside
ntial and commercial mortgage 
loan securitizations. Residential mortgage-backed securities 

retained in securitizations issued through GSEs, such as FNMA, 

FHLMC and GNMA, are excluded from the table because these 

securities have a 
remote risk of credit loss due to the GSE 
guarantee. These securities also have economic characteristics 

similar to GSE mortgage-backed securities that we purchase, 

which are not included in the table. Subordinated interests 

include only those bonds whose credit rating was below AAA by 

a major rating agency at issuance. Senior interests include only 

those bonds whose credit rating was AAA by a major rating 

agency at issuance. The information presented excludes trading 

positions held in inventory. 
Other interests held 
Consumer
 Commercial 
(2) 
($ in millions, except cost to service amounts) 
Residential 
mortgage
servicing 
rights (1)
 Interest- 
only 
 strips 
Subordinated 
bonds 
Senior 
bonds 
Subordinated 
bonds 
Senior 
bonds 
Fair value of interests held at December 31, 2013 
$ 15,580 
135 39 -283 587 Expected weighted-average life (in years)
 6.4
 3.8
 5.9
- 3.6
 6.3 
Key economic assumptions: 
Prepayment speed assumption (3) 
 10.7 %
 10.7
 6.7
-Decrease in fair value from: 
10% adverse change 
$ 864 
 3  --25% adverse change
 2,065
7--Discount rate assumption
 7.8 % 
 18.3
 4.4
- 4.5
 3.6 
Decrease in fair value from: 
100 basis point increase 
$ 840 
 2  2 -30 30 200 basis point increase
 1,607 
5 4 -38 58 Cost to service assumption ($ per loan)
 191 Decrease in fair value from: 
10% adverse change
 636 25% adverse change
 1,591 
Credit loss assumption
 0.4 % 
- 14.2
 -Decrease in fair value from: 
10% higher losses 
$ -- 29
 -25% higher losses
-- 39
 1 Fair value of interests held at December 31, 2012 
$ 11,538
187 40 -249 982 Expected weighted-average life (in years) 
4.8 
4.1 
5.9 -4.7 5.3 Key economic assumptions: 
Prepayment speed assumption (3)
 15.7 %
10.6 6.8 -Decrease in fair value from: 
10% adverse change 
$ 869 
5 --25% adverse change 
2,038 12 --Discount rate assumption
 7.4 %
16.9 8.9 -3.5 2.2 Decrease in fair value from: 
100 basis point increase 
$ 562 
4 2 -12 43 200 basis point increase 
1,073 8 4 -21 84 Cost to service assumption ($ per loan) 
219 Decrease in fair value from: 
10% adverse change 
615 
25% adverse change 
1,537 
Credit loss assumption 
0.4 % 
-10.0 -Decrease in fair value from: 
10% higher losses 
$ --12 -25% higher losses 
--19 -(1) See narrative following this table for a discussion of commercial mortgage servicing rights. 
(2) Prepayment speed assumptions do not significantly impact the value of commercial mortgage securitization bonds as the underlyin
g commercial mortgage loans experience 
significantly lower prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower™s ability to prepay the mortgag
e. (3) The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rat
es. Prepayment speed assumptions are 
influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
In addition to residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) 
included in the previous table, we have a small portfolio of 
commercial MSRs with a fair value of $1.6 billion and 

$1.4 billion at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, 

respectively. The nature of our commercial MSRs, which are 

carried at LOCOM, is different from our residential MSRs. 

Prepayment activity on serviced loans does not significantly 

impact the value of commercial MSRs because, unlike residential 

mortgages, commercial mortgages experience significantly lower 

prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting 

the borrower™s ability to prepay the mortgage. Additionally, for 

our commercial MSR portfolio, we are typically master/primary 

servicer, but not the special servicer, who is separately 

responsible for the servicing and workout of delinquent and 

foreclosed loans. It is the special servicer, similar to our role as 

servicer of residential mortgage loans, who is affected by higher 

servicing and foreclosure costs due to an increase in delinquent 

and foreclosed loans. Accordingly, prepayment speeds and costs 

to service are not key assumptions for commercial MSRs as they 

do not significantly impact the valuation. The primary economic 

driver impacting the fair value of our commercial MSRs is 

forward interest rates, which are derived from market 

observable yield curves used to price capital markets 

instruments. Market interest ra
tes most significantly affect 
interest earned on custodial deposit balances. The sensitivity of 

the current fair value to an immediate adverse 25% change in the 

assumption about interest earned on deposit balances at 
December 31, 2013, and 2012, results in a decrease in fair value 
of $175 million and $139 million, respectively. See Note 9 for 

further information on our commercial MSRs. 
The sensitivities in the preceding paragraph and table are 
hypothetical and caution should be exercised when relying on 

this data. Changes in value base
d on variations in assumptions 
generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the 

change in the assumption to th
e change in value may not be 
linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption 

on the value of the other interests held is calculated 

independently without changing
 any other assumptions. In 

reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in others (for 

example, changes in prepayment speed estimates could result in 

changes in the credit losses), which might magnify or counteract 

the sensitivities. 
The following table presents information about the principal 
balances of off-balance sheet securitized loans, including 
residential mortgages sold to FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and 

securitizations where servicing is our only form of continuing 

involvement. Delinquent loans include loans 90 days or more 

past due and still accruing intere
st as well as nonaccrual loans. 
In securitizations where servicing is our only form of continuing 

involvement, we would only experience a loss if required to 

repurchase a delinquent loan due to a breach in representations 

and warranties associated with our loan sale or servicing 

contracts.  Total 
loans 
Delinquent loans 
Net charge-offs
December 31, 
December 31, 
Year ended 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012  2013 
2012  2013 
2012 Commercial: 
Real estate mortgage 
$ 119,346 
128,564 8,808 
12,216 617 541 Total commercial
 119,346 
128,564 8,808 
12,216 617 541 Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 1,313,298 
 1,283,504 
 17,009 
21,574 797 1,170 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 1 1 ----Other revolving credit and installment
 1,790 
2,034 99 110 --Total consumer 
 1,315,089 
 1,285,539 
 17,108 
21,684 797 1,170 Total off-balance sheet securitized loans (1) 
$  1,434,435 
 1,414,103 
 25,916 
33,900 1,414 
1,711 (1) At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the table includes total loans of $1.3 trillion at both dates and delinquent loans of $14.0 bill
ion and $17.4 billion, respectively for FNMA, 
FHLMC and GNMA. Net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA as we do not service or manage the underlying real e
state upon foreclosure and, as such, 
do not have access to net charge-off information. 
Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured 
Borrowings 
The following table presents a summary of transfers of financial 
assets accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements 

with consolidated VIEs. ﬁConsolidated assetsﬂ are presented 

using GAAP measurement methods, which may include fair 

value, credit impairment or othe
r adjustments, and therefore in 
some instances will differ from ﬁTotal VIE assets.ﬂ For VIEs that 

obtain exposure synthetically through derivative instruments, 

the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included in 

ﬁTotal VIE assets.ﬂ On the consolidated balance sheet, we 

separately disclose the consolidated assets of certain VIEs that 

can only be used to settle the liabilities of those VIEs. 
Carrying value 
(in millions) 
Total  
VIE  
assets  
Consolidated 
assets  
Third 
party 
liabilities
Noncontrolling 
 interests 
Net 
assets 
December 31, 2013 
Secured borrowings: 
Municipal tender option bond securitizations 
$ 11,626 
 9,210 
 (7,874)
 - 1,336 
Commercial real estate loans 
486 486  (277)
 -209 Residential mortgage securitizations 
 5,337 
 5,611 
 (5,396)
 -215 Total secured borrowings
 17,449
 15,307
 (13,547)
 - 1,760 
Consolidated VIEs: 
Nonconforming residential 
mortgage loan securitizations
 6,770
 6,018
 (2,214)  
- 3,804 
Multi-seller commercial paper conduit
 -----Structured asset finance
 56
 56
 (18)
 - 38 
Investment funds
 1,536
 1,536
 (70)
 - 1,466 
Other
 582 512  (182)
 (5)
 325 Total consolidated VIEs
 8,944 
 8,122 
 (2,484)
 (5)
 5,633 
Total secured borrowings and consolidated VIEs 
$  26,393 
 23,429 
 (16,031)
 (5)
 7,393 
December 31, 2012 
Secured borrowings: 
Municipal tender option bond securitizations 
$  16,782 
15,130 (13,248) 
-1,882 Commercial real estate loans 
975 975 (696) 
-279 Residential mortgage securitizations  
5,757 6,240 (5,824) 
-416 Total secured borrowings 
23,514 22,345 (19,768) 
-2,577 Consolidated VIEs:  
Nonconforming residential 
mortgage loan securitizations 
8,633 7,707 (2,933) 
-4,774 Multi-seller commercial paper conduit
 2,059 
2,036 (2,053) 
-(17) 
Structured asset finance
 71 71 (17) 
-54 Investment funds 
1,837 
1,837 (2) 
-1,835 Other 3,454 2,974 (1,438) 
(48) 
1,488 Total consolidated VIEs 
16,054 14,625 (6,443) 
(48) 
8,134 Total secured borrowings and consolidated VIEs 
$ 39,568 
36,970 (26,211)
 (48)
 10,711 We have raised financing through the securitization of 
certain financial assets in transactions with VIEs accounted for 

as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are 

the primary beneficiary. In certain transactions we provide 

contractual support in the form of limited recourse and liquidity 

to facilitate the remarketing of short-term securities issued to 

third party investors. Other than this limited contractual 

support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source of repayment 

of the securities held by third parties. 
In addition to the transactions included in the previous table, 
at both December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, we had 

approximately $6.0 billion of private placement debt financing 

issued through a consolidated VIE. The issuance is classified as 

long-term debt in our consolidated financial statements. At 

December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, we pledged 

approximately $6.6 billion and $6.4 billion in loans (principal 

and interest eligible to be capitalized), $160 million and 

$179 million in available-for-sale securities, and $180 million 
and $138 million in cash and cash equivalents to collateralize the 

VIE™s borrowings, respectively. These assets were not transferred 

to the VIE, and accordingly we have excluded the VIE from the 

previous table. 
MUNICIPAL TENDER OPTION BOND SECURITIZATIONS 
As part of our normal portfolio investment activities, we consolidate 

municipal bond trusts that hold highly rated, long-term, fixed-

rate municipal bonds, the majority of which are rated AA or 
better. Our residual interests in these trusts generally allow us to 
capture the economics of owning the securities outright, and 

constructively make decisions that significantly impact the 

economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle, primarily 

by directing the sale of the municipal bonds owned by the 

vehicle. In addition, the residual interest owners have the right 

to receive benefits and bear losses that are proportional to 

owning the underlying municipal bonds in the trusts. The trusts 

obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that 

reprice on a weekly or other basis to third-party investors. Under 
certain conditions, if we elect to terminate the trusts and 

withdraw the underlying assets, the third party investors are 

entitled to a small portion of any unrealized gain on the 

underlying assets. 
We may serve as remarketing agent and/or 
liquidity provider for the trusts. The floating-rate investors have 
the right to tender the certificates at specified dates, often with 

as little as seven days™ notice. Should we be unable to remarket 

the tendered certificates, we are generally obligated to purchase 

them at par under standby liquidity facilities unless the bond™s 

credit rating has declined below investment grade or there has 

been an event of default or bankruptcy of the issuer and insurer. 
NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN 
SECURITIZATIONS  
We have consolidated certain of our 
nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations in 
accordance with consolidation accounting guidance. We have 

determined we are the primary beneficiary of these 

securitizations because we have the power to direct the most 

significant activities of the entity through our role as primary 

servicer and also hold variable interests that we have determined 

to be significant. The nature of our variable interests in these 

entities may include beneficial interests issued by the VIE, 

mortgage servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve 

liabilities. The beneficial interests issued by the VIE that we hold 

include either subordinate or senior securities held in an amount 

that we consider potentially significant. 
MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT 
In July 2013, we dissolved a multi-seller asset-based commercial 
paper conduit we had administered that financed certain client 

transactions. This conduit was a bankruptcy remote entity that 

made loans to, or purchased certificated interests, generally from 

SPEs, established by our clients (sellers) and which were secured 

by pools of financial assets. The conduit funded itself through 

the issuance of highly rated 
commercial paper to third party 
investors. We were the primary beneficiary of the conduit 

because we had power over the significant activities of the 

conduit and had a significant variable interest due to our 

liquidity arrangement. In 2013, we redeemed the outstanding 

commercial paper issued from our multi-seller conduit to third 
party investors at par. 
INVESTMENT FUNDS 
We have consolidated certain of our 
investment funds where we manage the assets of the fund and 

our interests absorb a majority of the funds™ variability. We 

consolidate these VIEs because we have discretion over the 

management of the assets and are the sole investor in these 

funds. 
Note 9: Mortgage Banking Activities 
Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community 
Banking and Wholesale Banking operating segments, consist of 

residential and commercial mortgage originations, sale activity 

and servicing. 
We apply the amortization method to commercial MSRs and 
apply the fair value method to residential MSRs. The changes in 

MSRs measured using the fair value method were: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Fair value, beginning of year 
$ 11,538 
12,603 14,467 Servicing from securitizations or asset transfers (1)
 3,469 
5,182 3,957 Sales
 (583)
 (293)
 -Net additions 
 2,886 
4,889 3,957 Changes in fair value: 
Due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions: 
Mortgage interest rates (2)
 4,362 
 (2,092)
 (3,749) 
Servicing and foreclosure costs (3)
 (228)
 (677)
 (694) 
Discount rates (4) 
- (397)
 (150) 
Prepayment estimates and other (5)
 (736)
 273 913 Net changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions
 3,398 
 (2,893)
 (3,680) 
Other changes in fair value (6)
 (2,242)
 (3,061)
 (2,141) 
Total changes in fair value
 1,156 
 (5,954)
 (5,821) 
Fair value, end of year 
$ 15,580 
11,538 12,603 (1) The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $315 million residential MSRs transferred from amortized MSRs that we elected to car
ry at fair value effective January 1, 2012. 
(2) Primarily represents prepayment speed changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates, but also includes other valuation chan
ges due to changes in mortgage interest 
rates (such as changes in estimated interest earned on custodial deposit balances). 
(3) Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs. 
(4) Reflects discount rate assumption change, excluding portion attributable to changes in mortgage interest rates; the year ended 
December 31, 2012, change reflects 
increased capital return requirements from market participants. 
(5) Represents changes driven by other valuation model inputs or assumptions including prepayment speed estimation changes and othe
r assumption updates. Prepayment 
speed estimation changes are influenced by observed changes in borrower behavior that occur independent of interest rate change
s. (6) Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 
The changes in amortized MSRs were: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Balance, beginning of year 
$ 1,160 
1,445 1,422 Purchases
 176 177 155 Servicing from securitizations or asset transfers (1)
 147  (229)
 132 Amortization (2)
 (254)
 (233)
 (264) 
Balance, end of year (2)
 1,229 
1,160 1,445 Valuation allowance: 
Balance, beginning of year
 - (37)
 (3) 
Reversal of provision (provision) for MSRs in excess of fair value
 -37  (34) 
Balance, end of year (3)
 -- (37) 
Amortized MSRs, net 
$ 1,229 
1,160 1,408 Fair value of amortized MSRs: 
Beginning of year 
$ 1,400 
1,756 1,812 End of year (4)
 1,575 
1,400 1,756 (1) The year ended December 31, 2012, is net of $350 million ($313 million after valuation allowance) of residential MSRs that we e
lected to carry at fair value effective 
January 1, 2012. A cumulative adjustment of $2 million to fair value was recorded in retained earnings at January 1, 2012. 
(2) Includes $350 million in residential amortized MSRs at December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the residential
 MSR amortization was $(50) million. 
(3) Commercial amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata: agency (GSEs) and non-agency. The
re was no valuation allowance recorded 
for the periods presented on the commercial amortized MSRs. Residential amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by
 the following risk strata: mortgages 
sold to GSEs (FHLMC and FNMA) and mortgages sold to GNMA, each by interest rate stratifications. A valuation allowance of $37 m
illion was recorded on the residential 
amortized MSRs for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2012, valuation allowance of $37 million f
or residential MSRs was reversed upon 
election to carry at fair value. 
(4) Includes fair value of $316 million in residential amortized MSRs and $1,440 million in commercial amortized MSRs at December 3
1, 2011. The balances at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, are all commercial amortized MSRs. 
We present the components of our managed servicing 
portfolio in the following table at unpaid principal balance for 
loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for 

owned loans serviced.
 December 
31, (in billions)
 2013 
2012 Residential mortgage servicing: 
Serviced for others 
$ 1,485 
1,498 Owned loans serviced
 338 368 Subservicing
 6 7 Total residential servicing
 1,829 
1,873 Commercial mortgage servicing: 
Serviced for others
 419 408 Owned loans serviced
 107 106 Subservicing
 7 13 Total commercial servicing 
533 527 Total managed servicing portfolio 
$ 2,362 
2,400 Total serviced for others 
$ 1,904 
1,906 Ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others
 0.88 % 0.67 The components of mortgage banking noninterest income were: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Servicing income, net: 
Servicing fees 
Contractually specified servicing fees 
$ 4,442 
4,626 4,611 Late charges 
216 257 298 Ancillary fees
 343 342 354 Unreimbursed direct servicing costs (1)
 (1,074)
 (1,234)
 (1,119) 
Net servicing fees 
 3,927 
3,991 4,144 Changes in fair value of MSRs carried at fair value: 
Due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions (2)
 3,398 
(2,893)
 (3,680) 
Other changes in fair value (3)
 (2,242)
 (3,061)
 (2,141) 
Total changes in fair value of MSRs carried at fair value
 1,156 
(5,954)
 (5,821) 
Amortization
 (254) 
(233)
 (264) 
Provision for MSRs in excess of fair value
 -- (34) 
Net derivative gains (losses) from economic hedges (4)
 (2,909)
 3,574 5,241 Total servicing income, net
 1,920 
1,378 3,266 Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities
 6,854 
10,260 4,566 Total mortgage banking noninterest income 
$ 8,774 
11,638 7,832 Market-related valuation changes to MSRs, net of hedge results (2) + (4) 
$ 489 681 1,561 (1) Primarily associated with foreclosure expenses and certain interest costs. 
(2) Refer to the changes in fair value of MSRs table in this Note for more detail. 
(3) Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 
(4) Represents results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of MSRs. Se
e Note 16 Œ Free-Standing Derivatives for 
additional discussion and detail. 
Note 9:  Mortgage Banking Activities 
(continued) 
The table below summarizes the changes in our liability for 
mortgage loan repurchase losses. This liability is in ﬁAccrued 
expenses and other liabilitiesﬂ in our consolidated balance sheet 

and the provision for repurchase losses reduces net gains on 

mortgage loan origination/sales activities. Because the level of 

mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic 

factors, investor demand strategies and other external 

conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, 

the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requires considerable management 

judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the 

Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), and other significant 

investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and 

issues as part of our process to update our repurchase liability 

estimate as new information becomes available. The Company 

reached settlements with both FHLMC and FNMA in 2013, that 

resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities associated with 

loans sold to FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009 and loans sold to 

FNMA that were originated prior to January 1, 2009. 
Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates 
underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of 

losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability 

that is reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible 

loss for representations and warranties does not represent a 

probable loss, and is based on currently available information, 

significant judgment, and a number of assumptions that are 

subject to change. The high end of this range of reasonably 

possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was 

$896 million at December 31, 2013, and was determined based 

upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to assume 

significant changes in investor repurchase demand practices) 
utilized in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we 
believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse 

assumptions. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Balance, beginning of year 
$ 2,206 
1,326 1,289 Provision for repurchase losses: 
Loan sales 
143 275 101 Change in estimate (1)
 285 1,665 1,184 Total additions 
428 1,940 1,285 Losses (2)
 (1,735)
 (1,060)
 (1,248) 
Balance, end of year 
$ 899 2,206 1,326 (1) Results from such factors as changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer 
practices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stability of 

correspondent lenders. 
(2) Year ended December 31, 2013, reflects $746 million and $508 million as a 

result of the settlements reached with FHLMC and FNMA, respectively, that 
resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities associated with loans sold to 
FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009 and loans sold to FNMA that were originated 

prior to January 1, 2009. 
Note 10: Intangible Assets 
The gross carrying value of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was: 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Gross
carrying 
value 
Accumulated
amortization 
 Net 
 carrying
value 
Gross  carrying 
 value 
Accumulated 
amortization 
Net 
carrying 
value 
Amortized intangible assets (1): 
MSRs (2) 
$  2,639 
 (1,410)
 1,229   
2,317 (1,157)
 1,160 Core deposit intangibles
 12,834 
 (8,160)
 4,674   
 12,836 (6,921)
5,915 Customer relationship and other intangibles
 3,145 
 (2,061)
 1,084   
 3,147 (1,795)
1,352 Total amortized intangible assets 
$  18,618 
 (11,631)
 6,987   
18,300 (9,873)
 8,427 Unamortized intangible assets: 
MSRs (carried at fair value) (2) 
$  15,580 
11,538 Goodwill 
 25,637 
25,637 Trademark
14 14 (1) Excludes fully amortized intangible assets. 
(2) See Note 9 for additional information on MSRs. 
The following table provides the current year and estimated 
future amortization expense for amortized intangible assets. We 
based our projections of amortization expense shown below on 

existing asset balances at December 31, 2013. Future 

amortization expense may vary from these projections.
(in millions) 
 Amortized 
MSRs 
Core 
deposit 
intangibles 
 Customer 
relationship
and other 
intangibles 
Total 
Year ended December 31, 2013 (actual) 
$ 254  1,241 
267  1,762 
Estimate for year ended December 31, 
2014 $ 247 
1,113 251 1,611 2015 215 1,022 227 1,464 2016 177 919 212 1,308 2017 134 851 195 1,180 2018 100 769 184 1,053 For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all of the 
goodwill to the individual operating segments. We identify 
reporting units that are one level below an operating segment 

(referred to as a component), and distinguish these reporting 

units based on how the segments and components are managed, 

taking into consideration the economic characteristics, nature of 

the products and customers of the components. At the time we 

acquire a business, we allocate goodwill to applicable reporting 
units based on their relative fair value, and if we have a 

significant business reorganization, we may reallocate the 

goodwill. See Note 24 for further information on management 

reporting. 
The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to our 
reportable operating segments for purposes of goodwill 

impairment testing. 
(in millions)
 Community 
 Banking 
Wholesal
Banking 
Wealth, 
e Brokerage and 
Retirement  
Consolidated 
Company 
December 31, 2011 
$ 17,924 
6,820 371 25,115 Goodwill from business combinations 
(2)
 524 -522 December 31, 2012 
$ 17,922 
7,344 371 25,637 December 31, 2013 
$  17,922 
 7,344   
371  25,637 
Note 11: Deposits 
Time certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits issued 
by domestic and foreign offices totaled $117.4 billion and 

$90.1 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

Substantially all of these deposits were interest bearing. The 

contractual maturities of these deposits are presented in the 

following table. 
(in millions) 
December 31, 2013 
2014 $ 86,958 
2015 13,308 2016 7,624 2017 2,661 2018 3,263 Thereafter 
3,619 
Total 
$ 117,433 
Of these deposits, the amount of domestic time deposits with 
a denomination of $100,000 or more was $16.6 billion and 

$23.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The 

contractual maturities of these deposits are presented in the 

following table. 
(in millions)
 2013 Three months or less 
$ 3,177 
After three months through six months
 2,003 
After six months through twelve months
 2,741 
After twelve months 
8,685 Total 
$ 16,606 
Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign offices 
with a denomination of $100,000 or more were $15.3 billion and 

$11.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
Demand deposit overdrafts of $554 million and $806 million 
were included as loan balances at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. 
Note 12: Short-Term Borrowings 
The table below shows selected information for short-term 

borrowings, which predominantly mature in less than 30 days. 

We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to 

collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities 

financings. For additional information, see the ﬁPledged Assetsﬂ 

section of Note 14. 
2013 
2012 2011 (in millions) 
Amount 
Rate 
Amount 
Rate  
Amount 
Rate 
As of December 31, 
Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase 
$ 36,263 
 0.05 % 
$ 34,973 0.17 % 
$  31,038 
0.05 %  Commercial paper
 5,162 
0.18 4,038 0.27 3,624 0.23 Other short-term borrowings
 12,458 
0.31 18,164 0.16 14,429 0.18 Total 
$ 53,883 
0.12 $ 57,175 
0.17 $ 49,091 
0.10 Year ended December 31, 

Average daily balance 
Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase 
$ 36,227 
0.08 $ 32,092 
0.12 $ 34,388 
0.11 Commercial paper
 4,702 
0.25 4,142 0.26 4,437 0.26 Other short-term borrowings
 13,787 
0.22 14,962 0.29 12,956 0.35 Total 
$ 54,716 
0.13 $ 51,196 
0.18 $ 51,781 
0.18 Maximum month-end balance 
Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase (1) 
$ 39,451 
N/A $ 36,327 
N/A 
$ 37,509 
N/A 
Commercial paper (2)
 5,700 
N/A 5,036 N/A 
6,229 N/A 
Other short-term borrowings (3)
 16,564 
N/A 18,164 N/A 
14,429 N/A 
N/A- Not applicable 
(1) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was May 2013, June 2012 and March 2011. 
(2) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was March 2013, September 2012 and April 2011. 
(3) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was March 2013, December 2012 and December 2011. 
Note 13: Long-Term Debt 
We issue long-term debt denominated in multiple currencies, 
predominantly in U.S. dollars. Our issuances have both fixed and 

floating interest rates. As a part of our overall interest rate risk 

management strategy, we often use derivatives to manage our 

exposure to interest rate risk. We also use derivatives to manage 

our exposure to foreign currency risk. As a result, the long-term 

debt presented below is primarily hedged in a fair value or cash 

flow hedge relationship. See Note 16 for further information on 

qualifying hedge contracts. 
Following is a summary of our long-term debt carrying 
values, reflecting unamortized debt discounts and premiums, 

and purchase accounting adjustments, where applicable. The 

interest rates displayed represent the range of contractual rates 

in effect at December 31, 2013. These interest rates do not 

include the effects of any associated derivatives designated in a 

hedge accounting relationship. 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 (in millions) 
Maturity 
date(s) 
Stated 
interest rate(s) 
Wells Fargo & Company (Parent only) 
Senior 
Fixed-rate notes 
2014-2038 
1.00-6.75% 
$  44,145 
44,623 Floating-rate notes 
2014-2048 
0.00-3.598  
 12,445 
10,996 Structured notes (1) 
2014-2053 
Varies
 4,891 
3,633 Total senior debt - Parent
 61,481 
59,252 Subordinated 

Fixed-rate notes (2) 
2014-2044 
3.45-7.574%
 17,469 
11,340 Floating-rate notes 
2015-2016 
0.576-0.614  
 1,190 
1,165 Total subordinated debt - Parent
 18,659 
12,505 Junior subordinated 
Fixed-rate notes - hybrid trust securities 
2029-2068 
5.95-7.95%
 1,178 
4,221 Floating-rate notes 
2027 0.744-1.244  
263 255 Total junior subordinated debt -Parent (3)
 1,441 
4,476 Total long-term debt -Parent (2)
 81,581 
76,233 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and other bank entities (Bank) 
Senior Fixed-rate notes 
2015 0.75% 500 1,331 Floating-rate notes 
2015-2053 
0.00-0.522  
 2,219 
170 Floating-rate extendible notes (4) 
2015 0.291-0.346  
 10,749 
4,450 Fixed-rate advances - Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) (5) 
2014-2031 
3.83 - 8.17
 160 216 Floating-rate advances -FHLB (5) 
2018-2019 
0.22-0.29
 19,000 
2,002 Structured notes (1) 
2014-2025 
Varies
 13 163 Capital leases (Note 7) 
2014-2025 
Varies
 11 12 Total senior debt - Bank
 32,652 
8,344 Subordinated 

Fixed-rate notes 
2014-2038 
4.75-7.74%
 10,725 
14,153 Floating-rate notes 
2014-2017 
0.448-2.965  
 1,616 
1,617 Total subordinated debt - Bank
 12,341 
15,770 Junior subordinated 
Floating-rate notes 
2027 0.811-0.894%
 303 294 Total junior subordinated debt - Bank (3)
 303 294 Long-term debt issued by VIE -Fixed rate (6) 
2014-2047 
0.00-7.00%
 1,098 
1,542 Long-term debt issued by VIE -Floating rate (6) 
2015-2042 
0.296-32.11 
 1,230 1,826 Mortgage notes and other debt (7) 
2014-2062 
0.00-12.80
 16,87
4 16,976 Total long-term debt -Bank
 64,498 
44,752 (continued on following page) 
Note 13: Long-Term Debt 
(continued) 
(continued from previous page) 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 (in millions) 
Maturity 
date(s) 
Stated 
interest rate(s) 
Other consolidated subsidiaries 
Senior Fixed-rate notes 
2014-2023 
2.774-4.38%
 6,543 
5,968 FixFloat notes 
2020 6.795% through 2015, varies
 20 20 Total senior debt - Other consolidated subsidiaries
 6,563 
5,988 Junior subordinated 
Floating-rate notes 
2027 0.736% 155 155 Total junior subordinated debt - Other 
consolidated subsidiaries (3)
 155 155 Long-term debt issued by VIE -Fixed rate (6) 
2015 5.16% 18 105 Long-term debt issued by VIE -Floating rate (6) 
2015 1.544 10 10 Mortgage notes and other (7) 
2014-2022 
1.54-6.00
 173 136 Total long-term debt -Other consolidated subsidiaries
 6,919 
6,394 Total long-term debt 
$  152,998 
127,379 (1) Primarily consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity, commodity, or currency 
index, or basket of indices accounted for 
separately from the note as a free-standing derivative. For information on embedded derivatives, see Note 16 Œ Free-standing de
rivatives. In addition, a major portion 
consists of zero coupon callable notes where interest is paid as part of the final redemption amount. 
(2) Includes fixed-rate subordinated notes issued by the Parent at a discount of $140 million in fourth quarter 2013 to effect a mo
dification of Wells Fargo Bank, NA notes. These 
notes are carried at their par amount on the balance sheet of the Parent presented in Note 25. 
(3) Represents junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly-owned trusts formed for the sole purpose of issuing tru
st preferred securities. See Note 8 for 
additional information on our trust preferred security structures. 
(4) Represents floating-rate extendible notes where holders of the notes may elect to extend the contractual maturity of all or a p
ortion of the principal amount on a periodic 
basis. 
(5) At December 31, 2013, Federal Home Loan Bank advances are secured by residential loan collateral. Outstanding advances at Decem
ber 31, 2012, were secured by 
investment securities and residential loan collateral. 
(6) For additional information on VIEs, see Note 8. 
(7) Primarily related to securitizations and secured borrowings, see Note 8. 
The aggregate carrying value of long-term debt that matures 
(based on contractual payment dates) as of December 31, 2013, 
in each of the following five years and thereafter, is presented in 

the following table. 
(in millions)
 Parent 
Company 
2014 $ 8,535
 12,800 2015 8,684 26,531 2016 15,734 19,732 2017 9,122 13,114 2018 7,937 26,867 Thereafter 
31,569 53,954 Total 
$ 81,581 152,998 As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing 
arrangements, we are subject to various financial and 

operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which 

debt has been issued have provisions that may limit the merger 

or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of capital 

stock or convertible securities by certain subsidiary banks. At 

December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all the 

covenants. 
   
                  
        
  
   
                     -- ---- --- ------Note 14:  Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 
Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make 
payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in 

an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are 

generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities 

lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements, 
written put options, recourse obligations, residual value 

guarantees, and contingent consideration. The following table 

shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our 

guarantees and the related non-investment grade amounts. 
December 31, 2013 
Maximum exposure to loss 
$$$ $(in millions) 
Car
rying 
value  
Expires in 
one year 
or less 
Expires after 
one year 
through 
three years 
Expires after 
three years 
through 
five years 
Expires after five 
years Total 
Non-
investment 
grade Standby letters of credit
 (1) 
56  16,907 
 11,628 
 5,308 
994  34,837 
 9,512 
Securities lending and 
other indemnifications
3 18  3,199 
 3,220 
25 Liquidity agreements
 (2)
 17
 17
Written put options 
(3)
 907  4,775 
 2,967 
 3,521 
 2,725 
 13,988 
 4,311 
Loans and MHFS sold with recourse
 86 116 418 849  5,014 
 6,397 
 3,674 
Contingent consideration
 30 15 94 109 109 Other guarantees
 3 329 17 16 954  1,316 
4 Total guarantees 
 1,082 
 22,142 
 15,127 
 9,712 
 12,903 
 59,884 
 17,635 
December 31, 2012 
Maximum exposure to loss 
(in millions) 
Carrying 
value 
Expires in 
one year 
or less 
Expires after  
one year 
through  
three years  
Expires after  
three years 
through  
five years  
Expires after 
five years 
Total  
Non-  
investment  
grade Standby letters of credit 
(1) 
42 19,463 11,782 6,531 1,983 39,759 11,331 Securities lending and
 other indemnifications
3 7 20 2,511 2,541 118 Liquidity agreements
(2)
3 3 3 Written put options
(2)
(3)
 1,427 2,951 3,873 2,475 2,575 11,874 3,953 Loans and MHFS sold with recourse
 99 443 357 647 4,426 5,873 3,905 Contingent consideration
 35 11 24 94 129 129 Other guarantees 3 677 26 1 717 1,421 4 Total guarantees 
1,606 23,548 16,069 9,768 12,215 61,600 19,443 (1) Total maximum exposure to loss includes direct pay letters of credit (DPLCs) of $16.8 billion and $18.5 billion at December 31,
 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. 
We issue DPLCs to provide credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. Beneficiaries (bond trustees) may draw upon these ins
truments to make scheduled principal and 
interest payments, redeem all outstanding bonds because a default event has occurred, or for other reasons as permitted by the 
agreement. We also originate multipurpose 
lending commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw on the facility in one of several forms, including as a stand
by letter of credit. Total maximum exposure 
to loss includes the portion of these facilities for which we have issued standby letters of credit under the commitments. 
(2) Certain of these agreements included in this table are related to off-balance sheet entities and, accordingly, are also disclos
ed in Note 8. 
(3) Written put options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative disclosures in Note 16. 
ﬁMaximum exposure to lossﬂ and ﬁNon-investment gradeﬂ 
are required disclosures under GAAP. Non-investment grade 
represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk of 
being required to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If 

the underlying assets under the guarantee are non-investment 
grade (that is, an external rating that is below investment grade 

or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent to a below 

investment grade external rating), we consider the risk of 

performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are 

determined based upon the same credit policies that we use to 

evaluate the risk of payment or performance when making loans 

and other extensions of credit. These credit policies are further 

described in Note 6. 
Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that 
would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical circumstance, 

despite what we believe is its extremely remote possibility, where 

the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines 

to zero. Maximum exposure to loss estimates in the table above 

do not reflect economic hedges or collateral we could use to 

offset or recover losses we may incur under our guarantee 

agreements. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an 

indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which 

is either fair value for deriva
tive related products or the 
allowance for lending related commitments, is more 

representative of our exposure to loss than maximum exposure 

to loss. 
        
      
          
       
     
     
              
                                             
 Note 14:  Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 
(continued) 
STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT 
We issue standby letters of 
credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for 
customers in connection with contracts between our customers 

and third parties. Standby letters of credit are agreements where 

we are obligated to make payment to
 a third party on behalf of a 

customer in the event the customer fails to meet their 

contractual obligations. We consider the credit risk in standby 

letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit in 

determining the allowance for credit losses. Standby letters of 

credit include direct pay letters of credit we issue to provide 

credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. 
SECURITIES LENDING AND OTHER INDEMNIFICATIONS
 As a securities lending agent, we lend debt and equity securities 

from participating institutional cl
ients™ portfolios to third-party 
borrowers. These arrangements are for an indefinite period of 

time whereby we indemnify our clients against default by the 

borrower in returning these lent securities. This indemnity is 

supported by collateral received from the borrowers and is 

generally in the form of cash or highly liquid securities that are 

marked to market daily. There was $346 million at 

December 31, 2013 and $443 million at December 31, 2012, in 
collateral supporting loaned securities with values of $337 

million and $436 million, respectively. 
We use certain third party clearing agents to clear and settle 
transactions on behalf of some of our institutional brokerage 

customers. We indemnify the clearing agents against loss that 

could occur for non-performance by our customers on 
transactions that are not sufficiently collateralized. Transactions 

subject to the indemnifications may include customer 

obligations related to the settlement of margin accounts and 

short positions, such as written call options and securities 

borrowing transactions. Outstanding customer obligations were 

$769 million and $579 million and the related collateral was 

$3.7 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2013, and 

December 31, 2012, respectively. Our estimate of maximum 

exposure to loss, which requires judgment regarding the range 

and likelihood of future events, was $2.9 billion as of 

December 31, 2013, and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. 
We enter into other types of 
indemnification agreements in 
the ordinary course of business under which we agree to 

indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and 

expenses incurred in connection with legal and other 

proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us. 

These relationships or transactions include those arising from 

service as a director or officer of the Company, underwriting 

agreements relating to our securities, acquisition agreements 

and various other business transactions or arrangements. 

Because the extent of our obligations under these agreements 

depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, we are 

unable to determine our potential future liability under these 

agreements. We do, however, record a liability for residential 

mortgage loans that we expect to repurchase pursuant to various 

representations and warranties. See Note 9 for additional 

information on the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. 
LIQUIDITY AGREEMENTS 
We provide liquidity to certain off-
balance sheet entities that hold 
securitized fixed-rate municipal 
bonds and consumer or commercial assets that are partially 

funded with the issuance of money market and other short-term 
notes. See Note 8 for additional information on securitizations 

and VIEs. 
WRITTEN PUT OPTIONS
  Written put options are contracts 
that give the counterparty the right to sell to us an underlying 

instrument held by the counterp
arty at a specified price, and 
include options, floors, caps and credit default swaps. These 

written put option contracts generally permit net settlement. 

While these derivative transactions expose us to risk in the event 

the option is exercised, we manage this risk by entering into 

offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying 

instrument. We offset substantially all put options written to 

customers with purchased options. Additionally, for certain of 

these contracts, we require the counterparty to pledge the 

underlying instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our 

ultimate obligation under written put options is based on future 

market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. See 

Note 16 for additional information regarding written derivative 

contracts. LOANS AND MHFS SOLD WITH RECOURSE
  In certain loan 
sales or securitizations, we provide recourse to the buyer 

whereby we are required to indemnify the buyer for any loss on 

the loan up to par value plus accrued interest. We provide 

recourse, predominantly to the GSEs, on loans sold under 

various programs and arrangements. Primarily all of these 

programs and arrangements require that we share in the loans™ 

credit exposure for their remaining life by providing recourse to 

the GSE, up to 33.33% of actual losses incurred on a pro-rata 

basis, in the event of borrower default. Under the remaining 

recourse programs and arrangements, if certain events occur 

within a specified period of time from transfer date, we have to 

provide limited recourse to the buyer to indemnify them for 

losses incurred for the remaining life of the loans. The maximum 

exposure to loss reported in the accompanying table represents 

the outstanding principal balance of the loans sold or securitized 

that are subject to recourse provisions or the maximum losses 

per the contractual agreements. However, we believe the 

likelihood of loss of the entire balance due to these recourse 

agreements is remote and amounts paid can be recovered in 

whole or in part from the sale of collateral. During 2013 and 

2012 we repurchased $33 million and $26 million, respectively, 

of loans associated with these agreements. We also provide 

representation and warranty guarantees on loans sold under the 

various recourse programs and arrangements. Our loss exposure 

relative to these guarantees is separately considered and 

provided for, as necessary, in determination of our liability for 
loan repurchases due to breaches of representation and 

warranties. See Note 9 for additional information on the liability 

for mortgage loan repurchase losses. 
                                               
    
        
             
      
       
                     
    
    
CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION 
In connection with certain 
brokerage, asset management, insurance agency and other 
acquisitions we have made, the terms of the acquisition 

agreements provide for deferred payments or additional 

consideration, based on certain performance targets. 
OTHER GUARANTEES 
We are members of exchanges and 
clearing houses that we use to clear our trades and those of our 

customers. It is common that all members in these organizations 

are required to collectively guarantee the performance of other 

members. Our obligations under the guarantees are based on 

either a fixed amount or a multiple of the collateral we are 

required to maintain with these organizations. We have not 

recorded a liability for these arrangements as of the dates 

presented in the previous table because we believe the likelihood 

of loss is remote. 
We also have contingent performance arrangements related 
to various customer relationships and lease transactions. We are 

required to pay the counterparties to these agreements if third 

parties default on certain obligations. 
Pledged Assets  
As part of our liquidity management
 strategy, we pledge assets to 
secure trust and public deposits, borrowings and letters of credit 

from the FHLB and FRB, securities sold under agreements to 

repurchase (repurchase agreements), and for other purposes as 

required or permitted by law or insurance statutory 

requirements. The types of collateral we pledge include 

securities issued by federal agencies, government-sponsored 

entities (GSEs), domestic and foreign companies and various 

commercial and consumer loans. The following table provides 

the total carrying amount of pledged assets by asset type, of 

which substantially all are pursuant to agreements that do not 

permit the secured party to sell or repledge the collateral. The 

table excludes pledged consolidated VIE assets of $8.1 billion 

and $14.6 billion at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, 

respectively, which can only be used to settle the liabilities of 

those entities. The table also excludes $15.3 billion and 

$22.3 billion in assets pledged in transactions accounted for as 

secured borrowings at December 31, 2013 and 

December 31, 2012, respectively. See Note 8 for additional 
information on consolidated VIE assets and secured borrowings. 
$$(in millions) 
Dec. 31,
2013 
 Dec. 31, 
2012 Trading assets and other 
(1) 
 30,288 
28,031 Investment securities 
(2)
 85,468 
96,018 Loans
 (3)
 381,597 
360,171 Total pledged assets 
 497,353 
484,220 (1) Represent assets pledged to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Balance includes $29.0 billion
 and $27.4 billion at December 31, 2013, and 
December 31, 2012, res
pectivel
y, under a
greements that 
permit the secured 
parties to sell or re
pled
ge the collateral. 
(2) Includes $8.7 billion and $8.4 billion in collateral for repurchase agreements at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, res
pectively, which are pledged under 
agreements that do not permit the secured parties to sell or repledge the collateral. 
(3) Represent loans carried at amortized cost, which are pledged under agreements that do not permit the secured parties to sell or
 repledge the collateral. 
Note 14:  Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 
(continued) 
                                  
    
      
         
        
         
        
           
                 
         
        
         
       
           
  
   
                  
   
   
                  
           
  
              
         
    
    
Offsetting of Resale and Repurchase Agreements 
and Securities Borrowing and Lending 

Agreements 
The table below presents resale and repurchase agreements 
subject to master repurchase agreements (MRA) and securities 

borrowing and lending agreements subject to master securities 

lending agreements (MSLA). We account for transactions 

subject to these agreements as collateralized financings and 

those with a single counterparty are presented net on our 

balance sheet, provided certain criteria are met that permit 

balance sheet netting. Most transactions subject to these 

agreements do not meet those criteria and thus are not eligible 

for balance sheet netting. 
Collateral we pledged consists 
of non-cash instruments, such 
as securities or loans, and is not netted on the balance sheet 

against the related collateralized liability. Collateral we received 
includes securities or loans and is not recognized on our balance 

sheet. Collateral received or pledged may be increased or 

decreased over time to maintain certain contractual thresholds 

as the assets underlying each arrangement fluctuate in value. 

Generally, these agreements require collateral to exceed the 

asset or liability recognized on the balance sheet. The following 

table includes the amount of collateral pledged or received 

related to exposures subject to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs. 

While these agreements are typically over-collateralized, U.S. 

GAAP requires disclosure in this table to limit the amount of 

such collateral to the amount of the related recognized asset or 

liability for each counterparty.  
In addition to the amounts included in the table below, we 
also have balance sheet netting related to derivatives that is 

disclosed within Note 16. 
$$$ (in millions)
Dec. 31
,  2013 
 Dec. 31, 
2012 Assets: 
Resale and securities borrowing agreements 
Gross amounts recognized 
 38,635 
45,847 Gross amounts offset in consolidated balance sheet 
(1)
 (2,817)  
 (2,561) 
Net amounts in consolidated balance sheet 
(2) 35,818 
43,286 Noncash collateral not recognized in consolidated balance sheet 
(3)
 (35,768)
 (42,920) 
Net amount 
(4)
$ 50 
366 Liabilities: 
Repurchase and securities lending agreements 
Gross amounts recognized 
 38,032 
35,876 Gross amounts offset in consolidated balance sheet 
(1)
 (2,817)  
 (2,561) 
Net amounts in consolidated balance sheet 
(5) 35,215 
33,315 Noncash collateral pledged but not netted in consolidated balance sheet 
(6)
 (34,770)
 (33,050) 
Net amount 
(7) 
445 265 (1) Represents recognized amount of resale and repurchase agreements with counterparties subject to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs that 
have been offset in the consolidated 
balance sheet. 
(2) At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, includes $25.7 billion and $33.8 billion, respectively, classified on our consolida
ted balance sheet in Federal funds sold, 
securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments and $10.1 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively,
 in Loans. 
(3) Represents the fair value of non-cash collateral we have received under enforceable MRAs or MSLAs, limited for table presentati
on purposes to the amount of the recognized 
asset due from each counterparty. At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we have received total collateral with a fair val
ue of $43.3 billion and $46.6 billion, 
respectively, all of which, we have the right to sell or repledge. These amounts include securities we have sold or repledged t
o others with a fair value of $23.8 billion at 
December 31, 2013 and $29.7 billion at December 31, 2012. 
(4) Represents the amount of our exposure that is not collateralized and/or is not subject to an enforceable MRA or MSLA. 
(5) Amount is classified in Short-term borrowings on our consolidated balance sheet. 
(6) Represents the fair value of non-cash collateral we have pledged, related to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs, limited for table prese
ntation purposes to the amount of the 
recognized liability owed to each counterparty. At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we have pledged total collateral wi
th a fair value of $39.0 billion and 
$36.4 billion, respectively, of which, the counterparty does not have the right to sell or repledge $10.0 billion as of Decembe
r 31, 2013 and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 
2012. (7) Represents the amount of our exposure that is not covered by pledged collateral and/or is not subject to an enforceable MRA or 
MSLA. 
Note 15: Legal Actions 
Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a 
number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings 

concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business 

activities. These proceedings include actions brought against 

Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect to corporate 

related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or 

our subsidiaries were involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our 

subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or 

otherwise cooperate with governme
nt authorities in the conduct 
of investigations of other persons or industry groups. 
Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate 
outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries have generally 

denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny, 

liability in all significant litigation pending against us, including 

the matters described below, and we intend to defend vigorously 

each case, other than matters we describe as having settled. 

Reserves are established for legal claims when payments 

associated with the claims become
 probable and the costs can be 
reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims 

may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved 

for those claims. 
FHA INSURANCE LITIGATION 
On October 9, 2012, the United 
States filed a complaint, captioned 
United States of America v. 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
, in the U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of New York. The complaint makes claims with 

respect to Wells Fargo™s Federal Housing Administration (FHA) 

lending program for the period 2001 to 2010. The complaint 

alleges, among other allegations, that Wells Fargo improperly 

certified certain FHA mortgage loans for United States 

Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 

insurance that did not qualify for the program, and therefore 

Wells Fargo should not have received insurance proceeds from 

HUD when some of the loans later defaulted. The complaint 

further alleges Wells Fargo knew some of the mortgages did not 

qualify for insurance and did not disclose the deficiencies to 

HUD before making insurance claims. On December 1, 2012, 

Wells Fargo filed a motion in the U.S. District Court for the 

District of Columbia seeking to enforce a release of Wells Fargo 

given by the United States, which was denied on 

February 12, 2013. On April 11, 2013, Wells Fargo appealed the 

decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia 

Circuit, with appellate briefing completed on 

November 26, 2013. On December 14, 2012, the United States 

filed an amended complaint. On January 16, 2013, Wells Fargo 

filed a motion in the Southern District of New York to dismiss 

the amended complaint. On September 24, 2013, the Court 

entered an order denying the motion with respect to the 

government™s federal statutory cl
aims and granting in part, and 
denying in part, the motion with respect to the government™s 

common law claims. On January 10, 2014, the United States 

filed a second amended complaint. 
INTERCHANGE LITIGATION 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells 
Fargo & Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia 

Corporation are named as defendants, separately or in 
combination, in putative class actions filed on behalf of a 

plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by 

individual merchants with regard to the interchange fees 

associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. 

These actions have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court 

for the Eastern District of New York. Visa, MasterCard and 

several banks and bank holding companies are named as 

defendants in various of these actions. The amended and 

consolidated complaint asserts claims against defendants based 

on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and seeks 

damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege 

that Visa, MasterCard and payment card issuing banks 

unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege 

that enforcement of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and 

alleged tying and bundling of se
rvices offered to merchants are 
anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and Wachovia, along with other 

defendants and entities, are parties to Loss and Judgment 

Sharing Agreements, which provide that they, along with other 

entities, will share, based on a formula, in any losses from the 

Interchange Litigation. On July 13, 2012, Visa, MasterCard and 

the financial institution defendants, including Wells Fargo, 

signed a memorandum of understanding with plaintiff 

merchants to resolve the consolidated class actions and reached 

a separate settlement in principle of the consolidated individual 

actions. The proposed settlement payments by all defendants in 

the consolidated class and individu
al actions total approximately 
$6.6 billion. The class settlement also provides for the 

distribution to class merchants of 10 basis points of default 

interchange across all credit rate categories for a period of eight 

consecutive months. The Court granted final approval of the 

settlement, which is proceeding. Merchants have filed several 

ﬁopt-outﬂ actions. 
MARYLAND MORTGAGE LENDING LITIGATION 
On December 26, 2007, a class action complaint captioned 
Denise 
Minter, et al., v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., et al., 
was filed in the 
U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. The complaint 

alleges that Wells Fargo and others violated provisions of the 

Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and other laws by 

conducting mortgage lending business improperly through a 

general partnership, Prosperity Mortgage Company. The 

complaint asserts that Prosperity Mortgage Company was not a 

legitimate affiliated business and instead operated to conceal 

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.™s role in the loans at issue. A plaintiff 

class of borrowers who received a mortgage loan from Prosperity 

Mortgage Company that was funded by Prosperity Mortgage 

Company™s line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from 1993 

to May 31, 2012, had been certified. Prior to trial, the Court 

narrowed the class action to borrowers who were referred to 

Prosperity Mortgage Company by Wells Fargo™s partner and 

whose loans were transferred to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from 

1993 to May 31, 2012. On May 6, 2013, the case went to trial. On 

June 6, 2013, the jury returned a verdict in favor of all 

defendants, including Wells Fargo. The plaintiffs have appealed. 
On July 8, 2008, a class action complaint captioned 
Stacey and Bradley Petry, et al., v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A
., et al., was 
Note 15: Legal Actions 
(continued) 
filed. The complaint alleges that Wells Fargo and others violated 
the Maryland Finder™s Fee Act in the closing of mortgage loans in 

Maryland. On March 13, 2013, the Court held the plaintiff class 

did not have sufficient evidence to proceed to trial, which was 

previously set for March 18, 2013. On June 20, 2013, the Court 

entered judgment in favor of the defendants. The plaintiffs have 

appealed. 
MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS  
Government agencies continue investigations or examinations of 

certain mortgage related practices of Wells Fargo and 

predecessor institutions. Wells Fargo, for itself and for 

predecessor institutions, has responded, and continues to 

respond, to requests from government agencies seeking 

information regarding the origination, underwriting and 

securitization of residential mortgages, including sub-prime 

mortgages. 
ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION  
A series of putative class 
actions have been filed against Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wells 

Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other banks, challenging the 

high to low order in which the ba
nks post debit card transactions 
to consumer deposit accounts. There are currently several such 

cases pending against Wells Fargo Bank (including the Wachovia 

Bank cases to which Wells Fargo succeeded), most of which have 

been consolidated in multi-district litigation proceedings in the 

U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The bank 

defendants moved to compel these cases to arbitration under 

recent Supreme Court authority. On November 22, 2011, the 
Judge denied the motion. The bank defendants appealed the 

decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. On 

October 26, 2012, the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the District 

Court™s denial of the motion. Wells Fargo renewed its motion to 

compel arbitration with respect to the unnamed putative class 

members. On April 8, 2013, 
the District Court denied the 

motion. Wells Fargo has appealed the decision to the Eleventh 

Circuit. On August 10, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the Northern 
District of California issued an order in Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo 

Bank, N.A., a case that was not consolidated in the multi-district 

proceedings, enjoining the bank™s use of the high to low posting 

method for debit card transactions with respect to the plaintiff 

class of California depositors, directing the bank to establish a 

different posting methodology and ordering remediation of 

approximately $203 million. On October 26, 2010, a final 

judgment was entered in Gutierrez. On October 28, 2010, Wells 

Fargo appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth 

Circuit. On December 26, 2012, the Ninth Circuit reversed the 
order requiring Wells Fargo to change its order of posting and 

vacated the portion of the order granting remediation of 

approximately $203 million on the grounds of federal 

preemption. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court™s 

finding that Wells Fargo violated a California state law 

prohibition on fraudulent representations and remanded the 

case to the District Court for further proceedings. On 

August 5, 2013, the District Court entered a judgment against 

Wells Fargo in the approximate amount of $203 million, 

together with post-judgment interest thereon from 

October 25, 2010, and, effective as of July 15, 2013, enjoined 

Wells Fargo from making or disseminating additional 

misrepresentations about its order of posting of transactions. On 

August 7, 2013, Wells Fargo appealed the judgment to the Ninth 

Circuit. SECURITIES LENDING LITIGATION 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is 
involved in five separate pending actions brought by securities 

lending customers of Wells Fargo and Wachovia Bank in various 

courts. In general, each of the cases alleges that Wells Fargo 

violated fiduciary and contractual duties by investing collateral 

for loaned securities in investments that suffered losses. One of 

the cases, filed on March 27, 2012, is composed of a class of 

Wells Fargo securities lending customers in a case captioned 

City of Farmington Hills Employees Retirement System v. Wells 

Fargo Bank, N.A. The class action is pending in the U.S. District 
Court for the District of Minnesota. 
OUTLOOK  
When establishing a liability for contingent litigation 
losses, the Company determines a range of potential losses for 

each matter that is both probable and estimable, and records the 

amount it considers to be the best estimate within the range. The 

high end of the range of reasonably possible potential litigation 

losses in excess of the Company™s liability for probable and 

estimable losses was $951 million as of December 31, 2013. For 

these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is 

reasonably possible but not probable, there may be a range of 

possible losses in excess of the established liability that cannot 

be estimated. Based on information currently available, advice of 

counsel, available insurance coverage and established reserves, 

Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of the actions 

against Wells Fargo and/or its subsidiaries, including the 

matters described above, will not, individually or in the 

aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo™s 

consolidated financial position. However, in the event of 

unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate 

resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may be material to 

Wells Fargo™s results of operations for any particular period. 
Note 16: Derivatives 
We primarily use derivatives to 
manage exposure to market risk, 

including interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, 

and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. 

We designate derivatives either as hedging instruments in a 

qualifying hedge accounting relationship (fair value or cash flow 

hedge) or as free-standing derivatives. Free-standing derivatives 

include economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting and derivatives held for customer accommodation or 

other trading purposes. 
Our asset/liability management approach to interest rate, 
foreign currency and certain other risks includes the use of 

derivatives. Such derivatives are typically designated as fair 

value or cash flow hedges, or economic hedges. This helps 

minimize significant, unplanned fluctuations in earnings, fair 
values of assets and liabilities, and cash flows caused by interest 
rate, foreign currency and other market value volatility. This 

approach involves modifying the repricing characteristics of 

certain assets and liabilities so 
that changes in interest rates, 
foreign currency and other exposures do not have a significantly 

adverse effect on the net interest margin, cash flows and 

earnings. As a result of fluctuations in these exposures, hedged 

assets and liabilities will gain or lose market value. In a fair value 

or economic hedge, the effect of this unrealized gain or loss will 

generally be offset by the gain or loss on the derivatives linked to 

the hedged assets and liabilities. In a cash flow hedge, where we 

manage the variability of cash pa
yments due to interest rate 
fluctuations by the effective use of derivatives linked to hedged 

assets and liabilities, the unrealized gain or loss on the 

derivatives or the hedged asset or liability is generally reflected 

in other comprehensive income and not in earnings. 
We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, 
commodity, equity, credit and foreign exchange contracts, to our 

customers as part of our trading businesses but usually offset our 

exposure from such contracts by entering into other financial 

contracts. These derivative transactions are conducted in an 

effort to help customers manage their market price risks. The 

customer accommodations and any offsetting derivative 
contracts are treated as free-sta
nding derivatives. To a much 
lesser extent, we take positions executed for our own account 

based on market expectations or to benefit from price 

differentials between financial instruments and markets. 

Additionally, free-standing derivatives include embedded 
derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from 

their host contracts. 
The following table presents the total notional or contractual 
amounts and fair values for our derivatives. Derivative 

transactions can be measured in terms of the notional amount, 

but this amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, 

when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk 

profile of the instruments. The notional amount is generally not 

exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which interest and 

other payments are determined. Derivatives designated as 

qualifying hedge contracts and free-standing derivatives 

(economic hedges) are recorded on the balance sheet at fair 

value in other assets or other liabilities. Customer 

accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives are 

recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in trading assets, 

other assets or other liabilities. 
- ------$$ December 31, 2013 
Decem
ber 31, 2012 
Fair value 
Fair value 
(in millions) 
Notional or 
contractual 
amount 
Asset
derivatives
 Liability 
 derivatives 
Notional or 
contractual 
amount 
Asset 
derivatives 
Liability 
derivatives 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments 
Interest rate contracts
 (1) 
 100,412 
 4,315 
 2,528 
92,004 7,284 2,696 Foreign exchange contracts
 26,483 
 1,091 
847 27,382 1,808 274 Total derivatives designated as 
qualifying hedging instruments
 5,406 
 3,375 
9,092 2,970 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
Free-standing derivatives (economic hedges): 
Interest rate contracts
 (2)
 220,577 
595 897 334,555 450 694 Equity contracts
 3,273 
349 206 75 50 
Foreign exchange contracts
 10,064 
21 35 3,074 3 64 Credit contracts - protection purchased
16 Other derivatives
 2,160 
13 16 2,296 78 
Subtotal
 978  1,154 
453 886 Customer accommodation, trading and other 
free-standing derivatives: 
Interest rate contracts
 4,030,068 
 50,936 
 53,113 
 2,774,783 
63,617 65,305 Commodity contracts
 96,889 
 2,673 
 2,603 
90,732 3,456 3,590 Equity contracts
 96,379 
 7,475 
 7,588 
71,958 3,783 4,114 Foreign exchange contracts
 164,160 
 3,731 
 3,626 
166,061 3,713 3,241 Credit contracts - protection sold
 19,501 
354  1,532 
26,455 315 2,623 Credit contracts - protection purchased
 23,314 
 1,147 
368 29,021 1,495 329 Subtotal
 66,316 
 68,830 
76,379 79,202 Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
 67,294 
 69,984 
76,832 80,088 Total derivatives before netting
 72,700 
 73,359 
85,924 83,058 Netting
 (3)
 (56,894)
 (63,739) 
(62,108) 
(71,116) 
Total 
 15,806 
 9,620 
23,816 11,942 (1) Notional amounts presented exclude $1.9 billion at December 31, 2013, and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2012, of certain derivat
ives that are combined for designation as a 
hedge on a single instrument. 
(2) Includes free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs, M
HFS, loans, derivative loan commitments and 
other interests held. 
(3) Represents balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral. See the next table in
 this Note for further information. 
Note 16: Derivatives 
(continued) 
The following table provides information on the gross fair 
values of derivative assets and liabilities, the balance sheet 
netting adjustments and the resulting net fair value amount 

recorded on our balance sheet, as well as the non-cash collateral 

associated with such arrangements. We execute substantially all 

of our derivative transact
ions under master netting 
arrangements. We reflect all derivative balances and related cash 

collateral subject to enforceable master netting arrangements on 

a net basis within the balance sheet. The ﬁGross amounts 

recognizedﬂ column in the following table include $59.8 billion 

and $66.1 billion of gross derivative assets and liabilities, 

respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $68.9 billion and 

$75.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012, with 

counterparties subject to enforceable master netting 

arrangements that are carried on the balance sheet net of 

offsetting amounts. The remaining gross derivative assets and 

liabilities of $12.9 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, at 

December 31, 2013 and $17.0 billion and $7.3 billion, 

respectively, at December 31, 2012, include those with 

counterparties subject to master netting arrangements for which 

we have not assessed the enforceability because they are with 

counterparties where we do not currently have positions to 

offset, those subject to master netting arrangements where we 

have not been able to confirm the enforceability and those not 

subject to master netting arrangements. As such,we do not net 

derivative balances or collateral within the balance sheet for 

these counterparties. 
We determine the balance sheet netting adjustments based 
on the terms specified within each master netting arrangement. 

We disclose the balance sheet netting amounts within the 

column titled ﬁGross amounts offset in consolidated balance 

sheet.ﬂ Balance sheet netting adjustments are determined at the 

counterparty level for which there may be multiple contract 

types. For disclosure purposes, we allocate these adjustments to 

the contract type for each counterparty proportionally based 

upon the ﬁGross amounts recognizedﬂ by counterparty. As a 

result, the net amounts disclosed by contract type may not 

represent the actual exposure upon settlement of the contracts. 
Balance sheet netting does not include non-cash collateral 
that we pledge. For disclosure purposes, we present these 

amounts in the column titled ﬁGross amounts not offset in 

consolidated balance sheet (Disclosure-only netting)ﬂ within the  

table. We determine and allocate the Disclosure-only netting 

amounts in the same manner as balance sheet netting amounts. 
The ﬁNet amountsﬂ column within the following table 
represents the aggregate of our net exposure to each 

counterparty after considering the balance sheet and Disclosure-

only netting adjustments. We manage derivative exposure by 

monitoring the credit risk associated with each counterparty 

using counterparty specific cred
it risk limits, using master 
netting arrangements and obta
ining collateral. Derivative 

contracts executed in over-the-counter markets include bilateral 
contractual arrangements that are not cleared through a central 

clearing organization but are typically subject to master netting 

arrangements. The percentage of our bilateral derivative 

transactions outstanding at period end in such markets, based 

on gross fair value, is provided within the following table. Other 

derivative contracts executed in over-the-counter or exchange-
traded markets are settled through a central clearing 

organization and are excluded from this percentage. In addition 

to the netting amounts included in the table, we also have 

balance sheet netting related to resale and repurchase 

agreements that are disclosed within Note 14. 
$ % $ $ % $$ % $ $ % $ ------- --------(in millions)
 Gross amounts 
 recognized 
Gross amounts 
offset in 
consolidated 
balance 
sheet 
(1) 
Net amounts in 
consolidated 
balance  
sheet 
(2) 
 Gross amounts 
not offset in 
consolidated 
balance sheet 
(Disclosure-only 
netting) 
(3) 
Net  
amounts 
Percent
exchanged in 
over-the-counter  
market (4) 
December 31, 2013 

Derivative assets 
Interest rate contracts 
 55,846 
 (48,271)
 7,575 
 (1,101)
 6,474 
 65 Commodity contracts
 2,673 
 (659)
 2,014 
 (72)
 1,942 
52 Equity contracts
 7,824 
 (3,254)
 4,570 
 (239)
 4,331 
81 Foreign exchange contracts
 4,843 
 (3,567)
 1,276 
 (9)
 1,267 
100 Credit contracts-protection sold
 354  (302)
 52 52 92 Credit contracts-protection purchased
 1,147
 (841)
 306  (33)
 273 100 Other contracts
 13 13 13 100 Total derivative assets 
 72,700 
 (56,894)
 15,806 
 (1,454)
 14,352 
Derivative liabilities 
Interest rate contracts 
 56,538 
 (53,902)
 2,636 
 (482)
 2,154 
 66 Commodity contracts
 2,603 
 (952)
 1,651 
 (11)
 1,640 
73 Equity contracts
 7,794 
 (3,502)
 4,292 
 (124)
 4,168 
94 Foreign exchange contracts
 4,508 
 (3,652)
 856 856 100 Credit contracts-protection sold
 1,532
 (1,432)
 100 100 100 Credit contracts-protection purchased
 368  (299)
 69 69 89 Other contracts
 16
16 16 100 Total derivative liabilities 
 73,359 
 (63,739)
 9,620 
 (617)
 9,003 
December 31, 2012 

Derivative assets 
Interest rate contracts 
71,351 (53,708)
 17,643 (2,692)
 14,951 94 Commodity contracts 
3,456 (1,080) 
2,376 (27) 
2,349 48 Equity contracts 
3,783 (2,428) 
1,355 1,355 89 Foreign exchange contracts
 5,524 (3,449)
 2,075 (105)
 1,970 100 Credit contracts-protection sold 
315 (296) 
19 (4) 
15 100 Credit contracts-protection purchased 
1,495 (1,147) 
348 (56) 
292 100 Total derivative assets 
85,924 (62,108)
 23,816 (2,884)
 20,932 Derivative liabilities 
Interest rate contracts 
68,695 (62,559)
 6,136 (287)
 5,849 92 Commodity contracts 
3,590 (1,394) 
2,196 2,196 79 Equity contracts 
4,164 (2,618) 
1,546 1,546 95 Foreign exchange contracts
 3,579 (1,804)
 1,775 (55)
 1,720 100 Credit contracts-protection sold 
2,623 (2,450) 
173 173 100 Credit contracts-protection purchased 
329 (291) 
38 38 100 Other contracts
 78 78 78 100 Total derivative liabilities 
83,058 (71,116) 
11,942 (342) 
11,600                   
                 
           
          
     
      
          
          
          
              
      
      
                                                                                    
              
                                                                                         
                
        
        
  
  
   
         
   
    
   
         
   
     
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
        
         
      
    
    
  
  
         
              
    
  
  
   
         
   
     
   
         
   
     
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
      
    
   
      
    
    
  
   
        
    
     
   
    
        
            
           
     
         
                
  (1) Represents amounts with counterparties subject to enforceable master netting arrangements that have been offset in the consolid
ated balance sheet, including related cash 
collateral and portfolio level counterparty valuation adjustments. Counterparty valuation adjustments were $236 million and $35
2 million related to derivative assets and 
$67 million and $68 million related to derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Cash collateral t
otaled $4.3 billion and $11.3 billion, netted 
ag
ainst derivative assets and liabilities, res
pectivel
y, at December 31, 2013, and $5.0 billion and $14.5 billion, res
pectivel
y, at December 31, 2012. 
(2) Net derivative assets of $14.4 billion and $18.3 billion are classified in Trading assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, res
pectively. $1.4 billion and $5.5 billion are 
classified in Other assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net derivative lia
bilities are classified in Accrued expenses and 
other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. 
(3) Represents non-cash collateral pledged and received against derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty that a
re subject to enforceable master netting 
arrangements. U.S. GAAP does not permit netting of such non-cash collateral balances in the consolidated balance sheet but requ
ires disclosure of these amounts. 
(4) Represents derivatives executed in over-the-counter markets not settled through a central clearing organization. Over-the-count
er percentages are calculated based on Gross 
amounts recognized as of the respective balance sheet date. The remaining percentage represents derivatives settled through a c
entral clearing organization, which are 
executed in either over-the-counter or exchange-traded markets. 
                  
  
   
                 
    
           
     
   
          
                  
    
     
          
        
                  
            
                            
        
            
   
               
    
    
    
   
    
      
  
     
    
   
          
   
   
               
    
     
   
  
   
  
   
      
     
       
    Note 16: Derivatives 
(continued) 
Fair Value Hedges 
We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed-rate 
long-term debt to floating rates to hedge our exposure to interest 

rate risk. We also enter into cross-currency swaps, cross-
currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge our 

exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk 

associated with the issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated 

long-term debt. In addition, we use interest rate swaps, cross-

currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward 

contracts to hedge against chan
ges in fair value of certain 
investments in available-for-sale debt securities due to changes 

in interest rates, foreign currency rates, or both. We also use 

interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in fair value for 

certain mortgages held for sale. The entire derivative gain or loss 

is included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness for all fair 

value hedge relationships, except for those involving foreign-

currency denominated available-for-sale securities and long
-
term debt hedged with foreign currency forward derivatives for 
which the time value component of the derivative gain or loss 

related to the changes in the difference between the spot and 

forward price is excluded from the assessment of hedge 

effectiveness. 
We use statistical regression analysis to assess hedge 
effectiveness, both at inception of the hedging relationship and 

on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing 

the periodic change in fair value of the hedging instrument 

against the periodic changes in fair value of the asset or liability 

being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The 

assessment includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures 

of the regression results used to validate the conclusion of high 

effectiveness. 
The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized in 
the income statement related to de
rivatives in fair value hedging 
relationships.
 - -$ $ $ $$ $  Interest 
rate cont
racts hedging: 
 Foreign exchange 
contracts hedging: 
(in millions) 
Available-  
for-sale 
securities 
Mortgages  
held 
for sale 
Long-
term 
debt 
Available- 
for-sale 
securities 
Long-
term 
debt  
Total net 
gains  
(losses) 
on fair 
value  
hedges  
Year ended December 31, 2013 
Net interest income (expense) recognized on derivatives 
 (584)
 (11)
 1,632 
 (8)
 280  1,309 
Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income 
Recognized on derivatives
 1,889 
47  (3,767)
 (49)
 (847)
 (2,727) 
Recognized on hedged item
 (1,874)
 (57)
 3,521 
49 722  2,361 
Net recognized on fair value hedges (ineffective portion)
 (1) 
15  (10)
 (246)
 (125)
 (366) 
Year ended December 31, 2012 
Net interest income (expense) recognized on derivatives 
 (457)
 (4)
 1,685 (5)
 248 1,467 Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income 
Recognized on derivatives
 (22)
 (15)
 (179)
 39 567 390 Recognized on hedged item
 17 6 233  (3)
 (610)
 (357) 
Net recognized on fair value hedges (ineffective portion)
 (1) 
 (5)
 (9)
 54
 36
 (43)
 33 
Year ended December 31, 2011 
Net interest income (expense) recognized on derivatives 
 (451)
1,659 (11)
 376 1,573 Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income 
Recognized on derivatives
 (1,298)
 (21)
 2,796 168 512 2,157 Recognized on hedged item
 1,232 17  (2,616)
 (186)
 (445)
 (1,998) 
Net recognized on fair value hedges (ineffective portion)
 (1) 
 (66)
 (4)
 180  (18)
 67 159 (1) Included $(5) million, $(9) million and $53 million, respectively, for years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 of the tim
e value component recognized as net 
interest income (expense) on forward derivatives hedging foreign currency available-for-sale securities and long-term debt that
 were excluded from the assessment of hedge 
effectiveness. 
            
      
           
                  
           
   
           
    
                                         Cash Flow Hedges 
We hedge floating-rate debt against future interest rate increases 
by using interest rate swaps, caps, floors and futures to limit 

variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark 

interest rate. We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge 

the variability in interest payments received on certain floating-

rate commercial loans, due to ch
anges in the benchmark interest 
rate. Gains and losses on derivatives that are reclassified from 

OCI to interest income, interest expense, noninterest income 

and noninterest expense in the current period are included in 

the line item in which the hedged item™s effect on earnings is 

recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these derivatives are 

included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. We assess 

hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, both at inception 

of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The 

regression analysis involves regressing the periodic changes in 

cash flows of the hedging instrument against the periodic 
changes in cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged 

due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes an 

evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results 

used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness. 
Based upon current interest rates, we estimate that 
$212 million (pre tax) of deferred net gains on derivatives in OCI 

at December 31, 2013, will be reclassified into net interest 

income during the next twelve months. Future changes to 

interest rates may significantly change actual amounts 

reclassified to earnings. We are hedging our exposure to the 

variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions for 

a maximum of 7 years for both hedges of floating-rate debt and 
floating-rate commercial loans. 
The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized 
related to derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships. 
$ Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Gains (losses) (pre tax) recognized in OCI on derivatives 
 (32)
52  190 Gains (pre tax) reclassified from cumulative OCI into net income
 (1)
 296 388 571 Gains (losses) (pre tax) recognized in noninterest income for hedge
 ineffectiveness (2)
1  (1)
 (5) 
(1) See Note 23 for detail on components of net income. 
(2) None of the change in value of the derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 
Free-Standing Derivatives 
We use free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) to hedge the 

risk of changes in the fair value of certain residential MHFS, 

certain loans held for investment, residential MSRs measured at 

fair value, derivative loan commitments and other interests held. 

The resulting gain or loss on these economic hedges is reflected 

in mortgage banking noninterest income, net gains (losses) from 

equity investments and other noninterest income. 
The derivatives used to hedge MSRs measured at fair value, 
which include swaps, swaptions, constant maturity mortgages, 

forwards, Eurodollar and Treasury futures and options 

contracts, resulted in net derivative losses of $2.9 billion in 2013 

and net derivative gains of $3.6 billion and $5.2 billion in 2012 

and 2011, respectively which are included in mortgage banking 

noninterest income. The aggregate fair value of these derivatives 

was a net liability of $531 million at December 31, 2013 and a net 

asset of $87 million at December 31, 2012. The change in fair 

value of these derivatives for each period end is due to changes 

in the underlying market indices and interest rates as well as the 

purchase and sale of derivative financial instruments throughout 

the period as part of our dynamic MSR risk management 

process. 
Interest rate lock commitments for residential mortgage 
loans that we intend to sell are considered free-standing 

derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan 

commitments, as well as substantially all residential MHFS, is 

hedged with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) such as 

swaps, forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and options, 

and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The 

commitments, free-standing derivatives and residential MHFS 
are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in 
mortgage banking noninterest income. For the fair value 

measurement of interest rate lo
ck commitments we include, at 
inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the 

expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing 

of the loan. Fair value changes subsequent to inception are based 

on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the 

exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that 

the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment 

(referred to as a fall-out factor). The value of the underlying loan 
is affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage 

of time. However, changes in investor demand can also cause 

changes in the value of the underlying loan value that cannot be 

hedged. The aggregate fair value of derivative loan commitments 

on the balance sheet was a net liability of $26 million and a net 

asset of $497 million at December 31, 2013 and 

December 31, 2012, respectively, and is included in the caption 
ﬁInterest rate contractsﬂ under ﬁCustomer accommodation, 

trading and other free-standing deri
vativesﬂ in the first table in 
this Note. 
We also enter into various derivatives primarily to provide 
derivative products to customers. To a lesser extent, we take 

positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price 

differentials between financial instruments and markets. These 

derivatives are not linked to specific assets and liabilities on the 

balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting 

hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge 

accounting. We also enter into fr
ee-standing derivatives for risk 
management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting. 

They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded 

as other noninterest income. 
$$Note 16: Derivatives 
(continued) 
Free-standing derivatives also include embedded derivatives 
that are required to be accounte
d for separately from their host 
contract. We periodically issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs 
where the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked 

to an equity, commodity or currency index, or basket of such 

indices. These notes contain explicit terms that affect some or all 

of the cash flows or the value of the note in a manner similar to a 

derivative instrument and therefore are considered to contain an 

ﬁembeddedﬂ derivative instrument. The indices on which the 

performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not 

clearly and closely related to the host debt instrument. The 
ﬁembeddedﬂ derivative is separated from the host contract and 

accounted for as a free-standing derivative. Additionally, we may 
invest in hybrid instruments that contain embedded derivatives, 

such as credit derivatives, that are not clearly and closely related 

to the host contract. In such instances, we either elect fair value 

option for the hybrid instrument or separate the embedded 

derivative from the host contract and account for the host 

contract and derivative separately. 
The following table shows the net gains recognized in the 
income statement related to derivatives not designated as 

hedging instruments. 
 --Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Net gains (losses) recognized on free-standing derivatives (economic hedges): 
Interest rate contracts 
Recognized in noninterest income: 
Mortgage
 banking (1) 
 1,412 
 (1,882)
 246 Other 
(2) 
119 2  (157) 
Equity
 contracts (3)
 (317)
 4  (5) 
Foreign exchange contracts 
(2)
 24  (53)
 70 Credit
 contracts (2)
 (6)
 (15)
 (18) 
Subtotal
 1,232 
 (1,944)
 136 Net gains (losses) recognized on customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives: 
Interest rate contracts 
Recognized in noninterest income: 
Mortgage
 banking (4)
 (561) 
7,222 3,594 Other 
(5) 
743 589 298 Commodity contracts (5)
 324  (14)
 124 Equity
 contracts (5)
 (622)
 (234)
 769 Foreign exchange contracts 
(5)
 746 501 698 Credit
 contracts (5)
 (53)
 (54)
 (200) 
Other (5)
 (5) 
Subtotal
 577 8,010 5,278 Net gains recognized related to derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
 1,809 
6,066 5,414          
                  
      
          
  
     
    
       
      
          
           
                  
          
  
        
            
      
  
       
                   
                        
      
      
   
     
   
    
  
    
        
(1) Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on the derivatives used as economic hedges of MSRs m
easured at fair value, interest rate lock 
commitments and mortgages held for sale. 
(2) Predominantly included in other noninterest income. 
(3) Predominantly included in net gains (losses) from equity investments. 
(4) Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on interest rate lock commitments. 
(5) Predominantly included in net gains from trading activities in noninterest income. 
Credit Derivatives 
We use credit derivatives primarily to assist customers with their 
risk management objectives. We ma
y also use credit derivatives 
in structured product transactions or liquidity agreements 

written to special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of 

sold credit derivatives is managed through posted collateral, 

purchased credit derivatives and similar products in order to 

achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk 

management provides an ability to recover a significant portion 

of any amounts that would be paid under the sold credit 

derivatives. We would be required to perform under the noted 
credit derivatives in the event of default by the referenced 

obligors. Events of default include events such as bankruptcy, 

capital restructuring or lack of principal and/or interest 

payment. In certain cases, other triggers may exist, such as the 

credit downgrade of the referenced obligors or the inability of 

the special purpose vehicle for wh
ich we have provided liquidity 
to obtain funding. 
The following table provides details of sold and purchased 
credit derivatives. 
-$ $ $ $ Notional amount
(i
n millions) 
Fair value 
liability 
Protection 
sold (A)  
 Protection 
 sold -
non-
investment 
grade 
Protection
purchased 
with 
identical 
underlyings (B) 
Net 
protection 
sold 
(A) - (B) 
Other 
protection 
purchased 
Range of 
maturities 
December 31, 2013 
Credit default swaps on: 
Corporate bonds 
48  10,947 
 5,237 
 6,493 
 4,454 
 5,557 
2014-2021 
Structured products
 1,091 
 1,553 
 1,245 
894 659 389 2016-2052 
Credit protection on: 
Default swap index
 3,270 
388  2,471 
799 898 2014-2018 
Commercial mortgage- 
backed securities index
344  1,106 
 1,106 
535 571 535 2049-2052 
Asset-backed securities index
 48
 55
 55
1 54
 87 
2045-2046 
Other
 1  2,570 
 2,570 
 3  2,567 
 5,451 
2014-2025 
Total credit derivatives 
 1,532 
 19,501 
 10,601 
 10,397 
 9,104 
 12,917 
December 31, 2012 
Credit default swaps on: 
Corporate bonds 
240  15,845 8,448 9,636 6,209 7,701 2013-2021 
Structured products
1,787 2,4332,039 948 1,485 393 2016-2056 
Credit protection on: 
Default swap index 
4 3,520 348 3,444 76 616 2013-2017 
Commercial mortgage-backed securities index 
531 1,249 861 790 459 524 2049-2052 
Asset-backed securities index 
57 
64 
64
6 58 92 2037-2046 
Other4 3,344 3,344 106 3,238 4,655 2013-2056 
Total credit derivatives 
2,623 26,45515,10414,93011,52513,981 Protection sold represents the estimated maximum exposure 
to loss that would be incurred 
under an assumed hypothetical 
circumstance, where the value of our interests and any 
associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration 

of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. We believe this 

hypothetical circumstance to be an extremely remote possibility 

and accordingly, this required disc
losure is not an indication of 
expected loss. The amounts under non-investment grade 

represent the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on 

which we have a higher risk of being required to perform under 

the terms of the credit derivative and are a function of the 

underlying assets. 
We consider the risk of performance to be high if the 
underlying assets under the credit derivative have an external 

rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit 

default grade that is equivalent thereto. We believe the net 

protection sold, which is representative of the net notional 

amount of protection sold and purchased with identical 

underlyings, in combination with 
other protection purchased, is 
more representative of our exposure to loss than either non-

investment grade or protection sold. Other protection purchased 

represents additional protection, which may offset the exposure 

to loss for protection sold, that was not purchased with an 

identical underlying of the protection sold. 
Note 16: Derivatives 
(continued) 
Credit-Risk Contingent Features 
Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if 
the credit rating of our debt were to be downgraded by certain 

major credit rating agencies, the counterparty could demand 

additional collateral or require termination or replacement of 

derivative instruments in a net liability position. The aggregate 

fair value of all derivative instruments with such credit-risk
-
related contingent features that are in a net liability position was 

$14.3 billion at December 31, 2013, and $16.2 billion at 

December 31, 2012, respectively, for which we posted $12.2 

billion and $14.3 billion, respectively, in collateral in the normal 

course of business. If the credit rating of our debt had been 

downgraded below investment grade, which is the credit-risk
-related contingent feature that if triggered requires the 

maximum amount of collateral to be posted, on December 31, 

2013, or December 31, 2012, we would have been required to 

post additional collateral of $2.5 billion or $1.9 billion, 

respectively, or potentially settle 
the contract in an amount equal 

to its fair value. 
Counterparty Credit Risk 
By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk 

if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as 

expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty 

credit risk is equal to the amount
 reported as a derivative asset 
on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset 

are derivative contracts in a ga
in position, and to the extent 
subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net 

of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty and 

cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk 

through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, 

executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, 

where appropriate. To the extent the master netting 

arrangements and other criteria meet the applicable 

requirements, including determining the legal enforceability of 

the arrangement, it is our policy to present derivative balances 

and related cash collateral amounts net on the balance sheet. We 

incorporate credit valuation adjustments (CVA) to reflect 

counterparty credit risk in determining the fair value of our 

derivatives. Such adjustments, which consider the effects of 

enforceable master netting agreements and collateral 

arrangements, reflect market-based views of the credit quality of 
each counterparty. Our CVA calculation is determined based on 

observed credit spreads in the credit default swap market and 

indices indicative of the credit quality of the counterparties to 

our derivatives. 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments 
to certain assets and liabilities and to determine fair value 

disclosures. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a 

recurring basis are presented in the recurring table in this Note. 

From time to time, we may be re
quired to record at fair value 
other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain residential 

and commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment 

and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value 

adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or
-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. 
Following are discussion of the fair value hierarchy and the 
valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities recorded 

at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis and for 

estimating fair value for financial instruments not recorded at 

fair value. 
Fair Value Hierarchy 
We group our assets and liabilities measured at fair value in 

three levels based on the markets in which the assets and 

liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used 

to determine fair value. These levels are: 

Level 1 Œ Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical 

instruments traded in active markets. 
Level 2 Œ Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar 

instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or 

similar instruments in markets that are not active, and 

model-based valuation techniques for which all significant 

assumptions are observable in the market.  
Level 3 Œ Valuation is generated from techniques that use 

significant assumptions not observable in the market. These 

unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of assumptions 

that market participants would use in pricing the asset or 

liability. Valuation techniques 
include use of option pricing 
models, discounted cash flow models and similar 

techniques. In the determination of the classification of financial 
instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, we 

consider all available information, including observable market 

data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our 

understanding of the valuation te
chniques and significant inputs 

used. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each 

instrument or instrument category, we make judgments 

regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the 

instruments' fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 

inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as 

Level 3. 
Assets 
SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS 
Short-term financial assets 
include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and 

securities purchased under resale agreements and due from 

customers on acceptances. These assets are carried at historical 

cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value 

because of the relatively short time between the origination of 

the instrument and its expected realization. 
TRADING ASSETS (EXCLUDING DERIVATIVES) AND 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES  
Trading assets and available-for-
sale securities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. 

Other investment securities classified as held-to-maturity are 
subject to impairment and fair value measurement in the event 

fair value declines be
low amortized cost and we do not expect to 
recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. Fair 

value measurement is based upon various sources of market 

pricing. We use quoted prices in active markets, where available, 

and classify such instruments within Level 1 of the fair value 

hierarchy. Examples include exchange-traded equity securities 

and some highly liquid government securities, such as U.S. 

Treasuries. When instruments are traded in secondary markets 

and quoted market prices do not exist for such securities, we 

generally rely on internal valuation techniques or on prices 

obtained from third-party pr
icing services or brokers 
(collectively, vendors) or combination thereof, and accordingly, 

we classify these instruments as Level 2 or 3. 
Trading securities are mostly valued using internal trader 
prices that are subject to price verification procedures performed 

by separate internal personnel. The majority of fair values 

derived using internal valuation techniques are verified against 

multiple pricing sources, including prices obtained from third-

party vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and 

often apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is 

observable. We review pricing methodologies provided by the 

vendors in order to determine if observable market information 

is being used versus unobservable inputs. When evaluating the 

appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with 

vendor prices, considerations include the range and quality of 

vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the 

reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing financial 

instruments involves judgments acquired from knowledge of a 

particular market. If a trader asserts that a vendor price is not 

reflective of market value, justification for using the trader price, 

including recent sales activity where possible, must be provided 

to and approved by the approp
riate levels of management. 
Similarly, while investment securities traded in secondary 
markets are typically valued using unadjusted vendor prices or 

vendor prices adjusted by weighting them with internal 

discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, 

if deemed inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge 

of a particular market, can be adjusted. Securities measured with 

these internal valuation techniques are generally classified as 

Level 2 of the hierarchy and often involve using quoted market 

prices for similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash 

flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market 

where available or a combination of multiple valuation 

techniques. Examples include certain residential and 

commercial MBS, municipal bonds, U.S. government and agency 

MBS, and corporate debt securities. 
Security fair value measuremen
ts using significant inputs 
that are unobservable in the market due to limited activity or a 

less liquid market are classified as Level 3 in the fair value 

hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using 

internal models or a combination of multiple valuation 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
techniques, such as weighting of internal models and vendor or 
broker pricing, where the unobservable inputs are significant to 

the overall fair value measurement. Securities classified as Level 

3 include certain residential and commercial MBS, other asset-

backed securities, CDOs and certain CLOs, and certain residual 

and retained interests in residential mortgage loan 

securitizations. We value CDOs using the prices of similar 

instruments, the pricing of completed or pending third party 

transactions or the pricing of the underlying collateral within the 

CDO. Where vendor or broker prices are not readily available, 

we use management's best estimate. 
MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS) 
We carry substantially 
all of our residential MHFS portfolio at fair value. Fair value is 

based on quoted market prices, where available, or the prices for 

other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. As 

necessary, these prices are adjusted for typical securitization 

activities, including servicing value, portfolio composition, 

market conditions and liquidity. Most of our MHFS are classified 

as Level 2. For the portion where market pricing data is not 

available, we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate fair 

value and, accordingly, classify as Level 3. 
LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS) 
LHFS are carried at the lower 
of cost or market value, or at fair value. The fair value of LHFS is 

based on what secondary markets are currently offering for loans 

with similar characteristics. As such, we classify those loans 

subjected to nonrecurring fair value adjustments as Level 2. 
LOANS For information on how we report the carrying value of 
loans, including PCI loans, see Note 1. Although most loans are 

not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, reverse mortgages 

are recorded at fair value on a re
curring basis. In addition, we 
record nonrecurring fair value adjustments to loans to reflect 

partial write-downs that are based on the observable market 

price of the loan or current appraised value of the collateral. 
We provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for loans 
that are not recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring 

basis. Those estimates differentiate loans based on their 

financial characteristics, such as product classification, loan 

category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Prepayment 

and credit loss estimates are evaluated by product and loan rate. 
The fair value of commercial loans is calculated by 
discounting contractual cash flow
s, adjusted for credit loss 
estimates, using discount rates that are appropriate for loans 

with similar characteristics and remaining maturity. 

For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages, we 

calculate fair value by discounting contractual cash flows, 

adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using 

discount rates based on current 
industry pricing (where readily 
available) or our own estimate of an appropriate discount rate 

for loans of similar size, type, remaining maturity and repricing 

characteristics. 
The carrying value of credit card loans, which is adjusted for 
estimates of credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance 

sheet date, is reported as a reasonable estimate of fair value. For 

all other consumer loans, the fair value is generally calculated by 

discounting the contractual cash fl
ows, adjusted for prepayment 
and credit loss estimates, based on the current rates we offer for 

loans with similar characteristics. 
Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit generate ongoing fees at our current 

pricing levels, which are recognized over the term of the 

commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of the 

counterparty to a commitment has declined, we record an 

allowance. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these 

instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related 

allowance. Certain letters of credit that are hedged with 

derivative instruments are carried at fair value in trading assets 

or liabilities. For those letters of credit, fair value is calculated 

based on readily quotable credit default spreads using a market 

risk credit default swap model. 
DERIVATIVES 
Quoted market prices are available and used for 
our exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate 

futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1. 

However, substantially all of our derivatives are traded in over-

the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted market prices are not 
always readily available. Therefore we value most OTC 

derivatives using internal valuation techniques. Valuation 

techniques and inputs to internally-developed models depend on 

the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or 

index upon which the derivative's value is based. Key inputs can 

include yield curves, credit curves, foreign-exchange rates, 
prepayment rates, volatility measurements and correlation of 

such inputs. Where model inputs can be observed in a liquid 

market and the model does not require significant judgment, 

such derivatives are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair 

value hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 2 

include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, 

commodity swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. 

When instruments are traded in less liquid markets and 

significant inputs are unobservable, such derivatives are 

classified as Level 3. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 

include complex and highly structured derivatives, certain credit 

default swaps, interest rate lock commitments written for our 

residential mortgage loans that we
 intend to sell and long dated 
equity options where volatility is not observable. Additionally, 

significant judgments are required when classifying financial 

instruments within the fair value hierarchy, particularly between 

Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain derivatives. 
MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS (MSRs) AND CERTAIN 
OTHER INTERESTS HELD IN SECURITIZATIONS  
MSRs and 
certain other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only 
strips) do not trade in an active market with readily observable 
prices. Accordingly, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a 

valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated 

future net servicing income cash flows. The model incorporates 

assumptions that market participants use in estimating future 

net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of 

prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount 

rates, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and 

foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual 

servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Commercial 

MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market value, and therefore 
can be subject to fair value measurements on a nonrecurring 
basis. Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to 

the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as well as 

changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For other interests 

held in securitizations (such as interest-only strips), we use a 
valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated 

future cash flows. The model incorporates our own estimates of 

assumptions market participants use in determining the fair 

value, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rates, 

defaults and contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are 

recorded as trading assets. Our valuation approach is validated 

by our internal valuation model validation group. Fair value 

measurements of our MSRs and interest-only strips use 

significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we classify 

them as Level 3. 
FORECLOSED ASSETS 
Foreclosed assets are carried at net 
realizable value, which represents fair value less costs to sell. 

Fair value is generally based upon independent market prices or 

appraised values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify 

foreclosed assets as Level 2. 
NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS 
We have elected 
the fair value option for certain nonmarketable equity 

investments. The remaining nonm
arketable equity investments 
are generally recorded under the cost or equity method of 

accounting. There are generally restrictions on the sale and/or 

liquidation of these investments, including federal bank stock. 

Federal bank stock carrying value approximates fair value. We 

use facts and circumstances available to estimate the fair value of 

our nonmarketable equity investments. We typically consider 

our access to and need for capital (including recent or projected 

financing activity), qualitative asse
ssments of the viability of the 
investee, evaluation of the financial statements of the investee 

and prospects for its future. Publi
c equity investments are valued 
using quoted market prices and discounts are only applied when 

there are trading restrictions that are an attribute of the 

investment. We estimate the fair value of investments in non
-
public securities using metrics such as security prices of 

comparable public companies, acquisition prices for similar 

companies and original investment purchase price multiples, 

while also incorporating a portfolio company's financial 

performance and specific factors. For investments in private 

equity funds, we use the NAV provided by the fund sponsor as an 

appropriate measure of fair value. In some cases, such NAVs 

require adjustments based on certain unobservable inputs. 
Liabilities 
DEPOSIT LIABILITIES 
Deposit liabilities are carried at 
historical cost. The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, 

such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing 
checking, and market rate and other savings, is equal to the 

amount payable on demand at the measurement date. The fair 

value of other time deposits is calculated based on the 

discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount rate is 

estimated using the rates currently offered for like wholesale 

deposits with similar remaining maturities. 
SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 
Short-term financial 
liabilities are carried at historical cost and include federal funds 

purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, 

commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. The 

carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of 

the relatively short time between the origination of the 

instrument and its expected realization. 
OTHER LIABILITIES 
Other liabilities recorded at fair value on 
a recurring basis, excluding derivative liabilities (see the 

ﬁDerivativesﬂ section for derivative liabilities), includes primarily 

short sale liabilities. Short sale liabilities are predominantly 

classified as either Level 1 or Level 2, generally dependent upon 

whether the underlying securities have readily obtainable quoted 

prices in active exchange markets. 
LONG-TERM DEBT 
Long-term debt is generally carried at 
amortized cost. For disclosure, we
 are required to estimate the 
fair value of long-term debt. Generally, the discounted cash flow 
method is used to estimate the fair value of our long-term debt. 
Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates currently 

offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities and, as 

such, these discount rates include our current spread levels.  
Level 3 Asset and Liability Valuation Processes 
We generally determine fair value of our Level 3 assets and 

liabilities by using internally developed models and, to a lesser 

extent, prices obtained from th
ird-party pricing services or 
brokers (collectively, vendors). Our valuation processes vary 

depending on which approach is utilized. 
INTERNAL MODEL VALUATIONS 
Our internally developed 
models primarily consist of discounted cash flow techniques. Use 

of such techniques requires determining relevant inputs, some of 

which are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are generally 

derived from historic performance of similar assets or 

determined from previous market trades in similar instruments. 

These unobservable inputs usually consist of discount rates, 

default rates, loss severity upon default, volatilities, correlations 

and prepayment rates, which are inherent within our Level 3 

instruments. Such inputs can be correlated to similar portfolios 

with known historic experience or recent trades where particular 

unobservable inputs may be implied; but due to the nature of 

various inputs being reflected within a particular trade, the value 

of each input is considered unobservable. We attempt to 

correlate each unobservable input to historic experience and 

other third party data where available. 
Internal valuation models are subject to review prescribed 
within our model risk management policies and procedures, 

which include model validation. The purpose of model validation 

includes ensuring the model is appropriate for its intended use 

and the appropriate controls exist to help mitigate risk of invalid 

valuations. Model validation assesses the adequacy and 

appropriateness of the model, including reviewing its key 

components, such as inputs, processing components, logic or 

theory, output results and supporting model documentation. 

Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable 

model inputs are appropriate given observable market 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
transactions or other market data within the same or similar 
asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are appropriate 

given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with 

their intended purpose. 
We have ongoing monitoring procedures in place for our 
Level 3 assets and liabilities that use such internal valuation 

models. These procedures, which are designed to provide 

reasonable assurance that models continue to perform as 

expected after approved, include: 

Ł ongoing analysis and benchmarking to market transactions 

and other independent market data (including pricing 

vendors, if available); 
Łback-testing of modeled fair values to actual realized 
transactions; and 
Łreview of modeled valuation results against expectations, 

including review of significant or unusual value fluctuations. 
We update model inputs and me
thodologies periodically to 
reflect these monitoring procedures. Additionally, procedures 

and controls are in place to ensure existing models are subject to 

periodic reviews, and we perform full model revalidations as 

necessary. 
All internal valuation models are subject to ongoing review 
by business-unit-level management, and all models are subject 

to additional oversight by a corporate-level risk management 
department. Corporate oversight responsibilities include 

evaluating adequacy of business unit risk management 

programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies 

and standards and reporting the results of these activities to 

management and our Corporate Model Risk Committee (CMoR). 

The CMoR consists of senior executive management and reports 

on top model risk issues to the Company™s Risk Committee of the 

Board. 
VENDOR-DEVELOPED VALUATIONS  
In certain limited circumstances we obtain pricing from third party vendors for the 

value of our Level 3 assets or liabilities. We have processes in 

place to approve such vendors to ensure information obtained 

and valuation techniques used are appropriate. Once these 

vendors are approved to prov
ide pricing information, we 
monitor and review the results to ensure the fair values are 

reasonable and in line with market experience in similar asset 

classes. While the input amounts used by the pricing vendor in 

determining fair value are not provided, and therefore 

unavailable for our review, we do perform one or more of the 

following procedures to validate the prices received: 

Łcomparison to other pricing vendors (if available); 
Łvariance analysis of prices; 
Łcorroboration of pricing by reference to other independent 

market data, such as market transactions and relevant 

benchmark indices; 
Łreview of pricing by Company personnel familiar with 

market liquidity and other market-related conditions; and 
Łinvestigation of prices on a specific instrument-by
-
instrument basis. 
Fair Value Measurements from Brokers or Third 
Party Pricing Services 
For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair value 
measurements from brokers or third party pricing services and 

record the unadjusted fair value in our financial statements. The 

detail by level is shown in the table below. Fair value 

measurements obtained from brokers or third party pricing 

services that we have adjusted to determine the fair value 

recorded in our financial statements are not included in the 

following table. 
----- ---------------- --- - -- - -- -- -------------------- ----- --- - ---$ $ Brokers 
Th
ird party pricing services  
(in millions) 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
December 31, 2013 
Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
122 1  1,804 
652 3 Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
557  5,723 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 39,257 
63 Mortgage-backed securities
621  148,074 
180 Other debt securities
 (1)
 1,537 
722  44,681 
746 Total debt securities
 2,158 
722 557  237,735 
989 Total marketable equity securities
630 Total available-for-sale securities
 2,158 
722 557  238,365 
989 Derivatives (trading and other assets
)5 417  3 Derivatives (liabilities)
 (12)
 (418)
Other liabilities
 (115)
 (36)
December 31, 2012 
Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
406  8  1,3141,016Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 915  6,231
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
35,036 
Mortgage-backed securities
138 4 121,703292 Other debt securities
 (1)
1,51612,465 28,314149 Total debt securities
1,65412,469915 191,284441 Total marketable equity securities
 3 29  774 Total available-for-sale securities
1,657 12,469 944 192,058 441 Derivatives (trading and other assets)
8 602 Derivatives (liabilities) 
 (26)
 (634) 
Other liabilities
 (121)
 (104) 
(1)
 Includes cor
porate debt securities, collateralized loan and other debt obli
gations, asset-backed securities, and other debt securities. 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
(1) Includes collateralized debt obligations of $2 million. 
(2) Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2013 include $(29) million
 in net unrealized losses on trading 
securities held at December 31, 2013. 
(3) Balances consist of securities that are mostly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or internal
 credit grades categorized as investment grade 
if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity. 
(4) Includes collateralized debt obligations of $693 million. 
(5) Perpetual preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information. 
(6) Represents balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances and related cash collateral. See Note 16 for additi
onal information. 
(7) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivative
s included in trading assets and trading 
liabilities, respectively. 
(continued on following page) 
-- --- - - --- -------- --- ---- --- --- - -- ------ - - ---------- - ---------------- ---- --- -- - - - ---- ---- -- - -- - -- -- - --- - -- -Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a 
Recurring Basis 
The following two tables present the balances of assets and 
liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. 
$ $ $ $ (in millions) 
Leve
l 1 Level 2 
Level 3 
Netting 
Total 
December 31, 2013 
Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
 8,301 
 3,669 
 11,970 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 2,043 
39  2,082 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
(1)212 541 753 Corporate debt securities
 7,052 
53  7,105 
Mortgage-backed securities
 14,608 
1  14,609 
Asset-backed securities
487 122 609 Equity securities
 5,908 
87 13  6,008 
Total tradin
g securities
(2)
 14,209 
 28,158 
769  43,136 
Other trading assets
 2,694 
 2,487 
54  5,235 
Total trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 16,903 
 30,645 
823  48,371 
Securities of U.S. Treasur
y and federal a
gencies
 557  5,723 
 6,280 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 39,322 
 3,214 
(3)  42,536 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 117,591 
 117,591 
Residential 
 12,389 
64  12,453 
Commercial
 18,609 
138  18,747 
Total mortgage-backed securities
 148,589 
202  148,791 
Corporate debt securities
 113  20,833 
281  21,227 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
(4) 18,739 
 1,420 
(3)  20,159 
Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
21 492 (3) 513 Home e
quit
y loans 
843 843 Other asset-backed securities
 6,577 
 1,657 
(3)  8,234 
Total asset-backed securities
 7,441 
 2,149 
 9,590 
Other debt securities
 39
 39 
Total debt securities
 670  240,686 
 7,266 
 248,622 
Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 (5) 508 628 729 (3)  1,865 
Other marketable equity securities
 1,511 
9  1,520 
Total marketable equity securities
 2,019 
637 729  3,38
5 Total available-for-sale securities
 2,689 
 241,32
3  7,995 
 252,007 
Mort
gag
es held for sale
 11,505 
 2,374 
 13,879 
Loans held for sale
11 Loans 
272  5,723 
 5,995 
Mortgage servicing rights (residential)
 15,580 
 15,580 
Derivative assets: 
Interest rate contracts
 36  55,466 
344  55,846 
Commodity contracts 
 2,667 
6  2,673 
Equity contracts 
 1,522 
 4,221 
 2,081 
 7,824 
Forei
gn exchan
ge contracts
 44  4,789 
10  4,843 
Credit contracts 
782 719  1,501 
Other derivative contracts 
 13
 13 
Netting 
 (56,894) 
(6) (56,894) 
Total derivative assets
 (7) 1,602 
 67,925 
 3,173 
 (56,894)
 15,806 
Other assets
 1,503 
 1,503 
Total assets recorded at fair value 
 21,194 
 351,671 
 37,171 
 (56,894)
 353,142 
Derivative liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts 
 (26)
 (56,128)
 (384)
 (56,538) 
Commodity contracts 
 (2,587)
 (16)
 (2,603) 
Equity contracts 
 (449)
 (5,218)
 (2,127)
 (7,794) 
Forei
gn exchan
ge contracts 
(75) (4,432
) (1)
(4,508
) Credit contracts 
 (806)
 (1,094)
 (1,900) 
Other derivative contracts 
 (16)
 (16) 
Netting 
 63,739 
(6) 63,739 
Total derivative liabilities
 (7) (550)
 (69,171)
 (3,638)
 63,739 
 (9,620) 
Short sale liabilities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 (4,311)
 (2,063)
 (6,374) 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
(24)(24) Corporate debt securities
 (4,683)
 (4,683) 
Equity securities
 (1,788)
 (48)
 (1,836)
Other securities
 (95)
 (95)
Total short sale liabilities
 (6,
099) (6,913)
 (13,012)
Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
 (39)
 (39)
Total liabilities recorded at fair value 
 (6,649)
 (76,084)
 (3,
677) 63,739 
 (22,671)
(continued from previous page) 
(in millions)
 Level 1 
Level 2  Level 3  
Netting 
Total  
-- -- --- -- -- -------- -- - ------ --- --- -- -- -- -- --- ----- - - ------
-- --- --- -- ----- ---- -- -
 - - - - -- - --- -- --- - -- -- - -- -- - -$ $ $ $ December 31, 2012 
Tra
ding assets (excluding derivatives) 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
 5,104 
 3,774 
 8,878 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 1,587 
46  1,633 
Collateralized loan and other debt obli
gations 
(1)
742 742 Corporate debt securities
 6,664 
52  6,716 
Mortgage-backed securities
 13,380
 6  13,386 
Asset-backed securities
722 138 860 Equity securities
 3,481 
356 3  3,840 
Total trading securities
(2) 8,585 
 26,483
 987  36,055 
Other trading assets
 2,150 
887 76  3,113 
Total trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 10,735
 27,370
 1,063 
 39,168 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 915  6,231 
 7,146 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 35,045
 3,631 
(3) 
 38,676 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 97,285
 97,285 
Residential 
 15,837
 94  15,931 
Commercial 
 19,765
 203  19,968 
Total mortgage-backed securities
 132,887
 297  133,184 
Cor
porate debt securities
 125  20,934
 274  21,333 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 (4)
 13,188 
(3)   13,188 
Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
7  5,921 
(3)   5,928 
Home e
quit
y loans
867 51 918 Other asset-backed securities
 7,828 
 3,283 
(3)   11,111 
Total asset-backed securities
 8,702 
 9,255 
 17,957 
Other debt securities
930 930 Total debt securities
 1,040 
 204,729
 26,645
 232,414 
Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 (5)
 629 753  794 (3)   2,176 
Other marketable equity securities
 554 55 609 Total marketable equity securities
 1,183 
808 794  2,785 
Total available-for-sale securities
 2,223 
 205,537
 27,439
 235,199 
Mortgages held for sale
 39,055
 3,250  42,305 
Loan
s held for sale
6 6 Loans 
185  6,021 
 6,206 
Mortgage servicing rights (residential)
 11,538
 11,538 
Derivative assets: 
Interest rate contracts
 16  70,277
 1,058 
 71,351 
Commodity contracts 
 3,386
 70
 3,456 
Equity contracts
 432  2,747 
604  3,783 
Forei
gn exchan
ge contracts
 19  5,481 
24  5,524 
Credit contracts
 1,160 
650  1,810 
Other derivative contracts
Nettin
g(62,108
) (6) 
(62,108
) Total derivative assets
 (7) 467  83,051
 2,406 
 (62,108)
 23,816 
Other assets
 136 123 162 421 Total assets recorded at fair value 
 13,561
 355,327
 51,879
 (62,108)
 358,659 
Derivative liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts 
(52) (68,244
) (399)(68,695
) Commodity contracts 
 (3,541)
 (49)
 (3,590) 
Equity contracts
 (199)
 (3,239)
 (726)
 (4,164) 
Foreign exchange contracts
 (23) (3,553)
 (3) (3,579) 
Credit contracts
 (1,152)
 (1,800)
 (2,952) 
Other derivative contracts
(78)(78) Netting
71,116 
(6)  71,116 
Total derivative liabilities 
(7) 
(274) (79,729
) (3,055
) 71,116 
(11,942
) Short sale liabilities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 (4,225)
 (875)
 (5,100) 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
(9) 
(9) 
Corporate debt securities
 (3,941)
 (3,941) 
Equity securities
 (1,233)
 (35) (1,268) 
Other securities
(47)(47) Total short sale liabilities
 (5,458)
 (4,907)
 (10,365) 
Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
(34) (49)(83) Total liabilities recorded at fair value 
 (5,732)
 (84,670)
 (3,104)
 71,116
 (22,390) 
(1) Includes collateralized debt obligations of $21 million. 
(2) Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2012 include $305 million 
in net unrealized gains on trading securities 
held at December 31, 2012. 
(3) Balances consist of securities that are predominantly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or i
nternal credit grades categorized as 
investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity
. (4) In
cludes collateralized debt obligations of $644 million. 
(5) Perpetual preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information. 
(6) Represents balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances and related cash collateral. See Note 16 for additi
onal information. 
(7) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivative
s included in trading assets and trading 
liabilities, respectively. 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
Changes in Fair Value Levels 
We monitor the availability of observable market data to assess 
the appropriate classification of financial instruments within the 

fair value hierarchy and transfer between Level 1, Level 2, and 

Level 3 accordingly. Observable 
market data includes but is not 
limited to quoted prices and market transactions. Changes in 

economic conditions or market liquidity generally will drive 

changes in availability of observable market data. Changes in 
availability of observable market data, which also may result in 

changing the valuation technique used, are generally the cause of 

transfers between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3. 
Transfers into and out of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 for the 
periods presented are provided within the following table. The 

amounts reported as transfers represent the fair value as of the 

beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurred. 
 ---- --- ----- --- ------------ ------ ----------- - $  $ $  $ Transfers Between Fair Value Levels 
Leve
l 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
(1) 
(in millions) 
In 
Out In 
Out In 
Out Total 
Year ended December 31, 2013 
Trading assets (excluding derivatives)
 (2)
 (242)
 535  (56)
 52  (289)
Available-for-sale securities
 (2)
(3)
 17  12,830 
 (117)
 100  (12,830)
Mortgages held for sale
343  (336)
 336  (343)
Loans
193  (193)
Net derivative assets and liabilities
 (4)
 (142)
 13  (13)
 142 Short sale liabilities
Total transfers
17  (242)
 13,759 
 (496)
 475  (13,513)
Year ended December 31, 2012 

Trading assets (excluding derivatives)
23 16 (37)
 14  (16)
Available-for-sale securities
 (5) 
8 9,832 (68) 
60 (9,832) 
Mortgages held for sale
298 (488)
 488  (298)
Loans (6) 
41 (5,851) 
5,851 (41) 
Net derivative assets and liabilities
51 8  (8)
 (51)
Short sale liabilities 
Total transfers
31 10,238 (6,436)
 6,405 (10,238)
(1) All transfers in and out of Level 3 are disclosed within the recurring Level 3 rollforward table in this Note. 
(2) Consists of $231 million of collateralized loan obligations classified as trading assets and $12.5 billion classified as availa
ble-for-sale securities that we transferred from Level 
3 to Level 2 in 2013 as a result of increased observable market data in the valuation of such instruments. 
(3) Transfers out of available-for-sale securities classified as Level 3 exclude $6.0 billion in asset-backed securities that were 
transferred from the available-for-sale portfolio to 
held-to-maturity securities. 
(4) Consists of net derivative liabilities that were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 due to increased observable market data. A
lso includes net derivative liabilities that were 
transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 due to a decrease in observable market data. 
(5) Includes $9.4 billion of securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions that we transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 as a 
result of increased observable market data in the 
valuation of such instruments. This transfer was done in conjunction with a change in our valuation technique from an internal 
model based upon unobservable inputs to 
third party vendor pricing based upon market observable data. 
(6) Consists of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactions. We transfe
rred the loans from Level 2 to Level 3 in 
third quarter 2012 due to decreased market activity and visibility to significant trades of the same or similar products. As a 
result, we changed our valuation technique from 
an internal model based on market observable data to an internal discounted cash flow model based on unobservable inputs. 
$The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2013,
 are summarized as follows: 
 - -- - --- - ---- - -- ------ ------- - ----- ---------------------- - ---- ---- ----- -----------Total net gains 
(losses
) included in 
(in millions) 
Balance, 
 beginnin
g of period Net income 
Other 
compre-
hensive 
income 
Purchases, 
sales, 
issuances 
and 
settlements, 
net
 (1) 
Transfers 
into 
Level 3 
Transfers 
out of 
Level 3 
Balance, 
end of 
period Net unrealized 
gains (losses) 
included in 
income related 
to assets and
liabilities held 
at period end 
(2) Year ended December 31, 2013 
Tradin
g assets 
(excluding derivatives): 

Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
 46
 3 (10)
 39
Collateralized loan and other debt obli
gations
 742
 67
(37) (231) 541 (33) Corporate debt securities
 52 9  (1)
 13  (20)
 53 6 Mortgage-backed securities
 6 19 (15)
 1 1 Asset-backed securities
 138 16  (35)
 25  (22)
 122 15 Equity securities
 3 (3)
 13
 13
Total trading securities
 987 96  (77)
 51  (288)
 769  (11) 
Other trading assets
 76
 (22)
1 (1)
 54
 (8) 
Total trading assets 
(excluding derivatives)
 1,063 
74  (77)
 52  (289)
 823  (19)
(3) Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
 3,631
 11  (85)
 (182)
 53  (214)
 3,214 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Residential 
 94
 17 
(1) 
(40) (6)
 64 Commercial
 203
 (13)
 28
 (58)
 (22) 
138 (8) 
Total mortgage-backed 
securities
 297
 4 27 
(98) (28) 202 (8) 
Corporate debt securities
 274 10  (10)
 (13)
 23  (3)
 281 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
 13,188
 8 124 625  (12,525)
 1,420 
Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 5,921 
 (1)
 (34)
 (1,067)
 (4,327)
 492 Home equity loans
 51
 3 (1)
 (5)
 (48)
Other asset-backed securities
 3,283 
27 19 31 24  (1,727)
 1,657 
 (7) 
Total asset-backed securities
 9,255
 29  (16)
 (1,041)
 24  (6,102)
 2,149 
 (7)
(4) Total debt securities
 26,645 
62 40  (709)
 100  (18,872)
 7,266 
 (15)
(5) Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 794 10  (2)
 (73)
729 Other marketable equity securities
Total marketable 
equity securities
 794 10  (2)
 (73)
729 (6) Total available-for-sale 
securities
 27,439
 72
 38 
(782) 100 (18,872
) 7,995 
(15) Mortgages held for sale
 3,250 
5  (874)
 336  (343)
 2,374 
 (74)
(7) Loans
 6,021 
 (211)
106  (193)
 5,723 
 (178)
(7) Mort
gag
e servicin
g rights (residential
) (8)
 11,538 
 1,156 
 2,886 
 15,580 
 3,398 
(7) 
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts
 659 (662)
 (39)
2  (40)
 (186) 
Commodity contracts 
21  (66)
 (1)
 36  (10)
 (19) 
Eq
uit
y contracts 
(122) (151)137 (14) 104 (46) 48 Foreign exchange contracts
 21
 (15)
1 29 (8) 
Credit contracts 
 (1,150)
 (30)
805  (375)
 345 Other derivative contracts 
 (78)
 75
 (3)
Total derivative contracts
 (649)
 (783)
838  (13)
 142  (465)
 180 (9) Other assets
 162 315  1,026 
 1,503 
 (2)
(3) Short sale liabilities
(3) 
Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
 (49)
 3 7  (39)
 5 (7) (1) See next page for detail. 
(2) Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management™s estimates of fair value and 
excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
(3) Included in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(4) Level 3 transfers out include $6.0 billion in asset-backed securities that were transferred from the available-for-sale portfol
io to held-to-maturity securities. 
(5) Included in net gains (losses) from debt securities in the income statement. 
(6) Included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 
(7) Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(8) For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9. 
(9) Included in mortgage banking, trading activities, equity investments and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(continued on following page) 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
(continued from previous page) 
The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances an
d settlements related to the chan
ges in Level 3 assets and lia
bilities measured at fair value on a recurring ba
sis for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
--- ---- --- -------- - - - - - ---- - -- -- ------ -------- ----- -------- - - ----$ (in millions) 
Purchases 
Sales 
Issuances 
Settlements 
Net 
Year ended December 31, 2013 
Trading assets 
(excluding derivatives): 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
127  (136)
 (1)
 (10) 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
 1,030 
 (1,064)
 (3)
 (37) 
Corporate debt securities
 117  (117)
 (1)
 (1) 
Mort
gag
e-backed securities
 429 (420)9 Asset-backed securities
 53  (45)
 (43)
 (35) 
Equity securities
 (3)
 (3) 
Total tradin
g securities
 1,756 
(1,785
) (48) (77) Other trading assets
Total tradin
g assets 
(excluding derivatives)
 1,756 
 (1,785)
 (48)
 (77) 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
 (69)
 648  (761)
 (182) 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Residential 
 (37)
 (3) 
 (40) 
Commercial
 (1)
 (57)
 (58) 
Total mortgage-backed 
securities
 (38)
 (60)
 (98) 
Corporate debt securities
 20 
(33) (13) Collateralized loan and other debt obligations 
 1,008 
 (14)
 (369)
 625 Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 1,751
 1,047 
 (3,865)
 (1,067) 
Home equit
y loans
(5)
(5) 
Other asset-backed securities
 1,164 
 (36)
 1,116 
 (2,213)
 31 Total asset-backed securities
 2,915 
 (41)
 2,163 
 (6,078)
 (1,041) 
Total debt securities
 3,923 
 (162)
 2,831 
 (7,301)
 (709) 
Marketable equity securities: 
Per
petual 
preferred securities
(20) (53) (73) Other marketable equity securities
Total marketable 
equit
y securities
(20) (53) (73) Total available-for-sale 
securities
 3,923 
 (182)
 2,831 
 (7,354)
 (782) 
Mortgages held for sale
 286  (574)
 (586)
 (874) 
Loans 
23 452  (369)
 106 Mortgage servicing rights (residential)
 (583)
 3,469 
 2,886 
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts 
(39) (39) Commodity contracts
 (66)
 (66) 
Equity contracts 
 (148)
285 137 Foreign exchange contracts
1 1 Credit contracts
 7 (5) 
(4)
 807 805 Other derivative contracts 
Total derivative contracts
 7  (153)
 (4)
 988 838 Other assets
 1,064 
 (2)
 (36)
 1,026 
Short sale liabilities
 8 (8)
Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
 (4)
 11
 7 The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2012,
 are summarized as follows: 
Total net gains 
(losses
) included in 
(in millions) 
Balance, 
be
ginnin
g of period 
Net  
income  
Other 
compre-
hensive  
income  
Purchases,  
sales, 
issuances 
and 
settlements, 
net (1) Transfers 
into Level 3 
Transfers 
out of 
Level 3  
Balance, 
end of 
period 
Net unrealized 
gains (losses) 
included in 
income related 
to assets and 
liabilities held 
at period end 
(2) Year ended December 31, 2012 
Tradin
g assets 
(excluding derivatives): 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
$ 53 3 -(10) --46 -Collateralized loan and other debt obli
gations
 1,582 
(191) -(649) --742 (47) Corporate debt securities
 97 --(45) --52 (3) Mortgage-backed securities
 108 8 - (110)
 --6 2 Asset-backed securities
 190 48 -(98) 14 (16) 138 23 Equity securities
 4 --(1) --3 -Total trading securities
 2,034 
 (132)
 - (913)
 14 (16) 987 (25) Other trading assets
 115 (39) ----76 (19) Total trading assets 
(excluding derivatives)
 2,149 
 (171)
 - (913)
 14 (16) 1,063 
 (44)(3) Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 11,516
 10 160  1,347 
- (9,402)
 3,631 
-Mortgage-backed securities: 
Residential 
61 12 16 50 29 (74) 94 (1) 
Commercial 
232 (56) 57 (30) --203 (56) Total mortgage-backed 
securities
 293 (44) 73 20 29 (74) 297 (57) Corporate debt securities
 295 20 19 (20) 1 (41) 274 -Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 8,599 
135 514  3,940 
-- 13,188
 -Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 6,641 
3 3  (726)
 -- 5,921 
-Home equity loans
 282 15 14 (3) 29  (286)
 51 (1) Other asset-backed securities
 2,863 
(29) 148 329 1 (29) 3,283 
(6) Total asset-backed securities
 9,786 
(11) 165  (400)
 30  (315)
 9,255 
(7) Total debt securities
 30,489
 110 931  4,887 
60  (9,832)
 26,645
 (64)(4) Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 1,344 
91 (30) (611)
 --794 -Other marketable equity securities
 23 2 (16) (9) ----Total marketable 
equity securities
 1,367 
93 (46) (620)
 --794 -(5) Total available-for-sale 
securities
 31,856
 203 885  4,267 
60 (9,832
) 27,439 
(64) Mortgages held for sale
 3,410 
(42) - (308)
 488  (298)
 3,250 
 (30)(6) Loans
 23 43 -145  5,851 
(41) 6,021 
 43 (6) Mortgag
e servicin
g rights 
(residential
) (7)
 12,603 
(5,954
) - 4,889 
-- 11,538 
(2,893
)(6) 
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts
 609  7,397 - (7,349)
 -2 659 562 Commodity contracts
 -78 -(50) (8) 1 21 40 Eq
uit
y contracts 
(75) (11) -18 -(54) (122) (16) Foreign exchange contracts
 (7) 23 -5 --21 30 Credit contracts
 (1,998)
 38 -810 -- (1,150)
 41 Other derivative contracts
 (117)
 40 (1) ---(78) -Total derivative contracts
 (1,588)
 7,565 
(1) (6,566)
 (8) (51) (649)
 657 (8) Other assets
 244 (21) -(61) --162  (8)(3) Short sale liabilities
 --------(3) 
Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
 (44) (43) -38 --(49) - (6) (1) See next page for detail. 
(2) Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management™s estimates of fair value and 
excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
(3) Included in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(4) Included in net gains (losses) debt securities in the income statement. 
(5) Included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 
(6) Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(7) For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9. 
(8) Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(continued on following page) 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
(continued from previous page) 
The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances an
d settlements related to the chan
ges in Level 3 assets and lia
bilities measured at fair value on a recurring ba
sis for the year ended December 31, 2012. 
(in millions) 
Purchases  
Sales 
Issuances  
Settlements 
Net 
Year ended December 31, 2012 
Trading assets 
(excluding derivatives): 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
$ 85 (95) --(10) Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 829  (1,478)
 -- (649) 
Corporate debt securities
 192  (237)
 --(45) Mortgag
e-backed securities
 49 (159) --(110) Asset-backed securities
 116  (169)
 -(45) (98) Equity securities
 1 (2) --(1) Total tradin
g securities
 1,272 
(2,140
) -(45) (913) Other trading assets
 -----Total tradin
g assets 
(excluding derivatives)
 1,272 
 (2,140)
 -(45) (913) 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 1,847 
(37) 1,011 
 (1,474)
 1,347 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Residential 
86 (34) -(2) 50 Commercial 
39 --(69) (30) Total mortgage-backed 
securities
 125 (34) -(71) 20 Cor
porate debt securities
 26 (37) -(9) 
(20) Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 5,608 
 (185)
 - (1,483)
 3,940 
Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 3,004 
-666  (4,396)
 (726) 
Home e
quit
y loans
 -(2) 
-(1) 
(3) 
Other asset-backed securities
 2,074 
 (159)
 1,401 
 (2,987)
 329 Total asset-backed securities
 5,078 
 (161)
 2,067 
 (7,384)
 (400) 
Total debt securities
 12,684
 (454)
 3,078 
 (10,421)
 4,887 
Marketable equity securities: 
Per
petual 
preferred securities
 ---(611) (611) Other marketable equity securities
 -(8) -(1) (9) Total marketable 
eq
uit
y securities
 -(8) 
-(612) (620) Total available-for-sale 
securities
 12,684
 (462)
 3,078 
 (11,033)
 4,267 
Mortgages held for sale
 441 -- (749)
 (308) 
Loans 
2 -257  (114)
 145 Mortgage servicing rights (residential)
 - (293)
 5,182 
- 4,889 
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts
 11 --(7,360
) (7,349
) Commodity contracts 
-(2) -(48) (50) Equity contracts
 386  (375)
 1 6 18 Foreign exchange contracts 
2 (3) -6 5 Credit contracts 
(6) 
3 -813 810 Other derivative contracts
 -----Total derivative contracts
 393  (377)
 1  (6,583)
 (6,566) 
Other assets
 19 (8) -(72) (61) Short sale liabilities
 9 (9) ---Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
 (3) 11  (216)
 246 38 The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair 
value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2011 
are summarized as follows: 
Total net gains 
(losses) included in 
(in millions
) Balance, 
beginning 
of 
year 
Net  
income  
Other 
compre
-hensive  
income  
Purchases,  
sales, 
issuances 
and 
settlements, 
net (1) 
Transfers 
into Level 3 
Transfers 
out of 
Level 3  
Balance, 
end of 
yearNet unrealized 
gains (losses) 
included in net 
income related 
to assets and 
liabilities held 
 at period end 
(2) 
Year ended December 31, 2011 
Trading assets 
(excludin
g derivatives
): 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
$ 5 3 -12 51 (18) 53 -Collateralized debt obligations
 1,915 
(24) - (297)
 -(12) 1,582 
1 Corporate debt securities
 166 1 -(70) --97 (80) Mortgag
e-backed securities
 117 6 -(36) 31 (10) 108 (4) 
Asset-backed securities
 366 75 - (122)
 - (129)
 190 (2) Equity securities
 34 (3) -(28) 1 -4 72 Total tradin
g securities
 2,603 
58 -(541) 83 (169) 2,034 
(13) Other trading assets
 136 (21) -2 -(2) 115 14 Total tradin
g assets 
(excluding derivatives)
 2,739 
37 - (539)
 83  (171)
 2,149 
 1 (3) Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 4,564 
10 52  6,923 
-(33) 11,516
 9 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Residential 
20 (9) (1) (6) 121 (64) 61 (8) Commercial
 217 (44) 59 2 2 (4) 
232 (56) Total mortgage-backed 
securities
 237 (53) 58 (4) 123 (68) 293 (64) Cor
porate debt securities
 433 150  (112)
 (185)
 41 (32) 295 (3) Collateralized debt obligations
 4,778 
290  (202)
 3,725 
8 - 8,599 
-Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 6,133 
4 (27) 531 -- 6,641 
-Home e
quit
y loans
 112 (3) 
(18) 40 221 (70) 282 (25) Other asset-backed securities
 3,150 
10 13 181 107  (598)
 2,863 
(7) Total asset-backed securities
 9,395 
11 (32) 752 328  (668)
 9,786 
(32) Other debt securities
 85 --(85) ----Total debt securities
 19,492
 408  (236)
 11,126
 500  (801)
 30,489
 (90)(4) Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 2,434 
160 (7) (1,243)
 2 (2) 1,344 
(53) Other marketable equity securities
 32 -1 (10) --23 -Total marketable 
equity securities
 2,466 
160 (6) (1,253)
 2 (2) 1,367 
 (53)(5) Total available-for-sale 
securities
 21,958
 568  (242)
 9,873 
502  (803)
 31,856
 (143) 
Mortgages held for sale
 3,305 
44 - (104)
 492  (327)
 3,410 
 43 (6) Loans
 309 13 -(299) --23 -(6) 
Mortgage servicing rights (residential) (7)
 14,467
 (5,821)
 - 3,957 
-- 12,603 (3,680)
(6) Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts
 77  4,051 
- (3,414)
 (1) (104)
 609 309 Commodit
y contracts 
(1)
 2 -(9) 
(3)
 11 -1 Equity contracts
 (225)
 126 -28 (6) 2 (75) 55 Foreign exchange contracts
 9 (8) -(6) 1 (3) (7) (19) Credit contracts
 (1,017)
 (856)
 - (123)
 -(2) (1,998)
 50 Other derivative contracts
 (35) (82) ---- (117)
 -Total derivative contracts
 (1,192)
 3,233 
- (3,524)
 (9) (96) (1,588)
 396 (8) Other assets
 314 12 -(82) --244  3 (3) Other liabilities 
(excludin
g derivatives
) (344) (8)
 -308 --(44) -(6) 
(1) See next page for detail. 
(2) Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management™s estimates of fair value and 
excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
(3) Included in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(4) Included in net gains (losses) from debt securities in the income statement. 
(5) Included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 
(6) Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(7) For more information on the change in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9. 
(8) Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(continued on following page) 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
(continued from previous page) 
The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances an
d settlements related to the chan
ges in Level 3 assets and lia
bilities measured at fair value on a recurring ba
sis for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
(in millions
) Purchases  
Sales 
Issuances  
Settlements 
Net 
Year ended December 31, 2011 
Trading assets 
(excludin
g derivatives
): 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 
$ 313  (199)
 - (102)
 12 Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 1,054 
 (1,310)
 -(41) (297) 
Cor
porate debt securities
 80 (150) --(70) Mortgage-backed securities
 759  (790)
 -(5) (36) Asset-backed securities
 516  (585)
 -(53) (122) 
Equity securities
 6 (22) -(12) (28) Total trading securities
 2,728 
 (3,056)
 - (213)
 (541) 
Other trading assets
 --2 -2 Total trading assets 
(excluding derivatives)
 2,728 
 (3,056)
 2  (213)
 (539) 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions
 4,280 
(4) 4,723 
 (2,076)
 6,923 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Residential 
3 --(9) (6) Commercial
 21 --(19) 2 Total mortgage-backed 
securities
 24 --(28) (4) Corporate debt securities
 94  (208)
 1 (72) (185) 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations
 4,805 
(36) - (1,044)
 3,725 
Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 5,918 
-333 (5,720
) 531 Home equity loans
 44 --(4) 40 Other asset-backed securities
 1,428 
 (456)
 1,395 
 (2,186)
 181 Total asset-backed securities
 7,390 
(456) 1,728 
(7,910
) 752 Other debt securities
 -(85) --(85) Total debt securities
 16,593 
(789) 6,452 
(11,130
) 11,126 
Marketable equity securities: 
Perpetual preferred securities
 1 (13) - (1,231)
 (1,243) 
Other marketable e
quit
y securities
 3 (12) -(1) 
(10) Total marketable 
equity securities
 4 (25) - (1,232)
 (1,253) 
Total available-for-sale 
securities
 16,597
 (814)
 6,452 
 (12,362)
 9,873 
Mortgages held for sale
 576 (21) - (659)
 (104) 
Loans 
23 (309) -(13) (299) Mortgage servicing rights (residential)
 -- 4,011 
(54) 3,957 
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
Interest rate contracts
 6 (1) - (3,419)
 (3,414) 
Commodit
y contracts 
7 (17) -1 (9) 
Equity contracts
 123  (255)
 -160 28 Foreign exchange contracts 
4 (4) -(6) (6) Credit contracts
 6 (3) - (126)
 (123) 
Other derivative contracts
 -----Total derivative contracts
 146  (280)
 - (3,390)
 (3,524) 
Other assets
 10 (1) 
-(91) (82) Short sale liabilities
 (125)
 124 -1 -Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
 (10) 1 -317 308 The following table provides quantitative information about 
the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs 
used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and 

liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for which 

we use an internal model. 
The significant unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and 
liabilities that are valued using 
fair values obtained from third 
party vendors are not included in the table as the specific inputs 

applied are not provided by the vendor (see discussion regarding 

vendor-developed valuations within the ﬁLevel 3 Asset and 

Liability Valuation Processesﬂ section previously within this 

Note). In addition, the table excludes the valuation techniques 

and significant unobservable inputs for certain classes of Level 3 

assets and liabilities measured using an internal model that we 
consider, both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant 

relative to our overall Level 3 assets and liabilities. We made this 

determination based upon an evaluation of each class which 

considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the 

unobservable inputs and potential for significant changes in fair 

value due to changes in those inputs
. ($ in millions, except cost to service amounts) 
Fair Value 
Level 3 
Valuation Technique(s) 
Significant 
Unobservable Input
Range of 
 Inputs 
Weighted 
Average (1) 
December 31, 2013 
Trading and available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions: 
Government, healthcare and 
other revenue bonds 
$ 2,739 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.4 -6.4 % 
1.4
Auction rate securities and other municipal 
bonds 
 63 
Vendor priced 
451 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.4 -12.3 
4.6 
Weighted average life 
1.4 -13.0 yrs 
4.4 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations (2)
 612 Market comparable pricing 
Comparab
ility adjustment 
(12.0) -23.3 % 
8.5
Asset-backed securities: 
 1,349 
Vendor 
priced 
Auto loans and leases
 492 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.6 - 0.9 
0.8 
Weighted average life 
1.4 - 1.6 yrs 
1.5 
Other asset-backed securities: 
Diversified payment rights (3)
 757 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
1.4 -4.7 % 
3.0 
Other commercial and consumer
 944 (4) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.6 -21.2 
4.0 
Weighted average life 
0.6 -7.6 yrs 
2.2
Marketable equity securities: perpetual 
preferred
 78 
 729 (5) 
Vendor priced 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
4.8 -8.3 % 
7.4 
Weighted average life 
1.0 -15.0 yrs 
12.2 
Mort
gag
es held for sale 
(residential
) 2,374 
Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
0.6 -12.4 % 
2.8 
Discount rate 
3.8 -7.9 
5.5 
Loss severit
y 1.3 -32.5 
21.5 
Pre
pay
ment rate 
2.0 -9.9 
5.4 
Loans 
 5,723 (6) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
2.4 -3.9 
3.3 
Prepayment rate 
3.3 -37.8 
12.2 
Utilization rate 
0.0 -2.0 
0.8 
Mortgage servicing rights (residential)
 15,580 
Discounted cash flow 
Cost to service per loan (7) 
$ 86 -773 191 Discount rate 
5.4 
-11.2 % 
7.8 
Prepayment rate (8) 
7.5 -19.4 
10.7 
Net derivative assets and (liabilities): 
Interest rate contracts 
 (14) 
Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
0.0 -16.5 
5.0 
Loss severity 
44.9 -50.0 
50.0 
Prepayment rate 
11.1 -15.6 
15.6 
Interest rate contracts: derivative loan 
commitments 
(26) Discounted cash flow 
Fall-out factor 
1.0 -99.0 
21.8 
Initial-value servicin
g (21.5
) -
81.6 b
ps 
32.6 
Equity contracts 
199 Discounted cash flow 
Conversion factor 
(18.4) -0.0 % 
(14.1) 
Weighted average life 
0.3 -3.3 yrs 
1.8
 (245)
Option model 
Correlation factor 
(5.3) -87.6 % 
72.2 
Volatility factor 
6.8 -81.2 
25.4 
Credit contracts 
 (378) 
Market comparable pricing 
Comparability adjustment 
(31.3) -30.4 
(0.1)
 3Option model 
Credit s
pread
 0.0 -12.2 
0.7 
Loss severit
y 10.5 -72.5 
47.4 
Other assets: nonmarketable e
quit
y investments
 1,386 
Market com
parable 
pricin
g Comparabilit
y adjustment 
(30.6
) -(
5.4
) (21.9
) Insignificant Level 3 assets, 
net of liabilities 
678 (9) 
Total level 3 assets, net of liabilities 
$ 33,494 
(10) (1) Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such as loans and securities, 
and notional amounts for derivative 
instruments. 
(2) Includes $695 million of collateralized debt obligations. 
(3) Securities backed by specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign originators. 
(4) Consists primarily of investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, in which the timing of advances and 
repayments of principal are uncertain. 
(5) Consists of auction rate preferred equity securities with no maturity date that are callable by the issuer. 
(6) Consists predominantly of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactio
ns. 
(7) The high end of the range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the range is $86 - $302. 
(8) Includes a blend of prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by mortgage interest rates as wel
l as our estimation of drivers of borrower 
behavior. 
(9) Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individu
ally and in the aggregate insignificant. The 
amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, other marketable equity securities, other liabilities an
d certain net derivative assets and liabilities, 
such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts and other derivative contracts.  
(10)Consists of total Level 3 assets of $37.2 billion and total Level 3 liabilities of $3.7 billion, before netting of derivative b
alances. 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
($ in millions, except cost to service amounts) 
Fair Value 
Level 3 
Valuation Technique(s) 
Significant 
Unobservable Input
Range o
f  Inputs 
Weighted 
Average (1) 
December 31, 2012 
Trading and available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions: 
Government, healthcare and 
other revenue bonds 
$  3,081 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.5 -4.8 % 
1.8 
Auction rate securities and other munici
pal bonds
 596 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
2.0  -12.9  
4.4  
Wei
ghted avera
ge life 3.0  -7.5 
yrs 3.4 
Collateralized loan and other debt obligations(2)
 1,423 
Market comparable pricing 
Comparability adjustment 
(22.5) -24.7 % 
3.5
 12,507 
Vendor priced 
Asset-backed securities: 
Auto loans and leases
 5,921 
Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
2.1  
-9.7 
3.2  
Discount rate 
0.6 
-1.6 
1.0 
Loss severity 
50.0 
-66.6 
51.8 
Prepayment rate 
0.6 
-0.9 
0.7 
Other asset-backed securities: 
Dealer floor 
plan
 1,030 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.5 
-2.2 
1.9 
Diversified 
pay
ment ri
ghts 
(3)
639 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
1.0 
-2.9 
1.8 
Other commercial and consumer
 1,665 
(4) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.6 
-6.8 
2.7 
Wei
ghted avera
ge life 1.0  
-7.5 
yrs 2.9
87 Vendor 
priced 
Marketable equity securities: perpetual 
preferred
 794 (5) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
4.3 
-9.3 
% 6.3 
Weighted average life 
1.0 
-7.0 yrs 
5.3 
Mortgages held for sale (residential)
 3,250 
Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
0.6 
-14.8 
% 5.5 
Discount rate 
3.4 
-7.5 
5.4 
Loss severity 
1.3 -35.3 
26.4 
Prepayment rate 
1.0 -11.0 
6.2 
Loans
 6,021 
(6) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
2.4 
-2.8 
2.6 
Prepayment rate 
1.6 
-44.4 
11.6 
Utilization rate 
0.0 
-2.0 
0.8 
Mortgag
e servicin
g rights 
(residential
) 11,538 
Discounted cash flow 
Cost to service 
per loan 
(7) 
$ 90  -854 
219 Discount rate 
6.7 -10.9 % 
7.4 
Pre
pay
ment rate 
(8) 
7.3  -23.7  
15.7 
Net derivative assets and (liabilities): 
Interest rate contracts
 162 Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
0.0 -20.0 
5.4 
Loss severity 
45.8 -83.2 
51.6 
Prepayment rate 
7.4 -15.6 
14.9 
Interest rate contracts: derivative loan 
commitments
 497 Discounted cash flow 
Fall-out facto
r 1.0  -99.0  
22.9 
Initial-value servicing 
(13.7) -137.2 bps 
85.6 
Equity contracts
 (122) 
Option model 
Correlation facto
r (43.6) -94.5  % 
50.3  
Volatility facto
r 3.0  -68.9  
26.5 
Credit contracts 
(1,157
) Market com
parable 
pricin
g Com
parabilit
y adjustment 
(34.4
) -30.5 
0.1 
8 Option model 
Credit spread 
0.1  -14.0  
2.0  
Loss severity 
16.5 -87.5 
52.3 
Insignificant Level 3 assets, 
net of liabilities
 835 (9)  Total level 3 assets, net of liabilities 
$  48,775 
(10) (1) Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such as loans and securities, 
and notional amounts for derivative 
instruments. 
(2) Includes $665 million of collateralized debt obligations. 
(3) Securities backed by specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign originators. 
(4) Consists primarily of investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, in which the timing of advances and 
repayments of principal are uncertain. 
(5) Consists of auction rate preferred equity securities with no maturity date that are callable by the issuer. 
(6) Consists predominantly of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactio
ns. 
(7) The high end of the range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the range is $90 - $437. 
(8) Includes a blend of prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by mortgage interest rates as wel
l as our estimation of drivers of borrower 
behavior. 
(9) Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individu
ally and in the aggregate insignificant. The 
amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities backed by home equity loans, oth
er marketable equity securities, other 
assets, other liabilities and certain net derivative assets and liabilities, such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange cont
racts and other derivative contracts. 
(10)Consists of total Level 3 assets of $51.9 billion and total Level 3 liabilities of $3.1 billion, before netting of derivative b
alances. 
The valuation techniques used for our Level 3 assets and 
liabilities, as presented in the previous table, are described as 
follows:  
Discounted cash flow - Discounted cash flow valuation 
techniques generally consist of developing an estimate of 
future cash flows that are expected to occur over the life of 

an instrument and then discounting those cash flows at a 

rate of return that results in the fair value amount. 
Option model - Option model valuation techniques are 
generally used for instruments in which the holder has a 
contingent right or obligation based on the occurrence of a 

future event, such as the price of a referenced asset going 

above or below a predetermined strike price. Option models 

estimate the likelihood of the specified event occurring by 
incorporating assumptions such as volatility estimates, price 

of the underlying instrument and expected rate of return. 
Market comparable pricing - Market comparable pricing 
valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of 
certain instruments by incorporating known inputs such as 

recent transaction prices, pending transactions, or prices of 

other similar investments which require significant 

adjustment to reflect differences in instrument 

characteristics. 
Vendor-priced Œ Prices obtained from third party pricing 
vendors or brokers that are used to record the fair value of 
the asset or liability, of which the related valuation 

technique and significant unobservable inputs are not 

provided. 
Significant unobservable inputs presented in the previous 
table are those we consider significant to the fair value of the 

Level 3 asset or liability. We consider unobservable inputs to be 

significant, if by their exclusion, 
the fair value of the Level 3 asset 
or liability would be impacted by a predetermined percentage 

change or based on qualitative factors such as nature of the 

instrument, type of valuation technique used, and the 

significance of the unobservable inputs relative to other inputs 

used within the valuation. Following is a description of the 

significant unobservable inputs provided in the table. 
Comparability adjustment Œ is an adjustment made to 
observed market data such as a transaction price in order to 

reflect dissimilarities in underlying collateral, issuer, rating, 

or other factors used within a market valuation approach, 

expressed as a percentage of an observed price. 
Conversion Factor Œ is the risk-adjusted rate in which a 
particular instrument may be exchanged for another 
instrument upon settlement, expressed as a percentage 

change from a specified rate. 
Correlation factor - is the likelihood of one instrument 

changing in price relative to another based on an 

established relationship expressed as a percentage of 

relative change in price over a period over time. 
Cost to service - is the expected cost per loan of servicing a 
portfolio of loans which includes estimates for 
unreimbursed expenses (including delinquency and 

foreclosure costs) that may occur as a result of servicing 

such loan portfolios. 
Credit spread Œ is the portion of
 the interest rate in excess of 
a benchmark interest rate, such as OIS, LIBOR or U.S. 

Treasury rates, that when applied to an investment captures 

changes in the obligor™s creditworthiness. 
Default rate Œ is an estimate of the likelihood of not 

collecting contractual amounts owed expressed as a 

constant default rate (CDR). 
Discount rate Œ is a rate of return used to present value the 
future expected cash flow to arrive at the fair value of an 
instrument. The discount rate consists of a benchmark rate 

component and a risk premium component. The benchmark 

rate component, for example, OIS, LIBOR or U.S. Treasury 

rates, is generally observable within the market and is 

necessary to appropriately reflect the time value of money. 

The risk premium component reflects the amount of 

compensation market participants require due to the 

uncertainty inherent in the inst
ruments™ cash flows resulting 

from risks such as credit and liquidity.  
Fall-out factor - is the expected percentage of loans 
associated with our interest rate lock commitment portfolio 
that are likely of not funding. 
Initial-value servicing - is the estimated value of the 

underlying loan, including the value attributable to the 

embedded servicing right, expressed in basis points of 

outstanding unpaid principal balance. 
Loss severity Œ is the percentage of contractual cash flows 
lost in the event of a default. 
Prepayment rate Œ is the estimated rate at which forecasted 
prepayments of principal of the related loan or debt 
instrument are expected to occur, expressed as a constant 

prepayment rate (CPR). 
 Utilization rate Œ is the estimated rate in which incremental 
portions of existing reverse mortgage credit lines are 
expected to be drawn by borrowers, expressed as an 

annualized rate. 
Volatility factor Œ is the extent of change in price an item is 
estimated to fluctuate over a specified period of time 
expressed as a percentage of relative change in price over a 

period over time. 
Weighted average life Œ is the weighted average number of 
years an investment is expected to remain outstanding, 
based on its expected cash flows reflecting the estimated 

date the issuer will call or extend the maturity of the 

instrument or otherwise reflecting an estimate of the timing 

of an instrument™s cash flows whose timing is not 

contractually fixed. 
Significant Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Asset and 
Liability Input Sensitivity 
We generally use discounted cash flow or similar internal 
modeling techniques to determine the fair value of our Level 3 

assets and liabilities. Use of these techniques requires 

determination of relevant inputs and assumptions, some of 

which represent significant unobservable inputs as indicated in 

the preceding table. Accordingly, changes in these unobservable 

inputs may have a significant impact on fair value. 
Certain of these unobservable inputs will (in isolation) have a 
directionally consistent impact
 on the fair value of the 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
instrument for a given change in that input. Alternatively, the 
fair value of the instrument may move in an opposite direction 

for a given change in another input. Where multiple inputs are 

used within the valuation technique of an asset or liability, a 

change in one input in a certain direction may be offset by an 

opposite change in another input having a potentially muted 

impact to the overall fair value of that particular instrument. 

Additionally, a change in one unobservable input may result in a 

change to another unobservable input (that is, changes in certain 

inputs are interrelated to one an
other), which may counteract or 
magnify the fair value impact. 
SECURITIES, LOANS and MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE 
The 
fair values of predominantly all Level 3 trading securities, 

mortgages held for sale, loans, other nonmarketable equity 

investments, and available-for-sale securities have consistent 
inputs, valuation techniques and correlation to changes in 

underlying inputs. The internal models used to determine fair 

value for these Level 3 instruments use certain significant 

unobservable inputs within a discounted cash flow or market 

comparable pricing valuation te
chnique. Such inputs include 
discount rate, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, 

utilization rate and weighted average life. 
These Level 3 assets would decrease (increase) in value based 
upon an increase (decrease) in 
discount rate, default rate, loss 
severity, or weighted average life inputs. Conversely, the fair 

value of these Level 3 assets would generally increase (decrease) 

in value if the prepayment rate input were to increase (decrease) 

or if the utilization rate input were to increase (decrease). 
Generally, a change in the assumption used for default rate is 
accompanied by a directionally 
similar change in the risk 
premium component of the discount rate (specifically, the 

portion related to credit risk) and a directionally opposite change 

in the assumption used for prepayment rates. Unobservable 

inputs for loss severity, utilization rate and weighted average life 

do not increase or decrease based on movements in the other 

significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3 assets. 
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 
Level 3 derivative instruments 
are valued using market comparable pricing, option pricing and 

discounted cash flow valuation techniques. We utilize certain 

unobservable inputs within thes
e techniques to determine the 
fair value of the Level 3 derivative instruments. The significant 

unobservable inputs consist of credit spread, a comparability 

adjustment, prepayment rate, defa
ult rate, loss severity, initial-
value servicing, fall-out factor, volatility factor, weighted average 

life, conversion factor, and correlation factor. 
Level 3 derivative assets (liabilities) where we are long the 
underlying would decrease (increase) in value upon an increase 

(decrease) in default rate, fall-out factor, credit spread, 

conversion factor, or loss severity inputs. Conversely, Level 3 

derivative assets (liabilities) would increase (decrease) in value 

upon an increase (decrease) in prepayment rate, initial-value 

servicing, weighted average life, or volatility factor inputs. The 

inverse of the above relationships would occur for instruments in 

which we are short the underlying. The correlation factor and 

comparability adjustment inputs may have a positive or negative 

impact on the fair value of 
these derivative instruments 
depending on the change in value of the item the correlation 

factor and comparability adjustment is referencing. The 

correlation factor and comparability adjustment is considered 

independent from movements in other significant unobservable 

inputs for derivative instruments. 
Generally, for derivative instruments for which we are subject 
to changes in the value of the underlying referenced instrument, 

change in the assumption used for default rate is accompanied 

by directionally similar change in the risk premium component 

of the discount rate (specifically, the portion related to credit 

risk) and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used 

for prepayment rates. Unobservable inputs for loss severity, fall-

out factor, initial-value servicing, weighted average life, 

conversion factor, and volatility do not increase or decrease 

based on movements in other significant unobservable inputs for 

these Level 3 instruments. 
MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS 
We use a discounted cash 
flow valuation technique to determine the fair value of Level 3 

mortgage servicing rights. These models utilize certain 

significant unobservable inputs including prepayment rate, 

discount rate and costs to service. An increase in any of these 

unobservable inputs will reduce the fair value of the mortgage 

servicing rights and alternatively, a decrease in any one of these 

inputs would result in the mortgage servicing rights increasing in 

value. Generally, a change in the assumption used for the default 

rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the 

assumption used for cost to service and a directionally opposite 

change in the assumption used for prepayment. The sensitivity 

of our residential MSRs is discussed further in Note 8. 
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a 
Nonrecurring Basis 
We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain 
assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with 

GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from 
application of LOCOM accounting or write-downs of individual 

assets. The following table provides the fair value hierarchy and 

carrying amount of all assets that were still held as of 

December 31, 2013, and 2012, and for which a nonrecurring fair 

adjustment was recorded during the years then ended. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
Mortgages held for sale (LOCOM) (1) 
$ - 1,126 
893  2,019   
-1,509 1,045 2,554 Loans held for sale
 - 14
 - 14
 -4 -4 Loans: 
Commercial
 -414 -414 -1,507 -1,507 Consumer
 - 3,690 
7  3,697   
-5,889 4 5,893 Total loans (2) 
- 4,104 
7  4,111   
-7,396 4 7,400 Other assets (3)
 -445 740  1,185   
-989 144 1,133 (1) Predominantly real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans. 
(2) Represents carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value of the collateral. 
(3) Includes the fair value of foreclosed real estate, other collateral owned and nonmarketable equity investments. 
The following table presents the increase (decrease) in value 
of certain assets for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment 

has been recognized during the periods presented. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
2013 
2012 Mortgages held for sale (LOCOM) 
$ (23)
 37 Loans held for sale
 (1)  
1 Loans: 
Commercial
 (216)
 (795) 
Consumer (1)
 (2,050)  
 (4,989) 
Total loans
 (2,266)  
 (5,784) 
Other assets (2)
 (214)
 (316) 
Total 
$ (2,504)  
 (6,062) 
(1) Represents write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral. 
(2) Includes the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that 
were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as 

foreclosed assets. Also includes impairment losses on nonmarketable equity 

investments.  
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
The table below provides quantitative information about the 
valuation techniques and significan
t unobservable inputs used in 
the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and 
liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for 

which we use an internal model. 
We have excluded from the table classes of Level 3 assets and 
liabilities measured using an internal model that we consider, 
both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant relative to 

our overall Level 3 nonrecurring measurements. We made this 

determination based upon an evaluation of each class which 

considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the 

unobservable inputs and potential for significant changes in fair 

value due to changes in those inputs. 
($ in millions) 
Fair Value 
Level 3 
Valuation Technique(s) (1) 
Significant 
Unobservable Inputs (1) 
Range 
of inputs 
Weighted 
Average (2) 
December 31, 2013 
Residential mortgages 
held for sale (LOCOM) 
$  893 
(3) 
Discounted cash flow 
Default rate(5) 
1.2 
-4.4 % 2.7 % Discount rate 
4.3 
-12.0 
10.9 
Loss severity 
1.6 
-48.2   
5.2 Prepayment rate (6) 
2.0 -100.0 
67.2 
Other assets: private equity
 fund investments (4)
505 Market comparable pricing 
Comparability adjustment 
4.6 
-4.6 4.6 Insignificant level 3 assets
242 Total 
 1,640 
December 31, 2012 
Residential mortgages 
held for sale (LOCOM) 
$ 1,045 
(3) 
Discounted cash flow 
Default rate(5) 
2.9 
-21.2 % 7.9 % Discount rate 
4.1 
-11.9 10.9 Loss severity 
2.0 
-45.0 6.0 Prepayment rate (6) 
1.0 
-100.0 66.7 Insignificant level 3 assets
 148 
Total 
1,193 (1) Refer to the narrative following the recurring quantitative Level 3 table of this Note for a definition of the valuation techni
que(s) and significant unobservable inputs. 
(2) For residential MHFS, weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance of the loans. 
(3) Consists of approximately $825 million and $942 million government insured/guaranteed loans purchased from GNMA-guaranteed mort
gage securitization, at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively and $68 million and $103 million of other mortgage loans which are not government insu
red/guaranteed at December 31, 2013 
and 2012, respectively. 
(4) Represents a single investment. For additional information, see the ﬁAlternative Investmentsﬂ section in this Note. 
(5) Applies only to non-government insured/guaranteed loans. 
(6) Includes the impact on prepayment rate of expected defaults for the government insured/guaranteed loans, which impacts the freq
uency and timing of early resolution of 
loans. 
Alternative Investments 
The following table summarizes our investments in various types 
of funds for which we use net asset values (NAVs) per share as a 

practical expedient to measure 
fair value on recurring and 
nonrecurring bases. The investments are included in trading 

assets, available-for-sale securities, and other assets. The table 

excludes those investments that are probable of being sold at an 
amount different from the funds™ NAVs.
(in millions) 
Fair value 
Unfunded 
commitments 
Rede
mption 
frequency 
Redemption 
notice 
period Decemb
er 31, 2013 
Offshore funds 
$ 308 
-Daily - Quarterly 
1 - 180 days 
Funds of funds
 --N/A 
N/A 
Hedge funds 
2 -Monthly - Semi Annually 
5 - 95 days 
Private equity funds (1)(2)
 1,496 
316 N/A N/A 
Venture capital funds (2)
 63 14 N/A 
N/A 
Total (3) 
$  1,869 
330 December 31, 2012 
Offshore funds 
$ 379 
-Daily - Annually 
1 - 180 days 
Funds of funds
 1 -Quarterly 
90 days 
Hedge funds
 2 -Daily - Annually 
5 - 95 days 
Private equity funds
 807 195 N/A 
N/A 
Venture capital funds 
82 21 N/A 
N/A 
Total (3) 
$ 1,271
 216 N/A - Not applicable 
(1) Excludes $505 million in a private equity fund that had a nonrecurring fair value adjustment during 2013 and is probable of bei
ng sold for an amount different from the 
fund™s NAV; therefore, the investment™s fair value has been estimated using recent transaction information. This investment is 
subject to the Volcker Rule, which includes 
provisions that restrict banking entities from owning interests in certain types of funds. 
(2) Includes certain investments subject to the Volcker Rule, which we may have to divest. 
(3) Includes nonmarketable equity investments carried at cost for which we use NAVs as a practical expedient for determining nonrec
urring fair value adjustments. These 
investments are predominantly private equity funds and had a fair value of $1.5 billion and $816 million and carrying value of 
$1.4 billion and $651 million at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The fair value and carrying value of investments with nonrecurring fair value adjustm
ents were $88 million and $21 million 
during 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
Offshore funds primarily invest in foreign mutual funds. 
Redemption restrictions are in pl
ace for these investments with a 
fair value of $144 million and $189 million at December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012, respectively, due to lock-up provisions 
that will remain in effect until October 2015. 
Private equity funds invest in equity and debt securities 
issued by private and publicly-held companies in connection 

with leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and expansion 

opportunities. Substantially all of these investments do not allow 

redemptions. Alternatively, we receive distributions as the 

underlying assets of the funds liquidate. 
Venture capital funds invest in domestic and foreign 
companies in a variety of industries, including information 

technology, financial services and healthcare. These investments 

can never be redeemed with the funds. Instead, we receive 

distributions as the underlying assets of the fund liquidate. 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
Fair Value Option 
We measure MHFS at fair value for MHFS originations for 
which an active secondary market and readily available market 

prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for 

these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded 

when earned, and related direct loan origination costs are 

recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain 

of our other interests held related to residential loan sales and 

securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for MHFS 

and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing 

derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs measured at 

fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better matches 

changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of 

derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. 
We elected to measure certain LHFS portfolios at fair value 
in conjunction with customer accommodation activities, to 

better align the measurement basis of the assets held with our 

management objectives given the trading nature of these 

portfolios. In addition, we elected to measure at fair value 
certain letters of credit and nonmarketable equity securities that 

are hedged with derivative instruments to better reflect the 

economics of the transactions. The letters of credit are included 
in trading account assets or liabilities, and the nonmarketable 

equity securities are included in other assets. 
Loans that we measure at fair value consist predominantly of 
reverse mortgage loans previously transferred under a GNMA 

reverse mortgage securitization program accounted for as a 

secured borrowing. Before the transfer, they were classified as 

MHFS measured at fair value an
d, as such, remain carried on 
our balance sheet under the fair value option. 
Similarly, we may elect fair value option for the assets and 
liabilities of certain consolidated VIEs. This option is generally 

elected for newly consolidated VIEs for which predominantly all 

of our interests, prior to consolidation, are carried at fair value 

with changes in fair value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, 

such an election allows us to continue fair value accounting 

through earnings for those interests and eliminate income 

statement mismatch otherwise caused by differences in the 

measurement basis of the consolidated VIEs assets and 

liabilities. 
The following table reflects the differences between fair value 
carrying amount of certain assets and liabilities for which we 

have elected the fair value option and the contractual aggregate 

unpaid principal amount at maturity. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions) 
Fair value 
carrying
amount 
Aggregate 
 unpaid 
principal 
Fair value   
carrying   
amount 
less 
aggregate 
unpaid 
principal 
Fair value 
carrying 
amount 
Aggregate unpaid 
principal 
Fair value 
carrying 
amount 
less 
aggregate unpaid 
principal 
Mortgages held for sale: 
Total loans 
$ 13,879 
 13,966 
 (87)(1)
42,30541,183 1,122 (1) 
Nonaccrual loans  
205 359  (154)
 309  655  (346) 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing
39 46  (7)
49 64  (15) 
Loans held for sale: 
Total loans
1 9  (8)
6 10  (4) 
Nonaccrual loans  
1 9  (8)
2 6  (4) 
Loans: 
Total loans
 5,995 
 5,674 
 321 6,2065,669537 Nonaccrual loans  
188 188 - 89  89 -Other assets (2)
 1,386 
n/a
 n/a
-n/a  
n/a  
Long-term debt
- (199)
 199 (3)
 (1)
 (1,157)
 1,156 (3) 
(1) The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal includes changes in fair value recorded at and
 subsequent to funding, gains and losses on 
the related loan commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans. 
(2) Consists of nonmarketable equity investments carried at fair value. See Note 7 for more information. 
(3) Represents collateralized, non-recourse debt securities issued by certain of our consolidated securitization VIEs that are held
 by third party investors. To the extent cash 
flows from the underlying collateral are not sufficient to pay the unpaid principal amount of the debt, those third party inves
tors absorb losses. 
The assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value 
option are initially measured at 
fair value. Gains and losses from 
initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are 
recognized in earnings. The changes in fair value related to 
initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value 

included in earnings for these asse
ts and liabilities measured at 
fair value are shown below by income statement line item.
 2013 
2012 2011 (in millions) 
Mortgage
banking 
noninterest 
income 
Net gains  
 (losses) 
from 
trading 
activities 
Other   
noninterest 
income 
Mortgage 
banking 
noninterest  
income 
Net 
gains 
(losses) 
from 
trading 
activities 
Other noninterest 
income 
Mortgage 
banking 
noninterest  
income 
Net gains 
(losses) 
from 
trading 
activities 
Other noninterest 
income 
Year ended December 31, 
Mortgages held for sale 
$  2,073 
--8,240 -1 6,084 --Loans held for sale
 ----- 21
 -- 32 
Loans
 -- (216)
 -- 63 
13 -80 Other assets
 --324 ------Long-term debt
 ----- (27)
 (11)
 --Other interests held (1)
 - (15)
 -- (42)
 34
 - (25)
 -(1) Consists of retained interests in securitization and changes in fair value of letters of credit. 
For performing loans, instrument-specific credit risk gains or 
losses were derived principally by determining the change in fair 
value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied 

credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less 

the relevant risk-free benchmark interest rate. For 

nonperforming loans, we attribute all changes in fair value to 

instrument-specific credit risk. The following table shows the 
estimated gains and losses from earnings attributable to 

instrument-specific credit risk related to assets accounted for 
under the fair value option. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Gains (losses) attributable to 
instrument-specific credit risk: 
Mortgages held for sale 
$ 126  (124)
 (144) 
Loans held for sale
- 21 32 Total 
$ 126  (103)
 (112) 
Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial 
Instruments  
The table below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial 
instruments, excluding financial instruments recorded at fair 

value on a recurring basis as they are included within the Assets 

and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis table 

included earlier in this Note. The carrying amounts in the 

following table are recorded on the balance sheet under the 

indicated captions. We have not included assets and liabilities that are not 
financial instruments in our disclosure, such as the value of the 

long-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and trust 

customers, amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill 

and other intangibles, deferred taxes and other liabilities. The 

total of the fair value calculations presented does not represent, 

and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value 

of the Company. 
Estimated fair value 
(in millions) 
Carrying 
amount 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
December 31, 2013 
Financial assets 
Cash and due from banks (1) 
$  19,919 
 19,919   
-- 19,919 
Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale 
agreements and other short-term investments (1)
 213,793 
 5,160   
 208,633   
- 213,793 
Held-to-maturity securities
 12,346
 - 6,205   
 6,042 
 12,247 
Mortgages held for sale (2)
 2,884 
- 2,009   
893  2,902 
Loans held for sale (2)
 132 -136 -136 Loans, net (3)
 793,363 
- 58,350   
 740,063 
 798,413 
Nonmarketable equity investments (cost method)
 6,978 
-- 8,635
 8,635 
Financial liabilities 
Deposits
 1,079,177 
- 1,037,448   
 42,079 
 1,079,527 
Short-term borrowings (1)  
 53,883
 - 53,883
 - 53,883 
Long-term debt (4)
 152,987 
- 144,984   
 10,879 
 155,863 
December 31, 2012 

Financial assets 
Cash and due from banks (1) 
$ 21,860
 21,860 --21,860 Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale 
agreements and other short-term investments (1)
 137,313 5,046 132,267 -137,313 Mortgages held for sale (2) 
4,844 -3,808 1,045 4,853 Loans held for sale (2) 
104 -83 29 112 Loans, net (3) 
763,968 -56,237 716,114 772,351 Nonmarketable equity investments (cost method) 
6,799 -2 8,229 8,231 Financial liabilities 
 Deposits 
1,002,835  
-946,922 57,020 1,003,942  
Short-term borrowings (1) 
57,175 -57,175 -57,175 Long-term debt (4) 
127,366 -119,220 11,063 130,283 (1) Amounts consist of financial instruments in which carrying value approximates fair value. 
(2) Balance reflects MHFS and LHFS, as applicable, other than those MHFS and LHFS for which election of the fair value option was m
ade. 
(3) Loans exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected and also exclude lease financing with a carrying amount of $
12.0 billion and $12.4 billion at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
(4) The carrying amount and fair value exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected and obligations under capital leases of $11 million and $12 million at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit are 
not included in the table above.  
A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is 
the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related allowance. 

This amounted to $597 million and $586 million at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
Note 18: Preferred Stock 
We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock 
and 4 million shares of preference stock, both without par value. 

Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares 

both as to dividends and liquidation preference but have no 

general voting rights. We have not issued any preference shares 

under this authorization. If issued, preference shares would be 
limited to one vote per share. Our total authorized, issued and 

outstanding preferred stock is presented in the following two 

tables. The Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) Cumulative 

Convertible Preferred Stock is presented in the two tables below 

and in the table on the following page. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012  
Liquidation
preference 
per share 
 Shares 
authorized 
and designated  
Liquidation 
preference 
per share 
Shares 
authorized 
and designated 
DEP Shares 
Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares (DEP) 
$10  97,000 
$ 10  97,000 
Series G 
7.25% Class A Preferred Stock
 15,000 
50,000 
 15,000
 50,000 
Series H 
Floating Class A Preferred Stock
 20,000 
 50,000 
 20,000
 50,000 
Series I 

Floatin
g Class A Preferred Stock
 100,000 
 25,010 
 100,000
 25,010 
Series J 
8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 1,000 
 2,300,000 
 1,000 
 2,300,000 
Series K 
7.98% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 1,000 
 3,500,000 
 1,000 
 3,500,000 
Series L 

7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock
 1,000 
 4,025,000 
 1,000 
 4,025,000 
Series N 

5.20% Non-Cumulative Per
petual Class A Preferred Stock
 25,000 
 30,000 
 25,000
 30,000 
Series O 
5.125% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 25,000 
 27,600 
 25,000
 27,600 
Series P 
5.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 25,000 
 26,400 
 --Series Q 

5.85% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 25,000 
 69,000 
--Series R 
6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 25,000 
 34,500 
--ESOP 
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (1)
- 1,105,664 
- 910,934 
Total 
 11,340,174 
 11,015,544 
(1) See the following page for additional information about the liquidation preference for the ESOP Cumulative Preferred Stock. 
December 31, 2013 
December 31, 2012 
(in millions, except shares) 
Shares 
issued and 
outstanding 
Par 
value
Ca
rr
ying  value 
Disc
ount 
Shares 
issued and 
outstanding 
Par 
value 
Carr
ying value 
Discount 
DEP Shares 

Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares (DEP)
 96,546 
$ ---96,546 $  
---Series I 
(1) Floatin
g Class A Preferred Stock
 25,010 
 2,501 
 2,501 
- 25,010
 2,501 
 2,501 
-Series J 
(1) 
8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 2,150,375 
 2,150 
 1,995 
155  2,150,375 
 2,150 
 1,995 
155 Series K 
(1) 

7.98% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 3,352,000 
 3,352 
 2,876 
476  3,352,000 
 3,352 
 2,876 
476 Series L 
(1) 7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock
 3,968,000 
 3,968 
 3,200 
768  3,968,000 
 3,968 
 3,200 
768 Series N 
(1) 5.20% Non-Cumulative Per
petual Class A Preferred Stock
 30,000 
750 750 - 30,000
 750 750 -Series O 
(1) 
5.125% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 26,000 
650 650 - 26,000
 650 650 -Series P 
(1) 
5.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 25,000 
625 625 -----Series Q
 (1) 5.85% Fixed-to-Floatin
g Non-Cumulative Per
petual Class A Preferred Stock
 69,000 
 1,725 
 1,725 
-----Series R
 (1) 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock
 33,600 
840 840 -----ESOP 
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock
 1,105,664 
 1,105 
 1,105 
- 910,934
 911 911 -Total 
 10,881,195 
$   17,666 
 16,267 
 1,399 
 10,558,865 $ 
 14,282
 12,883
 1,399 
(1) Preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital. 
Note 18:  Preferred Stock 
(continued) 
In March 2013, we issued 25 million Depositary Shares, each 
representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series P, for an 
aggregate public offering price of $625 million. 
In July 2013, we issued 69 million Depositary Shares, each 
representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Q, for an 

aggregate public offering price of $1.7 billion. 
In December 2013, we issued 34 million Depositary Shares, 
each representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series R, for an 

aggregate public offering price of $840 million. 
See Note 8 for additional information on our trust preferred 
securities. We do not have a commitment to issue Series G or H 

preferred stock. 
ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
All shares of our ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock 

(ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf 

of the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). 

Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the 

date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at annual rates 

based upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred 

Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan is 

converted into shares of our common stock based on the stated 

value of the ESOP Preferred Stock and the then current market 

price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also 

convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless 

previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP 

Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption 

price per share equal to the higher of (a) $1,000 per share plus 

accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair market value, as 

defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred 

Stock.  
Shares issued and outstanding 
Carrying value 
Dec. 31, 
Dec. 31,
 Dec. 31, 
Dec. 31, 
Adjustable dividend rate 
(in millions, except shares)
 2013 
2012  2013 
2012 Minimum 
Maximum 
ESOP Preferred Stock 
$1,000 liquidation preference per share 
2013  349,788 
-$ 350 -8.50 % 
9.50 2012  217,404 
245,604 217 246 10.00 11.00 2011  241,263 
277,263 241 277 9.00 10.00 2010  171,011 
201,011 171 201 9.50 10.50 2008 57,819 
73,434 58 73 10.50 11.50 2007  39,248 
53,768 39 54 10.75 11.75 2006  21,139 
33,559 21 34 10.75 11.75 2005  7,992 
18,882 8 19 9.75 10.75 2004 -7,413 -7 8.50 9.50 Total ESOP Preferred Stock (1)
 1,105,664 
910,934 $  1,105 
911 Unearned ESOP shares (2) 
$ (1,200) 
(986) 
(1) At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, additional paid-in capital included $95 million and $75 million, respectively, rela
ted to ESOP preferred stock. 
(2) We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The une
arned ESOP shares are reduced as 
shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are committed to be released. 
Note 19:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
Common Stock 
The following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized 
shares of common stock at December 31, 2013. 
Number of shares 
Dividend reinvestment and 
common stock purchase plans 
11,732,445  
Director plans
 1,054,645 
Stock plans (1)
 653,684,625 
Convertible securities and warrants 
 104,944,332 
Total shares reserved
 771,416,047 
Shares issued
 5,481,811,474 
Shares not reserved
 2,746,772,479 
Total shares authorized
 9,000,000,000 
(1) Includes employee options, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), 
profit sharing and compensation deferral plans. 
At December 31, 2013, we have warrants outstanding and 
exercisable to purchase 39,108,864 shares of our common stock 
with an exercise price of $34.01 per share, expiring on October 

28, 2018. We did not purchase any of these warrants in 2013. We 

purchased 70,210 of these warrants in 2012. These warrants 

were issued in connection with our participation in the TARP 

CPP. 
Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock 
Purchase Plans 
Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock 
direct purchase plans may purchase shares of our common stock 

at fair market value by rein
vesting dividends and/or making 

optional cash payments, under the plan's terms. 
Employee Stock Plans 
We offer stock-based employee compensation plans as described 

below. For information on our accounting for stock-based 

compensation plans, see Note 1. 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS 
Our Long- 
Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides for awards 

of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation 

rights, restricted shares, rest
ricted stock rights (RSRs), 
performance share awards (PSAs) and stock awards without 

restrictions. 
During 2013, 2012 and 2011 we granted RSRs and 
performance shares as our primary long-term incentive awards 

instead of stock options. Holders of RSRs are entitled to the 

related shares of common stock at no cost generally vesting over 

three to five years after the RSRs were granted. RSRs generally 

continue to vest after retirement 
according to the original vesting 
schedule. Except in limited circumstances, RSRs are canceled 

when employment ends. 
Holders of each vested PSA are entitled to the related shares 
of common stock at no cost. PSAs continue to vest after 

retirement according to the orig
inal vesting schedule subject to 
satisfying the performance criter
ia and other vesting conditions. 
Holders of RSRs and PSAs ma
y be entitled to receive 
additional RSRs and PSAs (dividend equivalents) or cash 

payments equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid 

had the RSRs or PSAs been issued and outstanding shares of 

common stock. RSRs and PSAs granted as dividend equivalents 

are subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions as the 

underlying award. 
Stock options must have an exercise price at or above fair 
market value (as defined in the plan) of the stock at the date of 

grant (except for substitute or replacement options granted in 

connection with mergers or other acquisitions) and a term of no 

more than 10 years. Except for options granted in 2004 and 

2005, which generally vested in full upon grant, options 

generally become exercisable over three years beginning on the 

first anniversary of the date of grant. Except as otherwise 

permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons 

other than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option 

exercise period is reduced or the options are canceled. 
Certain options granted prior to 2004 included the right to 
acquire a ﬁreloadﬂ stock option. Reload grants are fully vested 

upon grant and are expensed immediately; the last reload 

options were granted in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, none of 

the options outstanding included a reload feature. 
Compensation expense for most of our RSRs, and PSAs 
granted prior to 2013, is based on the quoted market price of the 

related stock at the grant date; in 2013 certain RSRs and all PSAs  

granted include discretionary
 performance based vesting 
conditions and are subject to variable accounting. For these 

awards, the associated compensation expense fluctuates with 

changes in our stock price. Stock option expense is based on the 

fair value of the awards at the date of grant. The following table 

summarizes the major components of stock incentive 

compensation expense and the re
lated recognized tax benefit. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
2013 
2012 2011 RSRs 
$ 568 435 338 Performance shares
 157 112 128 Stock options
 -13 63 Total stock incentive compensation 
expense 
$ 725 560 529 Related recognized tax benefit 
$ 273 211 200 Note 19:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
(continued) 
For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee 
and director stock options of acquired or merged companies into 
stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms 

of the original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange 

ratio. In addition, we converted restricted stock awards into 

awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting 

conditions are met. Holders receive cash dividends on 

outstanding awards if provided in the original award. 
The total number of shares of common stock available for 
grant under the plans at December 31, 2013, was 282 million. 
Director Awards 
Beginning in 2011, we granted only common stock awards under 

the LTICP to non-employee directors elected or re-elected at the 

annual meeting of stockholders and prorated awards to directors 

who join the Board at any other time. Stock awards vest 

immediately. Options also were 
granted to directors prior to 
2011, and can be exercised after twelve months through the tenth 

anniversary of the grant date. Options granted prior to 2005 may 

include the right to acquire a ﬁreloadﬂ stock option. 
Restricted Share Rights 
A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards 

at December 31, 2013, and changes during 2013 is in the 

following table: 
Number 
Weighted-  
average  
grant-date 
fair value  
Nonvested at January 1, 2013
 55,287,337  
$ 29.78 
Granted  18,476,399  
35.52 Vested 
(12,233,361) 
29.32 Canceled or forfeited 
(886,381) 
30.70 Nonvested at December 31, 2013
 60,643,994  
31.61 The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSRs granted 
during 2012 and 2011 was $31.49 and $31.02, respectively. 
At December 31, 2013, there was $702 million of total 
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSRs. The 

cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period 

of 2.5 years. The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2013, 

2012 and 2011 was $472 million, $89 million and $41 million, 

respectively. 
Performance Share Awards 
Holders of PSAs are entitled to the related shares of common 

stock at no cost subject to the Company's achievement of 

specified performance criteria over a three-year period. PSAs are 

granted at a target number; based on the Company's 

performance, the number of awards that vest can be adjusted 

downward to zero and upward to a maximum of either 125% or 

150% of target. The awards vest in the quarter after the end of 

the performance period. For PSAs whose performance period 

ended December 31, 2013, the determination of the number of 

performance shares that will vest will occur in the first quarter of 

2014, after review of the Company™s performance by the Human 

Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2013, PSAs 

granted include discretionary
 performance based vesting 
conditions and are subject to variable accounting. For these 

awards, the associated compensation expense fluctuates with 

changes in our stock price and the estimated outcome of meeting 

the performance conditions. The total expense that will be 

recognized on these awards cannot be finalized until the 

determination of the awards that will vest. 
A summary of the status of our PSAs at December 31, 2013 
and changes during 2013 is in the following table, based on the 

target amount of awards: 
Number 
Weighted-  
average  
grant date 
fair value  
Nonvested at January 1, 2013
 10,294,881 
$ 30.35 Granted 4,614,295 
33.56 Vested  
(4,070,028) 
27.67 Nonvested at December 31, 2013
 10,839,148 
32.72 The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance 
awards granted during 2012 and 2011 was $31.44 and $31.26, 

respectively. 
At December 31, 2013, there was $56 million of total 
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested 

performance awards. The cost is expected to be recognized over 

a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. 
Stock Options 
The table below summarizes stock option activity and related 
information for the stock plans. Options assumed in mergers are 

included in the activity and rela
ted information for Incentive 
Compensation Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, 

and in the activity and related info
rmation for Director Awards if
originally issued under a director plan.
Number 
Weighted- 
average 
exercise 
price 
Weighted-
average 
remaining 
contractual 
term (in yrs.) 
Aggregate  
intrinsic 
value 
(in millions) 
Incentive compensation plans 
Options outstanding as of December 31, 2012
 202,926,392 
$ 40.84 
Granted 
72,581 35.25 Canceled or forfeited 
(6,366,940) 
105.88 Exercised 
(56,147,977) 
28.40 Options exercisable and outstanding as of December 31, 2013
 140,484,056 
42.86 3.2 $ 2,245 
Director awards 
Options outstanding as of December 31, 2012
 588,022 31.42 Granted 
11,585 37.05 Canceled or forfeited 
(17,629) 
35.43 Exercised 
(102,341) 
28.87 Options exercisable and outstanding as of December 31, 2013
 479,637 31.95 2.8  6 As of December 31, 2013, there was no unrecognized 
compensation cost related to stock options. The total intrinsic 
value of options exercised during 2013, 2012 and 2011 was 

$643 million, $694 million and $246 million, respectively. 
Cash received from the exercise of stock options for 2013, 
2012 and 2011 was $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $554 million, 

respectively. 
We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to 
satisfy share option exercises. Rather, we have a general policy 

on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance 

requirements for our benefit plans (including share option 

exercises), conversion of our convertible securities, acquisitions 

and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the 

amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our 

capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for 

acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions 

(including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and 

legal considerations. These factors can change at any time, and 

there can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will 

repurchase or when we will repurchase them. 
The fair value of each option award granted on or after 
January 1, 2006, is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation 

model. The expected term of reload options granted is generally 

based on the midpoint between the valuation date and the 

contractual termination date of th
e original option. Our expected 
volatilities are based on a combination of the historical volatility 

of our common stock and implied volatilities for traded options 

on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. 

Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant. 

Both expected volatility and the risk-free rates are based on a 
period commensurate with our expected term. The expected 

dividend is based on a fixed dividend amount. 
The following table presents the weighted-average per share 
fair value of options granted and the assumptions used, based on 

a Black-Scholes option valuation model. All of the options 
granted in the years shown resulted from the reload feature. 
Year ended December 31, 
2013 
2012 2011 Per share fair value of options granted 
$ 1.58 2.79 3.78 Expected volatility
 18.3 %
 29.2 32.7 Expected dividends 
$ 0.93 0.68 0.32 Expected term (in years)
 0.5 0.7 1.0 Risk-free interest rate
 0.1 %  0.1 0.2 Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
The Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a 

defined contribution plan with an Employee Stock Ownership 

Plan (ESOP) feature. The ESOP feature enables the 401(k) Plan 

to borrow money to purchase our preferred or common stock. 

From 1994 through 2013, with the exception of 2009, we loaned 

money to the 401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP 

preferred stock. As our employer contributions are made to the 

401(k) Plan and are used by the 401(k) Plan to make ESOP loan 

payments, the ESOP preferred stock in the 401(k) Plan is 

released and converted into our common stock shares. 

Dividends on the common stock shares allocated as a result of 

the release and conversion of the ESOP preferred stock reduce 

retained earnings and the shares are considered outstanding for 

computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated 

ESOP preferred stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the 

shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for 

computing earnings per share. 
Loan principal and interest 
payments are made from our employer contributions to the 

401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP preferred 
Note 19:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
(continued) 
stock. With each principal and in
terest payment, a portion of the 
ESOP preferred stock is released and converted to common 

stock shares, which are allocated to the 401(k) Plan participants 

and invested in the Wells Fargo ESOP Fund within the 401(k) 

Plan. 
The balance of common stock and unreleased preferred stock 
held in the Wells Fargo ESOP fund, the fair value of unreleased 

ESOP preferred stock and the dividends on allocated shares of 

common stock and unreleased ESOP Preferred Stock paid to the 

401(k) Plan were: 
Shares outstanding 
December 31, 
(in millions, except shares) 
2013 
2012 2011 Allocated shares (common)
 137,354,139 
136,821,035 
131,046,406 
Unreleased shares (preferred)
 1,105,664 
910,934 858,759 Fair value of unreleased ESOP preferred shares 
$ 1,105 
911 859 Dividends paid 
Year ended December 31, 
2013 
2012 2011 Allocated shares (common) 
$ 159 117 60 Unreleased shares (preferred)
 132 115 95 Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent 
Sales Agents 
WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to sponsor a deferred 

compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide 

investment, financial and other qualifying services for or with 

respect to participating affiliates. 
The Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for 
Independent Contractors, which became effective January 1, 

2002, allows participants to defer all or part of their eligible 

compensation payable to them by a participating affiliate. The 

Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred 

compensation obligations of WF Deferred Compensation 

Holdings, Inc. under the plan. 
Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
Pension and Postretirement Plans 
We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined benefit 
retirement plan, the Wells Fargo & Company Cash Balance Plan 

(Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of Wells 

Fargo. Benefits accrued under the 
Cash Balance Plan were frozen 
effective July 1, 2009. 
Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees' Cash Balance Plan 
accounts were allocated a compensation credit based on a 

percentage of their certified compensation. The compensation 

credit percentage was based on age and years of credited service. 

The freeze discontinues the allocation of compensation credits 

after June 30, 2009. Investment credits continue to be allocated 

to participants based on their accumulated balances. 
We recognize settlement losses for our Cash Balance Plan 
based on an assessment of whether our estimated lump sum 

payments related to the Cash Balance Plan will, in aggregate for 

the year, exceed the sum of its annual service and interest cost 

(threshold); in 2013, lump sum payments exceeded this 

threshold. Settlement losses of $123 million were recognized in 

2013, representing the pro rata portion of the net loss remaining 

in cumulative other comprehensive income based on the 

percentage reduction in the Cash Balance Plan™s projected 

benefit obligation. A remeasurement of the Cash Balance liability 
and related plan assets occurs at the end of each quarter in 

which settlement losses are recognized. 
We did not make a contribution to our Cash Balance Plan in 
2013. We do not expect that we will be required to make a 

contribution to the Cash Balance Plan in 2014; however, this is 

dependent on the finalization of the actuarial valuation in 2014. 

Our decision of whether to make a contribution in 2014 will be 

based on various factors including the actual investment 

performance of plan assets during 2014. Given these 

uncertainties, we cannot estimate at this time the amount, if any, 

that we will contribute in 2014 to the Cash Balance Plan. For the 

nonqualified pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, 

there is no minimum required contribution beyond the amount 

needed to fund benefit payments; we may contribute more to our 

postretirement benefit plans dependent on various factors. 
We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain 
retired employees and reserve the right to terminate, modify or 

amend any of the benefits at any time. 
The information set forth in the following tables is based on 
current actuarial reports using the measurement date of 

December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans. 
The changes in the benefit obligation and the fair value of 
plan assets, the funded status and the amounts recognized on 

the balance sheet were: 
December 31,
 2013 
 2012 Pension benefits
 Pension benefits 
(in millions) 
Qualified 
Non-  
qualified  
Other 
benefits
 Qualified 
Non-
qualified 
Other benefits 
Change in benefit obligation: 
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 
$  11,717 
719  1,293 
10,634691 1,304 Service cost
--11  3- 11 
Interest cost
465 29 47  514 32 60 Plan participants™ contributions
--77 -- 80 
Actuarial loss (gain)
 (1,106)
 (17)
 (306)
1,24262  (23) 
Benefits paid
 (875)
 (62)
 (147)
 (725)
 (66)
 (147) 
Medicare Part D subsidy
 - - 8 - - 11 
Curtailment
-- --- (3) 
Amendments
---1--Liability transfer
--- 47
--Foreign exchange impact
 (3)
- (1)  
 1--Benefit obligation at end of year
 10,198 
669 982  11,717719 1,293 Change in plan assets: 
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 
 9,539 
-636  9,061-640 Actual return on plan assets
743 -71  1,149-55 Employer contribution
4 62 - 9 66  (3) 
Plan participants™ contributions
--77 -- 80 
Benefits paid
 (875)
 (62)
 (147)
 (725)
 (66)
 (147) 
Medicare Part D subsidy
 - - 8 - - 11 
Asset transfer
-- - 44
--Foreign exchange impact
 (2)
-- 1--Fair value of plan assets at end of year 
 9,409 
-645  9,539-636 Funded status at end of year 
$ (789)
 (669)
 (337)
 (2,178)
 (719)
 (657) 
Amounts recognized on the balance sheet at end of year: 
Liabilities 
$ (789)
 (669)
 (337)
 (2,178)
 (719)
 (657) 
Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued) 
The following table provides information for pension plans 
with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.
 December 
31, (in millions) 
2013 
2012 Projected benefit obligation 
$  10,822 
12,391 Accumulated benefit obligation
 10,820 
12,389 Fair value of plan assets
 9,364 
9,490 The components of net periodic benefit cost and other 
comprehensive income were: 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 2011 Pension benefits
 Pension benefits
 Pension benefits 
(in millions) 
Qualified 
Non- 
qualified 
Other 
benefits 
Qualified 
 Non-
qualified 
Other benefits 
Qualified 
 Non-
qualified 
Other benefits 
Service cost 
$ --11 3 -11 6 1 13 Interest cost
 465 29 47 514 32 60 520 34 71 Expected return on plan assets
 (674)
 - (36)
 (652) 
- (36)
 (759) 
- (41) 
Amortization of net actuarial loss (gain)
 137 15  (1)
 131 10 -86 6 -Amortization of prior service credit
 -- (2) 
-- (2)
 -- (3) 
Settlement loss (1)
 124 3 -2 5 -4 3 -Curtailment gain
 ----- (3)
 ---Net periodic benefit cost
 52 47 19  (2)
 47 30  (143)
 44 40 Other changes in plan assets 
and benefit obligations 
recognized in other 
comprehensive income: 
Net actuarial loss (gain)
 (1,175)
 (17)
 (341)
 758 62  (42)
 1,120 33  (74) 
Amortization of net actuarial gain (loss)
 (137)
 (15)
 1  (131)
 (10)
 - (86)
 (6)
 -Prior service cost
 --- (2) 
-----Amortization of prior service credit
 --2 --2 --3 Settlement (1)
 (124)
 (3)
 - (1) 
 (5) 
- (4) 
 (3)
 -Curtailment
 ------ (3) 
--Translation adjustments
 ------ (1) 
--Total recognized in other 
comprehensive income
 (1,436)
 (35)
 (338)
 624 47  (40)
 1,026 24  (71) 
Total recognized in net periodic 
benefit cost and other 
comprehensive income 
$ (1,384)
 12  (319)
 622 94  (10)
 883 68  (31) 
(1) 
Qualified settlements include $123 million for the Cash Balance Plan. 
Amounts recognized in cumulative OCI (pre tax) consist of: 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 Pension benefits
 Pension benefits 
(in millions) 
Qualified 
Non-  
qualified 
Other 
 benefits
 Qualified 
Non-
qualified 
Other benefits 
Net actuarial loss (gain) 
$  1,887 
148  (321)
 3,323 184 19 Net prior service credit
 (2)
 - (22)
 (2)
 - (25) 
Net transition obligation
 -----1 Total 
$  1,885 
148  (343)
 3,321 184  (5) 
The net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension plans 
and other post retirement plans that will be amortized from 
cumulative OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2014 is $74 

million. The net 
prior service credit for the defined benefit 
pension plans and other post retirement plans that will be 

amortized from cumulative OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 

2014 is $3 million. 
Plan Assumptions 
For additional information on our pension accounting 
assumptions, see Note 1. 
The weighted-average discount rates used to estimate the 
projected benefit obligation for pension benefits were: 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 Pension benefits 
Pension benefits 
Qualified 
Non-
qualified 
Other 
benefits 
Qualified 
Non-
qualified 
Other benefits 
Discount rate 
4.75 % 4.25 4.50 4.004.003.75 The weighted-average assumptions used to de
termine the net periodic benefit cost were: 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 2011 Pension benefits 
Pension benefits 
Pension benefits 
Qualified 
Non- 
qualified 
 Other 
 benefits 
Qualified
Non-
 qualified 
Other benefits 
Qualified 
Non-
qualified 
Other 
benefits 
Discount rate (1)
 4.38 %
 4.08 3.75 5.00 4.92 4.75 5.25 5.25 5.25 Expected return on plan assets
 7.50 n/a 6.00 7.50 n/a  
6.00 8.25 n/a 
6.00 (1) The discount rate for the 2013 qualified pension benefits and for the 2013 and 2012 nonqualified pension benefits includes the 
impact of quarter-end remeasurements when 
settlement losses are recognized. 
To account for postretirement health care plans we use health 
care cost trend rates to recognize the effect of expected changes 

in future health care costs due to medical inflation, utilization 

changes, new technology, regulatory requirements and Medicare 

cost shifting. In determining the end of year benefit obligation 

we assume a range of average annual increases of approximately 

6.75% to 8.50%, dependent on plan type, for health care costs in 

2014. These rates are assumed to trend down 0.25% per year 

until the trend rate reaches an ul
timate rate of 5.00% in 2023 to 
2028, dependent on plan type. The 2013 periodic benefit cost 

was determined using initial annual trend rates in the range of 

7.00% to 8.75%, dependent on plan type. These rates were 

assumed to decrease 0.25% per year until they reached ultimate 
rates of 5.00% in 2023 to 2028, dependent on plan type. 

Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage 

point in each year would increase the benefit obligation as of 

December 31, 2013, by $29 million and the total of the interest 
cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost 

for 2013 by $1 million. Decreasing the assumed health care trend 

by one percentage point in each year would decrease the benefit 

obligation as of December 31, 2013, by $26 million and the total 
of the interest cost and service cost components of the net 

periodic benefit cost for 2013 by $1 million. 
Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued) 
Investment Strategy and Asset Allocation 
We seek to achieve the expected 
long-term rate of return with a 
prudent level of risk given the benefit obligations of the pension 
plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy is 

designed to provide our Cash Balance Plan with long-term 

growth opportunities while ensuring that risk is mitigated 

through diversification across numerous asset classes and 

various investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for 

our Cash Balance Plan at a target mix range of 30-50% equities, 

40-60% fixed income, and approximately 10% in real estate, 
venture capital, private equity and other investments. The 

Employee Benefit Review Committee (EBRC), which includes 

several members of senior management, formally reviews the 

investment risk and performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a 

quarterly basis. Annual Plan liability analysis and periodic 

asset/liability evaluations are also conducted. 
Other benefit plan assets include (1) assets held in a 401(h) 
trust, which are invested with a target mix of 40-60% for both 

equities and fixed income, and (2) assets held in the Retiree 

Medical Plan Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association 

(VEBA) trust, which are invested with a general target asset mix 

of 20-40% equities and 60-80% fixed income. In addition, the 

strategy for the VEBA trust assets considers the effect of income 

taxes by utilizing a combination of variable annuity and low 

turnover investment strategies. Members of the EBRC formally 

review the investment risk and performance of these assets on a 

quarterly basis. 
Projected Benefit Payments 
Future benefits that we expect to pay under the pension and 

other benefit plans are presented in the following table. Other 

benefits payments are expected to be reduced by prescription 

drug subsidies from the federal government provided by the 

Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization 

Act of 2003. 
Pension benefits 
Other benefits 
(in millions) 
Qualified 
Non-  
qualified  
Future  
benefits 
Subsidy 
receipts 
Year ended 
December 31, 
2014 $ 768 70 87 13 2015 743 65 89 11 2016 721 64 90 11 2017 719 58 90 11 2018 717 72 90 12 2019-2023
3,321238 425 57 Fair Value of Plan Assets 
The following table presents the balances of pension plan assets 
and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value. See Note 17 

for fair value hierarchy level definitions. 
Carrying value at year end 
Pension plan assets 
Other benefits plan assets 
(in millions) 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
December 31, 2013 
Cash and cash equivalents 
$ 65 
357 -422 147 22 -169 Long duration fixed income 
(1)
546  3,287
1 3,834
----Intermediate (core) fixed income 
(2)
86  339  - 425 64 115 -179 High-yield fixed income
5326 -331 ----International fixed income
 201 112 -313 ----Domestic large-cap stocks 
(3)
 824 415 - 1,239   
-107 -107 Domestic mid-cap stocks
260 145 -405 -46 -46 Domestic small-cap stocks 
(4)
286 15 -301 -38 -38 International stocks 
(5)
540 354 1 895 28 54 -82 Emerging market stocks
-405 -405 ----Real estate/timber 
(6)
89 1 294 384 ----Hedge funds 
(7)
-149 152 301 ----Private equity
--158 158 ----Other
-27 52 79 2 -22 24 Total plan investments 
$  2,902 
 5,932 
658  9,492   
241 382 22 645 Payable upon return of securities loaned
 (94)
 -Net receivables
 11
-Total plan assets 
$ 9,409
 645 
December 31, 2012 
Cash and cash equivalents 
$ -312 -312 164 23 -187 Long duration fixed income (1)
545 3,1241  3,670
----Intermediate (core) fixed income (2) 
71 355 - 426 65 116 -181 High-yield fixed income
5 367
-372 ----International fixed income
 251  112 -363 ----Domestic large-cap stocks (3)
 854
 499
-1,353-102 -102 Domestic mid-cap stocks
 283  158 - 441 -41 -41 Domestic small-cap stocks (4) 
309 15 -324 -30 -30 International stocks (5)
578 341 1 920 28 47 -75 Emerging market stocks
-538 -538 ----Real estate/timber (6)
100 1 328 429 ----Hedge funds (7)
-187 71 258 ----Private equity
--145 145 ----Other-31 48 79 1 -22 23 Total plan investments 
$ 2,996
 6,040 594 9,630 258 359 22 639 Payable upon return of securities loaned 
(112) 
(3) 
Net receivables (payables) 
21 
-Total plan assets 
$ 9,539 
636 (1) This category includes a diversified mix of assets which are being managed in accordance with a duration target of approxim
ately 10 years and an emphasis on corporate 
credit bonds combined with investments in U.S. Treasury securities and other U.S. agency and non-agency bonds. 
(2) This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade bonds held in investment strategie
s benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. 
Aggregate Bond Index. Includes U.S. Treasury securities, ag
ency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds. 
(3) This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as well as style characteristi
cs of value, core and growth emphasized 
strategies. Assets in this category are currently diversified across seven unique investment strategies. For December 31, 2013 
and 2012, respectively, approximately 15% 
and 24% of the assets within this category are passively managed to popular mainstream market indexes including the Standard & 
Poor's 500 Index; excluding the 
allocation to the S&P 500 Index strategy, no single investment manager represents more than 2.5% of total plan assets. 
(4) This category consists of a highly diversified combination of four distinct investment management strategies with no single
 strategy representing more than 2% of total plan 
assets. Allocations in this category are spread across actively managed approaches with distinct value and growth emphasized ap
proaches in fairly equal proportions. 
(5) This category includes assets diversified across six unique investment strategies providing exposure to companies based pri
marily in developed market, non-U.S. countries 
with no single strategy representing more than 2.5% of total plan assets. 
(6) This category primarily includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as timber specific limited partners
hips; real estate holdings are diversified by 
geographic location and sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments). 
(7) This category consists of several investment strategies diversified across more than 30 hedge fund managers. Single manager 
allocation exposure is limited to 0.15% 
(15 basis points) of total plan assets. 
Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued) 
The changes in Level 3 pension plan and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value are summarized as follows: 
(in millions) 
Balance 
beginning  
of year  
Gains (losses) 
Purchases, 
sales 
and  
settlements (net) 
Transfers 
Into/(Out 
of) Level 3 
Balance 
end of 
year  
Realized 
Unrealized (1) 
Year ended December 31, 2013 
Pension plan assets: 
Long duration fixed income 
$ 1--- -1 International stocks
 1----1 Real estate/timber
 328 27 52  (113)
-294 Hedge funds
71 5 6  56 14 152 Private equity
145 19 6  (12)
-158 Other
48 1 5  (2)
-52 Other benefits plan assets: 
$ 594 
52 69  (71)
 14 658 Other 
$ 22
 ---- 22 
Year ended December 31, 2012 
$ 22
 ---- 22 
Pension 
plan 
assets: 
Long duration fixed income 
$ 1 ----1 Intermediate (core) fixed income 
6 ---(6) 
-High-yield fixed income 
1 ---(1) 
-Domestic large-cap stocks
 2 --- (2) 
-International stocks
 1 --1 (1)
 1 Real estate/timber
 355 22 2  (51)
 -328 Hedge funds
 251 1 2 8  (191)
 71 Private equity
 129 8 10  (2)
 -145 Other 46 1 3  (2
) -48 Other benefits plan assets: 
$ 792 
32 17 (46) 
(201) 
594 Real estate/timber 
$ 12
 -- (12)
 --Hedge funds 
8 -- (8) 
--Private equity
 4 -- (4) 
--Other 
23 
--(1) 
-22 
$47 
--(25) 
-22 
(1) All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end. 
VALUATION METHODOLOGIES
  Following is a description of 
the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair 
value.  
Cash and Cash Equivalents Œ includes investments in collective 
investment funds valued at fair value based upon the quoted 

market values of the underlying net assets. The unit price is 

quoted on a private market that is not active; however, the unit 

price is based on underlying investments traded on an active 

market. This group of assets also includes investments in 

registered investment companies valued at the NAV of shares 

held at year end. 
Long Duration, Intermediate (Core), High-Yield, and 
International Fixed Income Œ includes investments traded on 

the secondary markets; prices are measured by using quoted 

market prices for similar securities, pricing models, and 

discounted cash flow analyses using significant inputs 

observable in the market where available, or a combination of 

multiple valuation techniques. This group of assets also includes 
highly liquid government securities such as U.S. Treasuries, and 

registered investment companies and collective investment 

funds described above. 
Domestic, International and Emerging Market Stocks Œ 
investments in exchange-traded equity securities are valued at 

quoted market values. This group of assets also includes 

investments in registered inve
stment companies and collective 
investment funds described above. 
Real Estate and Timber Œ the fair value of real estate and timber 
is estimated based primarily on appraisals prepared by third-

party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual 

market price of the real estate can only be determined by 

negotiation between independent third parties in a sales 

transaction. This group of assets also includes investments in 

exchange-traded equity securities described above. 
Hedge Funds and Private Equity Œ the fair values of hedge funds 
are valued based on the proportionate share of the underlying 
net assets of the investment funds that comprise the fund, based 
on valuations supplied by the underlying investment funds. 

Investments in private equity funds are valued at the NAV 

provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are estimates and 

the actual market price of the investments can only be 

determined by negotiation between independent third parties in 

a sales transaction. 
Other Œ insurance contracts that are generally stated at cash 
surrender value. This group of assets also includes investments 

in collective investment funds and private equity described 

above. 
The methods described above may produce a fair value 
calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or 

reflective of future fair values. While we believe our valuation 

methods are appropriate and consistent with other market 

participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions 

to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could 

result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting 

date. Defined Contribution Retirement Plans 
We sponsor a defined contribution retirement plan named the 

Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan). Under the 

401(k) Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may 

contribute up to 50% of their certified compensation, subject to 

statutory limits. Eligible employees who complete one year of 

service are eligible for company matching contributions, which 

are generally dollar for dollar up to 6% of an employee's eligible 

certified compensation. As of January 1, 2010, matching 

contributions are 100% vested. The 401(k) Plan includes a 

discretionary profit sharing contribution feature to allow us to 

make a contribution to eligible employees™ 401(k) Plan accounts. 

Profit sharing contributions are vested after three years of 

service. Total defined contribution retirement plan expenses 

were $1.2 billion in 2013, and $1
.1 billion in both 2012 and 2011. 
Other Expenses 
Expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and noninterest 

income in any of the years presented that are not otherwise 

shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to 

Financial Statements were: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Outside professional services 
$ 2,519 
2,729 2,692 Outside data processing
 983 910 935 Contract services
 935 1,011 1,407 Travel and entertainment
 885 839 821 Operating losses
 821 2,235 1,261 Postage, stationery and supplies
 756 799 942 Foreclosed assets
 605 1,061 1,354 Note 21:  Income Taxes 
The components of income tax expense were: 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Current: Federal 
$ 4,601 
9,141 3,352 State and local 
736 1,198 468 Foreign
 91 61 52 Total current
 5,428 
10,400 3,872 Deferred: 
Federal
 4,457 
 (1,151)
 3,088 State and local 
522  (166)
 471 Foreign
 (2)
 20 14 Total deferred 
 4,977 
 (1,297)
 3,573 Total 
$ 10,405 
9,103 7,445 The tax effects of our temporary differences that gave rise to 
significant portions of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
presented in the following table. 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Deferred tax assets 
Allowance for loan losses 
$  5,227 
6,192 Deferred compensation 
and employee benefits
 4,283 
4,701 Accrued expenses
 1,247 
1,692 PCI loans  
 2,150 
2,692 Basis difference in investments
 1,084 
1,182 Net operating loss and tax 
credit carry forwards
 773 1,058 Other
 1,720 
1,868 Total deferred tax assets  
 16,484 
19,385 Deferred tax assets valuation allowance
 (457)
 (579) 
Deferred tax liabilities 
Mortgage servicing rights
 (6,657)
 (7,360) 
Leasing  
 (4,274)
 (4,414) 
Mark to market, net  
 (5,761)
 (2,401) 
Intangible assets
 (1,885)
 (2,157) 
Net unrealized gains on 
investment securities
 (1,155)
 (4,135) 
Insurance reserves
 (2,068)
 (1,707) 
Other
 (1,733)
 (1,683) 
Total deferred tax liabilities
 (23,533)
 (23,857) 
Net deferred tax liability (1) 
$  (7,506)
 (5,051) 
(1) Included in accrued expenses and other liabilities. 
Deferred taxes related to net unrealized gains (losses) on 
investment securities, net unrealized gains (losses) on 

derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit 

plan adjustments are recorded in cumulative OCI (see Note 23). 

These associated adjustments increased OCI by $2.5 billion in 

2013. We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for 
2013 in the amount of $457 million predominantly attributable 

to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions 

where we believe it is more likely
 than not that these deferred tax 
assets will not be realized. In these jurisdictions, carry back 

limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning 

strategy limitations contributed to our conclusion that the 

deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We have concluded 

that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax 

assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources 

of taxable income in carry back periods, and our ability to 

implement tax planning strategies. 
At December 31, 2013, we had net operating loss and credit 
carry forwards with related deferred tax assets of $730 million 

and $43 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not 

utilized, they will expire in varying amounts through 2033. 
At December 31, 2013, we had 
undistributed foreign earnings 
of $1.6 billion related to foreign subsidiaries. We intend to 

reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and 

accordingly have not provided $450 million of income tax 

liability on these earnings. 
The following table reconciles the statutory federal income 
tax expense and rate to the effective income tax expense and 

rate. Our effective tax rate is ca
lculated by dividing income tax 
expense by income before income tax expense less the net 

income from noncontrolling interests. 
December 31,
 2013 
2012 2011  (in millions) 
Amount 
Rate 
Amount 
Rate 
Amount 
Rate 
Statutory federal income tax expense and rate 
$ 11,299 
 35.0 % 
$ 9,800 35.0 % 
$ 8,160 
35.0 % Change in tax rate resulting from: 
State and local taxes on income, net of 
federal income tax benefit
964 3.0 856 3.1 730 3.1 Tax-exempt interest
 (490)
 (1.5)
 (414) 
 (1.5) 
 (334) 
 (1.4) 
Excludable dividends
 (49)
 (0.2)
 (132) 
 (0.5) 
 (247) 
 (1.1) 
Tax credits  
 (967)
 (3.0)
 (815) 
 (2.9) 
 (735) 
 (3.2) 
Life insurance
 (173)
 (0.5)
 (524) 
 (1.9) 
 (222) 
 (1.0) 
Leveraged lease tax expense
302 0.9 347 1.2 272 1.2 Other
 (481)
 (1.5) 
(15) 
-(179) 
(0.7) 
Effective income tax expense and rate 
$ 10,405 
 32.2 % 
$ 9,103 32.5 % 
$ 7,445 
31.9 % The effective tax rate for 2013, included a net reduction in the 
reserve for uncertain tax positions primarily due to settlements 
with authorities regarding certain cross border transactions and 

tax benefits recognized from the realization for tax purposes of a 

previously written down investment. The 2012 effective tax rate 

included a tax benefit resulting from the surrender of previously 

written-down Wachovia life insurance investments. The 2011 

effective tax rate included a decrease in tax expense associated 

with leverage leases, as well as tax benefits related to charitable 

donations of appreciated securities. 
The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows: 
Year ended 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Balance at beginning of year  
$  6,069 
5,005 Additions:  
For tax positions related to the current year 
427 877 For tax positions related to prior years 
283 491 Reductions: 
For tax positions related to prior years 
 (540)
 (114) 
Lapse of statute of limitations
 (74)
 (23) 
Settlements with tax authorities
 (637)
 (167) 
Balance at end of year 
$  5,528 
6,069 Of the $5.5 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at 
December 31, 2013, approximately $3.7 billion would, if 

recognized, affect the effective tax rate. The remaining 

$1.8 billion of unrecognized tax 
benefits relates to income tax 
positions on temporary differences. 
We recognize interest and penalties as a component of 
income tax expense. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we have 

accrued approximately $832 million and $1.0 billion for the 

payment of interest and penalties, respectively. We recognized in 

income tax expense in 2013 and 2012, interest and penalties of 

$69 million and $92 million, respectively. 
We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income 
tax in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely 

examined by tax authorities in th
ese various jurisdictions. The 
IRS is currently examining the 2007 through 2012 consolidated 

federal income tax returns of 
Wells Fargo & Company and its 
subsidiaries. In addition, we are currently subject to examination 

by various state, local and foreign taxing authorities. With few 

exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to 

federal, state, local and foreign income tax examinations for 

taxable years prior to 2007. Wachovia Corporation and its 

subsidiaries are no longer subject to federal examination and, 

with limited exception, are no longer subject to state, local, and 

foreign income tax examinations. 
We are litigating or appealing various issues related to our 
prior IRS examinations for the periods 1999 and 2003 through 

2006, and we are appealing various issues related to IRS 

examinations of Wachovia™s 2003 through 2008 tax years. We 

have paid the IRS the contested income tax and interest 

associated with these issues and refund claims have been filed 

for the respective years. On August 22, 2013, the U.S. Court of 

Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the adverse decision of 

the trial court in our lease restructuring transaction and on 

October 29, 2013, the Eighth Circuit denied our petition for 

rehearing. We are considering wh
ether to file a petition for 
certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. It is possible that one or 

more of these examinations, appeals or litigation may be 

resolved within the next twelve months resulting in a decrease of 

up to $1.5 billion to our gross unrecognized tax benefits. 
Note 22:  Earnings Per Common Share 
The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted 
earnings per common share and reconciles the numerator and 

denominator of both earnings per common share calculations.  

See Note 1 for discussion of private share repurchases and the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Note 19 for 

information about stock and options activity and terms and 

conditions of warrants. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions, except per share amounts) 
2013 
2012 2011 Wells Fargo net income 
$  21,878 
18,897 15,869 Less: Preferred stock dividends and other
 989 898 844 Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock (numerator) 
$  20,889 
17,999 15,025 Earnings per common share 
Average common shares outstanding (denominator)
 5,287.3 
5,287.6 5,278.1 Per share 
$ 3.95 3.40 2.85 Diluted earnings per common share 
Average common shares outstanding
 5,287.3 
5,287.6 5,278.1 Add: Stock Options
 33.1 27.5 24.2 Restricted share rights
 44.8 36.4 21.1 Warrants
 6.0 --Diluted average common shares outstanding (denominator)
 5,371.2 
5,351.5 5,323.4Per share 
$ 3.89 3.36 2.82The following table presents the outstanding options and 
warrants to purchase shares of common stock that were anti-
dilutive (the exercise price was higher than the weighted-average 

market price), and therefore not included in the calculation of 

diluted earnings per common share. 
Weighted-average shares 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
2013 
2012 2011 Options
 11.1 56.4 198.8 Warrants
 -39.2 39.4 Note 23: Other Comprehensive Income 
The components of other comprehensive income (OCI), reclassifica
tions to net income by income statement line item, and the rela
ted tax effects were: 
Year ended December 31,
 2013 
2012 2011 (in millions) 
Before 
tax 
Tax effect 
 Net of 
tax 
Before  
tax Tax effect 
Net of 
tax Before  
tax Tax effect 
Net of 
tax Investment securities: 
Net unrealized gains (losses) 
arising during the period (1) 
$ (7,661)
 2,981 
(4,680)
 5,143 (1,921)
 3,222 (588)
 359  (229) 
Reclassification of net (gains) losses 
to net income: 
Net (gains) losses on debt securities
 29  (11) 
18 128  (48)
 80  (54)
 20
 (34) 
Net gains from equity investments 
 (314)
 118 (196)
 (399)
 150  (249)
 (642)
 242  (400) 
Subtotal reclassifications 
to net income
 (285)
 107  (178)
 (271)
 102  (169)
 (696)
 262  (434) 
Net change
 (7,946)
 3,088 
 (4,858)
 4,872 (1,819)
 3,053 (1,284)
 621  (663) 
Derivatives and hedging activities: 
Net unrealized gains (losses) 
arising during the period
 (32)
 12 (20)
 52  (12)
 40 190  (85)
 105 Reclassification of net (gains) losses 
to net income: 
Interest income on loans 
 (426)
 156 (270)
 (490)
 185  (305)
 (686)
 259  (427) 
Interest expense on long-term debt 
91  (34) 
57 96  (36)
 60 115  (42)
 73 Noninterest income
 35  (13) 
22 ------Salaries expense
 4  (2) 
2 6  (2)
 4 ---Subtotal reclassifications 
to net income
 (296)
 107  (189)
 (388)
 147  (241)
 (571)
 217  (354) 
Net change
 (328)
 119  (209)
 (336)
 135  (201)
 (381)
 132  (249) 
Defined benefit plans adjustments: 
Net actuarial gains (losses) 
arising during the period
 1,533 
 (578)
 955  (775)
 290  (485)
 (1,079)
 411  (668) 
Reclassification of amounts to net periodic 
benefit costs (2): 
Amortization of net actuarial loss
 151  (57) 
94 141  (53)
 88
 92  (35)
 57 Settlements and other 
125  (46) 
79 3  (1)
 2 7 (3) 
4 Subtotal reclassifications 
to net periodic benefit costs 
276  (103)
 173 144  (54)
 90
 99  (38)
 61 Net change
 1,809 
 (681)
 1,128 
 (631)
 236  (395)
 (980)
 373  (607) 
Foreign currency translation adjustments: 
Net unrealized losses 
arising during the period
 (44)
 (7)
 (51)
 (6)
 2 (4)
 (37)
 13
 (24) 
Reclassification of net gains 
to net income: 
Noninterest income
 (12)
 5  (7)
 (10)
 4 (6) 
---Net change
 (56)
 (2)
 (58)
 (16)
 6 (10)
 (37)
 13
 (24) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
$ (6,521)
 2,524 
 (3,997)
 3,889 (1,442)
 2,447 (2,682)
 1,139 (1,543) 
Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) from 
noncontrolling interests, net of tax
 267 4 (12) 
Wells Fargo other comprehensive 
income (loss), net of tax 
$  (4,264) 
2,443 (1,531) 
(1) December 31, 2013, includes $46 million in unrealized gains (pre-tax) related to available-for-sale securities that were transf
erred to the held-to-maturity portfolio. 
(2) These items are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost, which is recorded in employee benefits expense (s
ee Note 20 for additional details). 
Note 23:  Other Comprehensive Income 
(continued) 
Cumulative OCI balances were: 
(in millions) 
Investment 
securities 
Derivatives  
and hedging
activities
 Defined 
 benefit 
 plans 
 adjustments 
Foreign  
currency
translation  
adjustments  
 Cumulative 
 other 
 compre
-- hensive 
 income 
Balance, December 31, 2010 
$ 5,066 739 (1,179) 
112 4,738 Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period
 (229) 
105 (668) 
(24) 
(816) 
Amounts reclassified to net income 
 (434) 
(354) 
61 -(727) 
Net change 
(663) 
(249) 
(607) 
(24) 
(1,543) 
Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) 
from noncontrolling interests 
(10) 
--(2) 
(12) 
Balance, December 31, 2011
 4,413 490 (1,786) 
90 3,207 Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period
 3,222 40 (485) 
(4) 
2,773 Amounts reclassified to net income 
 (169) 
(241) 
90 (6) 
(326) 
Net change 
3,053 (201) 
(395) 
(10) 
2,447 Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) 
from noncontrolling interests 
4 ---4 Balance, December 31, 2012
 7,462 289 (2,181) 
80 5,650 Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period
 (4,680)
 (20)
 955  (51)
 (3,796) 
Amounts reclassified to net income
 (178)
 (189)
 173  (7)
 (201)
 Net change 
(4,858)
 (209)
 1,128 
 (58)
 (3,997) 
Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) 
from noncontro
lling interests
 266 --1 267 Balance, December 31, 2013 
$  2,338 
80  (1,053)
 21  1,386 
Note 24:  Operating Segments 
We have three reportable operating segments: Community 
Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and 

Retirement. The results for these operating segments are based 

on our management accounting process, for which there is no 

comprehensive, authoritative guidance equivalent to GAAP for 

financial accounting. The management accounting process 

measures the performance of the operating segments based on 

our management structure and is not necessarily comparable 

with similar information for other financial services companies. 

We define our operating segments by product type and customer 

segment. If the management st
ructure and/or the allocation 
process changes, allocations, transfers and assignments may 

change. 
Community Banking 
offers a complete line of diversified 
financial products and services to consumers and small 
businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in 

which the owner generally is the financial decision maker. 

Community Banking also offers investment management and 

other services to retail customers and securities brokerage 

through affiliates. These products and services include the 

Wells Fargo Advantage Funds
SM, a family of mutual funds. Loan 
products include lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines 

and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education loans, 

origination and purchase of residential mortgage loans and 

servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit 

products and financial services available to small businesses and 

their owners include equipment leases, real estate and other 

commercial financing, Small Business Administration financing, 

venture capital financing, cash management, payroll services, 

retirement plans, Health Saving
s Accounts, credit cards, and 
merchant payment processing. Community Banking also offers 

private label financing solutions for retail merchants across the 

United States and purchases retail installment contracts from 

auto dealers in the United States and Puerto Rico. Consumer and 

business deposit products include checking accounts, savings 

deposits, market rate accounts, 
Individual Retirement Accounts, 
time deposits, global remittance and debit cards. 
Community Banking serves customers through a complete 
range of channels, including traditional banking stores, in-store 
banking centers, business centers, ATMs, Online and Mobile 

Banking, and Wells Fargo Customer Connection,
 a 24-hours a 
day, seven days a week telephone service. 
Wholesale Banking
 provides financial solutions to businesses 
across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of 
$20 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale 

Banking provides a complete line of commercial, corporate, 

capital markets, cash management and real estate banking 

products and services. These include traditional commercial 

loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, 

equipment leasing, international trade facilities, trade financing, 

collection services, foreign exchange services, treasury 

management, investment mana
gement, institutional fixed-
income sales, interest ra
te, commodity and equity risk 
management, online/electronic products such as the 
Commercial Electronic Office
® (CEO®) portal, insurance, 
corporate trust fiduciary and agency services, and investment 

banking services. Wholesale Banking manages customer 

investments through institutional separate accounts and mutual 

funds, including the Wells Fargo Advantage Funds and Wells 

Capital Management. Wholesale Banking also supports the CRE 

market with products and services such as construction loans for 

commercial and residential development, land acquisition and 

development loans, secured and unsecured lines of credit, 

interim financing arrangements for completed structures, 

rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of 

credit, permanent loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing 

and real estate and mortgage brokerage services. 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
 provides a full range of 
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach 

to meet each client's financial needs. Wealth Management 

provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete 

range of wealth management solutions, including financial 

planning, private banking, cred
it, investment management and 

fiduciary services. Abbot Downing, a Wells Fargo business, 

provides comprehensive wealth management services to ultra 

high net worth families and individuals as well as endowments 

and foundations. Brokerage serves customers' advisory, 

brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-

service brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a 

national leader in providing in
stitutional retirement and trust 
services (including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for 

businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and 

reinsurance services for the life insurance industry. 
Other
 includes corporate items not specific to a business 
segment and elimination of certain items that are included in 

more than one business segment, substantially all of which 

represents products and services for wealth management 

customers provided in Community Banking stores. 
Note 24:  Operating Segments 
(continued) 
(income/expense in millions, average balances in billions) 
Community 
Banking 
Wholesale  
Banking   
Wealth, 
Brokerage 
and Retirement 
Other (1) 
Consolidated 
Company 
2013 
Net interest income 
(2) 
$  28,839 
 12,298 
 2,888 
 (1,225)
 42,800 
Provision (reversal of provision) for credit losses
 2,755 
 (445)
 (16)
 15  2,309 
Noninterest income
 21,500 
 11,766 
 10,315 
 (2,601)
 40,980 
Noninterest expense
 28,723 
 12,378 
 10,455 
 (2,714)
 48,842 
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
 18,861
 12,131
 2,764
 (1,127) 
 32,629 
Income tax expense (benefit)
 5,799 
 3,984 
 1,050 
 (428)
 10,405 
Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests
 13,062 
 8,147 
 1,714 
 (699)
 22,224 
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
 330 14 2 -346 Net income (loss) 
(3) 
$  12,732 
 8,133 
 1,712 
 (699)
 21,878 
2012 Net interest income (2) 
$ 29,045 
12,648 2,768 (1,231) 
43,230 Provision (reversal of provision) for credit losses 
6,835 286 125  (29)
 7,217 Noninterest income 
24,360 11,444 9,392 (2,340)
 42,856 Noninterest expense 
30,840 12,082 9,893 (2,417)
 50,398 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
15,730 11,724 2,142 (1,125)
 28,471 Income tax expense (benefit) 
4,774 3,943 814  (428)
 9,103 Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests 
10,956 7,781 1,328 (697)
 19,368 Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
464 7 --471 Net income (loss) (3) 
$ 10,492
 7,774 1,328 (697)
 18,897 2011 
Net interest income (2) 
$ 29,657 
11,616 2,844 (1,354) 
42,763 Provision (reversal of provision) for credit losses 
7,976 (110)
 170  (137)
 7,899 Noninterest income 
21,124 9,952 9,333 (2,224)
 38,185 Noninterest expense 
29,252 11,177 9,934 (970)
 49,393 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
13,553 10,501 2,073 (2,471)
 23,656 Income tax expense (benefit) 
4,104 3,495 785  (939)
 7,445 Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests 
9,449 7,006 1,288 (1,532)
 16,211 Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
316 19 7 -342 Net income (loss) (3) 
$ 9,133
 6,987 1,281 (1,532)
 15,869 2013 
Average loans 
$  499.3 
 290.0 
46.1  (30.4)
 805.0 
Average assets
 835.4 
 502.3 
 180.9 
 (70.3)
 1,448.3 
Average core deposits
 620.1 
 237.2 
 150.1 
 (65.3)
 942.1 
2012 Average loans 
$ 487.1
 273.8 42.7 (28.4)
 775.2 Average assets 
761.1 481.7 164.6 (65.8)
 1,341.6 Average core deposits 
591.2 227.0 137.5 (61.8)
 893.9 (1) Includes corporate items not specific to a business segment and the elimination of certain items that are included in more than
 one business segment, substantially all of 
which represents products and services for wealth management customers provided in Community Banking stores. 
(2) Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of liabilities to fund those assets. Inter
est earned includes actual interest earned on 
segment assets and, if the segment has excess liabilities, interest credits for providing funding to other segments. The cost o
f liabilities includes interest expense on segment 
liabilities and, if the segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of exce
ss liabilities from another segment. 
(3) Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement segments an
d Wells Fargo net income for the 
consolidated company. 
Note 25: Parent-Only Financial Statements 
The following tables present Parent-only condensed financial 
statements. 
Parent-Only Statement of Income 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Income 
Dividends from subsidiaries: 
Bank $  10,612 
11,767 11,546 Nonbank
 33 1,150 140 Interest income from subsidiaries
 848 897 914 Other interest income
 240 222 242 Other income
 484 267 460 Total income
 12,217 
14,303 13,302 Expense 
Interest expense: 
Indebtedness to nonbank subsidiaries
 334 287 254 Short-term borrowings
 5 1 1 Long-term debt
 1,546 
1,877 2,423 Other 15 23 8 Noninterest expense
 1,175 
1,127 77 Total expense 
 3,075 
3,315 2,763 Income before income tax benefit and 
equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 
9,142 
10,988 10,539 Income tax benefit
 (570)
 (903)
 (584) 
Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
 12,166 
7,006 4,746 Net income 
$ 21,878 
18,897 15,869 Note 25:  Parent-Only Financial Statements 
(continued) 
Parent-Only Statement of Comprehensive Income 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Net income 
$ 21,878 
18,897 15,869 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: 
Investment securities
 (248)
 61 (50) 
Derivatives and hedging activities
 39 31 (1) 
Defined benefit plans adjustment
 1,136 
 (379) 
(650) 
Equity in other comprehensive income (loss) of subsidiaries
 (5,191)
2,730 (830) 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
 (4,264)
 2,443 (1,531) 
Total comprehensive income 
$  17,614 
21,340 14,338 Parent-Only Balance Sheet 
December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 Assets 
Cash and cash equivalents due from: 
Subsidiary banks 
$  42,386 
35,697 Nonaffiliates
3 5 Investment securities
 11,652 
7,268 Loans to subsidiaries: 
Bank 7,140 
-Nonbank
 38,504 
41,068 Investments in subsidiaries: 
Bank 154,577 
148,693 Nonbank
 21,852 
19,492 Other assets
 7,329 
7,880 Total assets 
$  283,443 
260,103 Liabilities and equity 

Short-term borrowings 
$  5,121 
1,592 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
 7,241 
8,332 Long-term debt
 81,721 
76,233 Indebtedness to nonbank subsidiaries
 19,218 
16,392 Total liabilities
 113,301 
102,549 Stockholders' equity
 170,142 
157,554 Total liabilities and equity 
$  283,443 
260,103 Parent-Only Statement of Cash Flows 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)
 2013 
2012 2011 Cash flows from operating activities: 
Net cash provided by operating activities 
$  8,607 
13,365 15,049 Cash flows from investing activities: 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Sales proceeds
 3,606 
 6,171 11,459 Prepayments and maturities
12 30 -Purchases
 (6,016)
 (5,845) 
(16,487) 
Loans: 
Net repayments from subsidiaries
655 9,191 1,318 Capital notes and term loans made to subsidiaries
 (6,700)
 (1,850) 
(1,340) 
Principal collected on notes/loans made to subsidiaries
 1,472 
2,462 5,779 Net increase in investment in subsidiaries
 (1,188)
 (5,218) 
(610) 
Other, net  
 461  (2) 
230 Net cash provided (used) by investing activities
 (7,698)
 4,939 349 Cash flows from financing activities: 
Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings and 
indebtedness to subsidiaries
 6,732 
 5,456 (242) 
Long-term debt: 
Proceeds from issuance
 18,714 
16,989 7,058 Repayment
 (13,096)
 (18,693) 
(31,198) 
Preferred stock: 
Proceeds from issuance
 3,145 
1,377 2,501 Cash dividends paid
 (1,017)
 (892) 
(844) 
Common stock warrants repurchased 
 - (1) 
(2) 
Common stock: 
Proceeds from issuance
 2,224 
2,091 1,296 Repurchased
 (5,356)
 (3,918) 
(2,416) 
Cash dividends paid
 (5,953)
 (4,565) 
(2,537) 
Excess tax benefits related to stock option payments
 271 226 79 Other, net  
114  (14) 
-Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
 5,778 
 (1,944) 
(26,305) 
Net change in cash and due from banks 
6,687 
16,360 (10,907) 
Cash and due from banks at beginning of year
 35,702 
19,342 30,249 Cash and due from banks at end of year 
$ 42,389 
35,702 19,342 Note 26:  Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements 
The Company and each of its subsidiary banks are subject to 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements promulgated by 

federal regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes 

capital requirements, including we
ll capitalized standards, for 
the consolidated financial holding company, and the OCC has 

similar requirements for the Company™s national banks, 

including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the Bank). 
We do not consolidate our wholly-owned trust (the Trust) 
formed solely to issue trust preferred and preferred purchase 

securities (the Securities). Securities issued by the Trust 

includable in Tier 1 capital were $2.1 billion at 

December 31, 2013. During first quarter 2013, we redeemed 
$2.8 billion of trust preferred securities. Under applicable 

regulatory capital guidelines issued by bank regulatory agencies, 

upon notice of redemption, the redeemed trust preferred 

securities no longer qualify as Tier 1 Capital for the Company. 

This redemption was in connection with the Capital Plan the 

Company submitted to the Fede
ral Reserve Board in 2012. 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Company implemented 
changes to the market risk capital rule, commonly referred to as 

Basel 2.5, as required by U.S. banking regulators. Basel 2.5 
requires banking organizations with significant trading activities 

to adjust their capital requirements to better account for the 

market risks of those activities. The market risk capital rule is 

reflected in the Company™s calculation of risk-weighted assets 

and upon initial adoption in first quarter 2013, negatively 

impacted capital ratios under Basel I by approximately 25 basis 

points, but did not impact our ratio under Basel III, as its impact 

has historically been included in our calculations. 
The Bank is an approved seller/servicer, and is required to 
maintain minimum levels of shareholders™ equity, as specified by 

various agencies, including the United States Department of 

Housing and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. 

At December 31, 2013, the Bank met these requirements. Other 

subsidiaries, including the Company™s insurance and broker-

dealer subsidiaries, are also subject to various minimum capital 

levels, as defined by applicable industry regulations.  The 

minimum capital levels for these subsidiaries, and related 

restrictions, are not significant to our consolidated operations. 
The following table presents regulatory capital information 
for Wells Fargo & Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
Wells Fargo & Company 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
December 31, 
(in billions, except ratios)
 2013 
2012  2013 
2012 Well-
capitalized 
ratios (1) 
Minimum 
capital 
ratios (1) 
Regulatory capital: 
Tier 1 
$ 140.7   
126.6 110.0 
101.3 Total 
 176.2   
157.6 136.4 
124.8 Assets: 
Risk-weighted 
$ 1,141.5   
1,077.1 1,057.3 
1,002.0 Adjusted average (2) 
 1,466.7   
 1,336.4 1,324.0 
1,195.9 Capital ratios: 
Tier 1 capital 
 12.33 %
11.75 10.40 
10.11 6.00 4.00 Total capital 
 15.43
 14.63 12.90
12.4510.008.00 Tier 1 leverage (2)
 9.60  9.47 8.31  8.47 5.004.00 (1) As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. 
(2) The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding goodwill and certain other i
tems. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 
3% for banking organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk, excellent asset qua
lity, high liquidity, good earnings, effective 
management and monitoring of market risk and, in general, are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations. 
                         
     
 
 
   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders 

Wells Fargo & Company: 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsid
iaries (the Company) as of 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cas
h 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013. These consolidated financial statements are the 

responsibility of the Company's management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opin
ion on these consolidated financial stateme
nts 
based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of th
e Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Thos
e standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are 
free of 
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the fin
ancial 
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting prin
ciples used and significant estimates made by management, as we
ll as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred 
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
 position of 
the Company as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the
 three-
year period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of th
e Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
 December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control Œ 
Integrated Framework (1992)
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our 
report dated February 26, 2014, expressed an
 unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over fi
nancial reporting. 
San Francisco, California 
February 26, 2014 
Quarterly Financial Data 
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income - Quarterly (Unaudited)
 2013 
Quarter ended
2012  Quarter ended 
(in millions, except per share amounts) 
Dec. 31 
Sept. 30 
June 30 
Mar. 31 Dec. 31 
Sept. 30 June 30 
Mar. 31 Interest income 
$  11,836 
 11,776 
 11,827 
 11,650   
11,85711,92512,35412,255 Interest expense
 1,033 
 1,028 
 1,077 
 1,151 
1,214 1,263 1,317 1,367 Net interest income
 10,803 
 10,748 
 10,750 
 10,499 
10,643 10,662 11,037 10,888 Provision for credit losses
 363 75 652  1,219 
1,831 1,591 1,800 1,995 Net interest income after provision for credit 
losses
 10,440 
 10,673 
 10,098 
 9,280 
8,812 9,071 9,237 8,893 Noninterest income 
Service charges on deposit accounts
 1,283 
 1,278 
 1,248 
 1,214 
1,250 1,210 1,139 1,084 Trust and investment fees
 3,458 
 3,276 
 3,494 
 3,202 
3,199 2,954 2,898 2,839 Card fees
 827 813 813 738 736 744 704 654 Other fees
 1,119 
 1,098 
 1,089 
 1,034 
1,193 1,097 1,134 1,095 Mortgage banking
 1,570 
 1,608 
 2,802 
 2,794 
3,068 2,807 2,893 2,870 Insurance
 453 413 485 463 395 414 522 519 Net gains from trading activities
 325 397 331 570 275 529 263 640 Net gains (losses) on debt securities
 (14)
 (6)
 (54)
 45  (63)
 3 (61)
 (7) 
Net gains from equity investments
 654 502 203 113 715 164 242 364 Lease income
 148 160 225 130 170 218 120 59 Other 39 191  (8)
 457 367 411 398 631 Total noninterest income
 9,862 
 9,730 
 10,628 
 10,760 
11,305 10,551 10,252 10,748 Noninterest expense 

Salaries
 3,811 
 3,910 
 3,768 
 3,663 
3,735 3,648 3,705 3,601 Commission and incentive compensation
 2,347 
 2,401 
 2,626 
 2,577 
2,365 2,368 2,354 2,417 Employee benefits
 1,160 
 1,172 
 1,118 
 1,583 
891 1,063 1,049 1,608 Equipment
 567 471 418 528 542 510 459 557 Net occupancy
 732 728 716 719 728 727 698 704 Core deposit and other intangibles
 375 375 377 377 418 419 418 419 FDIC and other deposit assessments 
196 214 259 292 307 359 333 357 Other 2,897 
 2,831 
 2,973 
 2,661 
3,910 3,018 3,381 3,330 Total noninterest expense
 12,085 
 12,102 
 12,255 
 12,400 
12,896 12,112 12,397 12,993 Income before income tax expense
 8,217 
 8,301 
 8,471 
 7,640 
7,221 7,510 7,092 6,648 Income tax expense
 2,504 
 2,618 
 2,863 
 2,420 
1,924 2,480 2,371 2,328 Net income before 
noncontrolling interests
 5,713
 5,683
 5,608
 5,220
 5,297 5,030 4,721 4,320 Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests
 103 105 89 49 207 93 99 72 Wells Fargo net income 
$ 5,610 
 5,578 
 5,519 
 5,171 
5,090 4,937 4,622 4,248 Less: Preferred stock dividends and other
 241 261 247 240 233 220 219 226 Wells Fargo net income 
applicable to common stock 
$  5,369 
 5,317 
 5,272 
 4,931 
4,857 4,717 4,403 4,022 Per share information 
Earnings per common share 
$ 1.02 1.00 1.00 0.93 0.92 0.89 0.83 0.76 Diluted earnings per common share
 1.00 0.99 0.98 0.92 0.91 0.88 0.82 0.75 Dividends declared per common share
 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.25 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 Average common shares outstanding
 5,270.3 
 5,295.3 
 5,304.7 
 5,279.0 
5,272.4 5,288.1 5,306.9 5,282.6 Diluted average common shares outstanding
 5,358.6 
 5,381.7 
 5,384.6 
 5,353.5 
5,338.7 5,355.6 5,369.9 5,337.8 Market price per common share (1) 
High 
$ 45.64
 44.79
 41.74
 38.20
 36.34 36.60 34.59 34.59 Low
 40.07
 40.79
 36.19
 34.43
 31.25 32.62 29.80 27.94 Quarter-end
 45.40
 41.32
 41.27
 36.99
 34.18 34.53 33.44 34.14 (1) Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 
Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) - Quarterly 
(1) (2) - (Unaudited) 
Quarter ended December 31,
 2013
 2012 (in millions) 
Avera
ge 
balance 
Yields/ rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
Avera
ge 
balance 
Yields/ 
rates 
Interest 
income/ 
expense 
Earning assets 
Federal funds sold, securities purchased under 
resale agreements and other short-term investments 
$ 205,276 
 0.28 % 
$ 148 
 117,047
 0.41 
% $ 121 
Trading assets
 45,379 
 3.40 
386  42,005
 3.28 
345 Investment securities (3): 
Available-for-sale securities: 
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
 6,611 
 1.67 
27  5,281 
 1.64 
22 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions
 42,025 
 4.38 
460  36,391
 4.64 
422 Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies
 117,910 
 2.94 
866  90,898
 2.71 
617 Residential and commercial
 29,233 
 6.35 
464  32,669
 6.53 
533 Total mort
gag
e-backed securities
 147,143 
 3.62 
 1,330 
 123,567
 3.72 
 1,150 
Other debt and equity securities
 55,325 
 3.43 
478  50,025
 3.91 
490 Total available-for-sale securities
 251,104 
 3.65 
 2,295 
 215,264
 3.87 
 2,084 
Held-to-maturity securities (4)
 2,845 
 3.09 
22 ---Mortgages held for sale (5)
 21,396 
 4.13 
221  47,241
 3.50 
413 Loans held for sale (5)
138  8.21 
3  135  9.03 
3 Loans: 
Commercial: 
Commercial and industrial
 193,211 
 3.48 
 1,696 
 179,493
 3.85 
 1,736 
Real estate mortgage
 105,795 
 3.85 
 1,026 
 105,107
 4.02 
 1,061 
Real estate construction
 16,579 
 4.79 
200  17,502
 4.97 
218 Lease financing
 11,744 
 5.70 
167  12,461
 6.43 
201 Foreign
 46,682 
 2.23 
262  39,665
 2.32 
231 Total commercial
 374,011 
 3.56 
 3,351 
 354,228
 3.87 
 3,447 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage
 257,253 
 4.15 
 2,673 
 244,634
 4.39 
 2,686 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage
 66,774 
 4.29 
721  76,908
 4.28 
826 Credit card
 25,854 
 12.23
 797  23,839
 12.43 
745 Automobile
 50,213 
 6.70 
849  45,957
 7.34 
848 Other revolving credit and installment
 42,564 
 4.94 
529  41,644
 4.63 
485 Total consumer
 442,658 
 5.01 
 5,569 
 432,982
 5.15 
 5,590 
Total loans (5)
 816,669 
 4.35 
 8,920 
 787,210
 9,037 
Other 
 4,728 
 5.22 
61  4,280 
 4.58 
 5.21 
56 Total earnin
g assets 
$ 1,347,535 
 3.56 % 
$  12,056 
 1,213,182 
 3.96 % 
$  12,059 
Fundin
g sources 
Deposits: 
Interest-bearin
g checkin
g $ 35,171 
 0.07 % 
$ 6  30,858
 0.06 % 
$ 5 Market rate and other savings 
 568,750 
 0.08 
110  518,593
 0.10 
135 Savin
gs certificates
 43,067 
 0.94 
102  56,743
 1.27 
181 Other time deposits
 39,700 
 0.48 
47  13,612
 1.51 
51 Deposits in forei
gn offices
 86,333 
 0.15 
32  69,398
 0.15 
27 Total interest-bearing deposits
 773,021 
 0.15 
297  689,204
 0.23 
399 Short-term borrowings
 52,286 
 0.12 
15  52,820
 0.21 
28 Long-term debt
 153,470 
 1.65 
635  127,505
 2.30 
735 Other liabilities
 12,822 
 2.70 
87  9,975 
 2.27 
56 Total interest-bearin
g liabilities
 991,599 
 0.42 
 1,034 
 879,504
 0.55 
 1,218 
Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources
 355,936 
-- 333,678
 --Total funding sources 
$ 1,347,535 
 0.30 
 1,034 
 1,213,182 
 0.40 
1,218 
Net interest margin and net interest income on 
a taxable-equivalent basis (6)
 3.26 % 
$  11,022 
 3.56 
% $ 10,841 
Noninterest-earning assets 

Cash and due from banks 
$ 15,998 
 16,361 
Goodwill 
 25,637 
 25,637 
Other 
 119,947   
 131,876 
Total noninterest-earnin
g assets 
$ 161,582   
 173,874 
Noninterest-bearin
g fundin
g sources 
Deposits 
$ 287,379   
 286,924 
Other liabilities
 60,489 
 63,025 
Total equity
 169,650   
 157,603 
Noninterest-bearin
g fundin
g sources used to fund earnin
g assets 
(355,936
) (333,678
) Net noninterest-bearing funding sources 
$ 161,582   
 173,874 
Total assets 
$  1,509,117 
 1,387,056 
(1)Our average prime rate was 3.25% for the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. The average three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was 0.24% 
and 0.32% for the same quarters, respectively. 
(2)Yields/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and l
iability categories. 
(3)Yields and rates are based on interest income/expense amounts for the period, annualized based on the accrual basis for the res
pective accounts. The average balance 
amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented. 
(4)Includes $6.3 billion of federal agency mortgage-backed securities purchased during the fourth quarter of 2013 and $6.0 billion
 of auto asset-backed securities that were 
transferred near the end of 2013 from the available-for-sale portfolio. 
(5)Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 
(6)Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of $219 million and $198 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, res
pectively primarily related to tax-
exempt income on certain loans and securities. The federal statutory tax rate was 35% for the periods presented. 
Glossary of Acronyms ACL Allowance for credit losses 
ALCO Asset/Liability Management Committee 
ARM 
Adjustable-rate mortgage 
ARS 
Auction rate security 
ASC 
Accounting Standards Codification 
ASU 
Accounting Standards Update 
AVM Automated valuation model 
BCBS Basel Committee on Bank Supervision 
BHC 
Bank holding company 
CCAR Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
CD Certificate of deposit 
CDO Collateralized debt obligation 
CDS Credit default swaps 
CLO Collateralized loan obligation 
CLTV Combined loan-to-value 
CPP Capital Purchase Program 
CPR Constant prepayment rate 
CRE 
Commercial real estate 
DOJ United States Department of Justice 
DPD Days past due 
ESOP 
Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
FAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
FASB 
Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FFELP 
Federal Family Education Loan Program 
FHA Federal Housing Administration 
FHFA Federal Housing Finance Agency 
FHLB Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
FNMA 
Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
FSB 
Financial Stability Board 
FTC Federal Trade Commission 
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles 
GNMA 
Government National Mortgage Association 
GSE 
Government-sponsored entity 
G-SIB 
Globally systemic important bank 
HAMP 
Home Affordability Modification Program 
HPI Home Price Index 
HUD 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
LHFS Loans held for sale 
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate 
LIHTC Low-Income Housing Tax Credit 
LOCOM 
Lower of cost or market value 
LTV Loan-to-value 
MBS Mortgage-backed security 
MHA 
Making Home Affordable programs 
MHFS 
Mortgages held for sale 
MSR 
Mortgage servicing right 
MTN Medium-term note 
NAV 
Net asset value 
NPA Nonperforming asset 
OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
OCI Other comprehensive income 
OTC Over-the-counter 
OTTI Other-than-temporary impairment 
PCI Loans 
Purchased credit-impaired loans 
PTPP Pre-tax pre-provision profit 
RBC 
Risk-based capital 
ROA 
Wells Fargo net income to average total assets 
ROE 
Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock 
to average Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity 
RWA Risk-weighted assets 
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission 
S&P 
Standard & Poor™s Ratings Services 
SPE 
Special purpose entity 
TARP 
Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TDR Troubled debt restructuring 
VA Department of Veterans Affairs 
VaR Value-at-Risk 
VIE Variable interest entity 
WFCC 
Wells Fargo Canada Corporation 
Stock Performance 
These graphs compare the cumulative total stockholder return 
and total compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for our common 

stock (NYSE: WFC) for the five- and ten-year periods ended 

December 31, 2013, with the cumulative total stockholder 
returns for the same periods for 
the Keefe, Bruyette and Woods 
(KBW) Total Return Bank Inde
x (KBW Bank Index (BKX))  
and the S&P 500 Index. The cumulative total stockholder returns (including 
reinvested dividends) in the graphs assume the investment 
of $100 in Wells Fargo™s common stock, the KBW Bank Index 

and the S&P 500 Index. Five Year Performance Graph 




Ten Year Performance Graph 




Wells Fargo & Compan
Wellarompanationvommunitasanciaompan
as
Founeadquarterranciscellaroankinsurancvestmortgaonsume

commerciaancoorationTMaou
stom
whonusinaonomoremellarousehold
th
Uellarompanak
Fortune
’kingerica’arorporationellargo’
iustomanciaeedeluccancia
Common st
Wellarompan
Nechan
ommharutstandin
Stock purchase and dividend reinvestm
Yoellarectellar
evou’rellaro

optionaasaymutom

fr
acco
vo
vide
reinvutomaticaonvonomica

wacreaoellarvestm
Caollmcludin
os
F
Wellargo’

Fcludinanciaem

thecchanommi

stockhskop


alssxhi

Warovxpenepar

anxhiasecr

Wellarompanellar

MA

Charolin
SEC ﬁling


urr

amendmvailaar


sfarom
ctica

eonicash

SEendmlsvaila

frarC’
v
Independent registered puaccountin
KPM

Sranciscalifornia 

Conta
Investelations 


investorrelations@wellsfar
Shareownervic
Transf

Wellarhareownervices 



a


hareowneronlin
Annuaockholdereeting 
entraime 

Tuesda

Hyegencountry 

v

S
Our rep
Aer 

Banke

Womkinerica’

Tkineam
Barron’s 
World’es

Compan
BLA
Onomp

fversit
Br
Thalua


Br
Amonalua

Brand
C
Amonploy

beaoic
hroniclanthropy 
America’ero

Cas
DiversityInc 

ompanversit

Tompanesbi

Bisexuaransgenploy

ompanecutiv

Wom
Euro
war
Forbes 
ompan


Fortune 
World’dmirompan

evon

Comp
s 
po

Frienploy
Gl
World’onsum

thUSociaMedi

ericorld’

stitutiona

Banrainancervic

vestmanagemervic

linreaservic



ankin

Neric

faymollection

Nericreas

Managemystemervic

MProInsuranc

Brokeric
omp

fversit
Humampaign 
Perfcor

Equalitde
LATINAStyle 
ompana
Forward˘Lookinements
cludininanciaevieinanciaelontain

forwaraclorecaanciaesonxpectation
anusin
ossumptionorecaxpectationorwarctuaesae
ateria
oorwarveraomesinanciaevie
inancia
anelsceforwarookinsainancial
evie
WellsˇFargo’s extensive n
Alaba

A
Arizo
Arkansa
Californi

Colora
Connectic
D.C
Delawar
Florid

Georgia
Haw
I
Illinoi

Indian
Io
Ka
Kentucky
Louisia
Main
Maryland

Massa
Michigan
Minn
Mississippi
Misso
Montan
North Carolin

N
Neb
Nev

New Mexic
New Y
N
New Jersey
O
Oklaho
Oregon
Pennsylvania

Rhode Islan
South Carolin

Tenn
T

Ut
Vt
Virginia

Washington
W. Virginia
Wiscon
Wyoming
Location
9,004ATM
wellsfargo.com
moran 
2
active online 
custom
Mobile banking
moran 
active mobile 
custom
Wells Fargo 8
Customer 8
Conn
4
customer 
contacts annua
Around th
Argentina
Australi

Baha

Bangladesh

Bra

Ca

Cayman Isla

Chin

Colombi

Dominican Republic

Ecua

Fra

German
Hong Kong

Indi

Indonesi

Irelan

Israe

Italy

Japa
Kore

Malaysia

Mexic

Philippines

Russi

Singapore

South Afric
Spain

Taiwa

Thailan

Turkey

United Arab

United Kingdom 

Vietn
Key ranking
#1 Retail banking deposits 
#1 Total stor
#1 Mortgage lender a

#1 National home loan originator to minority and low- to moderate-
income consumers and in low- to moderate-income neighborhoods 
(
#1 Used auto lender and overall auto lender (excluding leases) bas
AutoCount dov
#1 Small Business lender (U.S. in dollars per 2012 Community 
Reinvestment Act government d
#1 U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBAa) lender in dollar 
volum2013
#1 Preferred stock underwriter (Fber
#1 REIT preferred stock underwriter (Fber

#1 Oil & gas loan syndications (Fomson Re

#1 Ranked Electronic trading platform for Corporate Bonds in the U.S

#1 In Mobile Banking for privacy and security (Keynobile Banking 
Scorecard 2013
#1 Mortgage servicer a

#1 Largest crop insurance provider in the n

#1 Largest private student loan lender among commercial bank

#1 Commercial & Multifamily Real Estate Originations (ortgage 
Banke
#1 Commercial mortgage servicer (Mortgage Bankers Association, 
Jun
#2 U.S

#2 Debit card iss

#2 Annuity distributor (2012 Transamerica Roundtable Surve

#2 Real estate loan syndications (Fomson Re

#2 Asset-based loans (Fomson Re

#2 Middle market loan syndications (Fomson Re

#2 REIT common stock underwriter (Fa

#2 Banated equipment ﬁnance provider in the U.S. (

#3 REIT loan syndications (Fomson Re

#3 Utilities loan syndications (Fomson Re

#Non-investment grade loan syndications (F2013, Thomson Re

#3 Loan syndications (Fomson Re

#3 High yield bonds (Fa

#3 Branded bank ATM owner (12,647 Wellargo ATMs

#3 Retail brokeraased on number of Financial Advisors =
(aompany and competitor reports
#4 High grade loan syndications (Fomson Re

#4 Wealth management provider (based on assets under management 
unts gre
Barron’s
#5 Largest insurance broker in the world (
Business Insurance
 2013
#6 IRA provider (based on assets as of 3Q13 Cates

#8 Institutional retirement plan recordkeeper (based on assets 
a
PLANSPONSOR
 Magazine
Ju
#8 Family wealth provider (Based on assets aber
1 Source: SNL Financial. Retail deposit data 6/30/13. Pro forma for acquisitions. Caps deposits at $500 million in a single banking store and excludes credit union deposits. Non-retail deposits excluded. 
Wells Fargo & Company˚ 
ˆ˙˝ Montgomery Street˛ 

San Francisco, Californi
˜-"''-"*"-<"'<˛
wellsfargo.c
Our Vi
Satisfy all our customers’ ﬁnancial needs and help them 
succeed ﬁnancially
Nuestra Vi
Deseamos satisfacer todas las necesidades ﬁnanciera

de nuestros clientes y ayudarlos a tener éxito en el 

árean
Notre Vi
Satisfaire tous les besoins ﬁnanciers de nos clients  

et les aider à atteindre le succès ﬁnancier
©2014 WellsˇFargo & Company. All rights reserved. 8
Deposit prered through Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. Member FDIC. 8

CCM2533 (Revˇ00,ˇ1/ea
Together we’ll go fa
