WELLS FARGO
WELLS FARGO & COMPAN ANNUAL REPORT
THE POWER OF A CONVERSATION
Wells Fargo & Company
 Annual Report 2012
The power of a 
conversation.
 Ters
 Creatinonversations

 Community

 Boarectoreaders

 inanciaeport








 



THE POWER OF A CONVERSATION
At Welargo, 
every 
conversation
isimportant.
Like the conversation between small business customer Shua Xiong, owner 
of Golden Harvest Foods in Staul, Minnesota, and banker Abby Ward. 

Their talk eventually resulted in the remodeling of Xiong’s store, which 

Wellargnanced.
Conversations are also a beginning because they often lead to something more. 
eeper relationship. A great idea. A way to solve a problem. That happened over 

the course of their relationship when Ward recommended treasury management 

and equipment ﬁnance services to help meet Xiong’eeds.
Relationships like these are a Wellargo staple because they help our 
customers succnancially.
Today, Wellargo serves one in three U.S. households and can provide just 
about any ﬁnancial service an individual or business requires. We serve 

customers immunities across the country through our 9,09ores, and 

re the fourth largest in assets among U.S. banks. We got to this place 

because we continue to believe in the personaouch.
And that starts with a conversation.
To Our Owners,
Each morning, across the company, 
our day starts with conversation 

conversations about how best to 

serve our customers and help them 

succeed ﬁnancially.
We’ve been having those 
conversations at Wellargo for 

more than 16ears, and they are 

the cornerstone of our success. 

Today, we serve one in three U.S. 

households and employ one in 500 

working Americans. We handle 

5.5billion customer interactions 

a year in our Community Bank 

alonthese give us more than 

10,000 opportunities a minute to 

be a hero for our customers.
John G. Stumpf, 
Chairman, President and 

Chief Executiveer, 

Wellargo & Company
Our focus on customers and serving them well drove 
another year of record resor Wellargo and 

our stakeholders.
2012: Continued ﬁnancial success
We delivered net income

1cent from 2011. This fourth consecutive year of 

record proﬁt reﬂected the time-tested virtues of our 

diversiﬁed business model and our focus on growing 

revenue and managing costs and riskno matter how 

ult the operating environment. We grew our core 

loans and deposits, despite an uneven economic recovery, 

and grew revenue in a low interest rate environment that 

pressured our margins. Each of our primary business 

segments grew its full-year segment net income year 

over year: Community Banking bycent, Wholesale 

Banking bycent, and Wealth, Brokerage and 

Retirement bycent.
ellargo led in areas central to our 
customers’ lives and our economy’s vitalitsmall 

business lending, home mortgage lending, auto lending, 

and private student lending. We provided a safe and 

sound place f
or our customers to hold and manage their ﬁnancial assets, and served our customly 

and conveniently through the nation’s most extensive 

network of banking stores, more than 12,000 ATMs, our 

24-hour-a-day 
Wargo Customer Connection
SM, and 
our industry-leading online and mobile presence.

 Just as important, 
we accomplished this with a cross-
sell strategy that continues to distinguish Wellargo 

as a leader in building customer relationships. It’s as 

simple as this: The better we know our customers, the 

more opportunities we have to provide them with the 

products and services they nat mindset 

produced records in the average number of Wellargo 

products per customer. At the end of the fourth quarter, 

the average Retail Bank household had more than 

six products, our average Wholesale Bank customer 

had nearly seven products, and our average Wealth, 

Brokerage and Retirement customer hadoducts!

 Another measure of our success: deposit and 

loan growth. Since completing our 2008 merger with 

Wachovia Corp., Wellargo has grown deposits by more 

thd core loans byrankly, 

there’s no better proof of customer conﬁdence in today’s 

Wellargo and our unique opportunity to grow.
 ontinued to produce value for our 
shareholders. Our return on assets wacent, our 

return on equity wacent, and our full-year 

earnings-per-share growth was 1c

also returned more capital to our shareholders, as we 

increased our regular quarterly dividend by 8cent 

ents per share and purchased 11hares 

of the company’s common stock. On J

raised our regular quarterly dividend again, an increase 

cent to 2ents per share. Wellargo ﬁnished 

the year with an industry-leading market capitalization 

oe multiplied by the number 

hares outstanding).

 Wargo’s full-year i
ncome wa
s equally balanced between net interest income and noninterest income, 

a balance that has come to ty
pify a core beneﬁt of our 
business model that makes growth an attai
nable goal in a variety of interest rate environments. In

Wellargo’s net interest income grew by $46

cent, to $4s was achieved despite 

low interest rates that put pressure on our margins, 

avered more products and services to customers 

acrur huge deposit base.

 Meanwhile, we reduced cr

cent, fr

 Our capital position also improved. Wellargo 

ﬁnished 2012 with Tommon equity
1cent frear ago, resulting in a 

Tommon equitcent under Ba
Helping an economy in transition
In conversation after conversation last yeacross 

kitchen tables, as well as conference room tawe 

heard of signs of a strengthening U.S. economy. Still, we 

also observed the worries and uncertainty that inﬂuenced 

consumer and business behaviors in many areas of the 

country and the economy. Yes, low interered 

g opportunity to 
get household balance sheets 
in order. And there were bright spots, such as energy, 

that reminded us of the advantages our U.S. economy 

still holds. But overall, our customers remained cautious 

given the economy’s tepid growth and headlines about 

Washington gridlock, budget pressures, and higher taxes. 

So, while we remain optimistic for continued economic 

expanuardedly, based on what we 

experienc
1Please see the “Financial Review – Capital Management” section in this Report 
formation.
Supporting small business
Perhaps no Wellargo activity was more representative 
of the times than our small business lending.

Wellargo extenet new loan 

commitments to U.S. small businesses (primarily those 

with annual revenues of less thup more 

thcent from 2011. The rise partly reﬂects our 

focus on being a 
leader in Small B
usiness Administration 
(SBA) lending.ellargo ﬁnished its fourth 

consecutive year of SBA lending leadership, extending a 

recorda) loans.
But while approval rates improvpplication 
rates remained below what we have typically seen at this 

stage of an economic recovery. Still, we worked hard to 

serve small businesses, whether they sought to stay the 

course in a choppy economy or to venture out as ﬁrst-time 

entrepreneurs. As a resew small business 

checking accounts by
cent ye
ar over year and 
saw a more thcent increase in credit cards, lines 

of credit, and loan product solutions in our Business Direct 

lending unit, which focuses primarily on serving the credit 

needs of businesses with less thl sales.
Supporting the housing recovery
In housing and mortgage lending, our early expectations 

for a rebound were validated. We have long believed 

in the emotional attachment our customers have with 

homeownership. Buying a home is the most important 

ﬁnancial decision many
 of them will ev
er make. So, 
we were 
bullish about mortgage lending throughout 2012, well before 

signs of a recovery had become more obvious to others. 

Weed up and stepped up as others stepped back from 

the market. As a result, we originated nearly one in three 

U.S. home mortgad serviced on
Why were we bullish? Across the U.S., we saw prices 
and inventory situations improving. We also know that 

the best loans are manora downturn, 

as customers with improved bala
nce sh
eets return to the 
marketplace. 
nce translated into more 
thortgage loans originated by Wellar

ding that helped customers reﬁnance 

into lower rates or buy homes.
And we still see room for growth in the mortgage 
business, with reﬁnancing of mortgages still an attractive 

option for millions of customers and sales of new and 

existing homes getting stronger. This can only be good 

for the overall economy, because housing has led almost 

every economic recovery in recent history.
 Since the beginning of 2009 and through the end 
of 2012, Wellargo has also supported the housing 

market’s recovery by:

at historically low interest rates, and ﬁnancing 

ortgages for home purchases.

mortgage modiﬁcations that gave families facing 

foreclosure a second chance by making their mortgage 

terms more favorable.

for our customers, including forgiveness that 

customers earned through making on-time payments.

preservation events or workshops, where we met face 

to face with more than 40,000 mortgage customers.
Our ﬁve strategic priorities
Wellargo emerged from the ﬁnancial crisis of 2008 as 

stronger company. Our decision to merge with Wachovia 

gave us a more diverse 
geography, a br
oader balance in revenue streams, and a great team of people dedicated to 

the customers they serve, all of which increased the value 

of our franchise. As a combined company, we weathered 

the storm because we managed with a long-term vie

investing heavily where the opportunities were greatest, 

but also willingly ceding markets and share to others 

when we believed the opportunities didn’t ﬁt our view 

of how we best help our customers succeed ﬁnancially. 

Getting this right attracts team members, customers, and 

investors who share an interest in having a long-term 

relationship with Wellargo.
Indeed, our two teams have become One Wellargo 
with a shared understanding of our commitment to 

customers. Our customers’ success comes ﬁrst. When 

we serve customers well, the money we earn is the result. 

This is why we know never to put the stagecoach ahead 

e horses.
As we did last year, Wellargo will continue to focus 
on ﬁv









Increase over 2011 in new 
loan commitments to U.S. 

smalusinesses
Putting customers ﬁrst
Many companies say they put customers ﬁrst; it’s another 
thing to do it. It begins with recognizing there are 

elements in the future we can’t control, but we can control 

how we show up each day to serve customers.
That’s our constant focus.

Consider our customers’ banking haore 
than 2ustomers actively banked with us online, 

including more thobile devices. Yet, 

even today, most custom
ers open their ﬁrst account, and establish their banking relationships, by having face-to-

face visits at brick-and-mortar stores. That’s why we’ve 

invested in a store network that provides a Wellargo 

retail store or ATM within two miles of nearly half the U.S. 

population and small businesses within our footprint.
We’re als
erin
g more 
digital access via mobile, tablet, and computers to allow customers 

to choose when, where, and how to conduct their 

banking businaunched new features 

like 
Wargo Mobile
® Deposit, expanded our Send & 
Receive Money service, and introduced a new Wellargo 

app for iPaetail customers made more 

thayments and transfers via mobile. 

Wellargo was the ﬁrst major U.S. ﬁnancial services 

companyer mobile banking for commercial and 

corporate customers when the service launch, 

and we’ve continued to innovate and work with our 

customers to design and build new mobile services. 

ade our leading international trade services 

application, TradeXchange, available via 
CE
®. We also introduced enhancements to our popular 

Commercial Ca
rd Expense R
eporting mobile capabilities. 
CE
 securely processed more than 
$1eached a milestone of 

eceipts chosen by customers for their ATM 
transactions, and we also added an e-receipt option for 
teller transactions. Technology even empowered our 

customers’ philanthropy, as they used Wellargo ATMs 

to give more the American Red Cross 

for Superstorm Sandy rorts.
Growing revenue
When we put customers ﬁrst, it opens doors to our next 

priority: growing revenue. At Wellargo, we have chosen 

not to let the “Gre
e as 
an excuse to not grow. We see ourselves as a growth compannatter 

the environmand believe the best measure of 

progress against that goal is revenue. We grow revenue in 

two important ways: through interest income on loans we 

make, and f
ee income on services we provide.
ew revc
mostly from noninterest income. (Imagine our earnings 

power when a more normal rate environment returns.) 

The revenue growth included double-digit growth in 

our capital markets, commercial real estate, corporate 

banking, mortgage, asset-based lending, corporate trust, 

and international businesses.
Our Community Banking segment grew revenue by 
d net income by

artly because of higher mortgage 

banking revenue and above-average equity gains. Its 

performance also included annual revenue growth in 

Education Financial Serviccanaler 

Serviccent.
Our Wholesale Banking segment grew full-year 
revenue byd full-year net 

income by approxim

e broad-based growth included acquisitions 

and increased loans and deposits. Areas of notable 

growth included capital ﬁnance, commercial banking, 

commercial real estate, and corporate banking. For 

example, Investment Banking’s revenue from commercial 

and corporate customers grewcent from the prior 

year due to attractive capital markets conditions and 

continued cross-selling.w broad-based 

year-over-year revenue growth in our International Group 

cent, driven by growth in net interest income 

and cross-sell-related revenue in our Global Financial 

Institutions business, which serves U.S. customers doing 

business globally and foreign companies doing business 

in the U.S. Our Commercial Banking team also celebrated 

its 10th consecutive quarter of average loan growth.
Our performance
xcharounts
ange
FAR
Wellarcome


Wellarcompplicaomm

Dilarningommhare

Proﬁtabilit
WellarcomveraA)

Wellarcompplicaommvera
Wellaromm

c

Totaevenue


Provi

Dividendarommhare

Averaommharutstanding
—
Dilveraommharutstanding

Averaans


Averassets

Averaor

Averaor

Nargin

A
Secvailale




Allowanc

Goodwill
Assets
Cor

Wellary

Totay

Tapita

Totaapita

Capita
Totassets

Risasapita
Tapital

Totaapital

Tvera

Tomm
˘
Commharutstanding
—
alommhare


Teemactivvalent)

1  atio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income).
2  Pre-tax pre-provision proﬁt (PTPP) is total revenue less noninterest expense. Management believes that PTPP is a useful ﬁnan
cial measure because it enables investors and others 
to assess the Company’s ability to generate capital to cover credit losses through a credit cycle.
3  Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-beari
ng checking, savings certiﬁcates, certain market rate and othe
r savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances).
4  Retail core deposits are total core deposits excluding Wholesale Banking core deposits and retail mortgage escrow deposits.

5  See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.

6  See the “Financial Review – Capital Management” section in this Report for additional information.
˘Our Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement (WBR) 
segment reported revd record net 

incomeven by strong growth 

in brokerage-m
anaged account fees. WBR client assets 
grewcent increase from 

2011, includincent growth in brokerage-managed 

account asscent gro
wth in average deposits. 
WBR continued its success in cross-selling products to 

clients. The average products grew during 2012 to more 

thoducts per household.
What’s the outlook for revenue grough 
we don’t set public revenue 
goals, we do set our sights on continuing to grow by earning more of our customers’ 

business, growing market share across business lines, and 

making acquisitions that make sense for our c
ustomers and our business model.
Reducing expenses
At Wellargo, we don’t believe growing and saving 

are mutually exclusive objectives. This is why reducing 

expenses is a top priority even as we emphasize growing 

revenue. We want to grly in ways that result in 

products and services that our customers value.
This discipline is expressed by our “c,” 
which reﬂects how much we spend in expenses for every 

dollar of revenue we eellargo’cy 

ratio wacent, the lowest of our industry’s four 

largest companies. This meant we sents 

for every dollar of revenue we generated. However, 

we didn’t cut expenses solely to achieve this feat. We 

struck a balance between managing expenses wisely and 

spending on opportunities. So we hired people where we 

saw opportunities for growth and reduced operations 

where we no longer saw value for our customers.
Since 2008, we have reduced the size of our overall 
real estate occupancy portfolio by more th

square feet, net of growth. That’s almost six Empire 

State Buildings. More the feet of this 

reduction took p
lace as we grew rev, we’ve 
reduced our company’s physical footprint while improving 

the productivity an
 of the space.
Sometimes the opportunity to save spans operations. 
Education Financial Servicers private loans 

for college students, and Shareowner Services, which 

services companies and their shareholders, recognized 

they each had seasonal volume peaks; other times, when 

business slowed, they had. Now the two 

organizations train each other’s teams, reducing the need 
for each to hire seasonal temporary help. This has also 
created development opportunities for team members. 

Most important, Education Financial Services didn’t miss 

out on opportunities to lend, and Shareowner Services 

continued to receive high satisfaction scores from its 

customincluding our shareholders.
Living our vision and values
Putting customers ﬁrst, growing revenue, reducing 

ese are g
oals sh
ared by many companies. 
How they’re achieved is what ultimately reﬂects 

a company’s culture. We evaluate our leaders on 

their cultural performance as well as their ﬁnancial 

performance, knowing that our culture binds us together 

as a team. At Wellargo, we believe in the power of 

plurals. It’s not about I, me, and mine. It’s about us, we, 

and ours. Our formula for success is team success, not 

individual success, and it works. The average tenure at 

Wellargo among my direct reports isears.
Our culture is outlined in 
The Vision & Values of 
Wargo
, a 41-page booklet that details our business 


we sent a refreshed version of this 19-year-old document 

to each of our more than 265,000 team members and 

made it available to the public on wellsfargo.com. Many 

team members highlight favorite passages. Others refer 

to our vision and values when they’re solving business 

problems. It’s a document that’s widely used because it 

sums up who we are today and how we plan to become 

one of the world’s great companies.

 A new advertising campaign we launched last year 

brings an aspect of our vision and values to lifour 

culture of listening to customers. Called “Conversations,” 

the campaign showcases how trusted conversations with 

our customers cect their lives. One conversation 

can lead to so much more. The stories highlighted in this 

Annual Report reﬂect that. By listening to our customers 

and deepening relationships with them, we support their 

success. At Wellargo, we live our vision and values. 

That’s how we build trust, and that’s hoerentiate 

ourselves.
Connecting with communities and stakeholders
Our team members set Wellargo apart through their 

support of the communities we serve. Team members 

make personal donations. They volunteer. They quickly 
respond when disaster strikes.
ˇ
to the Northeast, our team memdespite many 

having lost electrical power or their homes to th

rallied to restore operations. In Neersey, one team 

member drove more than an hour to reopen her store, 

even though she couldn’t return to check on her home’s 

damage. Another team member opened her home to 

embers, friends, and storm refugees. One of 

our personal bankers helped a local business obtain a 

loan to repair damaddition, Wellargo 

donuperstorm Sandy rorts.

 am members responded again when 

community leaected by the 

housing crisis told them down payment challenges and 

competition from cash investors were keeping many 

Americans from re-entering the housing market or buying 

their ﬁrst home. In response, Wellargo partnered 

with housing nonproﬁt 
NeighborWorks
® America to 
create 
NeighborhoodLIFT
SM, one of several programs 
we’ve funded to help keep 
homeownership accessible to 
Americans of moderate mean.S. housing markets. 

Along with 
CityLIFT
SM, a similar program resulting 
from an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, 

Wellargo has provided $17ayment 

assistance, homebuyer ﬁnancial education, and other 

support. In thonths, the programs have helped 

communities recover from the foreclosure crisis and 

helped more than 1,600 people buy homes.

 Community solutions such as these are at the heart 

of Wellargo’s philanthropy. Though ranked 26th 

last year on the Fortunst of America’s largest 

companies, Wellargo ﬁnished No
hronicle 
of Philanthropy’s
 2012 ranking of America’s most 
philanthropic companies. That rankinwhich was based 

on 2011 giviniely to rise because Wellargo 
contributed neommunity and 
philanthropic cacent increase 

frddition, our team members volunteered 

ours and pledged a record $7

personal contributioncent fr

ore than 28,000 nonproﬁts.
Of ‘ﬁscalˆcli˙s’ and conﬁdence
Any discussion of the past year would not be complete 

without touching on the issue that dominated U.S. policy 

discussions in the closing months of 2012: what to do 

about the country’s huge budget deﬁcits. The U.S. ended 

the year with approximd 

this country is on a “debt growth path,” which in a couple 

of years is expected to
 exceed ve that 
everyone can agree that is too much debt.
It’s hard to get one’s head around a trillion dollars. If 
e eational debt through 

the prism of basic consumer products, such as home 

mortgages, here’s where aromes 

in America with a mortgage, and the average homeowner 

owes $200,000 on their home. If we took the national debt 

and gave each homeowner an equal share, their mortgage 

would grow from $200,000 to roughly $530,000 today 

and to more than $600,000 in four years. The U.S. cannot 

borrents of every dollar it spends; the size of the 

national debt does matter. My concern is that, sooner 

or later, the interest alone on the debt will crowd out 

resources needed for programs vital to all Americans. 

That’s whongly feel th
at policymakers s
hould return 
to discussions of long-term ﬁscal solutions.
In the year’s ﬁnal hours, the president and Congress 
reached a compromise that achieved a short-term 

solution but postponed crucial decisions on the debt 

ceiling, the sequester, and ongoing funding of the federal 

government. Although many have put forward plans to 

address such long-term ﬁscal issues, no solution has 

plemented.
While short-term debates will occur, progress is 
needed on these long-term problems. Until our country 

is on a sustainable ﬁscal path, businesses and consumers 

will remain cautious and job creation will suer. We 

cannot continue to have the ﬁscal “ﬂavor of the month” 

dominate the policy agenda. This fosters uncertainty and 

lack of conﬁdence, which are the enemies of the only sure 

way to prosperitong and growing economy. This 

is the tide that lifts all boats, and we believe the path to 

achieving that ought to include the following:
At Wellargo, we believe 
in the power of plurals. 

It’st about I, me, and mine. 

It’ut us, we, and ours.
˝
Putting the country on a sustainable ﬁscal path.
 Thive conﬁdence to trading partners, creditors, 

and most important, to consumers and business 

ownethose who create jobs and invest in this country.

Updating and simplifying our antiquated tax code.
 Tax policy should promote growth in the U.S.

Re-evaluating regulatory burdens.
 Wheet with 
business leaders of companies large and smaear 

stories of the regulatory burdens and “rpe” that 

get in the way of their doing business, hiring workers, 

and the like.vor of sound regulations, playing 

by the rules, level playing ﬁelds, and regulators who 

have the authority to 
hold wrong-doer
s accountable. 
However, we have seen regulations in all industries 

that have unintended consequences, such as increasing 

the cost of credit or slowing econecovery.

Promoting the U.S.
 We are blessed in this country 
with huge advantages: an abundance of natural 

resources, especially energy; the best rule of law; 

ulture of innovators and entrepreneurs; the best 

post-secondary schools in the world; and the world’s 

best farmers and manufacturers. The world wants 

what we produce, and our policies should support that.

Immigration reform.
 Our nation has always 
won as a team. We’re better together than apart, 

and I’m encouraged by
 what I’m hearing out of Washin.C., on this topic.
The American spirit is as strong as ever. And Americans 
will be more conﬁdent when 
we see electials working together in a way that supports growth with 

sensible policies and strategies for ﬁscal issues, taxes, 

trade, regulations, and immigration.
In appreciation
ackey J. McDonald retired from our board 

of direars of service to our company. Mackey 

served on the boards of two predecessor companies, starting 

with First U994 and also with Wachovia Corp. 

He brought extensive experience from his distinguished 

career, and we beneﬁted from his pragmatic approach, 

excellent instincts, and vast experience in various 

markets and consumer-oriented businesses. This made 

Mackey an exceptional resource as our company grew and 

changed. We thank him for his long-standing service and 

contributions to Wellargo, and we wish him all the best.
 We welcomed Howard V. “Rick” Richardson to our 
board of directors as of Js a retired partner 



beneﬁt from his more than three decades of experience 

in a wide range of leadership, audit, and business 

advisory positions. He serves on the board’s Audit and 

Examination Committee.

 We also want to thank all of our stakeholders, including 

team members, customers, communities, and shareholders. 

Your conﬁdence in and support of Wellargo remind 

y we’re so excited to serve customers each and 

every day. And the best part is when we can all celebrate 

our accomplish
ments together.
 As a result of our combinorts, millions of 

customers arancially than they were a 

year ago, communities across the country are more vital, 

businesses small and large have the ﬁnancial support and 

guidance they need to grow, and our economy is showing 

signs of increased vibrancy due to a housing market 

end.

 2012 was an outstanding year for Wellargo’s 

customers, team members, communities, and shareholders. 

Because, in the end, it all comes down to how well we 

listen to the needs of all stakeholders and execute in ways 

that help them succeed.

 And that’s why we look forward to many more 

conversations with you.
John G. Stumpf 
Chairman, President and Chief Executiveer 

Wellargo & Company
CREATING CONVERSATIONS
Building lifelong 
relationships
 one 
customer at a time.
At Wellargo, we look forward to speaking with customers. Whether in person, 
on the phone, or online, we want to hear what’s on your minand are eager to 

explore how we might help.
For Jean Iverson of Spicer, Minnesota, the talk came at a painful time: after her 
husband, Draul Iverson, died suddenly in 2010.
The late Drverson had turned to Wellargo after seeing how we managed 
the retirement plan of the hospital where he was an orthopedic surgeon. The 

Iversons worked with Christine Kaehler and a team of specialists at Wellargo 

Private Bank to craft a retirement plan. Because Wellargo had listened,  

and crafted a plan for both of them, it was a smooth transition to readjust the 

plan foealone.
Now she says she is prepared to pursue one of her passionskiing with her 
granddaughters, Madeline and McKenzie.
“It’s hard enough when you lose a spouse,” said Iverson. “To not have to worry 
about your ﬁnances, well, you have no idea.”
Jean Iverson with granddaughters 
McKenleft) and Madeline, Spicer, Minnesota
The bank in your pocket 
keeps getting 
better.
Jeremy Husk used to save ch
ecks until he had enough to make a trip to the bank. Now, he deposits them quickly and securely 

using 
CE
® Deposit..million
Wargo
business mobile banking customers, and the feature 

they ask for most is mobile deposit.
Six years ago, koi founder Kathy Peterson of Santa Monica, 
California, noticed that nurses often carry designer handbags 

but didn’t have designer options when dressing for work. 

“Thbs available then were moreommodity item. 

w the opportunity to do something more fashion-forward, 

ped on it.”
Today, koi isnot just with nurses, but also doctors, 
veterinarians, and dental hygieniand her company 

always is on the lookout for faster, simpler ways to get things 

done, and mobile banking ﬁts that bill.
Jeremy Husk, executive vice president of Operations at 
koi, was talking with Relationship Manager Dean Yasuda, 

who knew about a pilot program for 
CE
 Deposit. “N” said Husk, “wp 

out the iPhone and take a picturd we’re ﬁnished. 

It’eat.” He estimates that the entire deposit process, from 

log-in to check acceptance, takes less thonds.
Saving time is important for this rapidly growinusiness.

Husk said, “While we really like the mobile banking 
features, it’s only one piece of our relationship with Wellargo. 

We need a bank that’s going to be ﬂexible as we grow, and 

Wellargo has done that. Our partners there come up with 

solutions to support ousiness.”
Just one example: Wellargo has continued to adjust koi’s 
working capital line over the years to help it grow and meet its 

speciﬁc needs.
Peterson concluded, “Wellargo has been really good 
about keeping in touch, workinand listening.”

Kathy Peterson and Jeremy Husk, 
Santa Monica, California 
Wellargo’s Joseph Millhouse with 
Maria Marquez, 
S
, Texas
Listening and earning 
your
trust.
When Maria Marquez visited a Wellargo banking store 
with questions about her mortgage, it started a conversation 

that paymanew friend in 

Joouse.
.million
Since 2009, Wargo
customers take advantage of historically 

loest rates to reﬁnance their mortgages.
Not all conversations begin smoothly. Maria Marquez of 
S, T
exas, stopped in a Wargo store with 
questions about her monthly mortgage payment. She was 

referred to Home Mortgage Consultant Joseph Millhouse, but 

was skeptical he could help her. She even joked, “How can you 

help me when you can’t even grow facial hair yet?”
But she quickly saw that Millhouwho had joined 
Wellargo as a summer intern several years before and 

worked his wawas an expert who knew the ins and outs 

of mortgage products. During their ﬁrst meeting, she shared 

the details of her ﬁnancial situation and what she wanted to 

accomplish. 
Millhouse put together a package with options to reﬁnance her mortgage and reduce her mayments.
He kept in touch with her throughout the process. 
“Onced the loan approval,” healled her 

right away to share the news.”
Now Marquez is putting away additional cash each month 
for retirement savings.
as treated with dignity and respect and was always 
encouraged whenev
scouraged,” sh
e said. “Joseph 
and the mortgage processor 
who helped with 
my lo
an make a great team. They patiently dealt with me throughout 

thocess.”
Millhouse joined the company through an internship 
program that gives diverse college students exposure to the 

mortgage industry and Wellargo. He said, “I love helping 

customers. You quickly realize that what you’re really doing 

is assisting them with one of the biggest and most important 

ﬁnancial transactions they’re likely to experience in a 

lifetimpaying for a home.”

Global reach, 
localeam.
U.S.-based manufacturing company MAT Holdings needed 
help with ﬁnancing as well as support for its global operations. 

By working with Wellargo, the company and its CEO, 

Stevang, now have the support to seek out possibilities 

fer expansion.
 countries
With a presuntries, Wargo 
sf businesses across all segments. 

Wargo also serves more than 3,

al banks, and a variety 

oal organizations.

and distributes products for home improvement centers and 

the automotive industry. CEO Steve Wang began working 

with Wellargo in 2006 based on a recommendation from 

another company. Since then, MAT Holdings has grown its 

relationship with Wellargo, including a recent acquisition 

made possible with increased credit.
“Therence is that Wellargo works 
with my 
teams instead of telling us ‘no’ or telling us we have to do 

thingsertain way,” said Wang. “Wellargo supports 

my team on daily actian focus on global growth 

opportunities. That gives me a conﬁdence levever 

haore.”
MAT Holdings hasations in the U.S. anations 
in Europe, India, China, and Vietnam. “Wellargo for 

ariety of international business services, including foreign 

exchange, trade letters of credit, and ﬁnancing our global 

operations,” said Wang.
Relationship Manager Rosalie Hawley said, “Aellargo 
grows our intern
ational capabilities, we’ve been talking with 
MAT Holdings about other ways we can assist. Ultimately, the 

goal is to give them and all our customers with international 

needs the same level of excellent service they receive.S.”

Wellargo’s Betty Latson (left), Rosalie Hawley, 
and Peter Gates (right) with Steve Wang, 

Lonoveois
Leonard Burch, Charlotte, North Carolina
Knowing
 small businesses 
insiut.
In the highly competitive commercial heating and air 


with Wellargo helps him weather the economic storm

and continue growing.
No.
Wargo has been the No
lender based on total d.S. 

fears.
Elderly rordable-housing building will live 
more comfortably because of the heating and air conditioning 



Mechanical Systems of Charlotteorth Carolina.
Every part of Strawn Tower’s heating and cooling system 
as well as the installfrom recycled ma
terials to eco-friendly cleaning solutionis green. The project is just 

one example of the growth Superior Mechanical Systems 

has enjoyed since Burch turned to Wellargo for ﬁnancial 

guidance eight years ago. At that time, he had three employees 

and an average project size of $50,000. Today he employs 

7d averages more thoject.
Despite a challenging economic environment, the business 
is thriving. And Superior’s relationship with Wellargo has 

grown to include cash management services, retirement plan 

administration, direct deposit, real estate lending, and more.
Burch said ﬁnancing from Wellargo allowed him to build 
an annex to his headquarters. “Along with our line of credit, 

it means we can buy what we need for projects very quickly, 

store it on-site, and move immediately on new business.”
What he values most is a ﬁnancial review with the 
Wellargo team, organized twice a year by Business 



opportunity to plot business strategy: “With the plan we’ve 

developed from these conversations, we can monitor our 

strengths and weaknesses, stay on track, and continue to 

servur customers,” Burch said.



my business. They are part of my team.”

Juanita Soranno, New York, New York
Building a 
future,
 together.
After turning to Wellargo to help pay for college, Juanita 
Soranno came back for advice on the best way to paer 

student loan, and then landed a job with Wellargo.
No.
Wargo is the Noovider oate 
student loans.
When Juanita Soranno 
was accepted to S
rancisco State 
University, it was a tossup over who was most excited: her or 

her grandmother (and namesake), Juanita Ramos, who lived 

in Srancisco. Ramos was happy to have her granddaughter 

and also knew where to turn for advice on paying for 

college: the local Wellargo Mission Ocean store, where 

Ramos wayal customer.
“The personal banker there explained to us how 
Wargo could help 
me achieve my
 goals,”
 said Soranno, 


advised me on planning to prepay interest before the loan was 

due and gave me ideas on hoould pay down debt with 

monearned while working part time.”
Soranno took the advice to heart, and even applied for 
art-time teller role at Wellarthe same store where 

her grandmother banked. Upon graduating, she moved to 

Neork as a lead teller at the Seventh aneet store, 

and eventually became assistant to the Community Banking 

president of Metro New York.
“Over the years, the resources and serviceceived 
er and a team member 
have 
been excellent,” she 
concleceived good advice and 

continue to take advantage of the expertise all around us at 

Wellargo.”

COMMUNITY
Working side by side 
to create a 
thriving
community.
Part of helping customers succeed ﬁnancially is supporting thousands of 
communities and all their varied priorities.
Our focus is on helping communities and their residents succeed in the long 
term. So, we reach out. We listen. We remain open to feedback. The very best 

conversations lead to practical, sustainable solutions that make a dierence.
Sometimes that means getting our hands a little dirty. In Renton, Washington, 
WellsFargo volunteers like Esther Lee support Seattle University’s Urban Farm, 

which donates all of its produce to food banks in the Puget Sound region. 

Located on a wastewater treatment site, the farm planted its ﬁrst crops in 

Januar011. Michael Boyle, a professor in the university’s Environmental 

Studies Program, helps manage the farm.
With the urging of Wellargo team members, the Urban Farm applied 
fond was awarded a $100,000 environmental grant from Wellargo, and 

volunteers from a Wellargo Green Team regularly spend time weeding, 

planting, watering, and harvesting. With that help, in its second year the farm 

doubled production of broccoli, spinach, beans, tomatoes, and other produce 

t4,00unds in 2012.
Wellargo’s Esther Lee with 
Profael Boyle, Renton, Washington 
Idania Remon with Wellargo’s 
Jaime Yepes, Tampa, Florida
Revitalizing 
communities
one neighbor at a time.
Idania Remon was able to buy a home with the help of a 


Wellargo’s 
NeighborhoodLIFT
SM program.
more than,
The Wargo 
NeighborhoodLIFT
 and CityLIFT
SM programs have already helped 
more than 1,600 potential homebuyers 

becomeowners.
Idania Remon of Tampa, Florida, immigrated to the U.S. from 
Cubaears ago with her husband and two children. She got 

a job as a machine operator in a sports apparel manufacturing 

company and began working with Wellargo to establish 

credit. When she was interested in buying a home, she talked 

to Home Mortgage Consultant Jaime Yepes.
Yeally wanted to help, but like many ﬁrst-time 
homebuyers, Idania couldn’t ﬁnd a house that she coord. 

uld keep in touch if anything came along that 

could help.”
Enter NeighborhoodLIFT
, a program in which Wellargo 
provides down payment assistance grants, homebuyer assistance 

and education, and housing counselor support in partnership 

with NeighborWorks
® America and local nonproﬁts. Through 
the 
LIFT
 programs, Wellargo has committed $17
feas in nelp across the country.
The 
NeighborhoodLIFT
 program came about during the 
prolonged housing downturn when community leaders told 

Wellargo they needed extra help to turn the corner. The 

NeighborhoodLIFT
 program aids in stabilizing some of the 
hardest-hit communities. Every two-day event includes tours 

ordable homes, home-buying education for attendees, 

and one-on-one meetings with Home Mortgaonsultants.
When the 
NeighborhoodLIFT
 program came to Tampa, 
Yepes invited Remon to attend, and she was approved on the 

spot for a $15,000 grant to help buy a home.
“I was ready to buy a home but just needed a bit of help,” 
said Remon. “It would have taken me years to save up the down 

payment. The 
NeighborhoodLIFT
 program changed me.”
COMMUNITY
Wellargo & Company
 Corporate Social Responsibility Interim Report 2012
Conversations that
 make a dierence.

We focus on investing our resources in the areas our team members, customers, and communities  
tell us they care about most. Here are a few highlights from our ﬁve strategic areas, and 
we invite you to read our 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Interim Report to learn more.
Community investment
We provide human and ﬁnancial 
resources to help build strong 

communities.
Philanthropy
Invmillion in 1nonproﬁts
Community development 
loansˆ&ˆinvestments
Environmental grants
 Community 
development: 46%
 Education: 24%
 Human services: 17%
 Arts & culture: 5%
 Civic: 5%
 Environment: 3%
Environmental stewardship
We focus on integrating 
environmental mindfulness into our 

products, services, and operations.
Environmental loans & investments
More than
 billion
in environmental ﬁnancing in 2012
Product and service responsibility
We oer all customers responsible 

ﬁnancial advice and solutions for 

now and the future.
Homeownership
1,600 new homeowners helped with
 million
in down payment assistance through 
16 Wells Fargo LIFT programs 

launched in 2012Team member engagement
We support our team members 
professionally, ﬁnancially, 

onally.
Volunteerism

 million ho
Team member giving
illion
in donations pledged in 2012
Ethical business practices
We ensure all business functions  

run responsibly and ethically.
To learn more
Download our 2012 Corporate Social 

Responsibility Interim Report at
www.wellsfargo.com/about/csr/reports/
Training

of eligible team members completed 
the Code of Ethics and Business 
Conduct annual training in 2012
Small business lending
 billion
in new loan commitments to small 

businesses across the U.S. in 2012
.
billion in 2011.
billion in 2012.
million in 2011.
million in 2012Board of Directors
John S. Chen˚
6Retired Chairman, CEO
Sybase, Inc.

Dublin, California

(Computer software)
Federico F. Peña˚
1, 5Senior Advisor
Vestar Capital Partners

Denver, Colorado

(Private equity)
Philip J. Quigley˚
1, 3, 5Retired Chairman,  
President, CEO

Paciﬁc Telesis Group

San Francisco, California

(Telecommunications)
Nicholas G. Moore˚
1, 3, 7Retired Global Chairman
PricewaterhouseCoopers

New York, New York

(Accounting)
Lloyd H. Dean˚
2, 5, 6, 7
President, CEO
Dignity Health

San Francisco, California

(Healthcare)
John D. Baker II˚
1, 2, 3Executive Chairman
Patriot Transportation 

Holding, Inc.

Jacksonville, Florida

(Transportation, real estate 

management)
Judith M. Runstad˚
2, 3, 4, 7Of Counsel


Seattle, Washington

(Law ﬁrm)
Susan E. Engel˚
3, 4, 6Chief Executiveer
Portero, Inc.

New York, New York

(Online luxury retailer)
Stephen W. Sanger *˚
5, 6, 7
Retired Chairman, CEO
General Mills, Inc.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

(Packaged foods)
John G. Stumpf˚
Chairman, President, CEO

Wellargo & Company
Enrique Hernandez Jr.˚
1, 2, 4, 7Chairman, CEO
Inter-Con Security 

Systemc.

Pasadena, California

(Security services)
Cynthia H. Milligan˚
2, 3, 5, 7Dean Emeritus
College of Business 

Administration

University of Nebraska – 



(Higher education)Susan G. Swenson˚
1, 5Retired President, CEO
Sage Software – North America

Irvine, California

(Business software and 

services supply)
Standing Committees
1.  Audit and Examination

2.  Corporate Responsibility

3.  Credit

4.  Finance

5.  Governance and Nominating

6.  Human Resources

7.  Risk
* Lead Director
Elaine L. Chao˚
3, 4Distinguished Fellow
The Heritage Foundation

Washington, D.C.

(Educational and  

research organization)
Howard V. Richardson˚
1Retired Partner
PricewaterhouseCoopers

New York, New York

(Accounting)
Donald M. James˚
4, 6Chairman, CEO
Vulcan Materials Company

Birmingham, Alabama(Construction materials)
John G. Stumpf, Chairman, President and CEO *
Paul R. Ackerman, Treasurer
Caryl J. Athanasiu, Chief Operational Risker

Anthony R. Augliera, Corporate Secretary

Patricia R. Cal
lahan, Chief Administrative
Jon R. Campbell, Government and 
Communitelations
David M. Carroll, Wealth, Brokerage 
anetirement *
Donald E. Dana, Corporate Properties

Hope A. Hardison, Human Resources



Bruce E. Helsel, Corporate Development

David A. Hoyt, Wholesale Banking *

David M. Julian, Chief Auditor





Jamie Moldafsky, Chief Marketiner

Kevin D. Oden, Chief Market and 
Institutionaser
Kevin A. Rhein, Chief Informer *

Joseph J. Rice, Chief Crer

James H. Rowe, Investor Relations



Timothy J. Sloan, Chief Financialer *

James M. Strother, General Counsel *

Oscar Suris, Corporate Communications


Executiveers, Corporat
* “ Executive oding to Securities and Exchange 
Commission rules
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial Review
 30 Overview
 34 Earnings Performance
 45 Balance Sheet Analysis
 48 Off
-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 50 Risk Management
 89 Capital Management
 93 Regulatory Reform
 96 Critical Accounting Policies
 102
 Current Accounting Developments
 103 Forward
-Looking Statements
 104
 Risk Factors
  Controls and Procedures
 119 Disclosure Controls and Procedures
  119 Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 119 Management™s Report on Internal Control over 
 
Financial Reporting
 120
 Report of Independent Reg
istered Public Accounting Firm
  Financial Statements  
 121
 Consolidated Statement of Income
 122
 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 123
 Consolidated Balance Sheet
 124
 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
 128 Consolidated Statement of Cash
 Flows
  Notes to Financial Statements
 129 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 141 2 Business Combinations
 142 3  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions
 142 4  Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under 
 Resale Agreements and Other Short
-Term In
vestments
 143 5  Securities Available for Sale 
151 6  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses
 168 7  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets
 169 8  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities
 180 9 Mortgage Banking Activities
 183 10 Intang
ible Assets
 184 11 Deposits
 184 12 Short
-Term Borrowings
 185 13 Long
-Term Debt
 187 14 Guarantees
, Pledged Assets and Collateral
 190 15 Legal Actions
 193 16 Derivatives
 200
 17 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities
 220 18 Preferred Stock
 222
 19 Common Stock and Stock Plans
 226 20 
 Employee Benefits and Other Expenses
 233 21 
 Income Taxes
 235 22  Earnings Per Common Share
 236 23 
 Other Comprehensive Income
 237 24 
 Operating Segments
 239 25 
 Parent
-Only
 Financial Statements
 242 26 Regulatory and Agency Capital 
Requirements 
 243 Report of Independent Registered 
 
Public Accounting Firm
 244 Quarterly Financial Data
 246 Glossary of Acronyms
 ˜˚COMMUNITY BANKING
Group Head

Carrie L. Tolstedt
Business Banking Group
Hugh C. Long
David L. Pope, Business Banking Sales 
and˜Service
Debra B. Rossi, Merchant Services

David J. Rader, SBA Lending
Deposit Products Group
Kenneth A. Zimmerman
Daniel I. Ayala, 
 Global Remittance Services
Edward M. Kadletz, Debit and 
Prepaid˜Products
Customer Connection
Diana L. Starcher
Digital Channels Group
James P. Smith
Regional Banking
Regional Presidents

Paul W. ﬁChipﬂ Carlisle, Southwest
John T. Gavin, Dallas-Fort Worth

Glenn V. Godkin, Houston

Lisa J. Riley, New Mexico/Western Border

Je˚rey Schumacher, Central Texas

Kenneth A. Telg, Greater Texas
Thomas W. Honig, Mountain Midwest
Mary Bell, Indiana, Ohio

Fred Bertoldo, 
 Wisconsin, Michigan, Chicago
Nathan E. Christian, Colorado

Scott Johnson, Iowa, Illinois

Kirk L. Kellner, 
 Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska
Timothy S. Kugler, Wyoming

David R. Kvamme, Minnesota

Daniel P. Murphy, North Dakota, 
South˜Dakota
Joy N. Ott, Montana
Gerrit van Huisstede, Western Mountain
Kirk V. Clausen, Nevada

Pamela M. Conboy, Arizona

Joseph C. Everhart, Alaska

Don M. Melendez, Idaho

Greg A. Winegardner, Utah

Patrick G. Yalung, Washington
Laura A. Schulte, Eastern
Shelley Freeman, Florida
Scott M. Coble, North Florida

Carl A. Miller, Jr., Greater Gulf Coast

Frank Newman III, South Florida

Larisa F. Perry, Central Florida
Darryl G. Harmon, Southeast
Michael S. Donnelly, Atlanta

Glen M. Kelley, Greater Georgia

Leigh Vincent Collier, Mid-South
Pete Jones, Mid-Atlantic
Andrew M. Bertamini, Maryland

Timothy A. Butturini, Greater Virginia

Michael L. Golden, 
 Greater Washington,˜D.C.
Deborah E. O™Donnell, Western˜Virginia
Stanhope A. Kelly, Carolinas
Kendall K. Alley, Charlotte

Jack O. Clayton, 
 Triangle/Eastern North˜Carolina
Leslie L. Hayes, 
 Western/Triad North˜Carolina
Forrest R. (Rick) Redden III, 
South˜Carolina
Michelle Y. Lee, Northeast
Lucia DiNapoli Gibbons, 
 Northern New˜Jersey
Joseph F. Kirk, New York and 
Connecticut
Vincent J. Liuzzi III, 
 Greater Philadelphia, Delaware
Gregory S. Redden, 
 Greater Pennsylvania
Brenda K. Ross-Dulan, 
 Southern New˜Jersey
Lisa J. Stevens, West Coast
Michael F. Billeci, San˜Francisco Bay˜Area

James W. Foley, Greater Bay˜Area

David A. Galasso, Northern and 
Central˜California
Donald J. Pearson, Oregon

John K. Sotoodeh, Los˜Angeles˜Metro, 
Orange˜County
Kim M. Young, Southern California

Marc Bernstein, Enterprise Small 
Business Segment

Todd Reimringer, 
 Business Payroll Services
CONSUMER LENDING
Group Head

Avid Modjtabai
Consumer Credit Solutions
Thomas A. Wolfe
Dan Abbott, Retail Services

Beverly J. Anderson, 
 Consumer Financial Services
Ruben O. Avilez, 
 Strategic Auto Investments
Jerry G. Bowen, Commercial Auto

Dawn M. Martin Harp, Dealer Services

John P. Rasmussen, 
 Education Financial˜Services
Home Lending
Michael J. Heid
Bradley W. Blackwell, Portfolio Lending

Franklin R. Codel, Mortgage Production

Mary C. Co˛n, Performing Servicing

Michael J. DeVito, Default Servicing

John P. Gibbons, Capital Markets
WEALTH , BROKERAGE 

AND˛RETIREMENT
Group Head

David M. Carroll
Christine A. Deakin, Business Services

Daniel J. Ludeman, Wells˜Fargo Advisors

John M. Papadopulos, Retirement

James P. Steiner, Abbot Downing

Jay S. Welker, Wealth Management
WHOLESALE BANKING
Group Head

David A. Hoyt
Asset Management Group
Michael J. Niedermeyer
Robert W. Bissell, 
 Wells Capital Management
Thomas K. Hoops, A˛liated Managers

Karla M. Rabusch, Wells˜Fargo 
 Funds Management,˜LLC
Commercial Banking
Perry G. Pelos
John C. Adams, Northwest Region
Mary A. Knell, Washington and 
Western Canada Division
Ralph C. Hamm, III, Oregon and 
  
Inland Northwest Division
Tim M. Billerbeck, Specialty Finance and 
Business Development
Dave R. Golden, Mountain Division

Lisa N. Johnson, Midwest Division

Paul D. Kalsbeek, Southern Region

Rich J. Kerbis, Commercial Banking Credit

John P. Manning, 
 Greater Los˜Angeles Division
Laura S. Oberst, Central Division

Rob C. Yraceburu, 
 Southern California Division
Carlos E. Evans, Eastern Region
Michael J. Carlin, 
 Government Banking Credit
Jim E. Fitzgerald, Northeast Division

Stan F. Gibson, Carolinas Division

Howard M. Halle, Florida Division

Marybeth S. Howe, Great Lakes Division

Edmond O. Lelo, Mid-Atlantic Division

Susanne Svizeny, Pennsylvania, Delaware 
and Eastern Canada Division
Commercial Real Estate
Mark L. Myers
Charles H. ﬁChipﬂ Fedalen, Institutional 
and Metro Markets˜Group
Christopher J. Jordan, 
 Hospitality Finance˜Group
Robin W. Michel, Regional Private 
Markets˜Group
William A. Vernon, Real Estate 
Merchant˜Banking
Corporate Banking Group
J. Michael Johnson
J. Nicholas Cole, Wells˜Fargo 
Restaurant˜Finance
James D. Heinz, U.S. Corporate Banking

Kyle G. Hranicky, Energy Group

John R. Hukari, Equity Funds Group

Jay J. Kornmayer, Gaming Division

Brian J. Van Elslander, 
 Financial Sponsors˜Group
Daniel P. Weiler, Financial Institutions 
Group; Power and Utilities Group
Insurance Group
Laura Schupbach
Kevin M. Brogan, National Product and 
Special Risk Group
Michael P. Day, Rural Community 
Insurance Services,˜Inc.
Anne J. Doss, Personal and 
Small˜Business Insurance
Ken Fraser, National Product and 
Special˜Risk˜Group
Scott R. Isaacson, 
 Insurance Strategy Group
Kevin T. Kenny, Insurance Brokerage 
and˜Consulting
H. David Wood, 
 Insurance Operations Group
International Group
Richard Yorke
Rajnish Bharadwaj, 
 Cross Border Governance
Peter P. Connolly, 
 Global Transaction Banking
James C. Johnston, 
 EMEA Regional President
Chris G. Lewis, Global Trade Services

John V. Rindlaub, 
 Asia Paci˝c Regional President
Sanjiv S. Sanghvi, Global Banking Group

Charles H. Silverman, 
 Global Financial Institutions
Specialized Lending, 
 
Servicing and˛Trust
J. Edward Blakey
Brian Bartlett, Corporate Trust Services

Joseph R. Becquer, Commercial 
Mortgage˜Servicing
Julie Caperton, Asset Backed Finance

Lesley A. Eckstein, Community Lending 
and Investment
Douglas J. Mazer, Commercial 
Mortgage˜Origination
John M. McQueen, Wells˜Fargo 
Equipment Finance,˜Inc.
Alan Wiener, Multi-family Housing
Wells˛Fargo Capital Finance
Henry K. Jordan
Scott R. Diehl, Industries Group

Jim Dore, Commercial and Retail Finance

Guy K. Fuchs, Corporate Finance
Wells˛Fargo Securities
John R. Shrewsberry
Walter Dolhare and Tim Mullins, 
Markets˜Division
Robert Engel and Jonathan˜Weiss, 
Investment Banking and 

Capital˜Markets
Benjamin V. Lambert and Roy March, 
Eastdil Secured, LLC
Diane Schumaker-Krieg, 
 Research and Economics
Phil D. Smith, Government and 
Institutional Banking
George Wick, Principal Investments
Wholesale Credit & Risk
David J. Weber
Robert W. Belson, Wholesale Banking

Adam B. Davis, Chief Credit O˛cer Real 
Estate
David B. Marks, Chief Credit O˛cer 
Corporate Banking
Kevin J. Martin, Group Compliance and 
Operational Risk O˛cer
William J. Mayer, Chief Credit O˛cer 
Commercial Banking/Wells˜Fargo 

Capital Finance/Equipment Finance
Kenneth C. McCorkle, AgriBusiness

Barry Neal, Environmental Finance

Michael P. Sadilek, Loan Workout
Wholesale Services
Stephen M. Ellis
Michael J. Kennedy, Payment Strategies

Daniel C. Peltz, Treasury 
Management˜Group
Senior Business Leaders
  Financial Review 
30 Overview 
34 Earnings Performance 
45 Balance Sheet Analysis 
48 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
50 Risk Management 
89 Capital Management 
93 Regulatory Reform 
96 Critical Accounting Policies 
102 Current Accounting Developments 
103 Forward-Looking Statements 
104 Risk Factors 
 Controls and Procedures 
119 Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
119 Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
119 Management’s Report on
 Internal Control over  
Financial Reporting 
120 Report of Independent Regist
ered Public Accounting Firm 
 Financial Statements   
121 Consolidated Statement of Income 
122 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income 
123 Consolidated Balance Sheet 
124 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
128 Consolidated Statem
ent of Cash Flows 
 Notes to Financial Statements 
129 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
141 2 Business Combinations 
142 3  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 
142 4  Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under  
Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments 
143 5  Securities Available for Sale 

151 6  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
168 7  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets 
169 8  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 

180 9 Mortgage Banking Activities 
183 10 Intangible Assets 
184 11 Deposits 
184 12 Short-Term Borrowings 
185 13 Long-Term Debt 
187 14 Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 

190 15 Legal Actions 
193 16 Derivatives 
200 17 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
220 18 Preferred Stock 
222 19 Common Stock and Stock Plans 
226 20  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 

233 21  Income Taxes 
235 22  Earnings Per Common Share 
236 23  Other Comprehensive Income 

237 24  Operating Segments 
239 25  Parent-Only Financial Statements 
242 26 Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements  
243 Report of Independent Registered  
Public Accounting Firm 
244 Quarterly Financial Data 
246 Glossary of Acronyms 
Wellargompany  
201inancieport
  This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Fina
ncial Statements and related Note
s, contains forward-looking 
statements, which may include forecasts of our financial result
s and condition, expectations for our operations and business, a
nd our 
assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not unduly r
ely on forward-looking statement
s. Actual results may differ 
materially from our forward-look
ing statements due to several factors. Factors 
that could cause our actual results to differ ma
terially 
from our forward-looking statements are described in this Report
, including in the “Forward-Looking Statements” and “Risk Facto
rs” 
sections in this Report, and in the “Regulation and Supervision” 
section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2012 (2012 Form 10-K).  

 
When we refer to “Wells Fargo,” “the Compan
y,” “we,” “our” or “us” in this Report, we
 mean Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiari
es 
(consolidated). When we refer to the “Parent,” we mean Wells Fa
rgo & Company. When we refer to
 “legacy Wells Fargo,” we mean 
Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used 

throughout this Report. 
 Financial Review 
 Overview  Wells Fargo & Company is a nationwide, diversified, 
community-based financial services
 company with $1.4 trillion 
in assets. Founded in 1852 and 
headquartered in San Francisco, 
we provide banking, insurance
, investments, mortgage, and 
consumer and commercial fi
nance through more than 
9,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs and th
e Internet (wellsfargo.com), 
and we have offices in more th
an 35 countries to support our 
customers who conduct business in the global economy. With 

more than 265,000 active, full-t
ime equivalent team members, 
we serve one in three households in the United States and 
ranked No. 26 on 
Fortune’s
 2012 rankings of America’s largest 
corporations. We ranked fourth in assets and first in the market 

value of our common stock among all U.S. banks at December 

31, 2012.  

 Our vision is to satisfy all 
our customers’ financial needs, 
help them succeed financially, be recognized as the premier 

financial services company in our markets and be one of 

America’s great companies. Our primary strategy to achieve this 

vision is to increase the number
 of our products our customers 
utilize and to offer them all of th
e financial products that fulfill 
their needs. Our cross-sell strategy, diversified business model 

and the breadth of our geographic 
reach facilitate growth in both 
strong and weak economic cycles
, as we can grow by expanding 
the number of products our current
 customers have with us, gain 
new customers in our extended 
markets, and increase market 
share in many businesses. 

 
Financial Performance 

We generated strong financial 
results in 2012 even with 
regulatory changes and an uncertain economic and political 

environment. We had higher net income and revenue, solid loan 

and deposit growth, an improved 
efficiency ratio and improved 
credit quality in 2012 compared with 2011. Our 2012 results 
reflected our resolution of mortgage origination, servicing, and 

foreclosure matters with various regulators and government 

entities; Super Storm Sandy, 
which impacted many of our 
customers in the northeast; and new regulatory guidance that 

affected our credit metrics. Our return on average assets of 1.41% 
was up 16 basis points from 2011, the highest it has been in five 
years, and our return on equity increased to 12.95%, up 102 basis 
points from 11.93% for 2011. 

 Wells Fargo net income was $18.9 billion and our diluted 

earnings per common share was $3.36 for 2012, each up 19% 

from 2011. Our earnings per share have grown for 12 consecutive 

quarters through the end of 2012. The increase in our net income 

for 2012 over 2011 was driven by a 6% increase in total revenue 

and the benefit of improving our 
efficiency ratio to 58.5% from 
61.0% in 2011.  

 Our total revenue increased to $86.1 billion in 2012, up 

$5.1 billion, or 6%, from 2011. The 6% revenue increase 
predominantly reflected the diversity of our business model and 

included: 

 $3.8 billion increase in mo
rtgage banking income as 
discussed below; 
 $693 million increase in net gains from trading activities, a 
major portion resulting from customer accommodations; 

and  
 $586 million increase in trus
t and investment fee income 
due to growth in assets under 
management reflecting higher 
market values and net asset inflows as well as transaction 

activity on volume-driven fees.  
  Mortgage banking income incr
eased due to higher net gains 
on higher mortgage loan origination/sales activities reflecting 

increased margins and a lower interest rate environment for 

2012 compared with 2011. Our mortgage loan originations in 

2012 totaled $524 billion (of which we retained $19.4 billion in 

conforming loans on balance sheet
), compared with $357 billion 
in 2011. Our unclosed mortgage loan pipeline was $81 billion at 

December 31, 2012, up 13% from $72 billion at the end of 2011.  
 Noninterest expense totaled $50.4 billion in 2012, up from 
$49.4 billion in 2011. The increase from 2011 reflected elevated 
operating losses and other costs due to mortgage servicing 

regulatory consent orders, a $175 million settlement with the 

Department of Justice that resolv
ed claims related to mortgage 
lending practices, a $766 million accrual for the Independent 

Foreclosure Review (IFR) settlement and other remediation-

related costs, and a $250 million 
contribution to the Wells Fargo 
Foundation. In addition, our expens
es in 2012 were also driven 
30   by additional revenue opportun
ities from mortgage banking 
volume and other revenue generating activities. Because 

pursuing revenue opportunities can increase expenses, we 

believe our efficiency ratio, which measures our noninterest 

expense as a percentage of total revenue, is an appropriate 

measure of our expense management efforts. We improved our 

efficiency ratio by 250 basis po
ints to 58.5% for 2012 compared 
to 61.0% for 2011. While we have made progress on improving 

our efficiency, we believe our expenses are still too high and we 

will continue to focus on opportunities to reduce expenses that 

do not impact our ability to gr
ow revenue. We have targeted an 
efficiency ratio of 55 to 59%, and 
our efficiency ratio of 58.5% in 
2012 was within this target range. Although our quarterly 

efficiency ratio may vary due to cy
clical or seasonal factors, we 
believe we are well positioned to remain within our targeted 

range in 2013. 

 Our total assets grew 8% in 2012 to $1.4 trillion, funded 

largely by strong deposit growth. Our core deposits grew 

$73.1 billion ($67.2 billion on average) or 8% in 2012. The 

predominant areas of asset growth were in short-term 

investments, which increased 
$92.9 billion, and loans, which 
increased $29.9 billion. Our loan growth represented core loan 

growth of $47.7 billion (including retention of $19.4 billion of  
1-4 family conforming first mortgage production on the balance 
sheet), partially offset by the planned runoff in our non- 

strategic/liquidating loan portfolio of $17.8 billion. We also 

increased securities available for sa
le by $12.6 billion in 2012 as 
rates rose and yields be
came more attractive. 
  
Credit Quality  

Credit quality continued to impr
ove during 2012 as the overall 
financial condition of businesses and consumers strengthened 

and the housing market in many 
areas of the nation improved. 
The improvement in our credit port
folio was also due in part to 
the continued decline in balances in our non-

strategic/liquidating loan portfolios, which have declined 

$96.3 billion since the beginning of 2009, and totaled 
$94.6 billion at December 31, 2012. 
 Our reported credit metrics in 2012 improved even though 

they were adversely affected by guidance issued by bank 

regulators in first quarter 2012 relating to junior lien mortgages 

(Interagency guidance) and guidance
 issued by the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) in
 third quarter 2012 relating 
to loans discharged in bankruptcy (OCC guidance). The 
Interagency guidance requires junior
 lien mortgages to be placed 
on nonaccrual status if the re
lated first lien mortgage is 
nonaccruing. The OCC guidance
 requires consumer loans 
discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable 

collateral value (fair value of collateral less estimated costs to 

sell) and classified as nonaccrua
l troubled debt restructurings 
(TDRs), regardless of their delinquency status. The Interagency 

guidance increased our nonperformin
g assets by $960 million as 
of December 31, 2012. The OCC guidance increased 
nonperforming assets by $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2012, 
and increased loan charge-offs by $888 million for 2012. 
Including the combined adverse effect of the new junior lien and 

bankruptcy regulatory guidance:  
 net charge-offs were $9.0 billion in 2012 (1.17% of average 
loans) compared with $11.3 billion in 2011 (1.49% of average 

loans);  
 nonperforming assets were $24.5 billion at 
December 31, 2012, down from $2
6.0 billion at December 31, 
2011; and 
 loans 90 days or more
 past due and still 
accruing (excluding 
government insured/guaranteed loans) were $1.4 billion at 

December 31, 2012, compared with $2.0 billion at 

December 31, 2011. 
 
 Our $7.2 billion provision for credit losses in 2012, which was 

$682 million less than 2011, incorporated an estimate for losses 

attributable to Super Storm Sand
y, which occurred during the 
last week of October 2012. The provision for 2012 was 

$1.8 billion lower than net loan charge-offs due to continued 
strong credit performance. 

  Capital 

Total equity increased $17.2 billion
 in 2012 to $158.9 billion and 
our Tier I common equity totaled $1
09.0 billion under Basel I, or 
10.12% of risk-weighted assets. Our other capital ratios also 

remained strong with a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11.75%, 

total risk-based capital ratio of 14.63% and Tier 1 leverage ratio 

of 9.47% at December 31, 2012, compared with 11.33%, 14.76% 

and 9.03%, respectively, at December 31, 2011. 

 We increased our common stoc
k dividend by 83%, and for 
2012, paid dividends of 
$0.88 per common share and 
repurchased approximately 120 
million shares of common stock. 
During fourth quarter 2012 we al
so entered into a $200 million 
private forward repurchase contract to repurchase 
approximately 6 million shares that is expected to settle in first 

quarter 2013.  
31Overview 
(continued)
   Table 1:  Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data (1)
          % Five-year 
         Change
 compound 
        2012/
 growth 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
   2012  
 2011 
  2010  
 2009  
 2008  
 2007  
2011
 rate 
Income statement 
          Net interest income
 $  43,230  
 42,763 
  44,757  
 46,324  
 25,143  
 20,974  
 1 
 %  16  
Noninterest income
   42,856  
 38,185 
  40,453  
 42,362  
 16,734  
 18,546  
 12 
   18  
    Revenue
   86,086  
 80,948 
  85,210  
 88,686  
 41,877  
 39,520  
 6 
   17  
Provision for credit losses
   7,217  
 7,899 
  15,753  
 21,668  
 15,979  
 4,939  
 (9)
   8  
Noninterest expense
   50,398  
 49,393 
  50,456  
 49,020  
 22,598  
 22,746  
 2 
   17  
Net income before
               noncontrolling interests 
  19,368  
 16,211 
  12,663  
 12,667  
 2,698  
 8,265  
 19 
   19  
Less: Net income from
               noncontrolling interests
   471  
 342 
  301  
 392  
 43  
 208  
 38 
   18  
Wells Fargo net income
   18,897  
 15,869 
  12,362  
 12,275  
 2,655  
 8,057  
 19 
   19  
Earnings per common share
   3.40  
 2.85 
  2.23  
 1.76  
 0.70  
 2.41  
 19 
   7  
Diluted earnings per common share
   3.36  
 2.82 
  2.21  
 1.75  
 0.70  
 2.38  
 19 
   7  
Dividends declared per common share
   0.88  
 0.48 
  0.20  
 0.49  
 1.30  
 1.18  
 83 
   (6) 
Balance sheet
 (at year end)
         Securities available for sale
 $  235,199  
 222,613 
  172,654  
 172,710  
 151,569  
 72,951  
 6 
 %  26  
Loans
   799,574  
 769,631 
  757,267  
 782,770  
 864,830  
 382,195  
 4 
   16  
Allowance for loan losses
   17,060  
 19,372 
  23,022  
 24,516  
 21,013  
 5,307  
 (12)
   26  
Goodwill
   25,637  
 25,115 
  24,770  
 24,812  
 22,627  
 13,106  
 2 
   14  
Assets
   1,422,968  
 1,313,867 
  1,258,128  
 1,243,646  
 1,309,639  
 575,442  
 8 
   20  
Core deposits (2)
   945,749  
 872,629 
  798,192  
 780,737  
 745,432  
 311,731  
 8 
   25  
Long-term debt
   127,379  
 125,354 
  156,983  
 203,861  
 267,158  
 99,393  
 2 
   5  
Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
   157,554  
 140,241 
  126,408  
 111,786  
 99,084  
 47,628  
 12 
   27  
Noncontrolling interests
   1,357  
 1,446 
  1,481  
 2,573  
 3,232  
 286  
 (6)
   37  
Total equity
   158,911  
 141,687 
  127,889  
 114,359  
 102,316  
 47,914  
 12 
   27  
(1) The Company acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) on December 31, 2008. Because the acquisition was completed on December 31
, 2008, Wachovia's results are 
included in the income statement, average balances and relate
d metrics beginning in 2009. Wachovia's assets and liabilities are
 included in the consolidated balance sheet 
beginning on December 31, 2008. 
(2) 
Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing
 checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other 
savings, and certain foreign deposits 
(Eurodollar sweep balances). 
32    Table 2:  Ratios and Per Common Share Data
               Year ended December 31,
      2012 
   2011 
  2010  
Profitability ratios
      Wells Fargo net income to average assets (ROA)
   1.41 
 %  1.25 
  1.01  
Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock to average  
      Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity (ROE) 
  12.95 
   11.93 
  10.33  
Efficiency ratio
 (1) 
  58.5  
  61.0 
  59.2  
Capital ratios
      At year end: 
      Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity to assets 
  10.23 
   9.87 
  9.41  
 Total equity to assets
   11.17 
   10.78 
  10.16  
 Risk-based capital (2) 
       Tier 1 capital 
  11.75 
   11.33 
  11.16  
  Total capital 
  14.63 
   14.76 
  15.01  
 Tier 1 leverage (2) 
  9.47 
   9.03 
  9.19  
 Tier 1 common equity (3) 
  10.12 
   9.46 
  8.30  
Average balances: 
      Average Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity to average assets 
  10.36 
   9.91 
  9.17  
 Average total equity to average assets 
  11.27 
   10.80 
  9.96  
Per common share data
       Dividend payout (4) 
  26.2 
   17.0 
  9.0  
 Book value 
$  27.64  
  24.64 
  22.49  
 Market price (5) 
       High 
  36.60 
   34.25 
  34.25  
  Low 
  27.94 
   22.58 
  23.02  
  Year end 
  34.18 
   27.56 
  30.99  
         (1) The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income). 
(2) 
See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 
(3) 
See the "Capital Management" section in this Report for additional information. 
(4) 
Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of earnings per common share. 
(5) 
Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 
33   Earnings Performance   Wells Fargo net income for 2012 
was $18.9 billion ($3.36 diluted 
earnings per common share), compared with $15.9 billion 
($2.82 diluted per share) for 2011 and $12.4 billion ($2.21 
diluted per share) for 2010. Our 2012 earnings reflected strong 
execution of our business strategy and growth in many of our 
businesses. The key drivers of our financial performance in 2012 
were net interest and fee income
 growth, diversified sources of 
fee income, a diversified loan portfolio and strong underlying 

credit performance. 

 Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest 

income, was $86.1 billion in 20
12, compared with $80.9 billion 
in 2011 and $85.2 billion in 2010. In 2012, net interest income of 

$43.2 billion represented 50% of revenue, compared with 
$42.8 billion (53%) in 2011 and $44.8 billion (53%) in 2010. The 

increase in revenue for 2012 was due to strong growth in 

noninterest income, predominantly from mortgage banking.  

 Noninterest income was $42.9 billion in 2012, representing 

50% of revenue, compared with $38.2 billion (47%) in 2011 and 

$40.5 billion (47%) in 2010. The increase in 2012 was driven 

predominantly by a 49% increase
 in mortgage banking income 
due to increased net gains on mo
rtgage loan origination/sales 
activities, but also included higher trust and investment and 

other fees on higher retail brokerage asset-based fees and strong 
investment banking activity. Mortgage loan originations were 

$524 billion in 2012, up from $357 billion a year ago. 
Noninterest expense was $50.4 billion in 2012, compared 
with $49.4 billion in 2011 and $50.5 billion in 2010. Noninterest 

expense as a percentage of revenue (efficiency ratio) was 58.5% 

in 2012, 61.0% in 2011 and 59.2% in 2010, reflecting our expense 
management efforts and revenue gr
owth in 2012. The increase in 
noninterest expense from the prior year was due to increased 

revenue generating activities and elevated operating losses and 

other costs associated with mortgage servicing regulatory 

consent orders, the IFR settlem
ent, additional remediation-
related costs and the contribution to the Wells Fargo 

Foundation. 

 Table 3 presents the components of revenue and noninterest 

expense as a percentage of revenue for year-over-year results. 
34   Table 3:  Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense as a Percentage of Revenue
     Year ended December 31, 
     % of    % of 
   % of 
 (in millions) 
  2012 
 revenue
   2011 
 revenue 
   2010 
revenue 
 Interest income
               Trading assets 
$  1,380  
 2 
%  $  1,463  
 2  
%  $  1,121 
 1  
% Securities available for sale 
  8,757 
  10 
    9,107 
  11  
    10,236 
 12  
 Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) 
  1,825 
  2 
    1,644 
  2  
    1,736 
 2  
 Loans held for sale (LHFS) 
  41 
  -     58 
  -  
    101 
 -  
 Loans 
  36,517 
  42 
    37,302 
  46  
    39,808 
 47  
 Other interest income 
  587 
  1 
    548 
  1  
    437 
 1  
  Total interest income 
  49,107 
  57 
    50,122 
  62  
    53,439 
 63  
 Interest expense
               Deposits 
  1,727 
  2 
    2,275 
  3  
    2,832 
 3  
 Short-term borrowings 
  94 
  -     94 
  -  
    106 
 -  
 Long-term debt 
  3,110 
  4 
    3,978 
  5  
    4,888 
 6  
 Other interest expense 
  245 
  -     316 
  -  
    227 
 -  
  Total interest expense 
  5,176 
  6 
    6,663 
  8  
    8,053 
 9  
 Net interest income (on a taxable-equivalent basis)
   43,931 
  51 
    43,459 
  54  
    45,386 
 54  
 Taxable-equivalent adjustment 
  (701)
  (1)
    (696)
  (1) 
    (629)
 (1) 
 Net interest income  
(A) 
  43,230 
  50 
    42,763 
  53  
    44,757 
 53  
 Noninterest income
               Service charges on deposit accounts 
  4,683 
  5 
    4,280 
  5  
    4,916 
 6  
 Trust and investment fees (1) 
  11,890 
  14 
    11,304 
  14  
    10,934 
 12  
 Card fees 
  2,838 
  3 
    3,653 
  5  
    3,652 
 4  
 Other fees (1) 
  4,519 
  5 
    4,193 
  5  
    3,990 
 5  
 Mortgage banking (1) 
  11,638 
  14 
    7,832 
  10  
    9,737 
 11  
 Insurance 
  1,850 
  2 
    1,960 
  2  
    2,126 
 2  
 Net gains from trading activities 
  1,707 
  2 
    1,014 
  1  
    1,648 
 2  
 Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for sale 
  (128)
  -     54 
  -  
    (324)
 -  
 Net gains from equity investments 
  1,485 
  2 
    1,482 
  2  
    779 
 1  
 Operating leases 
  567 
  1 
    524 
  1  
    815 
 1  
 Other 
  1,807 
  2 
    1,889 
  2  
    2,180 
 3  
  Total noninterest income  (B) 
  42,856 
  50 
    38,185 
  47  
    40,453 
 47  
 Noninterest expense
               Salaries 
  14,689 
  17 
    14,462 
  18  
    13,869 
 16  
 Commission and incentive compensation 
  9,504 
  11 
    8,857 
  11  
    8,692 
 10  
 Employee benefits 
  4,611 
  6 
    4,348 
  5  
    4,651 
 5  
 Equipment 
  2,068 
  2 
    2,283 
  3  
    2,636 
 3  
 Net occupancy 
  2,857 
  3 
    3,011 
  4  
    3,030 
 4  
 Core deposit and other intangibles 
  1,674 
  2 
    1,880 
  2  
    2,199 
 3  
 FDIC and other deposit assessments 
  1,356 
  2 
    1,266 
  2  
    1,197 
 1  
 Other (2) 
  13,639 
  16 
    13,286 
  16  
    14,182 
 17  
  Total noninterest expense 
  50,398 
  59 
    49,393 
  61  
    50,456 
 59  
 Revenue  (A) + (B) 
$  86,086  
   $  80,948  
   $  85,210 
  (1) See Table 7 – Noninterest Income in this Report for additional detail. 
 (2) 
See Table 8 – Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail. 
 35Earnings Performance 
(continued)
   Net Interest Income
 Net interest income is the intere
st earned on debt securities, 
loans (including yield-related loan fees) and other interest-
earning assets minus the interest paid for deposits, short-term 

borrowings and long-term debt. Th
e net interest margin is the 
average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate 

paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest 

income and the net interest margin are presented on a taxable-

equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently reflect income from 

taxable and tax-exempt loans an
d securities based on a 35% 
federal statutory tax rate. 

 While the Company believes that 
it has the abilit
y to increase net interest income over time, 
net interest income and the net 
interest margin in any one period can be significantly affected by 

a variety of factors including the mix and overall size of our 

earning asset portfolio and the cost of funding those assets. In 

addition, some variable sources 
of interest income, such as 
resolutions from purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, loan 

prepayment fees and collection of
 interest on nonaccrual loans, 
can vary from period to period.  

 Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was 

$43.9 billion in 2012, compared with $43.5 billion in 2011, and 
$45.4 billion in 2010. The net interest margin was 3.76% in 
2012, down 18 basis points from 3.94% in 2011 and down 
50 basis points from 4.26% in 20
10. The increase in net interest 
income for 2012 compared with
 2011, was largely driven by 
growth in loans and available-fo
r-sale securities, disciplined 
deposit pricing, debt maturities and redemptions of higher 

yielding trust preferred securities, which partially offset the 

impact of higher yielding loan an
d investment securities runoff. 
The decline in net interest marg
in in 2012 compared with a year 
ago, was largely driven by strong deposit growth, which elevated 

short-term investment balances, and the continued runoff of 

higher yielding assets.  

  Table 4 presents the componen
ts of earning assets and 
funding sources as a percentage of earning assets to provide a 

more meaningful analysis of year-over-year changes that 
influenced net interest income. 

 Average earning assets increased $67.4 billion in 2012 from a 

year ago, as average securities available for sale increased 

$39.4 billion and average mortgages held for sale increased 
$11.7 billion for the same period, respectively. In addition, the 

increase in commercial and in
dustrial loans contributed 
$16.3 billion to higher average loans in 2012 compared with a 

year ago. These increases in average securities available for sale, 

mortgages held for sale and average loans were partially offset by 

a $3.1 billion decline in average short-term investments. 
Core deposits are an important low-cost source of funding 
and affect both net interest inco
me and the net interest margin. 
Core deposits include noninter
est-bearing deposits, interest-
bearing checking, savings certificates, market rate and other 

savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep 

balances). Average core deposits ro
se to $893.9 billion in 2012 
compared with $826.7 billion in 2011 and funded 115% of 

average loans compared with 109% a year ago. Average core 

deposits increased to 76% of av
erage earning assets in 2012, 
compared with 75% a year ago. Th
e cost of these deposits has 
continued to decline due to 
a sustained low interest rate 
environment and a shift in our 
deposit mix from higher cost 
certificates of deposit to lower
 yielding checking and savings 
products. About 94% of our average core deposits are in 
checking and savings deposits, one of the highest industry 
percentages. 

 Table 5 presents the individual components of net interest 

income and the net interest m
argin. The effect on interest 
income and costs of earning 
asset and funding mix changes 
described above, combined with rate changes during 2012, are 
analyzed in Table 6. 
 36   Table 4:  Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of Average Earning Assets
          Year ended December 31,
          2012 
    2011          % of 
    % of
         Average
earning 
   Average 
earning
 (in millions) 
 balance
assets 
   balance 
assets
 Earning assets
          Federal funds sold, securities purchased under 
          resale agreements and other short-term investments 
$  84,081 
 7  
%  $  87,186  
 8 % Trading assets 
  41,950 
 4  
    39,737  
 4  Securities available for sale: 
          Securities of U.S. Treasur
y and federal a
gencies 
  3,604 
 -      5,503  
 -   Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  34,875 
 3  
    24,035  
 2   Mortgage-backed securities: 
           Federal agencies 
  92,887 
 8  
    74,665  
 7    Residential and commercial 
  33,545 
 3  
    31,902  
 3     Total mortgage-backed securities 
  126,432 
 11  
    106,567  
 10   Other debt and equity securities 
  49,245 
 4  
    38,625  
 4      Total securities available for sale 
  214,156 
 18  
    174,730  
 16  Mortgages held for sale (1)  
  48,955 
 4  
    37,232  
 3  Loans held for sale (1) 
  661 
 -      1,104  
 -  Loans: 
          Commercial: 
           Commercial and industrial 
  173,913 
 15  
    157,608  
 15    Real estate mortgage 
  105,437 
 9  
    102,236  
 9    Real estate construction 
  17,963 
 2  
    21,592  
 2    Lease financing 
  12,771 
 1  
    12,944  
 1    Foreign 
    39,852 
 4  
    36,768  
 3     Total commercial 
  349,936 
 31  
    331,148  
 30   Consumer: 
           Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  234,619 
 20  
    226,980  
 21    Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  80,840 
 7  
    90,705  
 8    Credit card 
  22,772 
 2  
    21,463  
 2    Other revolving credit and installment 
  87,057 
 7  
    86,848  
 8     Total consumer 
  425,288 
 36  
    425,996  
 39      Total loans (1) 
  775,224 
 67  
    757,144  
 69  Other 
  4,438 
 -      4,929  
 -       Total earning assets 
$  1,169,465 
 100  
%  $  1,102,062  
 100 % Funding sources
          Deposits: 
          Interest-bearing checking 
$  30,564 
 3  
%  $  47,705  
 4 %  Market rate and other savings 
  505,310 
 43  
    464,450  
 42   Savings certificates 
  59,484 
 5  
    69,711  
 6   Other time deposits 
  13,363 
 1  
    13,126  
 1   Deposits in foreign offices 
  67,920 
 6  
    61,566  
 6     Total interest-bearing deposits 
  676,641 
 58  
    656,558  
 59  Short-term b
orrowings 
  51,196 
 4  
    51,781  
 5  Long-term debt 
  127,547 
 11  
    141,079  
 13  Other liabilities 
  10,032 
 1  
    10,955  
 1     Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  865,416 
 74  
    860,373  
 78  Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 
  304,049 
 26  
    241,689  
 22      Total funding sources 
$  1,169,465 
 100  
%  $  1,102,062  
 100 % Noninterest-earning assets
          Cash and due from banks 
$  16,303 
     17,388  
  Goodwill 
  25,417 
     24,904  
  Other 
  130,450 
     125,911  
       Total noninterest-earning assets 
$  172,170 
     168,203  
  Noninterest-bearing funding sources 
          Deposits 
$  263,863 
     215,242  
  Other liabilities 
  61,214 
     57,399  
  Total equity 
  151,142 
     137,251  
  Noninterest-bearing funding sources used to fund earning assets 
  (304,049)
     (241,689) 
       Net noninterest-bearing funding sources 
$  172,170 
     168,203  
        Total assets
 $  1,341,635 
     1,270,265  
                                  (1) 
Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories. 
    37Earnings Performance 
(continued)
   Table 5:  Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)(3)
              2012 
      2011  
            Interest
     Interest 
        Average 
Yields/
  income/
 Average
 Yields
/  income/ 
(in millions)
  balance 
rates
  expense
 balance
 rates
  expense 
Earning assets
             Federal funds sold, securities purchased under
              resale agreements and other short-term investments 
$  84,081  
 0.45 
% $  378 
  87,186 
  0.40 
% $  345  
Trading assets (4) 
  41,950  
 3.29 
   1,380 
  39,737 
  3.68 
   1,463  
Securities available for sale (5): 
             Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  3,604  
 1.31 
   47 
  5,503 
  1.25 
   69  
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  34,875  
 4.48 
   1,561 
  24,035 
  5.09 
   1,223  
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
              Federal agencies 
  92,887  
 3.12 
   2,893 
  74,665 
  4.36 
   3,257  
  Residential and commercial 
  33,545  
 6.75 
   2,264 
  31,902 
  8.20 
   2,617  
   Total mortgage-backed securities 
  126,432  
 4.08 
   5,157 
  106,567 
  5.51 
   5,874  
 Other debt and equity securities 
  49,245  
 4.04 
   1,992 
  38,625 
  5.03 
   1,941  
    Total securities available for sale 
  214,156  
 4.09 
   8,757 
  174,730 
  5.21 
   9,107  
Mortgages held for sale (6) 
  48,955  
 3.73 
   1,825 
  37,232 
  4.42 
   1,644  
Loans held for sale (6) 
  661  
 6.22 
   41 
  1,104 
  5.25 
   58  
Loans: 
             Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial 
  173,913  
 4.01 
   6,981 
  157,608 
  4.37 
   6,894  
  Real estate mortgage 
  105,437  
 4.18 
   4,411 
  102,236 
  4.07 
   4,163  
  Real estate construction 
  17,963  
 4.98 
   894 
  21,592 
  4.88 
   1,055  
  Lease financing 
  12,771  
 7.22 
   921 
  12,944 
  7.54 
   976  
  Foreign 
  39,852  
 2.47 
   984 
  36,768 
  2.56 
   941  
   Total commercial 
  349,936  
 4.06 
   14,191 
  331,148 
  4.24 
   14,029  
 Consumer: 
              Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  234,619  
 4.55 
   10,671 
  226,980 
  4.89 
   11,090  
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  80,840  
 4.28 
   3,457 
  90,705 
  4.33 
   3,926  
  Credit card 
  22,772  
 12.67 
   2,885 
  21,463 
  13.02 
   2,794  
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  87,057  
 6.10 
   5,313 
  86,848 
  6.29 
   5,463  
   Total consumer 
  425,288  
 5.25 
   22,326 
  425,996 
  5.46 
   23,273  
    Total loans (6) 
  775,224  
 4.71 
   36,517 
  757,144 
  4.93 
   37,302  
Other 
  4,438  
 4.70 
   209 
  4,929 
  4.12 
   203  
     Total earning assets 
$  1,169,465  
 4.20 
% $  49,107 
  1,102,062 
  4.55 
% $  50,122  
Funding sources
             Deposits:
              Interest-bearing checking 
$  30,564  
 0.06 
% $  19 
  47,705 
  0.08 
% $  40  
 Market rate and other savings 
  505,310  
 0.12 
   592 
  464,450 
  0.18 
   836  
 Savings certificates 
  59,484  
 1.31 
   782 
  69,711 
  1.43 
   995  
 Other time deposits 
  13,363  
 1.68 
   225 
  13,126 
  2.04 
   268  
 Deposits in foreign offices 
  67,920  
 0.16 
   109 
  61,566 
  0.22 
   136  
  Total interest-bearing deposits 
  676,641  
 0.26 
   1,727 
  656,558 
  0.35 
   2,275  
Short-term b
orrowings 
  51,196  
 0.18 
   94 
  51,781 
  0.18 
   94  
Long-term debt 
  127,547  
 2.44 
   3,110 
  141,079 
  2.82 
   3,978  
Other liabilities 
  10,032  
 2.44 
   245 
  10,955 
  2.88 
   316  
  Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  865,416  
 0.60 
   5,176 
  860,373 
  0.77 
   6,663  
Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 
  304,049  
 -    -   241,689 
  -    -  
     Total funding sources 
$  1,169,465  
 0.44 
   5,176 
  1,102,062 
  0.61 
   6,663  
Net interest margin and net interest income
              on a taxable-equivalent basis
 (7) 
   3.76 
% $  43,931 
   3.94 
% $  43,459  
Noninterest-earning assets
             Cash and due from banks
 $  16,303  
      17,388 
     Goodwill 
  25,417  
      24,904 
     Other 
  130,450  
      125,911 
          Total noninterest-earning assets 
$  172,170  
      168,203 
     Noninterest-bearing funding sources 
             Deposits
 $  263,863  
      215,242 
     Other liabilities 
  61,214  
      57,399 
     Total equity 
  151,142  
      137,251  
    Noninterest-bearing funding sources used to 
             fund earning assets 
  (304,049) 
      (241,689) 
         Net noninterest-bearing funding sources 
$  172,170  
      168,203  
          Total assets
 $  1,341,635  
      1,270,265  
    (1) Because the Wachovia acquisition was completed at the end of 
2008, Wachovia’s assets and liabilities are included in average ba
lances, and Wachovia’s results are reflected 
in interest income/expense beginning in 2009.
 (2) Our average prime rate was 3.25%, 3.25%, 3.25%, 3.25%, and 5.09% for 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The averag
e three-month London Interbank 
Offered Rate (LIBOR) was 0.43%, 0.34%, 0.34%, 0.69%, and 2.93% for the same years, respectively.
 (3) Yield/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and li
ability categories.
 (4) Interest income/expense for trading assets represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities.      
    
                            38           2010 
      2009 
      2008 
     Interes
t     Interest
     Interest
 Average 
Yields/
  income/
 Average
Yields/ 
  income/
 Average
Yields/
  income/
 balance 
rates
  expense
 balance
rates 
  expense
 balance
rates
  expense
                                    $  62,961  
 0.36 
% $  230   26,869 
 0.56  
% $  150   5,293 
 1.71 
% $  90   29,920  
 3.75 
   1,121 
  21,092 
 4.48  
   944   4,971 
 3.80 
   189                     1,870  
 3.24 
   61   2,436 
 2.83  
   69   1,065 
 3.84 
   41   16,089  
 6.09 
   980   13,098 
 6.42  
   840   7,329 
 6.83 
   501                     71,953  
 5.14 
   3,697 
  84,295 
 5.45  
   4,591 
  43,968 
 5.97 
   2,623 
  31,815  
 10.67 
   3,396 
  45,672 
 9.09  
   4,150 
  23,357 
 6.04 
   1,412 
  103,768  
 6.84 
   7,093 
  129,967 
 6.73  
   8,741 
  67,325 
 5.99 
   4,035 
  32,611  
 6.45 
   2,102 
  32,022 
 7.16  
   2,291 
  13,956 
 7.17 
   1,000 
  154,338  
 6.63 
   10,236 
  177,523 
 6.73  
   11,941 
  89,675 
 6.22 
   5,577 
  36,716  
 4.73 
   1,736 
  37,416 
 5.16  
   1,930 
  25,656 
 6.13 
   1,573 
  3,773  
 2.67 
   101   6,293 
 2.90  
   183   837  5.69 
   48                                       149,576  
 4.80 
   7,186 
  180,924 
 4.22  
   7,643 
  98,620 
 6.12 
   6,034 
  98,497  
 3.89 
   3,836 
  96,273 
 3.50  
   3,365 
  41,659 
 5.80 
   2,416 
  31,286  
 3.36 
   1,051 
  40,885 
 2.91  
   1,190 
  19,453 
 5.08 
   988   13,451  
 9.21 
   1,239 
  14,751 
 9.32  
   1,375 
  7,141 
 5.62 
   401   29,726  
 3.49 
   1,037 
  30,661 
 3.95  
   1,212 
  7,127 
 10.50 
   748   322,536  
 4.45 
   14,349 
  363,494 
 4.07  
   14,785 
  174,000 
 6.08 
   10,587 
                    235,568  
 5.18 
   12,206 
  238,359 
 5.45  
   12,992 
  75,116 
 6.67 
   5,008 
  101,537  
 4.45 
   4,519 
  106,957 
 4.76  
   5,089 
  75,375 
 6.55 
   4,934 
  22,375  
 13.35 
   2,987 
  23,357 
 12.16  
   2,841 
  19,601 
 12.13 
   2,378 
  88,585  
 6.49 
   5,747 
  90,666 
 6.56  
   5,952 
  54,368 
 8.72 
   4,744 
  448,065  
 5.68 
   25,459 
  459,339 
 5.85  
   26,874 
  224,460 
 7.60 
   17,064 
  770,601  
 5.17 
   39,808 
  822,833 
 5.06  
   41,659 
  398,460 
 6.94 
   27,651 
  5,849  
 3.56 
   207   6,113 
 3.05  
   186   1,920 
 4.73 
   91 $  1,064,158  
 5.02 
% $  53,439 
  1,098,139 
 5.19  
% $  56,993 
  526,812 
 6.69 
% $  35,219 
                                    $  60,941  
 0.12 
% $  72   70,179 
 0.14  
% $  100   5,650 
 1.12 
% $  64   416,877  
 0.26 
   1,088 
  351,892 
 0.39  
   1,375 
  166,691 
 1.32 
   2,195 
  87,133  
 1.43 
   1,247 
  140,197 
 1.24  
   1,738 
  39,481 
 3.08 
   1,215 
  14,654  
 2.07 
   302   20,459 
 2.03  
   415   6,656 
 2.83 
   187   55,097  
 0.22 
   123   53,166 
 0.27  
   146   47,578 
 1.81 
   860   634,702  
 0.45 
   2,832 
  635,893 
 0.59  
   3,774 
  266,056 
 1.70 
   4,521 
  46,824  
 0.22 
   106   51,972 
 0.44  
   231   65,826 
 2.25 
   1,478 
  185,426  
 2.64 
   4,888 
  231,801 
 2.50  
   5,786 
  102,283 
 3.70 
   3,789 
  6,863  
 3.31 
   227   4,904 
 3.50  
   172   -  -    -   873,815  
 0.92 
   8,053 
  924,570 
 1.08  
   9,963 
  434,165 
 2.25 
   9,788 
  190,343  
 -    -   173,569 
 -  
   -   92,647 
 -    - $  1,064,158  
 0.76 
   8,053 
  1,098,139 
 0.91  
   9,963 
  526,812 
 1.86 
   9,788 
                     4.26 
% $  45,386 
   4.28  
% $  47,030 
   4.83 
% $  25,431 
                  $  17,618  
      19,218 
      11,175 
      24,824  
      23,997 
      13,353 
      120,338  
      121,000 
      53,056 
    $  162,780  
      164,215 
      77,584 
                      $  183,008  
      171,712 
      87,820 
      47,877  
      48,193 
      28,658 
      122,238  
      117,879 
      53,753 
                        (190,343) 
      (173,569)
      (92,647)
    $  162,780  
      164,215 
      77,584 
    $  1,226,938  
      1,262,354 
      604,396 
                     (5) The average balance amounts represent amort
ized cost for the periods presented. 
(6) Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories.
 (7) Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of $701 million, $696 million, $629 million, $706 million and $288 million for 2012, 20
11, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, 
primarily related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and se
curities. The federal statutory tax rate utilized was 35% for the
 periods presented.
    39Earnings Performance 
(continued)
    Table 6 allocates the changes 
in net interest income on a 
taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or 

average rates for both interest-earning assets and 

interest-bearing liabilities.
 Because of the numerous 
simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is 
not possible to precisely allocat
e such changes between volume 
and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either 

volume or rate are allocated to these categories on a pro-rata 

basis based on the absolute value of the change due to average 

volume and average rate. 
 Table 6:  Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income
         Year ended December 31, 
        2012 over 2011
 2011 over 2010
 (in millions) 
 Volume
 Rate 
Total 
Volume
 Rate
Total 
Increase (decrease) in interest income: 
        Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale 
         agreements and other short-term investments 
$  (12) 
 45  
 33  
  89 
  26 
 115  
Trading assets 
  78 
  (161) 
 (83) 
  363 
  (21)
 342  
Debt securities available for sale: 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  (25)
  3  
 (22) 
  62 
  (54)
 8  
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  499 
  (161) 
 338  
  424 
  (181)
 243  
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
          Federal agencies 
  687 
  (1,051) 
 (364) 
  135 
  (575)
 (440) 
  Residential and commercial 
  129 
  (482) 
 (353) 
  9 
  (788)
 (779) 
   Total mortgage-backed securities 
  816 
  (1,533) 
 (717) 
  144 
  (1,363)
 (1,219) 
 Other debt securities 
  475 
  (424) 
 51  
  349 
  (510)
 (161) 
    Total debt securities available for sale 
  1,765 
  (2,115) 
 (350) 
  979 
  (2,108)
 (1,129) 
Mortgages held for sale  
  465 
  (284) 
 181  
  24 
  (116)
 (92) 
Loans held for sale  
  (26)
  9  
 (17) 
  (100)
  57 
 (43) 
Loans: 
         Commercial: 
          Commercial and industrial 
  680 
  (593) 
 87  
  373 
  (665)
 (292) 
  Real estate mortgage 
  133 
  115  
 248  
  147 
  180 
 327  
  Real estate construction 
  (182)
  21  
 (161) 
  (385)
  389 
 4  
  Lease financing 
  (13)
  (42) 
 (55) 
  (45)
  (218)
 (263) 
  Foreign 
  77 
  (34) 
 43  
  215 
  (311)
 (96) 
   Total commercial 
  695 
  (533) 
 162  
  305 
  (625)
 (320) 
 Consumer: 
          Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  367 
  (786) 
 (419) 
  (440)
  (676)
 (1,116) 
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  (424)
  (45) 
 (469) 
  (473)
  (120)
 (593) 
  Credit card 
  167 
  (76) 
 91  
  (120)
  (73)
 (193) 
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  13 
  (163) 
 (150) 
  (111)
  (173)
 (284) 
   Total consumer 
  123 
  (1,070) 
 (947) 
  (1,144)
  (1,042)
 (2,186) 
    Total loans 
  818 
  (1,603) 
 (785) 
  (839)
  (1,667)
 (2,506) 
Other 
  (21)
  27  
 6  
  (35)
  31 
 (4) 
     Total increase (decrease) in interest income 
  3,067 
  (4,082) 
 (1,015) 
  481 
  (3,798)
 (3,317) 
Increase (decrease) in interest expense: 
        Deposits: 
         Interest-bearing checking 
  (12)
  (9) 
 (21) 
  (13)
  (19)
 (32) 
 Market rate and other savings 
  65 
  (309) 
 (244) 
  112 
  (364)
 (252) 
 Savings certificates 
  (135)
  (78) 
 (213) 
  (252)
  - 
 (252) 
 Other time deposits 
  5 
  (48) 
 (43) 
  (30)
  (4)
 (34) 
 Deposits in foreign offices 
  13 
  (40) 
 (27) 
  13 
  - 
 13  
  Total interest-bearing deposits 
  (64)
  (484) 
 (548) 
  (170)
  (387)
 (557) 
Short-term borrowings 
  -   -   -    9 
  (21)
 (12) 
Long-term debt 
  (362)
  (506) 
 (868) 
  (1,227)
  317 
 (910) 
Other liabilities 
  (25)
  (46) 
 (71) 
  122 
  (33)
 89  
   Total increase (decrease) in interest expense 
  (451)
  (1,036) 
 (1,487) 
  (1,266)
  (124)
 (1,390) 
Increase (decrease) in net interest income 
         on a taxable-equivalent basis 
$  3,518  
 (3,046) 
 472  
  1,747 
  (3,674)
 (1,927) 
40   Noninterest Income
            Table 7:  Noninterest Income
         Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
  2010  
Service charges on 
     deposit accounts 
$  4,683  
 4,280 
  4,916  
Trust and investment fees: 
     Brokerage advisory, commissions 
     and other fees 
  6,386 
  6,241 
  5,930  
 Trust, investment and IRA fees 
  4,218 
  4,099 
  4,038  
 Investment banking fees 
  1,286 
  964 
  966  
  Total trust and 
       investment fees 
  11,890 
  11,304 
  10,934  
Card fees 
  2,838 
  3,653 
  3,652  
Other fees: 
     Charges and fees on loans 
  1,746 
  1,641 
  1,690  
 Merchant transaction 
      processing fees 
  583 
  478 
  444  
 Cash network fees 
  470 
  389 
  260  
 Commercial real estate 
       brokerage commissions 
  307 
  236 
  176  
 Letters of credit fees 
  441 
  472 
  523  
 All other fees 
  972 
  977 
  897  
  Total other fees 
  4,519 
  4,193 
  3,990  
Mortgage banking: 
     Servicing income, net  
  1,378 
  3,266 
  3,340  
 Net gains on mortgage loan 
      origination/sales activities 
  10,260 
  4,566 
  6,397  
  Total mortgage banking  
  11,638 
  7,832 
  9,737  
Insurance 
  1,850 
  1,960 
  2,126  
Net gains from trading activities 
  1,707 
  1,014 
  1,648  
Net gains (losses) on debt 
     securities available for sale 
  (128)
  54 
  (324) 
Net gains from equity investments 
  1,485 
  1,482 
  779  
Life insurance investment income 
  757 
  700 
  697  
Operating leases 
  567 
  524 
  815  
All other 
  1,050 
  1,189 
  1,483  
      Total 
$  42,856  
 38,185 
  40,453  
           Noninterest income of $42.9 billion represented 50% of revenue 
for 2012 compared with $38.2 billion, or 47%, for 2011 and 

$40.5 billion, or 47%, for 2010. The increase in noninterest 
income from 2011 was primarily 
due to higher net gains on 
higher mortgage loan origination/sales activities reflecting 

increased margins and a lower interest rate environment 

in 2012.  

 Our service charges on deposit 
accounts increased in 2012 by 
$403 million, or 9%, from 2011, predominantly due to product 

and account changes including changes to service charges and 

fewer fee waivers, continued customer adoption of overdraft 

services and customer account gr
owth. The decrease in service 
charges in 2011 from 2010 was predominantly due to changes 

implemented in third quarter 20
10 mandated by Regulation E 
(which limited certain overdraf
t fees) and related overdraft 
policy changes. 

 We receive brokerage advisory, commissions and other fees 

for providing services to full-s
ervice and discount brokerage 
customers. Brokerage advisory
, commissions and other fees 
increased to $6.4 billion in 2012
 from $6.2 billion in 2011 and 
$5.9 billion in 2010, and incl
udes transactional commissions 
based on the number of transactio
ns executed at the customer’s 
direction, and asset-based fees, 
which are based on the market 
value of the customer’s assets. Brokerage client assets totaled 

$1.2 trillion at December 31, 20
12, up 8% from $1.1 trillion at 
December 31, 2011, due to growth
 in assets under management 
and higher market values. 

 We earn trust, investment and IRA (Individual Retirement 

Account) fees from managing
 and administering assets, 
including mutual funds, corporate trust, personal trust, 

employee benefit trust and agency assets. At December 31, 2012, 

these assets totaled $2.2 trillion, up 3% from December 31, 2011, 

due to growth in assets under 
management and higher market 
values. Trust, investment and IRA fees are largely based on a 

tiered scale relative to the market value of the assets under 

management or administration. These fees increased to 
$4.2 billion in 2012 from $4.1 billion in 2011, which increased 

from $4.0 billion in 2010. 

 We earn investment banking f
ees from underwriting debt 
and equity securities, loan syndications, and performing other 

related advisory services. Investment banking fees increased to 

$1.3 billion in 2012 from $964 
million in 2011 and $966 million 
in 2010 due to increased volume. 

 Card fees were $2.8 billion in 2012, compared with 

$3.7 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Card fees decreased because 

of lower debit card interchange rates resulting from the Federal 

Reserve Board (FRB) rules implementing the debit interchange 

provision of the Dodd-Frank Act,
 which became effective in 
fourth quarter 2011. The reduction in debit card interchange 

income was partially o
ffset by growth in purchase volume and 
new accounts.  
 Mortgage banking noninterest income, consisting of net 
servicing income and net gain
s on loan origination/sales 
activities, totaled $11.6 billion in 2012, compared with 
$7.8 billion in 2011 and $9.7 billion in 2010. The increase in 
mortgage banking noninterest income from 2011 was 

predominantly driven by an incr
ease in net gains on higher 
mortgage loan origination volumes and margins reflecting the 

impact of limited industry capa
city in a lower interest rate 
environment and various other fact
ors, while the decline in 2011 
from 2010 was primarily driven by a decline in net gains on 

mortgage loan originations reflecting lower volume and margins. 

 Net mortgage loan servicing inco
me includes amortization of 
commercial mortgage servicing ri
ghts (MSRs), changes in the 
fair value of residential MSRs during the period, as well as 

changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to 

hedge the residential MSRs. Ne
t servicing income for 2012 
included a $681 million net MSR valuation gain ($2.9 billion 

decrease in the fair 
value of the MSRs offset by a $3.6 billion 
hedge gain) and for 2011 included a $1.6 billion net MSR 

valuation gain ($3.7 billion decrea
se in the fair value of MSRs 
offset by a $5.3 billion hedge gain). The 2012 MSRs valuation 

included a $677 million reduction 
reflecting the additional costs 
associated with implementation
 of the servicing standards 
developed in connection with our settlement with the 

Department of Justice (DOJ) and other state and federal 

agencies relating to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure 
41Earnings Performance 
(continued)
   practices, as well as higher fore
closure costs. Our portfolio of 
loans serviced for others was $1.91 trillion at December 31, 2012, 

and $1.85 trillion at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, 

the ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others was 0.67%, 

compared with 0.76% at December 31, 2011. See the “Risk 
Management – Mortgage Bankin
g Interest Rate and Market 
Risk” section of this Report for additional information regarding 

our MSRs risks and hedging approach and the “Risk 

Management – Credit Risk Management –Risks Relating to 

Servicing Activities” section in this Report for information on the 

DOJ settlement and the regulatory consent orders that we 

entered into relating to our mortgages servicing and foreclosure 

practices.  

 Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sale activities were 

$10.3 billion in 2012, compared wi
th $4.6 billion in 2011 and 
$6.4 billion in 2010. The increase in 2012 was driven by higher 

loan origination volume and marg
ins while the decrease in 2011 
was the result of lower origination volume and margins on loan 

originations. Mortgage loan orig
inations were $524 billion in 
2012, compared with $357 billion a year ago. During 2012 we 

retained for investment $19.4 bi
llion of 1-4 family conforming 
first mortgage loans, forgoing approximately $575 million of fee 

revenue that could have been generated had the loans been 
originated for sale along with other agency conforming loan 
production. While retaining these mortgage loans on our balance 

sheet reduced mortgage revenue, 
we expect to generate spread 
income in future quarters from
 mortgage loans with higher 
yields than mortgage-backed secu
rities we could have purchased 
in the market. While we do not cu
rrently plan to hold additional 
conforming mortgages on
 balance sheet (other than $3.3 billion 
from our unclosed pipeline at December 31, 2012), we have a 

large mortgage business and strong capital that provides us with 

the flexibility to make su
ch choices in the future to benefit our 
long-term results. Mortgage applications were $736 billion in 
2012, compared with $537 billion in 2011. The 1-4 family first 

mortgage unclosed pipeline wa
s $81 billion at December 31, 
2012, and $72 billion at December 31, 2011. For additional 

information about our mortgage banking activities and results, 

see the “Risk Management – Mort
gage Banking Interest Rate 
and Market Risk” section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking 

Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values
 of Assets and Liabilities) to 
Financial Statements in this Report. 

  Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities 
include the cost of additions to th
e mortgage repurchase liability. 
Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties based on 

standard representations and warranties, and early payment 
default clauses in mortgage sale contracts. Additions to the 

mortgage repurchase liability that were charged against net 

gains on mortgage loan originatio
n/sales activities during 2012 
totaled $1.9 billion (compared with $1.3 billion for 2011), of 
which $1.7 billion ($1.2 billion for 2011) was for subsequent 
increases in estimated losses on prior period loan sales. For 

additional information about mortgage loan repurchases, see the 

“Risk Management – Credit Risk Management – Liability for 
Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses” section and Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) to 
Financial Statements in this 
Report. 

 We engage in trading activities
 primarily to accommodate the 
investment activities of our 
customers, exec
ute economic 
hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a 
very limited amount of proprietary trading for our own account. 

Net gains (losses) from trading activities, which reflect 

unrealized changes
 in fair value of our trading positions and 
realized gains and losses, were $1.7 billion in 2012, $1.0 billion 

in 2011 and $1.6 billion in 2010
. The year-over-year increase in 
trading activities in 2012 was 
driven by gains on customer 
accommodation trading activities
 and economic hedging gains, 
which included higher gains on
 deferred compensation plan 
investments based on participant elections (offset entirely in 

employee benefits expense). Net gains (losses) from trading 

activities do not include interest
 and dividend income on trading 
securities. Those amounts are reported within net interest 

income from trading assets. Proprietary trading generated 

$15 million of net gains in 2012
, compared with a $14 million net 
loss in 2011. Proprietary trading results also included interest 

and fees reported in their corresponding income statement line 

items. Proprietary trading activities are not significant to our 

client-focused business model. 

 Net gains on debt and equity se
curities totaled $1.4 billion for 
2012, $1.5 billion for 2011 and $455 million for 2010, after 

other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs of 

$416 million, $711 million and $940
 million, respectively, for the 
same periods.   
42   Noninterest Expense
       Table 8:  Noninterest Expense
    Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
 2010 
Salaries 
$  14,689  
 14,462 
 13,869 
Commission and incentive 
   compensation 
  9,504  
 8,857 
 8,692 
Employee benefits 
  4,611  
 4,348 
 4,651 
Equipment 
  2,068  
 2,283 
 2,636 
Net occupancy 
  2,857  
 3,011 
 3,030 
Core deposit and other intangibles 
  1,674  
 1,880 
 2,199 
FDIC and other deposit 
     assessments 
  1,356  
 1,266 
 1,197 
Outside professional services 
  2,729  
 2,692 
 2,370 
Operating losses 
  2,235  
 1,261 
 1,258 
Foreclosed assets 
  1,061  
 1,354 
 1,537 
Contract services 
  1,011  
 1,407 
 1,642 
Outside data processing 
  910  
 935 
 1,046 
Travel and entertainment 
  839  
 821 
 783 
Postage, stationery and supplies 
  799  
 942 
 944 
Advertising and promotion 
  578  
 607 
 630 
Telecommunications 
  500  
 523 
 596 
Insurance 
  453  
 515 
 464 
Operating leases 
  109  
 112 
 109 
All other 
  2,415  
 2,117 
 2,803 
 Total 
$  50,398  
 49,393 
 50,456 
      Noninterest expense was $50.4 billion in 2012, up 2% from 
$49.4 billion in 2011, which was down 2% from $50.5 billion in 

2010. The increase was driven predominantly by higher 
personnel expense ($28.8 billion, up from $27.7 billion in 2011) 

and higher operating losses ($2.2 billion, up from $1.3 billion in 

2011), partially offset by lower merger integration costs 

($218 million in 2012, down from $1.7 billion in 2011). The 

decrease in 2011 from 2010 
was driven by lower merger 
integration costs, decreases in equipment expense, contract 
services expense and foreclosed assets expense.  
 Personnel expenses were up $1.1 billion, or 4%, in 2012 

compared with 2011, due to higher revenue-based compensation 

and a $263 million increase in 
employee benefits due primarily 
to higher deferred compensation expense which was offset in 

trading income, and increased st
affing, primarily to support 
strong mortgage banking activities. For 2011 these expenses 

were up 2% compared with 2010, also due to higher revenue-

based compensation as well as severance expense related to our 

expense reduction initiative. 

  Outside professional services were elevated for 2012 and 2011 
reflecting investments by our businesses in their service delivery 

systems and higher costs associated with regulatory driven 

mortgage servicing and foreclosure matters. 

 The completion of Wachovia in
tegration activities in first 
quarter 2012 significantly contributed to year-over-year 
reductions in equipment, occu
pancy, contract services, and 
postage, stationery and supplies. Equipment expense in 2012 

also declined due to lower annual software license fees and 

savings in equipment purchases and maintenance. 

 Foreclosed assets expense was 
down $293 million, or 22%, in 
2012 compared with 2011, mainly due to lower write-downs and 

gains on sale of foreclosed properties. 

 Operating losses were up $974 million, or 77%, in 2012 

compared with the prior year, pr
edominantly due 
to additional 
mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related matters, including 

the Attorneys General settlement announced in February 2012, 

our $175 million settlement in July 2012 with the U.S. 

Department of Justice (DOJ), which resolved alleged claims 

related to our mortgage lending practices, a $766 million accrual 

for the IFR settlement and additional remediation-related costs.  

See “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management – Other 

Mortgage Matters” and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial 

Statements in this Report for additional information regarding 

these items. 

 All other expenses of $2.4 billion in 2012 were up from 

$2.1 billion in 2011, primarily due to a $250 million charitable 

contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. 
 Income Tax Expense
 The 2012 annual effective tax rate was 32.5% compared with 

31.9% in 2011 and 33.9% in 2010. The lower effective tax rates 

for 2012 and 2011, compared with
 2010, were primarily due to 
the realization, for tax purposes, of tax benefits on previously 

written down investments. For 2012
 this includes a $332 million 
tax benefit resulting from the surrender of previously written-

down Wachovia life insurance inve
stments. In addition, the 2011 
effective tax rate was lower than the 2010 effective tax rate due 
to a decrease in tax expense associated with leveraged leases, as 
well as tax benefits related to charitable donations of appreciated 

securities. 
43Earnings Performance 
(continued)
   Operating Segment Results 
We are organized for management reporting purposes into three 
operating segments: Community 
Banking; Wholesale Banking; 
and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. These segments are 

defined by product type and customer segment and their results 

are based on our management a
ccounting process, for which 
there is no comprehensive, auth
oritative financial accounting 
guidance equivalent to generally 
accepted accounting principles 
(GAAP). In first quarter 2012, we modified internal funds 
transfer rates and the allocation of funding. The prior periods 

have been revised to reflect these changes. Table 9 and the 

following discussion present our results by operating segment. 

For a more complete description of our operating segments, 

including additional financial 
information and the underlying 
management accounti
ng process, see Note 24 (Operating 
Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
 Table 9:  Operating Segment Results – Highlights
  Year ended December 31,
      Wealth, Brokerage 
(in billions) 
 Community Banking
 Wholesale Banking
and Retirement 
  2012  
 2011 
  2012 
  2011 
 2012 
  2011 
 Revenue 
$  53.4  
 50.8 
   24.1  
 21.6 
 12.2  
 12.2 
 Net income 
  10.5  
 9.1 
   7.8  
 7.0 
 1.3  
 1.3 
 Average loans 
  487.1  
 496.3 
   273.8  
 249.1 
 42.7  
 43.0 
 Average core deposits 
  591.2  
 556.3 
   227.0  
 202.1 
 137.5  
 130.0 
           Community Banking
 offers a complete 
line of diversified 
financial products and services for consumers and small 

businesses. These products include investment, insurance and 

trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home 

equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. through its Regional 

Banking and Wells Fargo Home Lending business units. Cross-

sell of our products is an important part of our strategy to 

achieve our vision to satisfy all our customers’ financial needs. 

Our retail bank household cross-sell was 6.05 products per 
household in fourth quarter 2012, up from 5.93 a year ago. We 

believe there is more opportunity 
for cross-sell as we continue to 
earn more business from our customers. Our goal is eight 

products per customer, which is approximately half of our 

estimate of potential demand for 
an average U.S. household. In 
fourth quarter 2012, one of ever
y four of our retail banking 
households had eight or more of our products. 

 Community Banking reported ne
t income of $10.5 billion in 
2012, up $1.4 billion, or 15%, from 2011. Revenue was 
$53.4 billion for 2012, an increase of $2.6 billion, or 5%, 

compared with 2011, as a result of higher mortgage banking 

revenue and growth in deposit service charges, partially offset by 

lower debit card revenue due to regulatory changes enacted in 

October 2011, and lower net interest income. Average core 

deposits increased $35 billion, or 6%, from a year ago. 

Noninterest expense increased $1.6 billion, or 5%, from 2011, 
largely the result of higher mortgage volume-related expenses, 
costs associated with settling mortgage servicing and 

foreclosure-related matters, in
cluding the DOJ and the IFR 
settlements, and a $250 million co
ntribution to the Wells Fargo 
Foundation. The provision for credit losses was $1.1 billion, or 

14%, lower than 2011 due to improved portfolio performance.  

 
Wholesale Banking
 provides financial solutions to businesses 
across the United States and globally with annual sales generally 

in excess of $20 million. Products and business segments 

include Middle Market Commerci
al Banking, Government and 
Institutional Banking, Corpo
rate Banking, Commercial Real 
Estate, Treasury Management, Wells Fargo Capital Finance, 
Insurance, International, Real Estate Capital Markets, 
Commercial Mortgage Servicing,
 Corporate Trust, Equipment 
Finance, Wells Fargo Securities, Principal Investments, Asset 

Backed Finance, and Asset Management. 

 Wholesale Banking reported net income of $7.8 billion in 

2012, up $787 million, or 11%, 
from $7.0 billion in 2011. The 
year over year increase in net in
come was the result of strong 
revenue growth partially offset by increased noninterest expense 

and a higher provision for loan losses. 

 Revenue in 2012 of $24.1 billion increased $2.5 billion, or 

12%, from 2011, due to broad-based business growth as well as 
growth from acquisitions. Net in
terest income of $12.6 billion 
increased $1.0 billion or 9% driv
en by strong loan and deposit 
growth. Average loans of $273.8 billion increased $24.7 billion, 

or 10%, driven by strong cust
omer demand and acquisitions. 
Average core deposits of $227.0 billion in 2012 increased 

$24.9 billion, or 12%, from 2011 reflecting continued strong 

customer liquidity. Noninterest in
come of $11.4 billion increased 
$1.5 billion, or 15%, due to strong growth in asset backed 

finance, commercial banking,
 commercial real estate, 
investment banking, real esta
te capital markets and sales & 
trading.  
Total noninterest expense in 2012 increased $905 million, or 
8%, compared with 2011 due to 
higher personnel expenses 
related to revenue growth and 
higher non-personnel expenses 
related to growth initiatives 
and compliance and regulatory 
requirements as well as increased operating losses. The 

provision for credit losses increased $396 million from 2011, as a 

$319 million decline in loan losses was more than offset by a 

provision for increase in loans, 
particularly from acquisitions. 
 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
 provides a full range of 
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach 

to meet each client's needs.
 Wealth Management provides 
affluent and high net worth clie
nts with a complete range of 
wealth management solutions, including financial planning, 

private banking, credit, investment mana
gement and trust. 
Abbot Downing, a Wells Fargo business, provides 
44   comprehensive wealth management
 services to ultra high net 
worth
 families and individuals as we
ll as their endowments and 
foundations. Brokerage serves customers' advisory, brokerage 

and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service 
brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a national 

leader in providing institutiona
l retirement and trust services 
(including 401(k) and pensio
n plan record keeping) for 
businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and 

reinsurance services for the life insurance industry. 
 Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of 

$1.3 billion in 2012, up $47 million, or 4%, from 2011. The prior 

year results include the H.D. Vest Financial Services business 

that was sold in fourth quarter 2011 at a gain of $153 million. 

Revenue of $12.2 billion decreased $17 million from 2011. Net 
interest income decreased due to 
lower interest rates on the loan 
and investment portfolios partia
lly offset by the impact of 
growth in low-cost core depo
sits. Average core deposits of 
$137.5 billion in 2012 increased 6% from 2011. Noninterest 

income increased year over year du
e to higher asset-based fees 
and gains on deferred compensation
 plan investments (offset in 
expense). The increase was partially offset by the 2011 gain on 

the sale of H.D. Vest, lower transaction revenue and reduced 

securities gains in the brokerage business. Noninterest expense 

was flat, including the impact 
of deferred compensation plan 
expense (offset in revenue), for 2012 compared with 2011. The 

provision for credit losses decrea
sed $45 million, or 26%, from 
2011, due to improved credit quality and lower net charge-offs.  
 Balance Sheet Analysis 
 Our total assets grew 8% in 2012 to $1.4 trillion, funded 
predominantly by strong deposit growth. Our core deposits grew 

$73.1 billion ($67.2 billion on average) or 8% in 2012. The 

predominant areas of asset growth were in short-term 

investments, which increased $92.9 billion, and loans, which 

increased $29.9 billion. The strong loan growth represents core 

loan growth of $47.7 billion (including retention of $19.4 billion 

of 1-4 family conforming firs
t mortgage production on the 
balance sheet), partially offs
et by the runoff in our non 
strategic/liquidating loan portfolio of $17.8 billion. We also 

increased securities available for 
sale by $12.6 billion in 2012. 
The strength of our business model produced record earnings 

and continued internal capital generation as reflected in our 
capital ratios, substantially all of which improved from 
December 31, 2011. Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total risk-

weighted assets increased to 11
.75%, total capital decreased to 
14.63%, Tier 1 leverage increased to 9.47%, and Tier 1 common 

equity increased to 10.12% at December 31, 2012, compared with 

11.33%, 14.76%, 9.03%, and 9.46%, respectively, at 

December 31, 2011. 

 The following discussion provides additional information 

about the major components of our balance sheet. Information 

regarding our capital and changes in our asset mix is included in 

the “Earnings Performance – Net Interest Income” and “Capital 
Management” sections and Note
 26 (Regulatory and Agency 
Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
 Securities Available for Sale
                   Table 10:  Securities Available for Sale – Summary
     December 31, 
     2012  
   2011 
    Net
  Net 
    unrealized
Fair  unrealized 
Fair
(in millions) 
 Cost
 gainvalue 
 Cost
gain 
value
Debt securities available for sale 
$  220,946  
 11,468 
 232,414  
  212,642 
 6,554  
 219,196 
Marketable equity securities 
  2,337  
 448 
 2,785  
  2,929 
 488  
 3,417 
 Total securities available for sale 
$  223,283  
 11,916 
 235,199  
  215,571 
 7,042  
 222,613 
           Table 10 presents a summary of our securities available-for-
sale portfolio, which consists of 
both debt and marketable equity 
securities. The total net unrealized gains on securities available 
for sale were $11.9 billion at 
December 31, 2012, up from net 
unrealized gains of $7.0 billion at December 31, 2011, due mostly 

to a decline in long-term yields an
d tightening of credit spreads. 
 The size and composition of the available-for-sale portfolio is 
largely dependent upon the Company’s liquidity and interest rate 

risk management objectives. Our 
business generates assets and 
liabilities, such as loans, dep
osits and long-term debt, which 
have different maturities, yields, re-pricing, prepayment 

characteristics and other provisions that expose us to interest 

rate and liquidity risk. The available-for-sale securities portfolio 
consists primarily of liquid, hi
gh quality federal
 agency debt, 
privately issued mortgage-backed
 securities (MBS), securities 
issued by U.S. states and poli
tical subdivisions and corporate 
debt securities. Due to its highly liquid nature, the available-for-
sale portfolio can be used to meet funding needs that arise in the 

normal course of business or due to market stress. Changes in 

our interest rate risk profile may occur due to changes in overall 

economic or market conditions th
at could influence drivers such 
as loan origination demand, pr
epayment speeds, or deposit 
balances and mix. In response, the available-for-sale securities 

portfolio can be rebalanced to meet the Company’s interest rate 

risk management objectives. In a
ddition to meeting liquidity and 
interest rate risk management objectives, the available-for-sale 
securities portfolio may provide yield enhancement over other 

short-term assets. See the “Risk Management - Asset/Liability 
45Balance Sheet Analysis 
(continued)
   Management” section of this Report for more information on 
liquidity and interest rate risk. 

 We analyze securities for OTTI quarterly or more often if a 

potential loss-triggering event occurs. Of the $416 million in 

OTTI write-downs recognized in 2012, $240 million related to 

debt securities. There was $16 mi
llion in OTTI write-downs for 
marketable equity securities an
d $160 million in OTTI write-
downs related to nonmarketable equity investments. For a 

discussion of our OTTI accoun
ting policies and underlying 
considerations and analysis see 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant 
Accounting Policies – Investme
nts) and Note 5 (Securities 
Available for Sale) to Financia
l Statements in this Report. 
 At December 31, 2012, debt securities available for sale 

included $38.7 billion of municipal bonds, of which 82% were 

rated “A-” or better based predominantly on external and, in 

some cases, internal ratings. Addi
tionally, some of the securities 
in our total municipal bond portfolio are guaranteed against loss 

by bond insurers. These guaranteed bonds are predominantly 
investment grade and were generally underwritten in accordance 

with our own investment standards prior to the determination to 

purchase, without relying on the bond insurer’s guarantee in 

making the investment decision
. Our municipal bond holdings 
are monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis of our 
securities available for sale. 
  The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities 
available for sale was 5.5 years 
at December 31, 2012. Because 
57% of this portfolio is MBS, th
e expected remaining maturity is 
shorter than the remaining contractual maturity because 

borrowers generally have the right to prepay obligations before 

the underlying mortgages matur
e. The estimated effect of a 
200 basis point increase or decrease
 in interest rates on the fair 
value and the expected remaining 
maturity of the MBS available 
for sale are shown in Table 11. 
 Table 11:  Mortgage-Backed Securities
       Expected 
     Net 
remaining 
    Fair 
unrealized 
maturity 
(in billions) 
 value 
gain (loss) 
(in years) 
At December 31, 2012 
     Actual 
$  133.2  
 7.7  
 3.7  
 Assuming a 200 basis point: 
     Increase in interest rates 
  123.6  
 (1.9) 
 5.3  
 Decrease in interest rates 
  135.8  
 10.3  
 2.8  
        See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial 
Statements in this Report for securities available for sale by 

security type. 
46    Loan Portfolio 
Total loans were $799.6 billion at December 31, 2012, up 
$29.9 billion from December 31, 2011. Table 12 provides a 

summary of total outstanding loans for our commercial and 

consumer loan portfolios. Excluding the runoff in the non-

strategic/liquidating portfolios of 
$17.8 billion, loans in the core 
portfolio grew $47.7 billion during 2012. Our core loan growth in 

2012 included: 

 an $18.3 billion increase in 
the commercial segment, mostly 
due to growth in commercial
 and industrial loans, which 
included: 
o $6.9 billion from our second quarter 2012 acquisitions 
of BNP Paribas’ North American energy lending 
business and WestLB’s subscription finance loan 

portfolio; and 
o $858 million of commercial 
asset-based loans acquired 
with the acquisition of Bu
rdale Financial Holdings 
Limited (Burdale) and the po
rtfolio of Burdale Capital 
Finance Inc. in first quarter 2012; and 
 a $29.4 billion increase in co
nsumer loans with growth in 
first mortgage (including the retention of $19.4 billion of 1-4 
family conforming first mortga
ges), auto, credit card and 
private student lending. 
  Additional information on the non-strategic and liquidating 
loan portfolios is included in Table 17 in the “Credit Risk 

Management” section of this Report. 

   Table 12:  Loan Portfolios
           December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2011 
(in millions) 
 Core 
Liquidating
Total
 Core 
Liquidating 
Total
Commercial  
$  358,028  
 3,170  
 361,198 
  339,755  
 5,695  
 345,450 
Consumer 
  346,984  
 91,392  
 438,376 
  317,550  
 106,631  
 424,181 
 Total loans 
$  705,012  
 94,562  
 799,574 
  657,305  
 112,326  
 769,631 
              A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative 
detail of average loan balances
 is included in Table 5 under 
“Earnings Performance – Net Interest Income” earlier in this 

Report. Year-end balances and other loan related information 
are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 
Financial Statements in this Report. 
 Table 13 shows contractual loan maturities for selected loan 
categories and sensitivities of th
ose loans to changes in interest 
rates. 
 Table 13:  Maturities for Selected Loan Categories
            December 31, 
      2012 
   2011  
      After 
    After 
       Within
one year 
After 
  Within 
one year 
After 
      one
through 
five 
  one 
through 
five 
 (in millions) 
 yearfive years 
years 
Total 
 year 
five years 
years 
Total 
Selected loan maturities: 
            Commercial and industrial 
$  45,212 
  123,578  
 18,969  
 187,759  
  44,258  
 101,273  
 21,685  
 167,216  
 Real estate mortgage 
  22,328 
  56,085  
 27,927  
 106,340  
  22,537  
 54,201  
 29,237  
 105,975  
 Real estate construction 
  7,685 
  7,961  
 1,258  
 16,904  
  10,059  
 8,178  
 1,145  
 19,382  
 Foreign 
  27,219 
  7,460  
 3,092  
 37,771  
  35,258  
 3,142  
 1,360  
 39,760  
   Total selected loans 
$  102,444 
  195,084  
 51,246  
 348,774  
  112,112  
 166,794  
 53,427  
 332,333  
Distribution of loans due 
            after one year to 
            changes in interest rates: 
             Loans at fixed 
              interest rates 
  $  20,894  
 11,387  
    19,319  
 13,712  
   Loans at floating/variable 
              interest rates 
    174,190  
 39,859  
    147,475  
 39,715  
    Total selected loans 
  $  195,084  
 51,246  
    166,794  
 53,427  
                47Balance Sheet Analysis 
(continued)
   Deposits 
Deposits totaled $1.0 trillion 
at December 31, 2012, compared 
with $920.1 billion at December 31, 2011. Table 14 provides 

additional information regarding deposits. Information 

regarding the impact of deposits
 on net interest income and a 
comparison of average deposit 
balances is provided in 
“Earnings Performance – Net Interest Income” and Table 5 
earlier in this Report. Total core deposits were $945.7 billion at 

December 31, 2012, up $73.1 billion from $872.6 billion at 
December 31, 2011.  
  Table 14:  Deposits
     % of   % of       Dec. 31,
total 
   Dec. 31, 
total
 % ($ in millions) 
  2012 
deposits 
   2011 
 deposits
 Change
 Noninterest-bearing 
$  288,207 
 29  
%  $  243,961  
 26 
%  18  
Interest-bearing checking 
  35,275 
 4  
    37,027  
 4 
  (5) 
Market rate and other savings 
  517,464 
 52  
    485,534  
 53 
  7  
Savings certificates 
  55,966 
 6  
    63,617  
 7 
  (12) 
Foreign deposits (1) 
  48,837 
 4  
    42,490  
 5 
  15  
 Core deposits 
  945,749 
 95  
    872,629  
 95 
  8  
Other time and savings deposits 
  33,755 
 3  
    20,745  
 2 
  63  
Other foreign deposits 
  23,331 
 2  
    26,696  
 3 
  (13) 
  Total deposits 
$  1,002,835 
 100  
%  $  920,070  
 100 
%  9  
(1) Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 In the ordinary course of busi
ness, we engage in financial 
transactions that are not recorded in the balance sheet, or may 

be recorded in the balance sheet in amounts that are different 

from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. 

These transactions are designed 
to (1) meet the financial needs 
of customers, (2) mana
ge our credit, market or liquidity risks, 
(3) diversify our funding sources, 
and/or (4) optimize capital.  
 Off-Balance Sheet Transactio
ns with Unconsolidated 
Entities 
We routinely enter into various types of on- and off-balance 
sheet transactions with special 
purpose entities (SPEs), which 
are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for 

a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection 

with securitization transactions. For more information on 

securitizations, including sales proceeds and cash flows from 

securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable 

Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
 Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements 
Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make 

payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change 

in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are 

generally in the form of standb
y letters of credit, securities 
lending and other indemnificat
ions, liquidity agreements, 
written put options, recourse obligations, residual value 

guarantees and contingent consideration. 

 For more information on guarantees and certain contingent 

arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and 

Collateral) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
48   Contractual Cash Obligations 
In addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements 
previously described, which, depending on the nature of the 

obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we 

enter into other contractual obligations that may require future 

cash payments in the ordinary 
course of business, including 
debt issuances for the funding of operations and leases for 

premises and equipment.  
Table 15 summarizes these contractual obligations as of 
December 31, 2012, excluding the projected cash payments for 

obligations for short-term borrowing arrangements and 

pension and postretirement benefit plans. More information 

on those obligations is in Note 12 (Short-Term Borrowings) 

and Note 20 (Employee Benefi
ts and Other Expenses) to 
Financial Statements 
in this Report.  
 Table 15:  Contractual Cash Obligations
    Note(s) to
    More 
      Financial
 Less than 
1-3 
3-5 
than Indeterminate 
  (in millions) 
Statements
 1 year 
years 
years 
5 years 
maturity 
 Total 
Contractual payments by period:  
         Deposits (1) 
11  $  56,921  
 20,197  
 9,030  
 3,959  
 912,728  
  1,002,835  
 Long-term debt (2) 
7, 13
  15,961  
 28,342  
 31,318  
 51,758  
 -  
  127,379  
 Interest (3) 
  3,056  
 4,415  
 3,206  
 17,498  
 -  
  28,175  
 Operating leases 
7    1,311  
 2,154  
 1,465  
 2,594  
 -  
  7,524  
 Unrecognized tax obligations 
21    19  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 2,725  
  2,744  
 Commitments to purchase debt securities 
    1,523  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
  1,523  
 Purchase and other obligations (4) 
    518  
 727  
 57  
 10  
 -  
  1,312  
  Total contractual obligations 
  $  79,309  
 55,835  
 45,076  
 75,819  
 915,453  
  1,171,492  
(1) Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings accounts. 
(2) 
Balances are presented net of unamortized debt discounts and premiums and purchase accounting adjustments.  
(3) 
Represents the future interest obligations related to interest-bearing time deposits and long-term debt in the normal course of
 business including a net reduction of 
$17 billion related to hedges used to manage interest rate risk. 
These interest obligations assume no early debt redemption. We
 estimated variable interest rate payments 
using December, 31 2012 rates, which we held constant until maturity. We have excluded interest related to structured notes whe
re our payment obligation is contingent on 
the performance of certain benchmarks. 
(4) 
Represents agreements to purchase goods or services. 
              We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states 
and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in 

which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax 

obligations related to these ope
rations that may require future 
cash tax payments to various taxing authorities. Because of 

their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of 

these payments generally are not reasonably estimable or 

determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount payable in 

the next 12 months based on the 
status of our tax examinations 
and settlement discussions. See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for more information. 

 We enter into derivatives,
 which create contractual 
obligations, as part of our interest rate risk management 

process for our customers or for other trading activities. See 

the “Risk Management – Asset/Li
ability” section and Note 16 
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report for more 
information.  
 Transactions with Related Parties 
The Related Party Disclosures topic of the Codification requires 

disclosure of material related party transactions, other than 

compensation arrangements, expense allowances and other 

similar items in the ordinary co
urse of business. We had no 
related party transactions required to be reported for the years 

ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. 
49   Risk Management  All financial institutions must manage and control a variety of 
business risks that can significantly affect their financial 

performance. Among the key risk
s that we must manage are 
credit risks, asset/liability interest rate and market risks, and 

operational risks. Our Board of Directors (Board) and executive 
management have overall and 
ultimate responsibility for 
management of these risks, which they carry out through 

committees with specific and 
well-defined risk management 
functions. For example, the Board’s Credit Committee oversees 

the annual credit quality plan
 and lending policies, credit 
trends, the allowance for credit loss policy, and high risk 

portfolios and concentrations. The Finance Committee 

oversees the Company’s major financial risks, including 

market, interest rate, and liquidity and funding risks, as well as 

equity exposure and fixed in
come investments, and also 
oversees the Company’s capita
l management and planning 
processes. The Audit and Examination Committee oversees 

operational, legal and complian
ce risk, in addition to the 
policies and management activiti
es relating to the Company’s 
financial reporting. The Risk Committee oversees the 

Company’s enterprise-wide risk management framework, 
including the strategies, policies, processes and systems used to 

identify, assess, measure and manage the major risks facing the 

Company. The Risk Committee do
es not duplicate the risk 
oversight of the Board’s other committees, but rather helps 

ensure end-to-end ownership of ov
ersight of all risk issues in 
one Board committee and en
hances the Board’s and 
management’s understanding 
of the Company’s aggregate 
enterprise-wide risk appetite. 

 The Board and its committees work closely with 

management in overseeing 
risk. Each Board committee 
receives reports and information regarding risk issues directly 

from management and, in 
some cases, management 
committees have been establ
ished to inform the risk 
management framework and prov
ide governance and advice 
regarding risk management functions. These management 

committees include the Comp
any’s Operating Committee, 
which consists of the Company’s senior executives who report 

to the CEO and who meet weekly to, among other things, 

discuss strategic, operational and risk issues at the enterprise 

level, and the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, which 
is chaired by the Company’s Ch
ief Risk Officer and includes 
other senior executives responsible for managing risk across 

the Company. Management’s corporate risk organization is 

headed by the Chief Risk Officer who, among other things, 

oversees the Company’s credit, 
market and operational risks. 
The Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Credit, Market and 

Operational Risk Officers, who report to the Chief Risk Officer, 

work closely with the Board’
s Risk, Credit and Audit and 
Examination Committees and frequently provide reports to 

these and other Board committ
ees and update the committee 
chairs and other Board members 
on risk issues outside of 
regular committee meetings, as appropriate. The full Board 

receives reports at each of 
its meetings from the committee 
chairs about committee activities, including risk oversight 

matters, and receives a quarterly report from the Enterprise 
Risk Management Committee re
garding current or emerging 
risk issues. 

 Operating Risk Management 
Effective management 
of operational risks, which include risks 
relating to management information systems, security systems, 

and information security, is also an important focus for 

financial institutions such as Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo and 
reportedly other financial institut
ions have been the target of 
various denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part of what 
appears to be a coordinated effo
rt to disrupt the operations of 
financial institutions and potentia
lly test their cybersecurity in 
advance of future and more ad
vanced cyber attacks. To date 
Wells Fargo has not experienced any material losses relating to 

these or other cyber attacks. 
Cybersecurity and the continued 
development and enhancement of our controls, processes and 

systems to protect our networks, 
computers, software, and data 
from attack, damage or unauthorized acce
ss remain a priority 
for Wells Fargo. See the “Risk Fa
ctors” section of this Report 
for additional information regarding the risks associated with a 

failure or breach of our operational or security systems or 

infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks. 

 Credit Risk Management  
Loans represent the largest component of assets on our balance 

sheet and their related credit risk is among the most significant 

risks we manage. We define credit risk as the risk of loss 

associated with a borrower or counterparty default (failure to 

meet obligations in accordance 
with agreed upon terms). Table 
16 presents our total loans outstanding by portfolio segment 
and class of financing receivable. 
 Table 16:  Total Loans Outstanding by Portfolio Segment and 
Class of Financing Receivable 
                  December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
Commercial: 
   Commercial and industrial 
$  187,759 
  167,216 
 Real estate mortgage 
  106,340 
  105,975 
 Real estate construction 
  16,904 
  19,382 
 Lease financing 
  12,424 
  13,117 
 Foreign (1) 
  37,771 
  39,760 
  Total commercial 
  361,198 
  345,450 
Consumer: 
     Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  249,900 
  228,894 
 Real estate 1-4 family 
      junior lien mortgage
   75,465 
  85,991 
 Credit card 
  24,640 
  22,836 
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  88,371 
  86,460 
  Total consumer 
  438,376 
  424,181 
   Total loans 
$  799,574 
  769,631 
          (1)   Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are 
classified as foreign if the borrower’s primary address is outside of the United 
States.
   50    We manage our credit risk by establishing what we believe 
are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while 

monitoring and reviewing the performance of our existing loan 

portfolios. We employ various 
credit risk management and 
monitoring activities to mitigate
 risks associated with multiple 
risk factors affecting loans we hold, could acquire or originate 

including: 
 Loan concentrations and 
related credit quality 
 Counterparty credit risk 
 Economic and market conditions 
 Legislative or regulatory mandates 
 Changes in interest rates 
 Merger and acquisition activities 
 Reputation risk 
  Our credit risk management ov
ersight process is governed 
centrally, but provides for de
centralized management and 
accountability by our lines of 
business. Our overall credit 
process includes comprehensive 
credit policies
, disciplined 
credit underwriting, frequent 
and detailed risk measurement 
and modeling, extensive credit
 training programs, and a 
continual loan review 
and audit process. 
A key to our credit risk manage
ment is adherence to a well 
controlled underwriting process, which we believe is 
appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors 
who purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans. 
 Non-Strategic and Liquidating Loan Portfolios
  We continually evaluate and modify 
our credit policies to address 
appropriate levels of risk. We may designate certain portfolios 

and loan products as non-strategic or liquidating to cease their 

continued origination as we acti
vely work to limit losses and 
reduce our exposures. 
 Table 17 identifies our non-strategic and liquidating loan 
portfolios. They consist primarily
 of the Pick-a-Pay mortgage 
portfolio and PCI loans acquired from Wachovia, certain 

portfolios from legacy Wells Fargo Home Equity and Wells 

Fargo Financial, and our education finance government 

guaranteed loan portfolio. The total balance of our non-

strategic and liquidating loan 
portfolios has decreased 50% 
since the merger with Wachovia
 at December 31, 2008, and 
decreased 16% from the end of 2011. 
 The home equity portfolio of loans generated through third 

party channels is designated 
as liquidating. Additional 
information regarding this portfolio, as well as the liquidating 

PCI and Pick-a-Pay loan portfolios, is provided in the 

discussion of loan portfolios that follows.   
 Table 17:  Non-Strategic and Liquidating Loan Portfolios
       Outstanding balance
        December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2010  
 2009 
 2008  
Commercial: 
     Legacy Wachovia commercial and industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans (1) 
$  3,170 
 5,695 
  7,935  
 12,988 
 18,704  
  Total commercial 
  3,170 
 5,695 
  7,935  
 12,988 
 18,704  
Consumer: 
        Pick-a-Pay mortgage (1) 
  58,274 
 65,652 
  74,815  
 85,238 
 95,315  
 Liquidating home equity 
  4,647 
 5,710 
  6,904  
 8,429 
 10,309  
 Legacy Wells Fargo Financial indirect auto 
  830 
 2,455 
  6,002  
 11,253 
 18,221  
 Legacy Wells Fargo Financial debt consolidation 
  14,519 
 16,542 
  19,020  
 22,364 
 25,299  
 Education Finance - government guaranteed  
  12,465 
 15,376 
  17,510  
 21,150 
 20,465  
 Legacy Wachovia other PCI loans (1) 
  657 
 896 
  1,118  
 1,688 
 2,478  
  Total consumer 
  91,392 
 106,631 
  125,369  
 150,122 
 172,087  
   Total non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios 
$  94,562 
 112,326 
  133,304  
 163,110 
 190,791  
(1) Net of purchase accounting adjustments related to PCI loans. 
           PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
  Loans acquired 
with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and 

where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually 

required principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI 

loans are recorded at fair value at
 the date of acquisition, and the 
historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not 

carried over. Such loans are considered to be accruing due to the 

existence of the accretable yiel
d and not based on consideration 
given to contractual interest payments. Substantially all of our 

PCI loans were acquired in 
the Wachovia acquisition on 
December 31, 2008.  
 A nonaccretable difference is
 established for PCI loans to 
absorb losses expected on those loa
ns at the date of acquisition. 
Amounts absorbed by the nonaccret
able difference do not affect 
the income statement or the allowance for credit losses. 

 Substantially all co
mmercial and industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, 

Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated 
into pools based on common risk characteristics. Each pool is 

accounted for as a single asset wi
th a single composite interest 
rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. 

 Resolutions of loans may include sales to third parties, 

receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or 

foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an 

individual PCI loan from a pool 
based on comparing the amount 
received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any 
51Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   difference between these amounts is absorbed by the 
nonaccretable difference. This
 removal method assumes  
that the amount received from resolution approximates pool 
performance expectations. The accr
etable yield percentage is  
unaffected by the resolution and any changes in the effective 

yield for the remaining loans in the pool are addressed by our 

quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans 

that are resolved by payment in full, there is no release of the 

nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no 

difference between the amount received at resolution and the 

contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not 

removed from a pool even if 
those loans would otherwise be 
deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for 

individually are TDRs, and remo
ved from PCI accounting, if 
there has been a concession granted in excess of the original 

nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in our 

impaired loans. 

  During 2012, we recognized as 
income $85 million released 
from the nonaccretable differenc
e related to commercial PCI 
loans due to payoffs and other resolutions. We also transferred 

$1.1 billion from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable 

yield for PCI loans with improvin
g credit-related cash flows and 
absorbed $2.5 billion of losses in the nonaccretable difference 

from loan resolutions and write-downs. Our cash flows expected 

to be collected have been favorab
ly affected by lower expected 
defaults and losses as a result of observed economic 

strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and our loan 

modification efforts. See the “R
eal Estate 1-4 Family First and 
Junior Lien Mortgage Loans” 
section in this Report for 
additional information. These fa
ctors led to the reduction in 
expected losses on PCI loans, primarily Pick-a-Pay, which 

resulted in a reclassification 
from nonaccretable difference to 
accretable yield in 2012, which ha
s also occurred in prior years. 
Table 18 provides an analysis 
of changes in the nonaccretable 
difference. 
52   Table 18:  Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans
         Other (in millions) 
Commercial
Pick-a-Pay 
consumer
Total 
Balance, December 31, 2008 
$  10,410 
 26,485  
 4,069 
 40,964  
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1) 
  (330)
 -  
 - 
 (330) 
 Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2) 
  (86)
 -  
 (85)
 (171) 
 Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3) 
  (138)
 (27) 
 (276)
 (441) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4) 
  (4,853)
 (10,218) 
 (2,086)
 (17,157) 
Balance, December 31, 2009 
  5,003 
 16,240  
 1,622 
 22,865  
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1) 
  (817)
 -  
 - 
 (817) 
 Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2) 
  (172)
 -  
 - 
 (172) 
 Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3) 
  (726)
 (2,356) 
 (317)
 (3,399) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4) 
  (1,698)
 (2,959) 
 (391)
 (5,048) 
Balance, December 31, 2010 
  1,590 
 10,925  
 914 
 13,429  
Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions 
  188 
 -  
 - 
 188  
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1) 
  (198)
 -  
 - 
 (198) 
 Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2) 
  (41)
 -  
 - 
 (41) 
 Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3) 
  (352)
 -  
 (21)
 (373) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4) 
  (258)
 (1,799) 
 (241)
 (2,298) 
Balance, December 31, 2011
   929 
 9,126  
 652 
 10,707  
Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions 
  7 
 -   -  7  
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1) 
  (81)
 -   -  (81) 
 Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2) 
  (4)
 -   -  (4) 
 Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3) 
  (315)
 (648) 
 (178)
 (1,141) 
Use of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4)(5) 
  (114)
 (2,246) 
 (164)
 (2,524) 
Balance, December 31, 2012 
$  422 
 6,232  
 310 
 6,964  
(1) Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest i
ncome in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay 
and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due to pool accoun
ting for those loans, which assumes that the 
amount received approximates the pool performance expectations. 
(2) 
Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the
 sale. 
(3) 
Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield 
for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in in
creased interest income as a prospective yield 
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans.  
(4) 
Write-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are absorbed by the nonaccretable difference when severe delinquency (normally
 180 days) or other indications of severe 
borrower financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the lo
an. 
(5) 
The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $462 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which req
uires consumer loans discharged in 
bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status. 
53Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    Since December 31, 2008, we have released $7.2 billion in 
nonaccretable difference, including $5.4 billion transferred from 

the nonaccretable difference to
 the accretable yield and 
$1.8 billion released to income through loan resolutions. Also, 
we have provided $1.8 billion for losses on certain PCI loans or 

pools of PCI loans that have had 
credit-related decreases to cash 
flows expected to be collected. The net result is a $5.4 billion 

reduction from December 31, 2
008, through December 31, 2012, 
in our initial projected losses of $41.0 billion on all PCI loans. 
  At December 31, 2012, the allowance for credit losses on 
certain PCI loans was $117 million. The allowance is necessary to 

absorb credit-related 
decreases in cash flows expected to be 
collected and primarily relates 
to individual PCI commercial 
loans. Table 19 analyzes the actual and projected loss results on 

PCI loans since acquisition through December 31, 2012. 

 For additional information on PCI loans, see Note 1 

(Summary of Significant Accoun
ting Policies – Loans) and 
Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. 
 Table 19:  Actual and Projected Loss Results on PCI Loans Since Acquisition of Wachovia
                     Other 
 (in millions) 
 Commercial 
Pick-a-Pay 
consumer 
Total 
Release of nonaccretable difference due to: 
      Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1) 
$  1,426  
 -  
 -  
 1,426  
 Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2) 
  303  
 -  
 85  
 388  
 Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related cash flows (3) 
  1,531  
 3,031  
 792  
 5,354  
  Total releases of nonaccretable difference due to better than expected losses 
  3,260  
 3,031  
 877  
 7,168  
Provision for losses due to credit deterioration (4) 
  (1,693) 
 -  
 (123) 
 (1,816) 
   Actual and projected losses on PCI loans less than originally expected 
$  1,567  
 3,031  
 754  
 5,352  
(1) Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest i
ncome in the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay 
and Other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due to pool accoun
ting for those loans, which assumes that the 
amount received approximates the pool performance expectations. 
(2) 
Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the
 sale. 
(3) 
Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield 
for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in in
creased interest income as a prospective yield 
adjustment over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans.  
(4) 
Provision for additional losses is recorded as a charge to income when it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be colle
cted for a PCI loan or pool of loans may not 
support full realization of the carrying value. 
           Significant Portfolio Reviews
  Measuring and monitoring our 
credit risk is an ongoing process that tracks delinquencies, 

collateral values, FICO scores, economic trends by geographic 

areas, loan-level risk grading for certain portfolios (typically 
commercial) and other indications of
 credit risk. Our credit risk 
monitoring process is designed to
 enable early identification of 
developing risk and to support our determination of an 

appropriate allowance for credit losses. The following discussion 

provides additional characteristics and analysis of our significant 

portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Repo
rt for more analysis and credit 
metric information. 
 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS AND LEASE 

FINANCING
  For purposes of portfolio risk management, we 
aggregate commercial and industrial loans and lease financing 
according to market segmentation and standard industry 

codes. Table 20 summarizes co
mmercial and industrial loans 
and lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual 

totals. We generally subject commercial and industrial loans and 

lease financing to individual risk assessment using our internal 

borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned 

to pass and criticized categories 
with our criticized categories 
aligned to special mention, subs
tandard and doubtf
ul categories 
as defined by bank 
regulatory agencies. 
  Across our non-PCI commercial loans and leases, the 
commercial and industrial loans and lease financing portfolio 
generally experienced credit improvement in 2012. Of the total 

commercial and industrial loans and lease financing non-PCI 

portfolio, 0.02% was 90 days or 
more past due and still accruing 
at December 31, 2012, compared with 0.09% at 

December 31, 2011, 0.72% (1.22% at December 31, 2011) was 
nonaccruing and 9.43% (12.5% 
at December 31, 2011) was 
criticized. The net charge-off rate for this portfolio declined to 

0.46% in 2012 from 0.70% for 2011.  
A majority of our commercial and industrial loans and lease 
financing portfolio is secured by short-term assets, such as 

accounts receivable, inventory and securities, as well as long-

lived assets, such as equipment and other business assets. 

Generally, the collateral securing
 this portfolio represents a 
secondary source of repaymen
t. See Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report for additional credit metric information.  
54    Table 20:  Commercial and Industrial Loans and Lease 
Financing by Industry
     December 31, 2012 
      % of 
    Nonaccrual
Total 
total 
 (in millions)
 loans
portfolio (1) 
loans 
 PCI loans (1): 
    Healthcare 
$  - 
 48  
 * % Technology 
  - 
 39  
 *  Aerospace and defense 
  - 
 37  
 *  Home furnishings 
  - 
 23  
 *  Steel and metal products 
  - 
 22  
 *  Leisure 
  - 
 17  
 *  Other 
  - 
 73  
(2) 
*   Total PCI loans 
$  - 
 259  
 * % All other loans:
       Oil and gas 
$  36 
 13,634  
  2  
% Investors 
  2 
 13,570  
  2  
 Cyclical retailers 
  30 
 12,459  
  2  
 Financial institutions 
  76 
 12,228  
  2  
 Food and beverage 
  42 
 11,804  
  1  
 Healthcare 
  39 
 10,044  
  1  
 Industrial equipment 
  50 
 9,941  
  1  
 Real estate lessor 
  32 
 9,370  
  1  
 Technology 
  20 
 6,767  
 *  Transportation 
  12 
 6,597  
 *  Business services 
  30 
 5,754  
 *  Securities firms 
  65 
 5,534  
 *  Other 
  1,015 
 82,222  
(3) 
 10  
  Total all other loans 
$  1,449 
 199,924  
  25  
%   Total 
$  1,449 
 200,183  
  25  
% * Less than 1%. 
(1) For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value. PCI loans are considered to be 
accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on 
consideration given to contractual interest payments. 
(2) No other single category had loans in excess of $11.4 million. 
(3) No other single category had loans in excess of $4.7 billion. 
   During the current credit cycl
e, we have experienced an 
increase in loans requiring risk 
mitigation activities including 
the restructuring of loan terms and requests for extensions of 

commercial and industrial and CRE loans. All actions are based 

on a re-underwriting of the loan and our assessment of the 
borrower’s ability to perform under the agreed-upon terms. 

Extension terms generally range from six to thirty-six months 

and may require that the borrower provide additional economic 

support in the form of partial repayment, or additional collateral 

or guarantees. In cases where the value of collateral or financial 

condition of the borrower is insufficient to repay our loan, we 

may rely upon the support of an outside repayment guarantee in 

providing the extension. 

 Our ability to seek performance under a guarantee is directly 

related to the guarantor’s creditworthiness, capacity and 

willingness to perform, which is evaluated on an annual basis, or 

more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the 

most current financial information available and is focused on 
various key financial metrics, including net worth, leverage, and 
current and future liquidity. We consider the guarantor’s 

reputation, creditworthiness, and willingness to work with us 

based on our analysis as well as other lenders’ experience with 

the guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor’s credit strength 
is reflected in our loan risk ratings for such loans. The loan risk 
rating and accruing status are important factors in our allowance 

methodology for commercial an
d industrial and CRE loans. 
 In considering the
 accrual status of the loan, we evaluate the 
collateral and future cash flows as well as the anticipated support 

of any repayment guarantor. In many cases the strength of the 

guarantor provides sufficient assurance that full repayment of 

the loan is expected. When full and timely collection of the loan 

becomes uncertain, including the performance of the guarantor, 

we place the loan on nonaccrual status. As appropriate, we also 

charge the loan down in accordance with our charge-off policies, 

generally to the net realizable value of the collateral securing the 

loan, if any. 

 At the time of restructuring,
 we evaluate whether the loan 
should be classified as a TDR,
 and account for 
it accordingly.
 For 
more information on TDRs, see
 “Troubled Debt 
Restructurings” 
later in this section and Note 6 
(Loans and Allowance for Credit 
Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE (CRE)  
The CRE portfolio, consisting 
of both CRE mortgage loans and CRE construction loans, totaled 

$123.2 billion, or 15%, of total loans at December 31, 2012. CRE 

construction loans totaled $16.9 billion and CRE mortgage loans 

totaled $106.3 billion at December 31, 2012. Table 21 

summarizes CRE loans by state and property type with the 

related nonaccrual totals. CRE no
naccrual loans to
taled 4% of 
the non-PCI CRE outstanding balance at December 31, 2012 

compared with 5% at December 31, 2011. The portfolio is 

diversified both geographically an
d by property type. The largest 
geographic concentrations of combined CRE loans are in 

California and Florida, which represented 27% and 9% of the 

total CRE portfolio, respectively
. By property type, the largest 
concentrations are office buildings at 26% and 

industrial/warehouse at 10% of the portfolio. At 

December 31, 2012, we had $17.2 billion of criticized non-PCI 
CRE mortgage loans, a decrease of 24% from December 31, 2011, 

and $3.8 billion of criticized no
n-PCI CRE construction loans, a 
decrease of 44% from December 
31, 2011. See Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report for additional information on criticized loans.  

 At December 31, 2012, the re
corded investment in PCI CRE 
loans totaled $2.8 billion, down from $12.3 billion when 
acquired at December 31, 2008, reflecting the reduction 

resulting from principal payments, loan resolutions and write-

downs. 
55Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   Table 21:  CRE Loans by State and Property Type
     December 31, 2012 
    Real estate mortgage
 Real estate construction 
Total 
 % of     Nonaccrual 
Total 
 Nonaccrual 
Total 
Nonaccrual 
Total 
 total
 (in millions) 
 loans 
portfolio (1) 
 loans 
portfolio (1) 
loans 
portfolio (1) 
 loans
 By state: 
           PCI loans (1):
            New York 
$  -  
 438  
  -  
 91  
  -  
 529  
 *% Florida 
  -  
 290  
  -  
 150  
  -  
 440  
 * California 
  -  
 302  
  -  
 52  
  -  
 354  
 * Pennsylvania 
  -  
 112  
  -  
 93  
  -  
 205  
 * Texas 
  -  
 120  
  -  
 65  
  -  
 185  
 * Other 
  -  
 708  
  -  
 426  
  -  
 1,134  
 (2) 
*  Total PCI loans 
$  -  
 1,970  
  -  
 877  
  -  
 2,847  
 *% All other loans:
             California 
$  794  
 29,291  
  157  
 3,301  
  951  
 32,592  
  4 
% Florida 
  374  
 8,800  
  133  
 1,353  
  507  
 10,153  
  1 
 Texas 
  283  
 7,708  
  32  
 1,416  
  315  
 9,124  
  1 
 New York 
  35  
 6,561  
  2  
 880  
  37  
 7,441  
 * North Carolina 
  228  
 4,003  
  84  
 921  
  312  
 4,924  
 * Arizona 
  129  
 4,265  
  28  
 489  
  157  
 4,754  
 * Georgia 
  222  
 3,276  
  78  
 509  
  300  
 3,785  
 * Virginia 
  84  
 2,677  
  28  
 981  
  112  
 3,658  
 * Washington 
  32  
 2,869  
  17  
 508  
  49  
 3,377  
 * Colorado 
  146  
 2,875  
  16  
 427  
  162  
 3,302  
 * Other    995  
 32,045  
  428  
 5,242  
  1,423  
 37,287  
 (3) 
 5 
  Total all other loans 
$  3,322  
 104,370  
  1,003  
 16,027  
  4,325  
 120,397  
  15 
%   Total 
$  3,322  
 106,340  
  1,003  
 16,904  
  4,325  
 123,244  
  15 
% By property: 
           PCI loans (1):
            Office buildings 
$  -  
 646  
  -  
 85  
  -  
 731  
 *% Apartments 
  -  
 474  
  -  
 120  
  -  
 594  
 * Retail (excluding shopping center) 
  -  
 360  
  -  
 5  
  -  
 365  
 * Shopping center 
  -  
 167  
  -  
 83  
  -  
 250  
 * 1-4 family land 
  -  
 -  
  -  
 187  
  -  
 187  
 * Other    -  
 323  
  -  
 397  
  -  
 720  
 *  Total PCI loans 
$  -  
 1,970  
  -  
 877  
  -  
 2,847  
 *% All other loans:
             Office buildings 
$  803  
 30,009  
  74  
 1,040  
  877  
 31,049  
  4 
% Industrial/warehouse 
  432  
 12,130  
  20  
 477  
  452  
 12,607  
  2 
 Apartments 
  165  
 9,873  
  20  
 1,679  
  185  
 11,552  
  1 
 Retail (excluding shopping center) 
  439  
 10,590  
  40  
 323  
  479  
 10,913  
  1 
 Real estate - other 
  363  
 10,212  
  52  
 353  
  415  
 10,565  
  1 
 Shopping center 
  353  
 10,008  
  35  
 537  
  388  
 10,545  
  1 
 Hotel/motel 
  166  
 8,250  
  30  
 687  
  196  
 8,937  
  1 
 Land (excluding 1-4 family) 
  5  
 94  
  248  
 7,380  
  253  
 7,474  
 * Institutional 
  91  
 2,764  
  -  
 328  
  91  
 3,092  
 * Agriculture 
  157  
 2,614  
  -  
 17  
  157  
 2,631  
 * Other    348  
 7,826  
  484  
 3,206  
  832  
 11,032  
  1 
  Total all other loans 
$  3,322  
 104,370  
  1,003  
 16,027  
  4,325  
 120,397  
  15 
%   Total 
$  3,322  
 106,340  
  1,003  
 16,904  
  4,325  
 123,244  
  15 
% * Less than 1%. 
(1) For PCI loans, amounts represent carrying value. PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable
 yield and not based on consideration given 
to contractual interest payments. 
(2) Includes 32 states; no state had loans in excess of $157 million. 
(3) Includes 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $2.9 billion.
 56   FOREIGN LOANS AND EUROPEAN EXPOSURE
  We classify 
loans as foreign if the borrower’s primary address is outside of 

the United States. At December 31, 2012, foreign loans totaled 

$37.8 billion, representing approximately 5% of our total 

consolidated loans outstanding and approximately 3% of our 

total assets.  

 Our foreign country risk monitoring process incorporates 
frequent dialogue with our foreign financial institution 

customers, counterparties and with regulatory agencies, 

enhanced by centralized monitoring of macroeconomic and 

capital markets conditions. We establish exposure limits for 

each country through a centraliz
ed oversight process based on 
the needs of our customers, and in consideration of relevant 

economic, political, social, legal, and transfer risks. We monitor 

exposures closely and adjust our li
mits in response to changing 
conditions. 

 We evaluate our individual country risk exposure on an 

ultimate country of risk basis 
which is normally based on the 
country of residence of the guarantor or collateral location. Our 

largest foreign country exposure on an ultimate risk basis was 

the United Kingdom, which 
amounted to approximately 
$15.9 billion, or 1% of our total assets, and included $2.3 

billion of sovereign claims. 
Our United Kingdom sovereign 
claims arise primarily from depo
sits we have placed with the 
Bank of England pursuant to regulatory requirements in 

support of our London branch. 
 At December 31, 2012, our Eurozone exposure, including 
cross-border claims on an ulti
mate risk basis, and foreign 
exchange and derivative products, aggregated approximately 

$10.5 billion, including $232 million of sovereign claims, 

compared with approximately $11.4 billion at 

December 31, 2011, which included $364 million of sovereign 
claims. Our Eurozone exposure is relatively small compared to 

our overall credit risk exposure and is diverse by country, type, 

and counterparty. 

 We conduct periodic stress tests of our significant country 

risk exposures, analyzing the dire
ct and indirect impacts on the 
risk of loss from various macr
oeconomic and capital markets 
scenarios. We do not have significant exposure to foreign 

country risks because our foreign portfolio is relatively small. 

However, we have identified exposure to increased loss from 

U.S. borrowers associated with
 the potential impact of a 
European downturn on
 the U.S. economy. We mitigate these 
potential impacts on the risk of loss through our normal risk 

management processes which include active monitoring and, if 

necessary, the application of aggressive loss mitigation 

strategies.  

 Table 22 provides information regarding our exposures to 

European sovereign entities an
d institutions located within 
such countries, including cross-
border claims on
 an ultimate 
risk basis, and foreign exchange and derivative products.  
 Table 22:  European Exposure
         Lending (1)(2) 
 Securities (3) 
 Derivatives and other (4)
 Total exposure 
        Non- 
 Non- 
 Non-
 Non- 
(in millions)
  Sovereign
sovereign 
 Sovereign
sovereign 
 Sovereign
sovereign
 Sovereign
sovereign (5) 
Total
December 31, 2012 
              Eurozone
                Netherlands
 $  -  2,542  
  -  334  
  -  18   -   2,894  
 2,894 
 Germany
   61  1,934  
  -  210  
  -  159   61   2,303  
 2,364 
 France
   27  920  
  -  461  
  -  147   27   1,528  
 1,555 
 Luxembourg
   -  891  
  -  82  
  -  5   -   978  
 978  Ireland
   39  721  
  -  37  
  -  41   39   799  
 838  Spain
   -  735  
  -  59  
  -  3   -   797  
 797  Austria
   105  250  
  -  6  
  -  -   105   256  
 361  Italy
   -  238  
  -  88  
  -  1   -   327  
 327  Belgium
   -  156  
  -  32  
  -  9   -   197  
 197  Other (6)
   -  104  
  -  82  
  -  2   -   188  
 188   Total Eurozone exposure
   232  8,491  
  -  1,391  
  -  385   232  10,267  
 10,499 
United Kingdom 
  2,274 
 6,541  
  -  6,492  
  -  574   2,274 
  13,607  
 15,881 
Other European countries 
  -  3,887  
  10  250  
  12  564   22   4,701  
 4,723 
   Total European exposure
 $  2,506 
 18,919  
  10  8,133  
  12  1,523 
  2,528 
  28,575  
 31,103 
                     (1) Lending exposure includes funded loans and unfunded commitments, leveraged leases, and money market placements presented on a g
ross basis prior to the deduction of 
impairment allowance and collateral received under the terms of the credit agreements.  
(2) 
Includes $871 million in PCI loans, largely to customers in Germany and United Kingdom territories, and $2.4 billion in defease
d leases secured predominantly by U.S. 
Treasury and government agency securities, or government guaranteed.  
(3) 
Represents issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity securities, held in trading or available-for-sale portfolio, at fair
 value. 
(4) 
Represents counterparty exposure on foreign exchange and derivative contracts, and securities resale and lending agreements. Th
is exposure is presented net of 
counterparty netting adjustments and reduced by the amount of cash collateral. It includes credit default swaps (CDS) predomina
ntly used to manage our U.S. and London-
based cash credit trading businesses, which sometimes results in 
selling and purchasing protection on the identical reference e
ntity. Generally, we do not use market 
instruments such as CDS to hedge the credit risk of our investment or loan positions, although we do use them to manage risk in
 our trading businesses. At 
December 31, 2012, the gross notional amount of our CDS sold that reference assets domiciled in Europe was $7.5 billion, which 
was offset by the notional amount of CDS 
purchased of $7.6 billion. We did not have any CDS purchased or sold where the reference asset was solely the sovereign debt of
 a European country. Certain CDS purchased 
or sold reference pools of assets that contain sovereign debt, however the amount of referenced sovereign European debt was ins
ignificant at December 31, 2012. 
(5) 
Total non-sovereign exposure comprises $13.1 billion exposure to financial institutions and $15.5 billion to non-financial corp
orations at December 31, 2012. 
(6) 
Includes non-sovereign exposure to Greece and Portugal in the amount of $6 million and $30 million, respectively. We had no sov
ereign debt exposure to these countries at 
December 31, 2012. 
57Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN MORTGAGE 
LOANS
  Our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage 
loans primarily include loans we
 have made to customers and 
retained as part of our asset liability management strategy. 

These loans also include the Pick-a-Pay portfolio acquired from 

Wachovia and the home equity portfolio, which are discussed 

later in this Report. In addition, these loans include other 

purchased loans and loans included
 on our balance sheet due to 
the adoption of consolidation a
ccounting guidance related to 
variable interest entities (VIEs).  

 Our underwriting and periodic review of loans collateralized 

by residential real property includes appraisals or estimates 

from automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property 

values. AVMs are computer-based
 tools used to estimate the 
market value of homes. AVMs are a lower-cost alternative to 

appraisals and support valuations of large numbers of properties 

in a short period of time using market comparables and price 

trends for local market areas. The primary risk associated with 

the use of AVMs is that the valu
e of an individual property may 
vary significantly from the average for the market area. We have 

processes to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk 

management guideline
s addressing the circumstances when 
AVMs may be used. AVMs are generally used in underwriting to 

support property values on loan originations only where the loan 
amount is under $250,000. We
 generally require property 
visitation appraisals by a qualified independent appraiser for 

larger residential property loans.  

 Some of our real estate 1-4 
family first and junior lien 
mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the 

loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 18% of 

total loans at December 31, 2012, compared with 21% at 

December 31, 2011.  

 We believe we have manageable adjustable-rate mortgage 

(ARM) reset risk across our owned mortgage loan portfolios. We 

do not offer option ARM products, nor do we offer variable-rate 

mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly 

referred to within the financial services industry as negative 

amortizing mortgage loans. Our liquidating option ARM 

portfolio was acquired from Wach
ovia. Since our acquisition of 
the Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio at
 the end of 2008, we have 
reduced the option payment portio
n of the portfolio, from 86% 
to 49% of the portfolio at December 31, 2012. For more 

information, see the “Pick-a-Pay Portfolio” section in this 
Report. 
 We continue to modify real esta
te 1-4 family 
mortgage loans 
to assist homeowners and other borrowers in the current 

difficult economic cycle. Loans are underwritten at the time of 

the modification in accordance
 with underwriting guidelines 
established for governmental an
d proprietary loa
n modification 
programs. As a participant in the U.S. Treasury’s Making Home 

Affordable (MHA) programs, we are focused on helping 

customers stay in their home
s. The MHA programs create a 
standardization of modification 
terms including incentives paid 
to borrowers, servicers, and investors. MHA includes the Home 

Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) for first lien loans and 

the Second Lien Modification 
Program (2MP) for junior lien 
loans. Under both our proprietary programs and the MHA 

programs, we may provide concessions such as interest rate 
reductions, forbearance of principal, and in some cases, 
principal forgiveness. These programs generally include trial 

payment periods of three to four months, and after successful 

completion and compliance with 
terms during this period, the 
loan is permanently modified. 
During both the trial payment 
period and/or permanent modification period, the loan is 
accounted for as a TDR loan. As
 announced in February 2012, 
we reached a settlement regarding our mortgage servicing and 

foreclosure practices with the DOJ and other federal and state 

government entities, which became effective on April 5, 2012, 

where we committed to provide re
lief to borrowers with real 
estate 1-4 family first and junior
 lien mortgage loans. Also, in 
January 2013, we announced the IFR settlement under which, 

we will provide foreclosure prevention actions that may include 

modifications for borrowers. See the “Risk Management – Credit 
Risk Management – Risks Relating to Servicing Activities” 

section in this Report for mo
re details. In addition, as 
announced in October 2010, we entered into agreements with 

certain state attorneys general whereby we agreed to offer loan 

modifications to eligible Pi
ck-a-Pay customers through 
June 2013. These Pick-a-Pay specific agreements cover the 

majority of our option payment loan portfolio and require that 

we offer modifications (both HAMP
 and proprietary) to eligible 
customers with the option payment loan product. See Note 1 

(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial 

Statements in this Re
port for discussion on how we determine 
the allowance attributable to our modified residential real estate 

portfolios. 

 Real estate 1-4 family first an
d junior lien mortgage loans by 
state are presented in Table 23. Our real estate 1-4 family 

mortgage loans to borrowers in California represented 

approximately 13% of total loans (2% of this amount were PCI 

loans from Wachovia) at December 31, 2012, located mostly 

within the larger metropolitan are
as, with no single California 
metropolitan area consisting of mo
re than 3% of total loans. We 
monitor changes in real estate 
values and underlying economic 
or market conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate  

1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of our credit risk 

management process. 
Part of our credit monitoring includes tracking delinquency, 
FICO scores and collateral values (LTV/CLTV) on the entire real 

estate 1-4 family mortgage loan
 portfolio. These credit risk 
indicators, which exclude government insured/guaranteed loans, 
continued to improve in 2012 on the non-PCI mortgage 

portfolio. Loans 30 days or more delinquent at 

December 31, 2012, totaled $15.5 billion, or 5%, of total non-PCI 
mortgages, compared with 
$18.4 billion, or 6%, at 
December 31, 2011. Loans with FICO scores lower than 640 
totaled $37.7 billion at December 31, 2012, or 13% of total non-

PCI mortgages, compared with 
$44.1 billion, or 15%, at 
December 31, 2011. Mortgages wi
th a LTV/CLTV greater than 
100% totaled $58.7 billion at Dece
mber 31, 2012, or 20% of total 
non-PCI mortgages, compared with $74.2 billion, or 26%, at 

December 31, 2011. Information re
garding credit risk indicators 
can be found in Note 6 (Loans 
and Allowance for Credit Losses) 
to Financial Statements in this Report. 
We monitor the credit performance of our junior lien 
mortgage portfolio for trends 
and factors that influence the 
58   frequency and severity of loss. In first quarter 2012, in 
accordance with Interagency Supervisory Guidance on 
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Estimation Practices for 

Loans and Lines of Credit Secured by Junior Liens on 1-4 
Family Residential Properties
 issued by bank regulators on 
January 31, 2012 (Interagency Guidance), we aligned our 

nonaccrual reporting so that a junior lien is reported as a 

nonaccrual loan if the related first li
en is 120 days past due or is 
in the process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien 

delinquency status. This action 
had minimal financial impact as 
the expected loss content of these loans was already considered 

in the allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2012, 

$960 million of performing junior liens subordinate to 

delinquent senior liens were classified as nonaccrual. For 

additional information, see No
te 1 (Summary of Significant 
Accounting Policies) to Financia
l Statements in this Report. 
In addition, credit metrics fo
r 2012 were affected by the 
guidance in the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) 

update to the Bank Accounting 
Advisory Series (OCC guidance) 
issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans 

discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable 

collateral value and classified as nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of 

their delinquency status. At Dece
mber 31, 2012, $1.8 billion of 
the loans affected were classified
 as nonaccrual and $5.2 billion 
were reported as TDRs. The OCC guidance also increased 

charge-offs by $888 million in 2012. Loans affected were 

predominantly real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans.   

  See the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management – 
Nonperforming Assets” section in this Report for more 

information. 
 Table 23:  Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien 
Mortgage Loans by State
      December 31, 2012 
     Real estate 
Real estate
Total real 
      1-4 family 
1-4 family
estate 1-4 
% of 
     first 
junior lien
family 
total 
 (in millions) 
 mortgage 
mortgage
mortgage 
loans 
 PCI loans:
      California 
$  17,372  
 33 
 17,405  
 2  
% Florida 
  2,383  
 26 
 2,409  
*  New Jersey 
  1,254  
 19 
 1,273  
*  Other (1) 
  5,830  
 74 
 5,904  
*   Total PCI loans 
$  26,839  
 152 
 26,991  
 3  
% All other loans:
      California 
$  64,466  
 21,017 
 85,483  
 11  
% Florida 
  15,509  
 6,752 
 22,261  
 3  
 New Jersey 
  9,731  
 5,646 
 15,377  
 2  
 New York 
  11,574  
 3,214 
 14,788  
 2  
 Virginia 
  6,742  
 3,944 
 10,686  
 1  
 Pennsylvania 
  6,072  
 3,519 
 9,591  
 1  
 North Carolina 
  6,050  
 3,180 
 9,230  
 1  
 Texas 
  7,528  
 1,115 
 8,643  
 1  
 Georgia 
  4,869  
 2,958 
 7,827  
 1  
 Other (2) 
  60,801  
 23,968 
 84,769  
 11  
 Government insured/ 
       guaranteed loans (3) 
  29,719  
 - 
 29,719  
 4  
  Total all 
       other loans 
$  223,061  
 75,313 
 298,374  
 38  
%   Total 
$  249,900  
 75,465 
 325,365  
 41  
% * Less than 1%. 
(1) Consists of 45 states; no state had loans in excess of $710 million. 
(2) Consists of 41 states; no state had loans in excess of $7.0 billion. 
(3) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA. 
59Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    Pick-a-Pay Portfolio
  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio was one of the 
consumer residential first mortgage portfolios we acquired from 

Wachovia and a majority of the 
portfolio was identified as PCI 
loans. 

 The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes loans that offer payment 

options (Pick-a-Pay option paym
ent loans), and also includes 
loans that were originated with
out the option payment feature, 
loans that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our 
modification efforts since the acquisition, and loans where the 
customer voluntarily converted to a fixed-rate product. The Pick-

a-Pay portfolio is included in the 
consumer real es
tate 1-4 family 
first mortgage class of loans throughout this Report. Real estate 

1-4 family junior lien mortgages 
and lines of credit associated 
with Pick-a-Pay loans are reported
 in the home equity portfolio. 
Table 24 provides balances by types of loans as of 

December 31, 2012, as a result of
 modification efforts, compared 
to the types of loans included in the portfolio at acquisition. 

Total PCI Pick-a-Pay loans were $32.0 billion at 
December 31, 2012, compared with $61.0 billion at acquisition. 
Modification efforts have predominantly involved option 

payment PCI loans, which have declined to 20% of the Pick-a-

Pay portfolio at December 3
1, 2012, compared with 51% at 
acquisition. 
   Table 24:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio - Comparison to Acquisition Date
                          December 31,
        2012 (1)
    2008 
        Adjusted
     Adjusted
        unpaid
     unpaid
        principal
     principal
 (in millions) 
balance (2)
 % of total 
   balance (2)
% of total
 Option payment loans  
$  31,510  
 49  
%  $  99,937 
 86 
% Non-option payment adjustable-rate  
         and fixed-rate loans (3) 
  8,781  
 14  
    15,763 
 14 
 Full-term loan modifications  
  23,528  
 37  
    - 
 - 
  Total adjusted unpaid principal balance (3) 
$  63,819  
 100  
%  $  115,700 
 100 
%  Total carrying value 
$  58,274  
   $  95,315 
                                (1) Reflects $477 million in write-downs resulting from OCC guidance issued in 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in ba
nkruptcy to be written down to net 
realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status. 
 (2) Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other ind
ications of severe borrower financial 
stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 
 (3) Includes loans refinanced under the Consumer Relief Refinance Program 
                 Pick-a-Pay loans may have fi
xed or adjustable rates with 
payment options that include a minimum payment, an interest-

only payment or fully amortizing payment (both 15 and 30 year 

options). Total interest deferred due to negative amortization on 

Pick-a-Pay loans was 
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and 
$2.0 billion at December 31, 2011. Approximately 90% of the 

Pick-a-Pay customers making a minimum payment in 
December 2012 did not defer in
terest, compared with 83% in 
December 2011. 

 Deferral of interest on a Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as 
long as the loan balance remain
s below a pre-defined principal 
cap, which is based on the pe
rcentage that the current loan 
balance represents to the original loan balance. Substantially all 

the Pick-a-Pay portfolio has a cap of 125% of the original loan 

balance. Most of the 
Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a 
deferred interest balance re-a
mortize (the monthly payment 
amount is reset or “recast”) on the earlier of the date when the 

loan balance reaches its principal cap, or generally the 10-year 
anniversary of the loan. After a recast, the customers’ new 

payment terms are reset to the amount necessary to repay the 

balance over the rest of the original loan term. 
 Due to the terms of the Pick-a-
Pay portfolio, there is little 
recast risk in the near term. Based on assumptions of a flat rate 

environment, if all eligible customers elect the minimum 

payment option 100% of the time and no balances prepay, we 

would expect the following balances
 of loans to recast based on 
reaching the principal cap: $21 
million in 2013, $58 million in 
2014 and $109 million in 2015
. In addition, in a flat rate 
environment, we would expect the following balances of loans to 

start fully amortizing due to reaching their recast anniversary 

date: $101 million in 2013, $332 million in 2014 and 

$951 million in 2015. In 2012, the amount of loans reaching their 

recast anniversary date and also having a payment change over 

the annual 7.5% reset was $12 million. 

 Table 25 reflects the geographi
c distribution of the Pick-a-
Pay portfolio broken out between PCI loans and all other loans. 

The LTV ratio is a useful metric in
 predicting future real estate  
1-4 family first mortgage loan 
performance, including potential 
charge-offs. Because PCI loans were initially recorded at fair 

value, including write-downs for expected credit losses, the ratio 

of the carrying value to the current collateral value will be lower 

compared with the LTV based on 
the adjusted unpaid principal 
balance. For informational purposes, we have included both 
ratios for PCI loans in the following table. 
60   Table 25:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio (1)
   December 31, 2012 
    PCI loans
 All other loans
         Ratio of 
   Ratio of 
    Adjusted 
    carrying 
   carrying 
    unpaid 
Current 
   value to 
   value to 
   principal
 LTV 
 Carrying 
current 
  Carrying 
current 
 (in millions) 
balance (2) 
ratio (3) 
 value (4) 
value (5) 
  value (4) 
value (5) 
 California 
$  21,642  
 113  
% $  17,337  
 90  
% $  15,586  
 82  
% Florida 
  2,824  
 112  
   2,262  
 85  
   3,265  
 93  
 New Jersey 
  1,213  
 92  
   1,204  
 88  
   2,056  
 79  
 New York 
  697  
 90  
   680  
 85  
   916  
 79  
 Texas 
  303  
 79  
   284  
 73  
   1,290  
 64  
 Other states 
  5,324  
 102  
   4,567  
 86  
   8,827  
 84  
  Total Pick-a-Pay loans 
$  32,003  
  $  26,334  
  $  31,940  
  (1) The individual states shown in this table represent the top five states based on the total net carrying value of the Pick-a-Pay
 loans at the beginning of 2012. 
(2) 
Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other ind
ications of severe borrower financial stress 
exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 
(3) 
The current LTV ratio is calculated as the adjusted unpaid principal balance divided by the collateral value. Collateral values
 are generally determined using automated 
valuation models (AVM) and are updated quarterly. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate market values of homes based o
n processing large volumes of market 
data including market comparables and price trends for local market areas. 
(4) 
Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan losses, includes remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which
, for PCI loans may include the 
nonaccretable difference and the accretable yield and, for all other loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield a
t date of merger less any subsequent charge-
offs. 
(5) 
The ratio of carrying value to current value is calculated as the carrying value divided by the collateral value. 
               To maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to 
avoid foreclosure, we have in place several loss mitigation 

strategies for our Pick-a-Pay lo
an portfolio. We contact 
customers who are experiencing fi
nancial difficulty and may in 
certain cases modify the terms of
 a loan based on a customer’s 
documented income and other circumstances. 
 We also have taken steps to work with customers to refinance 

or restructure their Pick-a-Pay loans into other loan products. 

For customers at risk, we offer combinations of term extensions 

of up to 40 years (from 30 years), interest rate reductions, 

forbearance of principal, and, in geographies with substantial 

property value declines, we may offer permanent principal 

forgiveness. 

 In 2012, we completed more than 11,800 proprietary and 

HAMP Pick-a-Pay loan mo
difications. We have completed more 
than 111,000 modifications since 
the Wachovia acquisition, 
resulting in $5.1 billion of principal forgiveness to our Pick-a-Pay 

customers as well as an addition
al $427 million of conditional 
forgiveness that can be earned by borrowers through 

performance over the next three years.  

 Due to better than expected performance observed on the 

Pick-a-Pay PCI portfolio compared with the original acquisition 
estimates, we have reclassified $3.0 billion from the 

nonaccretable difference to the a
ccretable yield since acquisition 
including $648 million in 2012. 
Our cash flows expected to be 
collected have been favorably affe
cted by lower expected defaults 
and losses as a result of observed and forecasted economic 

strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and our loan 

modification efforts. These fact
ors are expected to reduce the 
frequency and severity of de
faults and keep these loans 
performing for a longer period, th
us increasing future principal 
and interest cash flows. The resulting increase in the accretable 

yield will be realized over the remaining life of the portfolio, 

which is estimated to have a we
ighted-average remaining life of 
approximately 12.5 years at December 31, 2012. The weighted-
average remaining life increased 1.5 years in 2012 due to 
estimated lower loan defaults, which extended the average life of 

the portfolio. The accretable yield percentage at 

December 31, 2012, was 4.70%, up from 4.45% at the end of 
2011. Fluctuations in the accretable yield are driven by changes 

in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans, prepayment 

assumptions, and expected principal and interest payments over 

the estimated life of the portfolio, which will be affected by the 

pace and degree of improvemen
ts in the U.S. economy and 
housing markets and projected
 lifetime performance resulting 
from loan modification activity. 
Changes in the projected timing 
of cash flow events, including 
loan liquidations, modifications 
and short sales, can also affect 
the accretable yield rate and the 
estimated weighted-average life of the portfolio. 
 The Pick-a-Pay portfolio is a significant portion of our PCI 
loans. For further information on the judgment involved in 

estimating expected cash flows fo
r PCI loans, please see “Critical 
Accounting Policies – Purchase
d Credit-Impaired Loans” in 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant A
ccounting Policies) to Financial 
Statements in this Report.
  61Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS
  Our home equity portfolios
 consist 
of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and 

junior lines of credit secured by real estate. Our first lien lines of 

credit represent 21% of our home equity portfolio and are 

included in real estate 1-4 family
 first mortgages. The majority of 
our junior lien loan products are amortizing payment loans with 

fixed interest rates and repayment periods between 5 to 30 

years. Junior lien loans with balloon payments at the end of the 

repayment term represent a small portion of our junior lien 

loans. 

 Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally 

have a draw period of 10 years with variable interest rates and 

payment options during the draw period of (1) interest only or 

(2) 1.5% of total outstanding ba
lance. During the draw period, 
the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the 

line from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms 

including interest-only payments for a fixed period between 

three to seven years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed 

period between five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a 

line of credit generally converts
 to an amortizing payment loan 
with repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at 

time of conversion. At December
 31, 2012, our lines of credit 
portfolio had an outstanding balance of $84.6 billion, of which 
$2.1 billion (2% of our total outstanding balance) is in its 
amortization period, another $8.2 billion (10%) will reach their 

end of draw period during 2013 through 2014, $29.4 billion 

(35%) during 2015 through 2017, and $44.9 billion (53%) will 

convert in subsequent years. This
 portfolio had unfunded credit 
commitments of $77.8 billion at
 December 31, 2012. The lines 
that enter their amortization 
period may experience higher 
delinquencies and higher loss rates than the ones in their draw 

period. At December 31, 2012, $223 million, or 11% of 

outstanding lines of credit that are amortizing, primarily due to 

reaching the end of draw period, 
were 30 or more days past due, 
compared with $1.9 billion, or 2% for lines in their draw period. 
In anticipation of our customers reaching their contractual end 
of draw we have created a proce
ss to help borrowers effectively 
make the transition from interest-only to fully-amortizing 
payments. 

 We continuously monitor the credit performance of our 

junior lien mortgage portfoli
o for trends and factors that 
influence the frequency and severity of loss. We have observed 

that the severity of loss for junior lien mortgages is high and 

generally not affected by whether we or a third party own or 

service the related first mortgage, but that the frequency of loss 

has historically been lower when we own or service the first 

mortgage. In general, we have limited information available on 

the delinquency status of the 
third party owned or serviced 
senior lien where we also hold a junior lien. To capture this 

inherent loss content, we use the experience of our junior lien 

mortgages behind delinquent first liens that are owned or 

serviced by us adjusted for observed higher delinquency rates 

associated with junior lien mo
rtgages behind third party first 
mortgages. We incorporate this inherent loss content into our 

allowance for loan losses. Our allowance process for junior liens 

ensures appropriate consideration of the relative difference in 

loss experience for junior liens behind first lien mortgage loans 

we own or service, compared with those behind first lien 

mortgage loans owned or serviced 
by third parties. In addition, 
our allowance process for junior liens that are current, but are in 

their revolving period, appropriately reflects the inherent loss 

where the borrower is delinquent on the corresponding first lien 

mortgage loans. 
 Table 26 summarizes delinquency and loss rates by the 
holder of the lien. For additional information regarding current 

junior liens behind delinquent first lien loans, see the “Risk 

Management – Credit Risk Ma
nagement – Real Estate 1-4 
Family First and Junior Lien Mo
rtgage Loans” section in this 
Report. 
 Table 26:  Home Equity Portfolios Performance by Holder of 1st Lien (1)
        % of loans
          two payments
       Outstanding balance (2) 
 or more past due 
  Loss rate (annualized) quarter ended 
    December 31, 
December 31, 
 Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30,
 June 30,
Mar. 31, 
Dec. 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2012 
   2011 
  2012 (3)
 2012 (3)
  2012 
 2012  
 2011  
First lien lines 
$  19,744 
 20,786 
  3.08 
 %  3.10 
   1.00 
  0.95 
  0.88 
 1.35  
 0.95  
Junior lien mortgages and lines behind: 
          Wells Fargo owned or 
           serviced first lien 
 37,913 
 42,810 
  2.65 
   2.91 
   3.81 
  4.96 
  3.34 
 3.54  
 3.48  
 Third party first lien 
  37,417 
 42,996 
  2.86 
   3.59 
   3.15 
  5.40 
  3.44 
 3.72  
 3.83  
  Total 
$  95,074 
 106,592 
   2.82 
   3.22 
   2.97 
  4.32 
  2.89 
 3.18  
 3.13  
(1) Excludes PCI loans and real estate 1-4 family first lien line reverse mortgages added to the consumer portfolio in fourth quart
er 2011 as a result of consolidating reverse 
mortgage loans previously sold. These reverse mortgage loans are predominantly insured by the FHA. 
(2) 
Includes $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, associated with the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. 
(3) 
Reflects the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written do
wn to net realizable collateral value, regardless 
of their delinquency status. The junior lien loss rates for thir
d quarter 2012 reflect losses based on estimates of collateral 
value to implement the OCC guidance, which were then 
adjusted in the fourth quarter to reflect actual appraisals. Fourth quarter 2012 losses on the junior liens where Wells Fargo o
wn or services first lien remained elevated primarily 
due to the OCC guidance.  
62   We monitor the number of borrowers paying the minimum 
amount due on a monthly basis. In December 2012, 

approximately 44% of our borrowers with a home equity 

outstanding balance paid only the minimum amount due; 93% 

paid the minimum or more.  
The home equity liquidating portfolio includes home equity 
loans generated through thir
d party channels, including 
correspondent loans. This liquidating portfolio represents less 

than 1% of our total loans outstanding at December 31, 2012, 
and contains some of the high
est risk in our home equity 
portfolio, with a loss rate of 
9.03% compared with 3.03% for the 
core (non-liquidating) home
 equity portfolio at 
December 31, 2012. 
Table 27 shows the credit 
attributes of the core and 
liquidating home equity portfolios and lists the top five states by 
outstanding balance. California loans represent the largest state 
concentration in each of thes
e portfolios. The decrease in 
outstanding balances primarily reflects loan paydowns and 

charge-offs. As of December 31, 2012, 34% of the outstanding 

balance of the core home equity
 portfolio was associated with 
loans that had a combined loan to
 value (CLTV) ratio in excess of 
100%. CLTV means the ratio of th
e total loan balance of first 
mortgages and junior lien mort
gages (including unused line 
amounts for credit line products) to property collateral 

value. The unsecured portion of the outstanding balances of 

these loans (the outstanding amou
nt that was in excess of the 
most recent property collateral 
value) totaled 15% of the core 
home equity portfolio 
at December 31, 2012. 
 Table 27:  Home Equity Portfolios (1)
        % of loans
          two payments
        Outstanding balance
  or more past due 
 Loss rate 
     December 31,
  December 31,
  December 31,
 ($ in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2012 
   2011 
  2012 (2)
   2011 
 Core portfolio (3)
            California 
$  22,900  
 25,555 
  2.46 
 %  3.03 
   3.59 
   3.61 
 Florida 
  9,763  
 10,870 
  4.15 
   4.99 
   4.10 
   4.99 
 New Jersey 
  7,338  
 7,973 
  3.43 
   3.73 
   2.50 
   2.31 
 Virginia 
  4,758  
 5,248 
  2.04 
   2.15 
   1.83 
   1.68 
 Pennsylvania 
  4,683  
 5,071 
  2.67 
   2.82 
   1.72 
   1.40 
 Other 
  40,985  
 46,165 
  2.59 
   2.79 
   2.84 
   2.66 
  Total 
  90,427  
 100,882 
  2.77 
   3.13 
   3.03 
   3.02 
 Liquidating portfolio
            California 
  1,633  
 2,024 
  3.99 
   5.50 
   11.87 
   12.64 
 Florida 
  223  
 265 
  5.79 
   7.02 
   8.15 
   11.56 
 Arizona 
  95  
 116 
  3.85 
   6.64 
   12.74 
   17.51 
 Texas 
  77  
 97 
  1.47 
   0.93 
   3.02 
   2.89 
 Minnesota 
  64  
 75 
  3.62 
   2.83 
   8.84 
   7.67 
 Other 
  2,555  
 3,133 
  3.62 
   4.13 
   7.33 
   6.88 
  Total 
  4,647  
 5,710 
  3.82 
   4.73 
   9.03 
   9.36 
   Total core and liquidating portfolios 
$  95,074  
 106,592 
  2.82 
   3.22  
  3.34 
   3.37 
 (1) Consists predominantly of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and junior lines of credit secured by real est
ate, but excludes PCI loans because their losses 
are generally covered by PCI accounting adjustment at the date of acquisition, and excludes real estate 1-4 family first lien o
pen-ended line reverse mortgages because they 
do not have scheduled payments. These reverse mortgage loans are predominantly insured by the FHA. 
(2) 
Reflects the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written do
wn to net realizable collateral value, 
regardless of their delinquency status. Excluding the impact of OCC guidance, total core and liquidating portfolio loss rate at
 December 31, 2012 was 2.76%. We believe that 
the presentation of certain information in this Report excluding the impact of the OCC guidance provides useful disclosure rega
rding the underlying credit quality of the 
Company’s loan portfolios. 
(3) 
Includes $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, respectively, associated with the Pick-a-Pa
y portfolio. 
               CREDIT CARDS
  Our credit card portfoli
o totaled $24.6 billion at 
December 31, 2012, which represented 3% of our total 

outstanding loans. The net charge-off rate for our credit card 
loans was 4.02% for 2012, compared with 5.58% for 2011. 
 OTHER REVOLVING CREDIT AND INSTALLMENT
  Other 
revolving credit and installment loans totaled $88.4 billion at 

December 31, 2012, and predominantly include automobile, 

student and security-based margin loans. The loss rate for other 
revolving credit and installm
ent loans was 1.00% for 2012, 
compared with 1.22% for 201
1. Excluding government 
guaranteed student loans, the loss rates were 1.15% and 1.46% 

for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our automobile portfolio, 

predominantly composed of indire
ct loans, totaled $46.0 billion 
and $43.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, 

and had a loss rate of 0.64% and 0.82% in 2012 and 2011, 

respectively. 
63Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   NONPERFORMING ASSETS (NONACCRUAL LOANS AND 
FORECLOSED ASSETS)  
Table 28 summarizes nonperforming 
assets (NPAs) for each of the last five years. We generally place 

loans on nonaccrual status when:  
 the full and timely collection of interest or principal 
becomes uncertain (generally ba
sed on an assessment of the 
borrower’s financial condition and the adequacy of 

collateral, if any);  
 they are 90 days (120 days wi
th respect to real estate 1-4 
family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest 

or principal, unless both well-
secured and in the process of 
collection; 
 part of the principal balance has been charged off; 
 effective first quarter 2012, for junior lien mortgages, we 
have evidence that the relate
d first lien mortgage may be 
120 days past due or in the pr
ocess of foreclosure regardless 
of the junior lien delinquency status; or 
 effective third quarter 2012, pe
rforming consumer loans are 
discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency 

status. 
  In first quarter 2012, we implemented the Interagency 
Guidance, which requires us to place junior liens on nonaccrual 

status if the related first lien is nonaccruing. At 

December 31, 2012, $960 millio
n of such junior liens were 
classified as
 nonaccrual. 
 In third quarter 2012, we implemented the OCC guidance 

related to loans discharged in
 bankruptcy, which increased 
nonperforming assets by $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2012, 

and increased loan charge-offs by $888 million for 2012.   
 Note 1 (Summary of Significan
t Accounting Policies – Loans) 
to Financial Statements in this 
Report describes our accounting 
policy for nonaccrual 
and impaired loans.  
 Table 28:  Nonperforming Assets (Nonaccrual Loans and Foreclosed Assets)
         December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
  2011 
  2010  
 2009  
 2008  
Nonaccrual loans: 
        Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial 
$  1,422  
  2,142 
  3,213  
 4,397  
 1,253  
  Real estate mortgage 
  3,322  
  4,085 
  5,227  
 3,696  
 594  
  Real estate construction 
  1,003  
  1,890 
  2,676  
 3,313  
 989  
  Lease financing 
  27  
  53 
  108  
 171  
 92  
  Foreign 
  50  
  47 
  127  
 146  
 57  
   Total commercial (1) 
  5,824  
  8,217 
  11,351  
 11,723  
 2,985  
 Consumer: 
         Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2) 
  11,455 
   10,913 
  12,289  
 10,100  
 2,648  
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage (3) 
  2,922  
  1,975 
  2,302  
 2,263  
 894  
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  285  
  199 
  300  
 332  
 273  
   Total consumer (4) 
  14,662  
  13,087 
  14,891  
 12,695  
 3,815  
    Total nonaccrual loans (5)(6)(7) 
  20,486  
  21,304 
  26,242  
 24,418  
 6,800  
    As a percentage of total loans 
  2.56  
%  2.77 
  3.47  
 3.12  
 0.79  
Foreclosed assets: 
        Government insured/guaranteed (8)  
$  1,509  
  1,319 
  1,479  
 960  
 667  
 Non-government insured/guaranteed 
  2,514  
  3,342 
  4,530  
 2,199  
 1,526  
   Total foreclosed assets 
  4,023  
  4,661 
  6,009  
 3,159  
 2,193  
     Total nonperforming assets 
$  24,509  
  25,965 
  32,251  
 27,577  
 8,993  
     As a percentage of total loans 
  3.07  
%  3.37 
  4.26  
 3.52  
 1.04  
(1) Includes LHFS of $16 million, $25 million, $3 million and $27 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009 respectively. 
(2) 
Includes MHFS of $336 million, $301 million, $426 million, $339 million, and $193 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 200
9, and 2008 respectively. 
(3) 
Includes $960 million at December 31, 2012, resulting from the Interagency Guidance issued in 2012 which requires performing ju
nior liens to be classified as nonaccrual if 
the related first mortgage is nonaccruing. 
(4) 
Includes $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012 consisting of $1.4 billion of first mortgages, $205 million of junior liens and $140
 million of auto and other loans, resulting from 
the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires pe
rforming consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed o
n nonaccrual status and written down to 
net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency status. 
(5) 
Excludes PCI loans because they continue to earn interest income
 from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordanc
e with their contractual terms. 
(6) 
Real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans predominantly 
guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the 
U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program are not placed on nonaccrual status because they a
re insured or guaranteed. 
(7) 
See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information on impaired l
oans. 
(8) 
Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing government insured/guaranteed loans are clas
sified as nonperforming. Both principal and 
interest for government insured/guaranteed loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because the loans are pr
edominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA. 
              64    Table 29:  Nonperforming Assets During 2012
       December 31, 2012
 September 30, 2012
  June 30, 2012 
 March 31, 2012 
       % of 
   % of  % of 
   % of 
        total 
   total
  total 
   total  ($ in millions) 
 Balance
loans 
  Balance 
loans
  Balance
loans 
  Balance 
loans 
 Nonaccrual loans: 
              Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
$  1,422 
 0.76  
% $  1,404  
 0.79 
% $  1,549 
 0.87  
% $  1,726  
 1.02  
%   Real estate mortgage 
  3,322 
 3.12  
   3,599  
 3.44 
   3,832 
 3.63  
   4,081  
 3.85  
   Real estate construction 
  1,003 
 5.93  
   1,253  
 7.08 
   1,421 
 8.08  
   1,709  
 9.21  
   Lease financing 
  27 
 0.22  
   49  
 0.40 
   43 
 0.34  
   45  
 0.34  
   Foreign 
  50 
 0.13  
   66  
 0.17 
   79 
 0.20  
   38  
 0.10  
    Total commercial 
  5,824 
 1.61  
   6,371  
 1.81 
   6,924 
 1.96  
   7,599  
 2.20  
  Consumer: 
                  Real estate 1-4 family 
                   first mortgage 
  11,455 
 4.58  
   11,195  
 4.65 
   10,368 
 4.50  
   10,683  
 4.67  
   Real estate 1-4 family 
                   junior lien mortgage 
  2,922 
 3.87  
   3,140  
 4.02 
   3,091 
 3.82  
   3,558  
 4.28  
   Other revolving credit and installment 
 285 
 0.32  
   338  
 0.39 
   195 
 0.22  
   186  
 0.21  
    Total consumer 
  14,662 
 3.34  
   14,673  
 3.41 
   13,654 
 3.24  
   14,427  
 3.43  
     Total nonaccrual loans 
  20,486 
 2.56  
   21,044  
 2.69 
   20,578 
 2.65  
   22,026  
 2.87  
 Foreclosed assets: 
                 Government insured/guaranteed 
  1,509 
    1,479  
    1,465 
    1,352  
   Non-government insured/guaranteed 
 2,514 
    2,730  
    2,842 
    3,265  
     Total foreclosed assets 
  4,023 
    4,209  
    4,307 
    4,617  
      Total nonperforming assets 
$  24,509 
 3.07  
% $  25,253  
 3.23 
% $  24,885 
 3.21  
% $  26,643  
 3.48  
% Change in NPAs from prior quarter 
$  (744)
    368  
    (1,758)
    678  
                        Total NPAs were $24.5 billion (3.07% of total loans) at 
December 31, 2012, and included
 $20.5 billion of nonaccrual 
loans and $4.0 billion of foreclosed assets. Nonaccrual loans 

decreased $818 million in 2012; however, apart from the 
increase of $960 million re
sulting from the Interagency 
Guidance and $1.8 billion 
from the OCC guidance, total 
nonaccrual loans declined duri
ng the year by $3.6 billion. 
Table 30 provides an analysis
 of the changes in nonaccrual 
loans. 
65Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   Table 30:  Analysis of Changes in Nonaccrual Loans
          Quarter ended
         Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30,
 June 30, 
Mar. 31, 
 Year ended Dec. 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2012 
  2012  
 2012  
  2012 
  2011 
 Commercial nonaccrual loans
         Balance, beginning of period 
$  6,371 
  6,924 
  7,599  
 8,217  
  8,217 
  11,351 
  Inflows 
  746 
  976 
  952  
 1,138  
  3,812 
  5,980 
  Outflows: 
          Returned to accruing 
  (135)
  (90)
  (242) 
 (188) 
  (655)
  (1,457)
   Foreclosures 
  (107)
  (151)
  (92) 
 (119) 
  (469)
  (683)
   Charge-offs 
  (322)
  (364)
  (402) 
 (347) 
  (1,435)
  (1,700)
   Payments, sales and other (1) 
  (729)
  (924)
  (891) 
 (1,102) 
  (3,646)
  (5,274)
    Total outflows 
  (1,293)
  (1,529)
  (1,627) 
 (1,756) 
  (6,205)
  (9,114)
 Balance, end of period 
  5,824 
  6,371 
  6,924  
 7,599  
  5,824 
  8,217 
 Consumer nonaccrual loans
         Balance, beginning of period 
  14,673 
  13,654 
  14,427  
 13,087  
  13,087 
  14,891 
  Inflows (2) 
  2,943 
  4,111 
  2,750  
 4,765  
  14,569 
  14,407 
  Outflows: 
          Returned to accruing 
  (893)
  (1,039)
  (1,344) 
 (943) 
  (4,219)
  (5,920)
   Foreclosures 
  (151)
  (182)
  (186) 
 (226) 
  (745)
  (985)
   Charge-offs 
  (1,053)
  (987)
  (1,137) 
 (1,364) 
  (4,541)
  (5,828)
   Payments, sales and other (1) 
  (857)
  (884)
  (856) 
 (892) 
  (3,489)
  (3,478)
    Total outflows 
  (2,954)
  (3,092)
  (3,523) 
 (3,425) 
  (12,994)
  (16,211)
 Balance, end of period 
  14,662 
  14,673 
  13,654  
 14,427  
  14,662 
  13,087 
   Total nonaccrual loans 
$  20,486 
  21,044 
  20,578  
 22,026  
  20,486 
  21,304 
            (1) 
Other outflows include the effects of VIE deconsolidations and adjustments for loans carried at fair value.  
(2) 
Quarter ended September 30, 2012, includes $1.4 billion of performing loans moved to nonaccrual status as a result of OCC guida
nce issued in third quarter 2012, which 
requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collatera
l value, regardless of their delinquency 
status. Quarter ended March 31, 2012, includes $1.7 billion moved to nonaccrual status as a result of implementing Interagency 
Guidance issued January 31, 2012. 
              Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period 
represent inflows for loans that are placed on nonaccrual status 

in accordance with our policy, 
offset by reductions for loans 
that are paid down, charged off, sold, transferred to foreclosed 

properties, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual as a result 

of continued performance and an improvement in the 

borrower’s financial condition an
d loan repayment capabilities. 
Also, reductions can come from
 borrower repayments even if 
the loan stays on nonaccrual. 

 While nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content, we 

believe exposure to loss is significantly mitigated by five 

factors. First, 97% of the $5.8 
billion of commer
cial nonaccrual 
loans and 99% of the $14.7 billion of consumer nonaccrual 

loans are secured at December 31, 2012. Of the consumer 

nonaccrual loans, 98% are secured by real estate and 45% have 

a combined LTV (CLTV) ratio of 80% or below. Second, losses 

of $1.8 billion and $4.9 billion have already been recognized on 

41% of commercial nonaccrual 
loans and 50% of consumer 
nonaccrual loans, respectively. Generally, when a consumer 

real estate loan is 
120 days past due (except when required 
earlier by the Interagency or OCC guidance), we transfer it to 

nonaccrual status. When the loan 
reaches 180 days past due, or 
is discharged in bankruptcy, it is
 our policy to write these loans 
down to net realizable value (fair value of collateral less 

estimated costs to sell), except fo
r modifications in their trial 
period that are not written down as long as trial payments are 

made on time. Thereafter, we reevaluate each loan regularly 

and recognize additional write-do
wns if needed. Third, as of 
 December 31, 2012, 63% of co
mmercial nonaccrual loans were 
current on interest. Fourth, the risk of loss for all nonaccrual 

loans has been considered and we believe is appropriately 

covered by the allowance for loan 
losses. And fifth, $2.8 billion 
of the consumer loans cla
ssified as nonaccrual at 
December 31, 2012, by the Interagency and OCC guidance are 
performing loans. 
Under both our proprietary modification programs and the 
MHA programs, customers may be required to provide 

updated documentation, an
d some programs require 
completion of trial payment periods to demonstrate sustained 

performance before the loan ca
n be removed from nonaccrual 
status. In addition, for loans in foreclosure, some states, 

including California and New Jersey, have enacted legislation 

or the courts have changed the fo
reclosure process in ways that 
significantly increases the time
 to complete the foreclosure 
process, meaning that loans wi
ll remain in no
naccrual status for longer periods. In certain other states, including New York 

and Florida, the foreclosure ti
meline has been significantly 
increased due to backlogs in 
an already complex process. 
If interest due on all nonaccrual loans (including loans that 
were, but are no longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been 

accrued under the original term
s, approximately $938 million 
of interest would have been reco
rded as income on these loans, 
compared with $406 million actu
ally recorded as interest 
income in 2012 versus $
1.1 billion and $344 million, 
respectively, in 2011. 

 Table 31 provides a summary of foreclosed assets and an 

analysis of changes in foreclosed assets. 
66   Table 31:  Foreclosed Assets
        Dec. 31, 
Sept. 30, 
June 30, 
Mar. 31, 
Dec. 31,
(in millions) 
  2012  
 2012  
 2012  
 2012  
 2011 
Government insured/guaranteed (1) 
$ 1,509  
1,479  
1,465  
1,352  
1,319 PCI loans: 
       Commercial 
 667  707  
777  875  
840  Consumer 
 219  263  
321  431  
465   Total PCI loans 
 886  970  
1,098  
1,306  
1,305 All other loans: 
       Commercial 
 1,073  
1,175  
1,147  
1,289  
1,379  Consumer 
 555  585  
597  670  
658   Total all other loans 
 1,628  
1,760  
1,744  
1,959  
2,037    Total foreclosed assets 
$ 4,023  
4,209  
4,307  
4,617  
4,661 Analysis of changes in foreclosed assets
       Balance, beginning of quarter 
$ 4,209  
4,307  
4,617  
4,661  
4,944  Net change in government insured/guaranteed (2) 
 30  14  113  33  (17)
 Additions to foreclosed assets (3) 
 537  692  
664  926  
934  Reductions: 
        Sales 
 (710)
 (750) 
(1,003) 
(896) 
(1,123)
  Write-downs and loss on sales 
 (43)
 (54) 
(84) 
(107) 
(77)
   Total reductions 
 (753)
 (804) 
(1,087) 
(1,003) 
(1,200)
Balance, end of quarter 
$ 4,023  
4,209  
4,307  
4,617  
4,661      (1) 
Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing government insured/guaranteed loans are clas
sified as nonperforming. Both principal and 
interest for government insured/guaranteed loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because the loans are pr
edominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA. 
(2) 
Foreclosed government insured/guaranteed loans are temporarily transferred to and held by us as servicer, until reimbursement i
s received from FHA or VA. The net change 
in government insured/guaranteed foreclosed assets is made up of inflows from mortgages held for investment and MHFS, and outfl
ows when we are reimbursed by FHA/VA. 
(3) 
Predominantly include loans moved into foreclosure from nonaccrual status, PCI loans transitioned directly to foreclosed assets
 and repossessed automobiles. 
            Foreclosed assets at December 31, 2012, included 
$1.5 billion of foreclosed real estate that is FHA insured or VA 

guaranteed and expected to have little to no loss content. The 

remaining balance of $2.5 billion of foreclosed assets has been 

written down to estimated net realizable value. Foreclosed 

assets were down $638 million, or 14%, at December 31, 2012, 
compared with December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, 68% 
of our foreclosed assets of $4.0 billion have been in the 
foreclosed assets portfolio one year or less. 

 Given our real estate-secured loan concentrations and 

current economic conditions, we 
anticipate we will continue to 
hold an elevated level of NPAs on our balance sheet.  
67Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)
                  Table 32:  Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs) (1)
          December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2010  
 2009  
 2008  
Commercial TDRs 
       Commercial and industrial 
$  1,683  
 2,026 
  613  
 82  
 28  
 Real estate mortgage 
  2,625 
  2,262 
  725  
 73  
 2  
 Real estate construction 
  801 
  1,008 
  407  
 110  
 35  
 Lease financing 
  20 
  33 
  -  
 -  
 -  
 Foreign 
  17  
 20 
  6  
 -  
 -  
  Total commercial TDRs 
  5,146  
 5,349 
  1,751  
 265  
 65  
Consumer TDRs 
       Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  17,804  
 13,799 
  11,603  
 6,685  
 1,179  
 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  2,390 
  1,986 
  1,626  
 1,566  
 461  
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  869  
 872 
  778  
 17  
 8  
 Trial modifications (1) 
  705  
 651 
  -  
 -  
 -  
  Total consumer TDRs (2) 
  21,768  
 17,308 
  14,007  
 8,268  
 1,648  
   Total TDRs 
$  26,914  
 22,657 
  15,758  
 8,533  
 1,713  
TDRs on nonaccrual status 
$  10,149  
 6,811 
  5,185  
 2,289  
 467  
TDRs on accrual status 
  16,765  
 15,846 
  10,573  
 6,244  
 1,246  
   Total TDRs 
$  26,914  
 22,657 
  15,758  
 8,533  
 1,713  
(1) Based on clarifying guidance from the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) received in December 2011, we classify trial mod
ifications as TDRs at the beginning of the 
trial period. For many of our consumer real estate modification programs, we may require a borrower to make trial payments gene
rally for a period of three to four months. 
Prior to the SEC clarification, we classified trial modifications as TDRs once a borrower successfully completed the trial peri
od in accordance with the terms. 
(2) 
December 31, 2012, includes $5.2 billion of loans, consisting of $4.5 billion of first mortgages, $506 million of junior liens 
and $140 million of auto and other loans, resulting 
from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be classified as 
TDRs, as well as written down to net 
realizable collateral value. 
           Table 33:  TDRs Balance by Quarter During 2012
       Dec. 31,
 Sept. 30, 
June 30, 
Mar. 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2012  
 2012  
 2012  
Commercial TDRs 
      Commercial and industrial 
$  1,683  
 1,877  
 1,937  
 1,967  
 Real estate mortgage 
  2,625  
 2,498  
 2,457  
 2,485  
 Real estate construction 
  801  
 949  
 980  
 1,048  
 Lease financing 
  20  
 26  
 27  
 29  
 Foreign 
  17  
 28  
 28  
 19  
  Total commercial TDRs 
  5,146  
 5,378  
 5,429  
 5,548  
Consumer TDRs 
      Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  17,804  
 17,861  
 13,919  
 13,870  
 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  2,390  
 2,437  
 1,975  
 1,981  
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  869  
 981  
 856  
 873  
 Trial modifications  
  705  
 733  
 745  
 723  
  Total consumer TDRs  
  21,768  
 22,012  
 17,495  
 17,447  
   Total TDRs 
$  26,914  
 27,390  
 22,924  
 22,995  
TDRs on nonaccrual status 
$  10,149  
 9,990  
 6,900  
 7,136  
TDRs on accrual status 
  16,765  
 17,400  
 16,024  
 15,859  
   Total TDRs 
$  26,914  
 27,390  
 22,924  
 22,995  
          68    Table 32 and Table 33 provide information regarding the 
recorded investment of loans mo
dified in TDRs. The allowance 
for loan losses for TDRs was $5.0 billion and $5.2 billion at 

December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 6 (Loans 

and Allowance for Credit Losses) to
 Financial Statements in this 
Report for additional information regarding TDRs. In those 

situations where principal is forgiven, the entire amount of such 

principal forgiveness is immediately charged off to the extent not 

done so prior to th
e modification. We sometimes delay the 
timing on the repayment of a portion of principal (principal 

forbearance) and charge off the amount of forbearance if that 

amount is not considered fully collectible. 

 Our nonaccrual policies are generally the same for all loan 
types when a restructuring is involved. We re-underwrite loans 

at the time of restructuring to determine whether there is 

sufficient evidence of sustained 
repayment capacity based on the 
borrower’s documented income, debt
 to income ratios, and other 
factors. Loans lacking sufficient evidence of sustained repayment 
capacity at the time of modifica
tion are charged down to the fair 
value of the collateral, if applicable. For an accruing loan that 

has been modified, if the borrower has demonstrated 

performance under the previous terms and the underwriting 

process shows the capacity to 
continue to perform under the 
restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing 

status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in nonaccrual status 

until the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of 
performance, generally six consecutive months of payments, or 
equivalent, inclusive of consec
utive payments made prior to 
modification. Loans will also be
 placed on nonaccrual, and a 
corresponding charge-off is record
ed to the loan balance, if we 
believe that principal and intere
st contractually due under the 
modified agreement will not be collectible. 

 Table 34 provides an analys
is of the changes in TDRs. 
 Table 34:  Analysis of Changes in TDRs
            Quarter ended
        Dec. 31, 
Sept. 30,
June 30, 
Mar. 31,
 Year ended Dec. 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012  
 2012 
 2012  
 2012 
  2012 
  2011 
Commercial TDRs
         Balance, beginning of period
 $  5,378  
 5,429 
 5,548  
 5,349 
  5,349 
  1,751 
 Inflows 
  542  
 620 
 687  
 710 
  2,559 
  5,379 
 Outflows 
          Charge-offs 
  (66) 
 (84)
 (112) 
 (119)
  (381)
  (252)
  Foreclosure 
  (14) 
 (20)
 (24) 
 (2)
  (60)
  (64)
  Payments, sales and other (1) 
  (694) 
 (567)
 (670) 
 (390)
  (2,321)
  (1,465)
Balance, end of period 
  5,146  
 5,378 
 5,429  
 5,548 
  5,146 
  5,349 
Consumer TDRs
         Balance, beginning of period 
  22,012  
 17,495 
 17,447  
 17,308 
  17,308 
  14,929 
 Inflows (2) 
  1,247  
 5,212 
 762  
 829 
  8,050 
  5,673 
 Outflows 
          Charge-offs (3) 
  (542) 
 (244)
 (319) 
 (295)
  (1,400)
  (1,091)
  Foreclosure (3) 
  (333) 
 (35)
 (25) 
 (33)
  (426)
  (144)
  Payments, sales and other (1) 
  (588) 
 (404)
 (392) 
 (434)
  (1,818)
  (1,788)
 Net change in trial modifications (4) 
  (28) 
 (12)
 22  
 72 
  54 
  (271)
Balance, end of period 
  21,768  
 22,012 
 17,495  
 17,447 
  21,768 
  17,308 
  Total TDRs 
$  26,914  
 27,390 
 22,924  
 22,995 
  26,914 
  22,657 
(1) Other outflows include normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments and loans transferred to held-for-sale. 
   (2) 
Quarter ended September 30, 2012, includes $4.3 billion of loans, resulting from the implementation of OCC guidance issued in t
hird quarter 2012, which requires consumer 
loans discharged in bankruptcy to be classified as TDRs, as well as written down to net realizable collateral value. Fourth qua
rter 2012 inflows remain elevated primarily due 
to the OCC guidance. 
(3) 
Fourth quarter 2012 outflows reflect the impact of loans discharged in bankruptcy being reported as TDRs in accordance with the
 OCC guidance starting in third  
quarter 2012.   
(4) 
Net change in trial modifications includes: inflows of new TDRs entering the trial payment period, net of outflows for modifica
tions that either (i) successfully perform and 
enter into a permanent modification, or (ii) did not successfully perform according to the terms of the trial period plan and a
re subsequently charged-off, foreclosed upon or 
otherwise resolved. Our recent experience is that most of the mortgages that enter a trial payment period program are successfu
l in completing the program requirements. 
69Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING
  Loans 90 days or more past due 
as to interest or principal are 
still accruing if they are (1) we
ll-secured and in the process of 
collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or 

consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being 

classified as nonaccrua
l until later delinquency, usually 120 days 
past due. PCI loans of $6.0 billion, $8.7 billion, $11.6 billion and 

$16.1 billion, at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 

respectively, are not included in 
these past due and still accruing 
loans even though they are 90 da
ys or more contractually past 
due. These PCI loans are considered
 to be accruing due to the 
existence of the accretable yiel
d and not based on consideration 
given to contractual interest payments. 

 Excluding insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90 days or more 

past due and still a
ccruing at December 31, 2012, were down 
$613 million, or 30%, from December 31, 2011, due to loss 
mitigation activities including 
modifications, decline in non-
strategic and liquidating portfoli
os, and credit stabilization. 
 Loans 90 days or more past
 due and still accruing whose 
repayments are predominantly insured by the Federal Housing 

Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of 

Veterans Affairs (VA) for mortgages and the U.S. Department of 

Education for student loans under the Federal Family Education 
Loan Program (FFELP) were $21.8 billion, $20.5 billion, 
$15.8 billion, $16.3 billion, and $9.0 billion at 

December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
 Table 35 reflects non-PCI loans 
90 days or more past due and 
still accruing by class 
for loans not government 
insured/guaranteed. For additional information on 

delinquencies by loan class, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for 

Credit Losses) to Financial St
atements in this Report.  
  Table 35:  Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
       December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
 2010  
 2009 
 2008  
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
     Total (excluding PCI): 
$  23,245  
 22,569 
 18,488  
 22,188 
 11,831  
  Less: FHA insured/guaranteed by the VA (1)(2) 
  20,745  
 19,240 
 14,733  
 15,336 
 8,185  
  Less: Student loans guaranteed under the FFELP (3) 
  1,065  
 1,281 
 1,106  
 994 
 765  
    Total, not government insured/guaranteed 
$  1,435  
 2,048 
 2,649  
 5,858 
 2,881  
By segment and class, not government insured/guaranteed: 
     Commercial: 
      Commercial and industrial 
$  47  
 153 
 308  
 590 
 218  
  Real estate mortgage 
  228  
 256 
 104  
 1,014 
 70  
  Real estate construction 
  27  
 89 
 193  
 909 
 250  
  Foreign 
  1  
 6 
 22  
 73 
 34  
   Total commercial 
  303  
 504 
 627  
 2,586 
 572  
 Consumer: 
        Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2) 
  564  
 781 
 941  
 1,623 
 883  
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage (2)(4) 
  133  
 279 
 366  
 515 
 457  
  Credit card 
  310  
 346 
 516  
 795 
 687  
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  125  
 138 
 199  
 339 
 282  
   Total consumer 
  1,132  
 1,544 
 2,022  
 3,272 
 2,309  
    Total, not government insured/guaranteed
 $  1,435  
 2,048 
 2,649  
 5,858 
 2,881  
(1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominan
tly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
(2) 
Includes MHFS 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 
(3) 
Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under 
the FFELP. 
(4) 
The balance at December 31, 2012, includes the impact from the transfer of certain 1-4 family junior lien mortgages to nonaccru
al loans in accordance with the Interagency 
Guidance issued on January 31, 2012. 
70   NET CHARGE-OFFS
                         Table 36:  Net Charge-offs
                               Year ended
              Quarter ended 
      December 31,
  December 31, 
  September 30,
  June 30, 
  March 31, 
     Net loan 
% of Net loan 
% of  Net loan 
% of Net loan 
% of Net loan
% of     charge- 
avg. charge- 
avg.  charge- 
avg. charge- 
avg. charge-
avg. ($ in millions) 
offs 
loans
 offs 
loans 
(1)
  offs 
loans 
(1)
 offs 
loans 
(1)
 offs
loans 
(1)
 2012 
               Commercial: 
                 Commercial and 
                  industrial 
$  845  
 0.49 
% $  209  
 0.46  
% $  131  
 0.29 
% $  249  
 0.58 
% $  256 
 0.62 
%  Real estate mortgage 
  219  
 0.21 
   38  
 0.14  
   54  
 0.21 
   81  
 0.31 
   46 
 0.17 
  Real estate construction 
 67  
 0.37 
   (18) 
 (0.43) 
   1  
 0.03 
   17  
 0.40 
   67 
 1.43 
  Lease financing 
  5  
 0.04 
   2  
 0.04  
   1  
 0.03 
   -   -    2 
 0.06 
  Foreign 
  79  
 0.20 
   24  
 0.25  
   30  
 0.29 
   11  
 0.11 
   14 
 0.14 
 Total commercial 
  1,215  
 0.35 
   255  
 0.29  
   217  
 0.24 
   358  
 0.42 
   385 
 0.45 
 Consumer: 
                     Real estate 1-4 family 
                      first mortgage 
  2,856  
 1.22 
   649  
 1.05  
   673  
 1.15 
   743  
 1.30 
   791 
 1.39 
  Real estate 1-4 family 
                      junior lien mortgage 
 3,178  
 3.93 
   690  
 3.57  
   1,036  
 5.17 
   689  
 3.38 
   763 
 3.62 
  Credit card 
  916  
 4.02 
   222  
 3.71  
   212  
 3.67 
   240  
 4.37 
   242 
 4.40 
  Other revolving credit 
                     and installment 
 869  
 1.00 
   265  
 1.21  
   220  
 1.00 
   170  
 0.79 
   214 
 0.99 
 Total consumer (2) 
  7,819  
 1.84 
   1,826  
 1.68  
   2,141  
 2.01 
   1,842  
 1.76 
   2,010 
 1.91 
    Total 
$  9,034  
 1.17 
% $  2,081  
 1.05  
% $  2,358  
 1.21 
% $  2,200  
 1.15 
% $  2,395 
 1.25 
%                         2011                Commercial: 
                 Commercial and industrial 
$  1,179  
 0.75 
% $  310  
 0.74  
% $  261  
 0.65 
% $  254  
 0.66 
% $  354 
 0.96 
%  Real estate mortgage 
  493  
 0.48 
   117  
 0.44  
   96  
 0.37 
   128  
 0.50 
   152 
 0.62 
  Real estate construction 
  205  
 0.95 
   (5) 
 (0.09) 
   55  
 1.06 
   72  
 1.32 
   83 
 1.38 
  Lease financing 
  14  
 0.11 
   4  
 0.13  
   3  
 0.11 
   1  
 0.01 
   6 
 0.18 
  Foreign 
  128  
 0.35 
   45  
 0.45  
   8  
 0.08 
   47  
 0.52 
   28 
 0.34 
 Total commercial 
  2,019  
 0.61 
   471  
 0.54  
   423  
 0.50 
   502  
 0.62 
   623 
 0.79 
 Consumer: 
                     Real estate 1-4 family 
                      first mortgage 
  3,478  
 1.53 
   844  
 1.46  
   821  
 1.46 
   909  
 1.62 
   904 
 1.60 
  Real estate 1-4 family 
                      junior lien mortgage 
  3,545  
 3.91 
   800  
 3.64  
   842  
 3.75 
   909  
 3.97 
   994 
 4.25 
  Credit card 
  1,198  
 5.58 
   256  
 4.63  
   266  
 4.90 
   294  
 5.63 
   382 
 7.21 
  Other revolving credit 
                      and installment 
  1,059  
 1.22 
   269  
 1.24  
   259  
 1.19 
   224  
 1.03 
   307 
 1.42 
 Total consumer 
  9,280  
 2.18 
   2,169  
 2.02  
   2,188  
 2.06 
   2,336  
 2.21 
   2,587 
 2.42 
    Total 
$  11,299  
 1.49 
% $  2,640  
 1.36  
% $  2,611  
 1.37 
% $  2,838  
 1.52 
% $  3,210 
 1.73 
%                                                 (1)  Quarterly net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans are annualized. 
 (2)  The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which req
uires consumer loans discharged in 
bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquen
cy status. Upon initial implementation of the 
OCC guidance in third quarter 2012, $567 million was charged off.  
                         71Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    Table 36 presents net charge-offs for the four quarters and 
full year of 2012 and 2011. Net charge-offs in 2012 were 

$9.0 billion (1.17% of average total loans outstanding) compared 

with $11.3 billion (1.49%) in 2011. Net charge-offs in 2012 

included $888 million resulting 
from the OCC guidance issued 
in third quarter 2012. Excluding th
e impact of this guidance, net 
charge-offs in 2012 were $8.1 billion (1.05% of average total 

loans outstanding), and total net charge-offs as a percentage of 

average loans decreased in each of
 the four quarters of the year, 
as we saw signs of stabilization 
in the housing market although 
the economic recovery remained uneven. 

 Net charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 

portfolio totaled $2.9 billion in 
2012, compared with $3.5 billion 
a year ago. 

 Net charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien 

portfolio decreased $367 million to $3.2 billion in 2012. More 

information about the home equity portfolio, which includes 

substantially all of our real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 

loans, is available in Table 27 of this Report and the related 

discussion.  

 Credit card net charge-offs decreased $282 million to 

$916 million in 2012.  

 Commercial net charge-offs were $1.2 billion in 2012 
compared with $2.0 billion in 2011, as market liquidity and 
improving market conditions 
helped stabilize performance 
results. 
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
  The allowance for credit 
losses, which consists of the al
lowance for loan losses and the 
allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management’s 

estimate of credit losses inhe
rent in the loan portfolio and 
unfunded credit commitments 
at the balance sheet date, 
excluding loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in 

the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment (including 

charge-offs and recoveries by loan class) is in Note 6 (Loans and 

Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.  

 We employ a disciplined process and methodology to 

establish our allowance for cred
it losses each quarter. This 
process takes into considerat
ion many factors, including 
historical and forecasted loss trends, loan-level credit quality 
ratings and loan grade-specific loss factors. The process involves 

subjective and complex judgment
s. In addition, we review a 
variety of credit metrics and tr
ends. These credit metrics and 
trends, however, do not solely determine the amount of the 

allowance as we use several analytical tools. For additional 

information on our allowance for credit losses, see the “Critical 

Accounting Policies – Allowance for Credit Losses” section, 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant 
Accounting Policies) and Note 6 
(Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements 
in this Report. 
 Table 37 presents an analysis of the allowance for credit 
losses by loan segments and classes for the last five years. 
72   Table 37:  Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)
        December 31, 
        2012 
    2011  
   2010 
    2009  
   2008  
       Loans
   Loans 
  Loans 
  Loans 
  Loans 
        as % 
   as % 
   as % 
   as %
   as % 
        of total 
   of total 
   of total 
   of total
   of total 
 (in millions) 
 ACL loans 
  ACL loans 
  ACL loans 
  ACL 
loans
  ACL loans 
 Commercial: 
                    Commercial and industrial 
$  2,543  
 23  
% $  2,649  
 22  
% $  3,299  
 20  
%$  4,014  
 20 
% $  4,129  
 23  
%  Real estate mortgage 
  2,283 
  13  
   2,550  
 14  
   3,072 
  13  
   2,398  
 12 
   931  
 11  
  Real estate construction 
  552 
  2  
   893  
 2  
   1,387 
  4  
   1,242  
 5 
   1,103  
 5  
  Lease financing 
  85 
  2  
   82  
 2  
   173 
  2  
   181  
 2 
   135  
 2  
  Foreign 
  251 
  5  
   184  
 5  
   238 
  4  
   306  
 4 
   265  
 4  
   Total commercial 
  5,714 
  45  
   6,358  
 45  
   8,169 
  43  
   8,141  
 43 
   6,563  
 45  
 Consumer: 
                     Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
 6,100 
  31  
   6,934  
 30  
   7,603 
  30  
   6,449  
 29 
   4,938  
 28  
  Real estate 1-4 family 
                      junior lien mortgage 
  3,462 
  10  
   3,897  
 11  
   4,557 
  13  
   5,430  
 13 
   4,496  
 13  
  Credit card 
  1,234 
  3  
   1,294  
 3  
   1,945 
  3  
   2,745  
 3 
   2,463  
 3  
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  967 
  11  
   1,185  
 11  
   1,189 
  11  
   2,266  
 12 
   3,251  
 11  
   Total consumer 
  11,763 
  55  
   13,310  
 55  
   15,294 
  57  
   16,890  
 57 
   15,148  
 55  
    Total
 $  17,477  
 100  
% $  19,668  
 100  
% $  23,463  
 100  
%$  25,031  
 100 
% $  21,711  
 100  
%                                December 31, 
       2012 
   2011  
  2010    2009    2008   Components: 
                Allowance for loan losses 
$  17,060  
   19,372  
   23,022  
   24,516  
   21,013  
  Allowance for unfunded 
                      credit commitments 
  417 
    296  
   441  
   515  
   698  
   Allowance for credit losses 
$  17,477  
   19,668  
   23,463  
   25,031  
   21,711  
 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage 
               of total loans 
  2.13 
 %   2.52  
   3.04  
   3.13  
   2.43  
 Allowance for loan losses as a percentage 
               of total net charge-offs 
  189 
    171 
    130 
    135 
    268 
  Allowance for credit losses as a percentage
                of total loans 
  2.19 
    2.56 
    3.10 
    3.20 
    2.51 
  Allowance for credit losses as a percentage
                of total nonaccrual loans 
  85 
    92 
    89 
    103 
    319 
                           73Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
    In addition to the allowance for credit losses there was 
$7.0 billion, $10.7 billion and $13.4 billion of nonaccretable 
difference at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, to 
absorb losses for PCI loans. The allowance for credit losses is 

lower than otherwise would have been required without PCI 

loan accounting. As a result of PCI loans, certain ratios of the 

Company may not be directly comparable with periods prior to 

the Wachovia merger and cred
it-related metrics for other 
financial institutions. For additi
onal information on PCI loans, 
see the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management – 

Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans” 
section, Note 1 (Summary of 
Significant Accounting Polici
es) and Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.  

 The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total 

nonaccrual loans may fluctuate significantly from period to 

period due to such factors as the mix of loan types in the 

portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value and 

marketability of collateral. Over half of nonaccrual loans were 

home mortgages at December 31, 2012. 

 The 2012 provision of $7.2 billion was $1.8 billion less than 

net charge-offs as a result of continued strong credit 

performance. The provision incorporated estimated losses 
attributable to Super Storm Sand
y, which caused destruction 
along the northeast coast of the U.S. in late October 2012 and 

affected primarily our consumer real estate loan portfolios. 

Based on available da
mage assessments, the extent of insurance 
coverage, the availability of government assistance for our 

borrowers, and our estimate of the potential impact on 

borrowers’ ability and willingness to repay their loans, we 

estimated the increase in net charge-offs attributable to Super 

Storm Sandy to be between $2
00 million and $800 million. 
After considering various factors,
 including our estimate of the 
probabilities associated with various outcomes, we incorporated 

$425 million into our provision for 2012. The OCC guidance 

issued in 2012 requires consumer loans discharged in 

bankruptcy to be placed on no
naccrual status and written down 
to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquency 

status. While the impact of the OCC guidance accelerated 

charge-offs of performing consumer loans discharged in 

bankruptcy in 2012, the allowance had coverage for these 

charge-offs. Total provision for credit losses was $7.2 billion in 
2012, $7.9 billion in 2011 and $15.8 billion in 2010. 

  The 2011 provision of $7.9 billion was $3.4 billion less than 

net charge-offs. Primary drivers of the 2011 allowance release 
were decreased net charge-offs 
and continued improvement in 
the credit quality of the commer
cial and consumer portfolios 
and related loss estimates as s
een in declining delinquency and 
nonperforming loan levels. 

 In 2010, the provision of $15.8 billion was $2.0 billion less 

than net charge-offs. The allowance release was primarily due to 

continued improvement in the co
nsumer portfolios and related 
loss estimates and improvement in economic conditions. These 
drivers were partially offset by an
 increase in impaired loans and 
related allowance primarily associ
ated with increased consumer 
loan modification efforts and a 
$693 million addition to the 
allowance due to adoption of consolidation accounting guidance 

on January 1, 2010. 
 In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our 
residential real estate portfolios, our process considers the 

associated credit cost
, including re-defaults of modified loans 
and projected loss severity for 
loan modifications 
that occur or 
are probable to occur. In addition, our process incorporates the 

estimated allowance associated wi
th recent events including our 
settlements announced 
in February 2012 and January 2013 with 
federal and state government entities relating to our mortgage 

servicing and foreclosure practices and high risk portfolios 

defined in the Interagency Guidance relating to junior lien 

mortgages. 

 Changes in the allowance reflect changes in statistically 

derived loss estimates, historical
 loss experience, current trends 
in borrower risk and/or general economic activity on portfolio 

performance, and management’s 
estimate for imprecision and 
uncertainty.  

 We believe the allowance for credit losses of $17.5 billion at 
December 31, 2012, was appropriate to cover credit losses 

inherent in the loan portfoli
o, including unfunded credit 
commitments, at that date. The allowance for credit losses is 

subject to change and reflects exis
ting factors as of the date of 
determination, including econom
ic or market conditions and 
ongoing internal and external examination processes. Due to the 

sensitivity of the allowance for 
credit losses to changes in the 
economy and business environment, it is possible that we will 

incur incremental credit losses no
t anticipated as of the balance 
sheet date. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we 

continue to expect future allowance releases in 2013, but at a 

lower level than 2012. Our process for determining the 

allowance for credit losses is discussed in the “Critical 
Accounting Policies – Allowance 
for Credit Losses” section and 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant A
ccounting Policies) to Financial 
Statements in this Report. 
 LIABILITY FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES
 We sell residential mortgage loans to
 various parties, including (1) 
government-sponsored entities
 Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae 
(GSEs) who include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed 

mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs
 that issue private label MBS, 
and (3) other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans 

for investment or private label 
securitization. In addition, we 
pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed
 mortgage loans that back 
securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage 
Association (GNMA). We may be re
quired to repurchase these 
mortgage loans, indemnify the secu
ritization trust, investor or 
insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer 

for credit losses incurred on loan
s (collectively, repurchase) in 
the event of a breach of contractual representations or 

warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days 

or less) after we receive notice of the breach.  

 We have established a mortgage repurchase liability related 
to various representations and warranties that reflect 

management’s estimate 
of probable losses for loans for which we 
have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently 

service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Our 

mortgage repurchase liability estimation process also 

incorporates a forecast of repurchase demands associated with 

mortgage insurance rescission activity. Our mortgage 
74   repurchase liability considers all vintages, however, repurchase 
demands have predominantly re
lated to 2006 through 2008 
vintages and to GSE-guaranteed MBS. 
During 2012, we continued to experience elevated levels of 
repurchase activity measured 
by the number of investor 
repurchase demands. We repurchased or reimbursed investors 

for incurred losses on mortgage loans with original balances of 

$2.5 billion in 2012, compared with $2.8 billion in 2011. 

Additionally, we negotiated settlements on pools of mortgage 

loans with original sold balances of $341 million in 2011, to 

eliminate the risk of repurchase on these loans. We had no such 

settlements in 2012. We incurred net losses on repurchased 

loans and investor reimbursements totalling $1.1 billion in 2012, 

compared with $1.2 billion in 2011. 
Table 38 provides the number of unresolved repurchase 
demands and mortgage insurance rescissions. We do not 

typically receive repurchase requests from GNMA, FHA and the 

Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or VA. 
As an originator of an FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed loan, we 
are responsible for obtaining the insurance with FHA or the 

guarantee with the VA. To the extent we are not able to obtain 

the insurance or the guarantee we must request permission to 

repurchase the loan from the GNMA pool. Such repurchases 

from GNMA pools typically represent a self-initiated process 

upon discovery of the uninsurable loan (usually within 180 days 

from funding of the loan). Alternatively, in lieu of repurchasing 

loans from GNMA pools, we may be asked by the FHA/HUD or 

the VA to indemnify them (as appl
icable) for defects found in the 
Post Endorsement Technical 
Review process or audits 
performed by FHA/HUD or the VA. The Post Endorsement 

Technical Review is a process whereby the HUD performs 

underwriting audits of closed/i
nsured FHA loans for potential 
deficiencies. Our liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses 

incorporates probable loss
es associated with such 
indemnification. 
 Table 38:  Unresolved Repurchase Demands and Mortgage Insurance Rescissions
    Government
   Mortgage insurance 
   sponsored entities (1)
 Private
rescissions with no demand (2) 
 Total
   Number o
f Original loan
 Number o
f Original loan
Number o
f  Original loan
 Number o
f Original loan
($ in millions) 
loans 
 balance (3)
 loans 
 balance (3)
loans 
 balance (3)
 loans
 balance (3)
                  2012 
           December 31, 
 6,621  
$  1,503 
  1,306  
$  281 
 753  
$  160 
  8,680 
$  1,944 
September 30, 
 6,525  
  1,489 
  1,513  
  331 
 817  
  183 
  8,855 
  2,003 
June 30, 
 5,687  
  1,265 
  913  
  213 
 840  
  188 
  7,440 
  1,666 
March 31, 
 6,333  
  1,398 
  857  
  241 
 970  
  217 
  8,160 
  1,856 
            2011           December 31,
  7,066  
  1,575 
  470  
  167 
 1,178  
  268 
  8,714 
  2,010 
September 30, 
 6,577  
  1,500 
  582  
  208 
 1,508  
  314 
  8,667 
  2,022 
June 30, 
 6,876  
  1,565 
  695  
  230 
 2,019  
  444 
  9,590 
  2,239 
March 31, 
 6,210  
  1,395 
  1,973  
  424 
 2,885  
  674 
  11,068 
  2,493 
(1) Includes repurchase demands of 661 and $132 million, 534 and $111 million, 526 and $103 million, 694 and $131 million, 861 and 
$161 million, 878 and $173 million, 
892 and $179 million and 685 and $132 million for December 31, September 30, June 30 and March 31, 2012, and December 31, Septe
mber 30, June 30 and 
March 31, 2011, respectively, received from investors on mortgage servicing rights acquired from other originators. We generall
y have the right of recourse against the seller 
and may be able to recover losses related to such repurchase demands subject to counterparty risk associated with the seller. T
he number of repurchase demands from GSEs 
that are from mortgage loans originated in 2006 through 2008 totaled 81% at December 31, 2012. 
(2) 
As part of our representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we typically represent to GSEs and private investors
 that certain loans have mortgage insurance to 
the extent there are loans that have loan to value ratios in ex
cess of 80% that require mortgage insurance. To the extent the m
ortgage insurance is rescinded by the 
mortgage insurer due to a claim of breach of a contractual representation or warranty, the lack of insurance may result in a re
purchase demand from an investor. Similar to 
repurchase demands, we evaluate mortgage insurance rescission notices for validity and appeal for reinstatement if the rescissi
on was not based on a contractual breach. 
When investor demands are received due to lack of mortgage insurance, they are reported as unresolved repurchase demands based 
on the applicable investor category for 
the loan (GSE or private). Over the last year, approximately 20% of our repurchase demands from GSEs had mortgage insurance res
cission as one of the reasons for the 
repurchase demand. Of all the mortgage insurance rescission noti
ces received in 2011, approximately 80% have resulted in repurc
hase demands through December 2012. 
Not all mortgage insurance rescissions received as far back as 2011 have been completed through the appeals process with the mo
rtgage insurer and, upon successful 
appeal, we work with the investor to rescind the repurchase demand. 
(3) 
While the original loan balances related to these demands are presented above, the establishment of the repurchase liability is
 based on a combination of factors, such as our 
appeals success rates, reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected loss severity, which is 
driven by the difference between the current 
loan balance and the estimated collateral value less costs to sell the property. 
                   The overall level of unresolved repurchase demands and 
mortgage insurance rescissions outstanding at 

December 31, 2012, was down from 
a year ago in both number of 
outstanding loans and in total dollar balances as we continued to 

work through the new demands and mortgage insurance 

rescissions. Customary with industry practice, we have the right 

of recourse against correspondent lenders from whom we have 

purchased loans with respect to representations and warranties. 

Of total repurchase demands an
d mortgage insurance recissions 
outstanding as of December 31, 2012, presented in Table 38, 

approximately 25% relate to loans purchased from 

correspondent lenders. Due primari
ly to the financial difficulties 
of some correspondent lenders, we are currently recovering on 
average approximately 45% of losses from these lenders. 

Historical recovery rates as well as projected lender performance 

are incorporated in the establishment of our mortgage 

repurchase liability. 
 We believe we have a high qu
ality residential mortgage loan 
servicing portfolio. Of the $1.9 trillion in the residential 

mortgage loan servicing portfol
io at December 31, 2012, 93% 
was current, less than 2% was subprime at origination, and less 

than 1% was home equity se
curitizations. Our combined 
delinquency and foreclosure rate on this portfolio was 7.04% at 

December 31, 2012, compared with 7.96% at December 31, 2011. 
75Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   Four percent of this portfolio is private label securitizations for 
which we originated the loans and therefore have some 

repurchase risk. Although we have observed an increase in 

outstanding demands, compared to December 31, 2011, 

associated with our private label securitizations as some 

investors have reviewed defaulted 
loans for potential breaches of 
our loan sale representations and warranties, we continue to 

believe the risk of repurchase in our private label securitizations 

is substantially reduced, relative to other private label 

securitizations, because approximately one-half of this portfolio 

of private label securitizations do not contain representations 

and warranties regarding borrower or other third party 

misrepresentations related to the mortgage loan, general 

compliance with underwriting guide
lines, or property valuation, 
which are commonly asserted bases for repurchase. For this 4% 

private label securitization segment of our residential mortgage 

loan servicing portfolio (weighted average age of 86 months), 

58% are loans from 2005 vintages or earlier; 78% were prime at 

origination; and approximately 64% are jumbo loans. The 

weighted-average LTV as of December 31, 2012 for this private 
securitization segment was 75%. We believe the highest risk 
segment of these private label securitizations is the subprime 

loans originated in 2006 and 2
007. These subprime loans have 
seller representations and warranties and currently have LTVs 

close to or exceeding 100%, and represent 9% of the private label 

securitization portion of the residential mortgage servicing 
portfolio. We had $180 million of repurchases related to private 

label securitizations in 2012 comp
ared with $110 million in 2011. 
 Of the servicing portfolio, 4% is non-agency acquired 

servicing and 1% is private whole loan sales. We did not 

underwrite and securitize the non-agency acquired servicing and 

therefore we have no obligation on that portion of our servicing 

portfolio to the investor for any repurchase demands arising 

from origination practices. For the private whole loan segment, 

while we do have repurchase risk on these loans, less than 2% 

were subprime at origination 
and loans that were sold and 
subsequently securitized are in
cluded in the private label 
securitization segment discussed above. 

  Table 39 summarizes the changes in our mortgage 

repurchase liability. 
 Table 39:  Changes in Mortgage Repurchase Liability
        Quarter ended
           Dec. 31, 
Sept. 30,
June 30,
Mar. 31,
  Year ended Dec. 31,
  (in millions) 
  2012  
 2012 
 2012 
 2012 
  2012  
 2011 
  2010 
 Balance, beginning of period 
$  2,033  
 1,764 
 1,444 
 1,326 
  1,326  
 1,289 
  1,033 
  Provision for repurchase losses: 
        Loan sales 
  66  
 75 
 72 
 62 
  275  
 101 
  144 
   Change in estimate (1) 
  313  
387 597 368   1,665  
 1,184 
  1,474 
     Total additions 
  379  
 462 
 669 
 430 
  1,940  
 1,285 
  1,618 
  Losses 
  (206) 
 (193)
 (349)
 (312)
  (1,060) 
 (1,248)
  (1,362)
 Balance, end of period 
$  2,206  
 2,033 
 1,764 
 1,444 
  2,206  
 1,326 
  1,289 
 (1) Results from changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer pr
actices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stabi
lity of correspondent lenders. 
                 The mortgage repurchase liability of $2.2 billion at 
December 31, 2012, represents our best estimate of the probable 

loss that we expect to incur for various representations and 

warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage 

loans. The mortgage repurchase liability estimation process 
requires management to make di
fficult, subjective and complex 
judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, 

including demand expectations
, economic factors, and the 
specific characteristics of the lo
ans subject to repurchase. Our 
evaluation considers all vintages and the collective actions of the 

GSEs and their regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency 

(FHFA), mortgage insurers and our correspondent lenders. We 

maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the FHFA, and other 

significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand 

practices and issues as part of our process to update our 

repurchase liability estimate as new information becomes 

available. 

 Our liability for mortgage repurchases, included in “Accrued 

expenses and other liabilities” in
 our consolidated balance sheet, 
was $2.2 billion at December 31, 2012, and $1.3 billion at 

December 31, 2011. In 2012, we provided $1.9 billion, which 
reduced net gains on mortgage loa
n origination/sales activities, 
compared with a provision of 
$1.3 billion for 2011 and 
$1.6 billion for 2010. Our provision in 2012 reflected an increase 
in projections of future GSE repu
rchase demands, net of appeals, 
for the pre-2009 vintages to incorporate the impact of recent 

trends in file requests and 
repurchase demand activity 
(comprising approximately 58% 
of the 2012 provision), an 
increase in probable loss estimates for mortgage insurance 

rescissions (approximately 10%), new loan sales (approximately 

14%), an increase in probable loss estimates for non-agency risk 
(approximately 9%), and various other observed trends affecting 

our repurchase liability including higher than anticipated loss 
severity (approximately 9%). The increase in projected future 
GSE repurchase demands in 2012 was predominantly a result of 
an increase in the expected file 
reviews by the GSEs as well as an 
increase in observed demand rates on these file reviews based on 

our most recent experience with them. 

 Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates 

underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of 

losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability 

that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of 

possible loss for representations and warranties does not 

represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available 

information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions 

that are subject to change. Th
e high end of this range of 
76   reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was 
$2.4 billion at December 31, 2012, and was determined based 

upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to assume 

significant changes in investor 
repurchase demand practices) 
utilized in our best estimate of 
probable loss to reflect what we 
believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse 

assumptions. For additional in
formation on our repurchase 
liability, see the “Critical Acco
unting Policies – Liability for 
Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses” section and Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
 Table 40:  Mortgage Repurchase Liability – 
Sensitivity/Assumptions
        Mortgage 
      repurchase 
 (in millions) 
 liability 
 Balance at December 31, 2012 
$  2,206  
        Loss on repurchases (1) 
  39.5  
%      
Increase in liability from: 
         
 10% higher losses 
$  207  
       
 25% higher losses 
  518  
        Repurchase rate assumption (2) 
  0.5  
%  Increase in liability from: 
         
 10% higher repurchase rates 
$  194  
       
 25% higher repurchase rates 
  485  
  (1) Represents total estimated average loss rate on repurchased loans, net of 
recovery from third party originators, based on historical experience and 
current economic conditions. The average loss rate includes the impact of 
repurchased loans for which no loss is expected to be realized. 
 (2) Represents the combination of the estimated investor audit/file review rate, 
the investor demand rate on those audited loans, and the unsuccessful appeal 
rate on those demands. As such, the repurchase rate can be significantly 
impacted by changes in investor behavior if they decide to review/audit more 
loans or demand more repurchases on the loans they audit. These behavior 
changes drive a significant component of our estimated high end of the range 
of reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded repurchase liability, 
which includes adverse assumptions in excess of the sensitivity ranges 
presented in this table. 
         To the extent that economic conditions and the housing 
market do not continue to stabiliz
e or future investor repurchase 
demands and appeals success rates differ from past experience, 

we could continue to have incr
eased demands an
d increased loss 
severity on repurchases, causing future additions to the 

repurchase liability. However, some of the underwriting 

standards that were permitted by the GSEs on the 2006 through 

2008 vintages, which significan
tly contributed to the recent 
levels of repurchase demands, we
re tightened starting in mid to 
late 2008. Accordingly, we have
 not experienced and we do not 
expect a similar rate of repurchase requests from the pre-2006 

and the 2009 and later vintages. 
 RISKS RELATING TO SERVICING ACTIVITIES  
In addition to servicing loans in our portfolio, we act as servicer and/or master 

servicer of residential mort
gage loans included in GSE-
guaranteed mortgage securitizations, GNMA-guaranteed 

mortgage securitizations of FHA-insured/VA-guaranteed 
mortgages and private label mortgage securitizations, as well as 

for unsecuritized loans owned by institutional investors. The 
following discussion summarizes the primary duties and 
requirements of servicing and related industry developments. 

  General Servicing Duties and Requirements 
 The loans we service were originated by us or by other mortgage 
loan originators. As servicer, our primary duties are typically to 

(1) collect payments due from borrowers, (2) advance certain 

delinquent payments of principal and interest, (3) maintain and 

administer any hazard, title or primary mortgage insurance 

policies relating to the mort
gage loans, (4) maintain any 
required escrow accounts for 
payment of taxes and insurance 
and administer escrow payments
, (5) foreclose on defaulted 
mortgage loans or, to the extent
 consistent with the documents 
governing a securitization, consider alternatives to foreclosure, 

such as loan modifications or sh
ort sales, and (6) for loans sold 
into private label securitizations, manage the foreclosed property 

through liquidation. As master servicer, our primary duties are 

typically to (1) supervise, monitor and oversee the servicing of 

the mortgage loans by the servicer, (2) consult with each servicer 

and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to observe its 

servicing obligations, (3) pr
epare monthly distribution 
statements to security holders and, if required by the 

securitization documents, certain periodic reports required to be 

filed with the SEC, (4) if required by the securitization 

documents, calculate distributi
ons and loss allocations on the 
mortgage-backed securities, (5) prepare tax and information 

returns of the securitization trust, and (6) advance amounts 
required by non-affiliated servicers who fail to perform their 
advancing obligations.  

 Each agreement under which we act as servicer or master 

servicer generally specifies a standard of responsibility for 

actions we take in such capacity and provides protection against 

expenses and liabilities we incur when acting in compliance with 

the specified standard. For example, most private label 

securitization agreements under which we act as servicer or 

master servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master 

servicer are entitled to indemn
ification by the securitization 
trust for taking action or refraining from taking action in good 

faith or for errors in judgment. However, we are not 

indemnified, but rather are 
required to indemnify the 
securitization trustee, against any failure by us, as servicer or 

master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or against 

any of our acts or omissions that involve wilful misfeasance, bad 

faith or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless 

disregard of, our duties. In addition, if we commit a material 

breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may 

be subject to termination if th
e breach is not cured within a 
specified period following notice, which can generally be given 

by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security 

holders. Whole loan sale contracts under which we act as 

servicer generally include similar provisions with respect to our 

actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in GSE-

guaranteed securitizations, and the possible remedies for 

violations of such standards, 
vary, and those standards and 
remedies are determined by serv
icing guides maintained by the 
GSEs, contracts between the GSEs
 and individual servicers and 
topical guides published by the GSEs from time to time. Such 
77Risk Management – Credit Risk Management 
(continued)
   remedies could include indemnif
ication or repurchase of an 
affected mortgage loan. 

 Consent Orders and Settlement Agreements for 
Mortgage Servicing and Foreclosure Practices
  In April 2011, the FRB and the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency (OCC) issued Consent Orders that require us to 

correct deficiencies in our resi
dential mortgage loan servicing 
and foreclosure practices that were identified by federal banking 

regulators in their fourth quarter 2010 review. The Consent 

Orders also require that we improve our servicing and 

foreclosure practices. We have implemented all of the 

operational changes that resulted from the expanded servicing 

responsibilities outlined in the Consent Orders. 
On February 9, 2012, a federal/state settlement was 
announced among the DOJ, HUD, the Department of the 

Treasury, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade 

Commission (FTC), the Executive Office of the U.S. Trustee, the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a task force of Attorneys 

General representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four other 

servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing 

and foreclosure practices. While Oklahoma did not participate in 

the larger settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers 

under a simplified agreement. Under the terms of the larger 

settlement, which will remain in 
effect for three and a half years 
(subject to a trailing review period) we have agreed to the 

following programmatic commitme
nts, consisting of three 
components totaling approximately $5.3 billion: 
 Consumer Relief Program co
mmitment of $3.4 billion 
 Refinance Program commit
ment of $900 million 
 Foreclosure Assistance Program of $1 billion 
 
 Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and FRB 

announced the imposition of civil money penalties of 

$83 million and $87 million, respectively, pursuant to the 

Consent Orders. While still subject to FRB confirmation, Wells 

Fargo believes the civil money obligations were satisfied through 

payments made under the Foreclosure Assistance Program to 

the federal government and participating states for their use to 

address the impact of foreclosure
 challenges as they determine 
and which may include direct
 payments to consumers. 
 We are in the process of successfully executing activities 

under both the Consumer Relief and the Refinance Programs in 

accordance with the terms 
of our commitments. In our 
February 14, 2013, submission to
 the Monitor of the National 
Mortgage Settlement, we reported $1.9 billion of earned credits 

toward our Consumer Relief commitment and $1.1 billion of 

earned credits toward our Refinance Program commitment. 

Refinance Program earned credits in excess of our required 

commitment of $900 million ca
n be applied towards our 
Consumer Relief commitment obligations, subject to a limit of 

$343 million of earned credits. Our earned credits are subject to 

review and approval by the Monitor. 

 
Consumer Relief Program 

 We began conducting creditable activities towards 

satisfaction of the requirements of the Consumer Relief Program 

on March 1, 2012. We can also receive an additional 25% credit 
for first or second lien principa
l reduction taken within one year 
from March 1, 2012. Because we wi
ll not receive dollar-for-dollar 
credit for the relief provided in
 some circumstances, the actual 
relief we provide to borrowers will likely exceed our 

commitment. The terms also require that we satisfy 75% of the 

commitments under the Consumer
 Relief Program within two 
years from March 1, 2012. If we do not meet this two-year 

requirement and also do not meet
 the entire commitment within 
three years, we are required to pay an amount equal to 140% of 

the unmet commitment amount. If we meet the two-year 

commitment target, but do not meet the entire commitment 

amount within the three years, we are required to pay an amount 

equal to 125% of the unmet commitment amount. We expect that 

we will be able to meet our commitment (and state-level sub-
commitments) on the Consumer 
Relief Program within the 
required timeframes, primarily through our first and second lien 

modification and short sale and 
other deficiency 
balance waiver 
programs. Given the types of relief provided, we consider these 

loan modifications to be TD
Rs. We have evaluated our 
commitment along with the menu of credits and believe that 

fulfilling our commitment under the Consumer Relief Program 

has been appropriately considered in our estimation for the 

allowance for loan losses as well as our cash flow projections to 

evaluate the nonaccretable difference for our PCI portfolios at 

December 31, 2012. 

 
Refinance Program 

 We have started receiving credit under the Refinance 

Program for activities taken on or after March 1, 2012. The 

Refinance Program allows for an additional 25% credit for all 

refinance credits earned in the first 12 months of the program. 

As of December 31, 2012, subject to the Monitor of the National 

Mortgage Settlement review and 
approval, we have completed 
the number of refinances necessary to satisfy our commitment 

under the Refinance Program. Upon completion of the Refinance 

Program we estimate our total calculated credit will be 
approximately $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion, although we can only 
receive earned credits for this program of $1.2 billion due to 

certain limits within the agreement. 

 Including refinances that are still in the process of 

completion, we expect that we will refinance approximately 

31,000 to 34,000 borrowe
rs with an unpaid principal balance of 
approximately $6.7 billion to $7.4 billion under the Refinance 

Program. Based on the mix of loans we have refinanced and are 

in the process of completion, we 
estimate their weighted average 
note rate will be reduced by ap
proximately 260 basis points and 
that their weighted average estimated remaining life will be 

approximately 10 years. The impact of fulfilling our commitment 

under the Refinance Program will be recognized over a period of 

years in the form of lower interest income as qualified borrowers 

benefit from reduced interest rates on loans refinanced under 

the Refinance Program. We expect the future reduction in 

interest income to be approximately $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion or 

$173 million to $191 million annually. As a result of refinancings 

under the Refinance Program, we will be forgoing interest that 

we may not otherwise have agreed to forgo. No loss was 

recognized in our consolidated 
financial statements for this 
estimated forgone interest income 
at the time of the settlement 
78   as the impact will be recognized 
over a period of years in the 
form of lower interest income as qualified borrowers benefit 

from reduced interest rates on loans refinanced under the 

Refinance Program. The impact of this forgone interest income 

on our future net interest margin
 is anticipated to be modestly 
adverse and will be influenced by the overall mortgage interest 

rate environment. The Refinance Program also affects our fair 

value for these loans. The estimated reduction of the fair value of 

our loans for the Refinance Program is approximately 

$1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, based upon the range of loans we 

estimate will be refinanced. 

 The expectations discussed above about the volume of loans 

that we are refinancing, the resulting reduction in our lifetime 

and annual interest income, and th
e reductions in fair value of 
loans for the Refinance Program exceed the amounts that would 

result from just meeting our minimum commitments under the 

Program due to the significantly higher than expected response 

we have received from our custom
ers, which was p
artially driven 
by product changes and the decision to hold interest rates 

consistent with the prevailing market environment. 
Although the Refinance Program relates to borrowers in good 
standing as to their payment history who are not experiencing 

financial difficulty, we evaluate
 each borrower to confirm their 
ability to repay their mortgage obligation. This evaluation 
includes reviewing key credit and 
underwriting policy metrics to 
validate that these borrowers are not experiencing financial 

difficulty and therefore, actions taken under the Refinance 

Program are not generally be considered a TDR. To the extent 

we determine that an eligible borrower is experiencing financial 

difficulty, we generally consid
er alternative modification 
programs that are intended for loans that may be classified and 

accounted for as a TDR.  

  Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) Settlement 
 On January 7, 2013, we announced that, along with nine 

other mortgage servicers, we entered into term sheets with the 
OCC and the FRB that provide 
the parties will enter into 
amendments to the Consent Orde
rs, which would end our IFR 
programs created by Article VII of an April 2011 Interagency 

Consent Order and replace it with an accelerated remediation 

process. The amendments to the Consent Orders have not yet 

been entered into with the OCC or FRB. 

 In aggregate, the servicers have agreed to make direct, cash 

payments of $3.3 billion and to provide $5.2 billion in additional 

assistance, such as loan modifi
cations, to consumers. Our 
portion of the cash settlement is 
$766 million, which is based on 
the proportionate share of Wells Fargo-serviced loans in the 

overall IFR population. We fully accrued the cash portion of the 

settlement in 2012, along with other remediation-related costs. 
We also committed to foreclosure prevention actions which 

include first and second lien modifications and short 

sales/deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure on $1.2 billion of loans. We 

anticipate meeting this commitment primarily through first lien 

modification and short sale activi
ties. We are required to meet 
this commitment within two years of signing the agreement and 

we anticipate that we will be
 able to meet our commitment 
within the required timelines. Th
is commitment did not result in 
any charge as we believe that
 this commitment is covered 
through the existing allowance for credit losses and the 
nonaccretable differen
ce relating to the purchased credit-
impaired loan portfolios. With this settlement, after incurring 

some trailing expenses in the first quarter of 2013, we will no 

longer incur costs associated wi
th the independent foreclosure 
reviews, which approximated $125 million per quarter during 

2012 for external consultants and additional staffing. 
  79Asset/Liability Management  
Asset/liability management involves evaluating, monitoring and 
managing of interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity and 

funding. The Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee 

(Corporate ALCO), which oversees these risks and reports 

periodically to the Board’s Fina
nce Committee, consists of senior 
financial and business executives. Each of our principal business 

groups has its own asset/lia
bility management committee and 
process linked to the Corporate ALCO process. 

 INTEREST RATE RISK
 Interest rate risk, which potentially can 
have a significant earnings impact, is an integral part of being a 

financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk 

because:  

 assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different 
times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities 

and interest rates are generally falling, earnings will initially 

decline);  
 assets and liabilities may repr
ice at the same time but by 
different amounts (for example, when the general level of 

interest rates is falling, we
 may reduce rates paid on 
checking and savings deposit acco
unts by an amount that is 
less than the general decline in market interest rates);  
 short-term and long-term market
 interest rates may change 
by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield 

curve may affect new loan 
yields and funding costs 
differently);  
 the remaining maturity of vari
ous assets or liabilities may 
shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if 

long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, MBS held 

in the securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay 

significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce 

portfolio income); or 
 interest rates may also have a 
direct or indirect effect on 
loan demand, credit losses, mo
rtgage origination volume, 
the fair value of MSRs and other financial instruments, the 

value of the pension liability and other items affecting 

earnings. 
 
 We assess interest rate risk by comparing outcomes under 

various earnings simulations using many interest rate scenarios 

that differ in the direction of inte
rest rate changes, the degree of 
change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of 

the yield curve. These simulations require assumptions 

regarding how changes in interest rates and related market 

conditions could influence driver
s of earnings and balance sheet 
composition such as loan orig
ination demand, prepayment 
speeds, deposit balances and mix,
 as well as pricing strategies. 
 Our risk measures include both net interest income 

sensitivity and interest rate se
nsitive noninterest income and 
expense impacts. We refer to the 
combination of these exposures 
as interest rate sensitive earnings. In general, the Company is 

positioned to benefit from higher interest rates. Currently, our 

profile is such that net interest 
income will benefit from higher 
interest rates as our assets reprice faster and to a greater degree 

than our liabilities, and, in response to lower market rates, our 

assets will reprice downward and to a greater degree than our 

liabilities. Our interest rate se
nsitive noninterest income and 
expense is largely driven by mortgage activity, and tends to move 
in the opposite direction of our net interest income. So, in 

response to higher interest rates, mortgage activity, primarily 

refinancing activity, generally declines. And in response to lower 

rates, mortgage activity generally increases. Mortgage results are 

also impacted by the valuatio
n of MSRs and related hedge 
positions. See the “Risk Management – Mortgage Banking 

Interest Rate and Market Risk” section in this Report for more 

information.  

 The degree to which these sensitivities offset each other is 

dependent upon the timing and ma
gnitude of changes in interest 
rates, and the slope of the yield curve. During a transition to a 

higher interest rate environment, a slowdown in interest 

sensitive earnings from the mo
rtgage banking business could 
occur quickly, while the benefi
t from balance 
sheet repricing may take more time to develop
. For example, our “slightly 
strong” scenario measures the impact of such a transition 

involving an increase in long-ter
m market rates while short-term 
rates remain relatively low. If on the other hand rates decline 

further, we would expect a ne
ar-term increase in interest 
sensitive earnings from mort
gage banking activity, while 
pressure on net interest income would take place over a longer 

period as the balance sheet reprices as described above. 

 As of December 31, 2012, 
our most recent simulations 
estimate earnings at risk over the next 24 months under a range 

of both lower and higher interest rates. The results of the 

simulations are summarized in Ta
ble 41, indicating cumulative 
net income after tax earnings sensitivity relative to the most 

likely earnings plan over the 24 month horizon (a positive range 

indicates a beneficial earnings 
sensitivity measurement relative 
to the most likely earnings plan). 
 Table 41:  Earnings Sensitivity Over 24 Month Horizon Relative 
to Most Likely Earnings Plan
     Most
   Slightly 
Slightly
     likely 
 Weak 
weak 
strong
Strong 
Ending rates: 
      Fed funds 
 0.50  
% 0 - 0.25 
0 - 0.25 
 0.50 
 4.00  
 10-year treasury (1) 
 2.50  
  1.45  
 1.98  
 3.50 
 5.10  
         Earnings relative to 
      most likely 
N/A 
 0 - 5% 
0 - 5% 
-0.9%
>5% 
(1) 
 U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury Rate
            We use the available-for-sale securities portfolio and 
exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate 
derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposures. See the “Balance 

Sheet Analysis – Securities Availa
ble for Sale” section of this 
Report for more information on the use of the available-for-sale 

securities portfolio. The notional or contractual amount, credit 

risk amount and estimated net fair
 value of the derivatives used 
to hedge our interest rate risk exposures as of December 31, 2012 

and 2011, are presented in Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial 

Statements in this Report. We use derivatives for asset/liability 

management in three main ways:  
 to convert a major portion of our long-term fixed-rate debt, 
which we issue to finance the Company, from fixed-rate 

payments to floating-rate payments by entering into 
receive-fixed swaps;  
80    to convert the cash flows from 
selected asset and/or liability 
instruments/portfolios from fixed-rate payments to 

floating-rate payments or vice versa; and  
 to economically hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, 
funded mortgage loans and MSRs using interest rate swaps, 

swaptions, futures, forwards and options. 
 MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK
 We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subjects us to 

various risks, including credit, l
iquidity and interest rate risks. 
Based on market conditions and ot
her factors, we reduce credit 
and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing some or all of the 

long-term fixed-rate mortgage loa
ns we originate and most of 
the ARMs we originate. On the other hand, we may hold 

originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in our loan 

portfolio as an investment for our growing base of core deposits. 

We determine whether the loans will be held for investment or 

held for sale at the time of 
commitment. We may subsequently 
change our intent to hold loans 
for investment and sell some or 
all of our ARMs or fixed-rate mortgages as part of our corporate 

asset/liability management. We ma
y also acquire and add to our 
securities available for sale a portion of the securities issued at 

the time we securitize MHFS.
  Notwithstanding the continued downturn in the housing 

sector, and the continued lack of
 liquidity in the nonconforming 
secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue remained 

strong, reflecting the complementary origination and servicing 

strengths of the business. The secondary market for agency-

conforming mortgages functioned well during 2012. 

 Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the 
mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may potentially 
reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our 

residential MSRs measured at fa
ir value, the value of MHFS and 
the associated income and loss 
reflected in mortgage banking 
noninterest income, the income 
and expense associated with 
instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair 

value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan 

commitments (interest rate “locks”) extended to mortgage 

applicants. 

 Interest rates affect the amount and timing of origination and 

servicing fees because consumer
 demand for new mortgages and 
the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in 

mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest 

rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees 

and may also lead to
 an increase in servicing fee income, 
depending on the level of new loans added to the servicing 

portfolio and prepayments. Given 
the time it takes for consumer 
behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the 

time required for processing a 
new application, providing the 
commitment, and securitizing and 
selling the loan, interest rate 
changes will affect origination and servicing fees with a lag. The 

amount and timing of the impact on origination and servicing 

fees will depend on the magn
itude, speed and duration of the 
change in interest rates. 

 We measure MHFS at fair value for prime MHFS 

originations for which an active secondary market and readily 

available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing 

models used for these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans 
are recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination 
costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair 

value certain of our other interests held related to residential 

loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value 

measurement for prime MHFS and other interests held, which 

we hedge with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) 

along with our MSRs measured at fair value, reduces certain 

timing differences and better matches changes in the value of 

these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as 

economic hedges for these assets. During 2012 and 2011, in 

response to continued secondary market illiquidity, we 

continued to originate certain prime non-agency loans to be held 

for investment for the foreseeable future rather than to be held 

for sale. In addition, in 2012 and 2011, we originated certain 

prime agency-eligible loans to be 
held for investment as part of 
our asset/liability management strategy. 

 We initially measure all of our MSRs at fair value and carry 

substantially all of them at fair value depending on our strategy 

for managing interest rate risk. Under this method, the MSRs 

are recorded at fair value at the 
time we sell or securitize the 
related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs carried at 

fair value reflects changes in fair
 value at the end of each quarter 
and changes are included in ne
t servicing income, a component 
of mortgage banking noninterest income. If the fair value of the 

MSRs increases, income is recogn
ized; if the fair
 value of the 
MSRs decreases, a loss is recognized. We use a dynamic and 

sophisticated model to estimate 
the fair value of our MSRs and 
periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. 

The valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve 

complex judgments by manageme
nt about matters that are 
inherently unpredictable. See “C
ritical Accounting Policies – 
Valuation of Residential Mortgage
 Servicing Rights” section of 
this Report for additional information. Changes in interest rates 

influence a variety of significant assumptions included in the 

periodic valuation of MSRs, 
including prepayment speeds, 
expected returns and potential 
risks on the servicing asset 
portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other servicing 
valuation elements. 
 A decline in interest rates ge
nerally increases the propensity 
for refinancing, reduces the expe
cted duration of the servicing 
portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of MSRs. 

This reduction in fair value caus
es a charge to income for MSRs 
carried at fair value, net of any gains on free-standing derivatives 

(economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We may choose not to 

fully hedge all the potential decline in the value of our MSRs 

resulting from a decline in inte
rest rates because the potential 
increase in origination/servicing 
fees in that scenario provides a 
partial “natural business hedge.” An increase in interest rates 

generally reduces the propensity for refinancing, extends the 

expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore 

increases the estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an 

increase in interest rates can al
so reduce mortgage loan demand 
and therefore reduce origination income. 
 The price risk associated with our MSRs is economically 

hedged with a combination of highly liquid interest rate forward 

instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate 

swaps and interest rate options. All of the instruments included 

in the hedge are marked to mar
ket daily. Because the hedging 
81Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
  instruments are traded in highly liquid markets, their prices are 
readily observable and are fully reflected in each quarter’s mark 

to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results include a combination 

of directional gain or loss due to
 market changes as well as any 
carry income generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its 

overall directional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the 

valuation of the underlying MSR asset. Gains or losses 

associated with these economic hedges are included in mortgage 

banking noninterest income. Consistent with our longstanding 

approach to hedging interest rate
 risk in the mortgage business, 
the size of the hedge and the particular combination of forward 

hedging instruments at any point in
 time is designed to reduce 
the volatility of the mortgage business’s earnings over various 

time frames within a range of mortgage interest rates. Because 

market factors, the 
composition of the mortgage servicing 
portfolio and the relationship between the origination and 

servicing sides of our mortgage business change continually, the 
types of instruments used in ou
r hedging are reviewed daily and 
rebalanced based on our evaluation of current market factors 

and the interest rate risk inherent in our MSRs portfolio. 

Throughout 2012, our economic hedging strategy generally used 

forward mortgage purchase contracts that were effective at 

offsetting the impact of interest rates on the value of the MSR 
asset. 
 Mortgage forward contracts are designed to pass the full 

economics of the underlying reference mortgage securities to the 

holder of the contract, includin
g both the directional gain and 
loss from the forward delivery of the reference securities and the 

corresponding carry income. Carry income represents the 

contract’s price accretion from the forward delivery price to the 

spot price including both the yield earned on the reference 

securities and the market implie
d cost of financing during the 
period. The actual amount of carry income earned on the hedge 

each quarter will depend on the amount of the underlying asset 

that is hedged and the particular instruments included in the 

hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the slope of the 

yield curve and other market dr
iven supply and demand factors 
affecting the specific reference securities. A steep yield curve 

generally produces higher carry income while a flat or inverted 

yield curve can result in lower or potentially negative carry 

income. The level of carry income is
 also affected by the type of 
instrument used. In general, mortgage forward contracts tend to 

produce higher carry income than interest rate swap contracts. 

Carry income is recognized over the life of the mortgage forward 

as a component of the contract’s m
ark to market gain or loss.  
 Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage 

banking is a complex process 
that requires sophisticated 
modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance 

these various aspects of the mortgage business, there are several 

potential risks to earnings: 

 Valuation changes for MSRs associated with interest rate 
changes are recorded in earnings immediately within the 

accounting period in which those interest rate changes 
occur, whereas the impact of th
ose same changes in interest 
rates on origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and 

over time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected 

from adverse changes in interest rates over a period of time 
on a cumulative basis but still display large variations in 
income from one accounting period to the next. 
 The degree to which the “natural business hedge” offsets 
valuation changes for MSRs is imperfect, varies at different 

points in the interest rate cycle, and depends not just on the 

direction of interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly 

interest rate changes. 
 Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging 
results and associated costs 
are also affected by many 
factors. Such factors include the mix of new business 

between ARMs and fixed-rate mortgages, the relationship 

between short-term and long-term interest rates, the degree 

of volatility in interest rates, the relationship between 

mortgage interest rates and other interest rate markets, and 

other interest rate factors. Additional factors that can 

impact the valuation of the MSRs include changes in 

servicing and foreclosure costs due to changes in investor or 

regulatory guidelines and changes in discount rates due to 

market participants requiring a higher return due to 

updated market expectations on
 costs and risks associated 
with investing in MSRs. Many of these factors are hard to 

predict and we may not be able 
to directly or perfectly hedge 
their effect.  
 While our hedging activities are designed to balance our 
mortgage banking interest rate risks, the financial 

instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with the 

values and income being hedg
ed. For example, the change 
in the value of ARM production held for sale from changes 

in mortgage interest 
rates may or may not be fully offset by 
Treasury and LIBOR index-ba
sed financial instruments 
used as economic hedges for such ARMs. Additionally, 
hedge-carry income we earn on our economic hedges for the 

MSRs may not continue if th
e spread between short-term 
and long-term rates decreases, we shift composition of the 

hedge to more interest rate swaps, or there are other 

changes in the market for mortgage forwards that affect the 

implied carry. 
 
 The total carrying value of our residential and commercial 

MSRs was $12.7 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2012 

and 2011, respectively. The weighted-average note rate on our 
portfolio of loans serviced for others was 4.77% and 5.14% at 

December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The carrying value of 

our total MSRs represented 0.67% and 0.76% of mortgage loans 

serviced for others at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

 As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into 

commitments to fund residentia
l mortgage loans at specified 
times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest 

rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a 

specified interest rate and within a specified period of time, 

generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These 

loan commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans 

that will result from the exercise
 of the commitments will be held 
for sale. These derivative loan 
commitments are recognized at 
fair value in the bala
nce sheet with changes in their fair values 
recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest income. The 

fair value of these commitments 
include, at inception and during 
the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash 
82   flows related to the associated servicing of the loan as part of the 
fair value measurement of 
derivative loan commitments. 
Changes subsequent to inception 
are based on changes in fair 
value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the 

commitment and changes in the prob
ability that the loan will not 
fund within the terms of the commitment, referred to as a fall-
out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is 

affected primarily by changes in 
interest rates and the passage of 
time. 
 Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the 

risk that the price of the mo
rtgage loans underlying the 
commitments might decline due 
to increases in mortgage 
interest rates from inception of the rate lock to the funding of the 

loan. To minimize this risk, we employ forwards and options, 

Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards 

and options contracts as economic hedges against the potential 

decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that these 

derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair 

value that will either fully or partially offset the changes in fair 

value of the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in 

investor demand, such as concer
ns about credit risk, can also 
cause changes in the spread relationships between underlying 

loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot 
be hedged. 
 MARKET RISK – TRADING ACTIVITIES  
We engage in trading 
activities primarily to accomm
odate the investment and risk 
management activities of our 
customers, execute economic 
hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a 

very limited amount of proprietary trading for our own account. 

These activities primarily occur within our trading businesses 

and include entering into transa
ctions with our customers that 
are recorded as trading assets and liabilities on our balance 

sheet. All of our trading assets
 and liabilities, including 
securities, foreign exchange
 transactions, commodity 
transactions and derivatives are carried at fair value. Income 

earned related to these trading 
activities include net interest 
income and changes in fair valu
e related to trading assets and 
liabilities. Net interest income
 earned on trading assets and 
liabilities is reflected in the inte
rest income and 
interest expense 
components of our income statem
ent. Changes in fair value of 
trading assets and liabilities are re
flected in net gains (losses) on 
trading activities, a component of noninterest income in our 

income statement.   

 From a market risk perspectiv
e, our net income is exposed to 
changes in the fair value of trad
ing assets and liabilities due to 
changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, 
equity and commodity prices. Our Market Risk Committee, 

which is a sub-committee of Corporate ALCO, provides 

governance and oversight over market risk-taking activities 

across the Company and establishes and monitors risk limits.  
  
  Table 42 presents total revenue from trading activities. 
 Table 42:  Income from Trading Activities
       Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2010  
Interest income (1) 
$  1,358 
 1,440 
  1,098  
Less: Interest expense (2) 
  245 
 316 
  227  
 Net interest income 
  1,113 
 1,124 
  871  
Noninterest income: 
     Net gains (losses) from 
      trading activities (3): 
      Customer accommodation 
 1,347 
 1,029 
  1,448  
  Economic hedging and other 
 345 
 (1)
  178  
  Proprietary trading 
  15 
 (14)
  22  
   Total net trading gains 
 1,707 
 1,014 
  1,648  
Total trading-related net interest 
     and noninterest income 
$  2,820 
 2,138 
  2,519  
        (1) 
Represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities. 
(2) 
Represents interest and dividend expense incurred on trading securities we have 
sold but have not yet purchased. 
(3) 
Represents realized gains (losses) from our trading activity and unrealized gains 
(losses) due to changes in fair value of our trading positions, attributable to the 
type of business activity. 
          For further information regarding the fair value of our 
trading assets and liabilities, re
fer to Note 16 (Derivatives) and 
Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets
 and Liabilities) to Financial 
Statements in this Report.  

 
Customer accommodation  
Customer accommod
ation activities 
are conducted to help customers 
manage their investment needs 
and risk management and hedging activities. We engage in 

market-making activities or act as an intermediary to purchase 
or sell financial instruments in anticipation or in response to 

customer needs. This category al
so includes positions we use to 
manage our exposure to 
such transactions.   
For the majority of our custom
er accommodation trading, we 
serve as intermediary between buyer and seller. For example, we 

may purchase or sell a derivati
ve to a customer who wants to 
manage interest rate risk exposure. We typically enter into 
offsetting derivative(s) or security positions with a separate 
counterparty or exchange to manage our exposure to the 

derivative with our customer. We earn income on this activity 

based on the transaction price difference between the customer 

and offsetting derivative or security positions, which is reflected 

in the fair value changes of the positions recorded in net gains 

(losses) on trading activities. 

 Customer accommodati
on trading also includes net gains 
related to market-making activities in which we take positions to 

facilitate customer
 order flow. For example, we may own 
securities recorded as trading assets (long positions) or sold 

securities we have not yet purchased, recorded as trading 

liabilities (short positions), typically on a short-term basis, to 
facilitate anticipated buying 
and selling demand from our 
customers. As market-maker in these securities, we earn income 

due (1) to the difference between the price paid or received for 

the purchase and sale of the secu
rity (bid-ask spread) and (2) the 
net interest income and 
change in fair value of the long or short 
positions during the short-term period held on our balance 
83Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
  sheet. Additionally, we may enter into separate derivative or 
security positions to manage our 
exposure related to our long or 
short security positions. Collectively, income earned on this type 

of market-making activity is reflec
ted in the fair value changes of 
these positions recorded in net gain (losses) on trading activities. 

   
Economic hedges and other  
Economic hedges in trading are not 
designated in a hedge accounting relationship and exclude 

economic hedging related to our 
asset/liability risk management 
and substantially all mortgage
 banking risk management 
activities. Economic hedging activities include the use of trading 

securities to economically hedge risk exposures related to non-

trading activities or derivatives 
to hedge risk exposures related 
to trading assets or trading li
abilities. Economic hedges are 
unrelated to our customer accommodation activities. Other 

activities include financial assets held for investment purposes 

that we elected to carry at fair value with changes in fair value 

recorded to earnings in or
der to mitigate accounting 
measurement mismatches or 
avoid embedded derivative 
accounting complexities.  

 
Proprietary trading  
Proprietary trading consists of security or 
derivative positions executed for our own account based upon 
market expectations or to benefit from price differences between 
financial instruments and markets. Proprietary trading activity 

is expected to be restricted by
 the Dodd-Frank Act prohibitions 
known as the “Volcker Rule,” which has not yet been finalized. 

On October 11, 2011, federal banking agencies and the SEC 

issued proposed regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. We 

believe our definition of proprietary trading is consistent with 

the proposed regulations. However, given that final rule-making 

is required by various governmental regulatory agencies to 

define proprietary trading within the context of the final Volcker 

Rule, our definition of proprietary trading may change. We have 

reduced or exited certain business ac
tivities in anticipation of the 
final Volcker Rule. As discussed within this section and the 

noninterest income section of our financial results, proprietary 

trading activity is not significant to our business or financial 

results. 

  
Risk Measurement  
Value-at-Risk (VaR) is a standardized 
approach for monitoring and reporting market risk. We use VaR 

metrics complemented with se
nsitivity analysis and stress 
testing in managing and measur
ing the risk associated with 
trading activities. 
 Value-at-Risk
  VaR is a statistical risk measure used to estimate 
the potential loss from adverse market moves on trading and 

other positions carried at fair value. VaR is determined using a 

historical simulation approach 
and measures the worst expected 
loss over a given time interval and within a given confidence 

interval. We measure and report daily VaR at a 99% confidence 

interval based on actual changes in rates and prices over each 

trading day in the previous year. 
 The historical simulation appr
oach is used to identify the 
critical risk driver of each t
rading position with respect to 
interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and equity 

and commodity prices. The risk 
drivers for each position are 
updated on a daily basis. The hi
storical simulation approach 
employs historical scenarios of the risk factors from each trading 

day in the previous year, and esti
mates the value of the portfolio 
on the scenarios to obtain a daily net trading revenue 

distribution. 

 The Company calculates VaR 
for management purposes as 
well as for regulatory purposes. The management view of VaR is 

used for trading limits and is a 
wider view of risk compared to 
Total Regulatory VaR. Total Regulatory VaR is calculated 

according to regulatory rules and is used to calculate market risk 

regulatory capital. It includes both General VaR and Specific 
Risk VaR. Regulatory General VaR is the risk of loss due to broad 

market movements such as moveme
nts in interest rates, equity 
prices or foreign exchange rates. Sp
ecific Risk VaR is the risk of 
loss on a position that could result from factors other than broad 

market movements and includes 
event risk, default risk and 
idiosyncratic risk. 

 Table 43 below shows the results of the Company’s 

Regulatory General VaR measures for 2012. 
 Table 43:  Regulatory General Value-at-Risk (VaR)
      Year ended December 31, 2012
    Period 
    (in millions) 
end 
Average
 Low 
High 
Risk Categories
        Credit 
$  19  
  23  
  10  
 43  
Interest rate 
  13  
  19  
  7  
 41  
Equity 
  5  
  5  
  3  
 12  
Commodity 
  1  
  2  
  1  
 5  
Foreign exchange 
  4  
  2  
  -  
 6  
Diversification benefit 
  (24) 
(1) 
 (27) 
(1) 
 -  
 -  
 Total 
$  18  
  24  
   (1) The period-end VaR and average VaR were less than the sum of the VaR 
components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification.  The 
diversification effect arises because the risks are not perfectly correlated causing 
a portfolio of positions to usually be less risky than the sum of the risks of the 
positions alone. 
           84     Table 44 presents the frequency distribution of our daily net 
trading revenue included in ba
cktesting of Regulatory VaR 
(described below) for 2012. These net revenues represent net 

interest income and net gains (losses) from trading activities 

related only to trading positions that meet the regulatory 

definition of a covered position. Net trading revenues related to 
trading positions that do not meet this definition include activity 
related to long-term positions held for economic hedging 

purposes, credit adjustments and other activity not 

representative of daily price ch
anges driven by market risk 
factors. 
 Table 44:  Distribution of Daily Net Trading Revenue Used for  
Backtesting of Regulatory VaR: Year Ended December 31, 2012 
  VaR Backtesting  Backtesting is one form of validation of the 
VaR model. Backtesting compares 
the daily VaR number to the 
actual net trading revenue for each of the trading days in the 

preceding year. Because our confidence interval is 99 percent, 

statistically, losses will exceed VaR on average, one out of 1oo 

trading days or two to three times per year. Any observed loss in 
excess of the VaR number is taken as an exception. No 
backtesting exceptions occurred in
 2012. The number of actual 
backtesting exceptions is de
pendent on current market 
performance relative to historic market volatility. Table 45 

shows daily net trading revenue and Total Regulatory VaR for 

2012.  Table 45:  Daily Net Trading Revenue and Total Regulatory VaR: Year Ended December 31, 2012 
  85Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
  Stress Testing
  While VaR captures the risk of loss due to adverse 
changes in markets using recent 
historical data, stress testing 
captures the Company’s exposure to extreme events. Stress 

testing measures the impacts fr
om extreme, but low probability 
market movements. Stress scenarios
 estimate the risk of losses 
based on management’s assumpti
ons of abnormal but severe 
market movements such as severe
 credit spread widening or a 
large decline in equity prices. These scenarios also assume that 

the market moves happen instantaneously and no repositioning 

or hedging activity takes place to mitigate losses as events 

unfold. The stress scenarios ar
e updated with recent market 
trends and are reviewed on a da
ily basis by senior management. 
The stress scenarios are used for desk level monitoring as well as 

overall company-wide estimates. 
 Sensitivities
  Sensitivity analysis is the 
estimated risk of loss for a 
single measure such as a 1 basis 
point increase in rates or a 1 
percent decrease in equity pr
ices. We conduct and monitor 
sensitivity on interest rates, cred
it spreads, volatility, equity, 
commodity, and foreign exchang
e. Because VaR is based upon 
previous moves in market risk fact
ors over recent 
periods, it may 
not provide accurate predictions of future market moves. 

Sensitivity analysis compleme
nts VaR as it provides an 
indication of risk relative to each
 factor irrespective of historical 
market moves. Sensitivities are mo
nitored at both the desk level 
and at an aggregated level by 
senior management on a daily 
basis. Our corporate market risk management function 

aggregates all Company exposures to monitor the risk 

sensitivities are within establis
hed tolerances. Changes to the 
Company’s sensitivities are analyzed and reported on a daily 

basis. The Company monitors risk exposure from a variety of 

perspectives, which include line of business, product, risk type 

and legal entity. 
 MARKET RISK – EQUITY INVESTMENTS
 We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in
 the equity markets. We make 
and manage direct equity inve
stments in start-up businesses, 
emerging growth companie
s, management buy-outs, 
acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in 

non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity 

investments. These private equity investments are made within 

capital allocations approved by management and the Board. The 

Board’s policy is to review bu
siness developments, key risks and 
historical returns for the private equity investment portfolio at 
least annually. Management reviews the valuations of these 

investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible 

OTTI. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on 

facts and circumstances of each 
individual investment and the 
expectations for that investment’s
 cash flows and capital needs, 
the viability of its business 
model and our exit strategy. 
Nonmarketable investments includ
e private equity investments 
accounted for under th
e cost method and equity method. Private 
equity investments are subject to OTTI. 

 As part of our business to support our customers, we trade 

public equities, listed/OTC equi
ty derivatives and convertible 
bonds. We have parameters that govern these activities. We also 

have marketable equity securities in the securities available-for-

sale portfolio, including securities relating to our venture capital 
activities. We manage these investments within capital risk 
limits approved by management
 and the Board and monitored 
by Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on these securities are 

recognized in net income when re
alized and periodically include 
OTTI charges. 
Changes in equity market prices 
may also indirectly affect our 
net income by (1) the value 
of third party assets under 
management and, hence, fee income, (2) particular borrowers, 

whose ability to repay principal an
d/or interest may be affected 
by the stock market, or (3) brokerage activity, related 

commission income and other busi
ness activities. Each business 
line monitors and manages these indirect risks. 

Table 46 provides information regarding our marketable and 

nonmarketable equity investments. 
 Table 46:  Nonmarketable and Marketable Equity Investments
        December 31,
 (in millions) 
 2012  
2011 Nonmarketable equity investments: 
    Cost method: 
     Private equity investments 
$  2,572  
 3,444 
  Federal bank stock 
  4,227  
 4,617 
   Total cost method 
  6,799  
 8,061 
 Equity method and other: 
     LIHTC investments (1) 
  4,767  
 4,077 
  Private equity and other 
  6,156  
 4,670 
   Total equity method and other 
  10,923  
 8,747 
    Total nonmarketable 
       equity investments (2) 
$  17,722  
 16,808 
Marketable equity securities: 
    Cost 
$  2,337  
 2,929 
 Net unrealized gains 
  448  
 488 
    Total marketable 
       equity securities (3) 
$  2,785  
 3,417 
(1) Represents low income housing tax credit investments. 
(2) 
Included in other assets on the balance sheet. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, 
Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in this Report for 
additional information. 
(3) 
Included in securities available for sale. See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) 
to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 
         LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING
 The objective of effective liquidity 
management is to ensure that
 we can meet customer loan 
requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other 

cash commitments efficiently 
under both normal operating 
conditions and under unpredictabl
e circumstances of industry or 
market stress. To achieve this objective, the Corporate ALCO 

establishes and monitors liqu
idity guidelines that require 
sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding 
requirements and to avoid over
-dependence on volatile, less 
reliable funding markets. We set these guidelines for both the 

consolidated balance sheet and for the Parent to ensure that the 

Parent is a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking 
banking subsidiaries. 
Unencumbered debt and equity securities in the securities 
available-for-sale portfolio provide asset liquidity, in addition to 

the immediately liquid resource
s of cash and due from banks 
and federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale 

agreements and other short-ter
m investments. The weighted-
86   average expected remaining matu
rity of the debt securities 
within this portfolio was 5.5 years
 at December 31, 2012. Of the 
$220.9 billion (cost basis) of debt
 securities in this portfolio at 
December 31, 2012, $48.0 billion (
22%) is expected to mature or 
be prepaid in 2013 and an additional $44.4 billion (20%) in 
2014. Asset liquidity is further en
hanced by our ability to sell or 
securitize loans in secondary m
arkets and to pledge loans to 
access secured borrowing faciliti
es through the Federal Home 
Loan Banks (FHLB) and the FRB. In 2012, we sold mortgage 

loans of $483.5 billion. The amount of mortgage loans and other 
consumer loans available to be 
sold, securitized or pledged was 
approximately $211.1 billion at December 31, 2012.  
Core customer deposits have historically provided a sizeable 
source of relatively stable
 and low-cost funds. At 
December 31, 2012, core deposits were 118% of total loans 
compared with 113% a year ago. Additional funding is provided 

by long-term debt, other foreign deposits, and short-term 
borrowings. Long-term debt averag
ed $127.5 billion in 2012 and 
$141.1 billion in 2011. Short-term borrowings averaged 

$51.2 billion in 2012 and $51.8 billion in 2011.
 We anticipate making capital e
xpenditures of approximately 
$1.4 billion in 2013 for our stores, relocation and remodeling of 
our facilities, and routine replacement of furniture, equipment 
and servers. We fund expenditures from various sources, 
including liquid assets and borrowings. 
We access domestic and intern
ational capital markets for 
long-term funding (generally greater than one year) through 

issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and 
asset-backed secured funding. I
nvestors in the lo
ng-term capital markets, as well as other market participants, generally will 

consider, among other factors,
 a company’s debt rating in 
making investment decisions. Rati
ng agencies base their ratings 
on many quantitative and qualit
ative factors, including capital 
adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, the level and 

quality of earnings, and rating agency assumptions regarding the 

probability and extent of Federal financial assistance or support 

for certain large financial institutions. Adverse changes in these 

factors could result in a reductio
n of our credit rating; however, 
a reduction in credit rating would 
not cause us to violate any of 
our debt covenants. 
Generally, rating agencies review a firm’s ratings at least 
annually. During 2012, our ratings were affirmed by Moody’s, 

Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ra
tings, and confirmed by DBRS. 
There were no changes to our credit ratings in 2012. See the 

“Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management” and “Risk 

Factors” sections of this Repo
rt for additional information 
regarding our credit ratings as of December 31, 2012, and the 

potential impact a credit ratin
g downgrade would have on our 
liquidity and operations, as well 
as Note 16 (Derivatives) to 
Financial Statements in this Report for information regarding 

additional collateral and funding obligations required for certain 

derivative instruments in the event our credit ratings were to fall 

below investment grade.  
The credit ratings of the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
as of December 31, 2012, are presented in Table 47.  
 Table 47:  Credit Ratings
    Wells Fargo & Company 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
 Senior debt 
 Short-term
borrowings 
Long-term 
deposits 
 Short-term 
borrowings 
Moody's 
A2  P-1 
Aa3  P-1 
S&P 
A+  A-1 
AA- 
 A-1+ 
Fitch Ratings 
AA- 
 F1+ 
AA  F1+ 
DBRS 
AA  R-1* 
AA**  R-1** 
* middle    **high
           On December 20, 2011, the FRB proposed enhanced liquidity 
risk management rules. On January 6, 2013, the BCBS endorsed 

a revised liquidity framework for banks. These rules have not yet 

been adopted and finalized by the FRB. The proposed rules 

would require modifications to our existing liquidity risk 

management processes.
 This includes increased frequency of 
liquidity reporting and stress te
sting, maintenance of a 30-day 
liquidity buffer comprised of high
ly-liquid assets and additional 
corporate governance requirements. We will continue to analyze 

the proposed rules and other regulatory proposals that may 

affect liquidity risk management, including Basel III, to 

determine the level of operational 
or compliance impact to Wells 
Fargo. For additional information see the “Capital Management” 

and “Regulatory Reform” sections in this Report.
  Parent
 Under SEC rules, our Parent is classified as a “well-
known seasoned issuer,” which allows it to file a registration 

statement that does not have a 
limit on issuance capacity. In 
April 2012, the Parent filed a registration statement with the 
SEC for the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, preferred 

stock and other securities. The Parent’s ability to issue debt and 

other securities under this registration statement is limited by 

the debt issuance authority granted by the Board. The Parent is 

currently authorized by the Board to issue $60 billion in 
outstanding short-term debt and $170 billion in outstanding 
long-term debt. During 2012, the Parent issued $17.0 billion of 

senior notes, of which $12.1 billion were registered with the SEC. 

In January 2013, the Parent issued an additional $1.1 billion of 

senior notes, of which $100 million were registered with the 

SEC. In addition, in February 2013, the Parent issued 

$2.0 billion of registered subo
rdinated medium-term notes and 
$100 million of senior notes.  

 The Parent’s proceeds from securities issued in 2012 and 

January and February 2013 were used for general corporate 

purposes, and, unless otherwise specified in the applicable 

prospectus or prospectus supplement, we expect the proceeds 
87Risk Management – Asset/Liability Management 
(continued) 
  from securities issued in the future will be used for the same 
purposes. Depending on market conditions, we may purchase 

our outstanding debt securities fr
om time to time in privately 
negotiated or open market tran
sactions, by tend
er offer, or 
otherwise. 

 Table 48 provides information regarding the Parent’s 

medium-term note (MTN) programs. The Parent may issue 

senior and subordinated debt securities under Series L & M, and 

the European and Australian programmes. Under Series K, the 

Parent may issue senior debt securities linked to one or more 

indices or bearing interest at
 a fixed or floating rate. 
 Table 48:  Medium-Term Note (MTN) Programs
      December 31, 2012
       Debt
 Available 
   Date 
 issuance 
for 
(in billions) 
established 
 authority
 issuance 
MTN program: 
     Series L & M (1) 
May 2012 
$ 25.0  
 21.0  
 Series K (1)(3) 
April 2010 
  25.0 
  23.1  
 European (2)(3) 
December 2009 
  25.0 
  20.8  
 Australian (2)(4) 
June 2005 
AUD
 10.0  
 6.7  
 (1) SEC registered. 
(2) 
Not registered with the SEC. May not be offered in the United States without 
applicable exemptions from registration.  
(3) 
As amended in April 2012. 
(4) 
As amended in October 2005 and March 2010. 
        Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized 
by its board of directors to issue $100 billion in outstanding 
short-term debt and $125 billion
 in outstanding long-term debt. 
At December 31, 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had available 

$100 billion in short-term debt issuance authority and 

$102.3 billion in long-term debt
 issuance authority. In March 
2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a $100 billion bank 

note program under which, subject to any other debt 

outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue 

$50 billion in outstanding short-term senior notes and 

$50 billion in outstanding long-term senior or subordinated 

notes. During 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $4.6 billion 

of senior notes. At December 31, 2012, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 

had remaining issuance capacity 
under the bank note program of 
$50 billion in short-term senior notes and $45.4 billion in long-

term senior or subordinated notes. In February 2013, Wells 

Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $3.0 billion of senior floating-rate 
extendible notes. 
 Wells Fargo Canada Corporation
 In January 2012, 
Wells Fargo Canada Corporation (WFCC, formerly known as 

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation), an indirect wholly 

owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the 

Canadian provincial securities commissions a base shelf 

prospectus for the distribution from
 time to time in Canada of up 
to CAD $7.0 billion in medium
-term notes. During 2012, WFCC 
issued CAD $3.0 billion in medium-term notes. At 

December 31, 2012, CAD $4.0 billion remained available for 

future issuance. In January 2013, WFCC issued an additional 

CAD $500 million in senior me
dium-term notes. All medium-
term notes issued by WFCC are 
unconditionally guaranteed by 
the Parent. 
 FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP
 We are a member 
of the Federal Home 
Loan Banks based in Dallas, Des Moines 
and San Francisco (collectively, 
the FHLBs). Each member of the 
FHLBs is required to maintain 
a minimum investment in capital 
stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of directors of each 

FHLB can increase the minimum 
investment requirements in 
the event it has concluded that a
dditional capital is required to 
allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any 

increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of 

specified ranges requires the a
pproval of the 
Federal Housing 
Finance Board. Because the extent 
of any obligation to increase 
our investment in any of the FHLBs depends entirely upon the 

occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the 

FHLBs are not determinable. 

 The FHLBs are a group of cooperatives that lending 

institutions use to finance housing and economic development in 

local communities. About 80% of U.S. lending institutions, 

including Wells Fargo, rely on the FHLBs for low-cost funds. We 
use the funds to support home mortgage lending and other 

community investments.
 88   Capital Management 
 We have an active program for managing stockholders’ equity 
and regulatory capital, and main
tain a comprehensive process 
for assessing the Company’s overall capital adequacy. We 

generate capital primarily through 
the retention of earnings net 
of dividends. Our objective is to
 maintain capital at an amount 
commensurate with our risk profile and risk tolerance 
objectives, and to meet both re
gulatory and market expectations. 
Our potential sources of stockholders’ equity include retained 

earnings and issuances of common and preferred stock. 

Retained earnings increased $13.3 billion from 

December 31, 2011, predominantly from Wells Fargo net income 
of $18.9 billion, less common and preferred stock dividends of 

$5.6 billion. During 2012, we issued approximately 123 million 

shares of common stock, substantially all of which related to 

employee benefit plans. In August 2012, we issued 30 million 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a 
share of the Company’s newly issued Non-Cumulative Perpetual 

Class A Preferred Stock, Series N, for an aggregate public 

offering price of $750 million. In November 2012, we issued 

26 million Depositary Shares,
 each representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the 
Company’s newly issued Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series O, for an 

aggregate public offering price of $650 million. During 2012, we 

repurchased approximately 84 million shares of common stock 

in open market transactions and 
from employee benefit plans, at 
a net cost of $2.7 billion, and approximately 36 million shares of 
common stock at a net cost of $1.2
 billion from the settlement of 
forward purchase contracts. During fourth quarter 2012, the 

Company entered into a forward purchase contract at a net cost 

of $200 million that is expected to
 settle in first quarter 2013 for 
an estimated 6 million shares. For additional information about 

our forward repurchase agreemen
ts see Note 1 (Summary of 
Significant Accounting Policies) to
 Financial Statements in this 
Report.  

 
Regulatory Capital Guidelines 

The Company and each of our subsidiary banks are subject to 

various regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered 

by the FRB and the OCC. Risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines 

establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to different 

categories of assets and off-balance sheet exposures. At 

December 31, 2012, the Company and each of our subsidiary 

banks were “well-capitalized” under applicable regulatory capital 
adequacy guidelines. See Note
 26 (Regulatory and Agency 
Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for 

additional information. 

 Current regulatory RBC rules are based primarily on broad 

credit-risk considerations and li
mited market-related risks, but 
do not take into account other types of risk facing a financial 

services company. Our capital 
adequacy assessment process 
contemplates a wide range of risks that the Company is exposed 

to and also takes into consideration our performance under a 

variety of stressed economic conditions, as well as regulatory 

expectations and guidance, ratin
g agency viewpoints and the 
view of capital markets participants. 
 In 2007, U.S. bank regulators approved a final rule adopting 
international guidelines for determining regulatory capital 

known as “Basel II.” Basel II incorporates three pillars that 

address (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which 

relates to the computation of capital and internal assessment 

processes, and (c) market di
scipline, through increased 
disclosure requirements. We entered the “parallel run phase” of 

Basel II in July 2012. During the “parallel run phase,” banks 

must successfully complete at 
least a four quarter evaluation 
period under supervision from regulatory agencies in order to be 

compliant with the Basel II final rule. 

 In December 2010, the 
Basel Committee on Bank 
Supervision (BCBS) finalized a se
t of international guidelines for 
determining regulatory capital known as “Basel III.” These 

guidelines were developed in respon
se to the financial crisis of 
2008 and 2009 and were intend
ed to address many of the 
weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to 

the crisis including excessive
 leverage, inadequate and low 
quality capital and insufficient l
iquidity buffers. The guidelines, 
among other things, increase 
minimum capital requirements 
and when fully phased in requ
ire bank holding companies to 
maintain a minimum ratio of Ti
er 1 common equity to risk-
weighted assets of at least 7.0% 
consisting of a 
minimum ratio of 
4.5% plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer. 

 The BCBS has also proposed additional Tier 1 common 

equity surcharge requirements fo
r global systemically important 
banks (G-SIBs). The surcharge ranges from 1.0% to 3.5% of risk-

weighted assets depending on th
e bank’s systemic importance, 
which is determined under an indicator-based approach that 
would consider five broad cate
gories: cross-jurisdictional 
activity; size; inter-connectedness; substitutability/financial 
institution infrastructure and complexity. These additional 

capital requirements for G-SIBs
, which would be phased in 
beginning in January 2016 an
d become fully effective on 
January 1, 2019, would be in addition to the minimum Basel III 

7.0% Tier 1 common equity requ
irement finalized in December 
2010. The Financial Stability Bo
ard (FSB), in an updated list 
published in November 2012 
based on year-end 2011 data, 
identified the Company as 
one of the 28 G-SIBs and 
provisionally determined that 
the Company’s surcharge would 
be 1.0%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs and their 
required surcharges prior to implementation based on 

additional or future data. 

 U.S. regulatory authorities ha
ve been considering the BCBS 
capital guidelines and proposals,
 and in June 2012, the U.S. 
banking regulators jointly issued three notices of proposed 

rulemaking that are essentially intended to implement the BCBS 

capital guidelines for U.S. bank
s. Together these notices of 
proposed rulemaking would, among other things: 

 implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory 
capital reforms including those th
at revise the definition of 
capital, increase minimum ca
pital ratios, and introduce a 
minimum Tier 1 common equity 
ratio of 4.5% and a capital 
conservation buffer of 2.5% 
(for a total minimum Tier 1 
common equity ratio of 
7.0%) and a potential 
countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be 
89Capital Management 
(continued) 
  imposed by regulators at their di
scretion if it is determined 
that a period of excessive credit
 growth is contributing to an 
increase in systemic risk; 
 revise “Basel I” rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to 
enhance risk sensitivity; 
 modify the existing Basel II ad
vanced approaches rules for 
calculating risk-weighted assets 
to implement Basel III; and  
 comply with the Dodd-Frank 
Act provision prohibiting the 
reliance on external credit ratings. 
  Although the proposals contem
plated an effective date of 
January 1, 2013, with phased in compliance requirements, the 

rules have not yet been finalized 
by the U.S. banking regulators 
due to the volume of comments received and concerns expressed 

during the comment period. The notices of proposed rulemaking 

did not address the BCBS capital 
surcharge proposals for G-SIBs 
or the proposed Basel III liquidity standards. U.S. regulatory 

authorities have indicated that 
these proposals will be addressed 
at a later date. The U.S. banking regulators have approved a final 

rule to implement changes to the 
market risk capital rule, which 
requires banking organizations with
 significant trading activities 
to adjust their capital requirements to better account for the 

market risks of those activities. 
 Although uncertainty exists regarding final capital rules, we 
evaluate the impact of Basel II
I on our capital ratios based on 
our interpretation of the proposed capital requirements and we 

estimate that our Tier 1 common equity ratio under the Basel III 

capital proposals exceeded the fu
lly phased-in minimum of 7.0% 
by 119 basis points at December 31, 2012. The proposed Basel III 

capital rules and interpretations and assumptions used in 

estimating our Basel III calculations are subject to change 

depending on final promulgation of Basel III capital rulemaking. 

 In October 2012, the FRB issued final rules regarding stress 

testing requirements as required under the Dodd-Frank Act 

provision imposing enhanced prudential standards on large 

bank holding companies (BHCs) such as Wells Fargo. The OCC 

issued and finalized similar rules during 2012 for stress testing 

of large national banks. These stress testing rules, which became 

effective for Wells Fargo on November 15, 2012, set forth the 

timing and type of stress test 
activities large BHCs and banks 
must undertake as well as rules governing testing controls, 

oversight and disclosure requirements. 

 Table 49 and Table 50, which appear at the end of this 

Capital Management section, provide information regarding our 

Tier 1 common equity calcul
ations under Basel I and as 
estimated under Basel III, respectively.
  
Capital Planning  

In late 2011, the FRB finalized rules to require large BHCs to 

submit capital plans annually for review to determine if the FRB 

had any objections before making
 any capital distributions. The 
rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material 

changes in a BHC’s risk profile, including as a result of any 
significant acquisitions. 
 On March 13, 2012, the FRB notified us that it did not object 

to our 2012 capital plan includ
ed in the 2012 Comprehensive 
Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). Since the FRB notification, 
the Company took several capital actions during 2012, including 
increasing its quart
erly common stock dividend rate to 
$0.22 per share, completing the redemption of $2.7 billion of 

trust preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 

capital under the Dodd-Frank Act and the proposed Basel III 

capital standards, repurchasing shares of our common stock, 

and purchasing an aggregate of $2.2 billion of our subordinated 

debt with an effective yield of 
2.02% in tender offers for such 
securities. In January 2013, the Company increased its dividend 

to $0.25 per share and submitted for redemption an additional 

$2.8 billion of trust preferred se
curities. Each of these actions 
was contemplated by the capital plan included in the 2012 

CCAR. 

 Under the FRB’s capital plan ru
le, our 2013 CCAR included a 
comprehensive capital plan supported by an assessment of 

expected uses and sources of 
capital over a given planning 
horizon under a range of expected and stress scenarios, similar 

to the process the FRB used to co
nduct a CCAR in 2012. As part 
of the 2013 CCAR, the FRB also generated a supervisory stress 

test driven by a sharp decline 
in the economy and significant 
decline in asset pricing using the information provided by the 

Company to estimate performance. The FRB is expected to 

review the supervisory stress results both as required under the 

Dodd-Frank Act using a common set of capital actions for all 

large BHCs and by taking into 
account the Company’s proposed 
capital actions. We submitted our board approved 2013 capital 

plan to the FRB on January 4, 
2013. The FRB has indicated that 
it will publish its supervisory stress test results as required 

under the Dodd-Frank Act on March 7, 2013, and the related 

CCAR results taking into account the Company’s proposed 

capital actions on March 14, 2013.   
  Securities Repurchases 

From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to 

repurchase shares of our common stock. Although we announce 

when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do 

not give any public notice before we repurchase our shares. 

Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market 

repurchases, including block transactions, accelerated or 

delayed block transactions, forw
ard transactions, and similar 
transactions. Additionally, we may enter into plans to purchase 

stock that satisfy the conditions of
 Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Various factors determine the amount 

and timing of our share repurchases, including our capital 

requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for 

employee benefit plans and acquisitions, market conditions 

(including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and 

legal considerations, including the FRB’s response to our capital 

plan and to changes in our risk profile. 

 In first quarter 2011, the Board authorized the repurchase of 

200 million shares of our comm
on stock, which was completed 
in 2012. In October 2012, the Board authorized the repurchase 

of an additional 200 million sh
ares. At December 31, 2012, we 
had remaining authority under th
is authorization to purchase 
approximately 198 million shares, subject to regulatory and legal 

conditions. For more information about share repurchases 

during 2012, see Part II, Item 5 of our 2012 Form 10-K.  

 Historically, our policy has been to repurchase shares under 

the “safe harbor” conditions of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities 
90   Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume 
of repurchases. Rule 10b-18 impo
ses an additional daily volume 
limitation on share repurchases during a pending merger or 

acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or 

all of the consideration. Our 
management may determine that 
during a pending stock merger 
or acquisition when the safe 
harbor would otherwise be available, 
it is in our best interest to 
repurchase shares in excess of 
this additional daily volume 
limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in 

compliance with the other cond
itions of the safe harbor, 
including the standing daily vo
lume limitation that applies 
whether or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition. 

  In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase 
Program (CPP), a part of the Tr
oubled Asset Relief Program 
(TARP), we issued to the U.S. Treasury Department warrants to 

purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock with an 

exercise price of $34.01 per share expiring on October 28, 2018. 

The Board authorized the repurchase by the Company of up to 

$1 billion of the warrants. On May 26, 2010, in an auction by the 

U.S. Treasury, we purchased 70,165,963 of the warrants at a 

price of $7.70 per warrant. We have purchased an additional 

986,426 warrants, all on the open market, since the U.S. 
Treasury auction. At December 31, 2012, there were 
39,109,299 warrants outstanding and exercisable and 

$452 million of unused warrant repurchase authority. 

Depending on market conditions, 
we may purchase from time to 
time additional warrants in privately negotiated or open market 

transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 

 91Capital Management 
(continued) 
  Table 49:  Tier 1 Common Equity Under Basel I (1)
            December 31, 
(in billions) 
   2012  
  2011 
 Total equity 
 $  158.9  
  141.7 
 Noncontrolling interests 
   (1.3) 
  (1.5)
  Total Wells Fargo stockholders' equity 
   157.6  
  140.2 
 Adjustments: 
      Preferred equity 
   (12.0) 
  (10.6)
  Goodwill and intangible assets (other than MSRs) 
   (32.9)
   (34.0)
  Applicable deferred taxes 
   3.2 
   3.8 
  MSRs over specified limitations 
   (0.7) 
  (0.8)
  Cumulative other comprehensive income 
   (5.6) 
  (3.1)
  Other 
   (0.6) 
  (0.4)
   Tier 1 common equity 
(A) 
$  109.0  
  95.1 
 Total risk-weighted assets (2) 
(B) 
$  1,077.1  
  1,005.6 
 Tier 1 common equity to total risk-weighted assets (2) 
(A)/(B) 
  10.12  
%  9.46 
 (1) Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess
 the capital position of financial services 
companies. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and h
as included this non-GAAP financial 
information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in such information on the part 
of market participants. 
(2) 
Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives an
d off-balance sheet items are assigned to one 
of several broad risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The a
ggregate dollar amount in each risk category is 
then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categorie
s are aggregated for determining total risk-
weighted assets. Effective September 30, 2012,
 the Company refined its determination of the risk weighting of certain unused le
nding commitments that provide for the 
ability to issue standby letters of credit and commitments to issue standby letters of credit under syndication arrangements wh
ere the Company has an obligation to issue in 
a lead agent or similar capacity beyond its contractual participation level. 
          Table 50:  Tier 1 Common Equity Under Basel III (Estimated) (1) (2)
       (in billions) 
  December 31, 2012
 Tier 1 common equity under Basel I 
   $  109.0  
  Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III (3) (5): 
        Cumulative other comprehensive income related to AFS securities and defined benefit pension plans 
    5.3  
   Other 
     0.4  
  Total adjustments from Basel I to Basel III 
     5.7  
  Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III (4) (5) 
     (0.9) 
   Tier 1 common equity anticipated under Basel III 
  (C) 
$  113.8  
 Total risk-weighted assets anticipated under Basel III (6) 
  (D) 
$  1,389.2  
 Tier 1 common equity to total risk-weighted assets anticipated under Basel III 
  (C)/(D)
   8.19  
% (1) Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess
 the capital position of financial services 
companies. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and h
as included this non-GAAP financial 
information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in such information on the part 
of market participants. 
 (2) The Basel III Tier 1 common equity and risk-weighted assets are calculated based on management’s current interpretation of the 
Basel III capital rules proposed by 
federal banking agencies in notices of proposed rulemaking announced in June 2012. The proposed rules and interpretations and a
ssumptions used in estimating Basel III 
calculations are subject to change depending on final promulgations of Basel III capital rules. 
 (3) 
Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III represent reconciling adjust
ments, primarily certain components of cumulative other compr
ehensive income deducted for Basel I 
purposes, to derive Tier 1 common equity under Basel III. 
 (4) 
Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, include individual and aggregate limitations, as a percentage of Tier 1 commo
n equity, with respect to MSRs, deferred 
tax assets and investments in unconsolidated financial com
panies. 
 (5) 
Volatility in interest rates can have a significant impact on the valuation of cumulative other comprehensive income and MSRs a
nd therefore, may impact adjustments 
from Basel I to Basel III, and MSRs subject to threshold deduct
ions, as defined under Basel III, in future reporting periods. 
 (6) 
Under current Basel proposals, risk-weighted assets incorporate different classifications of assets, with certain risk weights 
based on a borrower's credit rating or Wells 
Fargo's own risk models, along with adjustments to address a combination of credit/counterparty, operational and market risks, 
and other Basel III elements. The 
amount of risk-weighted assets anticipated under Basel III is prel
iminary and subject to change depending on final promulgation
 of Basel III capital rulemaking and 
interpretations thereof by regulatory authorities. 
 92   Regulatory Reform 
 The past three years have witnessed a significant increase in 
regulation and regulatory oversight initiatives that may 

substantially change how most U.
S. financial services companies 
conduct business. The following highlights the more significant 

regulations and regulatory oversight initiatives that have 
affected or may affect our busi
ness. For additional information 
about the regulatory reform matters discussed below and other 

regulations and regulatory oversight matters, see Part I, Item 1 

“Regulation and Supervision” of
 our 2012 Form 10-K, and the 
“Capital Management,” “Forward-Looking Statements” and 

“Risk Factors” sections and No
te 26 (Regulatory and Agency 
Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

 
Dodd-Frank Act 

The Dodd-Frank Act is the most significant financial reform 

legislation since the 1930s and is
 driving much of the current 
U.S. regulatory reform efforts. The Dodd-Frank Act and many of 

its provisions became effective 
in July 2010 and July 2011. 
However, a number of its provisions still require extensive 

rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by regulatory 

authorities, and many of the rule
s that have been proposed to 
implement its requirements eith
er remain open for public 
comment or have not otherwise been finalized. Where possible, 

the Company may, from time to ti
me, estimate the impact to the 
Company’s financial results or business operations as a result of 

particular Dodd-Frank Act regulations. However, due to the 

uncertainty of pending regulations, the Company may be unable 

to make any such estimates. Acco
rdingly, in many respects the 
ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank 
Act and its effects on the U.S. 
financial system and the Company remain uncertain. The 

following provides additional 
information on the Dodd-Frank 
Act, including the current status
 of certain of its rulemaking 
initiatives. 

 
 Regulation of swaps and ot
her derivatives activities
. The 
Dodd-Frank Act establishes a comprehensive framework for 

regulating over-the-counter deri
vatives. Included in this 
framework are certain “push-out” provisions affecting U.S. 

banks acting as dealers in commodity swaps, equity swaps 

and certain credit default swaps, which will require that 

these activities be conducted through an affiliate. The 
“push-out” provision has an effective date of July 21, 2013, 
but the Dodd-Frank Act granted the OCC the discretion to 

provide a transition period of up to two years for banks to 

come into compliance wi
th the requirements. On 
January 3, 2013, the OCC issued guidance that it would 

consider transition period requests and favorably act on 

such requests subject to the requesting bank meeting 

specified requirements. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. prepared 
and filed a transition period request with the OCC on 

January 31, 2013. 
 The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Commodities 
Futures Trading Commission (C
FTC) and SEC (collectively, 
the “Commissions”) to regulate swaps and security-based 

swaps, respectively. The Commissions jointly adopted new 

rules and interpretations that established the compliance 
dates for many of the Commissions’ rules implementing the 
new regulatory framework for the regulation of swaps and 

other derivative activities, including provisional registration 

of Wells Fargo Bank as a swap dealer, which occurred at the 

end of 2012.  
 Volcker Rule. 
The Volcker Rule will substantially restrict 
banking entities from engaging
 in proprietary trading or 
owning any interest in or sponsoring a hedge fund or a 

private equity fund. In October 2011, federal banking 

agencies and the SEC issued for public comment proposed 

regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. The Volcker 

Rule became effective in Ju
ly 2012, but the proposed 
implementing regulations have not yet been finalized. 

Although the Volcker Rule is
 now effective, it provides 
banking entities with a two year period from its effective 
date to come into compliance, with the possibility of limited 
further extensions of the compli
ance period by the FRB. In 
April 2012, the FRB issued guidance confirming that 

banking entities will have the full two-year compliance 

period to conform fully their ac
tivities and investments. The 
FRB’s guidance also states that banking entities are 

expected to engage in “good-faith” planning efforts, 
appropriate for their activities and investments, to enable 

them to conform all of their activities and investments by no 

later than the end of the co
mpliance period. Although 
proprietary trading is not significant to our financial results, 

and we have reduced or exited certain businesses in 

anticipation of the effective date
 of the Volcker Rule, at this 
time and in the absence of final implementing regulations, 

the Company cannot predict th
e ultimate impact of the 
Volcker Rule on our trading and investment activities or 

financial results.  
 Changes to asset-backed securities markets. 
The Dodd-
Frank Act will generally require sponsors of asset-backed 
securities (ABS) to hold at least a 5% ownership stake in the 

ABS. Exemptions from the requirement include qualified 

residential mortgages and FHA/VA loans. Federal 

regulatory authorities proposed joint rules in 2011 to 

implement this credit risk 
retention requirement, which 
included an exemption for the GSE’s mortgage-backed 

securities. The proposed rules have been subject to 

extensive public comment, and the agencies have yet to 

issue final rules. As a result, the Company cannot predict 

the financial impact of the cred
it risk retention requirement 
on our business. 
 The Collins Amendment. 
This provision of the Dodd-Frank 
Act will phase out the benefit of issuing trust preferred 
securities by eliminating them from Tier 1 capital over three 
years beginning January 2013. For additional information 

see the “Capital Management” section of this Report. 
 Enhanced supervision and re
gulation of systemically 
significant firms
. The Dodd-Frank Act grants broad 
authority to banking regulato
rs to establish enhanced 
supervisory and regulatory requirements for systemically 

important firms. In December 2011, the FRB published 

proposed rules that would establish enhanced risk-based 
93Regulatory Reform 
(continued) 
  capital requirements and le
verage limits, liquidity 
requirements, counterparty credit exposure limits, risk 

management requirements, st
ress testing requirements, 
debt-to-equity limits, and e
arly remediation requirements 
for large BHCs like Wells Fargo. During 2012, the FRB and 

OCC issued final rules related to stress testing requirements 

for large bank holding companies (BHCs) and banks. For 

additional information, see the “Capital Management” 

section of this Report. The FRB has not issued final rules 

implementing the remaining December 2011 proposals. The 

Dodd-Frank Act also establishes the Financial Services 

Oversight Council (FSOC) and 
the Office of Financial 
Research, which may recommend new systemic risk 

management requirements an
d require new reporting of 
systemic risks.  
 Regulation of consumer financial products. 
The Dodd-
Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection 

Bureau (CFPB) to ensure consumers receive clear and 

accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to 

protect them from hidden fe
es and unfair or abusive 
practices. In January 2013, the CFPB issued eight final 

rules, which are generally effective in January 2014. The 

Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Standards Rule 
implements the Dodd-Frank Act 
requirement that creditors 
originating residential mortgage loans make a reasonable 

and good faith determination that each applicant has a 

reasonable ability to repay. The rule also establishes a 

definition of a “qualified mortgage,” which appears to 

support a broad access to cred
it for consumers coupled with 
legal protections for lenders and secondary market 

purchasers, particularly for prime Qualified Mortgage loans. 

The second major set of rules, Mortgage Servicing 

Standards under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act 

(RESPA) and the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), address a 

number of requirements, including the obligation of 

servicers to correct errors identified by borrowers, to 

provide information in response to certain borrower 

requests, and to provide protections to borrowers in case of 

force-placed insurance. Other provisions in the rules 
address policy and procedural
 requirements, information 
requirements on loss mitigation options for delinquent 

borrowers, and requirements to evaluate borrower 

applications for loss mitigation options. In addition, the 

rules establish a number of cu
stomer notice or statement 
requirements, disclosure requirements to customers 

regarding certain interest rate adjustments, and 

requirements in responding 
to customer payoff requests. 
We are currently analyzing the rules to consider the 

similarities between the rules and the national servicing 

settlement requirements that Wells Fargo has already 

implemented. Additional rules 
recently issued by the CFPB 
address loan originat
or compensation rest
rictions, high-cost 
mortgage requirements, appraisal delivery requirements, 
appraisals for higher-price
d mortgages, and escrow 
standards for higher-priced mortgages. We are currently 
analyzing the requirements of all the final rules, but at this 

time the Company cannot pred
ict the long-term impact of 
these final rules on our mortgage origination and servicing 
activities or on our financial 
results. In addition to these 
recently proposed rules, the CFPB has indicated that in the 

coming months it expects to
 release a rule integrating 
disclosures required of lenders and settlement agents under 

TILA and RESPA and to propose regulations expanding the 

scope of information lenders mu
st report in connection with 
mortgage and other housing-related loan applications. 

 In addition to these rulemaking activities, the CFPB is 

continuing its on-going examination activities with respect 
to a number of consumer businesses and products, 

including an examination of 
our mortgage origination and 
related compliance ma
nagement activities. We also expect 
the CFPB will examine our residential mortgage servicing 

activities. At this time, the 
Company cannot predict the full 
impact of the CFPB’s rulemaki
ng and supervisory authority 
on our business practices or financial results. 
 Enhanced regulation of money market mutual funds. 
In 
November 2012, the FSOC proposed new regulations to 

address the perceived risks that money market mutual 

funds may pose to the financial stability of the United 

States. These proposals include implementation of floating 

net asset value requirements, redemption holdback 

provisions, and capital buffer re
quirements and would be in 
addition to regulatory chan
ges made by the SEC to the 
market in January 2010. The proposals were subject to 

public comment. Once th
e FSOC adopts final 
recommendations, the SEC must either implement the 

recommendations or explain in writing the reasons the 

recommendations were not 
adopted. The Company will 
monitor any final recommendations and the SEC’s response 
to determine the impact to our business. In addition, 
members of the SEC have recent
ly made public statements 
indicating that the SEC is 
working on its own reform 
proposals independent of the FSOC’s rulemaking process 

and that the SEC could issue its own proposals in the 

coming months. 
 
Regulatory Capital Guidelines and Capital Plans  

In December 2010, the BCBS finalized the Basel III standards 

for determining regulatory capital. When fully phased in by 

2019, the Basel III standards will require BHCs to maintain a 

minimum ratio of Tier 1 common 
equity to risk-weighted assets 
of at least 7.0%. In November 2011, the BCBS released its final 

rule for a common equity surcharge on certain designated global 

systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The Financial Stability 
Board (FSB), in an updated list
 published in November 2012 
based on year-end 2011 data, identified the Company as one of 
the 28 G-SIBs and provisionally 
determined that our surcharge 
would be 1.0%. The FSB may revise
 the list of G-SIBs and their 
required surcharge prior to implementation based on additional 

or future data. 

 In June 2012, the federal banking regulators jointly 

published three notices of proposed rulemaking that will 

substantially amend the risk-based capital rules for banks. The 

proposed rules are intended to implement the Basel III 

regulatory capital reforms in th
e U.S., comply with changes 
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and replace the existing Basel 

I-based capital requirements
. Although the proposals 
94   contemplated an effective date of January 1, 2013, with phased 
in compliance requirements, the rules have not yet been 

finalized by the U.S. banking re
gulators due to the volume of 
comments received and concerns 
expressed during the comment 
period. These proposals did 
not address the BCBS capital 
surcharge for G-SIBs, although th
e FRB has indicated it expects 
to adopt regulations implementing the G-SIB surcharge in 2014 
and that the surcharge would be imposed on a phased-in basis 

from 2016-2019. In late 2011, the FRB finalized rules to require 

BHCs with $50 billion or more of
 consolidated assets to submit 
capital plans annually and to obtain regulatory approval before 

making capital distributions. The rule also requires a capital 
adequacy assessment under a range of expected and stress 

scenarios. For additional information, see the “Capital 

Management” section of this Report. 

 “Living Will” Requirements
  In late 2011 the FRB and the FD
IC approved final resolution-
plan regulations as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. These 
regulations will require large fi
nancial institutions, including 
Wells Fargo, to prepare and periodically revise plans that would 
facilitate their resolution in the event of material distress or 

failure. As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act, resolution 
plans are to provide for a rapid and orderly resolution – 
liquidation or orderly restructuring – under the Bankruptcy 

Code and other insolvency statutes applicable to particular types 

of regulated entities (such as 
securities broker-dealers or 
insurance companies). Under the regulations, resolution plans 

must contain detailed strategic analyses of how a distressed or 

failing institution could be resolv
ed in a way that does not pose 
systemic risks to the U.S. financial system. Under the rules, 

Wells Fargo is required to submit its resolution plan to the FRB 

and FDIC on or before July 1, 2013. 
  95   Critical Accounting Policies 
 Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of 
Significant Accounting Policies) to
 Financial Statements in this 
Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of 

operations and financial conditio
n because they require that we 
use estimates and assumptions that
 may affect the value of our 
assets or liabilities and financial results. Six of these policies are 
critical because they require ma
nagement to make difficult, 
subjective and complex judgme
nts about matters that are 
inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially 

different amounts would be report
ed under different conditions 
or using different assumptions. These policies govern:  

 the allowance for credit losses;  
 PCI loans;  
 the valuation of residential MSRs; 
 liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses;  
 the fair valuation of financial instruments; and 
 income taxes.  
 Management has reviewed and approved these critical 
accounting policies and has discussed these policies with the 

Board’s Audit and Examination Committee. 
 Allowance for Credit Losses  
The allowance for credit losses, 
which consists of the allowance 
for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit 

commitments, is management’s 
estimate of credit losses 
inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date, excluding 

loans carried at fair value. We develop and document our 
allowance methodology at the portfolio segment level. Our loan 
portfolio consists of a commercial loan portfolio segment and a 

consumer loan portfolio segment. 

 We employ a disciplined process and methodology to 

establish our allowance for credit losses. The total allowance for 

credit losses considers both im
paired and unimpaired loans. 
While our methodology attributes portions of the allowance to 

specific portfolio segments, the entire allowance for credit losses 

is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan 

portfolio and unfunded credit co
mmitments. No single statistic 
or measurement determines 
the appropriateness of the 
allowance for credit losses. 
 COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
  The allowance for credit 
losses for unimpaired commercial 
loans is estimated through the 
application of loss factors to loans based on credit risk ratings for 

each loan. In addition, the allowance for credit losses for 
unfunded commitments, including le
tters of credit, is estimated 
by applying these loss factors to
 loan equivalent exposures. The 
loss factors reflect the estimated default probability and quality 

of the underlying collateral. The loss factors used are statistically 

derived through the observation of historical losses incurred for 

loans within each credit risk ra
ting over a relevant specified 
period of time. We apply our judgment to adjust or supplement 

these loss factors and estimates to reflect other risks that may be 

identified from current conditions and developments in selected 

portfolios. These risk ratings are subject to review by an internal 

team of credit specialists. 
 The allowance also includes an
 amount for estimated credit 
losses on impaired loans such as nonaccrual loans and loans that 

have been modified in a TDR, 
whether on accrua
l or nonaccrual 
status. 
 CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT
  Loans are pooled generally 
by product type with similar risk characteristics. Losses are 

estimated using forecasted losses 
to represent our best estimate 
of inherent loss based on historical experience, quantitative and 

other mathematical techniques over the loss emergence period. 

Each business group exercises 
significant judgment in the 
determination of the credit loss 
estimation model that fits the 
credit risk characteristics of its portfolio. We use both internally 

developed and vendor supplied mode
ls in this process. We often 
use roll rate or net flow models for near-term loss projections, 

and vintage-based models, beha
vior score models, and time 
series or statistical 
trend models for longer-term projections. 
Management must use judgment in
 establishing additional input 
metrics for the modeling processes, considering further 

stratification into sub-product, 
origination channel, vintage, loss 
type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. In 

addition, we establish an allowance for consumer loans modified 

in a TDR, whether on accr
ual or nonaccrual status. 
 The models used to determine the allowance are validated by 
an independent internal model validation group operating in 

accordance with Company policies. 

 OTHER ACL MATTERS
  The allowance for credit losses for both 
portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or 

uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount 

represents management’s judgme
nt of risks inherent in the 
processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. 
This imprecision considers econ
omic environmental factors, 
modeling assumptions and perfor
mance, process risk, and other 
subjective factors, includin
g industry trends and risk 
assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government 

agencies regarding settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related 

matters. 

 Impaired loans, which predominantly include nonaccrual 

commercial loans and any loans th
at have been modified in a 
TDR have an estimated allowance calculated as the difference, if 

any, between the impaired value of the loan and the recorded 

investment in the loan. The impaired value of the loan is 

generally calculated as the present value of expected future cash 

flows from principal and interest
, which incorporates expected 
lifetime losses, discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate. 

The development of these expect
ations requires significant 
management review and judgment. The allowance for an 

unimpaired loan is based solely on principal losses without 

consideration for timing of those losses. The allowance for an 

impaired loan that was 
modified in a TDR may be lower than the 
previously established allowance 
for that loan due to benefits 
received through modification, 
such as lower probability of 
default and/or severity of loss,
 and the impact of prior charge-
offs or charge-offs at the time of the modification that may 

reduce or eliminate the need for an allowance. 
96    Commercial and consumer PCI loans may require an 
allowance subsequent to their acquisition. This allowance 

requirement is due to probable 
decreases in expected principal 
and interest cash flows (other th
an due to decreases in interest 
rate indices and changes in 
prepayment assumptions). 
 SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES
  Changes in the allowance for credit 
losses and, therefore, in the related provision for credit losses 

can materially affect net incom
e. In applying the review and 
judgment required related to 
determining the allowance for 
credit losses, mana
gement considers changes in economic 
conditions, customer behavior, and collateral value, among other 

influences. From time to time, 
economic factors or business 
decisions, such as the addition or liquidation of a loan product or 

business unit, may affect the loan
 portfolio, caus
ing management 
to provide or release amounts from the allowance for credit 

losses. 

 The allowance for credit losses for commercial loans, 

including unfunded credit co
mmitments (individually risk 
weighted) is sensitive to credit 
risk ratings assigned to each 
credit exposure. Commercial loan risk ratings are evaluated 

based on each situation by experi
enced senior credit officers and 
are subject to periodic review by an internal team of credit 

specialists. 

 The allowance for credit losses for consumer loans 

(statistically modeled) is sensit
ive to economic assumptions and 
delinquency trends. Forecasted losses are modeled using a range 

of economic scenarios. 

 Assuming a one risk rating downgrade throughout our 

commercial portfolio segment, a more pessimistic economic 
outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment 
and incremental deterioration in our PCI portfolio could imply 

an additional allowance requirement of approximately $8.0 

billion.  

 Assuming a one risk rating upgrade throughout our 

commercial portfolio segment and 
a more optimistic economic 
outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment 

could imply a reduced allowance 
requirement of approximately 
$2.4 billion. 

 The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical scenarios 

and are not considered probable. They do not represent 

management’s view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the 

balance sheet date. Because significant judgment is used, it is 

possible that others performing similar analyses could reach 

different conclusions. 

 See the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management” 

section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our 

allowance.  
 Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans  
Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their 

origination and where it is probab
le that we will not collect all 
contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI 

loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of 

acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related 

to these loans is not carried over. Such loans are considered to be 

accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not 
based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. 
Substantially all of our PCI loans 
were acquired in
 the Wachovia 
acquisition on December 31, 2008. 

 Management evaluates whether there is evidence of credit 

quality deterioration as of the 
purchase date using indicators 
such as past due an
d nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, 
recent borrower credit scores and recent loan-to-value 
percentages. 

 The fair value at acquisition is
 based on an estimate of cash 
flows, both principal and interest, expected to be collected, 

discounted at the prevailing market rate of interest. We estimate 

the cash flows expected to be c
ollected at acquisition using our 
internal credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment risk 

models, which incorporates our 
best estimate of current key 
assumptions, such as property values, default rates, loss severity 
and prepayment speeds. 
 Substantially all commercial an
d industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, Pick-
a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into 

pools based on common risk ch
aracteristics. Each pool is 
accounted for as a single asset wi
th a single composite interest 
rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. 

 The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the 

carrying value (estimated fair 
value at acquisition date) is 
referred to as the accretable yiel
d and is recognized in interest 
income using an effective yield me
thod over the remaining life of 
the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash 

flows expected to be collected. The difference between the 

contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to 

be collected at acquisition,
 considering the impact of 
prepayments, is referred to as
 the nonaccretable difference. 
 Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our 

estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. These 

evaluations, performed quarterly, require the continued usage of 

key assumptions and estimates, similar to our initial estimate of 

fair value. We must apply judgme
nt to develop our estimates of 
cash flows for PCI loans given 
the impact of home price and 
property value changes, changing
 loss severities, modification 
activity, and prepayment speeds. 

 If we have probable decreases 
in cash flows expected to be 
collected (other than due to decr
eases in interest rate indices and 
changes in prepayment assumpti
ons), we charge the provision 
for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan 

losses. If we have probable and significant increases in cash flows 

expected to be collected, we
 first reverse any previously 
established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest 
income as a prospectiv
e yield adjustment over the remaining life 
of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are impacted 

by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and 

prepayment assumptions, both
 of which are treated as 
prospective yield adjustments in
cluded in interest income. 
 The amount of cash flows expected to be collected and, 

accordingly, the appropriateness of the allowance for loan loss 

due to certain decreases in cash f
lows expected to be collected, is 
particularly sensitive to change
s in loan credit quality. The 
sensitivity of the overall allowance for credit losses, including 
97Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
  PCI loans, is presented in the preceding section, “Critical 
Accounting Policies – Allowance for Credit Losses.” 

 See the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management” 

section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to 

Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI 

loans. 

 Valuation of Residential Mo
rtgage Servicing Rights  
MSRs are assets that represent the rights to service mortgage 
loans for others. We recognize MSRs when we purchase servicing 

rights from third parties, or reta
in servicing rights in connection 
with the sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset 

transfers). We also have MSRs ac
quired in the past under co-
issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that were 

originated and securitized by 
third-party correspondents. We 
initially measure and carry our MSRs related to residential 

mortgage loans at fair value. 

 At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of 

MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value 

of estimated future net servicin
g income. The model incorporates 
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future 

net servicing income, including es
timates of prepayment speeds 
(including housing price volatility), discount rates, default rates, 

cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), 

escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, 

ancillary income 
and late fees. 
 Net servicing income, a comp
onent of mortgage banking 
noninterest income, includes the changes from period to period 

in fair value of both our reside
ntial MSRs and the free-standing 
derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge our residential 

MSRs. Changes in the fair value of residential MSRs result from 
(1) changes in the valuation model inputs or assumptions and (2) 
other changes, representing changes due to collection/realization 

of expected cash flows. Changes 
in fair value due to changes in 
significant model inputs and assumptions include prepayment 

speeds (which are influenced by changes in mortgage interest 

rates and borrower behavior, including estimates for borrower 

default), discount rates, and servicing and foreclosure costs. 

 We use a dynamic and sophisti
cated model to estimate the 
value of our MSRs. The model is validated by an internal model 

validation group operating in a
ccordance with Company policies. 
Senior management reviews all significant assumptions 

quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayme
nt speed – a key assumption 
in the model – is the annual rate at which borrowers are 

forecasted to repay their mort
gage loan principal including 
estimates for borrower default. The discount rate used to 

determine the present value of estimated future net servicing 

income – another key assumption 
in the model – is the required 
rate of return investors in the market would expect for an asset 

with similar risk. To determine the discount rate, we consider the 

risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g., 

possible changes in future servicin
g costs, ancillary income and 
earnings on escrow accounts).
 Both assumptions can, and 
generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and 

interest rates change. For example, an increase in either the 

prepayment speed or 
discount rate assumption results in a 
decrease in the fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either 

assumption would result in an in
crease in the fair value of the 
MSRs. In recent years, there have been significant market-driven 
fluctuations in loan prepayment
 speeds and the discount rate. 
These fluctuations can be rapid 
and may be significant in the 
future. Therefore, estimating prepayment speeds within a range 

that market participants would us
e in determining the fair value 
of MSRs requires significant management judgment. 

Additionally, in recent years
, we have made significant 
adjustments to the assumptions for servicing and foreclosure 

costs as a result of an increase 
in the number of defaulted loans 
as well as changes in servicing processes associated with default 

and foreclosure management. While our current valuation 

reflects our best estimate of these costs, future regulatory 

changes in servicing standards may have an impact on these 

assumptions and our MSR valuation in future periods. 

 The valuation and sensitivity of
 MSRs is discussed further in 
Note 1 (Summary of Significant 
Accounting Policies), Note 8 
(Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets 

and Liabilities) to Financial 
Statements in this Report.  
 Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 
We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) GSEs, which include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed 
mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities that issue 

private label MBS, and (3) othe
r financial institutions that 
purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label 

securitization. In addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-

guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities guaranteed by 

GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and 

the insurance or guaranty agreements with FHA and VA contain 

provisions that include various representations and warranties 

regarding the origination and characteristics of the mortgage 

loans. Although the specific representations and warranties vary 

among different sales, insurance or guarantee agreements, they 

typically cover ownership of th
e loan, compliance with loan 
criteria set forth in the applicable
 agreement, validity of the lien 
securing the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens against 

the property securing the loan, compliance with applicable 

origination laws, and other matters. For more information about 

these loan sales and the related risks that may result in liability 

see the “Risk Management – Credit
 Risk Management – Liability 
for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses” section in this Report. 

 We may be required to repurcha
se mortgage loans, indemnify 
the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 
securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 
on loans (collectively “repurchase”) in the event of a breach of 

contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied 

within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of 

the breach. Our loan sale contra
cts to private investors (non-
GSE) typically contain an additional provision where we would 

only be required to repurchase
 loans if any such breach is 
deemed to have a material and adverse effect on the value of the 

mortgage loan or to the interests of the investors or interests of 

security holders in the mortgage 
loan. The time periods specified 
in our mortgage loan sales contracts to respond to repurchase 

requests vary, but are generally 90 days or less. While many 

contracts do not include specific 
remedies if the applicable time 
period for a response is not met, contracts for mortgage loan 
98   sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and 
penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to 

repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements under which we 

sell mortgage loans require us 
to deliver various documents to 
the securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to 

repurchase any mortgage loan for which the required documents 

are not delivered or are defective. In addition, as part of our 

representations and warranties in our loan sales contracts, we 

typically represent to GSEs and private investors that certain 

loans have mortgage insurance to the extent there are loans that 

have loan to value ratios in excess of 80% that require mortgage 

insurance. To the extent the mortga
ge insurance is rescinded by 
the mortgage insurer due to a cl
aim of breach of a contractual 
representation or warranty, the lack of insurance may result in a 

repurchase demand from an investor. Upon receipt of a 

repurchase request or a mortgage insurance rescission, we work 

with securitization trusts, investors or insurers to arrive at a 

mutually agreeable resolution. Repurchase demands are typically 

reviewed on an individual loan by loan basis to validate the 

claims made by the securitization 
trust, investor or insurer, and 
to determine whether a contractually required repurchase event 

occurred. Occasionally, in lieu of conducting a loan level 

evaluation, we may negotiate global settlements in order to 
resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. 
We manage the risk associated with potential repurchases or 

other forms of settlement through our underwriting and quality 

assurance practices and by serv
icing mortgage loans to meet 
investor and secondary market standards. 
We establish mortgage repurcha
se liabilities related to 
various representations and warranties that reflect 

management’s estimate of losse
s for loans for which we could 
have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service 

those loans, based on a combinat
ion of factors.
 Such factors 
include default expectations, expected investor repurchase 

demands (influenced by current an
d expected mortgage loan file 
requests and mortgage insurance 
rescission notices, as well as 
estimated demand to default and 
file request relationships) and 
appeals success rates (where the investor rescinds the demand 

based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan 

satisfies the investor’s applicable representations and 

warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third 

party originators, and projected loss severity. We establish a 

liability at the time loans are sold and continually update our 

liability estimate during the 
remaining life of such loans. 
Although activity can vary by investor, investors may demand 

repurchase at any time and there is often a lag from the date of 

default to the time we receive a 
repurchase demand. This lag has 
lengthened as some investor audit reviews, particularly by the 

GSEs, have changed to reopen or
 expand reviews on previously 
defaulted populations. Accordingl
y, the majority of repurchase 
demands continue to be on loans th
at default in the first 24 to 36 
months following origination of the mortgage loan. The most 

significant portion of our repurchases under our representation 
and warranty provisions are attributable to borrower 
misrepresentations and appraisals obtained at origination that 

investors believe do not fully comply with applicable industry 

standards.
  To date, repurchase demands from private label MBS have 

been more limited than GSE-guaranteed securities; however, it is 

possible that requests to repurchase mortgage loans in private 

label securitizations may increase in frequency as investors 

explore every possible avenue to recover losses on their 

securities. We evaluate the validi
ty and materiality of any claim 
of breach of representations and warranties in private label MBS 

that is brought to our attention and work with securitization 

trustees to resolve any repurchase requests. Nevertheless, we 

may be subject to legal and ot
her expenses if private label 
securitization trustees or inve
stors choose to commence legal 
proceedings in the event of disagreements. 

 The mortgage loan repurchase liability at December 31, 2012, 

represents our best estimate of the probable loss that we may 

incur for various representations and warranties in the 

contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because 

the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses are dependent on 

economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external 

conditions that may change over 
the life of the underlying loans, 
the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requ
ires considerable management 
judgment. We maintain regular co
ntact with the GSEs and other 
significant investors to monitor and address their repurchase 
demand practices and concerns. 
For additional information on 
our repurchase liability, including an adverse impact analysis, 

see the “Risk Management – Credit Risk Management – Liability 

for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses” section and Note 9 

(Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments 

to certain financial instruments and to determine fair value 

disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale, 

derivatives, substantially all residential MHFS, certain loans held 

for investment, securities sold bu
t not yet purchased (short sale 
liabilities) and certain long-ter
m debt instruments are recorded 
at fair value on a recurring basis.
 Additionally, from time to time, 
we may be required to record at
 fair value other assets on a 
nonrecurring basis, such as certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held 

for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair 

value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-

or-market accounting 
or write-downs of individual assets. 
Additionally, for certain financial instruments not recorded at 

fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value. 

 Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell 

the financial asset or paid to tran
sfer the financial liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants at the 

measurement date. 

 The accounting provisions 
for fair value measurements 
include a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of assets and 
liabilities recorded at fair value. 
The classification of assets and 
liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to 

the valuation methodology used for measurement are observable 

or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or 
market-based information obtained from independent sources, 

while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about market 

data.  99Critical Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
   Level 1 – Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical 
instruments traded in active markets. Level 1 instruments 

include securities traded on ac
tive exchange markets, such 
as the New York Stock Exchange, as well as U.S. Treasury 

and other U.S. government securities that are traded by 

dealers or brokers in active OTC markets.  
 Level 2 – Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar
 instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or 

similar instruments in markets that are not active, and 

model-based valuation techniques
, such as matrix pricing, 
for which all significant assumptions are observable in the 

market. Level 2 instruments in
clude securities traded in 
functioning dealer or broker markets, plain-vanilla interest 

rate derivatives and MHFS that are valued based on prices 

for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics.  
 Level 3 – Valuation is generated
 primarily from techniques 
that use significant assumptions not observable in the 

market. These unobservable assumptions reflect our own 

estimates of assumptions market participants would use in 

pricing the asset or liability.
 Valuation techniques include 
use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models 

and similar techniques. 
  When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the 
use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable 

inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to 

measure fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not 

available, fair value measurement 
is based upon models that use 
primarily market-based or in
dependently sourced market 
parameters, including interest rate yield curves, prepayment 

speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in 

certain cases, when 
market observable inputs for model-based 
valuation techniques are not readily available, we are required to 

make judgments about assumptions market participants would 

use to estimate fair value. 

 The degree of management
 judgment involved in 
determining the fair value of a fi
nancial instrument is dependent 
upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or 

observable market parameters. For financial instruments with 

quoted market prices or observable market parameters in active 

markets, there is minimal subjecti
vity involved in measuring fair 
value. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets 

are not fully available, manageme
nt judgment is necessary to 
estimate fair value. Changes in the market conditions, such as 

reduced liquidity in the capital 
markets or changes in secondary 
market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of 

quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. 

When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or 

inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based 

primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active market for a 

financial instrument does not exist, the use of management 

estimates that incorporate current market participant 

expectations of future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate 
risk premium, is acceptable. 
 When markets for our financial assets and liabilities become 

inactive because the level and volume of activity has declined 

significantly relative to normal 
conditions, it may be appropriate 
to adjust quoted prices. The methodology we use to adjust the 
quoted prices generally involves 
weighting the quoted prices and 
results of internal pricing techniques, such as the net present 

value of future expected cash flows (with observable inputs, 

where available) discounted at a rate of return market 

participants require to arrive at the fair value. The more active 

and orderly markets for particular security classes are 

determined to be, the more weight
ing we assign to quoted prices. 
The less active and orderly markets are determined to be, the less 

weighting we assign to quoted prices. 

 We may use third party pric
ing services and brokers 
(collectively, “pricing vendors”) to obtain fair values (“vendor 

prices”) which are used to either record the price of an 

instrument or to corroborate internally developed prices. We 

have processes in place to approve such vendors to ensure 

information obtained and valu
ation techniques used are 
appropriate. Once these vendors are
 approved to provide pricing 
information, we monitor and review the results to ensure the fair 

values are reasonable and in line with market experience with 

similar asset classes. For certain securities, we may use internal 

traders to price instruments. Where vendor prices are utilized for 

recording the price of an inst
rument, we determine the most 
appropriate and relevant pricing vendor for each security class 

and obtain a price from that particular pricing vendor for each 

security. 

 Determination of the fair valu
e of financial instruments using 
either vendor prices or internally developed prices are subject to 

our internal price validation procedures, which include, but are 

not limited to
, one or a combination of the following procedures: 
 comparison to pricing vendors 
(for internally developed 
prices) or to other pricing vendors (for vendor developed 

prices); 
  variance analysis of prices; 
  corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent 
market data such as secondary
 broker quotes and relevant 
benchmark indices; 
  review of pricing by Company personnel familiar with 
market liquidity and other ma
rket-related conditions; and
  investigation of prices on a specific instrument-by-
instrument basis.
  For instruments where we utilize vendor prices to record the 

price of an instrument, we perf
orm additional procedures. We 
evaluate pricing vendors by compari
ng prices from one vendor to 
prices of other vendors for identical or similar instruments and 

evaluate the consistency of prices
 to known market transactions 
when determining the level of reliance to be placed on a 

particular pricing vendor. Methodologies employed and inputs 

used by third party pricing vend
ors are subject to additional 
review when such services are provided. This review may consist 
of, in part, obtaining and evaluating control reports issued and 

pricing methodology materials distributed. 

 Significant judgment is re
quired to determine whether 
certain assets measured at fair value are included in Level 2 or 

Level 3. When making this ju
dgment, we consider available 
information, including observable
 market data, indications of 
market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the 

valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities 

in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to 

evaluate the impact of fair 
value adjustments derived from 
100   weighting both external and internal indications of value to 
determine if the instrument is cl
assified as Level 2 or Level 3. 
Otherwise, the classification of Le
vel 2 or Level 3 is based upon 
the specific facts and circumst
ances of each instrument or 
instrument category and judg
ments are made regarding the 
significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments’ fair value 

measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered 

significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. 

 Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements 

consist of certain collateraliz
ed debt obligations (CDOs), 
collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), asset-backed securities, 
including those collateralized by auto leases or loans, cash 

reserves, and other asset-backed securities, auction-rate 
securities, certain derivative contracts such as credit default 

swaps related to collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO), CDO 

and CLO exposures and certain MHFS, certain loans, and MSRs. 

For additional information on how we value MSRs refer to the 

discussion earlier in this section. 

 Table 51 presents the summary of the fair value of financial 

instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and the 

amounts measured using significant Level 3 inputs (before 

derivative netting adjustments). The fair value of the remaining 

assets and liabilities were measured using valuation 
methodologies involving mark
et-based or market-derived 
information (collectively Le
vel 1 and 2 measurements). 
 Table 51:  Fair Value Level 3 Summary
    December 31, 2012
 December 31, 2011
     Total 
  Total
 ($ in billions) 
balance
 Level 3 (1)
 balance
 Level 3 (1) 
Assets carried 
          at fair value 
$  358.7  
   51.9 
  373.0 
   53.3 
As a percentage 
          of total assets 
  25  
 %  4 
  28 
   4 
            Liabilities carried 
          at fair value 
$  22.4  
   3.1 
  26.4 
   4.6 
As a percentage of 
          total liabilities 
  2  
 % *  2 
  * * Less than 1%. 
  (1) Before derivative netting adjustments. 
              See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial 
Statements in this Re
port for a complete discussion on our fair 
valuation of financial instruments, our related measurement 

techniques and the impact to our financial statements. 
 Income Taxes  
We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and 

municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we 

operate. Our income tax expense 
consists of current and deferred 
income tax expense. Current inco
me tax expense represents our 
estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and 

includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax 

positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the balance 

sheet method. Under this method
, the net deferred tax asset or 
liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the 

book and tax bases of assets an
d liabilities, and recognizes 
enacted changes in tax rates and la
ws in the period in which they 
occur. Deferred income tax expe
nse results from changes in 
deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. Deferred tax 

assets are recognized subject to
 management’s judgment that 
realization is “more likely than not.” Uncertain tax positions that 

meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are 

measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An 
uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of 

benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% 

likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not 

meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax 

benefits. Our unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax 

positions are reflected in Note 
21 (Income Taxes) to Financial 
Statements in this Report. Foreign taxes paid are generally 
applied as credits to reduce fe
deral income taxe
s payable. We 
account for interest and penaltie
s as a component of income tax 
expense. 
The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which 
we operate are complex and subject to different interpretations 
by the taxpayer and the relevant 
government taxing authorities. 
In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must 

make judgments and interpretations about the application of 

these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates 

about when in the future certain 
items will affect taxable income 
in the various tax jurisdictions by the government taxing 

authorities, both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may 

be subjected to review during ex
amination by taxing authorities 
and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions. We 

attempt to resolve these disputes
 during the tax examination and 
audit process and ultimately through the court systems when 

applicable. 
We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of 
accrued income taxes due to ch
anges in income tax laws and 
their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities on a 

quarterly basis. Revisions of ou
r estimate of accrued income 
taxes also may result from our own income tax planning and 

from the resolution of income ta
x controversies. Such revisions 
in our estimates may be material to our operating results for any 

given quarter. 
See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this 
Report for a further description of our provision for income taxes 

and related income tax as
sets and liabilities. 
101   Current Accounting Developments 
 The following accounting pronouncements have been issued by 
the FASB but are not yet effective: 

 Accounting Standards Update
 (ASU or Update) 2011-11, 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities;
  ASU 2013-01, Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about 
Offsetting Assets and Liabilities; 
and 
 ASU 2013-02, 
Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
.  ASU 2011-11 
expands the disclosure requirements for certain 
financial instruments and derivatives that are subject to 

enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements. 

The disclosures are required regardless of whether the 

instruments have been offset (or netted) in the statement of 
financial position. Under ASU 2011-11, companies must describe 
the nature of offsetting arrangements and provide quantitative 

information about those agreements, including the gross and net 

amounts of financial instruments that are recognized in the 

statement of financial position. In January 2013, the FASB 

issued ASU 2013-01
, which clarifies the scope of ASU 2011-11 
by limiting the disclosures to derivatives, repurchase 

agreements, and securities lendin
g transactions to the extent 
they are subject to an enforceable master netting or similar 

arrangement. These changes are effective for us in first quarter 

2013 with retrospective applicatio
n. The Updates will not affect 
our consolidated financial results since they amend only the 

disclosure requirements for offsetting financial instruments. 

 ASU 2013-02 
requires companies to disc
lose the effect on net 
income line items from significant amounts reclassified out of 

accumulated other comprehensive 
income and entirely into net 
income. However, for those reclassifications that are partially or 
entirely capitalized on the bala
nce sheet, then companies must 
provide a cross-reference to disclosures that provide information 
about the effect of the reclassifica
tions. This guidance is effective 
for us in Q1 2013 with prospective application. The Update will 

not affect our consolidated financia
l results as it amends only the 
disclosure requirements for accumulated other comprehensive 

income. 
102   Forward-Looking Statements 
 This Report contains “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as 
“anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “believes,” “estimates,” 

“expects,” “target,” “projects,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “will,” 
“may,” “could,” “should,” “can” and similar references to future 
periods. Examples of forward-looking statements in this Report 
include, but are not limited to, statements we make about: (i) 

future results of the Company, in
cluding the potential effect of 
recent strong loan and deposi
t growth on future financial 
performance; (ii) our targeted efficiency ratio range as part of 

our expense management initiative
s; (iii) future credit quality 
and expectations regarding future loan losses in our loan 

portfolios and life-of-loan estimates; our foreign loan exposure; 
the level and loss content of 
NPAs and nonaccrual loans; the 
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, including our 

current expectation of future allowance releases in 2013; and the 

reduction or mitigation of risk 
in our loan portfolios and the 
effects of loan modification prog
rams; (iv) future capital levels 
and our estimate regarding our Tier 1 common equity ratio under 

proposed Basel III capital standards as of December 31, 2012; (v) 

the quality of our residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio, 

our mortgage repurchase exposure and exposure relating to our 

mortgage foreclosure practices; (vi) our expectations regarding 

the satisfaction of our obligations under our settlement in 

principle with the Department of
 Justice and other federal and 
state government entities related to our mortgage servicing and 

foreclosure practices, including 
our estimates of the impact of 
the settlement on our future financial results; (vii) the expected 

outcome and impact of legal, regulatory and legislative 

developments, including the Dodd-Frank Act; and (viii) the 

Company’s plans, objectives and 
strategies, including our belief 
that we have more 
opportunity to increase cross-sell of our 
products. 
Forward-looking statements are based on our current 
expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the 

economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking 

statements relate to the future
, they are subject to inherent 
uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are 

difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from 

those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. We 
caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward-
looking statements. They are neithe
r statements of historical fact 
nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there 

is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk 

factors is complete, important fa
ctors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking 

statements include the following, without limitation: 

 current and future economic and market conditions, 
including the effects of declines in housing prices, high 

unemployment rates, U. S. fi
scal debt, budget and tax 
matters, the sovereign debt cris
is and economic difficulties 
in Europe, and the overall slowdown in global economic 

growth;  
 our capital and liquidity requ
irements (including under 
regulatory capital standards, such as the proposed Basel III 
capital standards, as determined and interpreted by 
applicable regulatory authorities) and our ability to generate 

capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; 
 financial services reform and other current, pending or 
future legislation or regulation that could have a negative 

effect on our revenue and businesses, including the Dodd-

Frank Act and other legislation and regulation relating to 

bank products and services, as well as the extent of our 

ability to mitigate the loss of revenue and income from 

financial services reform and other legislation and 

regulation; 
 the extent of our success in ou
r loan modification efforts, as 
well as the effects of regulatory requirements or guidance 

regarding loan modifications or changes in such 

requirements or guidance; 
 the amount of mortgage loan 
repurchase demands that we 
receive and our ability to sati
sfy any such demands without 
having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise 

indemnify or reimburs
e third parties, and 
the credit quality 
of or losses on such repurchased mortgage loans; 
 negative effects relating to our mortgage servicing and 
foreclosure practices, including our ability to meet our 

obligations under the settlem
ent in principle with the 
Department of Justice and other federal and state 

government entities, as well as changes in our procedures or 

practices and/or industry standards or practices, regulatory 

or judicial requirements, pe
nalties or fines, increased 
servicing and other costs or obligations, including loan 

modification requirements, or
 delays or moratoriums on 
foreclosures; 
 our ability to realize our efficiency ratio target as part of our 
expense management initiatives when and in the range 

targeted, including as a result of business and economic 

cyclicality, seasonality, changes in our business composition 

and operating environment, growth in our businesses 

and/or acquisitions, and unexpected expenses relating to, 

among other things, litigation and regulatory matters; 
 losses relating to Super Storm Sa
ndy, including the result of 
damage or loss to our collateral for loans in our consumer 

and commercial loan portfolios, the extent of insurance 

coverage, or the level of government assistance for our 

borrowers;  
 the effect of the current low interest rate environment or 
changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our 

mortgage originations, MSRs and MHFS;  
 hedging gains or losses; 
 a recurrence of significant turbulence or disruption in the 
capital or financial markets, 
which could result in, among 
other things, reduced investor 
demand for mortgage loans, a 
reduction in the availability of funding or increased funding 

costs, and declines in asset 
values and/or recognition of 
OTTI on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio 

due to volatility or changes in interest rates, foreign 

exchange rates and/or debt, 
equity and commodity prices; 
 our ability to sell more products to our existing customers 
through our cross-selling efforts;  
103Forward-Looking Statements 
(continued) 
   the effect of a fall in stock m
arket prices on our investment 
banking business and our fee income from our brokerage, 

asset and wealth management businesses;  
 changes in the value of our venture capital investments;  
 changes in our accounting po
licies or in accounting 
standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied 

or interpreted;  
 mergers, acquisitions
 and divestitures; 
 changes in the Company’s credit
 ratings and changes in the 
credit quality of the Company’s 
customers or counterparties;  
 reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, 
penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory 

violations and legal actions;  
 a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems 
or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and 

other service providers, including as a result of cyber 

attacks; 
 the loss of checking and savings account deposits to other 
investments such as the stock market, and the resulting 
increase in our funding costs an
d impact on our net interest 
margin;  
 fiscal and monetary poli
cies of the FRB; and 
 the other risk factors and un
certainties described under 
“Risk Factors” in this Report.  
 In addition to the above factors,
 we also caution that there is 
no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be 

appropriate to cover future credit
 losses, especially if housing 
prices decline and unemployment worsens. Increases in loan 

charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related 

provision expense could materially
 adversely affect our financial 
results and condition. 

 Any forward-looking statement 
made by us in this Report 
speaks only as of the date on wh
ich it is made. Factors or events 
that could cause our actual resu
lts to differ may emerge from 
time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. 

We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-

looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future 

developments or otherwise, except 
as may be required by law. 
 Risk Factors  An investment in the Company 
involves risk, including the 
possibility that the value of the investment could fall 

substantially and that dividends 
or other distributions on the 
investment could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below 

risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and 

condition, and the value of, and re
turn on, an investment in the 
Company.  
 RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMY, FINANCIAL MARKETS, INTEREST 
RATES AND LIQUIDITY
  As one of the largest lenders in the U.S. and a provider 
of financial products and services to consumers and 

businesses across the U.S. and internationally, our 

financial results have been, and will continue to be, 

materially
 affected by general economic conditions, 
particularly unemployment levels and home prices in 

the U.S., and a deterioration in economic conditions or 

in the financial markets may materially adversely affect 

our lending and other businesses and our financial 

results and condition.
 We generate revenue from the interest 
and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services 

we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings 

comes from the net interest income
 and fee income that we earn 
from our consumer and commercial lending and banking 

businesses, including our mortgage banking business where we 

currently are the largest mortgage originator in the U.S. These 

businesses have been, and will contin
ue to be, materially affected 
by the state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment 

levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has 

continued to gradually improve from the depressed levels of 

2008 and early 2009, economic
 growth has been slow and 
uneven. In addition, the negative effects and continued 

uncertainty stemming from th
e sovereign debt crisis and 
economic difficulties in Europe, 
the slowdown in growth in Asia 
and certain other emerging growth markets, and U. S. fiscal and 
political matters, including concerns about deficit levels, taxes 
and U.S. debt ratings, 
have impacted and may 
continue to impact 
the continuing global economic recovery. A prolonged period of 

slow growth in the global economy, particularly in the U.S., or 

any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the 

financial markets resulting from the above matters or any other 

events or factors that may di
srupt or dampen the global 
economic recovery
, could materially adversely affect our 
financial
 results and condition. 
 Despite the improved U.S. economy the housing market 

continues a slow recovery, the unemployment rate remains high 

and nonperforming asset levels, which have adversely affected 

our credit performance, financia
l results and condition remain 
higher than normal. If unemployment levels worsen or if home 

prices fall we would expect to
 incur elevated charge-offs and 
provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit 

losses. These conditions may adve
rsely affect not only consumer 
loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially 

for those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries 

that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. The 

ability of these and other borrowers to repay their loans may 

deteriorate, causing us, as one of
 the largest commercial lenders 
and the largest CRE lender in th
e U.S., to incur significantly 
higher credit losses. In addition
, weak or deteriorating economic 
conditions make it more challe
nging for us to increase our 
consumer and commerci
al loan portfolios by making loans to 
creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. Although we have 

significant capacity to add loa
ns to our balance sheet, loan 
demand, especially consumer 
loan demand, has been soft 
resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower 

yielding liquid assets on our balance sheet. If economic 

conditions do not continue to im
prove or if the economy worsens 
and unemployment rises, which al
so would likely result in a 
decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending, the 
104   demand for our credit products
, including our mortgages, may 
fall, reducing our interest and noninterest income and our 
earnings. 

 A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which 

may erode consumer and investor
 confidence levels, and/or 
increased volatility of financia
l markets, also could adversely 
affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including 
our investment advisory, mutual fund, securities brokerage, 
wealth management, and investment banking businesses.
 As of 
December 31, 2012, approximately 22% of our revenue was fee 

income, which included trust and 
investment fees, card fees and 
other fees. We earn fee income from managing assets for others 

and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and 

wealth management services. Be
cause investment management 
fees are often based on the valu
e of assets under management, a 
fall in the market prices of th
ose assets could reduce our fee 
income. Changes in stock market 
prices could affect the trading 
activity of investors, reducing
 commissions and other fees we 
earn from our brokerage business. Poor economic conditions and 

volatile or unstable financial markets also can negatively affect 

our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses, as 

well as our trading and venture capital businesses. Any 

deterioration in global financial markets and economies, 
including as a result of Europe’s
 sovereign debt crisis or any 
international political unrest or disturbances, may adversely 

affect the revenues and earnings of our international operations, 

particularly our global financial institution and correspondent 

banking services. 

 For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 

Asset/Liability Management” and “– Credit Risk Management” 

sections in this Report. 

 
Changes in interest rates and financial market values 

could reduce our net interest income and earnings, 

including as a result of recognizing losses or OTTI on 

the securities that we hold in our portfolio or trade for 

our customers. 
Our net interest income is the interest we earn 
on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the 

interest we pay on our deposits
, long-term and short-term debt, 
and other liabilities. Net interest 
income is a measure of both our 
net interest margin – the differen
ce between the yield we earn on 
our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other 

sources of funding – and the amount of earning assets we hold. 

Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount or mix 

of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income 

and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can affect our net 

interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and 

our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response 

to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the 

other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our 

liabilities tend to be shorter in 
duration than our assets, so they 
may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. When 

interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the 
yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to 
contract until the asset yield increases. 

 The amount and type of earning 
assets we hold can affect our 
yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form 

of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted 
above, if the economy worsens we may see lower demand for 
loans by creditworthy
 customers, reducing our net interest 
income and yield. In addition, 
our net interest income and net 
interest margin can be negative
ly affected by a prolonged low 
interest rate environment, which as noted below is currently 

being experienced as a result of
 economic conditions and FRB 
monetary policies, as it may result
 in us holding short-term lower 
yielding loans and securities on our balance sheet, particularly if 

we are unable to replace the maturing higher yielding assets, 

including the loans in our non-strategic and liquidating loan 

portfolio, with similar higher 
yielding assets. Increases in 
interest rates, however, may nega
tively affect loan demand and 
could result in higher credit lo
sses as borrowers may have more 
difficulty making higher interest
 payments. As described below, 
changes in interest rates also affect our mortgage business, 

including the value of our MSRs. 

 Changes in the slope of the “yield curve” – or the spread 

between short-term and long-ter
m interest rates – could also 
reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is 

upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-

term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration 

than our assets, when the yield curve flattens, as is the case in the 

current interest rate environment, or even inverts, our net 

interest margin could decrease 
as our cost of funds increases 
relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. 

 The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to U.S.-

denominated interest rates such as the federal funds rate while 

the interest we pay on our debt
 may be based on international 
rates such as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without 

a corresponding decrease in LIBO
R, we might earn less on our 
loans without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This 
could lower our net interest marg
in and our net interest income. 
 We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on 

our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on 

assumptions about the directio
n, magnitude and speed of 
interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge 

some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We 

also rely on the “natural hedge” that our mortgage loan 

originations and servicing rights can provide. 
 We generally do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There 

is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our 

net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, 

especially if actual conditions tu
rn out to be materially different 
than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall 

faster than we assumed or the s
lope of the yield curve changes, 
we may incur significant losses on
 debt securities we hold as 
investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance 

our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take 

other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such 

actions. 

 We hold securities in our available-for-sale portfolio, 
including U.S. Treasury and federa
l agency securities and federal 
agency MBS, securities of U.S. 
states and political subdivisions, 
residential and commercial MBS, 
corporate debt securities, and 
marketable equity securities, including securities relating to our 

venture capital activities. We analyze securities held in our 

available-for-sale portfolio for OTTI on at least a quarterly basis. 

The process for determining whet
her impairment is other than 
105Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about 
the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral 

underlying the security in order to assess the probability of 

receiving contractual principal and interest payments on the 

security. Because of changing ec
onomic and market conditions, 
as well as credit ratings, affecting issuers and the performance of 

the underlying collateral, we may be required to recognize OTTI 

in future periods. Our net income
 also is exposed to changes in 
interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and 

commodity prices in connection
 with our trading activities, 
which are conducted primarily to
 accommodate our customers in 
the management of their market price risk, as well as when we 

take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from 

differences between financial 
instruments and markets. The 
securities held in these activities are carried at fair value with 

realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest 

income. As part of our business to support our customers, we 

trade public securities and these securities also are subject to 

market fluctuations with gain
s and losses recognized in net 
income when realized
 and periodically include OTTI charges. 
Although we have processes in 
place to measure and monitor the 
risks associated with our trading activities, including stress 

testing and hedging strategies, th
ere can be no assurance that 
our processes and strategies will be effective in avoiding losses 
that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 

 The value of our public and private equity investments can 

fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Certain of these investments 

are carried under the cost or equity method, while others are 

carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in 

earnings. Earnings from our equi
ty investments may be volatile 
and hard to predict, and may ha
ve a significant effect on our 
earnings from period to period. When, and if, we recognize gains 

may depend on a number of factors, including general economic 

and market conditions, the prospe
cts of the companies in which 
we invest, when a company goes public, the size of our position 

relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any 

resale restrictions. 

 Our venture capital investment
s could result in significant 
OTTI losses for those investments carried under the cost or 

equity method. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of 

factors, including the then current market value of each 

investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine 

there is OTTI for an investment, we write-down the carrying 

value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The 

amount of this charge could be significant. 

 For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 

Asset/Liability Management – Interest Rate Risk”, “– Market 

Risk – Equity Markets”, and “– Market Risk – Trading 

Activities” and the “Balance Sheet Analysis – Securities Available 

for Sale” sections in 
this Report and Note 5 (Securities Available 
for Sale) to Financial Stat
ements in this Report. 
 Effective liquidity management, which ensures that we 
can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit 

maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments, 

including principal and interest payments on our debt, 

efficiently under both normal operating conditions and 

other unpredictable circumstances of industry or 

financial market stress, is essential for the operation of 

our business, and our financial results and condition 

could be materially adversely affected if we do not 

effectively manage our liquidity. 
Our liquidity is essential 
for the operation of our business. We primarily rely on bank 

deposits to be a low cost and st
able source of funding for the 
loans we make and the operation 
of our business. Core customer 
deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-

bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and 

other savings, and certain foreign deposits, have historically 

provided us with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-

cost funds. In addition to cu
stomer deposits, our sources of 
liquidity include
 investments in our securities portfolio, our 
ability to sell or securitize loa
ns in secondary markets and to 
pledge loans to access secured bo
rrowing facilities through the 
FHLB and the FRB, and our abilit
y to raise funds in domestic 
and international money and capital markets. 

 Our liquidity and our ability to fund and run our business 

could be materially adversely affe
cted by a variety of conditions 
and factors, including financial an
d credit market disruption and 
volatility or a lack of market or
 customer confidence in financial 
markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial 

crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of 
customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or our 

inability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Market 
disruption and volatility could im
pact our credit spreads, which 
are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury 

securities, or other benchmark se
curities, of the same maturity 
that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in 

interest rates and our credit spreads could significantly increase 

our funding costs. Other condit
ions and factors that could 
materially adversely affect our liquidity and funding include a 

lack of market or 
customer confidence in the Company or 
negative news about the Company or the financial services 
industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits 

and/or negatively affect our abilit
y to access the capital markets; 
our inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and, as 

described below, reductions in one 
or more of our credit ratings. 
Many of the above conditions 
and factors may be caused by 
events over which we have little or no control. While market 

conditions have continued to im
prove since the fi
nancial crisis, 
there can be no assurance that
 significant disruption and 
volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. For 

example, in the summer of 2011 concerns regarding the potential 

failure to raise the U.S. governme
nt debt limit and the eventual 
downgrade of U.S. government de
bt ratings and the so called 
“fiscal cliff” concerns in the seco
nd half of 2012 associated with 
the possibility of U.S. spending 
cuts and tax increases, which 
were scheduled to go into effe
ct on January 1, 2013, caused 
uncertainty and some volatility in
 financial markets. A failure to 
raise the U.S. debt limit in 
the future and/or additional 
downgrades of the sovereign debt 
ratings of the U.S. government 
106   or the debt ratings of relate
d institutions, agencies or 
instrumentalities, as well as other 
fiscal or political events could, 
in addition to causing econ
omic and financial market 
disruptions, materially adversely 
affect the market value of the 
U.S. government securities that 
we hold, the availability of those 
securities as collateral for borrowing, and our ability to access 

capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other 

material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our 

financial results and condition. 

 As noted above, we rely heavily on bank deposits for our 

funding and liquidity. We compete with banks and other 

financial services companies fo
r deposits. If our competitors 
raise the rates they pay on deposits our funding costs may 

increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing 

deposits or because we lose de
posits and must rely on more 
expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our 

net interest margin and net interest income. Checking and 

savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits 

may decrease when cu
stomers perceive alternative investments, 
such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return 

tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and 

into other investments, we may los
e a relatively low cost source 
of funds, increasing our fundin
g costs and negatively affecting 
our liquidity. 
 If we are unable to continue to fund our assets through 
customer bank deposits or
 access capital markets on favorable 
terms or if we suffer an increase in our borrowing costs or 
otherwise fail to manage our liqu
idity effectively, our liquidity, 
net interest margin, financial results and condition may be 

materially adversely affected. As
 we did during the financial 
crisis, we may also need, or be
 required by our regulators, to
 raise
 additional capital through th
e issuance of common stock, 
which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or 

reduce or even eliminate our co
mmon stock dividend to preserve 
capital or in order to raise additional capital
.   
 For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 

Asset/Liability Management” 
section in this Report.  
 Adverse changes in our credit ratings could have a 

material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, 

financial results and condition.
 Our borrowing costs and 
ability to obtain funding are in
fluenced by our credit ratings. 
Reductions in one or more of ou
r credit ratings could adversely 
affect our ability to borrow funds and raise the costs of our 

borrowings substantially and coul
d cause creditors and business 
counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other 

actions that could adversely affect our ability to raise funding. 

Credit ratings and credit ratings agencies’ outlooks are based on 

the ratings agencies’ analysis of many quantitative and 

qualitative factors, such as our capital adequacy, the level and 

quality of our earnings, rating agency assumptions regarding the 

probability and extent of federal 
financial assistance or support, 
and other rating agency specific cr
iteria. In addition to credit 
ratings, our borrowing costs are affected by various other 
external factors, including mar
ket volatility an
d concerns or 
perceptions about the financial services industry generally. 

 On June 1, 2012, DBRS confirmed both the Parent’s and 
Wells Fargo Bank’s long-term 
and short-term debt ratings, 
including the stable trend. On June 22, 2012, Moody’s affirmed 
both the Parent’s and Wells Fargo Bank’s long-term and short-

term debt ratings and changed the outlook on Wells Fargo Bank 

to stable from negative while affirming the negative outlook for 

the Parent. The different outlooks reflect Moody’s view on the 

likely regulatory approach to the resolution of large financial 

institutions, specifically the contrasting likelihood of support for 

creditors of holding companie
s as compared to support for 
creditors of banks. On September 12, 2012, S&P affirmed both 

the Parent's and Wells Fargo Bank’s long-term and short-term 

debt ratings, including the ne
gative outlook, which outlook 
reflects S&P’s outlook on the U.S. sovereign ratings and the one 

notch of support factored into our ratings. On October 30, 2012, 

Fitch Ratings affirmed both the Parent’s and Wells Fargo Bank’s 

long-term and short-term debt ratings and maintained a stable 

outlook on those ratings. There can be no assurance, however, 
that we will maintain our credit
 ratings and outlooks and that 
credit ratings downg
rades in the future would not materially 
affect our ability to borrow funds and borrowing costs. 
 Downgrades in our credit ratings also may trigger additional 
collateral or funding obligations which could negatively affect 

our liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent 

features in certain of our derivative contracts. Although a one or 

two notch downgrade in our current credit ratings would not be 

expected to trigger a material increase in our collateral or 

funding obligations, a more severe credit rating downgrade of 

our long-term and short-term cred
it ratings could increase our 
collateral or funding obligations and the effect on our liquidity 

could be material. For information regarding additional 

collateral and funding obligations required of certain derivative 

instruments in the event our cred
it ratings were to fall below 
investment grade, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial 

Statements in this Report.
  We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for 

liquidity, and federal and state law can limit those 

dividends.
 Wells Fargo & Company, the parent holding 
company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from its 

subsidiaries. It receives a signif
icant portion of its funding and 
liquidity from dividends and 
other distributions from its 
subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends and distributions, 

among other things, to pay 
dividends on our common and 
preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal 

and state laws limit the amount 
of dividends and distributions 
that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries, including 

our broker-dealer subsidiaries, may pay to our parent holding 
company. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets 

upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the 

prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  
For more information, refer to the “Regulation and 
Supervision – Dividend Restrictions” and “– Holding Company 

Structure” sections in our 2012 
Form 10-K and to Note 3 (Cash, 
Loan and Dividend Restrictions
) and Note 26 (Regulatory and 
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
   107Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL REGULATORY 
REFORM AND OTHER LEGISLATION AND 

REGULATIONS 

 
Enacted legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-
Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or 

regulation, could require us to change certain of our 

business practices, reduce our revenue and earnings, 

impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely 

affect our business operations and/or competitive 

position.
 Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many 
of our nonbank subsidiaries such as those related to our retail 

brokerage and mutual fund businesses, are subject to significant 

regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the 

applicable laws of the various jurisdictions outside of the U.S. 

where we conduct business. These regulations protect 

depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers, 

investors and the banking and financial system as a whole, not 

necessarily our stockholders. Economic, market and political 

conditions during the past few 
years have led to a significant 
amount of new legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad. 

These laws and regulations may a
ffect the manner in which we 
do business and the products and se
rvices that we provide, affect 
or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our 
ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit 

our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments 

or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the 

financial services industry, and adversely affect our business 

operations or have other negative consequences. 

 On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, the most significant 
financial reform legislation since the 1930s, became law. The 

Dodd-Frank Act, among other 
things, (i) established the 
Financial Stability Ov
ersight Council to monitor systemic risk 
posed by financial firms and imposes additional and enhanced 

FRB regulations, including capital 
and liquidity requirements, on 
certain large, interconnected ba
nk holding companies such as 
Wells Fargo and systemically significant nonbanking firms 

intended to promote financial sta
bility; (ii) creates a liquidation 
framework for the resolution of 
covered financial companies, the 
costs of which would be paid through assessments on surviving 

covered financial companies; (iii)
 makes significant changes to 
the structure of bank and bank 
holding company regulation and 
activities in a variety of areas
, including prohibiting proprietary 
trading and private fund investment activities, subject to certain 

exceptions; (iv) creates a new framework for the regulation of 

over-the-counter derivatives and new regulations for the 
securitization market and strengthens the regulatory oversight of 

securities and capital markets by
 the SEC; (v) established the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the FRB, 

which has sweeping powers to administer and enforce a new 

federal regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation; 

(vi) may limit the existing pre-emption of state laws with respect 

to the application of such laws to national banks, makes federal 
pre-emption no longer applicable to operating subsidiaries of 
national banks, and gives state authorities, under certain 

circumstances, the ability to enforce state laws and federal 

consumer regulations against national banks; (vii) provides for 

increased regulation of residential mortgage activities; (viii) 
revised the FDIC's assessment base for deposit insurance by 
changing from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities 

to a risk-based system based on total assets; (ix) phases out over 
three years beginning January 2013
 the Tier 1 capital treatment 
of trust preferred securities; (x) 
permitted banks to pay interest 
on business checking accounts beginning on July 1, 2011; (xi) 

authorized the FRB under th
e Durbin Amendment to adopt 
regulations that limit debit card interchange fees received by 

debit card issuers; and (xii) includes several corporate 

governance and executive compensation provisions and 

requirements, including mandating an advisory stockholder vote 

on executive compensation.  
The Dodd-Frank Act and many 
of its provisions became 
effective in July 2010 and July 2011. However, a number of its 

provisions still require extensive rulemaking, guidance, and 

interpretation by regulatory authorities. Accordingly, in many 

respects the ultimate impact
 of the Dodd-Frank Act and its 
effects on the U.S. financial syst
em and the Company still remain 
uncertain. Nevertheless, the Do
dd-Frank Act, including current 
and future rules implementing its provisions and the 

interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, 

require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our 

ability to pursue certain busine
ss opportunities, increase our 
capital requirements and impose
 additional assessments and 
costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our business 

operations and have other negative consequences. 
 Our consumer businesses, in
cluding our mortgage, credit 
card and other consumer lending and non-lending businesses, 
may be negatively affe
cted by the activities of the CFPB, which 
has broad rulemaking powers and supervisory authority over 
consumer financial products and services. Although the full 
impact of the CFPB on our busine
sses is uncertain, the CFPB’s 
activities may increase our comp
liance costs and require changes 
in our business practices as a result of new regulations and 

requirements which could limit or 
negatively affect the products 
and services that we currently offer our customers. As a result of 

greater regulatory scrutiny of our consumer businesses, we also 

may become subject to more
 or expanded regulatory 
examinations and/or investigatio
ns, which also could result in 
increased costs and harm to our reputation in the event of a 

failure to comply with the increased regulatory requirements.   
 The Dodd-Frank Act’s proposed prohibitions or limitations 
on proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, 

known as the “Volcker Rule,” also may reduce our revenue and 

earnings, although proprietary trading has not been significant 

to our financial results. Although rules to implement the 

requirements of the Volcker Rule were proposed in 2011, final 

rules have not yet been issued, and the ultimate impact of the 

Volcker Rule on our investment activities, including our venture 

capital business, is uncertain. 

 Money market mutual fund reform is also currently being 

evaluated. The Financial Stab
ility Oversight Council (FSOC) 
proposed new regulations to address the perceived risks that 

money market mutual funds may pose
 to the financial stability of 
the United States. These proposals include implementation of 

floating net asset value requirements, redemption holdback 

provisions, and capital buffer re
quirements and would be in 
addition to regulatory change
s made by the Securities and 
108   Exchange Commission (SEC) to the market in January 2010.  
Once the FSOC adopts final 
recommendations, the SEC must 
either implement the recommendati
ons or explain in writing the 
reasons the recommendations were not adopted. The SEC has 

publicly stated that it is work
ing on its own reform proposals 
independent of the FSOC’s rulemaking process. Until final 

regulations are adopted, the ultimate effect on our business and 

financial results remains uncertain.  

 Other future regulatory initiatives that could significantly 

affect our business include proposals to reform the housing 

finance market in the United States. These proposals, among 

other things, consider winding 
down the GSEs and reducing or 
eliminating over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing 

mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as 

the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, 

and investors in the mortgage 
market, including reducing the 
maximum size of a loan that th
e GSEs can guarantee, phasing in 
a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, 

improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability 

and transparency in the securitization process. Congress also 

may consider the adoption of legi
slation to reform the mortgage 
financing market in an effort to assist borrowers experiencing 

difficulty in making mortgage 
payments or refinancing their 
mortgages. The extent and timing of any regulatory reform or the 
adoption of any legislation regarding the GSEs and/or the home 

mortgage market, as well as 
any effect on the Company’s 
business and financial results, are uncertain. 
Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also 
could significantly change our regulatory environment and 

increase our cost of doing business, limit the activities we may 

pursue or affect the competitiv
e balance among banks, savings 
associations, credit unions, 
and other financial services 
companies, and have a 
material adverse effect on our financial 
results and condition. 

 For more information, refer to the “Regulatory Reform” 

section in this Report and the “Regulation and Supervision” 

section in our 2012 Form 10-K. 
 Bank regulations, including Basel capital and liquidity 

standards and FRB guidelines and rules, may require 

higher capital and liquidity levels, limiting our ability to 

pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common 

stock, invest in our business or provide loans to our 

customers
. Federal banking regulators continually monitor the 
capital position of banks and 
bank holding companies. In 
December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 

(BCBS) finalized a set of international guidelines for determining 

regulatory capital known as Basel III. These guidelines are 

designed to address many of th
e weaknesses identified in the 
banking sector as contributing to 
the financial crisis of 2008 and 
2009 by, among other things, 
increasing minimum capital 
requirements, increasing the quality of capital, increasing the 

risk coverage of the capital framework, and increasing standards 
for the supervisory review process and public disclosure. When 
fully phased in, the Basel III gu
idelines require bank holding 
companies to maintain a minimum 
ratio of Tier 1 common equity 
to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%. The BCBS has also 

proposed certain liquidity coverage and funding ratios. The 
BCBS liquidity framework was initially proposed in 2010 and 
included a liquidity coverage rati
o (LCR) to measure the stock of 
high-quality liquid assets to total net cash outflows over the next 
30 calendar day period. The BCBS recently published revisions 

to the LCR, including revisions to the definitions of high quality 

liquid assets and net cash outflo
ws. As originally proposed, the 
LCR would be introduced on January 1, 2015, but the revisions 

provided for phased-in implementation over a four year period 

beginning January 1, 2015, with full phase-in on January 1, 2019. 

 In June 2011, the BCBS prop
osed additional Tier 1 common 
equity surcharge requirements fo
r global systemically important 
banks (G-SIBs) ranging from 1.0% to 3.5% depending on the 
bank’s systemic importance to 
be determined based on certain 
factors. This new ca
pital surcharge, which would be phased in 
beginning in January 2016 and be
come fully effective on January 
1, 2019, would be in addition to the Basel III 7.0% Tier 1 common 

equity requirement proposed in December 2010. The Financial 

Stability Board (FSB), in an upda
ted list published in November 
2012 based on year-end 2011 data, identified the Company as 
one of 28 G-SIBs and provis
ionally determined that the 
Company’s surcharge would be 1%. The FSB may revise the list of 

G-SIBs and their required surcharges prior to implementation 

based on additional or future data. 

 U.S. regulatory authorities ha
ve been considering the BCBS 
capital guidelines and related prop
osals, and in June 2012, the 
U.S. banking regulators jointly issued three notices of proposed 

rulemaking that are essentially intended to implement the BCBS 

capital guidelines for U.S. bank
s. Together these notices of 
proposed rulemaking would, among other things:  
 implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory 
capital reforms including those th
at revise the definition of 
capital, increase minimum ca
pital ratios, and introduce a 
minimum Tier 1 common equity 
ratio of 4.5% and a capital 
conservation buffer of 2.5% 
(for a total minimum Tier 1 
common equity ratio of 
7.0%) and a potential 
countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be 

imposed by regulators at their di
scretion if it is determined 
that a period of excessive credit
 growth is contributing to an 
increase in systemic risk; 
 revise “Basel I” rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to 
enhance risk sensitivity; 
 modify the existing Basel II ad
vanced approaches rules for 
calculating risk-weighted assets 
to implement Basel III; and  
 comply with the Dodd-Frank 
Act provision prohibiting the 
reliance on external credit ratings. 
 
 The notices of proposed rulemaking did not implement the 

capital surcharge proposals for G-SIBs or the proposed Basel III 

liquidity standards. U.S. regulat
ory authorities have indicated 
that these proposals will be addressed at a later date. The 

ultimate impact of all of thes
e proposals on our capital and 
liquidity will depend on fina
l rulemaking and regulatory 
interpretation of the rules as we, along with our regulatory 

authorities, apply the final ru
les during the implementation 
process. 

 As part of its obligation to impose enhanced capital and risk-

management standards on large financial firms pursuant to the 

Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB issued a final capital plan rule that 
109Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  became effective December 30, 2011. The final capital plan rule 
requires top-tier U.S. bank ho
lding companies, including the 
Company, to submit annual ca
pital plans for review and to 
obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions. 

There can be no assurance that 
the FRB would respond favorably 
to the Company’s future capital 
plans. In December 2011, the 
FRB proposed rules under the Dodd-Frank Act that will impose 
enhanced prudential standards on large bank holding companies 

such as the Company, including en
hanced capital, stress testing, 
and liquidity requirements and 
early remediation requirements 
that would impose capital distr
ibution restrictions upon the 
occurrence of capital, stress test
, risk management, or liquidity 
risk management triggers. Although the stress testing 

requirements were finalized in October 2012, the remaining 

requirements of the December 2011 FRB proposals have not 

been finalized. 

 The Basel standards and FRB regulatory capital and liquidity 

requirements may limit or otherw
ise restrict how we utilize our 
capital, including common 
stock dividends and stock 
repurchases, and may require us 
to increase our capital and/or 
liquidity. Any requirement that
 we increase our regulatory 
capital, regulatory capital ratios or
 liquidity could require us to 
liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or 
investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial 
results. Although not currently anticipated, the proposed Basel 

capital requirements and/or our regulators may require us to 

raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common 

stock may dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. 
For more information, refer to the “Capital Management” and 
“Regulatory Reform” sections in this Report and the “Regulation 

and Supervision” section of
 our 2012 Form 10-K.  
 FRB policies, including policies on interest rates, can 

significantly affect business and economic conditions 

and our financial results and condition. 
The FRB regulates 
the supply of money in the United
 States. Its policies determine 
in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the 

return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which 

affect our net interest income an
d net interest margin. The FRB’s 
interest rate policies also can 
materially affect the value of 
financial instruments we hold, such
 as debt securities and MSRs. 
In addition, its policies can af
fect our borrowers, potentially 
increasing the risk that they 
may fail to repay their loans. 
Changes in FRB policies are beyo
nd our control and can be hard 
to predict. As a result of the FRB’s concerns regarding, among 

other things, continued slow economic growth, the FRB recently 

indicated that it intends to keep 
the target range for the federal 
funds rate near zero until the unemployment rate falls to at least 

6.5%. The FRB also may continue 
to increase its purchases of 
U.S. government and mortgage-b
acked securities or take other 
actions in an effort to reduce or
 maintain low lo
ng-term interest 
rates. As noted above, a declining or low interest rate 

environment and a flattening yield curve which may result from 
the FRB’s actions could negatively 
affect our net interest income 
and net interest margin as it may result in us holding lower 

yielding loans and investment securities on our balance sheet.   
 RISKS RELATED TO CREDIT AND OUR MORTGAGE 
BUSINESS
  As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., increased 

credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in 

economic conditions, could require us to increase our
 provision for credit losses and allowance for credit 

losses
 and could have a material adverse effect on our 
results of operations and financial condition.
 When we 
loan money or commit to loan money 
we incur credit risk, or the 
risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of 

the largest lenders in the U.S., the credit performance of our loan 

portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. 

As noted above, if the current economic environment were to 

deteriorate, more of our cust
omers may have difficulty in 
repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a 

higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We 

reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a 

charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our 

assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio 

(including unfunded credit 
commitments). The process for 
determining the amount of the 
allowance is critical to our 
financial results and condition. It
 requires difficult, subjective 
and complex judgments about the 
future, including forecasts of 
economic or market conditions th
at might impair the ability of 
our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the 
allowance because of changing economic conditions, including 
falling home prices and higher 
unemployment, or other factors. 
For example, the regulatory environment or external factors, 

such as Super Storm Sandy, also
 can influence recognition of 
credit losses in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses.  
Reflecting the continued improv
ed credit performance in our 
loan portfolios, our provision for credit losses was $1.8 billion 

and $3.4 billion less than net charge-offs in 2012 and 2011, 

respectively, which had a positive effect on our earnings. Absent 

significant deterioration in the economy, we expect future 

allowance releases in 2013, although at more modest levels. 

While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was 

appropriate at December 31, 2012, there is no assurance that it 

will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if 

housing and employment conditio
ns worsen. In the event of 
significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be 

required to build reserves in fu
ture periods, which would reduce 
our earnings. 
For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 
Credit Risk Management” and “C
ritical Accounting Policies – 
Allowance for Credit Losses” sections in this Report.  
 We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses 

to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, 

industry segment, borrower type, or location of the 

borrower or collateral.
 Our credit risk and credit losses can 
increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in 

the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may 

be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or 

market conditions. We experience
d the effect of concentration 
risk in 2009 and 2010 when we
 incurred greater than expected 
losses in our residential real estate loan portfolio due to a 
110   housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in 
residential real estate values 
in many markets, including the 
Central Valley California market and several Southern California 

metropolitan statistical areas. As California is our largest 

banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real 

estate values and underlying 
economic conditions in those 
markets or elsewhere in Californ
ia could result in materially 
higher credit losses. In addi
tion, deterioration in macro-
economic conditions generally ac
ross the country could result in 
materially higher cred
it losses, including for our residential real 
estate loan portfolio. We may experience higher delinquencies 

and higher loss rates as our consumer real estate secured lines of 

credit reach their contractual end of draw period and begin to 

amortize. 
We are currently the largest CRE lender in the U.S. A 
deterioration in economic conditio
ns that negatively affects the 
business performance of our CRE borrowers, including increases 

in interest rates and/or declines
 in commercial pr
operty values, 
could result in materially higher 
credit losses and have a material 
adverse effect on our financial results and condition.  
The European debt crisis, which 
has resulted in deteriorating 
economic conditions in Europe 
and ratings agen
cy downgrades 
of the sovereign debt ratings of several European countries, has 
increased foreign credit risk. Although our foreign loan exposure 
represented only approximately 5% of our total consolidated 

outstanding loans and 3% of our total assets at 

December 31, 2012, continued Eu
ropean economic difficulties 
could indirectly have a material
 adverse effect on our credit 
performance and results of operations and financial condition to 

the extent it negatively affect
s the U.S. economy and/or our 
borrowers who have foreign operations.   
For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 
Credit Risk Management” sect
ion and Note 6 (Loans and 
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this 

Report. 
 We may incur losses on loans, securities and other 

acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially greater 

than reflected in our fair value adjustments.
 We accounted for the Wachovia merg
er under the purchase method 
of accounting, recording the acqu
ired assets and liabilities of 
Wachovia at fair value. All PCI loans acquired in the merger were 

recorded at fair value based on the present value of their 

expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal 

credit, interest rate and prep
ayment risk models using 
assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We 

may not realize the estimated cash
 flows or fair value of these 
loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-

merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their 

expected cash flows – the “non
accretable difference” – is 
available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to 

increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision 

expense because of subsequent addi
tional credit deterioration in 
these loans.  
For more information, refer to the “Critical Accounting 
Policies – Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans” and “Risk 

Management – Credit Risk Manageme
nt” sections in this Report.  
 Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 
quarter to quarter, including as a result of changes in 

interest rates and the value of our MSRs and MHFS, 

and we rely on the GSEs to purchase our conforming 

loans to reduce our credit risk and provide liquidity to 

fund new mortgage loans.
 We were the largest mortgage 
originator and residential mortgage servicer in the U.S. as of 

December 31, 2012, and we earn revenue from fees we receive for 

originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. As 

a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizeable 

portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan 

– collect principal, interest an
d escrow amounts – for a fee. We 
acquire MSRs when we keep the servicing rights after we sell or 

securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the 

servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. 

We initially measure and carry all our residential MSRs using the 

fair value measurement method. Fair value is the present value 

of estimated future net servicin
g income, calculated based on a 
number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood 

of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect 

prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates 

fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage 

loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of 

prepayment increases, 
the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. 
Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any 

decrease in fair 
value reduces earnings in 
the period in which the 
decrease occurs. We also measur
e at fair value prime MHFS for 
which an active secondary market and readily available market 

prices exist. In addition, we me
asure at fair value certain other 
interests we hold related to residential loan sales and 
securitizations. Similar to other 
interest-bearing securities, the 
value of these MHFS and other interests may be negatively 

affected by changes in interest rates. For example, if market 

interest rates increase relative 
to the yield on these MHFS and 
other interests, their fair value may fall. 
When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends 
to fall, reducing the revenue we 
receive from loan originations. 
Under the same conditions, revenu
e from our MSRs can increase 
through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage 

originations usually tend to incr
ease and the value of our MSRs 
usually tends to decline, also with
 some offsetting revenue effect. 
Even though they can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not 

perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative 

effect on revenue from a decrease 
in the fair valu
e of residential 
MSRs is generally immediate, but 
any offsetting revenue benefit 
from more originations and the 
MSRs relating to the new loans 
would generally accrue 
over time. It is also possible that, because 
of economic conditions and/or 
a weak or deteriorating housing 
market similar to current market
 conditions, even if interest 
rates were to fall or remain low, mortgage originations may also 

fall or any increase in
 mortgage originations may not be enough 
to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower 

rates. 
We typically use derivatives an
d other instruments to hedge 
our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We generally do not 

hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging 

any of the risk. Hedging is 
a complex process, requiring 
sophisticated models and consta
nt monitoring, and is not a 
111Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  perfect science. We may use hedg
ing instruments tied to U.S. 
Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly 

correlate with the value or inco
me being hedged. We could incur 
significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be 

periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other 

instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.  
We rely on GSEs to purchase mortgage loans that meet their 
conforming loan requirements 
and on other capital markets 
investors to purchase loans that do not meet those requirements 

– referred to as “nonconforming” loans. During the past few 

years investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen 

sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for 

those loans. In response to the 
reduced liquidity in the capital 
markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans. When we 

retain a loan not only do we forgo fee revenue and keep the credit 

risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that 

could be used to generate new loa
ns. Continued lack of liquidity 
could limit our ability to fund
 – and thus originate – new 
mortgage loans, reducing the fees
 we earn from originating and 
servicing loans. In addition, we cannot assure that GSEs will not 

materially limit their purchases of conforming loans, including 

because of capital co
nstraints, or change their criteria for 
conforming loans (e.g., maxi
mum loan amount or borrower 
eligibility). Each of the GSEs is cu
rrently in conservatorship, with 
its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Agency acting as 

conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the 

conservatorship will end, or any 
associated changes to the GSEs 
business structure and operations that could result. As noted 

above, there are various proposals to reform the housing finance 

market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing 

finance market. The extent and ti
ming of any such regulatory 
reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, 

including whether the GSEs will cont
inue to exist in their current 
form, as well as any effect on the Company’s business and 

financial results, are uncertain. 
For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 
Asset/Liability Management – Mortgage Banking Interest Rate 

and Market Risk” and “Critical Accounting Policies” sections in 

this Report.  
 We may be required to repu
rchase mortgage loans or 
reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches 

in contractual representations and warranties.
 We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including GSEs, 

SPEs that issue private labe
l MBS, and other financial 
institutions that purchase mort
gage loans for investment or 
private label securitization. We 
may also pool FHA-insured and 
VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities guaranteed 
by GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans 

and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the FHA and VA 

contain various representations and warranties regarding the 

origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans, including 

ownership of the loan, compliance 
with loan criteria set forth in 
the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, 
absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing 

the loan, and compliance with a
pplicable origination laws. We 
may be required to repurchase 
mortgage loans, indemnify the 
securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the 
securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred 
on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations 

or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 

90 days or less) after we receiv
e notice of the breach. Contracts 
for mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of 

specific remedies and penaltie
s that could be
 applied to 
inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the 

agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to 

deliver various documents to the se
curitization trust or investor, 
and we may be obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan as to 

which the required documents are 
not delivered or are defective. 
We may negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a 

pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. We 

establish a mortgage repurchase liability related to the various 

representations and warranties that reflect management’s 

estimate of losses for loans which we have a repurchase 

obligation. Our mortgage repurchase liability represents 

management’s best estimate of 
the probable loss that we may 
expect to incur for the representations and warranties in the 

contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because 

the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon 

economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external 

conditions that may change over 
the life of the underlying loans, 
the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requ
ires considerable management 
judgment. As a result of the uncertainty in the various estimates 

underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of 

losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability 

that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of 

possible loss for representations and warranties does not 
represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available 
information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions 

that are subject to change. If economic conditions and the 

housing market do not continue 
to improve or future investor 
repurchase demand and our success at appealing repurchase 

requests differ from past experien
ce, we could continue to have 
increased repurchase obligations 
and increased loss severity on 
repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase 

liability.   

 For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 

Credit Risk Management – Liability for Mortgage Loan 

Repurchase Losses” section in this Report. 
 We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, 

be required to repurcha
se a mortgage loan or 
reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage 

loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other 

sanctions if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, 

including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan 
foreclosure actions.
 We act as servicer and/or master servicer 
for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for 

unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer 

or master servicer for those loans we have certain contractual 

obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third 

parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on 

defaulted mortgage loans
 or, to the extent consistent with the 
applicable securitization or other investor agreement, 

considering alternatives to
 foreclosure such as loan 
112   modifications or short sales and,
 in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the 

servicer. If we commit a material
 breach of our obligations as 
servicer or master servicer, we 
may be subject to termination if 
the breach is not cured within
 a specified period of time 
following notice, which can generally be given by the 

securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security 

holders, causing us to lose serv
icing income. In addition, we may 
be required to indemnify the secu
ritization trustee against losses 
from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to 

perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our 

part that involves wilful mi
sfeasance, bad faith or gross 
negligence. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we 

may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or 

reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a 

remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have 

increased repurchase obligations 
because of claims that we did 
not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or 

increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a 

significant reduction to net serv
icing income within mortgage 
banking noninterest income. 

 We may incur costs if we are requ
ired to, or if we elect to, re-
execute or re-file documents or ta
ke other action in our capacity 
as a servicer in connection
 with pending or completed 
foreclosures. We may incur litigati
on costs if the validity of a 
foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to 

overturn a foreclosure because of 
errors or deficiencies in the 
foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or 

to any title insurer of the proper
ty sold in foreclosure if the 
required process was not follow
ed. These costs and liabilities 
may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly 

to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In 

addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action 

are missing or defective, we could 
be obligated to cure the defect 
or repurchase the loan. We may incur liability to securitization 

investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of 
mortgage assignments 
or other documents necessary to comply 
with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs 

may be negatively a
ffected to the extent our servicing costs 
increase because of higher forec
losure costs. We may be subject 
to fines and other sanctions imposed by Federal or state 

regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our 

foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other 

mortgage loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our 

reputation or negatively affect our residential mortgage 

origination or servicing business. In April 2011, we entered into 

consent orders with the OCC and the FRB following a joint 

interagency horizontal examination of foreclosure processing at 

large mortgage servicers, including the Company. These orders 

incorporate remedial requirements
 for identified deficiencies 
and require the Company to, among other things, take certain 

actions with respect to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure 

operations, including submitting various action plans to ensure 
that our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations comply 
with legal requirements, regul
atory guidance and the consent 
orders. As noted above, any increase in our servicing costs from 

changes in our foreclosure and other servicing practices, 
including resulting from the cons
ent orders, nega
tively affects 
the fair value of our MSRs. 

 On February 9, 2012, a federal/state settlement was 

announced among the DOJ, Dep
artment of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD), the Department of the Treasury, the 

Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission 

(FTC), the Executive Office of 
the U.S. Trustee, the Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau, a task force of Attorneys General 

representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four other servicers 

related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing and 

foreclosure practices. While Okla
homa did not participate in the 
larger settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers 

under a simplified agreement. Under the terms of the larger 

settlement, which will remain in 
effect for three and a half years 
(subject to a trailing review period) we have agreed to the 

following programmatic commitme
nts, consisting of three 
components totaling approximately $5.3 billion:
  Consumer Relief Program co
mmitment of $3.4 billion 
 Refinance Program commit
ment of $900 million 
 Foreclosure Assistance Program of $1 billion 
 
 Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and FRB 

announced the imposition of civil money penalties of $83 million 

and $87 million, respectively, pursuant to the Consent Orders. 

While still subject to FRB confirmation, we believe the civil 

money obligations were satisfie
d through payments made under 
the Foreclosure Assistance Program to the federal government 

and participating states for their use to address the impact of 

foreclosure challenges as they 
determine and which may include 
direct payments to consumers.  

 As part of the settlement, the Company was released from 

claims and allegations relating 
to servicing, modification and 
foreclosure practices; however, the settlement does not release 

the Company from any claims arising out of securitization 

activities, including representations made to investors respecting 

mortgage-backed securities; criminal claims; repurchase 

demands from the GSEs; and inquiries into MERS, among other 

items. Any investigations or litigation relating to any of the 

Company’s mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices that are 

not covered or released by the se
ttlement could resu
lt in material 
fines, penalties, equitable remedies, or other enforcement 
actions. 

 For more information, refer to the “Risk Management – 

Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses” and “– Risks 
Relating to Servicing Activiti
es,” and “Critical Accounting 
Policies – Valuation of Resident
ial Mortgage Servicing Rights” 
sections and Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral) 

and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this 

Report.  
 
Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage 

and bond insurers may negatively affect our servicing 

and investment portfolios. 
Our servicing portfolio includes 
certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from 

one or more mortgage insurance 
companies. To the extent that 
any of these companies 
experience financial di
fficulties or credit 
downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan 

on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with 
113Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we 
would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the 

incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending 

on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and 

other circumstances, although we do not have an additional risk 

of repurchase loss associated with claim amounts for loans sold 

to third-party investors. Similarl
y, some of the mortgage loans 
we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a 

mortgage insurer is unable to m
eet its credit obligations with 
respect to an insured loan, we mi
ght incur higher credit losses if 
replacement coverage is not obtained. For example, in October 

2011, PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (PMI), one of our providers of 

mortgage insurance, was seized by its regulator. We previously 

utilized PMI to provide mortgage insurance on certain loans 

originated and held in our portfolio and on loans originated and 

sold to third-party investors. We also hold a small amount of 

residential MBS, which are backed
 by mortgages with a limited 
amount of insurance provided by PMI. PMI has announced that 

it will pay 50% of insurance claim 
amounts in cash with the rest 
deferred. Although we do not e
xpect PMI’s situation to have a 
material adverse effect on our financial results because of the 

limited amount of loans and securities held in our portfolios with 

PMI insurance support, we cannot be certain that any such 
future events involving one of our other mortgage insurance 
company providers will not materially adversely affect our 

mortgage business and/or financial results. We also have 

investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss 

by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of 

principal and interest on them 
may be negatively affected by 
financial difficulties or credit
 downgrades experienced by the 
bond insurers.  
For more information, refer to the “Earnings Performance – 
Balance Sheet Analysis – Securiti
es Available for Sale” and “Risk 
Management – Credit Risk Management– Liability for Mortgage 
Loan Repurchase Losses” sections in this Report. 

 
OPERATIONAL AND LEGAL RISK  
 A failure in or breach of our operational or security 

systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party 

vendors and other service providers, including as a 

result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, 

result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or 

proprietary information, damage our reputation, 

increase our costs and cause losses.
 As a large financial 
institution that serves over 70
 million customers through over 
9,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs, the Inte
rnet and other distribution 
channels across the U.S. and internationally, we depend on our 

ability to process, record and monitor a large number of 

customer transactions on a cont
inuous basis. As our customer 
base and locations have expa
nded throughout the U.S. and 
internationally, and as customer, public, legislative and 

regulatory expectations regarding operational and information 
security have increased, our operational systems and 
infrastructure must continue to
 be safeguarded and monitored 
for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, 

financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating 

systems and facilities may stop 
operating properly or become 
disabled or damaged as a result 
of a number of factors including 
events that are wholly or part
ially beyond our control. For 
example, there could be sudden increases in customer 

transaction volume; electrical 
or telecommunications outages; 
degradation or loss of public in
ternet domain; na
tural disasters 
such as earthquakes, tornados, and hurricanes; disease 

pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or 

social matters, including terrorist 
acts; and, as described below, 
cyber attacks. Although we have
 business continuity plans and 
other safeguards in place, our business operations may be 

adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to 

our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our 

businesses and customers. 

 Information security risks for large financial institutions such 

as Wells Fargo have generally increased in recent years in part 

because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the 

Internet and telecommunication
s technologies to conduct 
financial transactions, and the 
increased sophistication and 
activities of organized crime, hac
kers, terrorists, activists, and 
other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored parties. 

Those parties also may attempt to fraudulently induce 

employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose 

confidential information in order 
to gain access to our data or 
that of our customers. As noted above, our operations rely on the 

secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential 

information in our computer systems and networks. Our 

banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets 

businesses rely on our digital te
chnologies, computer and email 
systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In 

addition, to access our products 
and services, our customers may 
use personal smartphones, tablet PC’s, and other mobile devices 
that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we 

have robust information security procedures and controls, our 

technologies, systems, networks, 
and our customers’ devices may 
become the target of cyber a
ttacks or information security 
breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, 

monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Wells Fargo’s or our 

customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or 

otherwise disrupt Wells Fargo’s or its customers’ or other third 

parties’ business operations. 

 Third parties with which we do 
business or that facilitate our 
business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, 

financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or 

security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of 

operational and information security risk to us, including from 

breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity 

constraints. 

 To date we have not experience
d any material losses relating 
to cyber attacks or other informat
ion security breaches, but there 
can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the 

future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains 

heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature 

of these threats, the prominent size and scale of Wells Fargo and 

its role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to 

implement our Internet banking and mobile banking channel 

strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions 

to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our 

expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the 
114   outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the current 
global economic and political environment. For example, Wells 

Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions have been the 

target of various denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part 

of what appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the 

operations of financial institutions and potentially test their 

cybersecurity in advance of future and more advanced cyber 

attacks. As a result, cybe
rsecurity and the continued 
development and enhancement of our controls, processes and 

practices designed to protect ou
r systems, computers, software, 
data and networks fr
om attack, damage or
 unauthorized access 
remain a priority for Wells Fargo. As cyber threats continue to 

evolve, we may be required to 
expend significant additional 
resources to continue to modi
fy or enhance our protective 
measures or to investigate and remediate any information 

security vulnerabilities. 

 Disruptions or failures in th
e physical infrastructure or 
operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or 

cyber attacks or security breach
es of the networks, systems or 
devices that our customers use to access our products and 

services could result in customer attrition, financial losses, the 

inability of our customers to transact business with us, violations 

of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties 
or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other 
compensation costs, and/or additi
onal compliance costs, any of 
which could materially adversely affect our results of operations 

or financial condition. 

  Our framework for managing risks may not be effective 

in mitigating risk and loss to us.
 Our risk management 
framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have 

established processes and proced
ures intended to identify, 
measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which 

we are subject, including liquidit
y risk, credit risk, market risk, 
interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and 

reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk 

management framework, there are inherent limitations to our 

risk management strategies as ther
e may exist, or develop in the 
future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or 

identified. The recent financial 
and credit crisis and resulting 
regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of 

the limitations of managing 
unanticipated risks, and our 
regulators remain focused on ensuring that financial institutions 

build and maintain robust risk ma
nagement policies. If our risk 
management framework proves 
ineffective, we could suffer 
unexpected losses which could ma
terially adversely affect our 
results of operations or financial condition.
  We may incur fines, penalties and other negative 

consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even 

inadvertent or unintentional violations. 
We maintain systems and procedures designed to
 ensure that we comply with 
applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory 

frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for 

noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent 

or unintentional and even though 
there was in place at the time 
systems and procedures designed
 to ensure compliance. For 
example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of 
Foreign Assets Control (OFA
C) that prohibit financial 
institutions from participatin
g in the transfer of property 
belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and 

designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose 

penalties for inadvertent or unin
tentional violations even if 
reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There 

may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of 

noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such 

a finding may also damage our 
reputation as described below 
and could restrict th
e ability of instit
utional investment 
managers to invest in our securities. 

 Under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights 

Act of 2012, we are required to
 make certain disclosures in our 
periodic reports filed with the SEC relating to certain activities 

that we or our worldwide affiliates knowingly engaged in 

involving Iran during the quarterly period covered by the report. 

If we or an affiliate were to engage in a reportable transaction, we 

must also file a separate notice regarding the activity with the 

SEC, which the SEC will make publ
icly available on its website. 
The SEC will be required to forw
ard the report to the President, 
the Senate Committees on Fore
ign Relations and Banking, 
Housing and Urban Affairs, and 
the House of Representatives 
Committees on Foreign Affairs 
and Financial Services. The 
President will then be required to
 initiate an investigation into 
the reported activity and within
 180 days make a determination 
as to whether to impose sanctions on us. The scope of the 

reporting requirement is broad 
and covers any domestic or 
foreign entity or person that may 
be deemed to be an affiliate of 
ours. The potential sanctions and reputational harm for engaging 

in a reportable activity may be significant. 
 Negative publicity, including as a result of protests, 
could damage our reputation and business.
 Reputation 
risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from 

negative public opinion, is inherent in our business and has 

increased substantiall
y because of the financial crisis and our 
size and profile in the financial services industry. The reputation 

of the financial services industry
 in general has been damaged as 
a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the 

financial services industry, and ne
gative public opinion about the 
financial services industry generally or Wells Fargo specifically 

could adversely affect our abilit
y to keep and attract customers. 
Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged 

conduct in any number of activi
ties, including mortgage lending 
practices, servicing and foreclosure activities, corporate 

governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, 

and disclosure, sharing or inadeq
uate protection of customer 
information, and from actions taken by government regulators 

and community or other organiza
tions in response to that 
conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the 
“Wells Fargo” brand, negative public opinion about one business 

could affect our other businesses an
d also could negatively affect 
our “cross-sell” strategy. The proliferation of social media 

websites utilized by Wells Farg
o and other third parties, as well 
as the personal use of social 
media by our team members and 
others, including personal blogs an
d social network profiles, also 
may increase the risk that 
negative, inappropriate or 
unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly 
115Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  that could harm our reputation or have other negative 
consequences, including as a 
result of our team members 
interacting with our customers in an unauthorized manner in 

various social media outlets. 

 As a result of the financial crisis, Wells Fargo and other 

financial institutions have been 
targeted from time to time by 
protests and demonstrat
ions, which have included disrupting the 
operation of our retail banking stores and have resulted in 

negative public commentary about financial institutions, 

including the fees charged for various products and services. 

There can be no assurance that 
continued protests and negative 
publicity for the Company or 
large financial institutions 
generally will not harm our reputation and adversely affect our 

business and financial results.  
     Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings.
 Wells Fargo and some 
of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial, regulatory and 

arbitration proceedings or invest
igations concerning matters 
arising from our business activities. Although we believe we have 

a meritorious defense in all material significant litigation 

pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate 

outcome. We establish reserves for legal claims when payments 

associated with the claims become
 probable and the costs can be 
reasonably estimated. We may sti
ll incur legal costs for a matter 
even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual 

cost of resolving a legal claim ma
y be substantially higher than 
any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of 

a pending legal proceeding, depe
nding on the remedy sought and 
granted, could materially adver
sely affect our results of 
operations and financial condition.  
For more information, refer to Note 15 (Legal Actions) to 
Financial Statements in this Report.   

 
RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY’S COMPETITIVE 

OPERATING ENVIRONMENT  

 
We face significant and increasing competition in the 

rapidly evolving financial services industry. 
We compete with other financial institutions 
in a highly competitive industry 
that is undergoing significant changes as a result of financial 

regulatory reform and increased public scrutiny stemming from 

the financial crisis and cont
inued challenging economic 
conditions. Wells Fargo generally 
competes on the basis of the 
quality of our customer service, 
the wide variety of products and 
services that we can offer our customers and the ability of those 

products and services to satisfy 
our customers’ needs, the pricing 
of our products and services, the extensive distribution channels 

available for our customers, our innovation, and our reputation. 

Continued and increased competitio
n in any one or all of these 
areas may negatively affect our market share and results of 

operations and/or cause us to in
crease our capital investment in 
our businesses in order to rema
in competitive. Given the current 
economic, regulatory, and political environment for large 
financial institutions 
such as Wells Fargo, and possible public 
backlash to bank fees, there is increased competitive pressure to 

provide products and services at current or lower prices. 

Consequently, our ability to reposition or reprice our products 

and services from time to time
 may be limited and could be 
influenced significantly by the 
actions of our competitors who 
may or may not charge similar 
fees for their products and 
services. Any changes in the types of products and services that 

we offer our customers and/or the pricing for those products and 

services could result in a loss 
of customers and market share and 
could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 

 Continued technological advances and the growth of e-

commerce have made it possible fo
r non-depository institutions 
to offer products and services that traditionally were banking 

products, and for financial institutions and other companies to 

provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, 

including electronic payment solutions. We may not respond 

effectively to these competitive 
threats from existing and new 
competitors and may be forced to 
increase our investment in our 
business to modify or adapt our existing products and services or 

develop new products and services
 to respond to our customers’ 
needs.  

 
Our “cross-selling” efforts to increase the number of 

products our customers buy from us and offer them all 

of the financial products that fulfill their needs is a key 

part of our growth strategy, and our failure to execute 

this strategy effectively could have a material adverse 

effect on our revenue growth and financial results. 

Selling more products to our customers – “cross-selling” – is 
very important to our business 
model and key to our ability to 
grow revenue and earnings especially during the current 

environment of slow economic growth and regulatory reform 

initiatives. Many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, 

especially in retail banking and 
mortgage lending. This can limit 
our ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us 
to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest 

income and revenue from our fee-
based products. It could also 
affect our ability to keep exis
ting customers. New technologies 
could require us to sp
end more to modify or
 adapt our products 
to attract and retain customers. Our cross-sell strategy also is 

dependent on earning more bu
siness from our Wachovia 
customers, and increasing our cross-sell ratio – or the average 

number of products sold to ex
isting customers – may become 
more challenging and we might not 
attain our goal of selling an 
average of eight products to each customer. 
  Our ability to attract and retain qualified team 

members is critical to the success of our business and 

failure to do so could adversely affect our business 

performance, competitive position and future 

prospects.
 The success of Wells Fargo is heavily dependent on 
the talents and efforts of our te
am members, and in many areas 
of our business, including the commercial banking, brokerage, 

investment advisory, and capital markets businesses, the 

competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. In order to 

attract and retain highly qual
ified team members, we must 
provide competitive compensa
tion. As a large financial 
institution we may be subject to 
limitations on co
mpensation by 
our regulators that may adversely affect our ability to attract and 
retain these qualifie
d team members. Some of our competitors 
may not be subject to these same compensation limitations, 
116   which may further negatively affect our ability to attract and 
retain highly qualifie
d team members.    
 
RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

 
Changes in accounting policies or accounting 

standards, and changes in how accounting standards 

are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how 

we report our financial results and condition. 
Our accounting policies are fund
amental to determining and 
understanding our financial results and condition. As described 

below, some of these policies require use of estimates and 

assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities 

and financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies 

could materially affect our financial statements. 
From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation 

of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting 

standard setters and those who interpret the accounting 

standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our 

outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous 

interpretations or positions on how these standards should be 

applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards 
and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our 
control, can be hard to predict 
and could materially affect how 
we report our financial results and condition. We may be 

required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply 

an existing standard differently, al
so retroactively, in each case 
potentially resulting in our restating prior period financial 

statements in material amounts. 
 Our financial statements are based in part on 

assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could cause 

unexpected losses in the future, and our financial 

statements depend on our internal controls over 

financial reporting. 
Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required 
to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our 

financial statements, including 
in determining credit loss 
reserves, reserves for mortgage repurchases, reserves related to 

litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, 

among other items. Several of our accounting policies are critical 

because they require management
 to make difficult, subjective 
and complex judgments about ma
tters that are inherently 
uncertain and because it is like
ly that materially different 
amounts would be reported under 
different conditions or using 
different assumptions. For a description of these policies, refer to 

the “Critical Accounting Policies
” section in this Report. If 
assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements 

are incorrect, we 
may experience material losses.  
Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets 
and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, MSRs, 

private equity investments, structured notes and certain 

repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a 
determination of their fair value in order to prepare our financial 
statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we 

may make fair value determinat
ions based on internally 
developed models or other means 
which ultimately rely to some 
degree on management judgment, an
d there is no assurance that 
our models will capture or appropriately reflect all relevant 
inputs required to accurately dete
rmine fair value. Some of these 
and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable 

price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being 

based on significant estimation
 and judgment. In addition, 
sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans 

and securities may make it more di
fficult to value certain balance 
sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such 

valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and 

could lead to declin
es in our earnings. 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires 
our management to evaluate the 
Company’s disclosure controls 
and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting 

and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal 

control over financial reporting.
 We are required to disclose, in 
our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any “material 

weaknesses” in our internal controls. We cannot assure that we 

will not identify one or more material weaknesses as of the end of 

any given quarter or year, nor can we predict the effect on our 

stock price of disclosure of a material weakness. Sarbanes-Oxley 

also limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors 
may provide to us in order to pr
eserve their independence from 
us. If our auditors were found not to be “independent” of us 

under SEC rules, we could be re
quired to engage new auditors 
and re-file financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. 
We could be out of compliance wi
th SEC rules until new financial 
statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to 

raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences.  

 
RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS 
 Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon 

announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay 

or have difficulty integrating them. 
We regularly explore 
opportunities to acquire compan
ies in the financial services 
industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our 

acquisitions, and we typically 
do not comment publicly on a 
possible acquisition until we have signed a definitive agreement. 

When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall 

depending on the size of the acquisition, the type of business to 

be acquired, the purchase price, and the potential dilution to 

existing stockholders or our earnings per share if we issue 

common stock in connection wi
th the acquisition.   
We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before 
we can acquire a bank, bank holding company or certain other 

financial services businesses 
depending on the size of the 
financial services business to be 
acquired. In deciding whether to 
approve a proposed acquisition, federal bank regulators will 

consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on 

competition and the risk to the st
ability of the U.S. banking or 
financial system, our financial condition and future prospects 

including current and projected 
capital ratios and levels, the 
competence, experience, and in
tegrity of management and 
record of compliance with laws 
and regulations, the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served, including our record 

of compliance under the Commun
ity Reinvestment Act, and our 
effectiveness in combating money laundering. As a result of the 

Dodd-Frank Act and concerns regarding the large size of 
117Risk Factors 
(continued) 
  financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, the regulatory process 
for approving acquisitions ha
s become more complex and 
regulatory approvals may be more 
difficult to obtain. We cannot 
be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any 

required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be 

required to sell banks, branches and/or business units or assets 

or issue additional equity as a condition to receiving regulatory 

approval for an acquisition. In addition, federal bank regulations 

prohibit FRB regulatory approval 
of any transaction that would 
create an institution holding more
 than 10% of total U.S. insured 
deposits, or of any transaction (whether or not subject to FRB 

approval) that would create a fi
nancial company with more than 
10% of the liabilities of all fina
ncial companies in the U.S. As a 
result, our size may limit our bank acquisition opportunities in 

the future.    
Difficulty in integrating an ac
quired company may cause us 
not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases 

in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits 

from the acquisition. The integrat
ion could result in higher than 
expected deposit attrition, loss 
of key team members, disruption 
of our business or the business 
of the acquired company, or 
otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and team 

members or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 
Time and resources spent on in
tegration may also impair our 
ability to grow our existing busi
nesses. Also, the negative effect 
of any divestitures required 
by regulatory authorities in 
acquisitions or business comb
inations may be greater than 
expected. Many of the foregoing 
risks may be increased if the 
acquired company operates internationally or in a geographic 

location where we do not already have significant business 

operations and/or team members.  
 *   *   * 
  Any factor described in this Re
port or in any of our other SEC 
filings could by itself, or togeth
er with other factors, adversely 
affect our financial results and condition. Refer to our quarterly 

reports on Form 10-Q filed with
 the SEC in 2013 for material 
changes to the above discussion of
 risk factors. 
There are factors 
not discussed above or elsewher
e in this Report that could 
adversely affect our financial results and condition. 
118   Controls and Procedures 
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 The Company’s management evalua
ted the effectiveness, as of December 31, 20
12, of the Company’s disclosure controls and 
procedures. The Company’s chief executive officer and chief financ
ial officer participated in the 
evaluation. Based on this eva
luation, the 
Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer conc
luded that the Company’s disclosu
re controls and procedures w
ere 
effective as of December 31, 2012. 
 Internal Control Over 
Financial Reporting 
 Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13
a-15(f) promulgated under the Secu
rities Exchange Act of 1934 as
 a process 
designed by, or under the supervision of, 
the Company’s principal executive and princi
pal financial officers
 and effected by th
e Company’s Board, management and other personnel, to provide reas
onable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporti
ng and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting princip
les (GAAP) and includes those poli
cies and procedures that: 
 pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
 accurately and fairly reflect th
e transactions and dispositions
 of 
assets of the Company; 
 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with GAAP, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the Company are being 
made only in accordance
 with authorizations 
of management and direct
ors of the Company; and 
 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the 
Company’s assets that could 
have a material effect on
 the financial statements. 
 Because of its inherent limitations, inte
rnal control over financial reporting may no
t prevent or detect misstatements. Projec
tions of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to 
the risk that controls may beco
me inadequate because of change
s in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or
 procedures may deteriorate. No
 change occurred during any qua
rter in 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial 
reporting. 
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth below, and should be read with these limitations 
in mind. 
 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
The Company’s management is resp
onsible for establishing and main
taining adequate internal contr
ol over financial reporting for
 the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 20
12, using the criteria set forth 
by the Committee of Sponsoring
 Organizations of the Trea
dway Commission (COSO) in 
Internal Control – 
Integrated Framework
. Based on this assessment, management concluded that
 as of December 31, 2012, the Company’s internal 
control over financial reporting was effective. 
  KPMG LLP, the independent registered public 
accounting firm that audited the Company’
s financial statements included in this 
Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG’s audit report appears o
n the 
following page. 
119   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders 

Wells Fargo & Company: 
 
We have audited Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
– Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (CO
SO). The Company’s manageme
nt is responsible for main
taining effective internal 
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the e
ffectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, incl
uded in the 
accompanying Management’s Report 
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Ou
r responsibility is to express an opinion on t
he 
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 

 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States). Those
 standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control ov
er 
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control 
over 
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating ef
fectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also incl
uded performing such other proc
edures as we considered neces
sary in 
the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the relia
bility of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements fo
r external purposes in accordance with generally accepted acc
ounting 
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting 
includes those policies and proc
edures that (1) pertain to th
e maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and 
fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the asset
s of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statem
ents in 
accordance with generally accepte
d accounting principles, and that
 receipts and expenditures of 
the company are being made only
 in 
accordance with authorizations 
of management and directors of
 the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthor
ized acquisition, use, or disposition of th
e company’s assets that
 could have a mater
ial effect 
on the financial statements. 

 
Because of its inherent limitations, intern
al control over financial reporting may not 
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, p
rojections 
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject 
to the risk that controls may 
become inadequate because of cha
nges in conditions, or that the degree of
 compliance with the policies 
or procedures may deteriorate. 
 
In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respec
ts, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control 
– Integrated Framework
 issued by COSO. 
 
We also have audited, in accord
ance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board
 (United States), the 
consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2012
 and 2011, and the related consol
idated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each 
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012,
 and our report dated February 27, 2013, expressed an unqual
ified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
San Francisco, California 
February 27, 2013 
120   Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
Consolidated Statement of Income
    Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share amounts) 
  2012  
  2011  
  2010 
 Interest income
       Trading assets 
$  1,358  
  1,440  
  1,098  
Securities available for sale 
  8,098  
  8,475  
  9,666  
Mortgages held for sale 
  1,825  
  1,644  
  1,736  
Loans held for sale 
  41  
  58  
  101  
Loans 
  36,482  
  37,247  
  39,760  
Other interest income 
  587  
  548  
  435  
 Total interest income 
  48,391  
  49,412  
  52,796  
Interest expense
       Deposits 
  1,727  
  2,275  
  2,832  
Short-term borrowings 
  79  
  80  
  92  
Long-term debt 
  3,110  
  3,978  
  4,888  
Other interest expense 
  245  
  316  
  227  
 Total interest expense 
  5,161  
  6,649 
   8,039  
Net interest income
   43,230  
  42,763  
  44,757  
Provision for credit losses 
  7,217  
  7,899  
  15,753  
Net interest income after provision for credit losses 
  36,013  
  34,864 
   29,004  
Noninterest income
       Service charges on deposit accounts 
  4,683  
  4,280  
  4,916  
Trust and investment fees 
  11,890  
  11,304  
  10,934  
Card fees 
  2,838  
  3,653  
  3,652  
Other fees 
  4,519  
  4,193  
  3,990  
Mortgage banking 
  11,638  
  7,832  
  9,737  
Insurance 
  1,850  
  1,960  
  2,126  
Net gains from trading activities 
  1,707  
  1,014  
  1,648  
Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for sale (1) 
 (128)
   54  
  (324) 
Net gains from equity investments (2) 
  1,485  
  1,482  
  779  
Operating leases 
  567  
  524  
  815  
Other 
  1,807  
  1,889  
  2,180  
 Total noninterest income 
  42,856  
  38,185 
   40,453  
Noninterest expense
       Salaries 
  14,689  
  14,462  
  13,869  
Commission and incentive compensation 
  9,504  
  8,857  
  8,692  
Employee benefits 
  4,611  
  4,348  
  4,651  
Equipment 
  2,068  
  2,283  
  2,636  
Net occupancy 
  2,857  
  3,011  
  3,030  
Core deposit and other intangibles 
  1,674  
  1,880  
  2,199  
FDIC and other deposit assessments 
  1,356  
  1,266  
  1,197  
Other 
  13,639 
   13,286  
  14,182  
 Total noninterest expense 
  50,398  
  49,393 
   50,456  
Income before income tax expense
   28,471  
  23,656  
  19,001  
Income tax expense 
  9,103  
  7,445  
  6,338  
Net income before noncontrolling interests
   19,368  
  16,211 
   12,663  
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
  471  
  342  
  301  
Wells Fargo net income
 $  18,897  
  15,869 
   12,362  
Less: Preferred stock dividends and other 
  898  
  844 
   730  
Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock
 $  17,999  
  15,025  
  11,632  
Per share information
       Earnings per common share 
$  3.40  
  2.85  
  2.23  
Diluted earnings per common share 
  3.36  
  2.82  
  2.21  
Dividends declared per common share 
  0.88  
  0.48  
  0.20  
Average common shares outstanding 
  5,287.6  
  5,278.1  
  5,226.8  
Diluted average common shares outstanding 
  5,351.5  
  5,323.4  
  5,263.1  
(1) Total other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses (gains) were $3 million, $349 million and $500 million for the year ended D
ecember 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 
respectively. Of total OTTI, losses of $240 million, $423 million and $672 million were recognized in earnings, and gains of $(
237) million, $(74) million and $(172) million 
were recognized as non-credit-related OTTI in other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, r
espectively. 
(2) Includes OTTI losses of $176 million, $288 million and $268 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respec
tively. 
 The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
121   Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
     Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
      Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012  
  2011 
   2010  
Wells Fargo net income 
$  18,897  
  15,869 
   12,362  
Other comprehensive income, before tax: 
       Foreign currency translation adjustments: 
        Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 
  (6) 
  (37)
   83 
   Reclassification of net gains to net income 
  (10) 
  - 
   - 
  Securities available for sale:  
        Net unrealized gains (losses) arising during the period 
  5,143  
  (588)
   2,624 
   Reclassification of net (gains) losses to net income 
  (271) 
  (696)
   77 
  Derivatives and hedging activities: 
        Net unrealized gains arising during the period
   52  
  190 
   750  
  Reclassification of net gains on cash flow hedges to net income 
  (388) 
  (571)
   (613)
  Defined benefit plans adjustments: 
        Net actuarial gains (losses) arising during the period 
  (775) 
  (1,079)
   20 
   Amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service cost to net income
   144  
  99 
   104 
 Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax
   3,889  
  (2,682)
   3,045  
Income tax (expense) benefit related to other comprehensive income 
  (1,442) 
  1,139 
   (1,291) 
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
   2,447  
  (1,543)
   1,754 
 Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) from noncontrolling interests 
  4  
  (12)
   25 
 Wells Fargo other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
   2,443  
  (1,531)
   1,729 
 Wells Fargo comprehensive income
   21,340  
  14,338 
   14,091 
 Comprehensive income from noncontrolling interests 
  475  
  330 
   326 
 Total comprehensive income
 $  21,815  
  14,668 
   14,417 
           The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
122   Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
 Consolidated Balance Sheet
       December 31, 
(in millions, except shares) 
 2012 
 2011  Assets
     Cash and due from banks 
$  21,860 
  19,440 
 Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments 
  137,313 
  44,367 
 Trading assets 
  57,482 
  77,814 
 Securities available for sale 
  235,199 
  222,613 
 Mortgages held for sale (includes $42,305 and $44,791 carried at fair value) 
  47,149 
  48,357 
 Loans held for sale (includes $6 and $1,176 carried at fair value) 
  110 
  1,338 
           Loans (includes $6,206 and $5,916 carried at fair value) 
  799,574 
  769,631 
 Allowance for loan losses 
  (17,060)
  (19,372)
  Net loans 
  782,514 
  750,259 
 Mortgage servicing rights: 
     Measured at fair value 
  11,538 
  12,603 
  Amortized 
  1,160 
  1,408 
 Premises and equipment, net 
  9,428 
  9,531 
 Goodwill 
  25,637 
  25,115 
 Other assets 
  93,578 
  101,022 
     Total assets (1) 
$  1,422,968 
  1,313,867 
 Liabilities
     Noninterest-bearing deposits 
$  288,207 
  244,003 
 Interest-bearing deposits 
  714,628 
  676,067 
  Total deposits 
  1,002,835 
  920,070 
 Short-term borrowings 
  57,175 
  49,091 
 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
  76,668 
  77,665 
 Long-term debt (includes $1 and $0 carried at fair value) 
  127,379 
  125,354 
    Total liabilities (2) 
  1,264,057 
  1,172,180 
 Equity
     Wells Fargo stockholders' equity: 
     Preferred stock 
  12,883 
  11,431 
  Common stock – $1-2/3 par value, authorized 9,000,000,000 shares; 
       issued 5,481,811,474 shar
es and 5,358,522,061 shares 
  9,136 
  8,931 
  Additional paid-in capital 
  59,802 
  55,957 
  Retained earnings 
  77,679 
  64,385 
  Cumulative other comprehensive income 
  5,650 
  3,207 
  Treasury stock – 215,497,298 shares and 95,910,425 shares 
  (6,610)
  (2,744)
  Unearned ESOP shares 
  (986)
  (926)
   Total Wells Fargo stockholders' equity 
  157,554 
  140,241 
 Noncontrolling interests 
  1,357 
  1,446 
    Total equity 
  158,911 
  141,687 
     Total liabilities and equity 
$  1,422,968 
  1,313,867 
           (1) Our consolidated assets at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, include the following assets of certain variable interest e
ntities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle 
the liabilities of those VIEs: Cash and due from banks, $260 million and $321 million; Trading assets, $114 million and $293 mi
llion; Securities available for sale, $2.8 billion 
and $3.3 billion; Mortgages held for sale, $469 million and $444 million; Net loans, $10.6 billion and $12.0 billion; Other ass
ets, $457 million and $1.9 billion, and Total 
assets, $14.6 billion and $18.2 billion, respectively. 
(2) Our consolidated liabilities at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, include the following VIE liabilities for which the VI
E creditors do not have recourse to Wells 
Fargo: Short-term b
orrowings, $0 and $24 m
illion; Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $134 million and $175 million; Long-term debt, $3.5 billion and $4.9 billion; a
nd 
Total liabilities, $3.6 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively. 
 The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
123   Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
          Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
                                                  Preferred stock 
Common stock 
(in millions, except shares) 
  Shares  Amount 
Shares   Amount 
Balance December 31, 2009
    9,980,940 
  $  8,485  
  5,178,624,593 
  $  8,743  
Balance January 1, 2010
    9,980,940 
   8,485  
 5,178,624,593 
    8,743  
Cumulative effect from change in accounting for VIEs 
         Cumulative effect from change in accounting for  
          embedded credit derivatives 
         Net income 
         Other comprehensive income, net of tax 
         Noncontrolling interests 
         Common stock issued 
      58,375,566 
    27  
Common stock repurchased 
      (3,010,451)
    Preferred stock issued to ESOP 
 1,000,000 
    1,000  
     Preferred stock released by ESOP 
         Preferred stock converted to common shares 
 (795,637)
    (796) 
  28,293,520 
    17  
Common stock warrants repurchased 
         Common stock dividends 
         Preferred stock dividends 
         Tax benefit upon exercise of stock options 
         Stock incentive compensation expense 
         Net change in deferred compensation and related plans 
         Net change 
    204,363 
   204  
 83,658,635 
    44  
Balance December 31, 2010
    10,185,303 
  $  8,689  
  5,262,283,228 
  $  8,787  
Balance January 1, 2011
   10,185,303 
    8,689  
  5,262,283,228 
    8,787  
Net income 
         Other comprehensive loss, net of tax 
         Noncontrolling interests 
         Common stock issued 
      52,906,564 
    88  
Common stock repurchased 
      (85,779,031)
    Preferred stock issued to ESOP 
 1,200,000 
    1,200  
     Preferred stock released by ESOP 
         Preferred stock converted to common shares 
 (959,623)
    (959) 
  33,200,875 
    56  
Common stock warrants repurchased 
         Preferred stock issued 
 25,010 
    2,501  
     Common stock dividends 
         Preferred stock dividends 
         Tax benefit upon exercise of stock options 
         Stock incentive compensation expense 
         Net change in deferred compensation and related plans 
         Net change 
    265,387 
    2,742  
  328,408 
    144 
 Balance December 31, 2011
   10,450,690 
  $  11,431  
  5,262,611,636 
  $  8,931  
                The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
 
(continued on following pages)
 124                                        Wells Fargo stockholders' equity 
        Cumulative
   Total
    Additional 
   other
  Unearned
 Wells Fargo
    paid-in 
 Retained
  comprehensive
 Treasury
 ESOP stockholders'
  Noncontrolling
  Total
capital 
   earnings
  income
 stock
 shares
 equity
 interests
 equity
 52,878  
  41,563  
  3,009  
  (2,450)
  (442)
  111,786  
  2,573  
  114,359 
 52,878  
 41,563 
   3,009 
  (2,450)
  (442)
  111,786 
  2,573 
  114,359 
   183  
        183  
    183 
                  (28) 
        (28) 
    (28)
   12,362  
        12,362  
  301  
  12,663 
     1,729  
      1,729  
  25  
  1,754 
           -  
  (1,418) 
  (1,418)
 375  
  (376) 
    1,349 
    1,375  
    1,375 
       (91)
    (91) 
    (91)
 80  
        (1,080)
  -  
    - 
 (63) 
        859 
  796  
    796 
 212  
      567 
    -  
    - 
 (545) 
          (545) 
    (545)
 4  
  (1,049) 
        (1,045) 
    (1,045)
   (737) 
        (737) 
    (737)
 97  
          97  
    97 
 436  
          436  
    436 
 (48) 
      138 
    90  
    90 
 548  
 10,355 
   1,729 
  1,963 
  (221)
  14,622 
  (1,092)
  13,530 
 53,426  
  51,918  
  4,738  
  (487)
  (663)
  126,408  
  1,481  
  127,889 
 53,426  
  51,918  
  4,738  
  (487)
  (663)
  126,408  
  1,481  
  127,889 
   15,869  
        15,869  
  342  
  16,211 
     (1,531) 
      (1,531) 
  (12) 
  (1,543)
 (37) 
          (37) 
  (365) 
  (402)
 1,208  
          1,296  
    1,296 
 (150) 
      (2,266)
    (2,416) 
    (2,416)
 102  
        (1,302)
  -  
    - 
 (80) 
        1,039 
  959  
    959 
 903  
          -  
    - 
 (2) 
          (2) 
    (2)
           2,501  
    2,501 
 21  
  (2,558) 
        (2,537) 
    (2,537)
   (844) 
        (844) 
    (844)
 78  
          78  
    78 
 529  
          529  
    529 
 (41) 
      9 
    (32) 
    (32)
 2,531  
  12,467 
   (1,531)
   (2,257)
  (263)
  13,833 
   (35)
   13,798 
 55,957  
  64,385  
  3,207  
  (2,744)
  (926)
  140,241  
  1,446  
  141,687 
               125    (continued from previous pages)
                         Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
         Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
                                                               Preferred stock 
 Common stock 
(in millions, except shares) 
 Shares  Amount
 Shares Amount 
Balance December 31, 2011
   10,450,690 
  $  11,431 
  5,262,611,636 
 $  8,931  
Cumulative effect of fair value election for certain 
          residential mortgage servicing rights 
         Balance January 1, 2012
   10,450,690 
    11,431 
  5,262,611,636 
   8,931  
Net income 
         Other comprehensive income, net of tax
          Noncontrolling interests
           Common stock issued 
       97,267,538 
   162  
Common stock repurchased (1) 
       (119,586,873)
   Preferred stock issued to ESOP 
  940,000 
    940 
     Preferred stock released by ESOP 
          Preferred stock converted to common shares 
 (887,825)
    (888)
  26,021,875 
   43  
Common stock warrants repurchased 
         Preferred stock issued 
 56,000 
    1,400 
     Common stock dividends 
         Preferred stock dividends 
          Tax benefit upon exercise of stock options 
         Stock incentive compensation expense 
         Net change in deferred compensation and related plans 
         Net change 
  108,175 
    1,452 
  3,702,540 
   205  
Balance December 31, 2012 
  10,558,865 
  $  12,883 
  5,266,314,176 
 $  9,136  
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2012, includes $200 million related to a private forward repurchase transaction entered into in
 fourth quarter 2012 that is expected to 
settle in first quarter 2013 for an estimated 6 million shares of common stock. See Note 1 for additional information.
  The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. 
126                                                                    Wells Fargo stockholders' equity
      Cumulative 
  Total
   Additional 
  other 
  Unearned
Wells Fargo
   paid-in 
 Retained 
comprehensive 
Treasury 
 ESOPstockholders'
 Noncontrolling 
Total 
capital 
    earnings 
income 
stock 
 shares
equity
 interests 
equity 
          55,957 
   64,385  
  3,207  
  (2,744) 
  (926)
  140,241 
  1,446  
  141,687  
                  2  
        2 
    2  
 55,957  
  64,387  
  3,207  
  (2,744) 
  (926)
  140,243 
  1,446  
  141,689  
   18,897  
        18,897 
  471  
  19,368  
     2,443  
      2,443 
  4  
  2,447  
 (16) 
          (16)
  (564) 
  (580) 
 2,326  
          2,488 
    2,488  
 (50) 
      (3,868) 
    (3,918)
    (3,918) 
 88  
        (1,028)
  -     -   (80) 
        968 
  888 
    888  
 845  
          -     -   (1) 
          (1)
    (1) 
 (23) 
          1,377 
    1,377  
 55  
  (4,713) 
        (4,658)
    (4,658) 
   (892) 
        (892)
    (892) 
 230  
          230 
    230  
 560  
          560 
    560  
 (89) 
      2  
    (87)
    (87) 
 3,845  
  13,292  
  2,443  
  (3,866) 
  (60)
  17,311 
  (89) 
  17,222  
 59,802  
  77,679  
  5,650  
  (6,610) 
  (986)
  157,554 
  1,357  
  158,911  
127   Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
2011    2010  
Cash flows from operating activities:
       Net income before noncontrolling interests 
$  19,368  
  16,211  
  12,663  
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 
       Provision for credit losses 
  7,217  
  7,899  
  15,753  
 Changes in fair value of MSRs, MHFS and LHFS carried at fair value 
  (2,307) 
  (295) 
  (1,025) 
 Depreciation and amortization 
  2,807  
  2,208  
  1,924  
 Other net (gains) losses 
  (3,661) 
  3,273  
  1,345  
 Stock-based compensation 
  1,698  
  1,488  
  1,232  
 Excess tax benefits related to stock option payments 
  (226) 
  (79) 
  (98) 
Originations of MHFS 
  (483,835) 
  (345,099) 
  (370,175) 
Proceeds from sales of and principal collected on mortgages originated for sale 
  421,623  
  298,524  
  355,325  
Originations of LHFS 
  (15) 
  (5) 
  (4,596) 
Proceeds from sales of and principal collected on LHFS 
  9,383  
  11,833  
  17,828  
Purchases of LHFS 
  (7,975) 
  (11,723) 
  (7,470) 
Net change in: 
       Trading assets 
  105,440  
  35,149  
  12,356  
 Deferred income taxes  
  (1,297) 
  3,573  
  4,287  
 Accrued interest receivable 
  293  
  (401) 
  1,051  
 Accrued interest payable 
  (84) 
  (362) 
  (268) 
 Other assets, net 
  2,064  
  (11,529) 
  (19,631) 
 Other accrued expenses and liabilities, net 
  (11,953) 
  3,000  
  (1,729) 
  Net cash provided by operating activities 
  58,540  
  13,665  
  18,772  
Cash flows from investing activities:
       Net change in: 
       Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements 
        and other short-term investments 
  (92,946) 
  36,270  
  (39,752) 
Securities available for sale: 
       Sales proceeds 
  5,210  
  23,062  
  8,668  
 Prepayments and maturities  
  59,712  
  52,618  
  47,919  
 Purchases  
  (64,756) 
  (121,235) 
  (53,466) 
Loans: 
       Loans originated by banking subsidiaries, net of principal collected 
  (50,420) 
  (35,686) 
  15,869  
 Proceeds from sales (including participations) of loans originated for 
        investment  
  6,811  
  6,555  
  6,517  
 Purchases (including participations) of loans 
  (9,040) 
  (8,878) 
  (2,297) 
 Principal collected on nonbank entities’ loans 
  25,080  
  9,782  
  15,560  
 Loans originated by nonbank entities 
  (23,555) 
  (7,522) 
  (10,836) 
Net cash paid for acquisitions 
  (4,322) 
  (353) 
  (36) 
Proceeds from sales of foreclosed assets 
  9,729  
  10,655  
  5,444  
Changes in MSRs from purchases and sales 
  116  
  (155) 
  (65) 
Other, net 
  (1,509) 
  (157) 
  2,800  
  Net cash used by investing activities 
  (139,890) 
  (35,044) 
  (3,675) 
Cash flows from financing activities:
       Net change in: 
       Deposits 
  82,762  
  72,128  
  23,924  
 Short-term borrowings 
  7,699  
  (6,231) 
  11,308  
Long-term debt: 
       Proceeds from issuance 
  27,695  
  11,687  
  3,489  
 Repayment 
  (28,093) 
  (50,555) 
  (63,317) 
Preferred stock: 
       Proceeds from issuance 
  1,377  
  2,501  
  -  
 Cash dividends paid 
  (892) 
  (844) 
  (737) 
Common stock: 
       Proceeds from issuance 
  2,091  
  1,296  
  1,375  
 Repurchased 
  (3,918) 
  (2,416) 
  (91) 
 Cash dividends paid 
  (4,565) 
  (2,537) 
  (1,045) 
Common stock warrants repurchased 
  (1) 
  (2) 
  (545) 
Excess tax benefits related to stock option payments 
  226  
  79  
  98  
Net change in noncontrolling interests 
  (611) 
  (331) 
  (592) 
  Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 
  83,770  
  24,775  
  (26,133) 
  Net change in cash and due from banks
   2,420  
  3,396  
  (11,036) 
Cash and due from banks at beginning of year 
  19,440  
  16,044  
  27,080  
Cash and due from banks at end of year
 $  21,860  
  19,440  
  16,044  
Supplemental cash flow disclosures: 
       Cash paid for interest 
$  5,245  
  7,011  
  8,307  
 Cash paid for income taxes 
  8,024  
  4,875  
  1,187  
             The accompanying notes are an inte
gral part of these statements. Se
e Note 1 for noncash activities. 
128   See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms 
used throughout the Financial Statements and related Notes of 
this 
Form 10-K. 
 Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
 Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services 

company. We provide bankin
g, insurance, trust and 
investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail 

banking, brokerage, and cons
umer and commercial finance 
through banking stores
, the internet and other distribution 
channels to consumers, businesses and institutions in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, and in foreign countries. When 

we refer to “Wells Fargo,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us,” we 

mean Wells Fargo & Company and 
Subsidiaries (consolidated). 
Wells Fargo & Company (the Parent) is a financial holding 

company and a bank holding comp
any. We also hold a majority 
interest in a real estate invest
ment trust, which has publicly 
traded preferred stock outstanding. 

 Our accounting and reporting 
policies conform with U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and practices 

in the financial services indu
stry. To prepare the financial 
statements in conformity with
 GAAP, manageme
nt must make 
estimates based on assumptions about future economic and 

market conditions (for ex
ample, unemployment, market 
liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that affect the reported amounts 

of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 

income and expenses during the 
reporting period and the related 
disclosures. Although our es
timates contemplate current 
conditions and how we expect them 
to change in the future, it is 
reasonably possible that actual 
conditions could be worse than 
anticipated in those estimates, wh
ich could materially affect our 
results of operations and financial condition. Management has 

made significant estimates in several areas, including allowance 

for credit losses and purchase
d credit-impaired (PCI) loans 
(Note 6), valuations of residential mortgage servicing rights 

(MSRs) (Notes 8 and 9) and fi
nancial instruments (Note 17), 
liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses (Note 9) and 

income taxes (Note 21). Actual 
results could differ from those 
estimates. 

  
Accounting Standards Adopted in 2012 

In first quarter 2012, we adopted the following new accounting 

guidance:  

 ASU 2011-05, 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income;
  ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for 
Amendments to the Presentati
on of Reclassifications of 
Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in 

Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05;
  ASU 2011-04, 
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value 
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP 

and IFRSs; and 
 ASU 2011-03, 
Reconsideration of Effective Control for 
Repurchase Agreements.
  
ASU 2011-05
 eliminates the option 
for companies to include 
the components of other comprehe
nsive income in the statement 
of changes in stockholders’ equity
. This Update requires entities 
to present the components of comprehensive income in either a 
single statement or in two separate statements, with the 
statement of other comprehens
ive income (OCI) immediately 
following the statement of income. This Update also requires 

companies to present amounts reclassified out of OCI and into 

net income on the face of 
the statement of income. In 
December 2011, the FASB issued 
ASU 2011-12
, which deferred 
the requirement to present reclassification adjustments on the 

statement of income. In January 2013, the FASB issued ASU 

2013-02, Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. 
This guidance 
requires supplemental disclosures for significant amounts 

reclassified out of accumulated 
other comprehensive income and 
is effective for us in first 
quarter 2013 with prospective 
application. We adopted the rema
ining provisions of ASU 2011-
05 in first quarter 2012 with 
retrospective application. This 
Update did not affect our consoli
dated financial results as it 
amends only the presentation
 of comprehensive income.  
 ASU 2011-04
 modifies accounting
 guidance and expands 
existing disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. 

This Update clarifies how fair 
values should be measured for 
instruments classified in stockh
olders’ equity and under what 
circumstances premiums and discou
nts should be applied in fair 
value measurements. This Update also permits entities to 

measure fair value on a net basis for financial instruments that 

are managed based on net exposu
re to market risks and/or 
counterparty credit risk. ASU 20
11-04 requires new disclosures 
for financial instruments classified as Level 3, including: 1) 

quantitative information about unobservable inputs used in 

measuring fair value, 2) qualitativ
e discussion of the sensitivity 
of fair value measurements to 
changes in unobservable inputs, 
and 3) a description of valuatio
n processes used. This Update 
also requires disclosure of fair value levels for financial 

instruments that are not recorded at fair value but for which fair 

value is required to be disclo
sed. We adopted this guidance in 
first quarter 2012 with prospect
ive application, resulting in 
expanded fair value disclosures. The measurement clarifications 

of this Update did not have a mate
rial effect on our consolidated 
financial statements. 

 
ASU 2011-03
 amends the criteria co
mpanies use to determine 
if repurchase and similar agreements should be accounted for as 

sales or financings. Specifical
ly, this Update removes the 
criterion for transferors to have the ability to meet contractual 

obligations through collateral maintenance provisions, even if 

transferees fail to return transferred assets pursuant to the 

agreements. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2012 with 

prospective application to new transactions and existing 
transactions modified on or after January 1, 2012. This Update 
did not have a material effect 
on our consolidated financial 
statements. 

 129Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
   In third quarter 2012, we
 early adopte
d Accounting 
Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2012-02, Testing Indefinite-
Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment
.  
ASU 2012-02 
provides entities with the option to perform a 
qualitative assessment of indefinite-l
ived intangible assets to test 
for impairment. If, based on qualitative reviews, a company 

concludes it is more likely than
 not that the fair value of an 
indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, 

then the company must complete quantitative steps to 

determine if the asset is impa
ired. If a company concludes 
otherwise, quantitative tests are 
not required. Our adoption of 
this Update did not affect our 
consolidated financ
ial statements. 
 
Accounting Standards with Retrospective Application 

The following accounting pronouncements have been issued by 

the FASB but are not yet effective: 

 
 Accounting Standards Update
 (ASU or Update) 2011-11, 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities; 
and 
 ASU 2013-01, Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about 
Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.
   ASU 2011-11 
expands the disclosure requirements for certain 
financial instruments and derivatives that are subject to 

enforceable master netting agreements or similar arrangements. 

The disclosures are required regardless of whether the 

instruments have been offset (or netted) in the statement of 

financial position. Under ASU 2011-11, companies must describe 

the nature of offsetting arrangements and provide quantitative 

information about those agreements, including the gross and net 

amounts of financial instruments that are recognized in the 

statement of financial position. In January 2013, the FASB 

issued ASU 2013-01
, which clarifies the scope of ASU 2011-11 
by limiting the disclosures to derivatives, repurchase 

agreements, and securities lendin
g transactions to the extent 
they are subject to an enforceable master netting or similar 

arrangement. These changes are effective for us in first quarter 

2013 with retrospective applicatio
n. The Updates will not affect 
our consolidated financial results since they amend only the 

disclosure requirements for offsetting financial instruments. 
  
Consolidation 

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of 

the Parent and our majority-owned subsidiaries and VIEs 

(defined below) in which we are the primary beneficiary. 

Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are 

eliminated in consolidation. If we own at least 20% of an entity, 

we generally account for the investment using the equity 

method. If we own less than 20% of an entity, we generally carry 

the investment at cost, except 
marketable equity securities, 
which we carry at fair value with changes in fair value included 

in OCI. Investments accounted for under the equity or cost 

method are included in other assets. 
We are a variable interest holder in certain special-purpose 
entities (SPEs) in which equity investors do not have the 

characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the 

entity does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities 
without additional subordinated financial support from other 
parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable interest arises from 

contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, 

which change with fluctuations in
 the fair value of the entity's 
net assets. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary 

beneficiary, defined as the party th
at that has both the power to 
direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the VIE and a 
variable interest that could potent
ially be significant to the VIE. 
A variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other interest 

that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE’s net 

assets. To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold 

could potentially be significant 
to the VIE, we consider both 
qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size 

and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or 

not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis. 
 Cash and Due From Banks 

Cash and cash equivale
nts include cash on 
hand, cash items in 
transit, and amounts due from the Federal Reserve Bank and 

other depository institutions.  
 Trading Assets 

Trading assets are primarily securities, including corporate debt, 

U.S. government agency obligation
s and other securities that we 
acquire for short-term appreciation or other trading purposes, 
and the fair value of deri
vatives held for customer 
accommodation purposes or ri
sk mitigation and hedging. 
Interest-only strips and ot
her retained interests in 
securitizations that can be cont
ractually prepaid or otherwise 
settled in a way that the holder
 would not recover substantially 
all of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. 

Trading assets are carried at fair value, with interest and 

dividend income recorded in in
terest income and realized and 
unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. 

Periodic cash settlements on derivatives and other trading assets 

are recorded in noninterest income. 
 Investments 
SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  
Debt securities that we 
might not hold until maturity and marketable equity securities 

are classified as securities available for sale and reported at fair 

value. Unrealized gains and losses, after applicable income taxes, 

are reported in cumulative OC
I. Fair value measurement is 
based upon quoted prices in acti
ve markets, if available. If 
quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair values are 

measured using pricing models 
or other model-based valuation 
techniques such as the present 
value of future cash flows, 
adjusted for the security's credit rating, prepayment 

assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions 

and market liquidity. See Note 17
 for more information on fair 
value measurement of our securities. 

 We conduct other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) 

analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential loss-

triggering event occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both 

debt and equity securities is a de
cline in fair market value below 
the amount recorded for an investment and the severity and 
duration of the decline. 
130    For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the 
fair value below amortized cost ba
sis, we recognize OTTI if we 
(1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than 

not that we will be required to se
ll the security before recovery of 
its amortized cost basi
s, or (3) we do not 
expect to recover the 
entire amortized cost basis of the security. 

 Estimating recovery of the am
ortized cost basis of a debt 
security is based upon an assess
ment of the cash flows expected 
to be collected. If the cash flows expected to be collected are less 

than amortized cost, OTTI is co
nsidered to have occurred. In 
performing an assessment of th
e cash flows expected to be 
collected, we consider all relevant information including: 

 the length of time and the exte
nt to which the fair value has 
been less than the amortized cost basis; 
 the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the 
security; 
 the cause of the price decline, such as the general level of 
interest rates or adverse conditions specifically related to 

the security, an industry or a geographic area; 
 the issuer's financial condit
ion, near-term prospects and 
ability to service the debt; 
 the payment structure of th
e debt security and the 
likelihood of the issuer being 
able to make payments that 
increase in the future; 
 for asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the 
underlying collateral, including delinquency rates, level of 

non-performing assets, cumulati
ve losses to date, collateral 
value and the remaining credit enhancement compared with 

expected credit losses;  
 any change in rating agencies' credit ratings at evaluation 
date from acquisition date and 
any likely imminent action;  
 independent analyst reports an
d forecasts, sector credit 
ratings and other independent market data; and  
 recoveries or addition
al declines in fair 
value subsequent to 
the balance sheet date. 
 
 If we intend to sell the security, 
or if it is more
 likely than not 
we will be required to sell the security before recovery, an OTTI 

write-down is recognized in ea
rnings equal to the entire 
difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the 

security. For debt securities that are considered other-than-

temporarily impaired that we do not intend to sell or it is more 

likely than not that we will not be required to sell before 

recovery, the OTTI write-down is separated into an amount 

representing the credit loss, whic
h is recognized 
in earnings, and 
the amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in 

OCI. The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to 

the difference between the debt security's cost basis and the 

present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the 

security's effective yield. The remaining difference between the 

security’s fair value and the present value of future expected cash 

flows is due to factors that are 
not credit-related and, therefore, 
are recognized in OCI. We believe that we will fully collect the 
carrying value of securities on which we have recorded a non-
credit-related impa
irment in OCI. 
 We hold investments in perpetual preferred securities (PPS) 

that are structured in equity
 form, but have many of the 
characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows 
in the form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to 
debt securities and pricing li
ke long-term callable bonds. 
 Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate 

PPS for OTTI using a model similar to the model we use for debt 

securities as described above. Am
ong the factors we consider in 
our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of 

deterioration in the credit of the 
issuer as indicated by a decline 
in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment 

grade and the estimated recovery period. Additionally, in 

determining if there was evidence
 of credit deterioration, we 
evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, 

(2) the period of time for which the decline in fair value has 

existed, and (3) the financial co
ndition and near-term prospects 
of the issuer, including any spec
ific events which may influence 
the operations of the issuer. We 
consider PPS to be other-than-
temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to be collected are 

insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe 

the security will recover within
 the estimated recovery period. 
OTTI write-downs of PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the 

difference between the cost basis and fair value of the security. 

Based upon the factor
s considered in our OTTI evaluation, we 
believe our investments in PPS currently rated investment grade 

will be fully realized and, accord
ingly, have not recognized OTTI 
on such securities.  
 For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI 

evaluations focus on whether evidence exists that supports 

recovery of the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent 

with temporary impairment. This evaluation considers the 

severity of and length of time fa
ir value is below cost, our intent 
and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the 
fair value of the security, and the investee's financial condition, 
capital strength, and near-term prospects. 
 The securities portfolio is an integral part of our 

asset/liability management 
process. We manage these 
investments to provide liquidity,
 manage interest rate risk and 
maximize portfolio yield within capital risk limits approved by 

management and the Board of Di
rectors and monitored by the 
Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate 

ALCO). We recognize realized gains and losses on the sale of 

these securities in noninteres
t income using the specific 
identification method. 

 Unamortized premiums and di
scounts are recognized in 
interest income over the contractua
l life of the security using the 
interest method. As principal 
repayments are received on 
securities (i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a 

proportionate amount of the related premium or discount is 

recognized in income 
so that the effective interest rate on the 
remaining portion of the secu
rity continues unchanged. 
 NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS  
Nonmarketable 
equity investments include lo
w income housing tax credit 
investments, venture capital equity securities that are not 

publicly traded and securities 
acquired for various purposes, 
such as to meet regulatory requ
irements (for example, Federal 
Reserve Bank and Federal Home
 Loan Bank (FHLB) stock). 
These investments are accounted 
for under the cost or equity 
method and are included in other 
assets. We review those assets 
accounted for under the 
cost or equity method at least quarterly 
131Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
  for possible OTTI. Our review typically includes an analysis of 
the facts and circumstances of ea
ch investment, the expectations 
for the investment's cash flows an
d capital needs, the viability of 
its business model and our exit strategy. We reduce the asset 

value when we consider declines in value to be other than 

temporary. We recognize the estimated loss as a loss from equity 

investments in noninterest income.  

  
Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements 

Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold 

under repurchase agreements are accounted for as collateralized 

financing transactions and are recorded at the acquisition or sale 

price plus accrued interest. It is 
our policy to take possession of 
securities purchased under resale agreements, which are 

primarily U.S. Government and 
Government agency securities. 
We monitor the market value of securities purchased and sold, 

and obtain collateral from or re
turn it to counterparties when 
appropriate. These financing transactions do not create material 

credit risk given the collateral provided and the related 

monitoring process. 
 Mortgages and Loans Held for Sale 

Mortgages held for sale (MHF
S) include commercial and 
residential mortgages originated for sale and securitization in 
the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale 

as whole loans. We elect the fair value option for substantially all 

residential MHFS (see Note 17
). The remaining residential 
MHFS are held at the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM), 

and are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis. Commercial 

MHFS are held at LOCOM and are valued on an individual loan 

basis. 

 Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at LOCOM or at fair 
value. Generally, consumer loans are valued on an aggregate 

portfolio basis, and commerci
al loans are valued on an 
individual loan basis. 

 Gains and losses on MHFS are recorded in mortgage banking 

noninterest income. Gains and losses on LHFS are recorded in 

other noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and fees 

for MHFS and LHFS under fair va
lue option are recognized in 
income at origination. For 
MHFS and LHFS recorded at 
LOCOM, loan costs and fees are deferred at origination and are 

recognized in income at time of
 sale. Interest income on MHFS 
and LHFS is calculated based up
on the note rate of the loan and 
is recorded to 
interest income. 
 Our lines of business are authorized to originate held-for-

investment loans that meet or 
exceed established loan product 
profitability criteria
, including minimum positive net interest 
margin spreads in excess of funding costs. When a 

determination is made at the ti
me of commitment to originate 
loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans 

to maturity or for the “foreseeable future,” subject to periodic 

review under our corporate asset/liability management process. 

In determining the “foreseeable future” for these loans, 
management considers (1) the current economic environment 
and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current 

business plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivable, 

including its expected life, and (4) our current financial 

condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core 
banking business of managing the spread between the yield on 
our assets and the cost of our funds, loans are periodically 

reevaluated to determine if ou
r minimum net interest margin 
spreads continue to meet our 
profitability objectives. If 
subsequent changes in interest rates significantly impact the 

ongoing profitability of certain loan products, we may 

subsequently change our intent to hold these loans, and we 

would take actions to sell such loans in response to the 

Corporate ALCO directives to reposition our balance sheet 

because of the changes in interest rates. These directives identify 

both the type of loans to be sold and the weighted average 

coupon rate of such loans no
 longer meeting our ongoing 
investment criteria. Up
on the issuance of such directives, we 
immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS portfolio at 

LOCOM. 

 
Loans 

Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of 

any unearned income, cumulati
ve charge-offs, unamortized 
deferred fees and costs on orig
inated loans and unamortized 
premiums or discounts on purchased loans. PCI loans are 

reported net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. 

See the “Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans” section in this Note 

for our accounting policy for PCI loans. 

 Unearned income, deferred fees
 and costs, and discounts and 
premiums are amortized to intere
st income over the contractual 
life of the loan using the intere
st method. Loan commitment fees 
are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on 

a straight-line basis over the commitment period. 
Loans also include direct financing leases that are recorded at 
the aggregate of minimum lease 
payments receivable plus the 
estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned 

income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing 

leases, are recorded net of related nonrecourse debt. Leasing 

income is recognized 
as a constant percentage of outstanding 
lease financing balances over the lease terms in interest income. 
 NONACCRUAL AND PAST DUE LOANS  
We generally place loans 
on nonaccrual 
status when:
  the full and timely collection of interest or principal 
becomes uncertain (generally ba
sed on an assessment of the 
borrower’s financial condition and the adequacy of 

collateral, if any);  
 they are 90 days (120 days wi
th respect to real estate 1-4 
family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest 

or principal, unless both well
-secured and in the process of 
collection;  
 part of the principal balance has been charged off (including 
loans discharged in bankruptcy);
   effective first quarter 2012, for junior lien mortgages, we 
have evidence that the relate
d first lien mortgage may be 
120 days past due or in the pr
ocess of foreclosure regardless 
of the junior lien delinquency status; or 
 effective third quarter 2012, performing consumer loans are 
discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency 

status. 
 PCI loans are written down at ac
quisition to fair value using 
an estimate of cash flows deemed to be collectible. Accordingly, 
132   such loans are no longer classi
fied as nonaccrual even though 
they may be contractually past 
due because we expect to fully 
collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new 

cost basis arising out of purchase accounting). 

 When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the 

accrued unpaid interest receivab
le against interest income and 
amortization of any net deferred
 fees is suspended. If the 
ultimate collectability of
 the recorded loan ba
lance is in doubt on 
a nonaccrual loan, the cost recove
ry method is used and cash 
collected is applied to first reduce the carrying value of the loan. 

Otherwise, interest inco
me may be recognized to the extent cash 
is received. Generally, we return a loan to accrual status when all 

delinquent interest and princi
pal become current under the 
terms of the loan agreement and collectability of remaining 

principal and interest is no longer doubtful.  

 For modified loans, we re-u
nderwrite at the time of a 
restructuring to determine if th
ere is sufficient evidence of 
sustained repayment capacity ba
sed on the borrower’s financial 
strength, including documented 
income, debt to
 income ratios 
and other factors. If the borrower has demonstrated 

performance under the previous terms and the underwriting 

process shows the capacity to 
continue to perform under the 
restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing 
status. When a loan classified as a TDR performs in accordance 
with its modified terms, the lo
an either continues to accrue 
interest (for performing loans) or
 will return to accrual status 
after the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of 

performance (generally six consecutive months of payments, or 

equivalent, inclusive of consecut
ive payments made prior to the 
modification). Loans will be plac
ed on nonaccrual status and a 
corresponding charge-off is recorded
 if we believe it is probable 
that principal and interest cont
ractually due under the modified 
terms of the agreement will not be collectible. 

 Our loans are considered past due when contractually 

required principal or interest pa
yments have not been made on 
the due dates.  
 LOAN CHARGE-OFF POLICIES
  For commercial loans, we 
generally fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value 

(fair value of collateral, less estimated costs to sell) for loans 

secured by collateral when: 
  management judges the loan to be uncollectible; 
 repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable 
time frames; 
 the loan has been classified as a loss by either our internal 
loan review process or our banking regulatory agencies; 
 the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes 
evident owing to a lack of assets; or 
 the loan is 180 days 
past due unless both well-secured and 
in the process of collection.  
 For consumer loans, we fully charge off or charge down to net 
realizable value when deemed uncollectible due to bankruptcy or 

other factors, or no later than reaching a defined number of days 
past due, as follows:  
 1-4 family first and ju
nior lien mortgages
 – We generally 
charge down to net realizable value when the loan is 

180 days past due. 
 Auto loans – We generally fully charge off when the loan is 
120 days past due. 
 Credit card loans – We generally fully charge off when the 
loan is 180 days past due. 
 Unsecured loans (closed end) – We generally charge off 
when the loan is 120 days past due. 
 Unsecured loans (open end) – We generally charge off when 
the loan is 180 da
ys past due. 
 Other secured loans – We generally fully or partially charge 
down to net realizable value wh
en the loan is 120 days past 
due. 
 We implemented the guidance in th
e Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency (OCC) update to
 Bank Accounting Advisory 
Series (OCC guidance) issued in third quarter 2012, which 

requires consumer loans discharg
ed in bankruptcy to be written 
down to net realizable value and classified as nonaccrual 

troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), regardless of their 

delinquency status. 

 IMPAIRED LOANS
  We consider a loan to be impaired when, 
based on current information and events, we determine that we 

will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan 

contract, including scheduled inte
rest payments. This evaluation 
is generally based on delinquency information, an assessment of 

the borrower’s financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, 

if any. Our impaired loans predominantly include loans on 

nonaccrual status for commercia
l and industrial, commercial 
real estate (CRE), foreign loans and any loans modified in a 

TDR, on both accrual 
and nonaccrual status. 
When we identify a loan as impaired, we measure the 
impairment based on the present value of expected future cash 

flows, discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate. When 

collateral is the sole source of repayment for the loan, we may 

measure impairment based on the 
fair value of the collateral. If 
foreclosure is probable, we use the current fair value of the 

collateral less estimated selling costs, instead of discounted cash 

flows. 
If we determine that the value of an impaired loan is less than 
the recorded investment in the loan (net of previous charge-offs, 

deferred loan fees or costs 
and unamortized premium or 
discount), we recognize impairment. When the value of an 

impaired loan is calculated by di
scounting expected cash flows, 
interest income is recognized us
ing the loan’s effective interest 
rate over the remaining life of the loan. 
 TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)
  In situations 
where, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower’s 

financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an 

insignificant period of time to the borrower that we would not 

otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. These 

modified terms may include 
rate reductions, principal 
forgiveness, term extensions, payment forbearance and other 

actions intended to minimize our economic loss and to avoid 

foreclosure or repossession of the collateral. For modifications 

where we forgive principal, the en
tire amount of such principal 
forgiveness is immediately charged off. Loans classified as TDRs, 
133Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
  including loans in trial payment periods (trial modifications), are 
considered impaired loans.   

 PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
  Loans acquired 
with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and 

where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually 

required principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI 

loans are recorded at fair value at
 the date of acquisition, and the 
historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not 

carried over. Some loans that otherwise meet the definition as 

credit-impaired are specifically
 excluded from the PCI loan 
portfolios, such as revolving loans where the borrower still has 

revolving privileges. 

 Evidence of credit quality de
terioration as of the purchase 
date may include statistics su
ch as past due and nonaccrual 
status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores 

and recent loan-to-value percentages. Generally, acquired loans 

that meet our definition for nona
ccrual status are considered to 
be credit-impaired. 
 Substantially all commercial an
d industrial, CRE and foreign 
PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely, 

consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based on 

common risk characteristics. Each
 pool is accounted for as a 
single asset with a single composite interest rate and an 

aggregate expectatio
n of cash flows. 
 Accounting for PCI loans involv
es estimating fair value, at 
acquisition, using the principal an
d interest cash flows expected 
to be collected discounted at 
the prevailing market rate of 
interest. The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over 

the carrying value (estimated fair
 value at acquisition date) is 
referred to as the accretable yiel
d and is recognized in interest 
income using an effective yield me
thod over the remaining life of 
the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash 

flows to be collected. The difference between contractually 

required payments and the cash f
lows expected to be collected at 
acquisition, considering the impa
ct of prepayments, is referred 
to as the nonaccretable difference. 

 Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our 

estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. If we have 

probable decreases in cash flows 
expected to be collected (other 
than due to decreases in intere
st rate indices and changes in 
prepayment assumptions), we ch
arge the provision for credit 
losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If 

we have probable and signific
ant increases in cash flows 
expected to be collected, we
 first reverse any previously 
established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest 
income as a prospectiv
e yield adjustment over the remaining life 
of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are 

impacted by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate 

loans and prepayment assumptions,
 both of which are treated as 
prospective yield adjustments in
cluded in interest income. 
 Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third 

parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or 

foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans, gains or 

losses on sales to third parties are included in noninterest 

income, and gains or losses as a 
result of a settlement with the 
borrower are included in intere
st income. Our policy is to 
remove an individual loan from a pool based on comparing the 
amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. 

Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the 

nonaccretable difference for th
e entire pool. This removal 
method assumes that the amount received from resolution 

approximates pool performance expectations. The remaining 

accretable yield balanc
e is unaffected and an
y material change in 
remaining effective yield caused
 by this removal method is 
addressed by our quarter
ly cash flow evaluation process for each 
pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no 

release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there 

is no difference between the amount received at resolution and 

the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not 

removed from a pool even if 
those loans would otherwise be 
deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for 

individually are considered TDRs, and removed from PCI 

accounting if there has been a co
ncession granted in excess of 
the original nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in 

our impaired loans. 

 FORECLOSED ASSETS
  Foreclosed assets obtained through our 
lending activities primarily include real estate. Generally, loans 

have been written down to their net realizable value prior to 

foreclosure. Any further reduction to their net realizable value is 

recorded with a charge to the allowance for credit losses at 

foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after foreclosure to finalize 

determination of net realizable value. Thereafter, changes in net 

realizable value are recorded to noninterest expense. The net 

realizable value of these assets is reviewed and updated 

periodically depending on the type of property. 
 ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (ACL)
  The allowance for 
credit losses is manage
ment’s estimate of credit losses inherent 
in the loan portfolio, including 
unfunded credit commitments, at 
the balance sheet date. We have an established process to 

determine the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses 

that assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio and related 

unfunded credit commitments. Wh
ile we attribute portions of 
the allowance to our respective commercial and consumer 

portfolio segments, the entire allowance is available to absorb 

credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded 

credit commitments. 

 Our process involves procedur
es to appropriately consider 
the unique risk characteristics of our commercial and consumer 

loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio segment, losses are 

estimated collectively for grou
ps of loans with similar 
characteristics, individually or 
pooled for impaired
 loans or, for 
PCI loans, based on the changes in cash flows expected to be 

collected. 

 Our allowance levels are influenced by loan volumes, loan 
grade migration or delinquency status, historic loss experience 
influencing loss factors, and other conditions influencing loss 

expectations, such as 
economic conditions.  
  COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY 
Generally, commercial loans are assessed for estimated losses by 

grading each loan using various risk factors as identified through 

periodic reviews. We apply historic grade-specific loss factors to 
134   the aggregation of each funded grade pool. These historic loss 
factors are also used to estimate losses for unfunded credit 

commitments. In the development of our statistically derived 

loan grade loss factors, we observe historical losses over a 

relevant period for each loan grade. These loss estimates are 

adjusted as appropriate based on additional analysis of long-

term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted 

losses, external loss data or other risks identified from current 

economic conditions and 
credit quality trends.  
 The allowance also includes an amount for the estimated 

impairment on nona
ccrual commercial loans and commercial 
loans modified in a TDR, whet
her on accrual 
or nonaccrual 
status. 

 CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY
  For 
consumer loans, not identified as a TDR, we determine the 

allowance predominantly on a collective basis utilizing 

forecasted losses to represent our best estimate of inherent loss. 

We pool loans, generally by product types with similar risk 

characteristics, such as residential real estate mortgages and 

credit cards. As appropriate and to achieve greater accuracy, we 

may further stratify selected portfolios by sub-product, 

origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and 

other predictive characteristics. Models designed for each pool 

are utilized to develop the loss estimates. We use assumptions 

for these pools in our forecast
 models, such as historic 
delinquency and default, loss 
severity, home price trends, 
unemployment trends, and other key economic variables that 

may influence the frequency and severity of losses in the pool.  
In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our 
residential mortgage portfolio, we take into consideration 

portfolios determined to be at elevated risk, such as junior lien 

mortgages behind delinquent first 
lien mortgages and junior lien 
lines of credit subject to near te
rm significant payment increases. 
We incorporate the default rates and high severity of loss for 

these higher risk portfolios including the impact of our 
established loan modification 
programs. When modifications 
occur or are probable to occur, our allowance considers the 
impact of these modifications, 
taking into consideration the 
associated credit cost
, including re-defaults of modified loans 
and projected loss severity. Accordingly, the loss content 

associated with the effects of existing and probable loan 

modifications and higher risk port
folios has been captured in our 
allowance methodology. 

 We separately estimate impairment for consumer loans that 

have been modified in a TDR (i
ncluding trial 
modifications), 
whether on accrual or
 nonaccrual status. 
 OTHER ACL MATTERS
  The allowance for credit losses for both 
portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or 

uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount 

represents management’s judgme
nt of risks inherent in the 
processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. 

This imprecision considers econ
omic environmental factors, 
modeling assumptions and perfor
mance, process risk, and other 
subjective factors, includin
g industry trends and risk 
assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government 
agencies regarding settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related 
matters. 

 
Securitizations and Beneficial Interests 

In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the 

applicable criteria to 
be accounted for as a sale, assets are sold to 
an entity referred to as an SPE,
 which then issues beneficial 
interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests 

collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain 

beneficial interests issued by th
e entity. Additionally, from time 
to time, we may also re-secur
itize certain assets in a new 
securitization transaction. 
 The assets and liabilities transferred to an SPE are excluded 

from our consolidated balance sheet if the transfer qualifies as a 

sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE. 
 For transfers of financial assets recorded as sales, we 

recognize and initially measure at 
fair value all assets obtained 
(including beneficial interests)
 and liabilities incurred. We 
record a gain or loss in noni
nterest income for the difference 
between the carrying amount and the fair value of the assets 

sold. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, quoted 

market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are not 

available, then the fair value is estimated using discounted cash 

flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments 

and discount rates that are corroborated by and verified against 

market observable data, where possible. Retained interests from 

securitizations with off-balance sheet entities, including SPEs 
and VIEs where we are not the primary beneficiary, are classified 

as available for sale securities, trading account assets or loans, 

and are accounted for as described herein. 
 Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs) 

We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or 

MSRs, as assets whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs 

result from a sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset 

transfers). We initially record all of our MSRs at fair value. 

Subsequently, residential loan MSRs are carried at fair value. All 

of our MSRs related to our 
commercial mortgage loans are 
subsequently measured at LOCOM. 
We base the fair value of MSRs on the present value of 
estimated future net servicing in
come cash flows. We estimate 
future net servicing income cash flows with assumptions that
 market participants would use to
 estimate fair value, including 
estimates of prepayment speeds
 (which are influenced by 
changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior, 

including estimates for borrower default), discount rates, cost to 

service (including delinquency 
and foreclosure costs), escrow 
account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary 

income and late fees. Our valuatio
n approach is va
lidated by our 
internal valuation model validation group and our valuation 

estimates are periodically benchmarked to third party appraisals 

on a quarterly basis. 

 Changes in the fair value of 
MSRs occur primarily due to the 
collection/realization of expected 
cash flows, as well as changes 
in valuation inputs and assumptions. For MSRs carried at fair 

value, changes in fair value are re
ported in noninterest income in 
the period in which the change occurs. MSRs subsequently 

measured at LOCOM are amortized in proportion to, and over 
135Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
  the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization 
of MSRs is reported in nonint
erest income, analyzed monthly 
and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as 

other factors. 

 MSRs accounted for at LOCOM are periodically evaluated for 

impairment based on the fair value of those assets. For purposes 

of impairment evaluation and 
measurement, we stratify MSRs 
based on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying 

loans, including investor and product type. If, by individual 

stratum, the carrying amount of these MSRs exceeds fair value, a 

valuation reserve is established. The valuation reserve is 

adjusted as the fair value changes. 
 Premises and Equipment 
Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated 

depreciation and amortization. Capital leases, where we are the 

lessee, are included in premises and equipment at the capitalized 

amount less accumulated amortization. 

 We primarily use the straight-li
ne method of depreciation 
and amortization. Estimated useful 
lives range up to 40 years for 
buildings, up to 10 years for 
furniture and equipment, and the 
shorter of the estimated useful life or lease term for leasehold 

improvements. We amortize capitalized leased assets on a 

straight-line basis over the lives of the respective leases. 
 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 
Goodwill is recorded in bu
siness combinations under the 
purchase method of accounting when the purchase price is 

higher than the fair value of ne
t assets, including identifiable 
intangible assets. 

 We assess goodwill for impairment at a reporting unit level 

on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. 

We have determined that our reporting units are one level below 

the operating segments. We have the option of performing a 

qualitative assessment of goodwill. We may also elect to bypass 

the qualitative test and proceed directly to a quantitative test. 

We initially perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill to test 
for impairment. If, based on our 
qualitative review, we conclude 
that more likely than not a reporting unit’s fair value is less than 

its carrying amount, then we complete quantitative steps as 

described below to determine if 
there is goodwill 
impairment. If 
we conclude that a reporting unit’s
 fair value is no
t less than its 
carrying amount, quantitative tests are not required. We assess 

goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level and apply 

various quantitative valuation me
thodologies when required to 
compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each 

reporting unit. Valuation methodol
ogies include discounted cash 
flow and earnings multiple approa
ches. If the fair value is less 
than the carrying amount, an additional test is required to 

measure the amount of impairment. We recognize impairment 

losses as a charge to noninterest expense (unless related to 

discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the carrying 

value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent reversals of goodwill 

impairment are prohibited. 

 We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship 

intangibles on an accelerated 
basis over useful lives not 
exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment 

whenever events or changes in ci
rcumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is 
indicated if the sum of undiscou
nted estimated future net cash 
flows is less than the carrying value of the asset. Impairment is 

permanently recognized by writing down the asset to the extent 

that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.  
 Operating Lease Assets 

Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in 

other income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Related 
depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life, considering the estimated residual value of 

the leased asset. The useful life may be adjusted to the term of 

the lease depending on our plans for the asset after the lease 

term. On a periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for 

impairment. Impairment loss is recognized if the carrying 

amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. 

The carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if it 

exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to 

result from the lease payments and the estimated residual value 

upon the eventual disposition of the equipment.  
 Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 

We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including 

(1) Freddie Mac and Fannie 
Mae (government-sponsored 
entities (GSEs)), which include the mortgage loans in GSE-

guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities 

that issue private label MBS, and 
(3) other financia
l institutions 
that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label 

securitization. In addition, we pool Federal Housing 

Administration (FHA)-insured and Department of Veterans 

Affairs (VA)-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities 

guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association 

(GNMA). 
 We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, 
indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or 

reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit 

losses incurred on loans (collectively “repurchase”) in the event 

of a breach of specified contractual representations or warranties 

that are not remedied within a pe
riod (usually 90 days or less) 
after we receive notice of the breach. Our loan sale contracts to 

private investors (non-GSE) typi
cally contain an additional 
provision where we would only 
be required to repurchase 
securitized loans if a breach is 
deemed to have a material and 
adverse effect on the value of 
the mortgage loan or to the 
investors or interests of security holders in the mortgage loan. 
We establish mortgage repurcha
se liabilities related to 
various representations and warranties that reflect 

management’s estimate of losse
s for loans for which we could 
have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently 

service those loans, based on a 
combination of factors. Such 
factors include default expectations, expected investor 

repurchase demands (influenced by current and expected 

mortgage loan file requests and mortgage insurance rescission 

notices, as well as estimated de
mand to default and file request 
relationships) and appeals success rates (where the investor 

rescinds the demand based on
 a cure of the defect or 
acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor’s applicable 

representations and warranties), reimbursement by 
136   correspondent and other third party originators, and projected 
loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans are sold 

and continually update our liabil
ity estimate during their life. 
Although activity can vary by investor, investors may demand 

repurchase at any time and there is often a lag from the date of 

default to the time we receive a 
repurchase demand. This lag has 
lengthened as some investor audit reviews, particularly by the 

GSEs, have changed to reopen or
 expand reviews on previously 
defaulted populations. Accordingl
y, the majority of repurchase 
demands continue to be on loans th
at default in the first 24 to 36 
months following origination of the mortgage loan.  
  The liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included 

in other liabilities. For additional information on our repurchase 

liability, see Note 9.  
 Pension Accounting 
We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an 

actuarial model. Two principal 
assumptions in determining net 
periodic pension cost are the discount rate and the expected long 

term rate of return on plan assets.   
A discount rate is used to estimate the present value of our 
future pension benefit obligations. We use a consistent 

methodology to determine the discount rate that is based on an 

established yield curve methodology. This methodology 

incorporates a broad group of top quartile Aa bonds consisting of 

approximately 325-350 bonds. Th
e discount rate is determined 
by matching this yield curve with
 the timing and amounts of the 
expected benefit payments for our plans.  
Our determination of the reasonableness of our expected 
long-term rate of return on plan assets is highly quantitative by 

nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected 

returns under two sets of conditions: projected returns using 

several forward-looking capital market assumptions, and 

historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970 

or the earliest period for which historical data was readily 

available for the asset classes included. Using long term 

historical data allows us to capture multiple economic 

environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical 

returns. We place greater emphasis on the forward-looking 

return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use 

the resulting projections to derive a base line expected rate of 

return and risk level for the Cash Balance Plans' prescribed asset 

mix. We evaluate the portfolio 
based on: (1) the established 
target asset allocations over short term (one-year) and longer 

term (ten-year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of 

potential outcomes over these horizons within specific standard 
deviations. We perform the above analyses to assess the 
reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan 

assets. We consider the expected rate of return to be a long-term 
average view of expected returns. The use of an expected long 

term rate of return on plan assets may cause us to recognize 

pension income returns that are 
greater or less than the actual 
returns of plan assets in any given year. Differences between 

expected and actual returns in each year, if any, are included in 

our net actuarial gain or loss amount, which is recognized in 

OCI. We generally amortize net actuarial gain or loss in excess of 

a 5% corridor from accumulated 
OCI into net periodic pension 
cost over the estimated average remaining participation period, 
which at December 31, 2012, is 16 years. See Note 20 for 
additional information on our pension accounting. 
 
Income Taxes 
We file consolidated and separate company federal income tax 

returns, foreign tax returns and various combined and separate 
company state tax returns. 
We evaluate two components of income tax expense: current 
and deferred. Current income tax expense represents our 

estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and 

includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax 

positions. We determine defe
rred income taxes using the 
balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax 

asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences 

between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and 

recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in 

which they occur. Deferred inco
me tax expense results from 
changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. 

Deferred tax assets are recogniz
ed subject to management's 
judgment that realization is “more likely than not.” Uncertain tax 

positions that meet the more likely than not recognition 

threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to 

recognize. An uncertain tax positi
on is measured at the largest 
amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 

50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not 

meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax 

benefits. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as credits to 

reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for interest and 

penalties as a component of income tax expense. 

 
Stock-Based Compensation 

We have stock-based employee 
compensation plans as more 
fully discussed in Note 19. Our Long-Term Incentive 
Compensation Plan provides for awards of incentive and 

nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted 

shares, RSRs, performance share awards and stock awards 

without restrictions. We measure the cost of employee services 

received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as 

stock options, restricted share 
rights (RSRs) or performance 
shares, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. 

The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over 

the vesting period of the award; awards with graded vesting are 

expensed on a straight line method. Awards that continue to vest 
after retirement are expensed over
 the shorter of the period of 
time between the grant date and the final vesting period or 

between the grant date and wh
en a team member becomes 
retirement eligible; awards to team members who are retirement 

eligible at the grant date are subject to immediate expensing 

upon grant.  

 
Earnings Per Common Share 

We compute earnings pe
r common share by dividing net income 
(after deducting dividends on pr
eferred stock) by the average 
number of common shares outstanding during the year. We 

compute diluted earnings per 
common share by dividing net 
income (after deducting divide
nds and related accretion on 
preferred stock) by the average number of common shares 

outstanding during the year, plus
 the effect of common stock 
137Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
  equivalents (for example, stock o
ptions, restricted share rights, 
convertible debentures and warrants) that are dilutive. 

 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements in our fair value disclosures and 

to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring 

basis, such as trading assets, or on a nonrecurring basis such as 

measuring impairment on assets carried at amortized cost. 
DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE 
We base our fair values on 
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 

transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 

participants at the measurement date. These fair value 

measurements are based on exit
 prices and determined by 
maximizing the use of observable inputs. However, for certain 

instruments we must utilize unob
servable inputs in determining 
fair value due to the lack of observable inputs in the market 

which requires greater judgment in measuring fair value.
  In instances where there is limited or no observable market 
data, fair value measurements for assets and liabilities are based 

primarily upon our own estimates or combination of our own 

estimates and third-party vendor
 or broker pricing, and the 
measurements are often calculated
 based on current pricing for 
products we offer or issue, the economic and competitive 

environment, the characteristics of the asset or liability and 

other such factors. As with any valuation technique used to 

estimate fair value, changes in
 underlying assumptions used, 
including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, 

could significantly affect the results of current or future values. 

Accordingly, these fair value esti
mates may not be realized in an 
actual sale or immediate settlement of the asset or liability. 

 We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value 

measurement based on the type of asset or liability measured 

and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain 

residential MHFS and certain securities where the significant 

inputs have become unobservable
 due to illiquid markets and 
vendor or broker pricing is not used, we use a discounted cash 

flow technique to measure fair value. This technique 

incorporates forecasting of expe
cted cash flows (adjusted for 
credit loss assumptions and es
timated prepayment speeds) 
discounted at an appropriate market discount rate to reflect the 

lack of liquidity in the market that a market participant would 
consider. For other securities where vendor or broker pricing is 
used, we use either unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or 

vendor or broker prices adju
sted by weighting them with 
internal discounted cash flow te
chniques to measure fair value. 
These unadjusted vendor or broker prices inherently reflect any 

lack of liquidity in the market as the fair value measurement 

represents an exit price from 
a market participant viewpoint. 
 Where markets are inactive and transactions are not orderly, 

transaction or quoted prices for 
assets or liabilities in inactive 
markets may require adjustment
 due to the uncertainty of 
whether the underlying transactions are orderly. For items that 

use price quotes in inactive mar
kets, such as certain security 
classes within securities available for sale, we analyze the degree 

of market inactivity and distresse
d transactions to determine the 
appropriate adjustment to the price quotes. 

 The methodology used to adjust the quotes involves 

weighting the price quotes and 
results of internal pricing 
techniques such as the net present value of future expected cash 
flows (with observable inputs, where available) discounted at a 

rate of return market participants require. The significant inputs 

utilized in the internal pricin
g techniques, which are estimated 
by type of underlying collateral, include credit loss assumptions, 

estimated prepayment spee
ds and discount rates. 
 The more active and orderly markets for particular security 

classes are determined to be, the 
more weighting is assigned to 
price quotes. The less active and orderly markets are determined 

to be, the less weighting is assigned to price quotes. We 

continually assess the level and v
olume of market activity in our 
investment security classes in de
termining adjustments, if any, 
to price quotes. Given market conditions can change over time, 
our determination of which securities markets are considered 
active or inactive can change. If
 we determine a market to be 
inactive, the degree to which price quotes require adjustment, 

can also change. See Note 17 for further discussion of the 

valuation methodologies applied to financial instruments to 

determine fair value
.    FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
 We group our assets and liabilities 
measured at fair value in three 
levels, based on the markets in 
which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of 

the assumptions used to determine fair value. These levels are: 

 Level 1 – Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical 
instruments traded in active markets.  
 Level 2 – Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar 
instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or 

similar instruments in markets that are not active, and 

model-based valuation techniqu
es for which all significant 
assumptions are observable in the market.  
 Level 3 – Valuation is generated from techniques that use 
significant assumptions not observable in the market. These 

unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of assumptions 

that market participants woul
d use in pricing the asset or 
liability. Valuation techniques 
include use of option pricing 
models, discounted cash flow models and similar 

techniques.  
 In the determination of the classification of financial 
instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, we 

consider all available information, including observable market 

data, indications of 
market liquidity and orderliness, and our 
understanding of the valuation te
chniques and sign
ificant inputs 
used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined 
percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments 

derived from weighting both extern
al and internal indications of 
value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or 

Level 3. Based upon the specific 
facts and circumstances of each 
instrument or instrument ca
tegory, we make judgments 
regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the 

instruments' fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 

inputs are considered si
gnificant, the instrument is classified as 
Level 3. 

 
Derivatives and Hedging Activities
 We recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at fair value. On 

the date we enter into a deriva
tive contract, we designate the 
derivative as (1) a hedge of the fa
ir value of a recognized asset or 
138   liability, including hedges of 
foreign currency exposure (“fair 
value” hedge), (2) a hedge of a fo
recasted transact
ion or of the 
variability of cash flows to be 
received or paid related to a 
recognized asset or liability (“ca
sh flow” hedge), or (3) held for 
trading, customer accommodati
on or asset/liability risk 
management purposes, includ
ing economic hedges not 
qualifying for hedge accounting. For a fair value hedge, we 

record changes in the fair value 
of the derivative and, to the 
extent that it is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged 

asset or liability attributable to th
e hedged risk, in current period 
earnings in the same 
financial statement category as the hedged 
item. For a cash flow hedge, we re
cord changes in the fair value 
of the derivative to the extent that
 it is effective in OCI, with any 
ineffectiveness recorded in current period earnings. We 

subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income 

in the same period(s) that the 
hedged transaction affects net 
income in the same financial st
atement category as the hedged 
item. For free-standing derivatives, we report changes in the fair 

values in current period noninterest income. 

 For fair value and cash flow
 hedges qualifying for hedge 
accounting, we formally document
 at inception the relationship 
between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk 

management objective, strateg
y and our evaluation of 
effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This includes linking all 
derivatives designated as fair 
value or cash flow hedges to 
specific assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet or to specific 
forecasted transactions. Periodically, as required, we also 

formally assess whether the deriva
tive we designated in each 
hedging relationship is expected
 to be and has been highly 
effective in offsetting changes in 
fair values or ca
sh flows of the 
hedged item using the regression 
analysis method or, in limited 
cases, the dollar offset method. 

 We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when (1) a 

derivative is no longer highly e
ffective in offsetting changes in 
the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative 

expires or is sold, terminated or 
exercised, (3) a derivative is de-
designated as a hedge, because it
 is unlikely that a forecasted 
transaction will occur, or (4
) we elect to discontinue the 
designation of a derivative as a hedge. 

 When we discontinue hedge accounting because a derivative 

no longer qualifies as an effect
ive fair value hedge, we continue 
to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair value with 

changes in fair value included in
 earnings, and no longer adjust 
the previously hedged asset or li
ability for change
s in fair value. 
Previous adjustments to the hedged item are accounted for in 

the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of 

the asset or liability. 

 When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because 

the hedging instrument is sold, terminated or no longer 

designated (de-designated), the amount reported in OCI up to 

the date of sale, termination or de-designation continues to be 

reported in OCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings. 

 When we discontinue cash flow
 hedge accounting because it 
is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, we 
continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair 

value with changes in fair value included in earnings, and 

immediately recognize gains and lo
sses that were accumulated in 
OCI in earnings. 
 In all other situations in which we discontinue hedge 
accounting, the derivative will be carried at its fair value in the 

balance sheet, with changes in its fair value recognized in current 

period earnings. 

 We occasionally purchase or originate financial instruments 

that contain an embedded derivative. At inception of the 

financial instrument, we as
sess (1) if the economic 
characteristics of the embedded derivative are not clearly and 

closely related to the economic characteristics of the financial 

instrument (host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that 

embodies both the embedded derivative and the host contract is 

not measured at fair value with ch
anges in fair value reported in 
earnings, and (3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as 

the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a 

derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these 

conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording 

the bifurcated derivative at fair
 value and the remaining host 
contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid 

instrument and the fair value of
 the bifurcated derivative. The 
bifurcated derivative is carried as a free-standing derivative at 

fair value with changes recorded in current period earnings. 

 By using derivatives, we are 
exposed to counterparty credit 
risk if counterparties to the deri
vative contracts do not perform 
as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty 

credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset 

on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset 

are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent 

subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net 

of derivatives in a loss position
 with the same counterparty and 
cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk 
through credit approvals, li
mits, monitoring procedures, 
executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, 

where appropriate. To the extent derivatives subject to master 

netting arrangements meet the applicable requirements, 

including determining the le
gal enforceability of the 
arrangement, it is our policy to present derivatives balances and 

related cash collateral amount
s net in the balance sheet. 
Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered in 

determining fair value and 
our assessment of hedge 
effectiveness.
  Private Share Repurchases  
During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased approximately 36 million 
shares and 6 million shares, respectively, under repurchase 

contracts. We entered into these t
ransactions to complement our 
open-market common stock repurchase strategies, to allow us to 
manage our share repurchases in a manner consistent with our 

capital plan submitted under the 2012 Comprehensive Capital 

Analysis and Review (CCAR), and to provide an economic 

benefit to the Company.  
As of December 31, 2012, we had a forward repurchase 
contract outstanding to repurchase an estimated 6 million 

shares, which is expected to settle in first quarter 2013. In 

connection with this contract, 
we paid $200 million to the 
counterparty, which was recorded in permanent equity in the 

quarter paid and was not subject to re-measurement. The 
classification of the up-front payment as permanent equity 

assured that we would have appropriate repurchase timing 
139Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
(continued) 
  consistent with our 2012 capital plan, which contemplated a 
fixed dollar amount available per quarter for share repurchases 

pursuant to Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervisory guidance. 

In return, the counterparty agreed to deliver a variable number 

of shares based on a per share discount to the volume-weighted 
average stock price over the contract period. The counterparty 
has the right to accelerate settl
ement with delivery of shares 
prior to the contractual settlement. There are no scenarios where 

the contracts would not either phys
ically settle in shares or allow 
us to choose the settlement method. 
 SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 Noncash activities are presented below, including information on transfers affecting 
MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs. 
    Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
 2012  
2011  2010  Transfers from trading assets to securities available for sale 
$  -    47  
  -  
Transfers from loans to securities available for sale  
  921  
  2,822  
  3,476  
Trading assets retained from securitizations of MHFS 
  85,108  
  61,599  
  19,815  
Capitalization of MSRs from sale of MHFS 
  4,988  
  4,089  
  4,570  
Transfers from MHFS to foreclosed assets 
  223  
  224  
  262  
Transfers from loans to MHFS 
  7,584  
  6,305  
  230  
Transfers from loans to LHFS 
  143  
  129  
  1,313  
Transfers from loans to foreclosed assets 
  9,016  
  9,315  
  8,699  
Changes in consolidations (deconsolidations) of variable interest entities: 
         Trading assets 
  -    -  
  155  
   Securities available for sale 
  (40) 
  7  
  (7,590) 
   Loans 
  (245) 
  (599) 
  26,117  
   Other assets 
  -    -  
  212  
   Short-term borrowings 
  -    -  
  5,127  
   Long-term debt 
  (293) 
  (628) 
  13,613  
   Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
  -    -  
  (32) 
Decrease in noncontrolling interests due to deconsolidation of subsidiaries 
  -    -  
  440  
Transfer from noncontrolling interests to long-term debt 
  -    -  
  345  
Consolidation of reverse mortgages previously sold: 
         Loans 
  -    5,483  
  -  
   Long-term debt 
  -    5,425  
  -  
        SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 We have evaluated the effects of 
subsequent events that have o
ccurred subsequent to period end 
December 31, 2012, and there have been no material events that 

would require recognition in ou
r 2012 consolidated financial 
statements or disclosure in the Notes to the financial statements, 

except for the announcement on
 January 7, 2013, that the 
Company, along with nine other mortgage services, entered into 

term sheets with the OCC and th
e FRB that provide the parties 
will enter into amendments to the Consent Orders, which would 

end our Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) programs 

created by Article VII of an April 2011 Interagency Consent 

Order and replace it with an accelerated remediation process. 

The amendments to the Consent Orders have not yet been 

entered into with the OCC or FRB. 
 In aggregate, the servicers have agreed to make direct, cash 
payments of $3.3 billion and to provide $5.2 billion in additional 

assistance, such as loan modifi
cations, to consumers. Our 
portion of the cash settlement is 
$766 million, which is based on 
the proportionate share of Wells Fargo-serviced loans in the 

overall IFR population. We fully accrued the cash portion of the 

settlement in 2012, along with other remediation-related costs. 
We also committed to foreclosure prevention actions which 

include first and second lien modifications and short 

sales/deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure on $1.2 billion of loans. We 

anticipate meeting this commitment primarily through first lien 

modification and short sale activi
ties. We are required to meet 
this commitment within two years of signing the agreement and 
we anticipate that we will be
 able to meet our commitment 
within the required timelines. Th
is commitment did not result in 
any charge as we believe that
 this commitment is covered 
through the existing allowance for credit losses and the 

nonaccretable differen
ce relating to the purchased credit-
impaired loan portfolios.  
140   Note 2:  Business Combinations 
 We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services 
companies and businesses. Genera
lly, we do not make a public 
announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a 

definitive agreement has been signed. For information on 
additional contingent consideration related to acquisitions, 
which is considered to be a guarantee, see Note 14. 

 Business combinations completed in 2012, 2011, and 2010 

are presented below. At December 31, 2012, we had no pending 

business combinations.  
 (in millions)
  Date 
  Assets
 2012 
      EverKey Global Partners Limited / EverKey Global Management LLC /  
     EverKey Global Partners (GP), LLC / EverKey Global Focus (GP), LLC – Bahamas/New York, New York 
January 1 
 $  7  
Burdale Financial Holdings Limited / Certain Assets of Burdale Capital Finance, Inc. – England/Stamford, Connecticut
 February 1 
   874  
Energy Lending Business of BNP Paribas, SA – Houston, Texas
 April 20 
   3,639  
Merlin Securities, LLC / Merlin Canada LTD. / Certain Assets and Liabilities
      of Merlin Group Holdings, LLC – San Francisco, California/Toronto, Ontario 
August 1 
   281  
         $  4,801  
2011  
     CP Equity, LLC – Denver, Colorado 
July 1 
 $  389  
Certain assets of Foreign Currency Exchange Corp – Orlando, Florida 
August 1 
   46  
LaCrosse Holdings, LLC – Minneapolis, Minnesota 
November 30 
   116  
Other (1) 
Various 
   37  
         $  588  
2010 
      Certain assets of GMAC Commercial Finance, LLC – New York, New York 
April 30 
 $  430  
Other (2) 
Various 
   40  
         $  470  
(1) Consists of seven acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 
(2) Consists of five acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 
141   Note 3:  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 
 Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of 
our subsidiary banks maintain re
serve balances on deposit with 
the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reserve balance 

was $9.1 billion in 2012 and $7.0 billion in 2011. 

 Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit 
and non-credit transactions be
tween a bank and its nonbank 
affiliates. They may not exceed 10% of the bank's capital and 

surplus (which for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 

capital, as calculated under 
the risk-based capital (RBC) 
guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses 

excluded from Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate 

and 20% of the bank's capital and surplus with all its nonbank 

affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of credit may require 

collateral to be held to provide added security to the bank. For 

further discussion of RBC, see Note 26 in this Report. 

 Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various 

federal and state regulatory limitations. Dividends that may be 

paid by a national bank withou
t the express approval of the 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to 

that bank's retained net profit
s for the preceding two calendar 
years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend 

declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as 

defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends 

declared during the period. 

 We also have a state-chartered subsidiary bank that is subject 

to state regulations that limit dividends. Under those provisions, 

our national and state-chartered subsidiary banks could have 
declared additional dividends of $1.7 billion at 
December 31, 2012, without obta
ining prior regulatory approval. 
Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and 

state statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount 

of dividends that may be paid in any given year. Based on 

retained earnings at December 31, 2012, our nonbank 

subsidiaries could have declar
ed additional dividends of 
$6.2 billion at December 31, 2012, without obtaining prior 

approval. 

 The FRB published clarifying 
supervisory guidance in first 
quarter 2009, SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and 
Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, 

and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,
 pertaining 
to FRB's criteria, assessment and approval process for 
reductions in capital. The FRB 
supplemented this guidance with 
the Capital Plan Rule issued in fourth quarter 2011 (codified at 

12 CFR 225.8 of Regulation Y) that
 establishes capital planning 
and prior notice and approval requirements for capital 

distributions including divide
nds by certain bank holding 
companies. The effect of this guid
ance is to require the approval 
of the FRB (or specifically under the Capital Plan Rule, a notice 

of non-objection) for the Company to repurchase or redeem 
common or perpetual pr
eferred stock as well as to raise the per 
share quarterly dividend from its current level of $0.25 per share 

as declared by the Company’
s Board of Directors on 
January 22, 2013, payable on March 1, 2013. 
 Note 4:  Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements  
and Other Short-Term Investments 
 The following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, 
securities purchased under short-term resale agreements 
(generally less than one year) and other short-term investments. 
The majority of interest-earning 
deposits at December 31, 2012, 
were held at the Federal Reserve.  
   December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012  
  2011 
Federal funds sold and securities 
     purchased under resale agreements 
$  33,884  
  24,255 
Interest-earning deposits 
  102,408  
  18,917 
Other short-term investments 
  1,021  
  1,195 
 Total 
$  137,313  
  44,367 
       We have classified in loans securities purchased under long-
term resale agreements (generally one year or more), which 

totaled $9.5 billion and $8.7 bi
llion at December 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively. For additional information on the collateral 

we receive from other entities under resale agreements and 

securities borrowings, see the “Pledged Assets and Collateral” 

section of Note 14. 
142   Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
 The following table provides the amortized cost and fair value for 
the major categories of securities available for sale carried at fair 

value. The net unrealized gains (losses) are reported on an 
after-tax basis as a component of 
cumulative OCI. There were no 
securities classified as held to maturity as of the periods 

presented. 
          Gross
 Gross 
          unrealized
 unrealized 
Fair 
(in millions) 
 Cost
gains 
losses 
value 
December 31, 2012
                  Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  7,099 
 47  
 -   7,146  
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  37,120 
 2,000  
 (444) 
 38,676  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
      Federal agencies 
  92,855 
 4,434  
 (4) 
 97,285  
 Residential 
  14,178 
 1,802  
 (49) 
 15,931  
 Commercial 
  18,438 
 1,798  
 (268) 
 19,968  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  125,471 
 8,034  
 (321) 
 133,184  
Corporate debt securities 
  20,120 
 1,282  
 (69) 
 21,333  
Collateralized debt obligations 
(1)
   12,726 
 557  
 (95) 
 13,188  
Other 
(2) 
   18,410 
 553  
 (76) 
 18,887  
   Total debt securities 
  220,946 
 12,473  
 (1,005) 
 232,414  
Marketable equity securities: 
      Perpetual preferred securities 
  1,935 
 281  
 (40) 
 2,176  
 Other marketable equity securities 
  402 
 216  
 (9) 
 609  
   Total marketable equity securities 
  2,337 
 497  
 (49) 
 2,785  
    Total 
(3)
 $  223,283 
 12,970  
 (1,054) 
 235,199  
December 31, 2011 
                 Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  6,920 
 59  
 (11) 
 6,968  
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  32,307 
 1,169  
 (883) 
 32,593  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
      Federal agencies 
  92,279 
 4,485  
 (10) 
 96,754  
 Residential  
  16,997 
 1,253  
 (414) 
 17,836  
 Commercial 
  17,829 
 1,249  
 (928) 
 18,150  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  127,105 
 6,987  
 (1,352) 
 132,740  
Corporate debt securities 
  17,921 
 769  
 (286) 
 18,404  
Collateralized debt obligations (1) 
  8,650 
 298  
 (349) 
 8,599  
Other (2) 
  19,739 
 378  
 (225) 
 19,892  
   Total debt securities 
  212,642 
 9,660  
 (3,106) 
 219,196  
Marketable equity securities: 
      Perpetual preferred securities 
  2,396 
 185  
 (54) 
 2,527  
 Other marketable equity securities 
  533 
 366  
 (9) 
 890  
   Total marketable equity securities 
  2,929 
 551  
 (63) 
 3,417  
    Total (3) 
$  215,571 
 10,211  
 (3,169) 
 222,613  
(1) Includes collateralized loan obligations with a cost basis and fair value of $12.2 billion and $12.5 billion, respectively, at 
December 31, 2012, and $8.1 billion for both cost 
basis and fair value, at December 31, 2011.  
(2) Included in the “Other” category are asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves with a co
st basis and fair value of $5.9 billion each at 
December 31, 2012, and $6.7 billion each at December 31, 2011. Al
so included in the "Other" category are asset-backed securitie
s collateralized by home equity loans with 
a cost basis and fair value of $695 million and $918 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and $846 million and $932 mil
lion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. 
The remaining balances primarily include asset-backed securities collateralized by credit cards and student loans. 
(3) At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we held no securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury and federal agencies) wi
th a book value that exceeded 10% of 
stockholders’ equity. 
143Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued) 
  Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value 
The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair 

value of securities in the securiti
es available-for-sale portfolio by 
length of time that individual 
securities in each category had 
been in a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we 
have taken credit-related OTTI 
write-downs are categorized as 
being “less than 12 months” or “12 months or more” in a 

continuous loss position based on the point in time that the fair 

value declined to below the cost basis and not the period of time 

since the credit-related OTTI write-down.
         Less than 12 months 
 12 months or more
 Total 
       Gross 
 Gross
 Gross 
       unrealized 
Fair 
unrealized 
Fair 
unrealized 
Fair 
(in millions) 
 losses 
value 
losses
value 
losses
 value 
December 31, 2012
                         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  -   -    -  -    -   -  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  (55) 
 2,709  
  (389)
 4,662  
  (444) 
 7,371  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
          Federal agencies 
  (4) 
 2,247  
  -  -    (4) 
 2,247  
 Residential 
  (4) 
 261  
  (45)
 1,564  
  (49) 
 1,825  
 Commercial 
  (6) 
 491  
  (262)
 2,564  
  (268) 
 3,055  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  (14) 
 2,999  
  (307)
 4,128  
  (321) 
 7,127  
Corporate debt securities 
  (14) 
 1,217  
  (55)
 305  
  (69) 
 1,522  
Collateralized debt obligations 
  (2) 
 1,485  
  (93)
 798  
  (95) 
 2,283  
Other  
  (11) 
 2,153  
  (65)
 1,010  
  (76) 
 3,163  
   Total debt securities 
  (96) 
 10,563  
  (909)
 10,903  
  (1,005) 
 21,466  
Marketable equity securities: 
          Perpetual preferred securities 
  (3) 
 116  
  (37)
 538  
  (40) 
 654  
 Other marketable equity securities 
  (9) 
 48  
  -  -    (9) 
 48  
   Total marketable equity securities 
  (12) 
 164  
  (37)
 538  
  (49) 
 702  
    Total 
$  (108) 
 10,727  
  (946)
 11,441  
  (1,054) 
 22,168  
December 31, 2011 
                        Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  (11) 
 5,473  
  - 
 -  
  (11) 
 5,473  
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  (229) 
 8,501  
  (654)
 4,348  
  (883) 
 12,849  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
          Federal agencies 
  (7) 
 2,392  
  (3)
 627  
  (10) 
 3,019  
 Residential  
  (80) 
 3,780  
  (334)
 3,440  
  (414) 
 7,220  
 Commercial 
  (157) 
 3,183  
  (771)
 3,964  
  (928) 
 7,147  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  (244) 
 9,355  
  (1,108)
 8,031  
  (1,352) 
 17,386  
Corporate debt securities 
  (205) 
 8,107  
  (81)
 167  
  (286) 
 8,274  
Collateralized debt obligations 
  (150) 
 4,268  
  (199)
 613  
  (349) 
 4,881  
Other 
  (55) 
 3,002  
  (170)
 841  
  (225) 
 3,843  
   Total debt securities 
  (894) 
 38,706  
  (2,212)
 14,000  
  (3,106) 
 52,706  
Marketable equity securities: 
          Perpetual preferred securities 
  (13) 
 316  
  (41)
 530  
  (54) 
 846  
 Other marketable equity securities 
  (9) 
 61  
  - 
 -  
  (9) 
 61  
   Total marketable equity securities 
  (22) 
 377  
  (41)
 530  
  (63) 
 907  
    Total 
$  (916) 
 39,083  
  (2,253)
 14,530  
  (3,169) 
 53,613  
144     We do not have the intent to 
sell any securities included in 
the previous table. For debt securi
ties included in the table, we 
have concluded it is more likely 
than not that we will not be 
required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. We 

have assessed each security with gross unrealized losses for 

credit impairment. For debt securities, we evaluate, where 

necessary, whether credit impair
ment exists by comparing the 
present value of the expected cash flows to the securities’ 

amortized cost basis. For equi
ty securities, we consider 
numerous factors in determinin
g whether impairment exists, 
including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period 

of time sufficient to recover th
e cost basis of the securities. 
 See Note 1 – “Investments” for th
e factors that we consider in 
our analysis of OTTI for debt and equity securities available for 

sale. 

 SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES AND 
FEDERAL AGENCY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MBS)
  The unrealized losses associated 
with U.S. Treasury and federal 
agency securities and federal ag
ency MBS are primarily driven 
by changes in interest rates and no
t due to credit losses given the 
explicit or implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. government. 
 SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS
  The unrealized losses associated 
with securities of U.S. states 
and political subdivisions are prim
arily driven by changes in the 
relationship between municipal an
d term funding credit curves 
rather than by changes to the credit quality of the underlying 

securities. Substantially all of these investments are investment 

grade. The securities were generally underwritten in accordance 

with our own investment standards prior to the decision to 

purchase. Some of these securities are guaranteed by a bond 

insurer, but we did not rely on this guarantee in making our 

investment decision. These inve
stments will continue to be 
monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis, but are 

expected to perform, even if the 
rating agencies reduce the credit 
rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 

 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL MBS
  The unrealized losses 
associated with private resi
dential MBS and commercial MBS 
are primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, 

credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit 

impairment by estimating the pr
esent value of expected cash 
flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows 
include default rates, loss severities and/or prepayment rates. 

We estimate losses to a security 
by forecasting the underlying 
mortgage loans in each transa
ction. We use forecasted loan 
performance to project cash flows 
to the various tranches in the 
structure. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as 

applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, 

sector credit ratings, and other 
independent market data. Based 
upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit 

enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
 CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES
  The unrealized losses 
associated with corporate debt securities are primarily related to 
unsecured debt obligations issued
 by various corporations. We 
evaluate the financial performance of each issuer on a quarterly 
basis to determine that the is
suer can make all contractual 
principal and interest payments. Based upon this assessment, we 

expect to recover the entire 
amortized cost basis of these 
securities. 

 COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)
  The unrealized 
losses associated with CDOs relate to securities primarily backed 

by commercial, residential or 
other consumer collateral. The 
unrealized losses are primarily driven by changes in projected 

collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for 

credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected 
cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash 

flows include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. 

We also consider cash flow fo
recasts and, as applicable, 
independent industry analyst report
s and forecasts, sector credit 
ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our 

assessment of the expected 
credit losses and the credit 
enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the 

entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 

 OTHER DEBT SECURITIES
  The unrealized losses associated with 
other debt securities primarily relate to other asset-backed 
securities. The losses are primarily driven by changes in 

projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We 

assess for credit impairment by 
estimating the present value of 
expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining 
expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and 

prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected 

credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, 

we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these 

securities. 

 MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES
  Our marketable equity 
securities include investments in
 perpetual preferred securities, 
which provide attractive tax-equivalent yields. We evaluated 

these hybrid financial instru
ments with investment-grade 
ratings for impairment using an 
evaluation methodology similar 
to that used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities are 
not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired if there is 
no evidence of credit deteri
oration or investment rating 
downgrades of any issuers to below investment grade, and we 

expect to continue to receive full contractual payments. We will 

continue to evaluate the prospects for these securities for 

recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for 

estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write-downs on 

perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of credit 

deterioration. 

  OTHER SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE MATTERS
  The fair 
values of our investment securities
 could decline in the future if 
the underlying performance of the collateral for the residential 

and commercial MBS or other securities deteriorate and our 

credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to 

our contractual principal and interest. As a result, there is a risk 

that significant OTTI may occur in the future. 
145Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued) 
   The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair 
value of debt and perpetual preferred securities available for sale 

by those rated investment grade and those rated less than 

investment grade, according to their lowest credit rating by 

Standard & Poor’s Rating Servic
es (S&P) or Moody’s Investors 
Service (Moody’s). Credit ratings
 express opinions about the 
credit quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, 

that is those rated BBB- or higher
 by S&P or Baa3 or higher by 
Moody’s, are generally considered by the rating agencies and 

market participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities 

rated below investment grade, labe
led as “speculative grade” by 
the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively higher 
credit risk than investment grade securities. We have also 
included securities not rated by
 S&P or Moody’s in the table 
below based on the internal credit grade of the securities (used 

for credit risk management purp
oses) equivalent to the credit 
rating assigned by major credit agencies. The unrealized losses 

and fair value of unrated securit
ies categorized as investment 
grade based on internal credit grades were $19 million and 

$2.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012, and 

$207 million and $6.2 billion, respectively, at 

December 31, 2011. If an internal credit grade was not assigned, 
we categorized the security 
as non-investment grade. 
         Investment grade 
 Non-investment grade 
        Gross 
  Gross 
         unrealized 
Fair 
 unrealized 
Fair 
(in millions) 
 losses 
value 
 losses 
value 
December 31, 2012
                    Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  -   -    -   -  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  (378) 
 6,839  
  (66) 
 532  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
       Federal agencies 
  (4) 
 2,247  
  -   -   Residential 
  (3) 
 78  
  (46) 
 1,747  
 Commercial 
  (31) 
 2,110  
  (237) 
 945  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  (38) 
 4,435  
  (283) 
 2,692  
Corporate debt securities 
  (19) 
 1,112  
  (50) 
 410  
Collateralized debt obligations 
  (49) 
 2,065  
  (46) 
 218  
Other 
  (49) 
 3,034  
  (27) 
 129  
   Total debt securities 
  (533) 
 17,485  
  (472) 
 3,981  
Perpetual preferred securities 
  (40) 
 654  
  -   -      Total 
$  (573) 
 18,139  
  (472) 
 3,981  
December 31, 2011 
                   Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  (11) 
 5,473  
  -  
 -  
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  (781) 
 12,093  
  (102) 
 756  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
       Federal agencies 
  (10) 
 3,019  
  -  
 -  
 Residential 
  (39) 
 2,503  
  (375) 
 4,717  
 Commercial 
  (429) 
 6,273  
  (499) 
 874  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  (478) 
 11,795  
  (874) 
 5,591  
Corporate debt securities 
  (165) 
 7,156  
  (121) 
 1,118  
Collateralized debt obligations 
  (185) 
 4,597  
  (164) 
 284  
Other 
  (186) 
 3,458  
  (39) 
 385  
   Total debt securities 
  (1,806) 
 44,572  
  (1,300) 
 8,134  
Perpetual preferred securities 
  (53) 
 833  
  (1) 
 13  
    Total 
$  (1,859) 
 45,405  
  (1,301) 
 8,147  
146    Contractual Maturities 
The following table shows the remaining contractual maturities 
and contractual yields (taxable-equivalent basis) of debt 
securities available for sale. The remaining contractual principal 

maturities for MBS do not cons
ider prepayments. Remaining 
expected maturities will differ 
from contractual maturities 
because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations 

before the underlying
 mortgages mature.
            Remaining contractual maturity 
         Weighted-
      After one yea
r  After five years
            Total 
average 
  Within one year 
 through five years
 through ten years
  After ten years 
 (in millions) 
 amount 
yield 
  Amount 
Yield 
  Amount 
Yield
  Amount
Yield 
  Amount 
Yield 
 December 31, 2012
                                                 Securities of U.S. Treasury 
                      and federal agencies 
$  7,146  
  1.59  
% $  376  
 0.43  
% $  661  
 1.24 
% $  6,109 
 1.70  
% $  -   -  % Securities of U.S. states and  
                      political subdivisions 
  38,676  
  5.29  
   1,861  
 2.61  
   11,620  
 2.18 
   3,380 
 5.51  
   21,815  
 7.15  
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
                      Federal agencies 
  97,285  
  3.82  
   1  
 5.40  
   106  
 4.87 
   1,144 
 3.41  
   96,034  
 3.83  
  Residential 
  15,931  
  4.38  
   -   -     -   -    569 
 2.06  
   15,362  
 4.47  
  Commercial 
  19,968  
  5.33  
   -   -     78  
 3.69 
   101 
 2.84  
   19,789  
 5.35  
   Total mortgage-backed  
                        securities 
  133,184  
  4.12  
   1  
 5.40  
   184  
 4.37 
   1,814 
 2.95  
   131,185  
 4.13  
 Corporate debt securities 
  21,333  
  4.26  
   1,037  
 4.29  
   12,792  
 3.19 
   6,099 
 6.14  
   1,405  
 5.88  
 Collateralized debt 
                      obligations 
  13,188  
  1.35  
   44  
 0.96  
   1,246  
 0.71 
   7,376 
 1.01  
   4,522  
 2.08  
 Other  
  18,887  
  1.85  
   1,715  
 1.14  
   9,589  
 1.75 
   3,274 
 2.11  
   4,309  
 2.14  
    Total debt securities 
                         at fair value 
$  232,414  
  3.91  
% $  5,034  
 2.28  
% $  36,092  
 2.37 
% $  28,052 
 3.07  
% $  163,236  
 4.44  
% December 31, 2011 
                                                Securities of U.S. Treasury 
                      and federal agencies 
$  6,968  
  0.91  
% $  57  
 0.48  
% $  6,659  
 0.84 
% $  194 
 2.73  
% $  58  
 3.81  
% Securities of U.S. states and  
                      political subdivisions 
  32,593  
  4.94  
   520  
 3.02  
   11,679  
 2.90 
   2,692 
 5.31  
   17,702  
 6.28  
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
                      Federal agencies 
  96,754  
  4.39  
   1  
 6.47  
   442  
 4.02 
   1,399 
 3.07  
   94,912  
 4.42  
  Residential  
  17,836  
  4.51  
   -  
 -  
   -  
 - 
   640 
 1.88  
   17,196  
 4.61  
  Commercial 
  18,150  
  5.40  
   -  
 -  
   -  
 - 
   87 
 3.33  
   18,063  
 5.41  
   Total mortgage-backed  
                        securities 
  132,740  
  4.55  
   1  
 6.47  
   442  
 4.02 
   2,126 
 2.72  
   130,171  
 4.58  
 Corporate debt securities 
  18,404  
  4.64  
   815  
 5.57  
   11,022  
 3.40 
   4,691 
 6.67  
   1,876  
 6.38  
 Collateralized debt obligations 
  8,599  
  1.10  
   -  
 -  
   540  
 1.61 
   6,813 
 1.00  
   1,246  
 1.42  
 Other 
  19,892  
  1.89  
   506  
 2.29  
   12,963  
 1.75 
   3,149 
 2.04  
   3,274  
 2.29  
    Total debt securities 
                         at fair value 
$  219,196  
  4.12  
% $  1,899  
 3.85  
% $  43,305  
 2.36 
% $  19,665 
 3.31  
% $  154,327  
 4.72  
%                            147Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued) 
  Realized Gains and Losses 
The following table shows the gross realized gains and losses on 

sales and OTTI write-downs relate
d to the securities available-
for-sale portfolio, which includes marketable equity securities, as 

well as net realized gains and losses on nonmarketable equity 

investments (see Note 7 – Other Assets). 
            Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2010  
Gross realized gains 
$  600  
 1,305 
  645  
Gross realized losses 
  (73) 
 (70)
  (32) 
OTTI write-downs 
  (256) 
 (541)
  (692) 
 Net realized gains (losses) from 
      securities available for sale 
  271  
 694 
  (79) 
Net realized gains from private 
     equity investments 
  1,086  
 842 
  534  
  Net realized gains from debt 
       securities and equity 
investments 
$  1,357  
 1,536 
  455  
         Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
The following table shows the detail of total OTTI write-downs 

included in earnings for debt se
curities, marketable securities 
and nonmarketable equity investments. 
          Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
   2012 
 2011 
  2010  
OTTI write-downs included in earnings
     Debt securities:
       U.S. states and political subdivisions 
$  16 
 2 
  16  
  Mortgage-backed securities: 
      Federal agencies (1) 
  -  - 
  267  
   Residential  
  84 
 252 
  175  
   Commercial 
  86 
 101 
  120  
  Corporate debt securities 
  11 
 3 
  10  
  Collateralized debt obligations 
  1 
 1 
  15  
  Other debt securities 
  42 
 64 
  69  
    Total debt securities 
  240 
 423 
  672  
 Equity securities:
      Marketable equity securities: 
      Perpetual preferred securities 
  12 
 96 
  15  
   Other marketable equity securities 
  4 
 22 
  5  
    Total marketable equity securities 
  16 
 118 
  20  
     Total securities available for sale 
  256 
 541 
  692  
   Nonmarketable equity investments 
  160 
 170 
  248  
      Total OTTI write-downs included in earnings 
$  416 
 711 
  940  
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2010, amount represents OTTI recognized on federal agency MBS because we had the intent to sell
, of which $252 million related to 
securities with a fair value of $14.5 billion that were sold subsequent to December 31, 2010.  
148    Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired Debt Securities 
The following table shows the detail of OTTI write-downs on 
debt securities available for sale included in earnings and the 

related changes in OCI for the same securities. 
        Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012
2011 2010 OTTI on debt securities
     Recorded as part of gross realized losses:
      Credit-related OTTI 
$  237 
 422 
  400  
  Intent-to-sell OTTI (1) 
  3 
 1 
  272  
   Total recorded as part of gross realized losses 
  240 
 423 
  672  
 Changes to OCI for increase (decrease) in non-credit-related OTTI (2):
      U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  1 
 (1)
  (4) 
  Residential mortgage-backed securities 
  (178)
 (171)
  (326) 
  Commercial mortgage-backed securities 
  (88)
 105 
  138  
  Corporate debt securities 
  1 
 2 
  (1) 
  Collateralized debt obligations 
  (1)
 4 
  54  
  Other debt securities 
  28 
 (13)
  (33) 
   Total changes to OCI for non-credit-related OTTI 
  (237)
 (74)
  (172) 
    Total OTTI losses recorded on debt securities 
$  3 
 349 
  500  
(1) For the year ended December 31, 2010, amount includes $252 million related to securities with a fair value of $14.5 billion tha
t were sold subsequent to 
December 31, 2010.  
(2) Represents amounts recorded to OCI on debt securities in period
s where credit-related OTTI writ
e-downs have occurred. Increases
 represent initial or subsequent non-
credit-related OTTI on debt securities. Decreases represent partial to full reversal of impairment due to recoveries in the fai
r value of securities due to factors other than 
credit.  
  The following table presents a rollforward of the credit loss 
component recognized in
 earnings for debt securities we still 
own (referred to as “credit-impaired” debt securities). The credit 

loss component of the amortized 
cost represents the difference 
between the present value of expected future cash flows 

discounted using the security’s current effective interest rate and 

the amortized cost basis of the security prior to considering 

credit losses. OTTI recognized 
in earnings for credit-impaired 
debt securities is presented as a
dditions and is classified into one 
of two components based upon whether the current period is the 

first time the debt security was 
credit-impaired (initial credit impairment) or if the debt se
curity was previously credit-
impaired (subsequent credit 
impairments). The credit loss 
component is reduced if we sell, in
tend to sell or believe we will 
be required to sell previously 
credit-impaired debt securities. 
Additionally, the credit loss comp
onent is reduced if we receive 
or expect to receive cash flows in
 excess of what we previously 
expected to receive over the rema
ining life of the credit-impaired 
debt security, the security matu
res or is fully written down.  
 Changes in the credit loss comp
onent of credit-impaired debt 
securities that were recognized in earnings and related to 

securities that we do not intend to sell were:
        Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
 2012  
2011  2010 Credit loss component, beginning of year
 $  1,272  
 1,043 
  1,187  
Additions: 
     Initial credit impairments 
  55 
  87 
  122  
 Subsequent credit impairments 
  182  
 335 
  278  
  Total additions 
  237  
 422 
  400  
Reductions: 
     For securities sold 
  (194) 
 (160)
  (263) 
 For securities derecognized due to changes in consolidation status of variable interest entities 
  -   (2)
  (242) 
 Due to change in intent to sell or requirement to sell 
  -   - 
  (2) 
 For recoveries of previous credit impairments (1) 
  (26) 
 (31)
  (37) 
  Total reductions 
  (220) 
 (193)
  (544) 
Credit loss component, end of year
 $  1,289  
 1,272 
  1,043  
(1) Recoveries of previous credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows subsequent to credit loss recognition. S
uch recoveries are reflected prospectively as 
interest yield adjustments using the effective interest method. 
 149Note 5:  Securities Available for Sale 
(continued) 
   To determine credit impairme
nt losses for asset-backed 
securities (e.g., residential M
BS, commercial MBS), we estimate 
expected future cash flows of the security by estimating the 

expected future cash flows of 
the underlying collateral and 
applying those collateral cash f
lows, together with any credit 
enhancements such as subordinated interests owned by third 

parties, to the security. The expe
cted future cash flows of the 
underlying collateral are determined using the remaining 

contractual cash flows adjusted for future expected credit losses 

(which consider current delinque
ncies and nonperforming assets 
(NPAs), future expected default rates and collateral value by 
vintage and geographic region) and prepayments. The expected 

cash flows of the security are th
en discounted at the security’s 
current effective interest rate to arrive at a present value 

amount. Total credit impairment 
losses on residential MBS that 
we do not intend to sell are shown in the table below. The table 

also presents a summary of the significant inputs considered in 

determining the measurement of
 the credit loss component 
recognized in earnings for residential MBS.
                    Year ended December 31, 
($ in millions) 
  2012  
  2011 
 2010Credit impairment losses on residential MBS
       Investment grade 
$  -    5 
  5 
 Non-investment grade 
  84  
  247 
  170 
     Total credit impairment losses on residential MBS 
$  84  
  252 
  175 
          Significant inputs (non-agency – non-investment grade MBS)
     Expected remaining life of loan loss rate (1): 
      Range (2) 
 1-44 
% 0-48
  1-43
 Credit impairment loss rate distribution (3): 
       0 - 10% range 
  77  
  42 
  52 
  10 - 20% range 
  11  
  18 
  29 
  20 - 30% range 
  4  
  28 
  17 
  Greater than 30% 
  8  
  12 
  2 
 Weighted average loss rate (4) 
  8  
  12 
  9 
Current subordination levels (5): 
      Range (2) 
 0-57 
 0-25
 0-25
 Weighted average (4) 
  2  
  4 
  7 
Prepayment speed (annual CPR (6)): 
       Range (2) 
 5-29 
 3-19
 2-27
 Weighted average (4) 
  15  
  11 
   14 
                        (1) Represents future expected credit losses on each pool of loans 
underlying respective securities expressed as a percentage of th
e total current outstanding loan balance of the 
pool for each respective security. 
(2) Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual securities within each category. 
(3) Represents distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings categorized based on range of expected remaining lif
e of loan losses. For example 77% of credit 
impairment losses recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2012, had expected remaining life of loan loss assumpt
ions of 0 to 10%. 
(4) Calculated by weighting the relevant input/assumption for each individual security by current outstanding amortized cost basis 
of the security. 
(5) Represents current level of credit protection provided by tranches subordinate to our security holdings (subordination), expres
sed as a percentage of total current underlying 
loan balance. 
(6) Constant prepayment rate. 
  Total credit impairment losse
s on commercial MBS that we 
do not intend to sell were $86 million, $101 million, and 

$120 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 

2010, respectively. Significant inputs considered in determining 

the credit impairment losses for commercial MBS are the 
expected remaining life of loan loss rates and current 

subordination levels. Prepayment activity on commercial MBS 

does not significantly impact th
e determination of their credit 
impairment because, unlike re
sidential MBS, commercial MBS 
experience significantly lower prepayments due to certain 

contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower’s ability to 

prepay the mortgage. The expected remaining life of loan loss 

rates for commercial MBS with 
credit impairment losses ranged 
from 3% to 18%, 4% to 18%, and 2% to 15%, while the current 
subordination level ranges were 0% to 13%, 3% to 15%, and 3% 

to 13% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 

respectively.
 150   Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
 The following table presents total loans outstanding by portfolio 
segment and class of financing receivable. Outstanding balances 

include a total net reduction of $7.4 billion and $9.3 billion at 
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, for 

unearned income, net deferred loan fees, and unamortized 
discounts and premiums. Outstanding balances also include PCI 
loans net of any remaining purc
hase accounting adjustments. 
Information about PCI loans is presented separately in the 

“Purchased Credit-Impaired Loan
s” section of this Note.  
                    December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
 2010  
2009  2008  Commercial: 
       Commercial and industrial 
$  187,759  
 167,216 
  151,284  
 158,352  
 202,469  
 Real estate mortgage 
  106,340  
 105,975 
  99,435  
 97,527  
 94,923  
 Real estate construction 
  16,904  
 19,382 
  25,333  
 36,978  
 42,861  
 Lease financing 
  12,424  
 13,117 
  13,094  
 14,210  
 15,829  
 Foreign (1) 
  37,771 
  39,760 
  32,912  
 29,398  
 33,882  
  Total commercial 
  361,198  
 345,450 
  322,058  
 336,465  
 389,964  
Consumer: 
       Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  249,900  
 228,894 
  230,235  
 229,536  
 247,894  
 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  75,465  
 85,991 
  96,149  
 103,708  
 110,164  
 Credit card 
  24,640  
 22,836 
  22,260  
 24,003  
 23,555  
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  88,371  
 86,460 
  86,565  
 89,058  
 93,253  
  Total consumer 
  438,376  
 424,181 
  435,209  
 446,305  
 474,866  
   Total loans 
$  799,574  
 769,631 
  757,267  
 782,770  
 864,830  
            (1) Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign if the borrower’s primary 
address is outside of the United States. 
 Loan Concentrations 
Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned 

to borrowers engaged in similar activities or similar types of 
loans extended to a diverse grou
p of borrowers that would cause 
them to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. 

At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we did not have concentrations 

representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in domestic 

commercial and industrial loans an
d lease financing by industry 
or CRE loans (real esta
te mortgage and real 
estate construction) 
by state or property type. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage 

loans to borrowers in the state of California represented 

approximately 13% of total loans
 at both December 31, 2012 
and 2011. For the years ended 2012 and 2011, 2% and 3% of the 
amounts were PCI loans, respectively. These loans are generally 

diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, 

with no single area consisting of more than 3% of total loans. We 
continuously monitor changes 
in real estate values and 
underlying economic or market conditions for all geographic 

areas of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of 

our credit risk management process. 
Some of our real estate 1-4 
family first and junior lien 
mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the 

loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 18% of 

total loans at December 31, 2012, and 21% at December 31, 2011. 

Substantially all of these interest-only loans at origination were 

considered to be prime or near
 prime. We do not offer option 
adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) products, nor do we offer 
variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, 
commonly referred to within the fi
nancial services industry as 
negative amortizing mortgage loans. We acquired an option 

payment loan portf
olio (Pick-a-Pay) fr
om Wachovia at 
December 31, 2008. A majority of 
the portfolio was identified as 
PCI loans. Since the acquisition, we have reduced our exposure 
to the option payment portion of the portfolio through our 
modification efforts and lo
ss mitigation actions. At 
December 31, 2012, approximately 4 percent of total loans 

remained with the payment opti
on feature compared with 10 
percent at December 31, 2008. 

 Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally 

have a draw period of 10 years with variable interest rates and 

payment options during the draw period of (1) interest only or 

(2) 1.5% of total outstanding ba
lance. During the draw period, 
the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the 

line from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms 

including interest-only payments for a fixed period between 

three to seven years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed 

period between five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a 

line of credit generally converts to an amortizing payment loan 

with repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at 

time of conversion. At December
 31, 2012, our lines of credit 
portfolio had an outstanding balance of $84.6 billion, of which 

$2.1 billion (2%) is in its amortization period, another 

$8.2 billion, or 10%, of our total outstanding balance, will reach 

their end of draw period during 2013 through 2014, 

$29.4 billion, or 35%, during 2015 through 2017, and 

$44.9 billion, or 53%, will convert in subsequent years. This 

portfolio had unfunded credit co
mmitments of $77.8 billion at 
December 31, 2012. The lines that enter their amortization 

period may experience higher 
delinquencies and higher loss 
rates than the ones in their draw period. At December 31, 2012, 

$223 million, or 11%, of outstanding lines of credit that are in 

their amortization period were 
30 or more days past due, 
151Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
  compared with $1.9 billion, or 2%, for lines in their draw period. 
In anticipation of our customer’s reaching their contractual end 

of draw period, we have created a process to help borrowers 

effectively make the transition from interest-only to fully-

amortizing payments. 

 
Loan Purchases, Sales, and Transfers 

The following table summarizes the proceeds paid or received for 

purchases and sales of loans and transfers from loans held for 
investment to mortgages/loans held
 for sale at lower of cost or 
market. This loan activity prim
arily includes loans added in 
business combinations and asse
t acquisitions, as well as 
purchases or sales of commercial loan participation interests, 

whereby we receive or transfer a portion of a loan after 

origination. The table excludes PCI loans and loans recorded at 

fair value, including loans originat
ed for sale because their loan 
activity normally does not impact the allowance for credit losses. 
       Year ended December 31,
        2012 
   2011  
(in millions) 
Commercial
Consumer 
Total
Commercial
Consumer 
Total
Purchases (1) 
$  12,280 
 167  
 12,447  
  7,078 
 284  
 7,362  
Sales 
  (5,840)
 (840) 
 (6,680) 
  (4,705)
 (1,018) 
 (5,723) 
Transfers to MHFS/LHFS (1) 
  (84)
 (21) 
 (105) 
  (164)
 (75) 
 (239) 
          (1) The “Purchases” and “Transfers to MHFS/LHFS" categories exclude activity in government insured/guaranteed loans. As servicer, w
e are able to buy delinquent 
insured/guaranteed loans out of the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) pools. These loans have different risk char
acteristics from the rest of our consumer 
portfolio, whereby this activity does not impact the allowance for loan losses in the same manner because the loans are predomi
nantly insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). On a net basis, such purchases net of transfers 
to MHFS were $9.8 billion and $10.4 billion 
for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 Commitments to Lend 
A commitment to lend is a legally binding agreement to lend 

funds to a customer, usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, 

and for specific purposes and time periods. We generally require 
a fee to extend such commitm
ents. Certain commitments are 
subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the 

financial performance of the customer or borrowing base 

formulas that must be met before
 we are required to fund the 
commitment. We may reduce or 
cancel consumer commitments, 
including home equity lines and cr
edit card lines, in accordance 
with the contracts and applicable law. 
When we make commitments, we 
are exposed to credit risk. 
The maximum credit risk for th
ese commitments will generally 
be lower than the contractual amount because a significant 

portion of these commitments are expected to expire without 

being used by the customer. 
In addition, we manage the 
potential risk in commitments to lend by limiting the total 

amount of arrangements, both by individual customer and in 

total, by monitoring the size 
and maturity structure of these 
commitment portfolios and by 
applying the same credit 
standards as for all of our credit activities. In some cases, we 

participate a portion of our commitment to others in an 

arrangement that reduces our contractual commitment amount. 

We also originate multipurpose
 lending commitments under 
which borrowers have the option to draw on the facility in one of 
several forms, including a standb
y letter of credit. See Note 14 
for information on standby letters of credit. 

 For certain loans and commitmen
ts to lend, we may require 
collateral or 
a guarantee, based on our assessment of a 
customer’s credit risk. We may require various types of 

collateral, including commercial and consumer real estate, autos, 

other short-term liquid assets such as accounts receivable or 

inventory and long-lived asset,
 such as equipment and other 
business assets. Collateral requirements for each customer may 

vary according to the specific 
credit underwriting, including 
terms and structure of loans funded immediately or under a 
commitment to fund at a later date. 

 The contractual amount of our unfunded credit 

commitments, net of participatio
ns and net of all standby and 
commercial letters of credit i
ssued under the terms of these 
commitments, is summarized by po
rtfolio segment and class of 
financing receivable in the following table: 
        December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
 Commercial: 
    Commercial and industrial 
$  215,626  
 201,061 
  Real estate mortgage 
  6,165  
 5,419 
  Real estate construction 
  9,109  
 7,347 
  Foreign 
  8,423  
 6,083 
   Total commercial 
  239,323  
 219,910 
 Consumer: 
    Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  42,657  
 37,185 
  Real estate 1-4 family 
     junior lien mortgage 
  50,934  
 55,207 
  Credit card 
  70,960  
 65,111 
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  19,791  
 17,617 
   Total consumer 
  184,342  
 175,120 
    Total unfunded 
       credit commitments 
$  423,665  
 395,030 
 152    Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan
 losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments. Ch
anges in 
the allowance for credit losses were: 
        Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
   2012  
  2011 
  2010 
 2009  
 2008 
Balance, beginning of year
 $  19,668  
  23,463 
  25,031 
 21,711  
 5,518 
Provision for credit losses 
  7,217  
  7,899 
  15,753 
 21,668  
 15,979 
Interest income on certain impaired loans (1) 
  (315) 
  (332)
  (266)
 -  
 - 
Loan charge-offs: 
        Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial 
  (1,306) 
  (1,598)
  (2,775)
 (3,365) 
 (1,653)
  Real estate mortgage  
  (382) 
  (636)
  (1,151)
 (670) 
 (29)
  Real estate construction 
  (191) 
  (351)
  (1,189)
 (1,063) 
 (178)
  Lease financing 
  (24) 
  (38)
  (120)
 (229) 
 (65)
  Foreign 
  (111) 
  (173)
  (198)
 (237) 
 (245)
   Total commercial  
  (2,014) 
  (2,796)
  (5,433)
 (5,564) 
 (2,170)
 Consumer: 
          Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  (3,013) 
  (3,883)
  (4,900)
 (3,318) 
 (540)
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  (3,437) 
  (3,763)
  (4,934)
 (4,812) 
 (2,204)
  Credit card 
  (1,101) 
  (1,449)
  (2,396)
 (2,708) 
 (1,563)
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  (1,408) 
  (1,724)
  (2,437)
 (3,423) 
 (2,300)
   Total consumer (2) 
  (8,959) 
  (10,819)
  (14,667)
 (14,261) 
 (6,607)
    Total loan charge-offs 
  (10,973) 
  (13,615)
  (20,100)
 (19,825) 
 (8,777)
Loan recoveries: 
        Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial 
  461  
  419 
  427 
 254  
 114 
  Real estate mortgage  
  163  
  143 
  68 
 33  
 5 
  Real estate construction  
  124  
  146 
  110 
 16  
 3 
  Lease financing 
  19  
  24 
  20 
 20  
 13 
  Foreign 
  32  
  45 
  53 
 40  
 49 
   Total commercial  
  799  
  777 
  678 
 363  
 184 
 Consumer: 
          Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  157  
  405 
  522 
 185  
 37 
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  259  
  218 
  211 
 174  
 89 
  Credit card 
  185  
  251 
  218 
 180  
 147 
  Other revolving credit and installment  
  539  
  665 
  718 
 755  
 481 
   Total consumer 
  1,140  
  1,539 
  1,669 
 1,294  
 754 
    Total loan recoveries 
  1,939  
  2,316 
  2,347 
 1,657  
 938 
     Net loan charge-offs (3) 
  (9,034) 
  (11,299)
  (17,753)
 (18,168) 
 (7,839)
Allowances related to business combinations/other (4) 
  (59) 
  (63)
  698 
 (180) 
 8,053 
Balance, end of year
 $  17,477  
  19,668 
  23,463 
 25,031  
 21,711 
Components: 
         Allowance for loan losses 
$  17,060  
  19,372 
  23,022 
 24,516  
 21,013 
 Allowance for unfunded credit commitments 
  417  
  296 
  441 
 515  
 698 
  Allowance for credit losses (5) 
$  17,477  
  19,668 
  23,463 
 25,031  
 21,711 
Net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans (3) 
  1.17  
%  1.49 
  2.30 
 2.21  
 1.97 
Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans (5) 
  2.13  
  2.52 
  3.04 
 3.13  
 2.43 
Allowance for credit losses as a percentage of total loans (5) 
  2.19  
  2.56 
  3.10 
 3.20  
 2.51 
(1) Certain impaired loans with an allowance calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the loan’s effective interest rate
 over the remaining life of the loan recognize 
reductions in the allowance as interest income. 
(2) The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which req
uires consumer loans discharged in 
bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their delinquen
cy status. 
(3) For PCI loans, charge-offs are only recorded to the extent that losses exceed the purchase accounting estimates. 
(4) Includes $693 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, related to the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance on Jan
uary 1, 2010. 
(5) The allowance for credit losses includes $117 million, $231 million, $298 million and $333 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 
2010 and 2009, respectively, related to PCI 
loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans acquired from Wachovia are included in total loans net of related purchase accounting net w
rite-downs. 
153Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
   The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for credit losses by our commercial and consumer portfolio segment
s.  
      Year ended December 31,
         2012 
   2011 
(in millions) 
Commercial
 Consumer 
Total
 Commercial 
Consumer
Total
Balance, beginning of period
 $  6,358  
 13,310  
 19,668 
  8,169  
 15,294 
 23,463 
 Provision for credit losses 
  666 
  6,551  
 7,217 
  365  
 7,534 
 7,899 
 Interest income on certain impaired loans  
  (95)
  (220) 
 (315)
  (161) 
 (171)
 (332)
          Loan charge-offs 
  (2,014)
  (8,959) 
 (10,973)
  (2,796) 
 (10,819)
 (13,615)
 Loan recoveries 
  799 
  1,140  
 1,939 
  777  
 1,539 
 2,316 
  Net loan charge-offs 
  (1,215)
  (7,819) 
 (9,034)
  (2,019) 
 (9,280)
 (11,299)
 Allowance related to business combinations/other 
  -   (59) 
 (59)
  4  
 (67)
 (63)
Balance, end of period
 $  5,714  
 11,763  
 17,477 
  6,358  
 13,310 
 19,668 
            The following table disaggregates our allowance for credit losses
 and recorded investment in loa
ns by impairment methodology. 
      Allowance for credit losses 
 Recorded investment in loans 
(in millions) 
 Commercial
Consumer 
Total 
Commercial 
Consumer
Total 
December 31, 2012 
              Collectively evaluated (1) 
$  3,951 
 7,524  
 11,475  
 349,035  
 389,559 
 738,594  
Individually evaluated (2) 
  1,675 
 4,210  
 5,885  
 8,186  
 21,826 
 30,012  
PCI (3) 
  88 
 29  
 117  
 3,977  
 26,991 
 30,968  
 Total 
$  5,714 
 11,763  
 17,477  
  361,198  
 438,376 
 799,574  
December 31, 2011
          Collectively evaluated (1) 
$  4,060 
 8,699  
 12,759  
 328,117  
 376,785 
 704,902  
Individually evaluated (2) 
  2,133 
 4,545  
 6,678  
 10,566  
 17,444 
 28,010  
PCI (3) 
  165 
 66  
 231  
 6,767  
 29,952 
 36,719  
 Total 
$  6,358 
 13,310  
 19,668  
  345,450  
 424,181 
 769,631  
(1) Represents loans collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 450-20, 
Loss Contingencies
 (formerly FAS 5), and 
pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for non-impaired loans.  
(2) Represents loans individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10, 
Receivables
 (formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 
regarding allowance for impaired loans.  
(3) Represents the allowance and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC 310-30
, Receivables – Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated 
Credit Quality
 (formerly SOP 03-3) and pursuant to amendments 
by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans. 
 Credit Quality 

We monitor credit quality as in
dicated by evaluating various 
attributes and utilize such informa
tion in our evaluation of the 
appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. The following 

sections provide the credit qual
ity indicators we most closely 
monitor. See the “Purchased Cred
it-Impaired Loans” section of 
this Note for credit quality information on our PCI portfolio. 

 The majority of credit qual
ity indicators are based on 
December 31, 2012 information, 
with the exception of updated 
Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) sc
ores and updated loan-to-value 
(LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV), which are obtained at least 
quarterly. Generally, these indicators are updated in the second 

month of each quarter, with
 updates no older than 
September 30, 2012. 
COMMERCIAL CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS 
In addition to 
monitoring commercial loan concentration risk, we manage a 

consistent process for assessing 
commercial loan credit quality. 
Generally, commercial loans are 
subject to individual risk 
assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality 

ratings. Our ratings are aligned to Pass and Criticized categories. 

The Criticized category includes
 Special Mention, Substandard, 
and Doubtful categories which are
 defined by bank regulatory 
agencies. 

 The following table provides a breakdown of outstanding 

commercial loans by risk category. Of the $21.0 billion in 
criticized commercial real estate
 (CRE) loans, $4.3 billion has 
been placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net 
realizable collateral value. CRE loans have a high level of 

monitoring in place to manage 
these assets and mitigate loss 
exposure.  
154        Commercial 
Real 
Real 
         and estate 
estate 
Lease 
  (in millions) 
 industrial 
mortgage 
construction 
financing 
Foreign 
Total 
December 31, 2012
                    By risk category: 
           Pass 
$  169,293  
 87,183  
 12,224  
 11,787  
 35,380  
 315,867  
     Criticized 
  18,207  
 17,187  
 3,803  
 637  
 1,520  
 41,354  
  Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
  187,500  
 104,370  
 16,027  
 12,424  
 36,900  
 357,221  
Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value) 
  259  
 1,970  
 877  
 -   871  
 3,977  
    Total commercial loans  
$  187,759  
 106,340  
 16,904  
 12,424  
 37,771  
 361,198  
December 31, 2011
               By risk category: 
           
Pass 
$  144,980  
 80,215  
 10,865  
 12,455  
 36,567  
 285,082  
     
Criticized 
  21,837  
 22,490  
 6,772  
 662  
 1,840  
 53,601  
  Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
  166,817  
 102,705  
 17,637  
 13,117  
 38,407  
 338,683  
Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value) 
  399  
 3,270  
 1,745  
 -  
 1,353  
 6,767  
    Total commercial loans 
 $  167,216  
 105,975  
 19,382  
 13,117  
 39,760  
 345,450  
             The following table provides past due information for 
commercial loans, which we monitor as part of our credit risk 

management practices. 
  Commercial 
Real 
Real 
         and  estate 
estate 
Lease 
  (in millions) 
 industrial 
mortgage 
construction 
financing 
Foreign 
Total 
December 31, 2012
                    By delinquency status: 
         Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$  185,614  
 100,317  
 14,861  
 12,344  
 36,837  
 349,973  
 30-89 DPD and still accruing 
  417  
 503  
 136  
 53  
 12  
 1,121  
 90+ DPD and still accruing 
  47  
 228  
 27  
 -   1  
 303  
Nonaccrual loans 
  1,422  
 3,322  
 1,003  
 27  
 50  
 5,824  
  Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
  187,500  
 104,370  
 16,027  
 12,424  
 36,900  
 357,221  
Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value) 
  259  
 1,970  
 877  
 -   871  
 3,977  
   Total commercial loans 
$  187,759  
 106,340  
 16,904  
 12,424  
 37,771  
 361,198  
December 31, 2011
                    By delinquency status: 
         
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$  163,583  
 97,410  
 15,471  
 12,934  
 38,122  
 327,520  
 30-89 DPD and still accruing 
  939  
 954  
 187  
 130  
 232  
 2,442  
 90+ DPD and still accruing 
  153  
 256  
 89  
 -  
 6  
 504  
Nonaccrual loans 
  2,142  
 4,085  
 1,890  
 53  
 47  
 8,217  
  Total commercial loans (excluding PCI) 
  166,817  
 102,705  
 17,637  
 13,117  
 38,407  
 338,683  
Total commercial PCI loans (carrying value) 
  399  
 3,270  
 1,745  
 -  
 1,353  
 6,767  
   Total commercial loans 
$  167,216  
 105,975  
 19,382  
 13,117  
 39,760  
 345,450  
            CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS
  We have various 
classes of consumer loans that
 present unique risks. Loan 
delinquency, FICO credit scor
es and LTV for loan types are 
common credit quality in
dicators that we mo
nitor and utilize in 
our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit 

losses for the consumer portfolio segment. 
Many of our loss estimation techniques used for the 
allowance for credit losses rely on delinquency-based models; 
therefore, delinquency is an import
ant indicator of credit quality 
and the establishment of our allowance for credit losses. 
155Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
  The following table provides the outstanding balances of our consumer portfolio by delinquency status. 
       Real estate 
Real estate 
 Other 
       1-4 family 
1-4 family 
 revolving 
       first 
junior lien 
Credit 
credit and 
 (in millions) 
 mortgage 
mortgage 
card 
installment 
Total 
December 31, 2012
                  By delinquency status: 
          Current-29 DPD 
$  179,870  
 73,256  
 23,976  
 74,519  
 351,621  
 30-59 DPD 
  3,295  
 577  
 211  
 966  
 5,049  
 60-89 DPD 
  1,528  
 339  
 143  
 272  
 2,282  
 90-119 DPD 
  853  
 265  
 122  
 130  
 1,370  
 120-179 DPD 
  1,141  
 358  
 187  
 33  
 1,719  
 180+ DPD 
  6,655  
 518  
 1  
 5  
 7,179  
Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
  29,719  
 -   -   12,446  
 42,165  
 Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
  223,061  
 75,313  
 24,640  
 88,371  
 411,385  
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
  26,839  
 152  
 -   -   26,991  
  Total consumer loans 
$  249,900  
 75,465  
 24,640  
 88,371  
 438,376  
December 31, 2011
                  By delinquency status: 
          
Current-29 DPD 
$  156,985  
 83,033  
 22,125  
 69,712  
 331,855  
 30-59 DPD 
  4,075  
 786  
 211  
 963  
 6,035  
 60-89 DPD 
  2,012  
 501  
 154  
 275  
 2,942  
 90-119 DPD 
  1,152  
 382  
 135  
 127  
 1,796  
 120-179 DPD 
  1,704  
 537  
 211  
 33  
 2,485  
 180+ DPD 
  6,665  
 546  
 -  
 4  
 7,215  
Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
  26,555 
  -  
 -  
 15,346  
 41,901  
 Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
  199,148 
  85,785  
 22,836  
 86,460  
 394,229  
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
  29,746 
  206  
 -  
 -  
 29,952  
  Total consumer loans 
$  228,894  
 85,991  
 22,836  
 86,460  
 424,181  
(1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans whose repaymen
ts are predominantly guaranteed by 
agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP). Loans insured/g
uaranteed by the FHA/VA and 90+ DPD 
totaled $20.2 billion at December 31, 2012, compared with $18.5 billion at December 31, 2011. Student loans 90+ DPD totaled $1.
1 billion at December 31, 2012, 
compared with $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. 
  Of the $10.3 billion of loans not government 
insured/guaranteed that are 90 days or more past due at 

December 31, 2012, $1.1 billion
 was accruing, compared with 
$11.5 billion past due and $1.5 billion accruing at 

December 31, 2011.  
 Real estate 1-4 family first mo
rtgage loans 180 
days or more 
past due totaled $6.7 billion, or
 3.0% of total first mortgages 
(excluding PCI), at December 31, 2012, compared with 

$6.7 billion, or 3.3%, at December 31, 2011. 
 The following table provides a breakdown of our consumer 
portfolio by updated FICO. We 
obtain FICO scores at loan 
origination and the scores are updated at least quarterly. The 

majority of our portfolio is underwritten with a FICO score of 

680 and above. FICO is not available for certain loan types and 

may not be obtained if we deem
 it unnecessary due to strong 
collateral and other borrower attributes, primarily securities-

based margin loans of $5.4 bill
ion at December 31, 2012, and 
$5.0 billion at December 31, 2011.  
156          Real estate 
Real estate 
 Other 
       1-4 family 
1-4 family 
 revolving 
       first 
junior lien 
Credit 
credit and 
 (in millions) 
 mortgage 
mortgage 
card 
installment 
Total 
December 31, 2012
                  By updated FICO: 
          < 600 
$  17,662  
 6,122  
 2,314  
 9,091  
 35,189  
 600-639 
  10,208  
 3,660  
 1,961  
 6,403  
 22,232  
 640-679 
  15,764  
 6,574  
 3,772  
 10,153  
 36,263  
 680-719 
  24,725  
 11,361  
 4,990  
 11,640  
 52,716  
 720-759 
  31,502  
 15,992  
 5,114  
 10,729  
 63,337  
 760-799 
  63,946  
 21,874  
 4,109  
 12,371  
 102,300  
 800+ 
  26,044  
 8,526  
 2,223  
 6,355  
 43,148  
No FICO available 
  3,491  
 1,204  
 157  
 3,780  
 8,632  
FICO not required 
  -   -   -   5,403  
 5,403  
Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
  29,719  
 -   -   12,446  
 42,165  
  Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
  223,061  
 75,313  
 24,640  
 88,371  
 411,385  
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
  26,839  
 152  
 -   -   26,991  
    Total consumer loans  
$  249,900  
 75,465  
 24,640  
 88,371  
 438,376  
December 31, 2011
                  By updated FICO: 
          
< 600 
$  21,604  
 7,428  
 2,323  
 8,921  
 40,276  
 600-639 
  10,978  
 4,086  
 1,787  
 6,222  
 23,073  
 640-679 
  15,563  
 7,187  
 3,383  
 9,350  
 35,483  
 680-719 
  23,622  
 12,497  
 4,697  
 10,465  
 51,281  
 720-759 
  27,417  
 17,574  
 4,760  
 9,936  
 59,687  
 760-799 
  47,337  
 24,979  
 3,517  
 11,163  
 86,996  
 800+ 
  21,381  
 10,247  
 1,969  
 5,674  
 39,271  
No FICO available 
  4,691  
 1,787  
 400  
 4,393  
 11,271  
FICO not required 
  -  
 -  
 -  
 4,990  
 4,990  
Government insured/guaranteed loans (1) 
  26,555 
  -  
 -  
 15,346  
 41,901  
  Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
  199,148 
  85,785  
 22,836  
 86,460  
 394,229  
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
  29,746 
  206  
 -  
 -  
 29,952  
    Total consumer loans  
$  228,894  
 85,991  
 22,836  
 86,460  
 424,181  
(1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans whose repaymen
ts are predominantly guaranteed by 
agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under FFELP. 
  LTV refers to the ratio comparing the loan’s unpaid principal 
balance to the property’s collateral value. CLTV refers to the 

combination of first mortgage
 and junior lien mortgage 
(including unused line amounts for credit line products) ratios. 

LTVs and CLTVs are updated quarterly using a cascade approach 

which first uses values provided
 by automated valuation models 
(AVMs) for the property. If an AVM is not available, then the 

value is estimated using the origin
al appraised value adjusted by 
the change in Home Price Index 
(HPI) for the property location. 
If an HPI is not available, the original appraised value is used. 

The HPI value is normally the only method considered for high 

value properties, generally with an original value of $1 million or 

more, as the AVM values have proven less accurate for these 

properties. 
 The following table shows the most updated LTV and CLTV 
distribution of the real estate 
1-4 family first and junior lien 
mortgage loan portfolios. In recent years, the residential real 

estate markets experienced significant declines in property 

values and several markets, particularly California and Florida 

have experienced more significan
t declines than the national 
decline. These trends are consider
ed in the way that we monitor 
credit risk and establish our allowance for credit losses. LTV 

does not necessarily reflect the 
likelihood of performance of a 
given loan, but does provide an indi
cation of collateral value. In 
the event of a default, any loss should be limited to the portion of 
the loan amount in excess of the net realizable value of the 

underlying real estate collateral value. Certain loans do not have 

an LTV or CLTV primarily due to
 industry data availability and 
portfolios acquired from or serviced by other institutions. 
157Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
        December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2011 
     Real estate
 Real estate 
 Real estate 
Real estate 
      1-4 family
 1-4 family 
 1-4 family 
1-4 family 
       first 
junior lien 
 first 
junior lien 
       mortgage
 mortgage 
 mortgage 
mortgage 
 (in millions) 
 by LTV
 by CLTV 
Total
 by LTV 
by CLTV 
Total 
By LTV/CLTV: 
           
0-60% 
$  56,247  
 12,170  
 68,417 
  46,476  
 12,694  
 59,170  
 60.01-80% 
  69,759 
  15,168  
 84,927 
  46,831  
 15,722  
 62,553  
 80.01-100% 
  34,830 
  18,038  
 52,868 
  36,764  
 20,290  
 57,054  
 100.01-120% (1) 
  17,004 
  13,576  
 30,580 
  21,116  
 15,829  
 36,945  
 > 120% (1) 
  13,529 
  14,610  
 28,139 
  18,608  
 18,626  
 37,234  
No LTV/CLTV available 
  1,973 
  1,751  
 3,724 
  2,798  
 2,624  
 5,422  
Government insured/guaranteed loans (2) 
  29,719 
  -   29,719 
  26,555  
 -  
 26,555  
  Total consumer loans (excluding PCI) 
  223,061 
  75,313  
 298,374 
  199,148  
 85,785  
 284,933  
Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
  26,839 
  152  
 26,991 
  29,746  
 206  
 29,952  
    Total consumer loans 
$  249,900  
 75,465  
 325,365 
  228,894  
 85,991  
 314,885  
(1) Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally
 be limited to only the amount in excess of 
100% LTV/CLTV. 
(2) Represents loans whose repayments are predominan
tly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
  NONACCRUAL LOANS
  The following table provides loans on 
nonaccrual status. PCI loans are excluded from this table due to 

the existence of the accretable yield. 
       December 31,
(in millions) 
   2012 
 2011 
 Commercial: 
    Commercial and industrial 
$  1,422 
 2,142 
  Real estate mortgage 
  3,322 
 4,085 
  Real estate construction 
  1,003 
 1,890 
  Lease financing 
  27 
 53 
  Foreign 
  50 
 47 
   Total commercial (1) 
  5,824 
 8,217 
 Consumer: 
    Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2) 
  11,455 
 10,913 
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage (3) 
 2,922 
 1,975 
  Other revolving credit and installment 
  285 
 199 
   Total consumer (4) 
  14,662 
 13,087 
    Total nonaccrual loans 
       (excluding PCI) 
$  20,486 
 21,304 
 (1) Includes LHFS of $16 million and $25 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. 
(2) Includes MHFS of $336 million and $301 million at December 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively. 
(3) Includes $960 million at December 31, 2012, resulting from the Interagency 
Guidance issued in 2012, which requires performing junior liens to be classified 
as nonaccrual if the related first mortgage is nonaccruing. 
(4) Includes $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012, consisting of $1.4 billion of first 
mortgages, $205 million of junior liens and $140 million of auto and other loans, 
resulting from the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires 
performing consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be placed on nonaccrual 

status and written down to net realizable collateral value, regardless of their 

delinquency status. 
158    LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING
  Certain loans 90 days or
 more past due as to 
interest or principal 
are still accruing, because they 
are (1) well-secured and in the 
process of collection or (2) real 
estate 1-4 family mortgage loans 
or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being 

classified as nonaccrua
l until later delinquency, usually 120 days 
past due. PCI loans of $6.0 billion at December 31, 2012, and 
$8.7 billion at December 31, 2011, are not included in these past 

due and still accruing loans even 
though they are 90 days or 
more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to 

be accruing due to the existence 
of the accretable yield and not 
based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. 

Loans 90 days or more past 
due and still accruing whose 
repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA for mortgages and the U.S. Department of 

Education for student loans under the FFELP were $21.8 billion 
at December 31, 2012, up
 from $20.5 billion at 
December 31, 2011. 
The following table shows non-PCI loans 90 days or more 
past due and still accruing by class for loans not government 

insured/guaranteed.  
       December 31, 
(in millions) 
 2012 
  2011 
 Loan 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
   Total (excluding PCI): 
$ 23,245  
22,569   Less:  FHA insured/guaranteed by the VA (1)(2) 
20,745 
 19,240   Less:  Student loans guaranteed 
     under the FFELP (3) 
 1,065 
 1,281     Total, not government 
        insured/guaranteed
 $ 1,435  
2,048  By segment and class, not government  
    insured/guaranteed: 
  Commercial: 
    Commercial and industrial 
$ 47  153   Real estate mortgage 
 228  
256   Real estate construction 
 27  89   Foreign 
 1  6    Total commercial 
 303  
504  Consumer: 
    Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (2) 
 564  
781   Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage (2)(4) 
133  279   Credit card 
 310  
346   Other revolving credit and installment 
 125  
138    Total consumer 
 1,132  
1,544     Total, not government 
        insured/guaranteed
 $ 1,435  
2,048  (1) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or 
guaranteed by the VA. 
(2) Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still 
accruing. 
(3) Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies 
on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP. 
(4) The balance at December 31, 2012, includes the impact from the transfer of 
certain 1-4 family junior lien mortgages to nonaccrual loans in accordance with 
the Interagency Guidance issued on January 31, 2012.   
159Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
  IMPAIRED LOANS
  The table below summarizes key information 
for impaired loans. Our impaired loans predominantly include 

loans on nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment 

and loans modified in a TDR, wh
ether on accrua
l or nonaccrual 
status. These impaired loans generally have estimated losses 

which are included in the allowance for credit losses. Impaired 
loans exclude PCI loans. Based 
on clarifying guidance from the 
Securities and Exchange Comm
ission (SEC) received in 
December 2011, we now classify 
trial modifications as TDRs at 
the beginning of the trial period
. The table below includes trial 
modifications that totaled $705 
million at December 31, 2012, 
and $651 million at December 31, 2011.  
        Recorded investment
         Impaired loans
       Unpaid
with related
Related 
      principal 
Impaired
allowance for
allowance for 
(in millions) 
 balance 
loans
credit losses
credit losses 
December 31, 2012
            Commercial: 
           Commercial and industrial 
$  3,331  
 2,086 
 2,086 
 353  
     Real estate mortgage 
  5,766  
 4,673 
 4,537 
 1,025  
     Real estate construction 
  1,975  
 1,345 
 1,345 
 276  
 Lease financing 
  54  
 39 
 39 
 11  
     Foreign 
  109  
 43 
 43 
 9  
       Total commercial (1) 
  11,235  
 8,186 
 8,050 
 1,674  
Consumer: 
          Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  21,293  
 18,472 
 15,224 
 3,074  
     Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  2,855  
 2,483 
 2,070 
 859  
 Credit card 
  531  
 531 
 531 
 244  
     Other revolving credit and installment 
  341  
 340 
 340 
 33  
       Total consumer 
  25,020  
 21,826 
 18,165 
 4,210  
        Total impaired loans (excluding PCI) 
$  36,255  
 30,012 
 26,215 
 5,884  
December 31, 2011
          Commercial:  
          
Commercial and industrial 
$  7,191  
 3,072 
 3,018 
 501  
     
Real estate mortgage 
  7,490  
 5,114 
 4,637 
 1,133  
     
Real estate construction 
  4,733  
 2,281 
 2,281 
 470  
 Lease financing 
  127  
 68 
 68 
 21  
     
Foreign 
  185  
 31 
 31 
 8  
      
 Total commercial (1) 
  19,726  
 10,566 
 10,035 
 2,133  
Consumer: 
          
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  16,494  
 14,486 
 13,909 
 3,380  
     
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  2,232  
 2,079 
 2,079 
 784  
 Credit card 
  593  
 593 
 593 
 339  
     
Other revolving credit and installment 
  287  
 286 
 274 
 42  
      
 Total consumer 
  19,606  
 17,444 
 16,855 
 4,545  
      
  Total impaired loans (excluding PCI) 
$  39,332  
 28,010 
 26,890 
 6,678  
(1) The unpaid principal balance for commercial loans at December 31, 2011, includes $2.5 billion of commercial and industrial, $1.
1 billion of real estate mortgage, $1.8 billion 
of real estate construction and $157 million of lease financing 
and foreign loans that have been fully charged off and therefor
e have no recorded investment. The unpaid 
principal balance for loans with no recorded investment has been
 excluded from the amounts disclosed at December 31, 2012.   
 160     Commitments to lend addition
al funds on loans whose terms 
have been modified in a TDR amounted to $421 million at 

December 31, 2012, and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011.  
 The following tables provide the average recorded investment 
in impaired loans and the amount 
of interest income recognized 
on impaired loans by portfolio segment and class.  
       Year ended December 31,
        2012  
    2011  
    2010  
      Average
Recognized 
 Average
Recognized 
 Average
Recognized 
      recordedinterest 
 recorded
interest 
 recorded
interest 
(in millions) 
 investment
income 
 investment
income 
 investment
income 
Commercial:  
              
Commercial and industrial 
$  2,281 
 111  
  3,282 
 105  
  4,098 
 64  
     
Real estate mortgage 
  4,821 
 119  
  5,308 
 80  
  4,598 
 41  
     
Real estate construction 
  1,818 
 61  
  2,481 
 70  
  3,203 
 28  
 Lease financing 
  57 
 1  
  80 
 -  
  166 
 -  
     
Foreign 
  36 
 1  
  29 
 -  
  47 
 -  
      
 Total commercial 
  9,013 
 293  
  11,180 
 255  
  12,112 
 133  
Consumer: 
          Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  15,750 
 803  
  13,592 
 700  
  9,221 
 494  
 Real estate 1-4 family 
              
 junior lien mortgage 
  2,193 
 80  
  1,962 
 76  
  1,443 
 55  
 Credit card 
  572 
 63  
  594 
 21  
  360 
 13  
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  324 
 44  
  270 
 27  
  132 
 3  
      
 Total consumer 
  18,839 
 990  
  16,418 
 824  
  11,156 
 565  
      
  Total impaired loans (excluding PCI) 
$  27,852 
 1,283  
$  27,598 
 1,079  
$  23,268 
 698  
                    Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2010 
Average recorded investment in impaired loans
 $  27,852 
 27,598 
  23,268 
Interest income:
   Cash basis of accounting 
$  316 
 180 
  250 
Other (1) 
  967 
 899 
  448 
      
Total interest income
 $  1,283 
 1,079 
  698 
(1) Includes interest recognized on accruing TDRs, interest recognized related to certain impaired loans which have an allowance ca
lculated using discounting, and amortization 
of purchase accounting adjustments related to certain impaired loans. See footnote 1 to the table of changes in the allowance f
or credit losses. 
 
 TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)
  When, for 
economic or legal reasons related to a borrower’s financial 

difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant 

period of time to a borrower that we would not otherwise 

consider, the related loan is cl
assified as a TDR. We do not 
consider any loans modified through a loan resolution such as 

foreclosure or short sale to be a TDR. 

 We may require some borrowers experiencing financial 

difficulty to make trial 
payments generally for a period of three 
to four months, according to the terms of a planned permanent 

modification, to determine if 
they can perform according to 
those terms. Based on clarifying guidance from the SEC in 

December 2011, these arrangements represent trial 

modifications, which we classify
 and account for as TDRs. While 
loans are in trial payment programs, their original terms are not 

considered modified and they 
continue to advance through 
delinquency status and accrue inte
rest according to their original 
terms. The planned modifications for these arrangements 

predominantly involve interest rate reductions or other interest 

rate concessions, however, the exact concession type and 

resulting financial effect are usua
lly not finalized and do not take 
effect until the loan is permanently modified. The trial period 
terms are developed in accordance with our proprietary 

programs or the U.S. Treasury’s Making Homes Affordable 

programs for real estate 1-4 family first lien (i.e. Home 

Affordable Modification Program – HAMP) and junior lien (i.e. 

Second Lien Modification Pro
gram – 2MP) mortgage loans. 
 At December 31, 2012, the loans 
in trial modification period 
were $402 million under HAMP
, $45 million under 2MP and 
$258 million under proprietary programs, compared with 

$421 million, $46 million and $184 million at 

December 31, 2011, respectively. Trial modifications with a 

recorded investment of $429 mi
llion at December 31, 2012, and 
$310 million at December 31, 2011, were accruing loans and 

$276 million and $341 million, 
respectively, were nonaccruing 
loans. Our recent experience is that most of the mortgages that 

enter a trial payment period program are successful in 

completing the program requirements and are then permanently 

modified at the end of the trial 
period. As previously discussed, 
our allowance process considers the impact of those 

modifications that are probable to
 occur including the associated 
credit cost and rela
ted re-default risk. 
161Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
   The following table summarizes our TDR modifications for 
the periods presented by primary 
modification type and includes 
the financial effects of these modifications. 
         Primary modification type (1) 
 Financial effects of modifications 
            Weighted
 Recorded 
        Other 
   average
 investment 
       Interest
 interest 
   interest
 related to 
       rate 
rate 
  Charge- 
rate
 interest rate 
(in millions) 
Principal (2) 
reduction 
concessions (3) 
Total 
 offs (4) 
reduction
 reduction (5) 
Year ended December 31, 2012
          Commercial:
             Commercial and industrial 
$  11  
 35  
 1,370  
 1,416  
  40  
 1.60 
% $  38  
 Real estate mortgage 
  47  
 219  
 1,907  
 2,173  
  12  
 1.57 
   226  
 Real estate construction 
  12  
 19  
 531  
 562  
  10  
 1.69 
   19  
 Lease financing 
  -   -   4  
 4  
  -   -    -   Foreign 
  -   -   19  
 19  
  -   -    -    Total commercial 
  70  
 273  
 3,831  
 4,174  
  62  
 1.58 
   283  
Consumer: 
            Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  1,371  
 1,302  
 5,822  
 8,495  
  547  
 3.00 
   2,379  
 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  79  
 244  
 756  
 1,079  
  512  
 3.70 
   313  
 Credit card 
  -   241  
 -   241  
  -   10.85 
   241  
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  5  
 55  
 287  
 347  
  55  
 6.82 
   58  
 Trial modifications (6) 
  -   -   666  
 666  
  -   -    -    Total consumer 
  1,455  
 1,842  
 7,531  
 10,828  
  1,114  
 3.78 
   2,991  
   Total 
$  1,525  
 2,115  
 11,362  
 15,002  
  1,176  
 3.59 
% $  3,274  
Year ended December 31, 2011  
         Commercial: 
            Commercial and industrial 
$  166  
 64  
 2,412  
 2,642  
  84  
 3.13 
% $  69  
 Real estate mortgage 
  113  
 146  
 1,894  
 2,153  
  24  
 1.46 
   160  
 Real estate construction 
  29  
 114  
 421  
 564  
  26  
 0.81 
   125  
 Lease financing 
  -  
 -  
 57  
 57  
  -   -    -  
 Foreign 
  -  
 -  
 22  
 22  
  -   -    -  
  Total commercial 
  308  
 324  
 4,806  
 5,438  
  134  
 1.55 
   354  
Consumer: 
            Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  1,629  
 1,908  
 934  
 4,471  
  293  
 3.27 
   3,322  
 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  98  
 559  
 197  
 854  
  28  
 4.34 
   654  
 Credit card 
  -  
 336  
 -  
 336  
  2  
 10.77 
   260  
 Other revolving credit and installment 
  74  
 119  
 7  
 200  
  24  
 6.36 
   181  
 Trial modifications (6)
   -   -   651   651  
  -   -    -    Total consumer 
  1,801  
 2,922  
 1,789  
 6,512  
  347  
 4.00 
   4,417  
   Total 
$  2,109  
 3,246  
 6,595  
 11,950  
  481  
 3.82 
% $  4,771  
                (1) Amounts represent the recorded investment in loans after recognizin
g the effects of the TDR, if any. TDRs with multiple types o
f concessions are presented only once in the 
table in the first category type based on the order presented.  
(2) 
Principal modifications include principal forgiveness at the time of the modification, contingent principal forgiveness granted
 over the life of the loan based on borrower 
performance, and principal that has been legally separated and deferred to the end of the loan, with a zero percent contractual
 interest rate. 
(3) 
Other interest rate concessions include loans modified to an interest rate that is not commensurate with the credit risk, even 
though the rate may have been increased. 
These modifications would include renewals, term extensions and other interest adjustments, but exclude modifications that also
 forgive principal and/or reduce the interest 
rate. Year ended December 31, 2012, includes $5.2 billion of consumer loans, consisting of $4.5 billion of first mortgages, $50
6 million of junior liens and $140 million of 
auto and other loans, resulting from the O
CC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires consumer loans discharged in
 bankruptcy to be classified as TDRs, as well 
as written down to net realizable collateral value. 
(4) 
Charge-offs include write-downs of the investment in the loan in the period it is contractually modified. The amount of charge-
off will differ from the modification terms if the 
loan has been charged down prior to the modification based on our policies. In addition, there may be cases where we have a cha
rge-off/down with no legal principal 
modification. Modifications resulted in legally forgiving principal (actual, contingent or deferred) of $495 million and $577 m
illion for years ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively. Year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million in charge-offs on consumer loans resulting from the OCC
 guidance discussed above. 
(5) 
Reflects the effect of reduced interest rates to loans with principal or interest rate reduction primary modification type. 
(6) 
Trial modifications are granted a delay in payments due under the original terms during the trial payment period. However, thes
e loans continue to advance through 
delinquency status and accrue interest according to their original terms. Any subsequent permanent modification generally inclu
des interest rate related concessions; 
however, the exact concession type and resulting financial effect are usually not known until the loan is permanently modified.
 Trial modifications for the period are 
presented net of any trial modifications that successfully complete the program requirements. Such successful modifications are
 included as an addition to the appropriate 
loan category in the period they successfully complete the program requirements. 
  162     The table below summarizes permanent modification TDRs 
that have defaulted in the curren
t period within 12 months of 
their permanent modification date. We are reporting these 

defaulted TDRs based on a payment 
default definition of 90 days 
past due for the commercial portf
olio segment and 60 days past 
due for the consumer portfolio segment.  
  
 
 
       Recorded 
     investment of defaults
      Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
 Commercial: 
    Commercial and industrial 
$  379 
  216 
  Real estate mortgage 
  579 
  331 
  Real estate construction 
  261 
  69 
  Lease financing 
  1 
  1 
  Foreign 
  -   1 
   Total commercial 
  1,220 
  618 
 Consumer: 
    Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  567 
  1,110 
  Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
 55 
  137 
  Credit card 
  94 
  156 
  Other revolving credit and installment 
 56 
  113 
   Total consumer 
  772 
  1,516 
    Total 
$  1,992 
  2,134 
    Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 
Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired from Wachovia 
on December 31, 2008. The following table presents PCI loans 

net of any remaining purchase 
accounting adjustments. Real 
estate 1-4 family first mortgage PCI loans are predominantly 

Pick-a-Pay loans. 
       December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2010 
 2009  
 2008 
Commercial:  
           
Commercial and industrial 
$  259  
 399 
  718 
 1,911  
 4,580 
     
Real estate mortgage 
  1,970  
 3,270 
  2,855 
 4,137  
 5,803 
     
Real estate construction 
  877  
 1,745 
  2,949 
 5,207  
 6,462 
     
Foreign 
  871  
 1,353 
  1,413 
 1,733  
 1,859 
      
 Total commercial 
  3,977  
 6,767 
  7,935 
 12,988  
 18,704 
Consumer: 
           
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  26,839  
 29,746 
  33,245 
 38,386  
 39,214 
     
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  152  
 206 
  250 
 331  
 728 
     
Other revolving credit and installment 
  -   - 
  - 
 -  
 151 
      
 Total consumer 
  26,991  
 29,952 
  33,495 
 38,717  
 40,093 
      
  Total PCI loans (carrying value) 
$  30,968  
 36,719 
  41,430 
 51,705  
 58,797 
Total PCI loans (unpaid principal balance) 
$  45,174  
 55,312 
  64,331 
 83,615  
 98,182 
           163Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
  ACCRETABLE YIELD
  The excess of cash flows expected to be 
collected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the 

accretable yield and is recognized
 in interest income using an 
effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or 

pools of loans. The accretable yield is affected by: 
 changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans – 
expected future cash flows are based on the variable rates in 

effect at the time of the regu
lar evaluations of cash flows 
expected to be collected; 
 changes in prepayment assumptions – prepayments affect 
the estimated life of PCI loans which may change the 

amount of interest income, an
d possibly principal, expected 
to be collected; and 
 changes in the expected principal and interest payments 
over the estimated life – update
s to expected cash flows are 
driven by the credit outlook and actions taken with 

borrowers. Changes in expected future cash flows from loan 

modifications are included in 
the regular evaluations of cash 
flows expected to be collected. 
During 2012, our expectation of cash flows was favorably 
impacted by lower expected defa
ults and losses as a result of 
observed strengthening in housing prices and the impact of our 

modification efforts. These factors favorably impacted 

probability of default and loss se
verity, reducing our expected 
loss on PCI loans, primarily 
Pick-a-Pay, and increasing the 
estimated weighted-average remainin
g life of the PCI portfolios 
and resulting expected interest to
 be collected. Accordingly, we 
increased accretable yield for $1.1 billion of transfers out of 

nonaccretable difference for the in
crease in principal expected to 
be collected, and by $3.6 billion
 for the increase in interest 
income expected to be collected. 
The change in the accretable 
yield related to PCI loans is 
presented in the following table.  
        Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
  2010 
 2009  
Total, beginning of year 
$  15,961  
 16,714 
  14,559 
 10,447  
 Addition of accretable yield due to acquisitions 
  3  
 128 
  - 
 -  
 Accretion into interest income (1) 
  (2,152) 
 (2,206)
  (2,392)
 (2,601) 
 Accretion into noninterest income due to sales (2) 
  (5) 
 (189)
  (43)
 (5) 
 Reclassification from nonaccretable difference for loans with improving credit-related cash flows 
  1,141  
 373 
  3,399 
 441  
 Changes in expected cash flows that do not affect nonaccretable difference (3) 
  3,600  
 1,141 
  1,191 
 6,277  
Total, end of year 
$  18,548  
 15,961 
  16,714 
 14,559  
(1) Includes accretable yield released as a result of settlements with borrowers, which is included in interest income. 
(2) Includes accretable yield released as a result of sales to third parties, which is included in noninterest income. 
(3) Represents changes in cash flows expected to be collected due to the impact of modifications, changes in prepayment assumptions
 and changes in interest rates on variable 
rate PCI loans. 
164    PCI ALLOWANCE  
Based on our regular evaluation of estimates 
of cash flows expected to be 
collected, we may establish an 
allowance for a PCI loan or pool of loans, with a charge to 

income though the provision for losses. The following table 

summarizes the changes in allowance for PCI loan losses. 
  
 
        Other 
 (in millions) 
 Commercial 
Pick-a-Pay 
consumer 
Total 
Balance, December 31, 2008 
$  -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
  850  
 -  
 3  
 853  
 Charge-offs  
  (520) 
 -  
 -  
 (520) 
Balance, December 31, 2009 
  330  
 -  
 3  
 333  
 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
  712  
 -  
 59  
 771  
 Charge-offs  
  (776) 
 -  
 (30) 
 (806) 
Balance, December 31, 2010 
  266  
 -  
 32  
 298  
 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
  106  
 -  
 54  
 160  
 Charge-offs  
  (207) 
 -  
 (20) 
 (227) 
Balance, December 31, 2011
   165  
 -   66  
 231  
 Provision for losses due to credit deterioration 
  25  
 -   7  
 32  
 Charge-offs  
  (102) 
 -   (44) 
 (146) 
Balance, December 31, 2012 
$  88  
 -   29  
 117  
        COMMERCIAL PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS  
The following 
table provides a breakdown of commercial PCI loans by risk category. 
     Commercial 
Real
Real 
       and estate
estate 
 (in millions) 
 industrial 
mortgage
construction 
Foreign 
Total
December 31, 2012
                By risk category: 
          Pass 
$  95  
 341 
 207  
 255  
 898 
     Criticized 
  164  
 1,629 
 670  
 616  
 3,079 
   Total commercial PCI loans 
$  259  
 1,970 
 877  
 871  
 3,977 
December 31, 2011 
            By risk category: 
          
Pass 
$  191  
 640 
 321  
 -  
 1,152 
     
Criticized 
  208  
 2,630 
 1,424  
 1,353  
 5,615 
   Total commercial PCI loans 
$  399  
 3,270 
 1,745  
 1,353  
 6,767 
           165Note 6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 
(continued) 
    The following table provides past due information for commercial PCI loans. 
  Commercial 
Real 
Real 
        and  estate 
estate 
  (in millions) 
 industrial 
mortgage 
construction 
Foreign 
Total 
December 31, 2012
                  By delinquency status: 
        Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$  235  
 1,804  
 699  
 704  
 3,442  
 30-89 DPD and still accruing 
  1  
 26  
 51  
 -   78  
 90+ DPD and still accruing 
  23  
 140  
 127  
 167  
 457  
  Total commercial PCI loans 
$  259  
 1,970  
 877  
 871  
 3,977  
December 31, 2011
                  By delinquency status: 
        
Current-29 DPD and still accruing 
$  359  
 2,867  
 1,206  
 1,178  
 5,610  
 30-89 DPD and still accruing 
  22  
 178  
 72  
 -  
 272  
 90+ DPD and still accruing 
  18  
 225  
 467  
 175  
 885  
  Total commercial PCI loans 
$  399  
 3,270  
 1,745  
 1,353  
 6,767  
           CONSUMER PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS
  Our consumer 
PCI loans were aggregated into several pools of loans at 

acquisition. Below, we have prov
ided credit quality indicators 
based on the unpaid principa
l balance (adjusted for write-
downs) of the individual loans in
cluded in the pool, but we have 
not allocated the remaining purc
hase accounting adjustments, 
which were established at a pool level. The following table 

provides the delinquency status of consumer PCI loans. 
       December 31, 2012
 December 31, 2011
       Real estate
Real estate 
 Real estate
Real estate 
       1-4 family
1-4 family 
 1-4 family
1-4 family 
       firs
tjunior lien 
 first
junior lien 
 (in millions) 
 mortgage
mortgage 
Total
 mortgage
mortgage 
Total 
By delinquency status: 
             
Current-29 DPD 
$  22,304 
 198  
 22,502 
  25,693 
 268  
 25,961  
 30-59 DPD 
  2,587 
 11  
 2,598 
  3,272 
 20  
 3,292  
 60-89 DPD 
  1,361 
 7  
 1,368 
  1,433 
 9  
 1,442  
 90-119 DPD 
  650 
 6  
 656 
  791 
 8  
 799  
 120-179 DPD 
  804 
 7  
 811 
  1,169 
 10  
 1,179  
 180+ DPD 
  5,356 
 116  
 5,472 
  5,921 
 150  
 6,071  
   Total consumer PCI loans (adjusted unpaid principal balance) 
$  33,062 
 345  
 33,407 
  38,279 
 465  
 38,744  
  Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
$  26,839 
 152  
 26,991 
  29,746 
 206  
 29,952  
             166     The following table provides FICO scores for consumer PCI loans. 
       December 31, 2012 
 December 31, 2011 
      Real estate
 Real estate
  Real estate 
Real estate
       1-4 family
 1-4 family
  1-4 family 
1-4 family
       first 
junior lien
  first 
junior lien
 (in millions) 
 mortgage
 mortgage
Total 
 mortgage 
mortgage
Total 
By FICO: 
        < 600
 $  13,163  
 144 
 13,307  
  17,169 
  210 
 17,379  
 600-639
   6,673  
 68 
 6,741  
  7,489 
  83 
 7,572  
 640-679
   6,602  
 73 
 6,675  
  6,646 
  89 
 6,735  
 680-719
   3,635  
 39 
 3,674  
  3,698 
  47 
 3,745  
 720-759
   1,757  
 11 
 1,768  
  1,875 
  14 
 1,889  
 760-799
   874  
 6 
 880  
  903 
  6 
 909  
 800+   202  
 1 
 203  
  215 
  2 
 217  
No FICO available 
  156  
 3 
 159  
  284 
  14 
 298  
   Total consumer PCI loans (adjusted unpaid principal balance) 
$  33,062  
 345 
 33,407  
  38,279 
  465 
 38,744  
  Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
$  26,839  
 152 
 26,991  
  29,746 
  206 
 29,952  
              The following table shows the distribution of consumer PCI 
 loans by LTV for real estate 1-4 family first mortgages and by 
 CLTV for real estate 1-4 fa
mily junior lien mortgages. 
       December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2011
      Real estate
 Real estate
  Real estate 
Real estate
       1-4 family
 1-4 family
  1-4 family 
1-4 family
       first 
junior lien
  first 
junior lien
       mortgage
 mortgage
  mortgage 
mortgage
 (in millions) 
 by LTV
 by CLTV
Total 
 by LTV 
by CLTV
Total 
By LTV/CLTV: 
            
 0-60% 
$  1,374  
 21 
 1,395  
  1,243 
  25 
 1,268  
 60.01-80% 
  4,119  
 30 
 4,149  
  3,806 
  49 
 3,855  
 80.01-100% 
  9,576  
 61 
 9,637  
  9,341 
  63 
 9,404  
 100.01-120% (1) 
  8,084  
 93 
 8,177  
  9,471 
  79 
 9,550  
 > 120% (1) 
  9,889  
 138 
 10,027  
  14,318 
  246 
 14,564  
No LTV/CLTV available 
  20  
 2 
 22  
  100 
  3 
 103  
   Total consumer PCI loans (adjusted unpaid principal balance) 
$  33,062  
 345 
 33,407  
  38,279 
  465 
 38,744  
  Total consumer PCI loans (carrying value) 
$  26,839  
 152 
 26,991  
  29,746 
  206 
 29,952  
(1) Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally
 be limited to only the amount in excess of 
100% LTV/CLTV. 
167   Note 7:  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets 
       December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
Land 
$  1,832  
 1,825 
Buildings 
  7,670 
  7,441 
Furniture and equipment 
  7,194 
  7,195 
Leasehold improvements 
  1,839 
  1,725 
Premises and equipment leased 
    under capital leases 
  122 
  147 
  Total premises and equipment 
  18,657 
  18,333 
Less: Accumulated depreciation 
    and amortization 
  9,229 
  8,802 
   Net book value, 
       premises and equipment 
$  9,428  
 9,531 
        Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and 
equipment was $1.3 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion in 2012, 

2011 and 2010, respectively. 

 Dispositions of premises and equipment, included in 

noninterest expense, resulted in a net gain of $7 million in 2012, 
and net losses of $17 million and $115 million in 2011 and 2010, 
respectively. 

 We have obligations under a number of noncancelable 

operating leases for premises and equipment. The leases 

predominantly expire over the ne
xt 15 years, with the longest 
expiring in 2105, and many prov
ide for periodic adjustment of 
rentals based on changes in vari
ous economic indicators. Some 
leases also include a renewal option. The following table 

provides the future minimum paym
ents under capital leases and 
noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease rentals, with 

terms greater than one year as of December 31, 2012. 
     Operating 
 Capital
(in millions) 
 leases 
 leases
Year ended December 31, 
   2013  $  1,311  
  3 
2014    1,184  
  3 
2015    970  
  3 
2016    808  
  3 
2017    657  
  2 
Thereafter 
  2,594  
  15 
 Total minimum lease payments 
$  7,524  
  29 
Executory costs 
  $  (8)
Amounts representing interest 
    (9)
Present value of net minimum 
     lease payments 
  $  12 
  Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premises), 
net of rental income, was $1.1 billion, $1.2 billion and 
$1.3 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 

 The components of other assets were: 
       December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
 Nonmarketable equity investments: 
   Cost method: 
     Private equity investments 
$  2,572  
 3,444 
   Federal bank stock 
  4,227 
  4,617 
    Total cost method 
  6,799 
  8,061 
  Equity method and other: 
     LIHTC investments (1) 
  4,767 
  4,077 
   Private equity and other 
  6,156 
  4,670 
    Total equity method and other 
  10,923 
  8,747 
     Total nonmarketable 
         equity investments (2) 
 17,722 
  16,808 
 Corporate/bank-owned life insurance 
  18,649 
  20,146 
 Accounts receivable 
  25,828 
  25,939 
 Interest receivable 
  5,006 
  5,296 
 Core deposit intangibles 
  5,915 
  7,311 
 Customer relationship and  
    other amortized intangibles 
  1,352 
  1,639 
 Foreclosed assets: 
    GNMA (3) 
  1,509 
  1,319 
  Other 
  2,514 
  3,342 
 Operating lease assets 
  2,001 
  1,825 
 Due from customers on acceptances 
 282 
  225 
 Other 
  12,800 
  17,172 
      Total other assets 
$  93,578  
 101,022 
 (1) Represents low income housing tax credit investments. 
(2) Proceeds from sales of nonmarketable equity investments totaled $2.3 billion 
and $2.4 billion and purchases totaled $2.6 billion and $2.7 billion for 2012 and 
2011, respectively.   
(3) These are foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans. Both principal and 
interest for government insured/guaranteed loans secured by the foreclosed real 
estate are collectible because the loans are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by 
the VA. 
   Income related to nonmarket
able equity investments was: 
       Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2010 
Net realized gains from private 
     equity investments 
$  1,086 
 842 
  534 
All other 
  (185)
 (298)
  (188)
 Total 
$  901 
 544 
  346 
168   Note 8:  Securitizations an
d Variable Interest Entities 
 Involvement with SPEs 
In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of 
on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose 
entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships 

that are established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are 

formed in connection with securitization transactions. In a 

securitization transaction, assets from our balance sheet are 

transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors various 

forms of interests in those assets and may also enter into 

derivative transactions. In a securitization transaction, we 

typically receive cash and/or 
other interests in an SPE as 
proceeds for the assets we transfer. Also, in certain transactions, 

we may retain the right to service the transferred receivables and 

to repurchase those receivables 
from the SPE if the outstanding 
balance of the receivables falls to a level where the cost exceeds 

the benefits of servicing such receivables. In addition, we may 

purchase the right to service loans in an SPE that were 

transferred to the SPE by a third party. 

 In connection with our securitization activities, we have 

various forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may 

include: 

 underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently 
making markets in those securities; 
 providing liquidity facilities to support short-term 
obligations of SPEs issued to third party investors; 
 providing credit enhancement on
 securities issued by SPEs 
or market value guarantees of assets held by SPEs through 

the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit 

default swaps and total return swaps; 
 entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 
 holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs;  
 acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and 
 providing administrative or 
trustee services to SPEs. 
 
  SPEs are generally considered variable interest entities 
(VIEs). A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity 

investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without 

additional subordinated financial support or whose equity 

investors lack the ability to contr
ol the entity’s activities. A VIE is 
consolidated by its primary beneficiary, the party that has both 

the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact 

the VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be 

significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, 

ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair 

value of the VIE’s net assets. To determine whether or not a 

variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the 

VIE, we consider both qualit
ative and quantitative factors 
regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with the 
VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of 
a VIE on an on-going basis. 

 We have segregated our involvement with VIEs between 

those VIEs which we consolidate, those which we do not 

consolidate and those for which we
 account for the transfers of 
financial assets as secured bo
rrowings. Secured borrowings are 
transactions involving transfers of our financial assets to third 

parties that are accounted for as
 financings with the assets 
pledged as collateral. Accordingly, the transferred assets remain 

recognized on our balance sheet. 
Subsequent tables within this 
Note further segregate these transactions by structure type.
 169Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
  The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance 
sheet associated with our transactions with VIEs follow: 
         Transfers that
      VIEs that we 
 VIEs 
we account
      do not 
 that we 
for as secured
  (in millions) 
consolidate 
consolidate 
borrowings
 Total 
December 31, 2012
                     Cash  
$  -    260  
  30  
  290  
Trading assets  
  1,902  
  114  
  218  
  2,234  
Securities available for sale 
(1)
   19,900  
  2,772  
  14,848  
  37,520  
Mortgages held for sale 
  -    469  
  -    469  
Loans 
  9,841  
  10,553  
  7,088  
  27,482  
Mortgage servicing rights 
  11,114  
  -    -    11,114 
 Other assets  
  4,993  
  457  
  161  
  5,611  
 Total assets  
  47,750  
  14,625  
  22,345  
  84,720  
Short-term borrowings  
  -    2,059  
(2)
  13,228 
   15,287  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities
    3,441  
  901  
(2)
  20 
   4,362  
Long-term debt
    -    3,483  
(2)
  6,520 
   10,003  
 Total liabilities 
  3,441  
  6,443  
  19,768  
  29,652  
Noncontrolling interests  
  -    48  
  -    48  
  Net assets 
$  44,309  
  8,134  
  2,577  
  55,020  
December 31, 2011 
                    Cash 
$  -  
  321  
  11  
  332  
Trading assets  
  3,723  
  293  
  30  
  4,046  
Securities available for sale (1) 
  21,708  
  3,332  
  11,671  
  36,711  
Mortgages held for sale  
  -  
  444  
  -  
  444  
Loans 
  11,404  
  11,967  
  7,181  
  30,552  
Mortgage servicing rights  
  12,080  
  -  
  -  
  12,080  
Other assets  
  4,494  
  1,858  
  137  
  6,489  
 Total assets
    53,409  
  18,215  
  19,030  
  90,654  
Short-term borrowings  
  -  
  3,450  
(2) 
 10,682  
  14,132  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
  3,350  
  1,138  
(2) 
 121  
  4,609  
Long-term debt 
  -  
  4,932  
(2) 
 6,686  
  11,618  
 Total liabilities 
  3,350  
  9,520  
  17,489  
  30,359  
Noncontrolling interests 
  -  
  61  
  -  
  61  
  Net assets 
$  50,059  
  8,634  
  1,541  
  60,234  
(1) Excludes certain debt securities related to 
loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home L
oan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and 
GNMA. 
(2) Includes the following VIE liabilities at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, respectively, with recourse to the general 
credit of Wells Fargo: Short-term borrowings, 
$2.1 billion and $3.4 billion; Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $767 million and $963 million; and Long-term debt, $29 m
illion and $30 million. 
  Transactions with Unconsolidated VIEs 
Our transactions with VIEs include securitizations of residential 
mortgage loans, CRE loans, student loans and auto loans and 
leases; investment and financing activities involving CDOs 

backed by asset-backed and CRE securities, collateralized loan 

obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate loans, and other types of 

structured financing. We have various forms of involvement with 

VIEs, including holding senior or subordinated interests, 

entering into liquidity arrangements, credit default swaps and 

other derivative contracts. Involvements with these 

unconsolidated VIEs are recorded on our balance sheet 
primarily in trading assets, securities available for sale, loans, 
MSRs, other assets and other liabilities, as appropriate. 

 The following tables provide a summary of unconsolidated 

VIEs with which we have significant continuing involvement, but 

we are not the primary beneficiary. We do not consider our 
continuing involvement in an unconsolidated VIE to be 
significant when it relates to third-party sponsored VIEs for 

which we were not the transferor or if we were the sponsor but 

do not have any other significant continuing involvement. 
 Significant continuing invol
vement includes transactions 
where we were the sponsor or transferor and have other 

significant forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes 

transactions with unconsolidat
ed VIEs where we solely or 
materially participated in the init
ial design or st
ructuring of the 
entity or marketing of the tran
saction to investors. When we 
transfer assets to a VIE and account for the transfer as a sale, we 

are considered the transferor. We consider investments in 

securities held outside of trading, loans, guarantees, liquidity 

agreements, written options and servicing of collateral to be 

other forms of involvement that may be significant. We have 

excluded certain transactions wi
th unconsolidated VIEs from the 
170    balances presented in the table below where we have determined 
that our continuing involvement is not significant due to the 

temporary nature and size of our variable interests, because we 
were not the transferor or because we were not involved in the 
design or operations of the unconsolidated VIEs.
            Other
       Total
  Debt and
  commitments
       VIE
  equity
Servicing 
 and
Net 
(in millions) 
 assets 
interests (1)
assets 
Derivatives 
guarantees
assets 
December 31, 2012 
               Carrying value - asset (liability) 
Residential mortgage loan 
       securitizations: 
            Conforming
 $  1,268,494  
  3,620 
 10,336  
 -   (1,690)
 12,266  
      Other/nonconforming
   49,794  
  2,188 
 284  
 -   (53)
 2,419  
Commercial mortgage securitizations 
  168,126  
  7,081 
 466  
 404  
 -  7,951  
Collateralized debt obligations: 
                   Debt securities
   6,940  
  13 
 -   471  
 144 
 628  
      Loans (2)
   8,155  
  7,962 
 -   -   -  7,962  
Asset-based finance structures 
  10,404  
  7,155 
 -   (104) 
 -  7,051  
Tax credit structures 
  20,098  
  5,180 
 -   -   (1,657)
 3,523  
Collateralized loan obligations 
  6,641  
  1,439 
 -   1  
 -  1,440  
Investment funds  
  4,771  
  49 
 -   -   -  49  
Other (3) 
  10,401  
  977 
 28  
 14  
 1 
 1,020  
   Total
 $  1,553,824  
  35,664 
 11,114  
 786  
 (3,255)
 44,309  
        Maximum exposure to loss 
Residential mortgage loan 
       securitizations: 
        Conforming 
  $  3,620 
 10,336  
 -   5,061 
 19,017  
  Other/nonconforming 
    2,188 
 284  
 -   353 
 2,825  
Commercial mortgage securitizations 
    7,081 
 466  
 446  
 -  7,993  
Collateralized debt obligations: 
               Debt securities 
    13 
 -   471  
 144 
 628  
  Loans (2) 
    7,962 
 -   -   -  7,962  
Asset-based finance structures 
    7,155 
 -   104  
 1,967 
 9,226  
Tax credit structures 
    5,180 
 -   -   247 
 5,427  
Collateralized loan obligations 
    1,439 
 -   1  
 261 
 1,701  
Investment funds  
    49 
 -   -   27 
 76  
Other (3) 
    977 
 28  
 318  
 119 
 1,442  
  Total 
  $  35,664 
 11,114  
 1,340  
 8,179 
 56,297  
             (continued on following page)
        171Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
   (continued from previous page)
                               Other 
       Total 
 Debt and 
  commitments 
       VIE 
 equity 
Servicing 
 and Net 
(in millions) 
 assets 
 interests (1) 
assets 
Derivatives 
guarantees assets 
December 31, 2011 
                Carrying value - asset (liability) 
Residential mortgage loan securitizations: 
             
Conforming 
$  1,135,629  
  4,682  
 11,070  
 -  
 (975) 
 14,777  
     
Other/nonconforming 
  61,461  
  2,460  
 353  
 1  
 (48) 
 2,766  
Commercial mortgage securitizations 
  179,007  
  7,063  
 623  
 349  
 -  
 8,035  
Collateralized debt obligations: 
             Debt securities 
  11,240  
  1,107  
 -  
 193  
 -  
 1,300  
 Loans (2) 
  9,757  
  9,511  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 9,511  
Asset-based finance structures 
  9,606  
  6,942  
 -  
 (130) 
 -  
 6,812  
Tax credit structures 
  19,257  
  4,119  
 -  
 -  
 (1,439) 
 2,680  
Collateralized loan obligations 
  12,191  
  2,019  
 -  
 40  
 -  
 2,059  
Investment funds  
  6,318  
  -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
Other (3) 
  18,717  
  1,896  
 34  
 190  
 (1) 
 2,119  
 Total 
$  1,463,183  
  39,799  
 12,080  
 643  
 (2,463) 
 50,059  
                     Maximum exposure to loss 
Residential mortgage loan securitizations: 
          Conforming 
  $  4,682  
 11,070  
 -  
 3,657  
 19,409  
  Other/nonconforming 
    2,460  
 353  
 1  
 295  
 3,109  
Commercial mortgage securitizations 
    7,063  
 623  
 538  
 -  
 8,224  
Collateralized debt obligations: 
               Debt securities 
    1,107  
 -  
 874  
 -  
 1,981  
  Loans (2) 
    9,511  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 9,511  
Asset-based finance structures 
    6,942  
 -  
 130  
 1,504  
 8,576  
Tax credit structures 
    4,119  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4,119  
Collateralized loan obligations 
    2,019  
 -  
 41  
 523  
 2,583  
Investment funds 
    -  
 -  
 -  
 41  
 41  
Other (3) 
    1,896  
 34  
 903  
 150  
 2,983  
 Total 
  $  39,799  
 12,080  
 2,487  
 6,170  
 60,536  
(1) Includes total equity interests of $5.8 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The December 31, 
2011 equity interests balance has been 
revised to include tax credit structures, which are all equity interests. Also includes debt interests in the form of both loan
s and securities. Excludes certain debt securities 
held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA.
 (2) Represents senior loans to trusts that are collateralized by asset-backed securities. The trusts invest primarily in senior tra
nches from a diversified pool of primarily U.S. 
asset securitizations, of which all are current, and over 83% and 88% were rated as investment grade by the primary rating agen
cies at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. These senior loans are accounted for at amortized cost and are subject to the Company’s allowance and credit char
ge-off policies. 
(3) Includes structured financing, student loan securitizations, auto loan and lease securitizations and credit-linked note structu
res. Also contains investments in auction rate 
securities (ARS) issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and, accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity. 
172     In the two preceding tables, “Total VIE assets” represents the 
remaining principal balance of 
assets held by unconsolidated 
VIEs using the most current information available. For VIEs that 

obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative 

instruments, the remaining notional
 amount of the derivative is 
included in the asset balance. “Carrying value” is the amount in 

our consolidated balance sheet related to our involvement with 

the unconsolidated VIEs. “Maximum
 exposure to loss” from our 
involvement with off-balance sheet entities, which is a required 

disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of 

our involvement with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs 

plus the remaining undrawn liqu
idity and lending commitments, 
the notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and 

generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, 

other commitments and guarantees. 
It represents estimated loss 
that would be incurred un
der severe, hypothetical 
circumstances, for which we beli
eve the possibility is extremely 
remote, such as where the value of our interests and any 

associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration 

of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, 

this required disclosure is not 
an indication of expected loss. 
 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS
  Residential 
mortgage loan 
securitizations are financed through the issuance of fixed- or 
floating-rate-asset-backed-securitie
s, which are collateralized by 
the loans transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we 

originated to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain 

the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficial 

interests issued by the VIEs. We 
also may be exposed to limited 
liability related to recourse agreements and repurchase 

agreements we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are 

included in other commitments and guarantees. In certain 

instances, we may service 
residential mortgage loan 
securitizations structured by th
ird parties whose loans we did 
not originate or transfer. Our residential mortgage loan 

securitizations consist of conforming and nonconforming 

securitizations. 

 Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are 

those that are guaranteed by GSEs, including GNMA. Because of 

the power of the GSEs over the VI
Es that hold the assets from 
these conforming residential mort
gage loan securitizations, we 
do not consolidate them. 

 The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming residential 

mortgage loan securitizations are those that do not qualify for a 
GSE guarantee. We may hold variab
le interests issued by the 
VIEs, primarily in the form of senior securities. We do not 

consolidate the nonconformin
g residential 
mortgage loan 
securitizations included in the 
table because we either do not 
hold any variable interests, hold variable interests that we do not 

consider potentially significant 
or are not the primary servicer 
for a majority of the VIE assets. 

 Other commitments and guarantees include amounts related 

to loans sold that we may be
 required to repurchase, or 
otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for 

losses incurred, due to materi
al breach of contractual 
representations and warranties. The maximum exposure to loss 

for material breach of contractual representations and 

warranties represents a stressed case estimate we utilize for 
determining stressed case regu
latory capital needs and is 
considered to be a remote scenario. 

 COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS 
Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are financed through 

the issuance of fixed- or floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, 

which are collateralized by the loans transferred to the VIE. In a 

typical securitization, we may transfer loans we originate to 

these VIEs, account for the transfers
 as sales, retain the right to 
service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued 

by the VIEs. In certain instan
ces, we may service commercial 
mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose 

loans we did not originate or tr
ansfer. We typically serve as 
primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The primary or master 

servicer in a commercial mortgage loan securitization typically 

cannot make the most signific
ant decisions impacting the 
performance of the VIE and therefore does not have power over 

the VIE. We do not consolidate the commercial mortgage loan 

securitizations included in the di
sclosure because we either do 
not have power or do not have a variable interest that could 

potentially be significant to the VIE. 

 COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)
  A CDO is a securitization where a VIE purchases a pool of assets consisting 

of asset-backed securities and issu
es multiple tranches of equity 
or notes to investors. In some CDOs, a portion of the assets are 

obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives such as 

credit default swaps or total return swaps. 

 Prior to 2008, we engaged in
 the structuring of CDOs on 
behalf of third party asset ma
nagers who would select and 
manage the assets for the CDO. Typically, the asset manager has 

some discretion to manage the sa
le of assets of, or derivatives 
used by the CDO, which generally gives the asset manager the 

power over the CDO. We have not structured these types of 

transactions since the credit m
arket disruption began in late 
2007. 

 In addition to our role as arranger we may have other forms 

of involvement with these CDOs
, including ones established 
prior to 2008. Such involvement 
may include acting as liquidity 
provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or 

investor. For certain CDOs, we may also act as the collateral 

manager or servicer. We receive fees in connection with our role 

as collateral manager or servicer. 

 We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs 
based on our role in them in combination with the variable 
interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing 

involvement to determine if the nature of our involvement has 

changed. We are not the primary beneficiary of these CDOs in 

most cases because we do not act as the collateral manager or 

servicer, which generally denotes power. In cases where we are 

the collateral manager or servicer, we are not the primary 

beneficiary because we do no
t hold interests that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. 

  COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)
  A CLO is a 
securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting 

of loans and issues multiple t
ranches of equity or notes to 
investors. Generally, CLOs are st
ructured on behalf of a third 
173Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
  party asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets 
for the term of the CLO. Typi
cally, the asset manager has the 
power over the significant deci
sions of the VIE through its 
discretion to manage the assets of the CLO. We assess whether 

we are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our role in 

them and the variable interests we hold. In most cases, we are 

not the primary beneficiary because we do not have the power to 

manage the collate
ral in the VIE. 
 In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms 

of involvement with these CLOs
. Such involvement may include 
acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty, secondary market 

maker or investor. For certain CLOs, we may also act as the 

servicer, for which we receive fees in connection with that role. 

We also earn fees for arranging these CLOs and distributing the 

securities. 

 ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES
  We engage in various 
forms of structured finance arrangements with VIEs that are 

collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, 

auto and other transportation leases, intellectual property, 

equipment and general corporate credit. We typically provide 

senior financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or 

commodity derivative counterp
arty when necessary. In most 
cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these structures 

because we do not have power over the significant activities of 

the VIEs involved in them. 

 For example, we have investments in asset-backed securities 
that are collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves. 
These fixed-rate and variable-rate securities have been 
structured as single-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds 

that are equivalent to investment-grade securities due to their 
significant overcollateralization. The securities are issued by 

VIEs that have been formed 
by third party auto financing 
institutions primarily because they
 require a source of liquidity 
to fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The third party auto 

financing institutions manage the collateral in the VIEs, which is 

indicative of power in them and 
we therefore do not consolidate 
these VIEs. 

  TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES
  We co-sponsor and make 
investments in affordable housing and sustainable energy 

projects that are designed to generate a return primarily through 

the realization of federal tax credits. In some instances, our 

investments in these structures ma
y require that we fund future 
capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. 

While the size of our investment 
in a single entity may at times 
exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not 

consolidate these structures due to the project sponsor’s ability 

to manage the projects, which is indicative of power in them. 

 INVESTMENT FUNDS
  We do not consolidate the investment 
funds because we do not absorb the majority of the expected 

future variability associated with the funds’ assets, including 

variability associated with credit, 
interest rate and liquidity risks. 
   
OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs
  In 2008, legacy Wachovia 
reached an agreement to purchase auction rate securities (ARS) 
at par that were sold to third-party investors by certain of its 
subsidiaries. ARS are debt instruments with long-term 
maturities, but which re-price 
more frequently, and preferred 
equities with no maturity. We purchased all outstanding ARS 

that were issued by VIEs and 
subject to the agreement. At 
December 31, 2012, we held in ou
r securities available-for-sale 
portfolio $357 million of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed pursuant 

to this agreemen
t, compared with $643 million at 
December 31, 2011. 

 In 2009, we reached agreements
 to purchase additional ARS 
from eligible investors who bought ARS through one of our 

broker-dealer subsidiaries. We purchased all outstanding ARS 
that were issued by VIEs and su
bject to the agreement. As of 
December 31, 2012, we held in ou
r securities available-for-sale 
portfolio $329 million of ARS issu
ed by VIEs redeemed pursuant 
to this agreemen
t, compared with $624 million at 
December 31, 2011. 

 We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS because 

we do not have power over the activities of the VIEs.  

 TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES
 In addition to the 
involvements disclosed in the 
preceding table, through the 
issuance of trust preferred securities we had junior subordinated 

debt financing with a carrying value of $4.9 billion at December 

31, 2012, and $7.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and $2.5 billion 

of preferred stock at both December 31, 2012, and 2011. In these 

transactions, VIEs that we wholly
 own issue debt securities or 
preferred equity to third party i
nvestors. All of the proceeds of 
the issuance are invested in debt
 securities or preferred equity 
that we issue to the VIEs. The 
VIEs’ operations and cash flows 
relate only to the issuance, administration and repayment of the 

securities held by third parties.
 We do not consolidate these VIEs 
because the sole assets of the VI
Es are receivables from us. This 
is the case even though we own a
ll of the voting equity shares of 
the VIEs, have fully guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and 

may have the right to redeem th
e third party securities under 
certain circumstances. We report the debt securities issued to 

the VIEs as long-term junior
 subordinated debt and the 
preferred equity securities issued
 to the VIEs as preferred stock 
in our consolidated balance sheet. 

 In 2012, we redeemed $2.7 billion of trust preferred 

securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the 
Dodd-Frank Act and the Base
l Committee recommendations 
known as the Basel III standards. 
 Securitization Activity Related to Unconsolidated 
VIEs 
We use VIEs to securitize cons
umer and CRE loans and other 
types of financial assets, including student loans and auto loans. 

We typically retain the servicing 
rights from these sales and may 
continue to hold other benefici
al interests in the VIEs. We may 
also provide liquidity to investors in the beneficial interests and 

credit enhancements in the form of standby letters of credit. 
Through these securitizations we may be exposed to liability 
under limited amounts of recourse as well as standard 

representations and warranties we make to purchasers and 

issuers. We had the following cash flows with our securitization 

trusts that were involved in transfers accounted for as sales.
 174        Year ended December 31, 
    2012 
   2011  
  2010  
    Other 
  Other 
  Other  Mortgage
 financial 
 Mortgage 
financial 
 Mortgage 
financial
(in millions) 
 loans
 assets 
 loans 
assets 
 loans 
assets
Sales proceeds from securitizations (1) 
$  535,372  
 -    337,357  
 -  
  374,488  
 - 
Servicing fees  
  4,433 
  10  
  4,401  
 11  
  4,316  
 34 
Other interests held 
  1,767 
  135  
  1,779  
 263  
  1,786  
 442 
Purchases of delinquent assets 
  62 
  -    9  
 -  
  25  
 - 
Net servicing advances 
  226 
  -    29  
 -  
  49  
 - 
 (1) Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented. 
  In 2012, 2011, and 2010, we recognized net gains of 
$518 million, $112 million and $27 million, respectively, from 

transfers accounted for as sales of financial assets in 

securitizations. These net gains primarily relate to commercial 

mortgage securitizations and residential mortgage 

securitizations where the loans were not already carried at fair 

value.  

 Sales with continuing involvement during 2012, 2011 and 

2010 predominantly related to co
nforming residential mortgage 
securitizations. During 2012, 2011 and 2010 we transferred 

$517.3 billion, $329.1 billion and $379.0 billion respectively, in 

fair value of conforming resident
ial mortgages to unconsolidated 
VIEs and recorded the transfers as sales. Substantially all of 
these transfers did not result in 
a gain or loss because the loans 
are already carried at fair value. In connection with all of these 

transfers, in 2012 we recorded a $4.9 billion servicing asset, 

measured at fair value using 
a Level 3 measurement technique, 
and a $274 million liability for probable repurchase losses. In 

2011, we recorded a $4.0 billion servicing asset and a 

$101 million liability. In 2010, we recorded a $4.5 billion 

servicing asset, with $4.1 billion recorded at fair value as Level 3 

and the remaining $400 million re
corded as amortized mortgage 
servicing rights. We also recorded a $144 million repurchase 

liability in 2010. 

  We used the following key weighted-average assumptions to 
measure mortgage servic
ing assets at the date of securitization:
     Residential mortgage
    servicing rights 
    2012 
  2011 
  2010 
Year ended December 31, 
    Prepayment speed (1) 
  13.4 
 %  12.8 
  13.5 
Discount rate 
  7.3 
   7.7 
  5.4 
Cost to service ($ per loan) (2) 
$  151  
  146 
  151 
       (1) The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights 
includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed 
assumptions are influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our 
estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
(2) Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs. 
  During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we transferred $3.4 billion, 
$3.0 billion and $336 million, respectively, in fair value of 

commercial mortgages to unconsol
idated VIEs and recorded the 
transfers as sales. These transfers resulted in a gain of 

$178 million in 2012, $48 million in 2011 and $23 million in 

2010 because the loans were carried at LOCOM. In connection 

with these transfers, in 2012 and 2011 we recorded a servicing 

asset of $13 million and $20 million, respectively, initially 

measured at fair value using 
a Level 3 measurement technique. 
175Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
  The following table provides key economic assumptions and 
the sensitivity of the 
current fair value of 
residential mortgage 
servicing rights and other retained interests to immediate 

adverse changes in those assumptions. “Other interests held” 

relate predominantly to reside
ntial and commercial mortgage 
loan securitizations. Residential mortgage-backed securities 

retained in securitizations issued through GSEs, such as FNMA, 

FHLMC and GNMA, are excluded from the table because these 

securities have 
a remote risk of credit loss due to the GSE 
guarantee. These securities also have economic characteristics 
similar to GSE mortgage-backed 
securities that we purchase, 
which are not included in the table. Subordinated interests 

include only those bonds whose credit rating was below AAA by 

a major rating agency at issuance. Senior interests include only 

those bonds whose credit rating was AAA by a major rating 

agency at issuance. The information presented excludes trading 

positions held in inventory. 
         Other interests held 
     Residential
             mortgage
Interest-
  Consumer
 Commercial (2) 
     servicing
 only
 Subordinated 
 Senior 
Subordinated 
 Senior 
($ in millions, except cost to service amounts) 
 rights (1)
 strips
  bonds 
 bonds 
bonds 
 bonds 
Fair value of interests held at December 31, 2012
 $  11,538 
  187 
   40  
  -    249  
  982  
Expected weighted-average life (in years) 
  4.8 
  4.1 
   5.9  
  -    4.7  
  5.3  
Key economic assumptions: 
              Prepayment speed assumption (3) 
  15.7 
%  10.6 
   6.8  
  -            Decrease in fair value from: 
                     10% adverse change 
$  869 
  5 
   -    -              25% adverse change 
  2,038 
  12 
   -    -       Discount rate assumption 
  7.4 
%  16.9 
   8.9  
  -    3.5  
  2.2  
  Decrease in fair value from: 
                     100 basis point increase 
$  562 
  4 
   2  
  -    12  
  43  
        200 basis point increase 
  1,073 
  8 
   4  
  -    21  
  84  
 Cost to service assumption ($ per loan) 
  219 
             Decrease in fair value from: 
                10% adverse change 
  615 
              25% adverse change 
  1,537 
            Credit loss assumption 
       0.4  
%  -    10.0  
  -    Decrease in fair value from: 
                     10% higher losses 
     $  -    -    12  
  -          25% higher losses 
       -    -    19  
  -                    Fair value of interests held at December 31, 2011 
$  12,918 
  230 
   45  
  321  
  240  
  852  
Expected weighted-average life (in years) 
  5.1 
  4.6 
   6.1  
  5.6  
  5.3  
  4.4  
Key economic assumptions: 
             Prepayment speed assumption (3) 
  14.8 
%  10.7 
   6.9  
  13.9  
         
Decrease in fair value from: 
                   
 10% adverse change 
$  895 
  6 
   -  
  2  
          
 25% adverse change 
  2,105 
  15 
   1  
  4  
     Discount rate assumption 
  7.1 
%  15.6 
   11.9  
  7.1  
  3.8  
  2.4  
  Decrease in fair value from: 
                   
  100 basis point increase 
$  566 
  6 
   2  
  12  
  9  
  31  
      
  200 basis point increase 
  1,081 
  12 
   4  
  24  
  18  
  59  
 Cost to service assumption ($ per loan) 
  218 
             Decrease in fair value from: 
                10% adverse change 
  582 
              25% adverse change 
  1,457 
            Credit loss assumption 
       0.5  
%  4.5  
  10.7  
  -  
  Decrease in fair value from: 
                     
  10% higher losses 
     $  -  
  1  
  8  
  -  
      
  25% higher losses 
       -  
  2  
  18  
  -  
(1) December 31, 2011, has been revised to report only the sensitivities for residential mortgage servicing rights. See narrative f
ollowing this table for a discussion of 
commercial mortgage servicing rights. 
(2) “Other interests held” has been expanded to include retained interests from commercial securitizations. Prepayment speed assump
tions do not significantly impact the value 
of commercial mortgage securitization bonds as the underlying co
mmercial mortgage loans experience significantly lower prepayme
nts due to certain contractual 
restrictions, impacting the borrower’s ab
ility to prepay the mortgage. 
(3) The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rat
es. Prepayment speed assumptions are 
influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
176     In addition to residential mo
rtgage servicing rights (MSRs) 
included in the previous table,
 we have a small portfolio of 
commercial MSRs with a fair 
value of $1.4 billion at 
December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011. The nature of our 

commercial MSRs, which are carried at LOCOM, is different 

from our residential MSRs. Prepayment activity on serviced 

loans does not significantly im
pact the value of commercial 
MSRs because, unlike resident
ial mortgages, commercial 
mortgages experience significantly lower prepayments due to 

certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower’s ability 

to prepay the mortgage. Additi
onally, for our commercial MSR 
portfolio, we are typically master/primary servicer, but not the 

special servicer, who is separately responsible for the servicing 

and workout of delinquent and foreclosed loans. It is the special 

servicer, similar to our role as servicer of residential mortgage 

loans, who is affected by higher
 servicing and foreclosure costs 
due to an increase in deli
nquent and foreclosed loans. 
Accordingly, prepayment
 speeds and costs to service are not key 
assumptions for commercial MSRs 
as they do not significantly 
impact the valuation. The prim
ary economic driver impacting 
the fair value of our commercial MSRs is forward interest rates, 

which are derived from market observable yield curves used to 

price capital markets instruments. Market interest rates most 
significantly affect interest earn
ed on custodial deposit balances. 
The sensitivity of the current fair value to an immediate adverse 

25% change in the assumption ab
out interest earned on deposit 
balances at December 31, 2012, and 2011, results in a decrease in 
fair value of $139 million and 
$219 million, respectively. See 
Note 9 for further information on our commercial MSRs. 

 The sensitivities in the preceding paragraph and table are 
hypothetical and caution should 
be exercised when relying on 
this data. Changes in 
value based on variations in assumptions 
generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the 

change in the assumption to th
e change in value may not be 
linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption 

on the value of the other interests held is calculated 

independently without changing any other assumptions. In 

reality, changes in one factor may 
result in changes in others (for 
example, changes in prepayment sp
eed estimates could result in 
changes in the credit losses), wh
ich might magnify or counteract 
the sensitivities. 

 The following table presents information about the principal 

balances of off-balance sheet 
securitized loans, including 
residential mortgages sold 
to FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and 
securitizations where servicing is
 our only form of continuing 
involvement. Delinquent loans in
clude loans 90 days or more 
past due and still accruing intere
st as well as nonaccrual loans. 
In securitizations where servicing 
is our only form of continuing 
involvement, we would only experience a loss if required to 

repurchase a delinquent loan due to a breach in representations 

and warranties associated with our loan sale or servicing 

contracts. 
              Net charge-offs 
      Total loans 
Delinquent loans 
Year ended 
     December 31, 
December 31, 
December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2012 
  2011 
  2012 
  2011 
Commercial: 
           
Real estate mortgage 
$  128,564  
 137,121 
   12,216 
  11,142 
   541 
  569 
  Total commercial 
  128,564  
 137,121 
   12,216 
  11,142 
   541 
  569 
Consumer: 
              
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  1,283,504  
 1,171,666 
   21,574 
  24,235 
   1,170 
  1,506 
     
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  1  
 2 
   -   - 
   -   16 
     
Other revolving credit and installment 
  2,034  
 2,271 
   110 
  131 
   -   - 
      
 Total consumer 
  1,285,539  
 1,173,939 
   21,684 
  24,366 
   1,170 
  1,522 
   Total off-balance sheet securitized loans (1) 
$  1,414,103  
 1,311,060 
   33,900 
  35,508 
   1,711 
  2,091 
(1) At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the table includes total loans of $1.3 trillion and $1.2 trillion, respectively, and delinquent 
loans of $17.4 billion and $19.7 billion, 
respectively for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. Net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA as we do not service or manag
e the underlying real estate upon 
foreclosure and, as such, do not have access to net charge-off information. 
177Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 
(continued) 
  Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured 
Borrowings 
The following table presents a summary of transfers of financial 
assets accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements 

with consolidated VIEs. “Cons
olidated assets” are presented 
using GAAP measurement method
s, which may include fair 
value, credit impairment or othe
r adjustments, and therefore in 
some instances will differ from “
Total VIE assets.” For VIEs that 
obtain exposure synthetically th
rough derivative instruments, 
the remaining notional amount of 
the derivative is included in 
“Total VIE assets.” On the consolidated balance sheet, we 

separately disclose the consolidated assets of certain VIEs that 

can only be used to settle th
e liabilities of those VIEs.
          Carrying value
      Total 
   Third 
         VIE 
Consolidated
 party 
Noncontrolling 
 Net
 (in millions) 
 assets 
assets 
 liabilities
  interests
 assets 
December 31, 2012
                          Secured borrowings:  
               Municipal tender option bond securitizations 
$  16,782  
  15,130  
  (13,248) 
  -   1,882  
     Commercial real estate loans  
  975  
  975  
  (696) 
  -   279  
     Residential mortgage securitizations  
  5,757  
  6,240  
  (5,824) 
  -   416  
       Total secured borrowings  
  23,514  
  22,345  
  (19,768) 
  -   2,577  
Consolidated VIEs:  
           Nonconforming residential 
                mortgage loan securitizations 
  8,633  
  7,707  
  (2,933) 
  -   4,774  
     Multi-seller commercial paper conduit 
  2,059  
  2,036  
  (2,053) 
  -   (17) 
 Auto loan securitizations  
  -    -    -    -   -       Structured asset finance 
  71  
  71  
  (17) 
  -   54  
     Investment funds 
  1,837  
  1,837  
  (2) 
  -   1,835  
     Other  
  3,454  
  2,974  
  (1,438) 
  (48)
  1,488  
       Total consolidated VIEs  
  16,054  
  14,625  
  (6,443) 
  (48)
  8,134  
   Total secured borrowings and consolidated VIEs 
$  39,568  
  36,970  
  (26,211) 
  (48)
  10,711  
December 31, 2011
                          Secured borrowings:  
               
Municipal tender option bond securitizations 
$  14,168  
  11,748  
  (10,689) 
  - 
  1,059  
     
Commercial real estate loans  
  1,168  
  1,168  
  (1,041) 
  - 
  127  
     
Residential mortgage securitizations  
  5,705  
  6,114  
  (5,759) 
  - 
  355  
      
 Total secured borrowings  
  21,041  
  19,030  
  (17,489) 
  - 
  1,541  
Consolidated VIEs:  
           Nonconforming residential 
            mortgage loan securitizations 
  11,375  
  10,244  
  (4,514) 
  - 
  5,730  
 Multi-seller commercial paper conduit 
  2,860  
  2,860  
  (2,935) 
  - 
  (75) 
 Auto loan securitizations  
  163  
  163  
  (143) 
  - 
  20  
     
Structured asset finance 
  124  
  124  
  (16) 
  - 
  108  
     
Investment funds 
  2,012  
  2,012  
  (22) 
  - 
  1,990  
     
Other 
  3,432  
  2,812  
  (1,890) 
  (61)
  861  
      
 Total consolidated VIEs  
  19,966  
  18,215  
  (9,520) 
  (61)
  8,634  
   Total secured borrowings and consolidated VIEs 
$  41,007  
  37,245  
  (27,009) 
  (61)
  10,175  
               In addition to the transactions 
included in the previous table, 
at both December 31, 2012, and 2011, we had approximately 

$6.0 billion of private placement debt financing issued through a 
consolidated VIE. The issuance is 
classified as long-term debt in 
our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2012, 

and 2011, we pledged approximately $6.4 billion and $6.2 billion 

in loans (principal and interest
 eligible to be capitalized), 
$179 million and $316 million in securities available for sale, and 

$138 million and $154 million in
 cash and cash equivalents to 
collateralize the VIE’s borrowings, respectively. These assets 
were not transferred to the VIE, and accordingly we have 
excluded the VIE from the previous table. 
 We have raised financing through 
the securitization of certain 
financial assets in transactions
 with VIEs accounted for as 
secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are the 

primary beneficiary. In certain transactions other than the 

multi-seller commercial paper cond
uit, we provide contractual 
support in the form of limited reco
urse and liquidity to facilitate 
the remarketing of short-term se
curities issued to third party 
investors. Other than this limited contractual support, the assets 

of the VIEs are the sole source 
of repayment of the securities 
held by third parties. The liqu
idity support we provide to the 
multi-seller commercial paper cond
uit ensures timely repayment 
178    of commercial paper issued by
 the conduit and is described 
further below. 

 MUNICIPAL TENDER OPTION BOND SECURITIZATIONS
 As part 
of our normal portfolio investment activities, we consolidate 

municipal bond trusts that hold highly rated, long-term, fixed-

rate municipal bonds, the majority of which are rated AA or 

better. Our residual interests in these trusts generally allow us to 
capture the economics of owning the securities outright, and 

constructively make decisions th
at significantly impact the 
economic performance of the mu
nicipal bond vehicle, primarily 
by directing the sale of the 
municipal bonds owned by the 
vehicle. In addition, the residual 
interest owners have the right 
to receive benefits and bear losses that are proportional to 

owning the underlying municipal bonds in the trusts. The trusts 

obtain financing by issuing floa
ting-rate trust certificates that 
reprice on a weekly or other basis to third-party investors. Under 
certain conditions, if we elec
t to terminate the trusts and 
withdraw the underlying assets
, the third party investors are 
entitled to a small portion of any unrealized gain on the 

underlying assets.
 We may serve as remarketing agent and/or 
liquidity provider for the trusts. 
The floating-rate investors have 
the right to tender the certificates
 at specified dates, often with 
as little as seven days’ notice. Sh
ould we be unable to remarket 
the tendered certificates, we are generally obligated to purchase 

them at par under standby liquidity facilities unless the bond’s 

credit rating has declined below 
investment grade or there has 
been an event of default or bank
ruptcy of the issuer and insurer
.   NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN 
SECURITIZATIONS  
We have consolidated certain of our 
nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations in 

accordance with consolidation 
accounting guidance. We have 
determined we are the primary beneficiary of these 

securitizations because we have the power to direct the most 

significant activities of the entity through our role as primary 

servicer and also hold variable interests that we have determined 

to be significant. The nature of our variable interests in these 

entities may include beneficial 
interests issued by the VIE, 
mortgage servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve 

liabilities. The beneficial interest
s issued by the VIE that we hold 
include either subordinate or senior securities held in an amount 

that we consider pote
ntially significant. 
 MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT
  We administer a multi-seller asset-based commercial paper conduit that 
finances certain client transactions. This conduit is a bankruptcy 

remote entity that makes loans to, or purchases certificated 

interests, generally from SPEs
, established by our clients 
(sellers) and which are secured by pools of financial assets. The 

conduit funds itself through the issuance of highly rated 

commercial paper to third party i
nvestors. The primary source of 
repayment of the commercial pape
r is the cash flows from the 
conduit’s assets or the re-issua
nce of commercial paper upon 
maturity. The conduit’s assets are
 structured with deal-specific 
credit enhancements generally in the form of 

overcollateralization provided by 
the seller, but may also include 
subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, third party credit 

support facilities and excess 
spread capture. The timely 
repayment of the commercial paper is further supported by 

asset-specific liquidity facilities
 in the form of liquidity asset 
purchase agreements that we prov
ide. Each facility is equal to 
102% of the conduit’s funding commitment to a client. The 

aggregate amount of liquidity must
 be equal to or greater than 
all the commercial paper issued by
 the conduit. At the discretion 
of the administrator, we may be 
required to purchase assets 
from the conduit at par value plus
 accrued interest or discount 
on the related commercial paper, 
including situations where the 
conduit is unable to issue commercial paper. Par value may be 

different from fair value.  

 We receive fees in connection with our role as administrator 

and liquidity provider. We may also
 receive fees related to the 
structuring of the conduit’s transactions. We are the primary 

beneficiary of the conduit beca
use we have power over the 
significant activities of the conduit and have a significant 

variable interest due to our liquidity arrangement. 

 INVESTMENT FUNDS  
We have consolidated certain of our 
investment funds where we manage the assets of the fund and 

our interests absorb a majority of the funds’ variability. We 

consolidate these VIEs because we have discretion over the 

management of the assets and are
 the sole investor in these 
funds.
 179   Note 9:  Mortgage Banking Activities 
 Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community 
Banking and Wholesale Banking op
erating segments, consist of 
residential and commercial mortgage originations, sale activity 

and servicing.  
 We apply the amortization method to all commercial MSRs 
and apply the fair value method 
to only residential MSRs. The 
changes in MSRs measured using the fair value method were:
        Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
   2012  
 2011 
 2010  
Fair value, beginning of year 
$  12,603  
 14,467 
 16,004  
 Adjustments from adoption of consolidation accounting guidance 
  -   - 
 (118) 
 Servicing from securitizations or asset transfers (1) 
  5,182  
 3,957 
 4,092  
 Sales 
   (293) 
 - 
 -  
  Net additions 
  4,889  
 3,957 
 3,974  
 Changes in fair value: 
      Due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions: 
       Mortgage interest rates (2) 
  (2,092) 
 (3,749)
 (1,944) 
   Servicing and foreclosure costs (3) 
  (677) 
 (694)
 (1,095) 
   Discount rates (4) 
  (397) 
 (150)
 (387) 
   Prepayment estimates and other (5) 
  273  
 913 
 469  
    Net changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions 
  (2,893) 
 (3,680)
 (2,957) 
  Other changes in fair value (6) 
  (3,061) 
 (2,141)
 (2,554) 
   Total changes in fair value 
  (5,954) 
 (5,821)
 (5,511) 
Fair value, end of year 
$  11,538  
 12,603 
 14,467  
(1) The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $315 million residential MSRs transferred from amortized MSRs that we elected to car
ry at fair value effective January 1, 2012. 
(2) Primarily represents prepayment speed changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates, but also includes other valuation chan
ges due to changes in mortgage interest 
rates (such as changes in estimated interest earned on custodial deposit balances). 
(3) Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs. 
(4) Reflects discount rate assumption change, excluding portion attributable to changes in mortgage interest rates; the year ended 
December 31, 2012, change predominantly 
reflects increased capital return requirements from market participants. 
(5) Represents changes driven by other valuation model inputs or assumptions including prepayment speed estimation changes and othe
r assumption updates. Prepayment 
speed estimation changes are influenced by observed changes in borrower behavior that occur independent of interest rate change
s. 
(6) Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time.
  The changes in amortized MSRs were: 
      Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
 2010  
Balance, beginning of year 
$  1,445  
 1,422 
 1,119  
 Adjustments from adoption of consolidation accounting guidance 
  -   - 
 (5) 
 Purchases 
  177  
 155 
 58  
 Servicing from securitizations or asset transfers (1) 
  (229) 
 132 
 478  
 Amortization (2) 
  (233) 
 (264)
 (228) 
Balance, end of year (2) 
  1,160  
 1,445 
 1,422  
Valuation allowance: 
    Balance, beginning of year 
  (37) 
 (3)
 -  
 Reversal of provision (provision) for MSRs in excess of fair value 
  37  
 (34)
 (3) 
Balance, end of year (3) 
  -   (37)
 (3) 
Amortized MSRs, net 
$  1,160  
 1,408 
 1,419  
Fair value of amortized MSRs: 
     Beginning of year 
$  1,756  
 1,812 
 1,261  
 End of year (4) 
  1,400  
 1,756 
 1,812  
(1) The year ended December 31, 2012, is net of $350 million ($313 million after valuation allowance) of residential MSRs that we e
lected to carry at fair value effective 
January 1, 2012. A cumulative adjustment of $2 million to fair value was recorded in retained earnings at January 1, 2012. 
(2) Includes $350 million and $400 million in residential amortized MSRs at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the years
 ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the 
residential MSR amortization was $(50) million and $(5) million, respectively.  
(3) Commercial amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata: agency (GSEs) and non-agency. The
re was no valuation allowance recorded 
for the periods presented on the commercial amortized MSRs. Residential amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by
 the following risk strata: mortgages 
sold to GSEs (FHLMC and FNMA) and mortgages sold to GNMA, each by interest rate stratifications. A valuation allowance of $37 m
illion and $3 million was recorded on the 
residential amortized MSRs for the years ended December 31, 2011
 and 2010, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2012, 
valuation allowance of $37 million for 
residential MSRs was reversed upon election to carry at fair value. 
(4) Includes fair value of $316 million and $441 million in residential amortized MSRs and $1,440 million and $1,371 million in com
mercial amortized MSRs at 
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The December
 31, 2012, balance is all 
commercial amortized MSRs. 
180     We present the components of our managed servicing 
portfolio in the following table 
at unpaid principal balance for 
loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for 
owned loans serviced. 
       December 31,
 (in billions) 
   2012  
  2011 
Residential mortgage servicing: 
    Serviced for others 
$  1,498  
  1,456 
 Owned loans serviced 
  368  
  358 
 Subservicing 
  7  
  8 
  Total residential servicing 
  1,873  
  1,822 
Commercial mortgage servicing: 
     Serviced for others 
  408  
  398 
 Owned loans serviced 
  106  
  106 
 Subservicing 
  13  
  14 
  Total commercial servicing 
  527  
  518 
   Total managed servicing portfolio 
$  2,400  
  2,340 
Total serviced for others 
$  1,906  
  1,854 
Ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others 
  0.67  
%  0.76 
   The components of mortgage ba
nking noninterest income were: 
         Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2010 
Servicing income, net: 
     Servicing fees  
      Contractually specified servicing fees 
$  4,626  
 4,611 
  4,566 
  Late charges 
  257  
 298 
  360 
  Ancillary fees 
  342  
 354 
  434 
  Unreimbursed direct servicing costs (1) 
  (1,234) 
 (1,119)
  (763)
   Net servicing fees 
  3,991  
 4,144 
  4,597 
 Changes in fair value of MSRs carried at fair value: 
      Due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions (2) 
  (2,893)
  (3,680)
  (2,957)
  Other changes in fair value (3) 
  (3,061) 
 (2,141)
  (2,554)
   Total changes in fair value of MSRs carried at fair value 
  (5,954)
  (5,821)
  (5,511)
 Amortization 
  (233)
  (264)
  (228)
 Provision for MSRs in excess of fair value 
  -   (34)
  (3)
 Net derivative gains from economic hedges (4) 
  3,574  
 5,241 
  4,485 
    Total servicing income, net 
  1,378  
 3,266 
  3,340 
Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities 
  10,260  
 4,566 
  6,397 
     Total mortgage banking noninterest income 
$  11,638  
 7,832 
  9,737 
Market-related valuation changes to MSRs, net of hedge results (2) + (4) 
$  681  
 1,561 
  1,528 
 (1) Primarily associated with foreclosure expenses and certain interest costs. 
(2) Refer to the changes in fair value of MSRs table in this Note for more detail. 
(3) Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 
(4) Represents results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of MSRs. Se
e Note 16 – Free-Standing Derivatives for 
additional discussion and detail. 
181Note 9:  Mortgage Banking Activities 
(continued) 
   The table below summarizes the changes in our liability for 
mortgage loan repurchase losses
. This liability is in “Accrued 
expenses and other liabilities” 
in our consolidated financial 
statements and the provision for repurchase losses reduces net 

gains on mortgage loan originatio
n/sales activities. Because the 
level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic 

factors, investor 
demand strategies and other external 
conditions that may change over 
the life of the underlying loans, 
the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is 

difficult to estimate and requ
ires considerable management 
judgment. We maintain regul
ar contact with the GSEs, the 
Federal Housing Finance Agency 
(FHFA), and other significant 
investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and 

issues as part of our process to update our repurchase liability 

estimate as new information beco
mes available. Because of the 
uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage 

repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the 

recorded mortgage repurchase liability that is reasonably 
possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for 

representations and warranties does not represent a probable 

loss, and is based on currently available information, significant 

judgment, and a number of assu
mptions that are subject to 
change. The high end of this range of reasonably possible losses 
in excess of our recorded liability was $2.4 billion at 
December 31, 2012, and was determined based upon modifying 

the assumptions (particularly to assume significant changes in 

investor repurchase demand practices)
 utilized in our best 
estimate of probable loss to reflect what we believe to be the high 

end of reasonably possible adverse assumptions. 
        Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2010  
Balance, beginning of year 
$  1,326 
 1,289 
  1,033  
 Provision for repurchase losses: 
     Loan sales 
  275 
 101 
  144  
  Change in estimate (1) 
  1,665 
 1,184 
  1,474  
   Total additions 
  1,940 
 1,285 
  1,618  
 Losses 
  (1,060)
 (1,248)
  (1,362) 
Balance, end of year 
$  2,206 
 1,326 
  1,289  
(1) Results from such factors as changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer 
practices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stability of 
correspondent lenders.
 182   Note 10:  Intangible Assets 
 The gross carrying value of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was: 
      December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2011 
      Gross
  Net
 Gross
  Net
      carrying
 Accumulated 
carrying
 carrying
Accumulated 
carrying
(in millions) 
 value
 amortization 
value
 value
amortization 
value
Amortized intangible assets (1): 
       MSRs (2) 
$  2,317  
  (1,157) 
 1,160 
  2,383 
  (975) 
 1,408 
 Core deposit intangibles 
  12,836  
  (6,921) 
 5,915 
  15,079 
  (7,768) 
 7,311 
 Customer relationship and other intangibles 
  3,147  
  (1,795) 
 1,352 
  3,158 
  (1,519) 
 1,639 
  Total amortized intangible assets 
$  18,300  
  (9,873) 
 8,427 
  20,620 
  (10,262) 
 10,358 
Unamortized intangible assets: 
           MSRs (carried at fair value) (2) 
$  11,538  
     12,603 
    Goodwill 
  25,637 
      25,115 
    Trademark 
  14  
     14 
    (1) Excludes fully amortized intangible assets. 
(2) See Note 9 for additional information on MSRs. 
  We based our projections of amortization expense shown 
below on existing asset balances at December 31, 2012. Future 

amortization expense may vary from these projections. 
The following table provides the current year and estimated 
future amortization expense for amortized intangible assets. 
    Customer
     Core
relationship 
   Amortized
deposit
and other 
 (in millions) 
 MSRs
intangibles 
intangibles 
 Total
Year ended December 31, 2012 (actual)
 $  233 
 1,396 
  286  
  1,915 
Estimate for year ended December 31,
         2013 $  235 
  1,241 
  267  
  1,743 
2014   204 
  1,113 
  251  
  1,568 
2015   178 
  1,022 
  227  
  1,427 
2016   145 
  919 
  212  
  1,276 
2017   101 
  851 
  195  
  1,147 
           For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all of the 
goodwill to the individual operating segments. We identify 

reporting units that are one level below an operating segment 

(referred to as a component), 
and distinguish these reporting 
units based on how the segments
 and components are managed, 
taking into consideration the economic characteristics, nature of 
the products and customers of 
the components. We allocate 
goodwill to reporting units based on relative fair value, using 

certain performance metrics. See Note 24 for further 

information on management reporting. 

 The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to our 

operating segments for purposes of
 goodwill impairment testing.  
      Wealth, 
      Community
 Wholesale
Brokerage and
Consolidated 
(in millions) 
 Banking
 Banking
Retirement 
 Company 
December 31, 2010 
$  17,922  
  6,475 
 373  
  24,770  
 Reduction in goodwill related to divested businesses 
  -  
  (9)
 (2) 
  (11) 
 Goodwill from business combinations 
  2 
   354 
  -  
  356  
December 31, 2011
   17,924  
  6,820 
  371  
  25,115  
 Goodwill from business combinations 
  (2) 
  524 
  -    522  
December 31, 2012 
$  17,922  
  7,344 
  371  
  25,637  
183   Note 11:  Deposits 
 Time certificates of deposit (CDs
) and other time deposits issued 
by domestic and foreign offi
ces totaled $90.1 billion and 
$99.6 billion at December 31
, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Substantially all of these deposits were interest bearing. The 

contractual maturities of these deposits follow. 
 (in millions)
 December 31, 2012 
2013  $  56,921  
2014    11,119  
2015    9,078  
2016    6,418  
2017    2,612  
Thereafter 
   3,959  
 Total 
 $  90,107  
 Of these deposits, the amount of domestic time deposits with 
a denomination of $100,000 or 
more was $23.7 billion and 
$25.1 billion at December 31, 
2012 and 2011, respectively. The 
contractual maturities of these deposits follow. 
 (in millions)
 December 31, 2012 
Three months or less 
$  3,460 
After three months through six months 
  3,840 
After six months through twelve months 
  5,582 
After twelve months 
  10,821 
 Total 
$  23,703 
  Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign offices 
with a denomination of $100,000 or
 more were $11.7 billion and 
$13.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

 Demand deposit overdrafts of $806 million and $649 million 

were included as loan balances 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. 
 Note 12:  Short-
Term Borrowings  The table below shows selected information for short-term 
borrowings, which generally mature in less than 30 days. We 

pledge certain financial instruments that we own to collateralize 

repurchase agreements and other securities financings. For 

additional information, see the “Pledged Assets and Collateral” 

section of Note 14. 
       2012  
  2011    2010  (in millions) 
 Amount 
Rate 
  Amount 
Rate 
  Amount
 Rate 
 As of December 31,
             Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings 
$  22,202  
 0.18  
% $  18,053  
 0.19  
% $  17,454  
 0.26  
% Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
             under agreements to repurchase 
  34,973  
 0.17  
   31,038  
 0.05  
   37,947  
 0.15  
  Total 
 $  57,175  
 0.17  
 $  49,091  
 0.10  
 $  55,401  
 0.19  
 Year ended December 31,
             Average daily balance
             Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings 
$  19,104  
 0.28  
 $  17,393  
 0.33  
 $  16,330  
 0.31  
 Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
             under agreements to repurchase 
  32,092  
 0.12  
   34,388  
 0.11  
   30,494  
 0.18  
  Total 
 $  51,196  
 0.18  
 $  51,781  
 0.18  
 $  46,824  
 0.22  
 Maximum month-end balance
             Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings (1) 
$  22,202  
N/A 
 $  18,234  
N/A 
 $  17,646  
N/A 
 Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
             under agreements to repurchase (2) 
  36,327  
N/A 
   37,509  
N/A 
   37,947  
N/A 
  N/A- Not Applicable 
(1) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was December 2012, April 2011 and March 2010. 
(2) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was June 2012, March 2011 and December 2010.  
184   Note 13: Long-Term Debt 
 We issue long-term debt denomina
ted in multiple currencies, 
predominantly in U.S. dollars. Ou
r issuances have both fixed and 
floating interest rates. As a part of our overall interest rate risk 

management strategy, we often use derivatives to manage our 

exposure to interest rate risk. We also use derivatives to manage 
our exposure to foreign currency risk. As a result, the long-term 
debt presented below is primarily 
hedged in a fair value or cash 
flow hedge relationship. See Note 16 for further information on 

qualifying hedge contracts. 
 Following is a summary of our long-term debt carrying 
values, reflecting unamortized 
debt discounts and premiums, 
and purchase accounting adjust
ments for debt assumed in the 
Wachovia acquisition, where applicable. The interest rates 

displayed represent the range of contractual rates in effect at 

December 31, 2012. These interest rates do not include the 

effects of any associated derivatives designated in a hedge 

accounting relationship. 
          December 31,
            2012  
 2011 
        Maturity 
Stated 
     (in millions) 
 date(s) 
interest rate(s) 
    Wells Fargo & Company (Parent only)
       Senior
        Fixed-rate notes  
2013-2035 
1.25-6.75% 
$  44,623  
  38,002 
 (1) 
Floating-rate notes 
2013-2048 
0.059-3.480 
  10,996 
   17,872 
 (1) 
Structured notes (2) 
2013-2052 
   3,633 
   1,359 
   Total senior debt - Parent 
    59,252 
   57,233 
  Subordinated
        Fixed-rate notes  
2013-2035 
4.375-7.574% 
  11,340 
   12,041 
  Floating-rate notes  
2015-2016 
0.653-0.710 
  1,165 
   1,141 
   Total subordinated debt - Parent 
    12,505 
   13,182 
  Junior subordinated
        Fixed-rate notes - hybrid trust securities 
2029-2068 
5.625-7.950% 
  4,221 
   6,951 
  Floating-rate notes 
2027 0.840-1.340 
  255 
   247 
   Total junior subordinated debt - Parent (3) 
    4,476 
   7,198 
    Total long-term debt - Parent 
    76,233 
   77,613 
  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and other bank entities (Bank)
        Senior
        Fixed-rate notes 
2013 6.00% 
  1,331 
   1,326 
  Floating-rate notes  
2017-2040 
0.06-0.53 
  170 
   72 
  Floating-rate extendible notes (4) 
2014  0.359-0.380 
  4,450 
   - 
  Fixed-rate advances - Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) 
2013-2031 
3.83 - 8.17 
  216 
   500 
  Floating-rate advances - FHLB 
2013  0.403-0.411 
  2,002 
   2,101 
  Structured notes (2) 
2013-2025 
   163 
   238 
  Capital leases (Note 7) 
2013-2023 
   12 
   116 
   Total senior debt - Bank 
    8,344 
   4,353 
  Subordinated
        Fixed-rate notes  
2013-2038 
4.75-7.74% 
  14,153 
   15,882 
  Floating-rate notes 
2014-2017 
0.520-3.652 
  1,617 
   1,976 
   Total subordinated debt - Bank 
    15,770 
   17,858 
  Junior subordinated
        Floating-rate notes  
2027 0.88-0.99% 
  294 
   286 
   Total junior subordinated debt - Bank (3) 
    294 
   286 
  Long-term debt issued by VIE - Fixed rate 
2013-2052 
0.00-7.00% 
  1,542 
   2,103 
  Long-term debt issued by VIE - Floating rate 
2020-2052 
0.339-31.835 
  1,826 
   2,748 
  Mortgage notes and other debt 
2013-2062 
0.00-12.50 
  16,976 
   14,854 
    Total long-term debt - Bank 
    44,752  
  42,202 
               (continued on following page)
        185Note 13:  Long-Term Debt 
(continued) 
   (continued from previous page)
                             December 31,
           2012  
 2011 
        Maturity 
Stated     (in millions) 
 date(s) 
interest rate(s)
    Other consolidated subsidiaries
        Senior
        Fixed-rate notes 
2013-2019 
2.774-4.38%
  5,968  
  5,154 
  FixFloat notes 
2020 6.795% through 2015, varies
  20 
   20 
   Total senior debt - Other consolidated subsidiaries 
   5,988 
   5,174 
  Junior subordinated
       Floating-rate notes 
2027 0.813%  155 
   155 
   Total junior subordinated debt - Other  
        consolidated subsidiaries (3) 
   155 
   155 
  Long-term debt issued by VIE - Fixed rate 
2015-2023 
5.16-6.34%
  105 
   81 
  Long-term debt issued by VIE - Floating rate 
2015   1.606 
  10 
   - 
  Mortgage notes and other debt of subsidiaries 
2013-2018 
3.50-6.00
  136 
   129 
    Total long-term debt - Other consolidated subsidiaries 
   6,394 
   5,539 
      Total long-term debt 
 $  127,379  
  125,354  
 (1) On March 30, 2009, Wells Fargo issued $1.75 billion of 2.125% fixed senior unsecured notes and $1.75 billion of floating senior
 unsecured notes that matured on 
June 15, 2012. These notes were guaranteed under the Federal De
posit Insurance Corporation’s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity Guarant
ee Program (TLGP) and were backed by 
the full faith and credit of the United States. 
(2) A significant portion consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity, commodity,
 or currency index, or basket of indices 
accounted for separately from the note as a free-standing deriva
tive. For information on embedded derivatives, see Note 16 – Fr
ee-standing derivatives.  In addition, a 
major portion consists of zero coupon callable notes where interest is paid as part of the final redemption amount. 
(3) Represents junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly owned trusts formed for the sole purpose of issuing tru
st preferred securities. See Note 8 for 
additional information on our trust preferred security structures. 
(4) Represents floating-rate extendible notes where holders of the no
tes may elect to extend the contractual maturity of all or a p
ortion of the principal amount on a periodic 
basis. The maturity of the notes may not be extended beyond 2018. 
  The aggregate carrying value of long-term debt that matures 
(based on contractual payment dates) as of December 31, 2012, 

in each of the following five years and thereafter, is presented in 

the following table. 
 (in millions)
  Parent 
Company 
2013 $  10,192  
 15,961  
2014   7,821  
 15,579  
2015   8,582  
 12,763  
2016   13,510  
 17,864  
2017   9,283  
 13,454  
Thereafter 
  26,845  
 51,758  
 Total 
$  76,233  
 127,379  
 As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing 
arrangements, we are subject to various financial and 

operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which 

debt has been issued have provis
ions that may limit the merger 
or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of capital 

stock or convertible securities by
 certain subsidiary banks. At 
December 31, 2012, we were 
in compliance with all the 
covenants. 
186   Note 14:  Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 
 Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make 
payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in 

an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are 

generally in the form of standb
y letters of credit, securities 
lending and other indemnificat
ions, liquidity agreements, 
written put options, recourse obligations, residual value 
guarantees, and contingent consideration. The following table 

shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our 

guarantees and the related non-investment grade amounts. 
                  December 31,
       2012 
  2011  
      Maximum exposure to loss 
  Maximum exposure to loss 
       Non- 
  Non- 
     Carrying 
investment 
 Carrying 
investment 
(in millions) 
 value 
Total
grade 
 value 
Total
grade (1) 
Standby letters of credit (2) 
$  42  
 39,759 
 11,331  
  85  
 41,171 
 13,250  
Securities lending and other indemnifications 
  -   2,541 
 118  
  -  
 669 
 62  
Liquidity agreements (3) 
  -   3 
 3  
  -  
 2 
 2  
Written put options (3)(4) 
  1,427  
 11,874 
 3,953  
  1,469  
 8,224 
 2,466  
Loans and MHFS sold with recourse 
  99  
 5,873 
 3,905  
  102  
 5,784 
 3,850  
Residual value guarantees 
  -   -  -    8  
 197 
 -  
Contingent consideration 
  35  
 129 
 129  
  31  
 98 
 97  
Other guarantees   3  
 1,421 
 4  
  6  
 552 
 4  
 Total guarantees 
$  1,606  
 61,600 
 19,443  
  1,701  
 56,697 
 19,731  
(1) Amounts have been revised from what was previously reported to reflect better alignment of our internal rating process to exter
nal noninvestment grade ratings. 
(2) Total maximum exposure to loss includes direct pay letters of credit (DPLCs) of $18.5 billion and $19.7 billion at December 31,
 2012 and 2011, respectively. We issue DPLCs 
to provide credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. Beneficiaries (bond trustees) may draw upon these instruments to mak
e scheduled principal and interest 
payments, redeem all outstanding bonds because a default event has occurred, or for other reasons as permitted by the agreement
. We also originate multipurpose lending 
commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw on the fac
ility in one of several forms, including as a standby letter of credit. Total maximum exposure to loss 
includes the portion of these facilities for which we have issued standby letters of credit under the commitments. 
(3) Certain of these agreements included in this table are related 
to off-balance sheet entities and, accordingly, are also disclos
ed in Note 8. 
(4) Written put options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative disclosures in Note 16. 
 “Maximum exposure to loss” and “Non-investment grade” are 
required disclosures under GAAP. Non-investment grade 
represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk of 

being required to perform unde
r the terms of the guarantee. If 
the underlying assets under the guarantee are non-investment 
grade (that is, an external rating that is below investment grade 

or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent to a below 

investment grade external rating), we consider the risk of 

performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are 

determined based upon the same cr
edit policies that we use to 
evaluate the risk of payment or performance when making loans 

and other extensions of credit. Th
ese credit policies are further 
described in Note 6. 

 Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that 

would be incurred under an assu
med hypothetical circumstance, 
despite what we believe is its extremely remote possibility, where 

the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines 

to zero. Maximum exposure to loss estimates in the table above 

do not reflect economic hedges 
or collateral we could use to 
offset or recover losses we may incur under our guarantee 

agreements. Accordingly, this re
quired disclosure is not an 
indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which 

is either fair value for derivative related products or the 

allowance for lending related commitments, is more 
representative of our exposure to loss than maximum exposure 
to loss.  

 STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT
  We issue standby letters of 
credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for 

customers in connection with co
ntracts between our customers 
and third parties. Standby letters 
of credit are agreements where 
we are obligated to make payment 
to a third party on behalf of a 
customer in the event the customer fails to meet their 

contractual obligations. We consid
er the credit risk in standby 
letters of credit and commercial an
d similar letters of credit in 
determining the allowance for cred
it losses. Standby letters of 
credit include direct pay letters 
of credit we issue to provide 
credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. The terms of 

our standby letters of credit are predominantly five years or less. 

 SECURITIES LENDING AND OTHER INDEMNIFICATIONS
  As a securities lending agent, we lend debt and equity securities from 

participating institutional clie
nts’ portfolios to third-party 
borrowers. These arrangements are for an indefinite period of 

time whereby we indemnify our clients against default by the 

borrower in returning these lent securities. This indemnity is 

supported by collateral received from the borrowers and is 

generally in the form of cash or highly liquid securities that are 

marked to market daily. Substant
ially all of these securities are 
returned to our clients within one year from trade date. There 

was $443 million at December 
31, 2012, and $687 million at 
December 31, 2011, in collatera
l supporting loaned securities 
with values of $436 million and $669 million, respectively. 

 Commencing third quarter 20
12, we began using certain 
third party clearing agents to clear and settle transactions on 
187Note 14:  Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral 
(continued) 
  behalf of some of our institutional brokerage customers. We 
indemnify the clearing agents against loss that could occur for 

non-performance by our customers on transactions that are not 

sufficiently collateralized. These arrangements are for an 

indefinite period. Transactions 
subject to the indemnifications 
may include customer obligations related to the settlement of 

margin accounts and short position
s, such as written call options 
and securities borrowing transactions. Outstanding customer 

obligations and related collateral were $579 million and $3.1 

billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. Our estimate of 

maximum exposure to loss, whic
h requires judgment regarding 
the range and likelihood of future events, was $2.1 billion as of 

December 31, 2012.  

 We enter into other types of 
indemnification agreements in 
the ordinary course of busine
ss under which we agree to 
indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and 
expenses incurred in connec
tion with legal and other 
proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us. 

These relationships or transactions include those arising from 

service as a director or officer of the Company, underwriting 

agreements relating to our securities, acquisition agreements 

and various other business transactions or arrangements. 

Because the extent of our obligations under these agreements 
depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, we are 
unable to determine our potential future liability under these 

agreements. We do, however, record a liability for residential 

mortgage loans that we expect to repurchase pursuant to various 

representations and warranties. See Note 9 for additional 

information on the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. 

 LIQUIDITY AGREEMENTS
  We provide liquidity facilities on all 
commercial paper issued by the 
conduit we administer. We also 
provide liquidity to certain off-ba
lance sheet entities that hold 
securitized fixed-rate munici
pal bonds and consumer or 
commercial assets that are partially
 funded with the issuance of 
money market and other short-term notes. See Note 8 for 
additional information on these arrangements. 

 WRITTEN PUT OPTIONS
  Written put options are contracts that 
give the counterparty the right to sell to us an underlying 

instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and 

include options, floors, caps an
d credit default swaps. These 
written put option contracts ge
nerally permit net settlement. 
While these derivative transactions 
expose us to risk in the event 
the option is exercised, we mana
ge this risk by entering into 
offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying 

instrument. We offset substantially all put options written to 

customers with purchased options.
 Additionally, for certain of 
these contracts, we require th
e counterparty to pledge the 
underlying instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our 

ultimate obligation under written put options is based on future 

market conditions and is only 
quantifiable at settlement. The 
terms of our written put options are largely five years or less. See 

Note 8 for additional information regarding transactions with 

VIEs and Note 16 for additional information regarding written 

derivative contracts.   
 LOANS AND MHFS SOLD WITH RECOURSE
  In certain loan sales 
or securitizations, we provide re
course to the buyer whereby we 
are required to indemnify the buyer for any loss on the loan up 

to par value plus accrued interest. We provide recourse, 

predominantly to the GSEs, on loans sold under various 

programs and arrangements. Primarily all of these programs and 

arrangements require that we share in the loans’ credit exposure 

for their remaining life by provid
ing recourse to the GSE, up to 
33.33% of actual losses incurred on a pro-rata basis, in the event 
of borrower default. Under the remaining recourse programs 

and arrangements, if certain events occur within a specified 

period of time from transfer date, we have to provide limited 

recourse to the buyer to indemnify them for losses incurred for 

the remaining life of the loans. The maximum exposure to loss 

reported in the acco
mpanying table represents the outstanding 
principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are subject 

to recourse provisions or the maximum losses per the 

contractual agreements. However, we believe the likelihood of 

loss of the entire balance due to these recourse agreements is 

remote and amounts paid can be 
recovered in whole or in part 
from the sale of collateral. Our recourse arrangements remain in 

effect as long as the loans are outstanding, which predominantly 

have remaining terms in excess 
of five years. During 2012, we 
repurchased $26 million of loans associated with these 
agreements. We also provide representation and warranty 

guarantees on loans sold under the various recourse programs 

and arrangements. Our loss exposure relative to these 

guarantees is separately considered and provided for, as 

necessary, in determination of our liability for loan repurchases 

due to breaches of representation and warranties. See Note 9 for 

additional information on the liability for mortgage loan 

repurchase losses. 

  RESIDUAL VALUE GUARANTEES
 We have provided residual 
value guarantees as part of certain leasing transactions of 

corporate assets. The lessors in these leases are generally large 

financial institutions or thei
r leasing subsidiaries. These 
guarantees protect the lessor from loss on sale of the related 

asset at the end of the lease term. To the extent that a sale of the 

leased assets results in proceeds less than a stated percent 

(generally 80% to 89%) of the asset’s cost, we would be required 

to reimburse the lessor under our guarantee. In November 2012, 

the purchase options on the leasing transactions related to these 

residual value guarantees were exercised; therefore we no longer 

have any exposure related to these guarantees. 

 CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION
  In connection with certain 
brokerage, asset management, insurance agency and other 

acquisitions we have made, 
the terms of the acquisition 
agreements provide for deferred payments or additional 

consideration, based on certain performance targets.  

 OTHER GUARANTEES
  We are members of exchanges and 
clearing houses that we use to clear our trades and those of our 

customers. It is common that a
ll members in these organizations 
are required to collectively guarantee the performance of other 

members. Our obligations under the guarantees are based on 
either a fixed amount or a multiple of the collateral we are 
188    required to maintain with thes
e organizations. We have not 
recorded a liability for these arrangements as of the dates 

presented in the previous table be
cause we believe the likelihood 
of loss is remote. 

 We also have contingent performance arrangements related 

to various customer relationships and lease transactions. We are 

required to pay the counterpartie
s to these agreements if third 
parties default on certain obligations. 
 Pledged Assets and Collateral 
As part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge assets to 
secure trust and public deposits
, borrowings from the FHLB and 
FRB and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. The 

following table provides pledged loans and securities available 

for sale where the secured party does not have the right to sell or 

repledge the collateral. At December 31, 2012, and 2011, we did 

not pledge any loans or securities available for sale where the 

secured party has the right to sell or repledge the collateral. The 

table excludes pledged assets rela
ted to VIEs, which can only be 
used to settle the liabilities of
 those entities. See Note 8 for 
additional information on
 consolidated VIE assets. 
    December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012  
  2011 
 Securities available for sale 
$  96,018  
  80,540 
 Loans 
  360,171  
  317,742 
  Total 
$  456,189  
  398,282 
       We also pledge certain financial instruments that we own to 
collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities 

financings. The types of collateral we pledge include securities 

issued by federal agencies, go
vernment-sponsored entities 
(GSEs), and domestic and fore
ign companies. We pledged 
$27.4 billion at December 3
1, 2012, and $20.8 billion at 
December 31, 2011, under agreem
ents that permit the secured 
parties to sell or repledge the collateral. Pledged collateral where 

the secured party cannot sell or
 repledge was $677 million and 
$2.8 billion at the same period ends, respectively. 

 We receive collateral from other entities under short-term 

(generally less than one year) and long-term resale agreements 

and securities borrowings. At De
cember 31, 2012 and 2011, we 
have received $46.6 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively, in 

collateral that we have the right to sell or repledge, of which 
$15.5 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively, are for long-term 
resale agreements. These amounts include securities we have 

sold or repledged to others with a fair value of $29.7 billion at 

December 31, 2012, and $16.7 billion at December 31, 2011. 
189   Note 15:  Legal Actions 
 Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a 
number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings 
concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business 

activities. These proceedings include actions brought against 

Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect to corporate 
related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or 
our subsidiaries were involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our 

subsidiaries may be requeste
d to provide information or 
otherwise cooperate with governme
nt authorities in the conduct 
of investigations of other persons or industry groups. 

 Although there can be no as
surance as to the ultimate 
outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries have generally 

denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny, 

liability in all significant litiga
tion pending against us, including 
the matters described below, and we intend to defend vigorously 

each case, other than matters we
 describe as having settled. 
Reserves are established for legal claims when payments 

associated with the claims become
 probable and the costs can be 
reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims 

may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved 

for those claims. 

 FHA INSURANCE LITIGATION
  On October 9, 2012, the United 
States filed a complaint, captioned 
United States of America v.
 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
, in the U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of New York. 
The complaint makes claims with 
respect to Wells Fargo’s Federa
l Housing Administration (FHA) 
lending program for the period 
2001 to 2010. The complaint 
alleges, among other allegations, that Wells Fargo improperly 

certified certain FHA mortgage loans for United States 

Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 

insurance that did not qualify for the program, and therefore 

Wells Fargo should not have received insurance proceeds from 

HUD when some of the loans la
ter defaulted. The complaint 
further alleges Wells Fargo knew 
some of the mortgages did not 
qualify for insurance 
and did not disclose the deficiencies to 
HUD before making insurance 
claims. On December 1, 2012, 
Wells Fargo filed a motion in the U.S. District Court for the 

District of Columbia seeking to enforce a release of Wells Fargo 

given by the United States, which was denied on 

February 12, 2013. On December 14, 2012, the United States 

filed an amended complaint. On January 16, 2013, Wells Fargo 

filed a motion in the Southern Di
strict of New York to dismiss 
the amended complaint.   

 INTERCHANGE LITIGATION  
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells 
Fargo & Company, Wachovia 
Bank, N.A. and Wachovia 
Corporation are named as defendants, separately or in 

combination, in putative class 
actions filed on behalf of a 
plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by 
individual merchants with regard to the interchange fees 

associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. 

These actions have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court 

for the Eastern District of New York. Visa, MasterCard and 

several banks and bank hold
ing companies are named as 
defendants in various of these actions. The amended and 
consolidated complaint asserts cl
aims against defendants based 
on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and seeks 

damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege 

that Visa, MasterCard and payment card issuing banks 

unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege 

that enforcement of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and 

alleged tying and bundling of se
rvices offered to merchants are 
anticompetitive. Wells Fargo an
d Wachovia, along with other 
defendants and entities, are 
parties to Loss and Judgment 
Sharing Agreements, which provide that they, along with other 

entities, will share, based on a formula, in any losses from the 
Interchange Litigation. On July 13, 2012, Visa, MasterCard and 
the financial institut
ion defendants, including Wells Fargo, 
signed a memorandum of unde
rstanding with plaintiff 
merchants to resolve the consolidated class actions and reached 

a separate settlement in principle of the consolidated individual 

actions. The proposed settlement payments by all defendants in 

the consolidated class and individu
al actions total approximately 
$6.6 billion. The class settlement also provides for the 

distribution to class merchants of 10 basis points of default 
interchange across all credit rate categories for a period of eight 
consecutive months. The Court has granted preliminary 

approval of the settlements. The settlements are subject to 

further review and approval by the Court. 
 MEDICAL CAPITAL CORPORATION LITIGATION  
Wells Fargo 
Bank, N.A. served as indenture trustee for debt issued by 

affiliates of Medical Capital Corporation, which was placed in 

receivership at the request of
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) in August 2009. Since September 2009, 
Wells Fargo has been named as a defendant in various class and 
mass actions brought by holders of Medical Capital 

Corporation’s debt, alleging that Wells Fargo breached 

contractual and other legal obligations owed to them and seeking 

unspecified damages. The actions 
have been consolidated in the 
U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. On 
July 26, 2011, the District Court 
certified a class 
consisting of 
holders of notes issued by affiliates of Medical Capital 

Corporation and, on October 18, 
2011, the Ninth Circuit Court of 
Appeals denied a petition seeking to appeal the class certification 

order. A previously disclosed potential settlement of the case was 

not consummated and the case is in discovery. 

 MARYLAND MORTGAGE LENDING LITIGATION  
On December 26, 2007, a class action complaint captioned 
Denise Minter, et 
al., v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., et al.,
 was filed in the U.S. 
District Court for the District of
 Maryland. The complaint alleges 
that Wells Fargo and others violated provisions of the Real 
Estate Settlement Procedures Act 
and other laws by conducting 
mortgage lending business im
properly through a general 
partnership, Prosperity Mortgage Company. The complaint 

asserts that Prosperity Mortgage Company was not a legitimate 

affiliated business and instead operated to conceal Wells Fargo 

Bank, N.A.’s role in the loans at issue. A plaintiff class of 

borrowers who received a mortgage loan from Prosperity that 

was funded by Prosperity’s line of
 credit with Wells Fargo Bank, 
190    N.A. from 1993 to May 31, 2012 has been certified. The Court has 
scheduled a trial in this case for May 6, 2013. A second, related 

case is also pending in the same 
Court. On July 8, 2008, a class 
action complaint captioned 
Stacey and Bradley Petry, et al., v. 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., et al.,
 was filed. The complaint alleges 
that Wells Fargo and others violated the Maryland Finder’s Fee 

Act in the closing of mortgage loans in Maryland. The Court 

certified a plaintiff class of borrowers whose loans are secured by 

Maryland real property, which loans showed Prosperity 

Mortgage Company as the lender receiving a fee for services, and 

were funded through a Wells Fargo line of credit to Prosperity 

from 1993 to May 31, 2012. The Court has scheduled a trial in 

this case for March 18, 2013. 

 MORTGAGE-BACKED CERTIFICATES LITIGATION  
Several 
securities law based putative class actions were consolidated in 

the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California on 

July 16, 2009, under the caption 
In re Wells Fargo Mortgage-
Backed Certificates Litigation
. The case asserted claims against 
several Wells Fargo mortgage backed securities trusts, Wells 

Fargo Bank, N.A. and other affiliated entities, individual 

employee defendants, along with various underwriters and 

rating agencies. The plaintiffs alleged that the offering 

documents contain untrue statements
 of material fact, or omit to 
state material facts necessary to make the registration 

statements and accompanying pr
ospectuses not misleading. The 
parties agreed to settle the case on May 27, 2011, for 

$125 million. Final approval of the settlement was entered on 
November 14, 2011. Some class members opted out of the 

settlement, with the most significant being the Federal National 

Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan 

Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). 

 On June 29, 2010, and on July 15, 2010, two complaints, the 

first captioned 
The Charles Schwab Corporation vs. Merrill 
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., et al., 
and the second 
captioned 
The Charles Schwab Corporation v. BNP 
ParibasSecurities Corp., et al., 
were filed in the Superior Court 
for the State of California, San Francisco County against a 
number of defendants, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and 

Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation. As against the Wells 

Fargo entities, the new cases assert opt out claims relating to the 

claims alleged in the Mortgage-Ba
cked Certificates Litigation. 
 On October 15, 2010, three actions, captioned 
Federal Home 
Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of America Funding 

Corporation, et al. 
(filed in the Cook Coun
ty Circuit Court, State 
of Illinois); 
Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of 
America Securities LLC, et al. 
(filed in the Superior Court of the 
State of California for the 
County of Los Angeles); and 
Federal 
Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis v. Banc of America Mortgage 

America Securities, Inc., et al. 
(filed in the Superior Court of the 
State of Indiana for the County
 of Marion), named multiple 
defendants, described as issuers/depositors, and 

underwriters/dealers of private label mortgage-backed 

securities, in an action asserting claims that defendants used 

false and misleading statements 
in offering documents for the 
sale of such securities. Plaintiffs seek rescission of the sales and 

damages under state securities an
d other laws and Section 11 of 
the Securities Act of 1933. Wells Fargo Asset Securities 
Corporation, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo & 
Company were named among the defendants. On April 20, 2011, 

a case captioned Federal Home Loan of Boston v. Ally 
Financial, Inc., et al.
, was filed in the Superior Court of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts fo
r the County of Suffolk. The 
case names, among a large number of parties, Wells Fargo & 

Company, Wells Fargo Asset Securitization Corporation and 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as parties and contains allegations 
substantially similar to the cases 
filed by the other Federal Home 
Loan Banks. 

 In addition, there are other mortgage-related threatened or 

asserted claims by entities or investors where Wells Fargo may 

have indemnity or repurchase obligations, or as to which it has 

entered into agreements to toll the relevant statutes of 

limitations. 
 MORTGAGE FORECLOSURE DOCUMENT LITIGATION  
Eight purported class actions and several individual borrower actions 

related to foreclosure document p
ractices were filed in late 2010 
and in early 2011 against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its status as 

mortgage servicer or corporate trustee of mortgage trusts. The 

cases were brought in state and 
federal courts. All eight cases 
have been dismissed or otherwise resolved. 

 MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS  
Government agencies and authorit
ies continue investigations or 
examinations of certain mortgage related practices of Wells 

Fargo. Wells Fargo, for itself and for predecessor institutions, 

has responded, and continues to
 respond, to requests from 
government agencies seeking information regarding the 

origination, underwriting and securitization of residential 

mortgages, including su
b-prime mortgages. On 
February 24, 2012, Wells Fargo received a Wells Notice from 

SEC Staff relating to Wells Fargo’s disclosures in mortgage-

backed securities offering docu
ments. On November 20, 2012, 
the SEC Staff advised Wells Fargo it
 did not intend to take action 
on the subject matter of the Wells Notice. 

 IN RE MUNICIPAL DERIVATIVES ANTITRUST LITIGATION  
Wachovia Bank, along with several other banks and financial 

services companies, was named 
as a defendant beginning in 
April 2008 in a number of substa
ntially identical purported class 
actions and individual actions filed in various state and federal 

courts by various municipaliti
es alleging they have been 
damaged by alleged anticompetitiv
e activity of the defendants. 
These cases were either consolidated under the caption 
In re 
Municipal Derivatives Antitrust Litigation 
or administered jointly with that action in th
e U.S. District Court for the 
Southern District of New York. The plaintiffs and Wells Fargo 

agreed to settle the 
In re Municipal Derivatives Antitrust 
Litigation 
on October 21, 2011. The settlement received final 
approval on December 14, 2012
. A number of municipalities 
have opted out of the settlement, but the remaining potential 

claims are not material. 

 ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION  
A series of putative class 
actions have been filed against Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wells 

Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other banks, challenging the 
191Note 15:  Legal Actions 
(continued) 
  high to low order in which the Ba
nks post debit card transactions 
to consumer deposit accounts. Th
ere are currently several such 
cases pending against Wells Fargo 
Bank (including the Wachovia 
Bank cases to which Wells Fargo 
succeeded), most of which have 
been consolidated in multi-district
 litigation proceedings in the 
U.S. District Court for the Southern
 District of Florida. The bank 
defendants moved to compel th
ese cases to arbitration under 
recent Supreme Court authority.
 On November 22, 2011, the 
Judge denied the motion. The Banks appealed the decision to 

the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. On October 

26, 2012, the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the District Court’s 

denial of the motion. 

 On August 10, 2010, the U.S. Di
strict Court for the Northern 
District of California issued an order in 
Gutierrez v. Wells Fargo 
Bank, N.A.
, a case that was not consoli
dated in the multi-district 
proceedings, enjoining the Bank’s use of the high to low posting 

method for debit card transactions with respect to the plaintiff 

class of California depositors, di
recting that the Bank establish a 
different posting methodology and ordering remediation of 

approximately $203 million. On October 26, 2010, a final 

judgment was entered in Gutierrez. On October 28, 2010, Wells 

Fargo appealed to the U.S. Co
urt of Appeals for the Ninth 
Circuit. On December 26, 2012, the Ninth Circuit reversed the 
order requiring Wells Fargo to ch
ange its order of posting and 
vacated the portion of the or
der granting remediation of 
approximately $203 million on the grounds of federal pre-

emption. The Ninth Circuit affirmed
 the District Court’s finding 
that Wells Fargo violated a Cali
fornia state law prohibition on 
fraudulent representations and rema
nded the case to the District 
Court for further proceedings. 

 SECURITIES LENDING LITIGATION  
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is 
involved in several separate pending actions brought by 

securities lending customers of 
Wells Fargo and Wachovia Bank 
in various courts. In general, each of the cases alleges that Wells 

Fargo violated fiduciary and cont
ractual duties by investing 
collateral for loaned securities in investments that suffered 

losses. In addition, on March 27, 2012, a class of Wells Fargo 

securities lending customers was 
certified in a case captioned 
City of Farmington Hills Employees Retirement System v. Wells 

Fargo Bank, N.A.
, which is pending in the U.S. District Court for 
the District of Minnesota. Wells Fargo sought interlocutory 

review of the class certification 
in the U.S. Court of Appeals for 
the Eighth Circuit. The Eighth Circuit declined such review on 

May 7, 2012.  
 OUTLOOK  
When establishing a liabilit
y for contingent litigation 
losses, the Company determines a range of potential losses for 

each matter that is both probable
 and estimable, and records the 
amount it considers to be the best estimate within the range. The 

high end of the range of reasonably possible potential litigation 

losses in excess of the Company’s liability for probable and 

estimable losses was $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2012. For 

these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is 

reasonably possible but not probable, there may be a range of 

possible losses in excess of the 
established liability that cannot 
be estimated. Based on informatio
n currently available, advice of 
counsel, available insurance coverage and established reserves, 

Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of the actions 

against Wells Fargo and/or its subsidiaries, including the 

matters described above, will no
t, individually or in the 
aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo’s 

consolidated financial position. However, in the event of 

unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate 

resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may be material to 

Wells Fargo’s results of operations for any particular period. 
192   Note 16:  Derivatives 
 We primarily use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, 
interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, and to 

assist customers with their risk management objectives. We 

designate derivatives either as hedging instruments in a 

qualifying hedge accounting relati
onship (fair value or cash flow 
hedge) or as free-standing deriva
tives. Free-standing derivatives 
include economic hedges that
 do not qualify for hedge 
accounting and derivatives held 
for customer accommodation or 
other trading purposes. 

 Our asset/liability management approach to interest rate, 

foreign currency and certain other risks includes the use of 

derivatives. Such derivatives ar
e typically designated as fair 
value or cash flow hedges, 
or free-standing derivatives 
(economic hedges) for those th
at do not qualify for hedge 
accounting. This helps minimi
ze significant, unplanned 
fluctuations in earnings, fair valu
es of assets and liabilities, and 
cash flows caused by interest 
rate, foreign currency and other 
market value volatility. This approach involves modifying the 

repricing characteristics of certain assets and liabilities so that 

changes in interest rates, foreign currency and other exposures 

do not have a significantly adverse effect on the net interest 

margin, cash flows and earnings. As a result of fluctuations in 

these exposures, hedged assets an
d liabilities will gain or lose 
market value. In a fair value or economic hedge, the effect of this 
unrealized gain or loss will generally be offset by the gain or loss 

on the derivatives linked to the he
dged assets and liabilities. In a 
cash flow hedge, where we ma
nage the variability of cash 
payments due to interest rate fluctuations by the effective use of 

derivatives linked to hedged assets
 and liabilities, the unrealized 
gain or loss on the derivatives or the hedged asset or liability is 

generally reflected in other co
mprehensive income and not in 
earnings. 
 We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, 
commodity, equity, credit and fore
ign exchange contracts, to our 
customers as part of our trading businesses but usually offset our 

exposure from such contracts by entering into other financial 

contracts. These derivative tran
sactions are conducted in an 
effort to help customers manage their market price risks. The 

customer accommodations and 
any offsetting derivative 
contracts are treated 
as free-standing derivatives. To a much 
lesser extent, we take positions executed for our own account 

based on market expectations
 or to benefit from price 
differentials between financial instruments and markets. 

Additionally, free-standing 
derivatives include embedded 
derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from 
their host contracts. 
 The following table presents the total notional or contractual 

amounts and fair values for our derivatives. Derivative 

transactions can be measured in
 terms of the notional amount, 
but this amount is not recorded 
on the balance sheet and is not, 
when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk 

profile of the instruments. The notional amount is generally not 

exchanged, but is used only as 
the basis on which interest and 
other payments are determined. Derivatives designated as 

qualifying hedge contracts and free-standing derivatives 

(economic hedges) are recorded 
on the balance sheet at fair 
value in other assets or other liabilities. Customer 

accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives are 

recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in trading assets, 
other assets or other liabilities.
 193Note 16:  Derivatives 
(continued) 
                                December 31,
         2012 
   2011  
      Notional or
   Fair value 
Notional or
 Fair value 
      contractual
   Asset 
Liability 
contractual
 Asset 
Liability 
(in millions) 
  amount
  derivatives 
derivatives 
 amount 
 derivatives 
derivatives 
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments
             Interest rate contracts (1) 
$  92,004  
   7,284  
 2,696  
  87,537  
  8,423  
 2,769  
 Foreign exchange contracts 
  27,382 
    1,808  
 274  
  22,269  
  1,523  
 572  
Total derivatives designated as 
            qualifying hedging instruments 
     9,092  
 2,970  
    9,946  
 3,341  
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
             Free-standing derivatives (economic hedges): 
             Interest rate contracts (2) 
  334,555 
    450  
 694  
  377,497  
  2,318  
 2,011  
  Equity contracts 
  75 
    -   50  
  -  
  -  
 -  
  Foreign exchange contracts 
  3,074 
    3  
 64  
  5,833  
  250  
 3  
  Credit contracts - protection purchased 
  16 
    -   -    125  
  3  
 -  
  Other derivatives 
  2,296 
    -   78  
  2,367  
  -  
 117  
   Subtotal 
     453  
 886  
    2,571  
 2,131  
 Customer accommodation, trading and other 
             free-standing derivatives: 
             Interest rate contracts 
  2,774,783 
    63,617  
 65,305  
  2,425,144  
  81,336  
 83,834  
  Commodity contracts 
  90,732 
    3,456  
 3,590  
  77,985  
  4,351  
 4,234  
  Equity contracts 
  71,958 
    3,783  
 4,114  
  68,778  
  3,768  
 3,661  
  Foreign exchange contracts 
  166,061 
    3,713  
 3,241  
  140,704  
  3,151  
 2,803  
  Credit contracts - protection sold 
  26,455 
    315  
 2,623  
  38,403  
  319  
 5,178  
  Credit contracts - protection purchased 
  29,021 
    1,495  
 329  
  36,156  
  3,254  
 276  
   Subtotal 
     76,379  
 79,202  
    96,179  
 99,986  
Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
     76,832  
 80,088  
    98,750  
 102,117  
Total derivatives before netting 
     85,924  
 83,058  
    108,696  
 105,458  
Netting 
(3) 
     (62,108) 
 (71,116) 
    (81,143) 
 (89,990) 
    Total 
   $  23,816  
 11,942  
    27,553  
 15,468  
                 (1) Notional amounts presented exclude $4.7 billion at December 31, 2012, and $15.5 billion at December 31, 2011, of basis swaps th
at are combined with receive fixed-
rate/pay floating-rate swaps and designated as one hedging instrument. 
(2) Includes free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs, M
HFS, loans and other interests held. 
(3) Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, 
and related cash collateral, with the same counterparty subject 
to master netting arrangements. The amount of 
cash collateral netted against derivative assets and liabilities was $5.0 billion and $14.5 billion, respectively, at December 
31, 2012, and $6.6 billion and $15.4 billion, 
respectively, at December 31, 2011. 
194    Fair Value Hedges 
We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed-rate 
long-term debt and CDs to floati
ng rates to hedge our exposure 
to interest rate risk. We also enter into cross-currency swaps, 

cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to 
hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk 

associated with the issuance 
of non-U.S. dollar denominated 
long-term debt. In addition, we 
use interest rate swaps, cross-
currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward 

contracts to hedge against chan
ges in fair va
lue of certain 
investments in available-for-sale debt securities due to changes 
in interest rates, foreign currency rates, or both. We also use 

interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in fair value for 

certain mortgages held for sale. The entire derivative gain or loss 

is included in the assessment of
 hedge effectiveness for all fair 
value hedge relationships, except for those involving foreign-

currency denominated securities av
ailable for sale and long-term 
debt hedged with foreign currenc
y forward derivatives for which 
the component of the derivative 
gain or loss related to the 
changes in the difference between the spot and forward price is 

excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 

 We use statistical regression analysis to assess hedge 

effectiveness, both at inception 
of the hedging relationship and 
on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing 
the periodic change in fair value of the hedging instrument 
against the periodic changes in fair value of the asset or liability 

being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The 

assessment includes an evaluation
 of the quantitative measures 
of the regression results used to 
validate the conclusion of high 
effectiveness. 

 The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized in 

the income statement related to de
rivatives in fair value hedging 
relationships.
        Interest rate 
 Foreign exchange
 Total net
      contracts hedging: 
 contracts hedging: 
gains
           (losses)
      Securities 
Mortgages 
  Securities
 on fair
      available 
held 
Long-term 
 available
Long-term 
value
(in millions) 
 for sale 
for sale 
debt 
 for sale
debt 
hedges
Year ended December 31, 2012
        Gains (losses) recorded in net interest income
 $  (457) 
 (4) 
 1,685  
  (5)
 248  
 1,467 
Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income 
        Recognized on derivatives 
  (22) 
 (15) 
 (179) 
  39 
 567  
 390 
 Recognized on hedged item 
  17  
 6  
 233  
  (3)
 (610) 
 (357)
 Recognized on fair value hedges (ineffective portion) (1) 
$  (5) 
 (9) 
 54  
  36 
 (43) 
 33 
Year ended December 31, 2011 
      Gains (losses) recorded in net interest income 
$  (451) 
 -  
 1,659  
  (11)
 376  
 1,573 
Gains (losses) recorded in noninterest income 
        Recognized on derivatives 
  (1,298) 
 (21) 
 2,796  
  168 
 512  
 2,157 
 Recognized on hedged item 
  1,232  
 17  
 (2,616) 
  (186)
 (445) 
 (1,998)
 Recognized on fair value hedges (ineffective portion) (1) 
$  (66) 
 (4) 
 180  
  (18)
 67  
 159 
(1) Included $(9) million and $53 million, respectively, for year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, of gains (losses) on forward de
rivatives hedging foreign currency securities 
available for sale and long-term debt, representing the portion of derivative gains (losses) excluded from the assessment of he
dge effectiveness (time value). 
195Note 16:  Derivatives 
(continued) 
  Cash Flow Hedges 
We hedge floating-rate debt against future interest rate increases 
by using interest rate swaps, caps, floors and futures to limit 

variability of cash flows due 
to changes in the benchmark 
interest rate. We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge 

the variability in interest payments received on certain floating-

rate commercial loans, due to changes in the benchmark interest 

rate. Gains and losses on derivatives that are reclassified from 

OCI to interest inco
me and interest expense in the current 
period are included in the line 
item in which the hedged item’s 
effect on earnings is recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these 

derivatives are included in the a
ssessment of hedge effectiveness. 
We assess hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, both at 

inception of the hedging relation
ship and on an ongoing basis. 
The regression analysis involves regressing the periodic changes 

in cash flows of the hedging instrument against the periodic 
changes in cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged 
due to changes in the hedged risk
(s). The assessment includes an 
evaluation of the quantitative me
asures of the regression results 
used to validate the conclusi
on of high effectiveness. 
 Based upon current interest
 rates, we estimate that 
$350 million (pre tax) of deferred net gains on derivatives in OCI 
at December 31, 2012, will be recl
assified into interest income 
and interest expense during the next twelve months. Future 
changes to interest rates may significantly change actual 

amounts reclassified to earnings. We are hedging our exposure 

to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted 

transactions for a 
maximum of 5 years fo
r both hedges of 
floating-rate debt and floa
ting-rate commercial loans. 
 The following table shows the net gains (losses) recognized 

related to derivatives in cash
 flow hedging relationships.
       Year ended
     December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
2011  Gains (pre tax) recognized in OCI on derivatives 
$  52 
 190 
 Gains (pre tax) reclassified from cumulative OCI into net income (1) 
  388 
 571 
 Losses (pre tax) recognized in noninterest income on derivatives (2) 
  (1)
 (5)
  (1) Amounts were recorded in net interest income and noninterest expense.  
(2) None of the change in value of the derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 
 
 Free-Standing Derivatives 
We use free-standing derivatives (economic hedges), in addition 
to debt securities available for sale, to hedge the risk of changes 

in the fair value of certain residential MHFS, certain loans held 
for investment, residential MS
Rs measured at
 fair value, 
derivative loan commitments and other interests held. The 

resulting gain or loss on these economic hedges is reflected in 

mortgage banking noninterest income and other noninterest 

income. Changes in fair value of de
bt securities available for sale 
(unrealized gains and losses) ar
e not included in servicing 
income, but are reported in cumula
tive OCI (net of tax) or, upon 
sale, are reported in net gains (losses) on debt securities 

available for sale. 

 The derivatives used to hedge 
MSRs measured at fair value, 
which include swaps, swaptions, 
constant maturity mortgages, 
forwards, Eurodollar and Treasury futures and options 

contracts, resulted in net derivativ
e gains of $3.6 billion in 2012 
and $5.2 billion in 2011, which are
 included in mortgage banking 
noninterest income. The aggregate fair value of these derivatives 

was a net asset of $87 million at December 31, 2012, and a net 
asset of $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011. The change in fair 
value of these derivatives for each
 period end is due to changes 
in the underlying market indices and interest rates as well as the 

purchase and sale of derivative financial instruments throughout 

the period as part of our 
dynamic MSR risk management 
process.
  Interest rate lock commitments for residential mortgage 

loans that we intend to sell
 are considered free-standing 
derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan 

commitments, as well as substant
ially all residential MHFS, is 
hedged with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) such as 
swaps, forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and options, 
and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The 

commitments, free-standing deri
vatives and residential MHFS 
are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in 

mortgage banking noninterest income. For the fair value 

measurement of interest rate lock
 commitments we include, at 
inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the 

expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing 
of the loan. Fair value changes su
bsequent to inception are based 
on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the 

exercise of the commitment and ch
anges in the probability that 
the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment 

(referred to as a fall-out factor).
 The value of the underlying loan 
is affected primarily by changes 
in interest rates and the passage 
of time. However, changes in i
nvestor demand 
can also cause 
changes in the value of the underlying loan value that cannot be 

hedged. The aggregate fair value of derivative loan commitments 

in the balance sheet was a net asset of $497 million at 

December 31, 2012, and a net asset of $478 million at 
December 31, 2011, and is included in the caption “Interest rate 

contracts” under “Customer accommodation, trading and other 

free-standing derivatives” in 
the first table in this Note. 
 We also enter into various derivatives primarily to provide 

derivative products to customers. To a lesser extent, we take 

positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price 

differentials between financial instruments and markets. These 

derivatives are not linked to specif
ic assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet or to forecasted 
transactions in 
an accounting 
hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge 

accounting. We also enter into free-standing derivatives for risk 

management that do not otherwis
e qualify for hedge accounting. 
196    They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded 
as other noninterest income. 

 Free-standing derivatives also
 include embedded derivatives 
that are required to be accounted for separately from their host 

contract. We periodically issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs 

where the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked 

to an equity, commodity or curre
ncy index, or basket of such 
indices. These notes contain explicit
 terms that affect some or all 
of the cash flows or the value of 
the note in a manner similar to a 
derivative instrument and therefore are considered to contain an 

“embedded” derivative instrume
nt. The indices on which the 
performance of the hybrid inst
rument is calculated are not 
clearly and closely related to 
the host debt instrument. The 
“embedded” derivative is separat
ed from the host contract and 
accounted for as a free
-standing derivative. Additionally, we may 
invest in hybrid instruments th
at contain embedded derivatives, 
such as credit derivatives, that 
are not clearly and closely related 
to the host contract. In such inst
ances, we either elect fair value 
option for the hybrid instrument or separate the embedded 

derivative from the host cont
ract and account for the host 
contract and derivative separately. 

 The following table shows the net gains recognized in the 
income statement related to derivatives not designated as 
hedging instruments.
         Year ended
        December 31,
 (in millions) 
   2012  
 2011 
Net gains (losses) recognized on free-standing derivatives (economic hedges):
    Interest rate contracts  
    Recognized in noninterest income: 
     Mortgage banking (1) 
$  (1,882) 
 246 
   Other (2) 
  2  
 (157)
 Equity contracts (2) 
  4  
 (5)
 Foreign exchange contracts (2) 
  (53) 
 70 
 Credit contracts (2) 
  (15) 
 (18)
    Subtotal 
  (1,944) 
 136 
Net gains (losses) recognized on customer accommod
ation, trading and other free-standing derivatives:
    Interest rate contracts  
    Recognized in noninterest income: 
     Mortgage banking (3) 
  7,222 
  3,594 
   Other (4) 
  589 
  298 
 Commodity contracts (4) 
  (14) 
 124 
 Equity contracts (4) 
  (234) 
 769 
 Foreign exchange contracts (4) 
  501  
 698 
 Credit contracts (4) 
  (54) 
 (200)
 Other (4) 
  -   (5)
    Subtotal 
  8,010  
 5,278 
Net gains recognized related to derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
$  6,066  
 5,414 
(1) Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on the derivatives used as economic hedges of MSRs m
easured at fair value, interest rate lock 
commitments and mortgages held for sale. 
(2) Predominantly included in other noninterest income. 
(3) Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on interest rate lock commitments. 
(4) Predominantly included in net gains from trading activities in noninterest income. 
Credit Derivatives 
We use credit derivatives primarily to assist customers with their 
risk management objectives. We ma
y also use credit derivatives 
in structured product transact
ions or liquidity agreements 
written to special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of 

sold credit derivati
ves is managed through posted collateral, 
purchased credit derivatives and 
similar products in order to 
achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk 

management provides an ability to recover a significant portion 

of any amounts that would be paid under the sold credit 

derivatives. We would be requir
ed to perform under the noted 
credit derivatives in the event of default by the referenced 

obligors. Events of default incl
ude events such as bankruptcy, 
capital restructuring or lack of principal and/or interest 

payment. In certain cases, other 
triggers may exist, such as the 
credit downgrade of the referenced obligors or the inability of 
the special purpose vehicle for wh
ich we have provided liquidity 
to obtain funding.  
197Note 16:  Derivatives 
(continued) 
  The following table provides details of sold and purchased credit derivatives. 
         Notional amount
         Protection 
Protection 
           sold - 
purchased 
Net 
         non- 
with 
protection 
Other 
       Fair value
Protection 
investment 
identical 
sold 
protection 
Range of 
(in millions) 
 liability
sold (A) 
grade 
underlyings (B)
(A) - (B) 
purchased 
maturities 
December 31, 2012
        Credit default swaps on: 
        Corporate bonds 
$  240 
 15,845  
 8,448  
  9,636  
 6,209  
 7,701  
2013-2021 
 Structured products 
  1,787 
 2,433  
 2,039  
  948  
 1,485  
 393  
2016-2056 
Credit protection on: 
         Default swap index 
  4 
 3,520  
 348  
  3,444  
 76  
 616  
2013-2017 
 Commercial mortgage- 
           backed securities index 
  531 
 1,249  
 861  
  790  
 459  
 524  
2049-2052 
 Asset-backed securities index 
  57 
 64  
 64  
  6  
 58  
 92  
2037-2046 
Other 
  4 
 3,344  
 3,344  
  106  
 3,238  
 4,655  
2013-2056 
 Total credit derivatives 
$  2,623 
 26,455  
 15,104  
  14,930  
 11,525  
 13,981  
 December 31, 2011 
         Credit default swaps on: 
          Corporate bonds 
$  1,002 
 24,634  
 14,043  
  13,329  
 11,305  
 9,404  
2012-2021 
 Structured products 
  3,308 
 4,691  
 4,300  
  2,194  
 2,497  
 1,335  
2016-2056 
Credit protection on: 
         Default swap index 
  68 
 3,006  
 843  
  2,341  
 665  
 912  
2012-2017 
 Commercial mortgage-backed securities index 
  713 
 1,357  
 458  
  19  
 1,338  
 1,403  
2049-2052 
 Asset-backed securities index 
  76 
 83  
 83  
  8  
 75  
 116  
2037-2046 
Other 
  11 
 4,632  
 4,090  
  481  
 4,151  
 4,673  
2012-2056 
 Total credit derivatives 
$  5,178 
 38,403  
 23,817  
  18,372  
 20,031  
 17,843  
                Protection sold represents the estimated maximum exposure 
to loss that would be incurred 
under an assumed hypothetical 
circumstance, where the value of our interests and any 

associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration 

of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. We believe this 

hypothetical circumstan
ce to be an extremely remote possibility 
and accordingly, th
is required disclosure is
 not an indication of 
expected loss. The amounts under non-investment grade 

represent the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on 

which we have a higher risk of 
being required to perform under 
the terms of the credit derivative and are a function of the 

underlying assets.  
We consider the risk of performance to be high if the 
underlying assets under the credit
 derivative have an external 
rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit 

default grade that is equivalent thereto. We believe the net 

protection sold, which is representative of the net notional 

amount of protection sold 
and purchased with identical 
underlyings, in combination with 
other protection purchased, is 
more representative of our exposure to loss than either non-
investment grade or protection sold. Other protection purchased 

represents additional protection, which may offset the exposure 

to loss for protection sold, that was not purchased with an 

identical underlying of the protection sold.  
198     Credit-Risk Contingent Features 
Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if 

the credit rating of our debt were to be downgraded by certain 

major credit rating agencies, 
the counterparty could demand 
additional collateral or require termination or replacement of 

derivative instruments in a net 
liability position. The aggregate 
fair value of all derivative in
struments with su
ch credit-risk-
related contingent features that are in a net liability position was 
$16.2 billion at December 31, 2012, and $17.1 billion at 
December 31, 2011, respectively, for which we posted 

$14.3 billion and$15.0 billion, respectively, in collateral in the 
normal course of business. If th
e credit rating of our debt had 
been downgraded below investment grade, which is the credit-

risk-related contingent
 feature that if triggered requires the 
maximum amount of collateral to be posted, on 

December 31, 2012, or December 31, 2011, we would have been 
required to post a
dditional collateral of $1.9 billion or 
$2.1 billion, respectively, or pote
ntially settle the contract in an 
amount equal to its fair value. 

 Counterparty Credit Risk 
By using derivatives, we are expo
sed to counterparty credit risk 
if counterparties to the derivati
ve contracts do not perform as 
expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty 

credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset 

on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset 

are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent 

subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net 

of derivatives in a loss position
 with the same counterparty and 
cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk 

through credit approvals, li
mits, monitoring procedures, 
executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, 

where appropriate. To the extent the master netting 

arrangements and other criteria meet the applicable 

requirements, including determin
ing the legal enforceability of 
the arrangement, it is our policy to present derivatives balances 

and related cash collateral amou
nts net in the balance sheet. 
Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered in 

determining fair value and 
our assessment of hedge 
effectiveness.
 199   Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
 We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments 
to certain assets and liabilities and to determine fair value 

disclosures. Trading assets (excluding derivatives), securities 

available for sale, derivatives, substantially all residential MHFS, 

certain commercial LHFS, certain loans held for investment, fair 
value MSRs and securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale 
liabilities) are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. 

Additionally, from time to time, we
 may be required to record at 
fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain 

residential and commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for 

investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair 

value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-

or-market accounting 
or write-downs of individual assets.  
 Following are descriptions of the valuation methodologies 
used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a 

recurring or nonrecurring basis and for estimating fair value for 

financial instruments not recorded at fair value. 
 Assets 
SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS
  Short-term financial assets 
include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and 

securities purchased under resale agreements and due from 

customers on acceptances. These assets are carried at historical 

cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value 

because of the relatively short time between the origination of 
the instrument and its expected realization. 
 TRADING ASSETS (EXCLUDING DERIVATIVES) AND 
SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  
Trading assets and 
securities available for sale are recorded at fair value on a 

recurring basis. Fair value meas
urement is based upon various 
sources of market pricing. We use quoted prices in active 

markets, where available and classify such instruments within 
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples include exchange-
traded equity securities and some highly liquid government 

securities such as U.S. Treasuries. When instruments are traded 

in secondary markets and quoted market prices do not exist for 

such securities, we generally rely on internal valuation 

techniques or on prices obta
ined from third-party pricing 
services or brokers (collectively, vendors) or combination 

thereof, and accordingly, we classify these instruments as Level 2 

or 3. 

 Trading securities are mostly valued using internal trader 

prices that are subject to price 
verification procedures performed 
by separate internal personnel. The majority of fair values 

derived using internal valuation techniques are verified against 

multiple pricing sources, includ
ing prices obtained from third-
party vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and 

often apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is 

observable. We review pricing methodologies provided by the 

vendors in order to determine if observable market information 

is being used, versus unobservab
le inputs. When evaluating the 
appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with 

vendor prices, considerations include the range and quality of 

vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the 

reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing financial 
instruments involves judgments 
acquired from knowledge of a 
particular market. If a trader asserts that a vendor price is not 

reflective of market value, justification for using the trader price, 

including recent sales activity where possible, must be provided 

to and approved by the appropriate levels of management. 

 Similarly, while securities available for sale traded in 

secondary markets are typically valued using unadjusted vendor 

prices or vendor prices adjusted 
by weighting them with internal 
discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, 
if deemed inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge 

of a particular market, can be adjusted. Securities measured with 

these internal valuation techniques are generally classified as 

Level 2 of the hierarchy and often involve using quoted market 

prices for similar securities, pr
icing models, discounted cash 
flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market 

where available or combination of multiple valuation techniques. 

Examples include certain residential and commercial MBS, 

municipal bonds, U.S. govern
ment and agency MBS, and 
corporate debt securities. 

 Security fair value measurements using significant inputs 

that are unobservable in the market due to limited activity or a 

less liquid market are classified
 as Level 3 in the fair value 
hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using 

internal models or
 a combination of multiple valuation 
techniques such as weighting of 
internal models and vendor or 
broker pricing, where the unobservable inputs are significant to 

the overall fair value measurement.
 Securities classified as Level 
3 include certain residential an
d commercial MBS, asset-backed 
securities collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash 

reserves, CDOs and CLOs, and certain residual and retained 

interests in residential mortgage loan securitizations. We value 

CDOs using the prices of simil
ar instruments, the pricing of 
completed or pending third party 
transactions or the pricing of 
the underlying collateral within the CDO. Where vendor or 

broker prices are not readily available, we use management's 

best estimate. 
 MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)
  We carry substantially all 
of our residential MHFS portfolio at fair value. Fair value is 

based on quoted market prices, where available, or the prices for 

other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. As 
necessary, these prices are adjust
ed for typical securitization 
activities, including servicing value, portfolio composition, 

market conditions and liquidity. 
Most of our MHFS are classified 
as Level 2. For the portion where market pricing data is not 

available, we use a discounted cash
 flow model to estimate fair 
value and, accordingly, classify as Level 3. 
 LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)  
LHFS are carried at the lower of 
cost or market value, or at fair value. The fair value of LHFS is 

based on what secondary markets are currently offering for loans 

with similar characteristics. As such, we classify those loans 
subjected to nonrecurring fair value adjustments as Level 2. 
 LOANS  
For information on how we report the carrying value of 
loans, including PCI loans, see Note 1. Although most loans are 
200    not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, reverse mortgages 
are held at fair value on a recurring basis. In addition, we record 

nonrecurring fair value adjustments to loans to reflect partial 

write-downs that are based on the observable market price of the 

loan or current appraised value of the collateral. 

 We provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for loans 
that are not recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring 

basis. Those estimates differentiate loans based on their 

financial characteristics, such as product classification, loan 

category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Prepayment 

and credit loss estimates are eval
uated by product and loan rate. 
 The fair value of commercial loans is calculated by 

discounting contractual cash flow
s, adjusted for credit loss 
estimates, using discount rates that are appropriate for loans 

with similar characteristics and remaining maturity.  

For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages, we 

calculate fair value 
by discounting contractual cash flows, 
adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using 

discount rates based on current 
industry pricing (where readily 
available) or our own estimate of an appropriate discount rate 

for loans of similar size, type, remaining maturity and repricing 

characteristics. 

 The carrying value of credit card loans, which is adjusted for 
estimates of credit losses inherent
 in the portfolio at the balance 
sheet date, is reported as a reasonable estimate of fair value. For 

all other consumer loans, the fair value is generally calculated by 

discounting the contractual cash 
flows, adjusted for prepayment 
and credit loss estimates, based on
 the current rates we offer for 
loans with similar characteristics. 

 Loan commitments, standby le
tters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit generate ongoing fees at our current 

pricing levels, which are recognized over the term of the 

commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of the 

counterparty to a co
mmitment has declined, we record an 
allowance. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these 

instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related 

allowance. Certain letters of credit that are hedged with 

derivative instruments are carried at fair value in trading assets 

or liabilities. For those letters of credit, fair value is calculated 

based on readily quotable credit 
default spreads, using a market 
risk credit default swap model. 
 DERIVATIVES  
Quoted market prices are available and used for 
our exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate 

futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1. 

However, substantially all of our derivatives are traded in over-

the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted market prices are not 
always readily available. Therefore we value most OTC 

derivatives using internal va
luation techniques. Valuation 
techniques and inputs to intern
ally-developed models depend on 
the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or 

index upon which the derivative's 
value is based. Key inputs can 
include yield curves, credit cu
rves, foreign-exchange rates, 
prepayment rates, volatility measurements and correlation of 

such inputs. Where model inputs 
can be observed in a liquid 
market and the model does not 
require significant judgment, 
such derivatives are typically cla
ssified as Level 2 of the fair 
value hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 2 
include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, 
commodity swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. 

When instruments are traded in less liquid markets and 

significant inputs are unobservable, such derivatives are 

classified as Level 3. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 

include complex and highly structur
ed derivatives, certain credit 
default swaps, interest rate lo
ck commitments written for our 
residential mortgage loans that we
 intend to sell and long dated 
equity options where volatility is not observable. Additionally, 

significant judgments are required when classifying financial 

instruments within the fair value hierarchy, particularly between 

Level 2 and 3, as is the ca
se for certain derivatives. 
 MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS (MSRs) AND CERTAIN OTHER 
INTERESTS HELD IN SECURITIZATIONS  
MSRs and certain 
other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only strips) 

do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices. 

Accordingly, we dete
rmine the fair value of MSRs using a 
valuation model that calculates 
the present value of estimated 
future net servicing income cash
 flows. The model incorporates 
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future 

net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of 

prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount 

rate, default rates, cost to serv
ice (including delinquency and 
foreclosure costs), escrow ac
count earnings, contractual 
servicing fee income, ancillary in
come and late fees. Commercial 
MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market value, and therefore 

can be subject to fair value measurements on a nonrecurring 

basis. Changes in the fair value 
of MSRs occur primarily due to 
the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as well as 

changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For other interests 

held in securitizations (such as interest-only strips) we use a 
valuation model that calculates 
the present value of estimated 
future cash flows. The model incorporates our own estimates of 

assumptions market participants
 use in determining the fair 
value, including estimates of prep
ayment speeds, discount rates, 
defaults and contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are 
recorded as trading assets. Our valuation approach is validated 
by our internal valuation model validation group. Fair value 

measurements of our MSRs and interest-only strips use 

significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we classify 

them as Level 3.   
 FORECLOSED ASSETS  
Foreclosed assets are carried at net 
realizable value, which represents fair value less costs to sell. 

Fair value is generally based upon
 independent market prices or 
appraised values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify 

foreclosed assets as Level 2. 
 NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS  
Nonmarketable 
equity investments are generally recorded under the cost or 

equity method of accounting. Ther
e are generally restrictions on 
the sale and/or liquidation of
 these investments, including 
federal bank stock. Federal bank stock carrying value 

approximates fair value. We 
use facts and circumstances 
available to estimate the fair value of our nonmarketable equity 

investments. We typically consider
 our access to and need for 
capital (including recent or projected financing activity), 
201Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
  qualitative assessments of the viability of the investee, evaluation 
of the financial statements of the investee and prospects for its 

future. Public equity investme
nts are valued using quoted 
market prices and discounts are only applied when there are 

trading restrictions that are an attribute of the investment. We 

estimate the fair value of invest
ments in non-public securities 
using metrics such as security prices of comparable public 

companies, acquisition prices for similar companies and original 

investment purchase price multiples, while also incorporating a 

portfolio company's financial performance and specific factors. 

For investments in private equity funds, we use the NAV 

provided by the fund sponsor as an appropriate measure of fair 

value. In some cases, such NAVs
 require adjustments based on 
certain unobservable inputs. 
 Liabilities 
DEPOSIT LIABILITIES  
Deposit liabilities are carried at historical 
cost. The fair value of deposits wi
th no stated maturity, such as 
noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing checking, 
and market rate and other savings, is equal to the amount 

payable on demand at the measurement date. The fair value of 

other time deposits is calculated
 based on the discounted value 
of contractual cash flows. The 
discount rate is estimated using 
the rates currently offered for like wholesale deposits with 

similar remaining maturities. 
 SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  
Short-term financial 
liabilities are carried at historical cost and include federal funds 

purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, 

commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. The 

carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of 

the relatively short time between the origination of the 

instrument and its expected realization. 
 OTHER LIABILITIES  
Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a 
recurring basis, excluding de
rivative liabilities (see the 
“Derivatives” section for derivative
 liabilities), includes primarily 
short sale liabilities. Short sa
le liabilities are predominantly 
classified as either Level 1 or Level 2, generally dependent upon 

whether the underlying securities have readily obtainable quoted 

prices in active exchange markets. 
 LONG-TERM DEBT  
Long-term debt is generally carried at 
amortized cost. For disclosure, we are required to estimate the 

fair value of long-ter
m debt. Generally, the di
scounted cash flow 
method is used to estimate the 
fair value of ou
r long-term debt. 
Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates currently 

offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities and, as 

such, these discount rates include our current spread levels.   

 Level 3 Asset and Liability Valuation Processes 
 We generally determine fair value of our Level 3 assets and 
liabilities by using internally de
veloped models and, to a lesser 
extent, prices obtained from 
third-party pricing services or 
brokers (collectively, vendors). Our valuation processes vary 

depending on which appr
oach is utilized.  
 INTERNAL MODEL VALUATIONS 
Our internally developed 
models primarily consist of discou
nted cash flow techniques. Use 
of such techniques requires dete
rmining relevant inputs, some of 
which are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are generally 

derived from historic performance of similar assets or 

determined from previous market 
trades in similar instruments. 
These unobservable inputs usually consist of discount rates, 

default rates, loss severity upon default, volatilities, correlations 

and prepayment rates, which are inherent within our Level 3 

instruments. Such inputs can be 
correlated to similar portfolios 
with known historic experience or recent trades where particular 

unobservable inputs may be implied; but due to the nature of 

various inputs being reflected within a particular trade, the value 

of each input is considered unobservable. We attempt to 

correlate each unobservable inpu
t to historic experience and 
other third party data where available. 

 Internal valuation models are subject to review prescribed 

within our model risk manageme
nt policies and procedures 
which includes model validation. The purpose of model 

validation includes ensuring th
e model is appropriate for its 
intended use and the appropriate controls exist to help mitigate 

risk of invalid valuations. Model validation assesses the 

adequacy and appropriateness of the model, including reviewing 
its key components such as inpu
ts, processing components, logic 
or theory, output results and supporting model documentation. 

Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable 

model inputs are appropriate given observable market 

transactions or other market da
ta within the same or similar 
asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are appropriate 

given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with 

their intended purpose. 

 We have ongoing monitoring procedures in place for our 
Level 3 assets and liabilities that use such internal valuation 

models. These procedures, which are designed to provide 

reasonable assurance that models continue to perform as 

expected after approved, include:  

 ongoing analysis and benchmarking to market transactions 
and other independent market data (including pricing 

vendors, if available);  
 back-testing of modeled fair 
values to actual realized 
transactions; and  
 review of modeled valuation results against expectations, 
including review of significant 
or unusual value fluctuations.  
 
 We update model inputs and methodologies periodically to 

reflect these monitoring procedures. Additionally, procedures 

and controls are in place to ensure
 existing models are subject to 
periodic reviews, and we per
form full model revalidations as 
necessary. 

 All internal valuation models are subject to ongoing review 

by business-unit-level manageme
nt. More complex models are 
subject to additional oversight by a corporate-level risk 

management department. Corporat
e oversight responsibilities 
include evaluating adequacy of 
business unit risk management 
programs, maintaining company-wi
de model validation policies 
and standards and reporting the results of these activities to 

management and our Enterprise
 Risk Management Committee 
(ERMC). The ERMC, which consists of senior executive 
202    management and reports on top risks to the Company’s Board of 
Directors, monitors all company-
wide risks, including credit 
risk, market risk, and reputational risk.  
 VENDOR-DEVELOPED VALUATIONS 
In certain limited circumstances we obtain pricing 
from third party vendors for the 
value of our Level 3 assets or liabilities. We have processes in 

place to approve such vendors to ensure information obtained 

and valuation techniques used are appropriate. Once these 

vendors are approved to provide pricing information, we 

monitor and review the results to ensure the fair values are 

reasonable and in line with market experience in similar asset 

classes. While the input amounts 
used by the pricing vendor in 
determining fair value are not provided, and therefore 

unavailable for our review, we do perform one or more of the 

following procedures to vali
date the prices received:  
 comparison to other pricing vendors (if available);  
 variance analysis of prices;  
 corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent 
market data such as market
 transactions and relevant 
benchmark indices;  
 review of pricing by Company personnel familiar with 
market liquidity and other mar
ket-related conditions; and  
 investigation of prices on a specific instrument-by-
instrument basis.  
 Fair Value Measurements from Brokers or Third 
Party Pricing Services 
For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair value 
measurements from brokers or th
ird party pricing services and 
record the unadjusted fair value in our financial statements. The 

detail by level is shown in 
the table below. Fair value 
measurements obtained from br
okers or third party pricing 
services that we have adjusted to determine the fair value 

recorded in our financial statements are not included in the 

following table. 
         Brokers
 Third party pricing services 
(in millions) 
 Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3
December 31, 2012
         Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
$  -  406 
 8 
  1,314  
 1,016  
 - Securities available for sale: 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  -  -  -   915  
 6,231  
 -  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -  -  -   -   35,036  
 -  Mortgage-backed securities 
  -  138 
 4 
  -   121,703  
 292 
 Other debt securities 
  -  1,516 
 12,465 
  -   28,314  
 149 
  Total debt securities 
  -  1,654 
 12,469 
  915  
 191,284  
 441 
  Total marketable equity securities
   -  3 
 -   29  
 774  
 -    Total securities available for sale 
  -  1,657 
 12,469 
  944  
 192,058  
 441 
Derivatives (trading and other assets) 
  -  8 
 -   -   602  
 - Loans held for sale 
  -  -  -   -   -   - Derivatives (liabilities) 
  -  26 
 -   -   634  
 - Other liabilities  
  -  121 
 -   -   104  
 -                December 31, 2011 
        Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
$  - 
 446 
 7 
  1,086  
 1,564  
 - 
Securities available for sale: 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  - 
 - 
 - 
  868  
 5,748  
 - 
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  - 
 16 
 - 
  -  
 21,014  
 - 
 Mortgage-backed securities 
  - 
 2,342 
 43 
  -  
 118,107  
 186 
 Other debt securities 
  - 
 1,091 
 8,163 
  -  
 26,222  
 145 
  Total debt securities 
  - 
 3,449 
 8,206 
  868  
 171,091  
 331 
  Total marketable equity securities 
  - 
 - 
 - 
  33  
 665  
 3 
   Total securities available for sale
   - 
 3,449 
 8,206 
  901  
 171,756  
 334 
Derivatives (trading and other assets) 
  - 
 17 
 44 
  -  
 834  
 - 
Loans held for sale 
  - 
 - 
 - 
  -  
 1  
 - 
Derivatives (liabilities) 
  - 
 11 
 43 
  -  
 850  
 - 
Other liabilities  
  - 
 22 
 - 
  6  
 249  
 - 
 203Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
  Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a 
Recurring Basis 
The following two tables present the balances of assets and 
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
                               (in millions)
  Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3
 Netting 
Total 
December 31, 2012 
        Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  5,104  
 3,774  
 -   -    8,878  
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -   1,587  
 46 
  -    1,633  
 Collateralized debt obligations 
(1)   -   -   742 
  -    742  
 Corporate debt securities 
  -   6,664  
 52 
  -    6,716  
 Mortgage-backed securities 
  -   13,380  
 6 
  -    13,386  
 Asset-backed securities 
  -   722  
 138 
  -    860  
 Equity securities 
  3,481  
 356  
 3 
  -    3,840  
  Total trading securities
(2)   8,585  
 26,483  
 987 
  -    36,055  
 Other trading assets 
  2,150  
 887  
 76 
  -    3,113  
   Total trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
  10,735  
 27,370  
 1,063 
  -    39,168  
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  915  
 6,231  
 -   -    7,146  
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -   35,045  
 3,631 
(3)  -    38,676  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
         Federal agencies 
  -   97,285  
 -   -    97,285  
 Residential 
  -   15,837  
 94 
  -    15,931  
 Commercial 
  -   19,765  
 203 
  -    19,968  
  Total mortgage-backed securities 
  -   132,887  
 297 
  -    133,184  
Corporate debt securities 
  125  
 20,934  
 274 
  -    21,333  
Collateralized debt obligations 
(4)   -   -   13,188 
(3)  -    13,188  
Asset-backed securities: 
         Auto loans and leases 
  -   7  
 5,921 
(3)  -    5,928  
 Home equity loans 
  -   867  
 51 
  -    918  
 Other asset-backed securities 
  -   7,828  
 3,283 
(3)  -    11,111  
  Total asset-backed securities 
  -   8,702  
 9,255 
  -    17,957  
Other debt securities 
  -   930  
 -   -    930  
   Total debt securities 
  1,040  
 204,729  
 26,645 
  -    232,414  
Marketable equity securities: 
         Perpetual preferred securities
 (5)   629  
 753  
 794 
(3)  -    2,176  
 Other marketable equity securities 
  554  
 55  
 -   -    609  
   Total marketable equity securities 
  1,183  
 808  
 794 
  -    2,785  
    Total securities available for sale 
  2,223  
 205,537  
 27,439 
  -    235,199  
Mortgages held for sale  
  -   39,055  
 3,250 
  -    42,305  
Loans held for sale 
  -   6  
 -   -    6  
Loans 
  -   185  
 6,021 
  -    6,206  
Mortgage servicing rights (residential) 
  -   -   11,538 
  -    11,538  
Derivative assets: 
         Interest rate contracts 
  16  
 70,277  
 1,058 
  -    71,351  
 Commodity contracts 
  -   3,386  
 70 
  -    3,456  
 Equity contracts 
  432  
 2,747  
 604 
  -    3,783  
 Foreign exchange contracts 
  19  
 5,481  
 24 
  -    5,524  
 Credit contracts 
  -   1,160  
 650 
  -    1,810  
 Other derivative contracts 
  -   -   -   -    -    Netting 
  -   -   -   (62,108) 
(6)  (62,108)
    Total derivative assets
 (7)   467  
 83,051  
 2,406 
  (62,108) 
  23,816  
Other assets 
  136  
 123  
 162 
  -    421  
     Total assets recorded at fair value 
$  13,561  
 355,327  
 51,879 
  (62,108) 
  358,659  
Derivative liabilities: 
         Interest rate contracts 
$  (52) 
 (68,244) 
 (399)
  -    (68,695) 
 Commodity contracts 
  -   (3,541) 
 (49)
  -    (3,590) 
 Equity contracts 
  (199) 
 (3,239) 
 (726)
  -    (4,164
)  Foreign exchange contracts 
  (23) 
 (3,553) 
 (3)
  -    (3,579) 
 Credit contracts 
  -   (1,152) 
 (1,800)
  -    (2,952) 
 Other derivative contracts 
  -   -   (78)
  -    (78) 
  Netting 
  -   -   -   71,116  
(6)  71,116 
    Total derivative liabilities
 (7)   (274) 
 (79,729) 
 (3,055)
  71,116  
  (11,942) 
Short sale liabilities: 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  (4,225) 
 (875) 
 -   -    (5,100) 
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -   (9) 
 -   -    (9) 
 Corporate debt securities 
  -   (3,941) 
 -   -    (3,941) 
 Equity securities 
  (1,233) 
 (35) 
 -   -    (1,268) 
 Other securities 
  -   (47) 
 -   -    (47) 
  Total short sale liabilities 
  (5,458) 
 (4,907) 
 -   -    (10,365) 
Other liabilities 
  -   (34) 
 (49)
  -    (83) 
     Total liabilities recorded at fair value 
$  (5,732) 
 (84,670) 
 (3,104)
  71,116  
  (22,390) 
               (1) Includes collateralized loan obligations of $721 million that are classified as trading assets. 
(2) Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement include $305 million in net unrealized gains on trading se
curities held at December 31, 2012. 
(3) Balances consist of securities that are predominantly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or i
nternal credit grades categorized as 
investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity
. (4) Includes collateralized loan obligations of $12.5 billion that are classified as securities available for sale. 
(5) Perpetual preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information. 
(6) Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the criteria of the accounting guidan
ce covering the offsetting of amounts related to 
certain contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master netting agre
ement. 
(7) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivative
s included in trading assets and trading 
liabilities, respectively. 
 (continued on following page) 
204     (continued from previous page) 
                                    (in millions)
  Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Netting 
Total 
December 31, 2011 
        Trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
$  3,342  
 3,638  
 -  
  -  
  6,980  
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -  
 2,438  
 53  
  -  
  2,491  
 Collateralized debt obligations (1) 
  -  
 -  
 1,582  
  -  
  1,582  
 Corporate debt securities 
  -  
 6,479  
 97  
  -  
  6,576  
 Mortgage-backed securities 
  -  
 34,959  
 108  
  -  
  35,067  
 Asset-backed securities 
  -  
 1,093  
 190  
  -  
  1,283  
 Equity securities 
  1,682  
 172  
 4  
  -  
  1,858  
  Total trading securities(2) 
  5,024  
 48,779  
 2,034  
  -  
  55,837  
 Other trading assets 
  1,847  
 68  
 115  
  -  
  2,030  
   Total trading assets (excluding derivatives) 
  6,871  
 48,847  
 2,149  
  -  
  57,867  
Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  869  
 6,099  
 -  
  -  
  6,968  
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -  
 21,077  
 11,516  
(3) 
 -  
  32,593  
Mortgage-backed securities: 
         Federal agencies 
  -  
 96,754  
 -  
  -  
  96,754  
 Residential 
  -  
 17,775  
 61  
  -  
  17,836  
 Commercial 
  -  
 17,918  
 232  
  -  
  18,150  
  Total mort
gage-backed securities 
  -  
 132,447  
 293  
  -  
  132,740  
Corporate debt securities 
  317  
 17,792  
 295  
  -  
  18,404  
Collateralized debt obligations (4) 
  -  
 -  
 8,599  
(3) 
 -  
  8,599  
Asset-backed securities: 
         Auto loans and leases 
  -  
 86  
 6,641  
(3) 
 -  
  6,727  
 Home equity loans 
  -  
 650  
 282  
  -  
  932  
 Other asset-backed securities 
  -  
 8,326  
 2,863  
(3) 
 -  
  11,189  
  Total asset-backed securities 
  -  
 9,062  
 9,786  
  -  
  18,848  
Other debt securities 
  -  
 1,044  
 -  
  -  
  1,044  
   Total debt securities 
  1,186  
 187,521  
 30,489  
  -  
  219,196  
Marketable equity securities: 
         Perpetual preferred securities (5) 
  552  
 631  
 1,344  
(3) 
 -  
  2,527  
 Other marketable equity securities 
  814  
 53  
 23  
  -  
  890  
   Total marketable equity securities 
  1,366  
 684  
 1,367  
  -  
  3,417  
    Total securities available for sale 
  2,552  
 188,205  
 31,856  
  -  
  222,613  
Mortgages held for sale  
  -  
 41,381  
 3,410  
  -  
  44,791  
Loans held for sale 
  -  
 1,176  
 -  
  -  
  1,176  
Loans 
  -  
 5,893  
 23  
  -  
  5,916  
Mortgage servicing rights (residential) 
  -  
 -  
 12,603  
  -  
  12,603  
Derivative assets: 
         Interest rate contracts 
  -  
 91,022  
 1,055  
  -  
  92,077  
 Commodity contracts 
  -  
 4,351  
 -  
  -  
  4,351  
 Equity contracts 
  471  
 2,737  
 560  
  -  
  3,768  
 Foreign exchange contracts 
  35  
 4,873  
 16  
  -  
  4,924  
 Credit contracts 
  -  
 2,219  
 1,357  
  -  
  3,576  
 Other derivative contracts 
  -  
 -  
 -  
  -  
  -  
  Netting 
  -  
 -  
 -  
  (81,143) 
(6) 
 (81,143) 
   Total derivative assets (7) 
  506  
 105,202  
 2,988  
  (81,143
)   27,553  
Other assets 
  88  
 135  
 244  
  -  
  467  
     Total assets recorded at fair value 
$  10,017  
 390,839  
 53,273  
  (81,143
)   372,986  
Derivative liabilities: 
         Interest rate contracts 
$  (4) 
 (88,164) 
 (446) 
  -  
  (88,614) 
 Commodity contracts 
  -  
 (4,234) 
 -  
  -  
  (4,234) 
 Equity contracts 
  (229) 
 (2,797) 
 (635) 
  -  
  (3,661) 
 Foreign exchange contracts 
  (31) 
 (3,324
)  (23) 
  -  
  (3,378) 
 Credit contracts 
  -  
 (2,099) 
 (3,355) 
  -  
  (5,454) 
 Other derivative contracts 
  -  
 -  
 (117) 
  -  
  (117) 
  Netting 
  -  
 -  
 -  
  89,990  
(6) 
 89,990  
   Total derivative liabilities (7) 
  (264) 
 (100,618) 
 (4,576) 
  89,990  
  (15,468) 
Short sale liabilities: 
         Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  (3,820) 
 (919) 
 -  
  -  
  (4,739) 
 Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  -  
 (2) 
 -  
  -  
  (2) 
 Corporate debt securities 
  -  
 (4,112) 
 -  
  -  
  (4,112) 
 Equity securities 
  (944) 
 (298)  -  
  -  
  (1,242) 
 Other securities 
  -  
 (737) 
 -  
  -  
  (737) 
  Total short sale liabilities 
  (4,764) 
 (6,068) 
 -  
  -  
  (10,832) 
Other liabilities 
  -  
 (98) 
 (44) 
  -  
  (142) 
     Total liabilities recorded at fair value 
$  (5,028) 
 (106,784) 
 (4,620) 
  89,990  
  (26,442) 
               (1) Includes collateralized loan obligations of $583 million that are classified as trading assets. 
(2) Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement include $133 million in net unrealized gains on trading se
curities we held at December 31, 2011. 
(3) Balances consist of securities that are predominantly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or i
nternal credit grades categorized as 
investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity
. (4) Includes collateralized loan obligations of $8.1 billion that are classified as securities available for sale. 
(5) Perpetual preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8 for additional information. 
(6) Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the criteria of the accounting guidan
ce covering the offsetting of amounts related to 
certain contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable master netting agre
ement. 
(7) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivative
s included in trading assets and trading 
liabilities, respectively. 
205Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
  Changes in Fair Value Levels 
We monitor the availability of observable market data to assess 
the appropriate classification of financial instruments within the 

fair value hierarchy and transfer between Level 1, Level 2, and 

Level 3 accordingly. Observable market data includes but is not 

limited to quoted prices and m
arket transactions. Changes in 
economic conditions or market liquidity generally will drive 

changes in availability of observable market data. Changes in 
availability of observable market data, which also may result in 
changing the valuation technique used, are generally the cause of 

transfers between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3.   

 All current period transfers into and out of Level 1, Level 2, 

and Level 3 are provided within the below table. The amounts 
reported as transfers represent the fair value as of the beginning 

of the quarter in which the transfer occurred. 
    Transfers Between Fair Value Levels 
    Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 (1) 
 (in millions) 
 In 
Out  In 
Out  In 
Out  Total  
Year ended December 31, 2012 
          Trading securities 
 $ 
 23  
 -  
  16  
 (37) 
  14  
 (16) 
 -  
Securities available for sale (2) 
  8  
 -  
  9,832  
 (68) 
  60  
 (9,832) 
 -  
Mortgages held for sale 
  -  
 -  
  298  
 (488) 
  488  
 (298) 
 -  
Loans (3) 
  -  
 -  
  41  
 (5,851) 
  5,851  
 (41) 
 -  
Net derivative assets and liabilities 
  -  
 -  
  51  
 8  
  (8) 
 (51) 
 -  
Short sale liabilities 
  -  
 -  
  -  
 -  
  -  
 -  
 -  
 Total transfers 
 $ 
 31  
 -  
  10,238  
 (6,436) 
  6,405  
 (10,238) 
 -  
(1) All transfers in and out of Level 3 are disclosed within the recurring level 3 rollforward table in this Note. 
(2) Includes $9.4 billion of securities
 of U.S. states and political subdivisions that
 we transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 as a 
result of increased observable market data in the 
valuation of such instruments. This transfer was done in conjunction with a change in our valuation technique from an internal 
model based upon unobservable inputs to 
third party vendor pricing based upon market observable data. 
(3) Consists of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactions. We transfe
rred the loans from Level 2 to Level 3 in 
third quarter 2012 due to decreased market activity and visibility to significant trades of the same or similar products. As a 
result, we changed our valuation technique from 
an internal model based on market observable data to an internal discounted cash flow model based on unobservable inputs. 
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we transferred 
$709 million of other trading assets from Level 2 to Level 1 due 

to use of more observable market data. We transferred 

$801 million of debt securities av
ailable for sale from Level 3 to 
Level 2 due to an increase in th
e volume of trading activity for 
certain securities, which resulted
 in increased occurrences of 
observable market prices. We also transferred $502 million of 

securities available for sale from
 Level 2 to Level 3 primarily due 
to a decrease in liquidity for 
certain asset-backed securities. 
 Significant changes to Level 3 assets for the year ended 

December 31, 2010 are described as follows:  

 We adopted new consolidation 
accounting guidance which 
impacted Level 3 balances for certain financial instruments. 

Reductions in Level 3 balances, which represent 

derecognition of existing investments in newly consolidated 

VIEs, are reflected as transfers out for the following 

categories: trading assets, $276 million; securities available 

for sale, $1.9 billion; and mortgage servicing rights, 

$118 million. Increases in Level 3 balances, which represent 

newly consolidated VIE assets, are reflected as transfers in 

for the following categories: securities available for sale, 

$829 million; loans, $366 million; and long-term debt, 
$359 million.  
 We transferred $4.9 billion of securities available for sale 
from Level 3 to Level 2 due to an increase in the volume of 

trading activity for certain mortgage-backed and other 

asset-backed securities, which resulted in increased 

occurrences of observable market prices. We also 

transferred $1.7 billion of debt securities available for sale 

from Level 2 to Level 3, prim
arily due to a decrease in 
liquidity for certain asset-backed securities.  
206     The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilit
ies measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2012
, are 
summarized as follows: 
                                             Net unrealized
         Total net gains 
Purchases, 
gains (losses)
         (losses) included in 
sales, 
included in
          Other 
issuances 
income related
         Balance,
 compre- 
and 
Transfers
Transfers
Balance,
to assets and
        beginning
Net 
hensive 
settlements, 
into
out of
end of
liabilities held
 (in millions)
   of period
income 
income 
net (1) 
Level 3
Level 3
period
at period end (2)
 Year ended December 31, 2012
           Trading assets
            (excluding derivatives): 
           Securities of U.S. states and 
            political subdivisions 
$  53 
 3  
 -   (10)  -  -  46 
 -   Collateralized debt obligations 
  1,582 
 (191) 
 -   (649) 
 -  -  742 
 (47)
  Corporate debt securities  
  97 
 -   -   (45) 
 -  -  52 
 (3)
  Mortgage-backed securities 
  108 
 8  
 -   (110) 
 -  -  6 
 2 
  Asset-backed securities 
  190 
 48  
 -   (98) 
 14 
 (16)
 138 
 23 
  Equity securities 
  4 
 -   -   (1) 
 -  -  3 
 -    Total trading securities 
  2,034 
 (132) 
 -   (913) 
 14 
 (16)
 987 
 (25)
  Other trading assets 
  115 
 (39) 
 -   -   -  -  76 
 (19)
    Total trading assets 
              (excluding derivatives) 
  2,149 
 (171) 
 -   (913) 
 14 
 (16)
 1,063 
 (44)
(3) Securities available for sale:
            Securities of U.S. states and 
            political subdivisions 
  11,516 
 10  
 160  
 1,347  
 -  (9,402)
 3,631 
 -   Mortgage-backed securities: 
            Residential 
  61 
 12  
 16  
 50  
 29 
 (74)
 94 
 (1)
   Commercial 
  232 
 (56) 
 57  
 (30) 
 -  -  203 
 (56)
    Total mortgage-backed 
              securities 
  293 
 (44) 
 73  
 20  
 29 
 (74)
 297 
 (57)
  Corporate debt securities  
  295 
 20  
 19  
 (20) 
 1 
 (41)
 274 
 -   Collateralized debt obligations 
  8,599 
 135  
 514  
 3,940  
 -  -  13,188 
 -   Asset-backed securities: 
            Auto loans and leases 
  6,641 
 3  
 3  
 (726) 
 -  -  5,921 
 -    Home equity loans 
  282 
 15  
 14  
 (3) 
 29 
 (286)
 51 
 (1)
   Other asset-backed securities 
  2,863 
 (29)  148  
 329  
 1 
 (29) 3,283 
 (6)    Total asset-backed securities 
  9,786 
 (11) 
 165  
 (400) 
 30 
 (315)
 9,255 
 (7)
     Total debt securities 
  30,489 
 110  
 931  
 4,887  
 60 
 (9,832
) 26,645 
 (64)(4)  Marketable equity securities: 
            Perpetual preferred securities 
  1,344 
 91  
 (30) 
 (611) 
 -  -  794 
 -    Other marketable equity securities 
  23 
 2  
 (16) 
 (9) 
 -  -  -  -      Total marketable 
               equity securities 
  1,367 
 93  
 (46) 
 (620) 
 -  -  794 
 - (5)      Total securities 
                available for sale 
  31,856 
 203  
 885  
 4,267  
 60 
 (9,832)
 27,439 
 (64)
 Mortgages held for sale
   3,410 
 (42) 
 -   (308) 
 488 
 (298)
 3,250 
 (30)
(6) Loans
   23 
 43  
 -   145  
 5,851 
 (41)
 6,021 
 43 
(6) Mortgage servicing rights
   12,603 
 (5,954) 
 -   4,889  
 -  -  11,538 
 (2,893)
(6) Net derivative assets and liabilities:
            Interest rate contracts 
  609 
 7,397  
 -   (7,349) 
 -  2 
 659 
 562 
  Commodity contracts 
  -  78  
 -   (50) 
 (8)
 1 
 21 
 40 
  Equity contracts 
  (75)
 (11) 
 -   18  
 -  (54)
 (122)
 (16)
  Foreign exchange contracts 
  (7)
 23  
 -   5  
 -  -  21 
 30 
  Credit contracts 
  (1,998)
 38  
 -   810  
 -  -  (1,150)
 41 
  Other derivative contracts 
  (117) 40  
 (1) 
 -   -  -  (78)
 -    Total derivative contracts 
  (1,588)
 7,565  
 (1) 
 (6,566) 
 (8)
 (51)
 (649)
 657 
(7) Other assets
   244 
 (21) 
 -   (61) 
 -  -  162 
 (8)
(3) Short sale liabilities
   -  -   -   -   -  -  -  - (3) Other liabilities (excluding derivatives)
   (44)
 (43) 
 -   38  
 -  -  (49)
 - (6)                             (1) See next page for detail. 
(2) Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management’s estimates of fair value and 
excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
(3) Included in trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(4) Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement. 
(5) Included in equity investments in the income statement. 
(6) Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(7) Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
 (continued on following page) 
207Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
   (continued from previous page) 
  The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances 
and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and li
abilities 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2012. 
           (in millions)
   Purchases 
Sales 
Issuances
Settlements 
Net 
Year ended December 31, 2012 
      Trading assets 
       (excluding derivatives): 
       Securities of U.S. states and 
        political subdivisions 
$  85  
 (95) 
 -  -   (10) 
 Collateralized debt obligations 
  829  
 (1,478) 
 -  -   (649) 
 Corporate debt securities  
  192  
 (237) 
 -  -   (45) 
 Mortgage-backed securities 
  49  
 (159) 
 -  -   (110) 
 Asset-backed securities 
  116  
 (169) 
 -  (45) 
 (98) 
 Equity securities 
  1  
 (2) 
 -  -   (1) 
  Total trading securities 
  1,272  
 (2,140) 
 -  (45) 
 (913) 
 Other trading assets 
  -   -   -  -   -     Total trading assets 
          (excluding derivatives) 
  1,272  
 (2,140) 
 -  (45) 
 (913) Securities available for sale: 
       Securities of U.S. states and 
        political subdivisions 
  1,847  
 (37) 
 1,011 
 (1,474) 
 1,347  
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
        Residential 
  86  
 (34) 
 -  (2) 
 50  
  Commercial 
  39  
 -   -  (69) 
 (30) 
   Total mortgage-backed 
          securities 
  125  
 (34) 
 -  (71) 
 20  
 Corporate debt securities  
  26  
 (37) 
 -  (9) 
 (20) 
 Collateralized debt obligations 
  5,608  
 (185) 
 -  (1,483) 
 3,940  
 Asset-backed securities: 
        Auto loans and leases 
  3,004  
 -   666 
 (4,396) 
 (726) 
  Home equity loans 
  -   (2) 
 -  (1) 
 (3) 
  Other asset-backed securities 
  2,074  
 (159) 
 1,401 
 (2,987) 
 329  
   Total asset-backed securities 
  5,078  
 (161) 
 2,067 
 (7,384) 
 (400) 
    Total debt securities 
  12,684  
 (454) 
 3,078 
 (10,421) 
 4,887  
 Marketable equity securities: 
        Perpetual preferred securities 
  -   -   -  (611) 
 (611) 
  Other marketable equity securities 
  -   (8) 
 -  (1) 
 (9) 
    Total marketable 
           equity securities 
  -   (8) 
 -  (612) 
 (620) 
     Total securities 
            available for sale 
  12,684  
 (462) 
 3,078 
 (11,033) 
 4,267  
Mortgages held for sale 
  441  
 -   -  (749) 
 (308) Loans 
  2  
 -   257 
 (114) 
 145  
Mortgage servicing rights 
  -   (293) 
 5,182 
 -   4,889  
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
       Interest rate contracts 
  11  
 -   -  (7,360) 
 (7,349
)  Commodity contracts 
  -   (2) 
 -  (48) 
 (50) 
 Equity contracts 
  386  
 (375) 
 1 
 6  
 18  
 Foreign exchange contracts 
  2  
 (3) 
 -  6  
 5  
 Credit contracts 
  (6) 
 3  
 -  813  
 810  
 Other derivative contracts 
  -   -   -  -   -    Total derivative contracts 
  393  
 (377) 
 1 
 (6,583) 
 (6,566) 
Other assets 
  19  
 (8) 
 -  (72) 
 (61) 
Short sale liabilities 
  9  
 (9) 
 -  -   -  Other liabilities (excluding derivatives) 
  (3) 
 11  
 (216)
 246  
 38  
208      The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilit
ies measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2011
, are 
summarized as follows: 
                                             Net unrealized
         Total net gains 
Purchases, 
gains (losses)
         (losses) included in 
sales, 
included in
          Other 
issuances 
income related
         Balance,
 compre- 
and 
Transfers
Transfers
Balance,
to assets and
        beginning
Net 
hensive 
settlements, 
intoout of
end of
liabilities held
 (in millions) 
  of period
income 
income 
net (1) 
Level 3
Level 3
period
at period end (2)
 Year ended December 31, 2011 
          Trading assets 
           (excluding derivatives): 
           Securities of U.S. states and 
            political subdivisions 
$  5  3  
 -  
 12  
 51  (18) 53  -   Collateralized debt obligations 
  1,915 
 (24) 
 -  
 (297) 
 -  (12) 1,582 
 1   Corporate debt securities  
  166  1  
 -  
 (70) 
 -  -  97  (80)  Mortgage-backed securities 
  117  6  
 -  
 (36) 
 31  (10) 108  (4)  Asset-backed securities 
  366  75  
 -  
 (122) 
 -  (129)
 190  (2)  Equity securities 
  34  (3) 
 -  
 (28) 
 1  -  4  72    Total trading securities 
  2,603 
 58  
 -  
 (541) 
 83  (169)
 2,034 
 (13)  Other trading assets 
  136  (21) 
 -  
 2  
 -  (2) 115  14     Total trading assets 
              (excludin
g derivatives
)   2,739 
 37  
 -  
 (539)  83  (171) 2,149 
 1 (3) Securities available for sale: 
           Securities of U.S. states and 
            political subdivisions 
  4,564 
 10  
 52  
 6,923  
 -  (33) 11,516 
 9   Mortgage-backed securities: 
            Residential 
  20  (9) 
 (1) 
 (6) 
 121  (64) 61  (8)   Commercial 
  217  (44) 
 59  
 2  
 2  (4) 232  (56)    Total mortgage-backed 
              securities 
  237  (53) 
 58  
 (4) 
 123  (68) 293  (64)  Corporate debt securities  
  433  150  
 (112) 
 (185) 
 41  (32) 295  (3)  Collateralized debt obligations 
  4,778 
 290  
 (202) 
 3,725  
 8  -  8,599 
 -   Asset-backed securities: 
            Auto loans and leases 
  6,133 
 4  
 (27) 
 531  
 -  -  6,641 
 -    Home equity loans 
  112  (3) 
 (18) 
 40  
 221  (70) 282  (25)   Other asset-backed securities 
  3,150 
 10  
 13  
 181  
 107  (598)
 2,863 
 (7)    Total asset-backed securities 
  9,395 
 11  
 (32) 
 752  
 328  (668)
 9,786 
 (32)  Other debt securities 
  85  -  
 -  
 (85) 
 -  -  -  -      Total debt securities 
  19,492 
 408  
 (236) 
 11,126  
 500  (801)
 30,489 
 (90)(4)  Marketable equity securities: 
            Perpetual preferred securities 
  2,434 
 160  
 (7) 
 (1,243) 
 2  (2) 1,344 
 (53)   Other marketable equity securities 
  32  -  
 1  
 (10) 
 -  -  23  -      Total marketable 
               equity securities 
  2,466 
 160  
 (6) 
 (1,253) 
 2  (2) 1,367 
 (53)(5)      Total securities 
                available for sale 
  21,958 
 568  
 (242) 
 9,873  
 502  (803)
 31,856 
 (143)
 Mortgages held for sale 
  3,305 
 44  
 -  
 (104) 
 492  (327)
 3,410 
 43 (6) Loans 
  309  13  
 -  
 (299) 
 -  -  23  - (6) Mortgage servicing rights 
  14,467 
 (5,821) 
 -  
 3,957  
 -  -  12,603 
 (3,680)
(6) Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
           Interest rate contracts 
  77  4,051  
 -  
 (3,414) 
 (1) (104)
 609  309   Commodity contracts 
  (1) 2  
 -  
 (9) 
 (3) 11  -  1   Equity contracts 
  (225) 126  
 -  
 28  
 (6) 2  (75) 55   Foreign exchange contracts 
  9  (8) 
 -  
 (6) 
 1  (3) (7) (19)  Credit contracts 
  (1,017)
 (856) 
 -  
 (123) 
 -  (2) (1,998)
 50   Other derivative contracts 
  (35) (82) 
 -  
 -  
 -  -  (117)
 -    Total derivative contracts 
  (1,192
) 3,233  
 -  
 (3,524) 
 (9) (96) (1,588
) 396 (7) Other assets 
  314  12  
 -  
 (82) 
 -  -  244  3 (3) Short sale liabilities 
  -  -  
 -  
 -  
 -  -  -  - (3) Other liabilities (excluding derivatives) 
  (344) (8) 
 -  
 308  
 -  -  (44) - (6)                (1) See next page for detail. 
(2) Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management’s estimates of fair value and 
excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
(3) Included in trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(4) Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement. 
(5) Included in equity investments in the income statement. 
(6) Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(7) Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
 (continued on following page) 
209Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
   (continued from previous page) 
  The following table presents gross purchases, sales, issuances 
and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and li
abilities 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
            (in millions) 
  Purchases 
Sales 
Issuances 
Settlements 
Net 
Year ended December 31, 2011 
      Trading assets 
       (excludin
g derivatives
):        Securities of U.S. states and 
        political subdivisions 
$  313  
 (199) 
 -  
 (102) 
 12  
 Collateralized debt obligations 
  1,054  
 (1,310) 
 -  
 (41) 
 (297) 
 Corporate debt securities  
  80  
 (150) 
 -  
 -  
 (70) 
 Mortgage-backed securities 
  759  
 (790) 
 -  
 (5) 
 (36) 
 Asset-backed securities 
  516  
 (585) 
 -  
 (53) 
 (122) 
 Equity securities 
  6  
 (22) 
 -  
 (12) 
 (28) 
  Total trading securities 
  2,728  
 (3,056) 
 -  
 (213) 
 (541) 
 Other trading assets 
  -  
 -  
 2  
 -  
 2  
   Total trading assets 
          (excluding derivatives) 
  2,728  
 (3,056) 
 2  
 (213) 
 (539) 
Securities available for sale: 
       Securities of U.S. states and 
        political subdivisions 
  4,280  
 (4) 
 4,723  
 (2,076) 
 6,923  
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
        Residential 
  3  
 -  
 -  
 (9) 
 (6) 
  Commercial 
  21  
 -  
 -  
 (19) 
 2  
   Total mortgage-backed 
          securities 
  24  
 -  
 -  
 (28) 
 (4) 
 Corporate debt securities  
  94  
 (208) 
 1  
 (72) 
 (185) 
 Collateralized debt obligations 
  4,805  
 (36) 
 -  
 (1,044) 
 3,725  
 Asset-backed securities: 
        Auto loans and leases 
  5,918  
 -  
 333  
 (5,720
)  531  
  Home equity loans 
  44  
 -  
 -  
 (4) 
 40  
  Other asset-backed securities 
  1,428  
 (456) 
 1,395  
 (2,186) 
 181  
   Total asset-backed securities 
  7,390  
 (456) 
 1,728  
 (7,910) 
 752  
 Other debt securities 
  -  
 (85) 
 -  
 -  
 (85) 
    Total debt securities 
  16,593  
 (789) 
 6,452  
 (11,130) 
 11,126  
 Marketable equity securities: 
        Perpetual preferred securities 
  1  
 (13) 
 -  
 (1,231) 
 (1,243) 
  Other marketable equity securities 
  3  
 (12) 
 -  
 (1) 
 (10) 
    Total marketable 
           equity securities 
  4  
 (25) 
 -  
 (1,232) 
 (1,253) 
     Total securities 
            available for sale 
  16,597  
 (814) 
 6,452  
 (12,362) 
 9,873  
Mortgages held for sale 
  576  
 (21) 
 -  
 (659) 
 (104) 
Loans 
  23  
 (309) 
 -  
 (13) 
 (299) 
Mortgage servicing rights 
  -  
 -  
 4,011  
 (54) 
 3,957  
Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
       Interest rate contracts 
  6  
 (1) 
 -  
 (3,419) 
 (3,414) 
 Commodity contracts 
  7  
 (17) 
 -  
 1  
 (9) 
 Equity contracts 
  123  
 (255) 
 -  
 160  
 28  
 Foreign exchange contracts 
  4  
 (4) 
 -  
 (6) 
 (6) 
 Credit contracts 
  6  
 (3) 
 -  
 (126) 
 (123) 
 Other derivative contracts 
  -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
  Total derivative contracts 
  146  
 (280) 
 -  
 (3,390) 
 (3,524) 
Other assets 
  10  
 (1) 
 -  
 (91) 
 (82) 
Short sale liabilities 
  (125) 
 124  
 -  
 1  
 -  
Other liabilities (excluding derivatives) 
  (10) 
 1  
 -  
 317  
 308  
             210      The following table presents changes in Level 3 assets and lia
bilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the yea
r ended December 31, 2010. 
                                             Net unrealized
         Total net gains 
Purchases, 
gains (losses)
         (losses) included in 
sales, 
included in net
          Other 
issuances 
income related
         Balance,
 compre- 
and 
Transfers
Transfers
Balance,
to assets and
        beginning
Net 
hensive 
settlements, 
intoout of
end of
liabilities held
 (in millions) 
  of yea
rincome 
income 
net 
Level 3
Level 3
year
at period end (1)
 Year ended December 31, 2010 
          Trading assets 
           (excluding derivatives): 
           Securities of U.S. states and 
            political subdivisions 
$  5  2  
 -  
 (11) 
 9  -  5  1   Collateralized debt obligations 
  1,133 
 418  
 -  
 364  
 -  -  1,915 
 11   Corporate debt securities  
  223  9  
 -  
 67  
 9  (142)
 166  16   Mortgage-backed securities 
  146  (7) 
 -  
 101  
 -  (123)
 117  (17)  Asset-backed securities 
  497  80  
 -  
 (141) 
 1  (71) 366  67   Equity securities 
  36  1  
 -  
 (5) 
 2  -  34  (2)   Total trading securities 
  2,040 
 503  
 -  
 375  
 21  (336)
 2,603 
 76  Other trading assets
   271  (35) 
 -  
 (19) 
 -  (81) 136  10     Total trading assets 
              (excluding derivatives) 
  2,311 
 468  
 -  
 356  
 21  (417)
 2,739 
 86 (2) Securities available for sale: 
           Securities of U.S. states and 
            political subdivisions 
  818  12  
 63  
 3,485  
 192  (6) 4,564 
 4   Mortgage-backed securities: 
            Residential 
  1,084 
 7  
 (21) 
 (48) 
 274  (1,276)
 20  (8)   Commercial 
  1,799 
 (28) 
 404  
 (10) 
 227  (2,175)
 217  (5)    Total mortgage-backed 
              securities 
  2,883 
 (21) 
 383  
 (58) 
 501  (3,451)
 237  (13)  Corporate debt securities  
  367  7  
 68  
 (113) 
 259  (155)
 433  -   Collateralized debt obligations 
  3,725 
 210  
 96  
 959  
 -  (212)
 4,778 
 (14)  Asset-backed securities: 
            Auto loans and leases 
  8,525 
 1  
 (246) 
 (2,403) 
 256  -  6,133 
 -    Home equity loans 
  1,677 
 1  
 40  
 48  
 113  (1,767)
 112  (5)   Other asset-backed securities 
  2,308 
 51  
 (19) 
 903  
 1,057 
 (1,150)
 3,150 
 (12)    Total asset-backed securities 
  12,510 
 53  
 (225) 
 (1,452) 
 1,426 
 (2,917)
 9,395 
 (17)  Other debt securities 
  77  (15) 
 11  
 12  
 -  -  85  -      Total debt securities 
  20,380 
 246  
 396  
 2,833  
 2,378 
 (6,741)
 19,492 
 (40)(3)  Marketable equity securities: 
            Perpetual preferred securities 
  2,305 
 100  
 (31) 
 6  
 80  (26) 2,434 
 -    Other marketable equity securities 
  88  -  
 5  
 (21) 
 14  (54) 32  -      Total marketable 
               equity securities 
  2,393 
 100  
 (26) 
 (15) 
 94  (80) 2,466 
 - (4)      Total securities 
                available for sale 
  22,773 
 346  
 370  
 2,818  
 2,472 
 (6,821)
 21,958 
 (40) Mortgages held for sale 
  3,523 
 43  
 -  
 (253) 
 380  (388)
 3,305 
 39 (5) Loans 
  -  55  
 -  
 (112) 
 1,035 
 (669)
 309  55 (5) Mortgage servicing rights 
  16,004 
 (5,511) 
 -  
 4,092  
 -  (118)
 14,467 
 (2,957)
(5) Net derivative assets and liabilities: 
           Interest rate contracts 
  (114) 3,514  
 -  
 (3,482) 
 159  -  77  (266)
  Commodity contracts 
  -  (1) 
 -  
 -  
 -  -  (1) (1)  Equity contracts 
  (344)
 (104) 
 -  
 169  
 -  54  (225)
 (19)  Foreign exchange contracts 
  (1) 21  
 -  
 (11) 
 -  -  9  -   Credit contracts 
  (330)
 (675) 
 -  
 (18) 
 6  -  (1,017)
 (644)
  Other derivative contracts 
  (43) 4  
 -  
 4  
 -  -  (35) -    Total derivative contracts 
  (832)
 2,759  
 -  
 (3,338) 
 165  54  (1,192)
 (930)
(6) Other assets 
  1,373 
 29  
 -  
 (103) 
 4  (989)
 314  (38)(2) Short sale liabilities 
           (corporate debt securities) 
  (26) (2) 
 -  
 (37) 
 -  65  -  - (2) Other liabilities (excluding derivatives) 
  (10) (55) 
 -  
 94  
 (1,038)
 665  (344)
 (58)(5)                             (1) Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management’s estimates of fair value and 
excludes changes due to the 
collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
(2) Included in trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(3) Included in debt securities available for sale in the income statement. 
(4) Included in equity investments in the income statement. 
(5) Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
(6) Included in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
  The following table provides quantitative information about 
the valuation techniques and si
gnificant unobservable inputs 
used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and 

liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for which 

we use an internal model. 
 The significant unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and 
liabilities that are valued using 
fair values obtained from third 
party vendors are not included in the table as the specific inputs 

applied are not provided by the vendor (see discussion regarding 

vendor-developed valuations within the “Level 3 Asset and 
211Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
  Liabilities Valuation Processes” se
ction previously within this 
Note). In addition, the table ex
cludes the valuation techniques 
and significant unobservable inputs for certain classes of Level 3 

assets and liabilities measured using an internal model that we 

consider, both individually and 
in the aggregate, insignificant 
relative to our overall Level 3 assets and liabilities. We made this 
determination based upon an ev
aluation of each class which 
considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the 

unobservable inputs and potential 
for significant changes in fair 
value due to changes in those inputs
.                      Fair Value 
 Significant 
Range of
Weighted 
($ in millions, except cost to service amounts) 
Level 3 
Valuation Techni
que(s) Unobservable Input 
 Inputs
Avera
ge (1) December 31, 2012 
          Trading and available for sale securities: 
           Securities of U.S. states and 
           political subdivisions: 
            Government, healthcare and 
             other revenue bonds 
$  3,081  
 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.5 
- 4.8  
%1.8  
               Auction rate securities 
  596  
 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
2.0 
- 12.9  
4.4  
         Weighted average life 
3.0 
- 7.5  
yrs
3.4  
 Collateralized debt obligations (2) 
  1,423  
 Market comparable pricing 
Comparability adjustment 
(22.5)
- 24.7  
%3.5  
       12,507  
 Vendor priced 
     Asset-backed securities: 
          Auto loans and leases 
  5,921  
 Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
 2.1 
-  9.7  
3.2  
         Discount rate 
 0.6 
-  1.6  
1.0  
         Loss severity 
 50.0 
-  66.6  
51.8  
         Prepayment rate 
 0.6 
-  0.9  
0.7  
  Other asset-backed securities: 
           Dealer floor plan 
  1,030  
 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.5 
- 2.2  
1.9  
   Diversified payment rights (3) 
  639  
 Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
1.0 
- 2.9  
1.8  
   Other commercial and consumer 
  1,665  
(4) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
0.6 
- 6.8  
2.7  
         Weighted average life 
1.0 
- 7.5  
yrs
2.9  
       87  
 Vendor priced 
     Marketable equity securities: perpetual 
         preferred 
  794  
(5) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
4.3 
- 9.3  
 %6.3  
        Weighted average life 
1.0 
- 7.0  
yrs
5.3  
Mortgages held for sale (residential) 
  3,250  
 Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
0.6 
- 14.8  
%5.5  
         Discount rate 
3.4 
- 7.5  
5.4  
         Loss severity 
1.3 
- 35.3  
26.4  
         Prepayment rate 
1.0 
- 11.0  
6.2  
Loans 
  6,021  
(6) 
Discounted cash flow 
Discount rate 
2.4 
- 2.8  
2.6  
         Prepayment rate 
1.6 
- 44.4  
11.6  
         Utilization rate 
0.0
- 2.0  
0.8  
Mortgage servicing rights (residential) 
  11,538  
 Discounted cash flow 
Cost to service per loan (7) 
$ 90- 854  
219  
         Discount rate 
6.7 
- 10.9  
%7.4  
         Prepayment rate (8) 
7.3 
- 23.7  
15.7  
Net derivative assets and (liabilities): 
         Interest rate contracts 
  162  
 Discounted cash flow 
Default rate 
0.0
- 20.0  
5.4  
         Loss severity 
45.8 
- 83.2  
51.6  
         Prepayment rate 
7.4 
- 15.6  
14.9  
 Interest rate contracts: derivative loan  
          commitments 
  497  
 Discounted cash flow 
Fall-out factor 
1.0 
- 99.0  
22.9  
       Initial-value servicing 
(13.7)
- 137.2  
bps85.6  
 Equity contracts 
  (122) 
 Option model 
Correlation factor 
(43.6)
- 94.5  
%50.3  
         Volatility factor 
3.0 
- 68.9  
26.5  
 Credit contracts 
  (1,157) 
 Market comparable pricing 
Comparability adjustment 
(34.4)
- 30.5  
0.1  
       8  
 Option model 
Credit spread 
0.1 
- 14.0  
2.0  
      Loss severity 
16.5 
- 87.5  
52.3  
             Insignificant Level 3 assets, 
         net of liabilities 
  835  
(9) 
       Total level 3 assets, net of liabilities 
$  48,775  
(10) 
                   (1) Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such as loans and securities, 
and notional amounts for derivative 
instruments. 
(2) Includes $13.3 billion of collateralized loan obligations.
 (3) Securities backed by specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign originators. 
(4) Consists primarily of investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, in which the timing of advances and 
repayments of principal are uncertain.
 (5) Consists of auction rate preferred equity securities with no maturity date that are callable by the issuer.
 (6) Consists predominantly of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured borrowing transactio
ns. 
(7) The high end of the range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the range is $90 - $437.
 (8) Includes a blend of prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prep
ayment speeds are influenced by mortgage interest rates as wel
l as our estimation of drivers of borrower 
behavior. 
(9) Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individu
ally and in the aggregate insignificant. The 
amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securi
ties, asset-backed securities backed by home equity loans, oth
er marketable equity securities, other 
assets, other liabilities and certain net derivative assets and lia
bilities, such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange cont
racts and other derivative contracts.   
(10) Consists of total Level 3 assets of $51.9 billion and total Leve
l 3 liabilities of $3.1 billion, before netting of derivative b
alances. 
212    The valuation techniques used for our Level 3 assets and 
liabilities, as presented in the 
previous table, are described as 
follows:   
 Discounted cash flow
 - Discounted cash
 flow valuation 
techniques generally consist of
 developing an estimate of 
future cash flows that are expect
ed to occur over the life of 
an instrument and then discou
nting those cash flows at a 
rate of return that results in the fair value amount.   
 Option model
 - Option model valuation techniques are 
generally used for instruments in which the holder has a 

contingent right or obligation based on the occurrence of a 

future event, such as the price of a referenced asset going 

above or below a predetermined strike price. Option models 

estimate the likelihood of the specified event occurring by 
incorporating assumptions such as volatility estimates, price 

of the underlying instrument and 
expected rate of return.     
 Market comparable pricing
 - Market comparable pricing 
valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of 
certain instruments by incorporating known inputs such as 

recent transaction prices, pendin
g transactions, or prices of 
other similar investments which require significant 

adjustment to reflect di
fferences in instrument 
characteristics.   
 Vendor-priced – Prices obtained from
 third party pricing vendors or brokers that are used to record the fair value of 
the asset or liability, of which the related valuation 

technique and significant unobservable inputs are not 

provided. 
  Significant unobservable inputs presented in the previous 

table are those we consider signif
icant to the fair value of the 
Level 3 asset or liability. We cons
ider unobservable inputs to be 
significant, if by their exclusion, 
the fair value of the Level 3 asset 
or liability would be impacted 
by a predetermined percentage 
change or based on qualitative 
factors such as nature of the 
instrument, type of valuation technique used, and the 

significance of the unobservable inputs relative to other inputs 

used within the valuation. Following is a description of the 

significant unobservable inpu
ts provided in the table. 
  Comparability adjustment
 – is an adjustment made to 
observed market data such as 
a transaction price in order to 
reflect dissimilarities in underlying collateral, issuer, rating, 
or other factors used within a market valuation approach, 

expressed as a percentage of an observed price.  
 Correlation factor
 - is the likelihood of one instrument 
changing in price relative to another based on an 
established relationship expressed as a percentage of 

relative change in price ov
er a period over time.   
 Cost to service
 - is the expected cost 
per loan of servicing a 
portfolio of loans which includes estimates for 

unreimbursed expenses (including delinquency and 

foreclosure costs) that may occur as a result of servicing 
such loan portfolios.   
 Credit spread 
– is the portion of the interest rate in excess of 
a benchmark interest rate, such as LIBOR or U.S. Treasury 
rates, that when applied to an
 investment captures changes 
in the obligor’s creditworthiness. 
 Default rate – is an estimate of the likelihood of not 
collecting contractual amounts owed expressed as a 
constant default rate (CDR).   
 Discount rate
 – is a rate of return used to present value the 
future expected cash flow to ar
rive at the fair value of an 
instrument. The discount rate consists of a benchmark rate 

component and a risk premiu
m component. The benchmark 
rate component, for example, LIBOR or U.S. Treasury rates, 
is generally observable within the market and is necessary to 

appropriately reflect the time value of money. The risk 

premium component reflects th
e amount of compensation 
market participants require due to the uncertainty inherent 

in the instruments’ cash flows resulting from risks such as 
credit and liquidity.       
 Fall-out factor
 - is the expected percentage of loans 
associated with our interest rate lock commitment portfolio 
that are likely of not funding. 
 Initial-value servicing
 - is the estimated value of the 
underlying loan, including the value attributable to the 
embedded servicing right, expressed in basis points of 

outstanding unpaid principal balance.   
 Loss severity
 – is the percentage of contractual cash flows 
lost in the event of a default.   
 Prepayment rate
 – is the estimated rate at which forecasted 
prepayments of principal of the related loan or debt 
instrument are expected to o
ccur, expressed as a constant 
prepayment rate (CPR). 
  Utilization rate
 – is the estimated rate in which incremental 
portions of existing reverse mortgage credit lines are 
expected to be drawn by borrowers, expressed as an 
annualized rate. 
 Volatility factor
 – is the extent of change in price an item is 
estimated to fluctuate over a specified period of time 
expressed as a percentage of relative change in price over a 

period over time.   
 Weighted average life
 – is the weighted average number of 
years an investment is expect
ed to remain outstanding, 
based on its expected cash fl
ows reflecting the estimated 
date the issuer will call or 
extend the maturity of the 
instrument or otherwise reflecting an estimate of the timing 

of an instrument’s cash flows whose timing is not 

contractually fixed. 
 Significant Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Asset and 
Liability Input Sensitivity 
We generally use discounted ca
sh flow or similar internal 
modeling techniques to determine the fair value of our Level 3 

assets and liabilities. Use of
 these techniques requires 
determination of relevant inpu
ts and assumptions, some of 
which represent significant unobservable inputs as indicated in 

the preceding table. Accordingly, 
changes in these unobservable 
inputs may have a significan
t impact on fair value. 
 Certain of these unobservable inputs will (in isolation) have a 
directionally consistent impact
 on the fair value of the 
instrument for a given change in that input. Alternatively, the 

fair value of the instrument may 
move in an oppo
site direction 
for a given change in another input. Where multiple inputs are 

used within the valuation techniqu
e of an asset or liability, a 
213Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
  change in one input in a certai
n direction may be offset by an 
opposite change in another in
put having a potentially muted 
impact to the overall fair value of that particular instrument. 

Additionally, a change in one unobservable input may result in a 

change to another unobservable input (that is, changes in certain 

inputs are interrelated to one another), which may counteract or 

magnify the fair value impact. 
 SECURITIES, LOANS and MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE
  The fair 
values of predominantly all Level 3 trading securities, mortgages 

held for sale, loans and securities available for sale have 

consistent inputs, valuation techniques and correlation to 

changes in underlying inputs. 
The internal models used to 
determine fair value for these Level 3 instruments use certain 
significant unobservable inputs within a discounted cash flow or 

market comparable pricing valuation technique. Such inputs 

include discount rate, prepayment rate, default rate, loss 

severity, utilization rate and weighted average life.   
 These Level 3 assets would decrease (increase) in value based 

upon an increase (decrease) in 
discount rate, default rate, loss 
severity, or weighted average life inputs. Conversely, the fair 

value of these Level 3 assets would generally increase (decrease) 
in value if the prepayment rate input were to increase (decrease) 

or if the utilization rate input were
 to increase (decrease).     
 Generally, a change in the assumption used for default rate is 

accompanied by a directionally 
similar change in the risk 
premium component of the discount rate (specifically, the 

portion related to credit risk) an
d a directionally opposite change 
in the assumption used for prepayment rates. Unobservable 
inputs for loss severity, utilization rate and weighted average life 

do not increase or 
decrease based on movements in the other 
significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3 assets.   
 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
  Level 3 derivative instruments are 
valued using market comparable pricing, option pricing and 
discounted cash flow valuation techniques. We utilize certain 

unobservable inputs within these techniques to determine the 

fair value of the Level 3 derivative instruments. The significant 
unobservable inputs consist of credit spread, a comparability 

adjustment, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, initial 

value servicing, fall-out factor, volatility factor, and correlation 
factor. 
 Level 3 derivative assets (liabilities) would decrease 
(increase) in value upon an increase (decrease) in default rate, 

fall-out factor, credit spread or loss severity inputs. Conversely, 

Level 3 derivative assets (liabiliti
es) would increase (decrease) in 
value upon an increase (decrease) in prepayment rate, initial-

value servicing or volatility factor inputs. The correlation factor 

and comparability adjust
ment inputs may have a positive or 
negative impact on the fair valu
e of these derivative instruments 
depending on the change in valu
e of the item the correlation 
factor and comparability adjust
ment is referencing. The 
correlation factor and comparabil
ity adjustment is considered 
independent from movements in other significant unobservable 

inputs for derivative instruments.  

 Generally, for derivative instruments for which we are subject 
to changes in the value of the underlying referenced instrument, 
change in the assumption used 
for default rate is accompanied 
by directionally similar change 
in the risk premium component 
of the discount rate (specifically
, the portion related to credit 
risk) and a directionally opposite 
change in the assumption used 
for prepayment rates. Unobservable inputs for loss severity, fall-

out factor, initial-value servicing, and volatility do not increase 

or decrease based on move
ments in other significant 
unobservable inputs for these Level 3 instruments.    
 MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS
  We use a discounted cash flow 
valuation technique to determine the fair value of Level 3 

mortgage servicing rights. Th
ese models utilize certain 
significant unobservable inputs including prepayment rate, 

discount rate and costs to service. An increase in any of these 

unobservable inputs will reduce the fair value of the mortgage 

servicing rights and alternatively, a decrease in any one of these 

inputs would result in the mortgage
 servicing rights increasing in 
value. Generally, a change in the assumption used for the default 

rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the 
assumption used for cost to service and a directionally opposite 

change in the assumption used for prepayment. The sensitivity 

of our residential MSRs is discussed further in Note 8. 
214     Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a 
Nonrecurring Basis 
We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain 
assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with 

GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from 

application of LOCOM accounting or write-downs of individual 
assets. For assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
in 2012 and 2011 that were still held in the balance sheet at each 

respective period end, the following table provides the fair value 

hierarchy and the fair value of the related individual assets or 

portfolios at period end. 
         December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2011 
(in millions) 
  Level 1
 Level 2
Level 3 
Total
 Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3 
Total
Mortgages held for sale (LOCOM) (1) 
$  -   1,509 
 1,045  
 2,554 
  -   1,019 
 1,166  
 2,185 
Loans held for sale 
  -   4 
 -   4 
  -   86 
 -  
 86 
Loans: 
           Commercial 
  -   1,507 
 -   1,507 
  -   1,501 
 13  
 1,514 
 Consumer (2) 
  -   5,889 
 4  
 5,893 
  -   4,163 
 4  
 4,167 
  Total loans (3) 
  -   7,396 
 4  
 7,400 
  - 
  5,664 
 17  
 5,681 
Mortgage servicing rights (amortized) 
  -   -  -   -   -   - 
 293  
 293 
Other assets (4) 
  -   989 
 144  
 1,133 
  -   537 
 67  
 604 
 (1) Predominantly real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans. 
(2) The December 31, 2012, amount includes fair value of $2.0 billio
n for consumer loans that were 
written down in accordance with 
OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012. 
(3) Represents carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value of the collateral.  
(4) Includes the fair value of foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured at fair value subsequent to the
ir initial classification as foreclosed assets. 
  The following table presents the increase (decrease) in value 
of certain assets that are measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis for which a fair value adjustment has been 

recognized in the periods presented. 
                             Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
 2012  
 2011  Mortgages held for sale (LOCOM) 
$  37  
  29 
 Loans held for sale 
  1  
  22 
 Loans: 
     Commercial  
  (795) 
  (1,043)
  Consumer (1) 
  (4,989) 
  (4,905)
   Total loans  
  (5,784) 
  (5,948)
 Mortgage servicing rights (amortized) 
  -    (34)
 Other assets (2) 
  (316) 
  (256)
    Total 
$  (6,062) 
  (6,187)
            (1) Represents write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral. 
The year ended December 31, 2012, includes $888 million resulting from 

consumer loans written down in accordance with OCC guidance issued in third 

quarter 2012.  
(2) Includes the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that 
were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as 
foreclosed assets. 
215Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
    The table below provides quantitative information about the 
valuation techniques and significan
t unobservable inputs used in 
the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and 

liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for 

which we use an internal model. 

 We have excluded from the table classes of Level 3 assets and 

liabilities measured using an in
ternal model that we consider, 
both individually and in the aggr
egate, insignificant relative to 
our overall Level 3 nonrecurring measurements. We made this 

determination based upon an ev
aluation of each class which 
considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the 

unobservable inputs and potential 
for significant changes in fair 
value due to changes in those inputs. 
         Fair Value 
  Significant 
 Range 
 Weighted 
 ($ in millions) 
 Level 3 
 Valuation Technique(s) (1)
Unobservable Inputs (1) 
 of inputs 
 Average (2) 
 December 31, 2012 
            Residential mortgages held for sale 
             (LOCOM) 
$  1,045  
(3) 
Discounted cash flow
Default rate 
(4) 
2.9  - 21.2  % 7.9  %            Discount rate 
 4.1  - 11.9   10.9              Loss severity 
 2.0  - 45.0   6.0              Prepayment rate 
(5) 
1.0  - 100.0   66.7   Insignificant level 3 assets 
  148  
           Total 
    1,193  
          (1) Refer to the narrative following the recurring quantitative Level 3 table of this Note for a definition of the valuation techni
que(s) and significant unobservable inputs. 
(2) Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance of the loans. 
(3) Consists of approximately $942 million government insured/guaranteed loans purchased from GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitizati
on and $103 million of other mortgage 
loans which are not government insured/guaranteed. 
(4) Applies only to non-government insured/guaranteed loans. 
(5) Includes the impact on prepayment rate of expected defaults for the government insured/guaranteed loans, which impacts the freq
uency and timing of early resolution of 
loans. 
 Alternative Investments 
The following table summarizes our investments in various types 

of funds, which are included in trading assets, securities 

available for sale and other assets. We use the funds’ net asset 
values (NAVs) per share as a practical expedient to measure fair 
value on recurring and nonrecurring bases. The fair values 

presented in the table are based upon the funds’ NAVs or an 

equivalent measure. 
           Redemption
         Fair Unfunded
Redemption 
notice 
(in millions) 
 value 
commitments
frequency 
period 
December 31, 2012 
    Offshore funds  
$  379  
 - Daily - Annually 
1 - 180 days 
Funds of funds 
  1  
 - Quarterly 
90 days 
Hedge funds 
  2  
 - Daily - Annually 
5 - 95 days 
Private equity funds  
  807  
 195 
N/A 
N/A 
Venture capital funds  
  82  
 21 
N/A 
N/A 
 Total 
$  1,271  
 216 
  December 31, 2011
     Offshore funds  
$  352  
 - 
Daily - Annually 
1 - 180 days 
Funds of funds 
  1  
 - 
Quarterly 
90 days 
Hedge funds 
  22  
 - 
Daily - Annually 
5 - 95 days 
Private equity funds  
  976  
 240 
N/A 
N/A 
Venture capital funds 
  83 
  28 
N/A 
N/A 
 Total 
$  1,434  
 268 
  N/A - Not applicable 
 Offshore funds primarily invest in investment grade 
European fixed-income securities
. Redemption restrictions are 
in place for these investments with a fair value of $189 million 

and $200 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, 
due to lock-up provisions that will 
remain in effect until October 
2015.  

 Private equity funds invest in
 equity and debt securities 
issued by private and publicly-held companies in connection 

with leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and expansion 

opportunities. Substantially all of
 these investments do not allow 
redemptions. Alternatively, we receive distributions as the 
underlying assets of the funds liquidate, which we expect to 

occur over the next eight years.  

 Venture capital funds invest
 in domestic and foreign 
companies in a variety of industries, including information 

technology, financial services and healthcare. These investments 
can never be redeemed with the funds. Instead, we receive 
distributions as the underlying assets of the fund liquidate, 

which we expect to occur over the next five years.
 216    Fair Value Option 
We measure MHFS at fair value 
for prime MHFS originations 
for which an active secondary market and readily available 

market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models 

used for these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are 

recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination costs 

are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value 

certain of our other interests held related to residential loan 

sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for 

prime MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-

standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs 

measured at fair value, reduce
s certain timing differences and 
better matches changes in the valu
e of these assets with changes 
in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these 

assets. 

 We elected to measure certain LHFS portfolios at fair value in 

conjunction with customer accommo
dation activities, to better 
align the measurement basis of the assets held with our 

management objectives given the trading nature of these 

portfolios. In addition, we elected to measure at fair value 
certain letters of credit that
 are hedged with derivative 
instruments to better reflect the economics of the transactions. 
These letters of credit are included in trading account assets or 
liabilities. 

 Loans that we measure at fair value consist predominantly of 

reverse mortgage loans previously transferred under a GNMA 

reverse mortgage securitization program accounted for as a 

secured borrowing. Before the transfer, they were classified as 

MHFS measured at fair value and, as such, remain carried on 

our balance sheet under the fair value option. 

 Similarly, we may elect fair value option for the assets and 

liabilities of certain consolidated 
VIEs. This option is generally 
elected for newly consolidated VI
Es for which predominantly all 
of our interests, prior to consolidation, are carried at fair value 

with changes in fair value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, 

such an election allows us to 
continue fair value accounting 
through earnings for those interests and eliminate income 

statement mismatch otherwise ca
used by differences in the 
measurement basis of the co
nsolidated VIEs assets and 
liabilities.  

 The following table reflects the differences between fair value 

carrying amount of certain assets and liabilities for which we 

have elected the fair value option and the contractual aggregate 

unpaid principal amount at maturity.
      December 31, 2012 
 December 31, 2011
        Fair value
   Fair value 
       carrying
   carrying 
       amount
   amount 
       less
   less 
    Fair value
 Aggregate 
aggregate
 Fair value
 Aggregate 
aggregate 
     carrying 
unpaid 
unpaid
 carrying
 unpaid 
unpaid 
 (in millions) 
 amount 
principal 
principal
amount
 principal 
principal 
 Mortgages held for sale: 
          Total loans 
$  42,305  
 41,183  
 1,122 
(1) 
 44,791 
  43,687  
 1,104  
(1) 
 Nonaccrual loans  
  309 
  655  
 (346)
  265 
  584  
 (319) 
  Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing 
  49 
  64  
 (15)
  44 
  56  
 (12) 
 Loans held for sale: 
          Total loans 
  6 
  10  
 (4)
  1,176 
  1,216  
 (40) 
  Nonaccrual loans  
  2 
  6  
 (4)
  25 
  39  
 (14) 
 Loans: 
        Total loans 
  6,206  
 5,669  
 537 
  5,916 
  5,441  
 475  
  Nonaccrual loans  
  89  
 89  
 -  32 
  32  
 -  
 Long-term debt 
  (1)
  (1,157) 
 1,156 
(2) 
 - 
  -  
 -  
  (1) The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpa
id principal includes changes in fair value recorded at and
 subsequent to funding, gains and losses on 
the related loan commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans. 
(2) Represents collateralized, non-recourse debt securities issued by
 certain of our consolidated securitization VIEs that are held
 by third party investors. To the extent cash 
flows from the underlying collateral are not sufficient to pay the unpaid principal amount of the debt, those third party inves
tors absorb losses. 
217Note 17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 
(continued) 
   The assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value 
option are initially measured at fair value. Gains and losses from 

initial measurement and subseque
nt changes in fair value are 
recognized in earnings. The chan
ges in fair value related to 
initial measurement and subseq
uent changes in fair value 
included in earnings for these assets and liabilities measured at 

fair value are shown, by inco
me statement line item, below. 
   2012  
  2011 
  2010  
  Net gains 
   Net gains
  Net gains 
  Mortgage 
(losses) 
  Mortgage
 (losses)
 Mortgage 
(losses) 
  banking 
from 
Other
 banking
 from
Other  banking 
from 
Other  noninterest 
trading 
noninterest 
 noninterest 
trading
noninterest
 noninterest 
trading 
noninterest 
(in millions) 
 income
 activities 
income 
 income 
activities
income
 income 
activities 
income 
Year ended December 31,
           Mortgages held for sale 
$  8,240  
 -   1  
  6,084  
 - 
 - 
  6,512  
 -  
 -  
Loans held for sale 
  -   -   21  
  -  
 - 
 32 
  -  
 -  
 24  
Loans 
  -   -   63  
  13  
 - 
 80 
  55  
 -  
 -  
Long-term debt 
  -   -   (27) 
  (11) 
 - 
 - 
  (48) 
 -  
 -  
Other interests held 
  -   (42) 
 34  
  -  
 (25)
 - 
  -  
 (13) 
 -  
               For performing loans, instrument
-specific credit risk gains or 
losses were derived principally by 
determining the change in fair 
value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied 

credit spread. Credit spread is 
the market yield on the loans less 
the relevant risk-free benchmark interest rate. In recent years 

spreads have been significantly affe
cted by the lack of liquidity in 
the secondary market for mortgage loans. For nonperforming 

loans, we attribute all changes 
in fair value to instrument-
specific credit risk. The following table shows the estimated 
gains and losses from earnings
 attributable to instrument-
specific credit risk related to a
ssets accounted for under the fair 
value option. 
    Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011 
 2010 Gains (losses) attributable to 
     instrument-specific credit risk: 
     Mortgages held for sale 
$  (124) 
 (144)
  (28)
 Loans held for sale 
  21  
 32 
 24   Total 
$  (103) 
 (112)
  (4)
       218    Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
The table below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial 

instruments, excluding financial 
instruments recorded at fair 
value on a recurring basis as they are included within the Assets 

and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis table 

included earlier in this Note. The carrying amounts in the 

following table are recorded in the balance sheet under the 

indicated captions. 
We have not included assets 
and liabilities that are not 
financial instruments in our disclosure, such as the value of the 

long-term relationships with our 
deposit, credit card and trust 
customers, amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill 

and other intangibles, deferred taxes and other liabilities. The 

total of the fair value calculatio
ns presented does not represent, 
and should not be construed to 
represent, the underlying value 
of the Company. 
     December 31, 2012
  December 31, 2011
       Estimated fair value
   (in millions) 
 Carrying 
amount
 Level 1
Level 2 
Level 3
Total 
 Carrying
amount
Estimated 
fair value 
 Financial assets
            Cash and due from banks (1)
 $  21,860  
 21,860 
 -   -  21,860  
  19,440 
 19,440  
  Federal funds sold, securities purchased
             under resale agreements and 
            other short-term investments (1) 
  137,313 
  5,046 
 132,267  
 -  137,313  
  44,367 
 44,367  
  Mortgages held for sale (2) 
  4,844 
  -  3,808  
 1,045 
 4,853  
  3,566 
 3,566  
  Loans held for sale (2) 
  104  
 -  83  
 29 
 112  
  162 
 176  
  Loans, net (3) 
  763,968  
 -  56,237  
 716,114 
 772,351  
  731,308 
 723,867  
  Nonmarketable equity investments (cost method) 
  6,799  
 -  2  
 8,229 
 8,231  
  8,061 
 8,490  
 Financial liabilities
            Deposits
   1,002,835  
 -  946,922  
 57,020 
 1,003,942  
  920,070 
 921,803  
  Short-term borrowings (1)  
  57,175  
 -  57,175  
 -  57,175  
  49,091 
 49,091  
  Long-term debt (4) 
  127,366  
 -  119,220  
 11,063 
 130,283  
  125,238 
 126,484  
  (1) Amounts consist of financial instruments in which carrying value approximates fair value. 
(2) Balance reflects MHFS and LHFS, as applicable, other than those MHFS and LHFS for which election of the fair value option was m
ade. 
(3) Loans exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected and also exclude lease financing with a carrying amount of $
12.4 billion and $13.1 billion at 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
(4) The carrying amount and fair value exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected and obligations under capital l
eases of $12 million and $116 million at 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  
  Loan commitments, standby le
tters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit are 
not included in the table above.  
A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is 

the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related allowance. 

This amounted to $586 million and $495 million at 

December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 219   Note 18:  Preferred Stock 
 We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock 
and 4 million shares of preference stock, both without par value. 

Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares 

both as to dividend
s and liquidation preference but have no 
general voting rights. We have not issued any preference shares 
under this authorizatio
n. If issued, preference shares would be 
limited to one vote per share. Our total issued and outstanding 
preferred stock includes Dividend Equalization Preferred (DEP) 
shares and Series I, J, K, L, N and O which are presented in the 
following two tables, and Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
(ESOP) Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, which is 
presented in the second tabl
e below and the table on the 
following page.  
        December 31, 
       2012
 2011 
        Liquidation 
Shares
  Liquidation 
Shares 
        preference 
authorized
  preference 
authorized 
  per share 
and designated
  per share 
and designated 
DEP Shares
       Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares 
$  10  
 97,000 
 $  10  
 97,000  
Series G 
       7.25% Class A Preferred Stock 
  15,000  
 50,000 
   15,000  
 50,000  
Series H
       Floating Class A Preferred Stock 
  20,000  
 50,000 
   20,000  
 50,000  
Series I 
       Floating Class A Preferred Stock 
  100,000  
 25,010 
   100,000  
 25,010  
Series J 
        8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
  1,000  
 2,300,000 
   1,000  
 2,300,000  
Series K 
        7.98% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
  1,000  
 3,500,000 
   1,000  
 3,500,000  
Series L
        7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock 
  1,000  
 4,025,000 
   1,000  
 4,025,000  
Series N
        5.20% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
  25,000  
 30,000 
   -  
 -  
Series O
        5.125% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
  25,000  
 27,600 
   -  
 -  
 Total 
   10,104,610 
    10,047,010  
        December 31, 2012
December 31, 2011
        Shares
    Shares 
    issued and
  Par 
Carrying
 issued and 
 Par 
Carrying
 (in millions, except shares) 
outstanding
  value 
value
Discount 
outstanding 
  value 
value
Discount 
DEP Shares
         Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares 
 96,546 
 $  -   -  -   96,546  
$  -  
 -  -  
Series I 
(1) 
        Floating Class A Preferred Stock 
 25,010 
   2,501  
 2,501 
 -   25,010  
  2,501  
 2,501 
 -  
Series J 
(1) 
           8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
 2,150,375 
   2,150  
 1,995 
 155  
  2,150,375  
  2,150  
 1,995 
 155  
Series K 
(1) 
           7.98% Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
 3,352,000 
   3,352  
 2,876 
 476  
  3,352,000  
  3,352  
 2,876 
 476  
Series L 
(1) 
           7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock 
 3,968,000 
   3,968  
 3,200 
 768  
  3,968,000  
  3,968  
 3,200 
 768  
Series N 
(1) 
           5.20% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock 
 30,000 
   750  
 750 
 -    -  
  -  
 -  -  
Series O 
(1) 
           5.125% Non-Cumulative Per
petual Class A Preferred Stock 
 26,000 
   650  
 650 
 -    -  
  -  
 -  -  
ESOP
            Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock 
 910,934 
   911  
 911 
 -    858,759  
 859  
859  -  
 Total 
 10,558,865 
 $  14,282  
 12,883 
 1,399  
  10,450,690  
$  12,830  
 11,431 
 1,399  
(1) Preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital. 
220     In August 2012, we issued 30 million Depositary Shares, each 
representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series N, for an 

aggregate public offering price of $750 million. 

  In November 2012, we issued
 26 million Depositary Shares, 
each representing a 1/1,000
th interest in a share of the Non-
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series O, for an 

aggregate public offering price of $650 million. 

 See Note 8 for additional information on our trust preferred 

securities. We do not have a commitment to issue Series G or H 

preferred stock. 
 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
  All shares of our ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock 

(ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf 
of the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). 
Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the 

date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at annual rates 

based upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred 

Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan is 

converted into shares of our common stock based on the stated 

value of the ESOP Preferred Stock and the then current market 

price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also 

convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless 

previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP 

Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption 

price per share equal to the high
er of (a) $1,000 per share plus 
accrued and unpaid dividends or 
(b) the fair market value, as 
defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred 

Stock.          Shares issued and outstanding 
  Carrying value 
 Adjustable
        December 31,
 December 31,
 dividend rate 
(in millions, except shares) 
 2012 
  2011 
   2012  
  2011 
Minimum
Maximum 
ESOP Preferred Stock 
            $1,000 liquidation preference per share
             2012     245,604 
  - 
 $  246  
  - 
  10.00 
%  11.00 
 2011     277,263 
  370,280 
   277  
  370 
  9.00 
  10.00 
 2010     201,011 
  231,361 
   201  
  232 
  9.50 
  10.50 
 2008     73,434 
  89,154 
   73  
  89 
  10.50 
  11.50 
 2007     53,768 
  68,414 
   54  
  69 
  10.75 
  11.75 
 2006     33,559 
  46,112 
   34  
  46 
  10.75 
  11.75 
 2005     18,882 
  30,092 
   19  
  30 
  9.75 
  10.75 
 2004     7,413 
  17,115 
   7  
  17 
  8.50 
  9.50 
 2003     -   6,231 
   -    6 
  8.50 
  9.50 
Total ESOP Preferred Stock (1) 
 910,934 
  858,759 
 $  911  
  859 
    Unearned ESOP shares (2) 
   $  (986) 
  (926)
     (1) At December 31, 2012 and 2011, additional paid-in capital included $75 million and $67 million, respectively, related to prefer
red stock. 
 (2) We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The une
arned ESOP shares are reduced as 
shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are committed to be released.  
              
               221   Note 19:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
 Common Stock 
The following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized 
shares of common stock at December 31, 2012. 
   Number of shares 
Dividend reinvestment and  
  common stock purchase plans 
 4,818,377  
Director plans 
 1,215,481  
Stock plans (1) 
 652,061,838  
Convertible securities and warrants 
 104,944,767  
 Total shares reserved 
 763,040,463  
Shares issued 
 5,481,811,474  
Shares not reserved 
 2,755,148,063  
 Total shares authorized 
 9,000,000,000  
(1) Includes employee options, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), 
profit sharing and compensation deferral plans. 
 At December 31, 2012, we have warrants outstanding and 
exercisable to purchase 39,109,299 shares of our common stock 
with an exercise price of $34.01 per share, expiring on 

October 28, 2018. We purchased 70,210 and 264,972 of these 

warrants in 2012 and 2011, respectively. These warrants were 

issued in connection with our p
articipation in the TARP CPP. 
 Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock 

Purchase Plans 
Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock 
direct purchase plans may purchase shares of our common stock 

at fair market value by reinve
sting dividends and/or making 
optional cash payments, under the plan's terms. 
 Employee Stock Plans 
We offer stock-based employee co
mpensation plans as described 
below. For information on our accounting for stock-based 
compensation plans, see Note 1. 

 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS
 Our Long- 
Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides for awards 

of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation 

rights, restricted shares, RSRs, performance share awards and 

stock awards without restrictions. 
 During 2012, 2011 and 2010 we granted RSRs and 
performance shares as our primary long-term incentive awards 

instead of stock options. Holders of RSRs are entitled to the 

related shares of common stock at 
no cost generally over three to 
five years after the RSRs were granted. Holders of RSRs may be 

entitled to receive a
dditional RSRs (dividend equivalents) or 
cash payments equal to the cash 
dividends that would have been 
paid had the RSRs been issued and outstanding shares of 

common stock. RSRs granted as di
vidend equivalents are subject 
to the same vesting schedule an
d conditions as the underlying 
RSRs. RSRs generally continue to vest after retirement according 

to the original vesting schedule. 
Except in limited circumstances, 
RSRs are cancelled when employment ends. 

 Holders of each vested performance share are entitled to the 

related shares of common stock at no cost. Performance shares 
continue to vest after retirement according to the original vesting 
schedule subject to satisfying th
e performance crit
eria and other 
vesting conditions. 

 Stock options must have an ex
ercise price at or above fair 
market value (as defined in the pl
an) of the stock at the date of 
grant (except for substitute or 
replacement options granted in 
connection with mergers or other acquisitions) and a term of no 

more than 10 years. Except for 
options granted in 2004 and 
2005, which generally vested in full upon grant, options 

generally become exercisable over three years beginning on the 

first anniversary of the date of grant. Except as otherwise 

permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons 

other than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option 

exercise period is reduced or
 the options are cancelled. 
 Options granted prior to 2004 may include the right to 

acquire a “reload” stock option. If an option contains the reload 

feature and if a participant pays all or part of the exercise price 

of the option with shares of st
ock purchased in the market or 
held by the participant for at least six months and, in either case, 
not used in a similar transaction in the last six months, upon 
exercise of the option, the participant is granted a new option to 

purchase at the fair market value of the stock as of the date of the 

reload, the number of shares of stock equal to the sum of the 

number of shares used in payment of the exercise price and a 

number of shares with respect 
to related statutory minimum 
withholding taxes. Reload grants are fully vested upon grant and 

are expensed immediately. 

 Compensation expense for RSRs and performance shares is 

based on the quoted market price of the related stock at the 

grant date. Stock option expense is based on the fair value of the 

awards at the date of grant. The following table summarizes the 

major components of stock ince
ntive compensation expense and 
the related recognized tax benefit. 
       Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
 2012
2011 2010RSRs 
$  435 
 338 
  252 
Performance shares 
  112 
 128 
  66 
Stock options 
  13 
 63 
  118 
 Total stock incentive compensation 
       expense 
$  560 
 529 
  436 
Related recognized tax benefit 
$  211 
 200 
  165 
                    For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee 
and director stock options of acqu
ired or merged companies into 
stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms 

of the original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange 

ratio. In addition, we converted restricted stock awards into 

awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting 

conditions are met. Holders receive cash dividends on 

outstanding awards if provid
ed in the original award. 
 The total number of shares of common stock available for 

grant under the plans at December 31, 2012, was 173 million. 
 222    PARTNERSHARES
 PLAN
  In 1996, we adopted the 
PartnerShares
® Stock Option Plan, a broad-based employee 
stock option plan. It covered full- and part-time employees who 

generally were not included in the LTICP described above. No 

options have been granted under the plan since 2002, and as a 

result of action taken by the Board of Directors on 

January 22, 2008, no future aw
ards will be granted under the 
plan. All of our 
PartnerShares
 Plan grants were fully vested as of 
December 31, 2007, and no options were outstanding as of 

December 31, 2012. 
 Director Awards 
Under the LTICP, we grant 
common stock and options to 
purchase common stock to non-em
ployee directors elected or re-
elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and prorated 

awards to directors who join the Board at any other time. The 

stock award vests immediately. Options granted to directors can 

be exercised after twelve months through the tenth anniversary 

of the grant date. Options grante
d prior to 2005 may include the 
right to acquire a “reload” stock option.  
 Restricted Share Rights 
A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards 
at December 31, 2012, and changes during 2012 is in the 

following table: 
        Weighted- 
       average 
       grant-date 
     Number 
fair value 
Nonvested at January 1, 2012 
 39,280,129  
 $  28.81  
Granted 
 19,766,280  
   31.49  
Vested 
 (2,620,424) 
   28.53  
Canceled or forfeited 
 (1,138,648) 
   29.10  
Nonvested at December 31, 2012 
 55,287,337  
   29.78  
  The weighted-average grant date
 fair value of RSRs granted 
during 2011 and 2010 was $31.02 and $27.29, respectively. 

 At December 31, 2012, there was $671 million of total 

unrecognized compensation cost 
related to nonvested RSRs. The 
cost is expected to 
be recognized over a weighted-average period 
of 2.9 years. The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2012, 

2011 and 2010 was $89 million, $41 million and $15 million, 
respectively. 
 Performance Share Awards 
Holders of performance share awards are entitled to the related 

shares of common stock at no cost subject to the Company's 

achievement of specified performance criteria over a three-year 

period ending December 31, 2013, June 30, 2013, and December 

31, 2012. Performance share awards are granted at a target 

number; based on the Company's 
performance, the number of 
awards that vest can be adjusted downward to zero and upward 

to a maximum of either 125% or 
150% of target. The awards vest 
in the quarter after the end of the performance period. For 

performance share awards whose performance period ended 

December 31, 2012, the determination of the awards that will 

vest will occur in the first quarter of 2013, after review of the 

Company’s performance by the 
Human Resources Committee of 
the Board of Directors. 

 A summary of the status of our performance awards at 

December 31, 2012, and changes during 2012 is in the following 

table, based on the target amount of awards: 
        Weighted- 
       average 
       grant date 
     Number
 fair value 
Nonvested at January 1, 2012 
 6,404,965 
 $  29.68  
Granted 
 3,889,916 
   31.44  
Nonvested at December 31, 2012 
 10,294,881 
   30.35  
  The weighted-average grant date
 fair value of performance 
awards granted during 2011 and 2010 was $31.26 and $27.46, 

respectively. 
 At December 31, 2012, there was $89 million of total 

unrecognized compensation 
cost related to nonvested 
performance awards. The cost is e
xpected to be recognized over 
a weighted-average period of 1.8 years. As of December 31, 2012, 
no performance shares were vested. 
223Note 19:  Common Stock and Stock Plans 
(continued) 
   Stock Options 
The table below summarizes stock option activity and related 
information for the stock plans. Options assumed in mergers are 

included in the activity and related information for Incentive 
Compensation Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, 
and in the activity and related information for Director Awards if 

originally issued under a director plan. 
           Weighted- 
           Weighted- 
average 
 Aggregate 
         average 
remaining 
 intrinsic 
         exercise 
contractual 
 value 
      Number 
  price 
term (in yrs.) 
 (in millions) 
Incentive compensation plans
         Options outstanding as of December 31, 2011 
 271,298,603  
 $  38.14  
     Granted 
  1,828,758  
   31.82  
     Canceled or forfeited 
 (11,376,806) 
   73.59  
     Exercised 
 (58,824,163) 
   21.78  
    Options exercisable and outstanding as of December 31, 2012 
 202,926,392  
   40.84  
 3.7  
 $  1,119  
              PartnerShares
 Plan         Options outstanding as of December 31, 2011 
 7,477,472  
   25.25  
     Canceled or forfeited 
 (606,614) 
   25.25  
     Exercised 
 (6,870,858) 
   25.25  
    Options outstanding as of December 31, 2012 
 -  
   -  
 -  
   -  
              Director awards
         Options outstanding as of December 31, 2011 
 721,432  
   29.56  
     Granted 
  82,893  
   33.82  
     Canceled or forfeited 
 (19,232) 
   33.41  
     Exercised 
 (197,071) 
   25.45  
    Options exercisable and outstanding as of December 31, 2012 
 588,022  
   31.42  
 3.2  
   2  
               As of December 31, 2012, there was no unrecognized 
compensation cost related to stock options. The total intrinsic 

value of options exercised during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 

$694 million, $246 million and $298 million, respectively. 

 Cash received from the exerci
se of stock options for 2012, 
2011 and 2010 was $1.5 billion, 
$554 million and $687 million, 
respectively. 

 We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to 

satisfy share option exercises. Rather, we have a general policy 

on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance 

requirements for our benefit plans (including share option 

exercises), conversion of our convertible securities, acquisitions 

and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the 

amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our 

capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for 

acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions 

(including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and 

legal considerations. These factors can change at any time, and 

there can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will 

repurchase or when we will repurchase them. 

  The fair value of each option award granted on or after 
January 1, 2006, is estimated us
ing a Black-Scholes valuation 
model. The expected term of re
load options granted is generally 
based on the midpoint betwee
n the valuation date and the 
contractual termination date of th
e original option. Our expected 
volatilities are based on a combination of the historical volatility 

of our common stock and implied volatilities for traded options 

on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. 

Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in
 effect at the time of grant. 
Both expected volatility and th
e risk-free rates are based on a 
period commensurate with our expected term. The expected 

dividend is based on a fixed dividend amount.  

  224    The following table presents the weighted-average per share 
fair value of options granted and the assumptions used, based on 

a Black-Scholes option valuation mo
del. Substantially all of the 
options granted in the years shown resulted from the reload 

feature. 
     Year ended December 31,
     2012 
 2011 2010 Per share fair value of options granted 
$  2.79  
  3.78  
 6.11  
Expected volatility 
  29.2  
%  32.7 
  44.3  
Expected dividends 
$  0.68  
  0.32 
  0.20  
Expected term (in years) 
  0.7  
  1.0 
  1.3  
Risk-free interest rate 
  0.1  
%  0.2 
  0.6  
         Employee Stock Ownership Plan  
The Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a 
defined contribution plan with
 an Employee Stock Ownership 
Plan (ESOP) feature. The ESOP feature enables the 401(k) Plan 

to borrow money to purchase our preferred or common stock. 

From 1994 through 2012, with the exception of 2009, we loaned 

money to the 401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP 

preferred stock. As our employer
 contributions are made to the 
401(k) Plan and are used by the 401(k) Plan to make ESOP loan 
payments, the ESOP preferred stock in the 401(k) Plan is 

released and converted into
 our common stock shares. 
Dividends on the common stock shares allocated as a result of 

the release and conversion of the ESOP preferred stock reduce 

retained earnings and the shares are considered outstanding for 

computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated 

ESOP preferred stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the 

shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for 

computing earnings per share. Loan principal and interest 

payments are made from our em
ployer contributions to the 
401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP preferred 

stock. With each principal and inte
rest payment, a portion of the 
ESOP preferred stock is releas
ed and converted to common 
stock shares, which are allocated to the 401(k) Plan participants 

and invested in the Wells Fargo ESOP Fund within the 401(k) 

Plan.  
      The balance of common stock and unreleased preferred stock 
held in the Wells Fargo ESOP Fund, the fair value of unreleased 

ESOP preferred stock and the dividends on allocated shares of 

common stock and unreleased ESOP preferred stock paid to the 

401(k) Plan were: 
     Shares outstanding 
    December 31, 
(in millions, except shares) 
 2012
 20112010 Allocated shares (common) 
  136,821,035 
  131,046,406 
 118,901,327  
Unreleased shares (preferred) 
  910,934 
  858,759 
 618,382  
Fair value of unreleased ESOP preferred shares 
$  911  
 859 
 618  
           Dividends paid 
    Year ended December 31, 
    2012
 20112010 Allocated shares (common) 
$  117  
 60 
 23  
Unreleased shares (preferred) 
  115 
  95 
 76  
              Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Sales 
Agents 
WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to sponsor a deferred 

compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide 
investment, financial and other qualifying services for or with 
respect to participating affiliates. 
The Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for 
Independent Contractors, which became effective January 1, 

2002, allows participants to defer all or part of their eligible 

compensation payable to them by a participating affiliate. The 

Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred 

compensation obligations of
 WF Deferred Compensation 
Holdings, Inc. under the plan. 
225   Note 20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
 Pension and Postretirement Plans 
We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined benefit 
retirement plan, the Wells Fargo & Company Cash Balance Plan 

(Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of 

Wells Fargo. Benefits accrued un
der the Cash Balance Plan were 
frozen effective July 1, 2009. 

 Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees' Cash Balance Plan 
accounts were allocated a comp
ensation credit based on a 
percentage of their qualifying compensation. The compensation 

credit percentage was based on ag
e and years of credited service. 
The freeze discontinues the allocation of compensation credits 

after June 30, 2009. Investment cr
edits continue to be allocated 
to participants based on th
eir accumulated balances.  
 We did not make a contribution 
to our Cash Balance Plan in 
2012. We do not expect that we
 will be required to make a 
contribution to the Ca
sh Balance Plan in 20
13; however, this is 
dependent on the finalization of the actuarial valuation in 2013. 

Our decision of whether to make a 
contribution in 2013 will be 
based on various factors including the actual investment 
performance of plan assets during 2013. Given these 

uncertainties, we cannot estimate 
at this time the amount, if any, 
that we will contribute in 2013 
to the Cash Balance Plan. For the 
nonqualified pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, 

there is no minimum required co
ntribution beyond the amount 
needed to fund benefit payments; 
we may contribute more to our 
postretirement benefit plans dependent on various factors. 

 We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain 

retired employees and reserve the right to terminate, modify or 

amend any of the benefits at any time. 

 The information set forth in the following tables is based on 
current actuarial reports using the measurement date of 

December 31 for our pension and 
postretirement benefit plans. 
The changes in the projected benefit obligation of pension 
benefits and the accumulated post
retirement benefit obligation 
of other benefits and the fair value of plan assets, the funded 

status and the amounts recognized in the balance sheet were: 
       December 31,
        2012  
  2011 
       Pension benefits
  Pension benefits
         Non- 
Other 
  Non-
Other 
(in millions) 
Qualified
 qualified 
benefits 
Qualified 
qualified
benefits 
Change in benefit obligation: 
    Benefit obligation at beginning of year 
$  10,634  
 691  
 1,304  
  10,337 
  693 
 1,398  
 Service cost  
  3  
 -   11  
  6 
  1 
 13  
 Interest cost  
  514  
 32  
 60  
  520 
  34 
 71  
 Plan participants’ contributions  
  -   -   80  
  - 
  - 
 88  
 Actuarial loss (gain)  
  1,242  
 62  
 (23) 
  501 
  33 
 (105) 
 Benefits paid  
  (725) 
 (66) 
 (147) 
  (726)
  (70)
 (171) 
 Medicare Part D subsidy 
  -   -   11  
  - 
  - 
 10  
 Curtailment 
  -   -   (3) 
  (3)
  - 
 -  
 Amendments  
  1  
 -   -    - 
  - 
 -  
 Liability transfer 
  47  
 -   -    - 
  - 
 -  
 Foreign exchange impact  
  1  
 -   -    (1)
  - 
 -  
  Benefit obligation at end of year 
  11,717  
 719  
 1,293  
 10,634 
  691 
 1,304  
Change in plan assets: 
        Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 
  9,061 
  -   640  
  9,639  
 - 
 697  
 Actual return on plan assets  
  1,149 
  -   55  
  139  
 - 
 10  
 Employer contribution  
  9  
 66  
 (3) 
  10  
 70 
 6  
 Plan participants’ contributions  
  -   -   80  
  -  
 - 
 88  
 Benefits paid 
  (725) 
 (66) 
 (147) 
  (726) 
 (70)
 (171) 
 Medicare Part D subsidy 
  -   -   11  
  -  
 - 
 10  
 Asset transfer 
  44  
 -   -    -  
 - 
 -  
 Foreign exchange impact  
  1  
 -   -    (1) 
 - 
 -  
  Fair value of plan assets at end of year 
  9,539  
 -   636  
  9,061 
  - 
 640  
Funded status at end of year 
$  (2,178) 
 (719) 
 (657) 
  (1,573) 
 (691)
 (664) 
Amounts recognized in the balance sheet at end of year: 
         Liabilities 
$  (2,178) 
 (719) 
 (657) 
  (1,573) 
 (691)
 (664) 
226    The following table provides information for pension plans 
with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. 
     December 31,
(in millions) 
 2012  
 2011 
Projected benefit obligation 
$  12,391  
 11,325 
Accumulated benefit obligation 
  12,389  
 11,321 
Fair value of plan assets 
  9,490  
 9,061 
   The components of net periodic benefit cost and other 
comprehensive income were: 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       December 31,
       2012 
  2011 
   2010 
      Pension benefits
  Pension benefits
   Pension benefits 
       Non- 
Other 
  Non-
Other 
 Non- 
Other(in millions) 
 Qualified 
qualified 
benefits 
 Qualified 
qualified
benefits 
 Qualified
qualified 
benefits
Service cost 
$  3  
 -   11  
  6  
 1 
 13  
  5 
 -  
 13 
Interest cost 
  514 
  32  
 60  
  520  
 34 
 71  
  554 
 37  
 78 
Expected return on plan assets 
  (652)
  -   (36) 
  (759) 
 - 
 (41) 
  (717)
 -  
 (29)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 
  131 
  10  
 -    86  
 6 
 -  
  105 
 3  
 1 
Amortization of prior service credit 
  -   -   (2) 
  -  
 - 
 (3) 
  - 
 -  
 (4)
Settlement loss 
  2 
  5  
 -    4  
 3 
 -  
  - 
 -  
 - 
Curtailment loss (gain) 
  -   -   (3) 
  -  
 - 
 -  
  3 
 -  
 (4)
 Net periodic benefit cost 
  (2) 
 47  
 30  
  (143) 
 44 
 40  
  (50)
 40  
 55 
Other changes in plan assets 
             and benefit obligations 
             recognized in other 
             comprehensive income: 
           Net actuarial loss (gain)  
  758 
  62  
 (42) 
  1,120  
 33 
 (74) 
  (59)
 46  
 (9)
Amortization of net actuarial loss 
  (131)
  (10) 
 -    (86) 
 (6)
 -  
  (105)
 (3) 
 (1)
Prior service cost  
  (2)
  -   -    -  
 - 
 -  
  2 
 -  
 - 
Amortization of prior service credit 
  -   -   2  
  -  
 - 
 3  
  - 
 -  
 4 
Settlement 
  (1)
  (5) 
 -    (4) 
 (3)
 -  
  - 
 -  
 - 
Curtailment 
  -   -   -    (3) 
 - 
 -  
  (3)
 -  
 4 
Translation adjustments  
  -   -   -    (1) 
 - 
 -  
  - 
 -  
 - 
Total recognized in other 
             comprehensive income 
  624  
 47  
 (40) 
  1,026  
 24 
 (71) 
  (165)
 43  
 (2)
Total recognized in net periodic 
             benefit cost and other 
             comprehensive income 
$  622  
 94  
 (10) 
  883  
 68 
 (31) 
  (215)
 83  
 53 
227Note 20:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued) 
    Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI (pre tax) consist of:  
      December 31,
       2012  
  2011 
      Pension benefits
  Pension benefits
        Non- 
Other 
  Non-
Other 
(in millions) 
 Qualified 
qualified 
benefits 
Qualified 
qualified
benefits 
Net actuarial loss 
$  3,323  
 184  
 19  
  2,699 
  137 
 61  
Net prior service credit 
  (2) 
 -   (25) 
  - 
  - 
 (27) 
Net transition obligation 
  -   -   1  
  - 
  - 
 1  
 Total 
$  3,321  
 184  
 (5) 
 2,699 
  137 
 35  
            The net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension plans 
and other post retirement plans that will be amortized from 

accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2013 is 

$182 million. The net prior service credit for the defined benefit 

pension plans and other post retirement plans that will be 

amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost 

in 2013 is $2 million. 
 Plan Assumptions 
For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the weighted-

average discount rate used to estimate the projected benefit 

obligation for pension benefits (qualified and nonqualified) was 

4.00% and 5.00%, respectively, and for other postretirement 

benefits was 3.75% and 4.75%, respectively. For additional 
information on our pension accounting assumptions, see Note 1. 
 The weighted-average assumptions used to dete
rmine the net periodic benefit cost were:
                  December 31, 
    2012 
   2011 
  2010  
   Pension
  Other
  Pension 
 Other 
Pension 
Other 
   benefits 
(1) 
 benefits
  benefits (1) 
 benefits 
benefits (1) 
benefits 
Discount rate 
 5.00 
 %  4.75  
  5.25  
  5.25  
  5.75  
  5.75  
Expected return on plan assets 
 7.50 
   6.00  
  8.25  
  6.00  
  8.25  
  8.25  
                            (1) Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits. 
  To account for postretirement health care plans we use 
health care cost tren
d rates to recognize th
e effect of expected 
changes in future health care 
costs due to medical inflation, 
utilization changes, new techn
ology, regulatory requirements 
and Medicare cost shifting. In
 determining the end of year 
benefit obligation we assume a range of average annual increases 

of approximately 7.00% and 8.75%
, dependent on plan type, for 
health care costs in 2013. Thes
e rates are assumed to trend down 
0.25% per year until the trend rate reaches an ultimate rate of 
5.00% in 2020 through 2028, depe
ndent on plan type. The 2012 
periodic benefit cost was determined using initial annual trend 

rates of 7.75%. These rates were 
assumed to decrease 0.25% per 
year until they reached ultimate rates of 5.00% in 2023. 

Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage 

point in each year woul
d increase the benefit obligation as of 
December 31, 2012, by $58 million and the total of the interest 

cost and service cost components 
of the net periodic benefit cost 
for 2012 by $3 million. Decreasing the assumed health care 

trend by one percentage point in
 each year would decrease the 
benefit obligation as of December 31, 2012, by $52 million and 

the total of the interest cost and service cost components of the 

net periodic benefit cost for 2012 by $2 million. 
 
 Investment Strategy and Asset Allocation 
We seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a 
prudent level of risk given the benefit obligations of the pension 

plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy is 

designed to provide our Cash Balance Plan with a balance of 

long-term growth opportunities and short-term benefit 

strategies while ensuring that
 risk is mitigated through 
diversification across numerous asset classes and various 

investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for our Cash 

Balance Plan at a target mix range of 35-55% equities, 35-55% 
fixed income, and approximately 10% in real estate, venture 

capital, private equity and other investments. The Employee 

Benefit Review Committee (EBRC), which includes several 

members of senior
 management, formally reviews the 
investment risk and performance 
of our Cash Balance Plan on a 
quarterly basis. Annual Plan liability analysis and periodic 

asset/liability evaluations are also conducted. 

 Other benefit plan assets include (1) assets held in a 401(h) 

trust, which are invested with a 
target mix of 40-60% for both 
equities and fixed income, and (2) assets held in the Retiree 

Medical Plan Voluntary Employ
ees' Beneficiary Association 
(VEBA) trust, which are invested with a general target asset mix 

of 20-40% equities and 60-80% fixed income. In addition, the 

strategy for the VEBA trust assets 
considers the effect of income 
228    taxes by utilizing a combination of variable annuity and low 
turnover investment strategies. 
Members of the EBRC formally 
review the investment risk and performance of these assets on a 

quarterly basis. 
 Projected Benefit Payments 
Future benefits that we expect
 to pay under the pension and 
other benefit plans are presented in the following table. Other 

benefits payments are expected 
to be reduced by prescription 
drug subsidies from the federal 
government provided by the 
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization 

Act of 2003. 
    Pension benefits 
 Other benefits 
   Non- 
 Future
Subsidy
(in millions) 
Qualified
qualified 
 benefits
receipts
Year ended 
   December 31, 
    2013 $  838 
 74  
  98 
 13 
2014    813 
 69  
  100 
 14 
2015    789 
 64  
  103 
 11 
2016    785 
 64  
  105 
 11 
2017    782 
 59  
  106 
 11 
2018-2022 
  3,454 
 274  
  511 
 53 
 229Note 20:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued) 
   Fair Value of Plan Assets 
The following table presents the balances of pension plan assets 
and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value. See Note 17 

for fair value hierarchy level definitions. 
                        Carrying value at year end 
      Pension plan assets 
 Other benefits plan assets 
(in millions) 
 Level 1 
Level 2
Level 3 
 Total
 Level 1
Level 2 
Level 3
Total 
December 31, 2012
        Cash and cash equivalents 
$  -   312 
 -    312 
  164 
 23  
 -  187  
Long duration fixed income 
(1)
   545  
 3,124 
 1  
  3,670 
  -  -   -  -  Intermediate (core) fixed income 
(2)
   71  
 355 
 -    426 
  65 
 116  
 -  181  
High-yield fixed income 
  5  
 367 
 -    372 
  -  -   -  -  International fixed income 
  251  
 112 
 -    363 
  -  -   -  -  Domestic large-cap stocks 
(3)
   854  
 499 
 -    1,353 
  -  102  
 -  102  
Domestic mid-cap stocks  
  283  
 158 
 -    441 
  -  41  
 -  41  
Domestic small-cap stocks 
(4)
   309  
 15 
 -    324 
  -  30  
 -  30  
International stocks 
(5)
   578  
 341 
 1  
  920 
  28 
 47  
 -  75  
Emerging market stocks 
  -   538 
 -    538 
  -  -   -  -  Real estate/timber 
(6)
   100  
 1 
 328  
  429 
  -  -   -  -  Multi-strategy hedge funds 
(7)
   -   187 
 71  
  258 
  -  -   -  -  Private equity 
  -   -  145  
  145 
  -  -   -  -  Other 
  -   31 
 48  
  79 
  1 
 -   22 
 23  
 Total plan investments 
$  2,996  
 6,040 
 594  
  9,630 
  258 
 359  
 22 
 639  
Payable upon return of securities loaned 
      (112)
     (3) 
Net receivables (payables) 
      21 
     -    Total plan assets 
    $  9,539 
     636  
December 31, 2011
        Cash and cash equivalents 
$  -  
 432 
 -  
  432 
  180 
 33  
 - 
 213  
Long duration fixed income (1) 
  376  
 2,229 
 1  
  2,606 
  13 
 74  
 - 
 87  
Intermediate (core) fixed income (2) 
  88  
 380 
 6  
  474 
  4 
 60  
 - 
 64  
High-yield fixed income 
  10  
 366 
 1  
  377 
  - 
 12  
 - 
 12  
International fixed income 
  147  
 184 
 -  
  331 
  5 
 6  
 - 
 11  
Domestic large-cap stocks (3) 
  1,163  
 600 
 2  
  1,765 
  39 
 31  
 - 
 70  
Domestic mid-cap stocks  
  364  
 183 
 -  
  547 
  12 
 21  
 - 
 33  
Domestic small-cap stocks (4) 
  281  
 10 
 -  
  291 
  9 
 17  
 - 
 26  
International stocks (5) 
  570  
 349 
 1  
  920 
  19 
 40  
 - 
 59  
Emerging market stocks 
  -  
 574 
 -  
  574 
  - 
 19  
 - 
 19  
Real estate/timber (6) 
  102  
 - 
 355  
  457 
  3 
 -  
 12 
 15  
Multi-strategy hedge funds (7) 
  -  
 - 
 251  
  251 
  - 
 -  
 8 
 8  
Private equity 
  -  
 - 
 129  
  129 
  - 
 -  
 4 
 4  
Other 
  -  
 29 
 46  
  75 
  1 
 1  
 23 
 25  
 Total plan investments 
$  3,101  
 5,336 
 792  
  9,229 
  285 
 314  
 47 
 646  
Payable upon return of securities loaned 
      (145)
     (5) 
Net receivables (payables) 
      (23)
     (1) 
  Total plan assets 
    $  9,061 
     640  
                (1) This category includes a diversified mix of assets which are being managed in accordance with a duration target of approxim
ately 10 years and an emphasis on corporate 
credit bonds combined with investments in U.S. Treasury securities and other U.S. agency and non-agency bonds.  
(2)  This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade bonds held in investment strategi
es benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. 
Aggregate Bond Index. Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds.   
(3) This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as well as style characteristi
cs of value, core and growth emphasized 
strategies. Assets in this category are currently diversified ac
ross eight unique investment strategies. For December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively, approximately 24% 
and 34% of the assets within this category are passively managed to popular mainstream market indexes including the Standard & 
Poor's 500 Index; excluding the 
allocation to the S&P 500 Index strategy, no single investment manager represents more than 2.5% of total plan assets. 
(4) This category consists of a highly diversified combination of four distinct investment management strategies with no single
 strategy representing more than 2% of total plan 
assets. Allocations in this category are primarily spread across actively managed approaches with distinct value and growth emp
hasized approaches in fairly equal 
proportions. 
(5) This category includes assets diversified across six unique investment strategies providing exposure to companies based pri
marily in developed market, non-U.S. countries 
with no single strategy representing more than 2.5% of total plan assets. 
(6) This category primarily includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as timber specific limited partners
hips; real estate holdings are diversified by 
geographic location and sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments). 
(7) This category consists of several investment strategies diversified across more than 30 hedge fund managers. Single manager
 allocation exposure is limited to 0.15% 
(15 basis points) of total plan assets. 
230      The changes in Level 3 pension plan and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value are summarized as follows: 
      Purchases, 
     Balance 
  sales 
Transfers 
Balance 
   beginning 
Gains (losses) 
and Into/(Out 
of) 
end of 
(in millions) 
 of year 
Realized 
Unrealized (1) 
settlements (net) 
Level 3 
year 
Year ended December 31, 2012
        Pension plan assets 
       Long duration fixed income 
$  1  
 -   -   -   -   1  
Intermediate (core) fixed income 
  6  
 -   -   -   (6) 
 -  High-yield fixed income 
  1  
 -   -   -   (1) 
 -  Domestic large-cap stocks 
  2  
 -   -   -   (2) 
 -  International stocks 
  1  
 -   -   1  
 (1) 
 1  
Real estate/timber 
  355  
 22  
 2  
 (51) 
 -   328  
Multi-strategy hedge funds 
  251  
 1  
 2  
 8  
 (191) 
 71  
Private equity 
  129  
 8  
 10  
 (2) 
 -   145  
Other 
  46  
 1  
 3  
 (2) 
 -   48  
  $  792  
 32  
 17  
 (46) 
 (201) 
 594  
Other benefits plan assets 
       Real estate/timber 
$  12  
 -   -   (12) 
 -   -  Multi-strategy hedge funds 
  8  
 -   -   (8) 
 -   -  Private equity 
  4  
 -   -   (4) 
 -   -  Other 
  23  
 -   -   (1) 
 -   22  
  $  47  
 -   -   (25) 
 -   22  
Year ended December 31, 2011
        Pension plan assets 
       Long duration fixed income 
$  -  
 -  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 1  
Intermediate (core) fixed income 
  10  
 -  
 1  
 (5) 
 -  
 6  
High-yield fixed income 
  1  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1  
Domestic large-cap stocks 
  4  
 -  
 (1) 
 (1) 
 -  
 2  
International stocks 
  6  
 -  
 (1) 
 (4) 
 -  
 1  
Real estate/timber 
  360  
 10  
 22  
 (37) 
 -  
 355  
Multi-strategy hedge funds 
  313  
 5  
 (3) 
 (64) 
 -  
 251  
Private equity 
  112  
 1  
 16  
 -  
 -  
 129  
Other 
  41  
 4  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 46  
  $  847  
 20  
 34  
 (109) 
 -  
 792  
Other benefits plan assets 
       Real estate/timber 
$  12  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 12  
Multi-strategy hedge funds 
  10  
 -  
 -  
 (2) 
 -  
 8  
Private equity 
  4  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4  
Other 
  22  
 -  
 -  
 1  
 -  
 23  
  $  48  
 -  
 -  
 (1) 
 -  
 47  
(1) All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end. 
VALUATION METHODOLOGIES
  Following is a description of the 
valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value.  
 Cash and Cash Equivalents
 – includes investments in collective 
investment funds valued at fair value based upon the quoted 

market values of the underlying net assets. The unit price is 

quoted on a private market that is not active; however, the unit 

price is based on underlying in
vestments traded on an active 
market. 

 
Long Duration, Intermediate (Core), High-Yield, and 

International Fixed Income – in
cludes investments traded on 
the secondary markets; prices are measured by using quoted 
market prices for similar securities, pricing models, and 

discounted cash flow analys
es using significant inputs 
observable in the market where available, or a combination of 
multiple valuation techniques. This group of assets also includes 

investments in registered invest
ment companies valued at the 
NAV of shares held at year end, highly liquid government 

securities such as U.S. Treasu
ries and collective investment 
funds described above.  

 
Domestic, International and Emerging Market Stocks – 
investments in exchange-traded eq
uity securities are valued at 
quoted market values. This group of assets also includes 

investments in registered invest
ment companies and collective 
investment funds described above. 

 
Real Estate and Timber – the fair 
value of real estate and timber 
is estimated based primarily on
 appraisals prepared by third-
231Note 20:  Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 
(continued) 
  party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual 
market price of the real estate
 can only be determined by 
negotiation between independen
t third parties in a sales 
transaction. This group of assets
 also includes investments in 
exchange-traded equity securities described above. 
 
Multi-Strategy Hedge Funds and Private Equity – the fair values 

of hedge funds are valued based on the proportionate share of 

the underlying net assets of the investment funds that comprise 

the fund, based on valuations
 supplied by the underlying 
investment funds. Investments in private equity funds are valued 

at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are 

estimates and the actual market
 price of the investments can 
only be determined by negoti
ation between independent third 
parties in a sales transaction. 
 Other – the fair values of miscellaneous investments are valued 

at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are 

estimates and the actual market
 price of the investments can 
only be determined by negoti
ation between independent third 
parties in a sales transaction. This group of assets also includes 

insurance contracts that are generally stated at cash surrender 

value.  
 The methods described above may produce a fair value 
calculation that may not be indica
tive of net realizable value or 
reflective of future fair values. While we believe our valuation 

methods are appropriate and consistent with other market 

participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions 

to determine the fair value of ce
rtain financial instruments could 
result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting 

date. 
 Defined Contribution Retirement Plans 
We sponsor a defined contribution
 retirement plan named the 
Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan). Under the 

401(k) Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may 

contribute up to 50% of their 
certified compensation, although 
there may be a lower limit fo
r certain highly compensated 
employees in order to maintain th
e qualified status of the 401(k) 
Plan. Eligible employees who complete one year of service are 

eligible for company matching cont
ributions, which are generally 
dollar for dollar up to 6% of an employee's eligible certified 

compensation. Effective January 1, 2010, previous and future 

matching contributions are 100% vested for active participants. 
In 2009, the 401(k) Plan was 
amended to permit us to make 
discretionary profit sharing cont
ributions. Based on 2012, 2011 
and 2010 earnings, we committed
 to make a contribution in 
shares of common stock to eligible employees’ 401(k) Plan 

accounts equaling 2% of cert
ified compensation for each 
respective year, which resulted in recognizing $318 million, $311 

million and $316 million of define
d contribution retirement plan 
expense recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Total 

defined contribution retirement
 plan expenses were $1,143 
million, $1,104 million and $1,092 million in 2012, 2011 and 

2010, respectively. 
 Other Expenses 
Expenses exceeding 1% of total 
interest income and noninterest 
income in any of th
e years presented that are not otherwise 
shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to 
Financial Statements were: 
   Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
 2011 
  2010  
Outside professional services 
$  2,729 
 2,692 
  2,370  
Contract services 
  1,011 
 1,407 
  1,642  
Foreclosed assets 
  1,061 
 1,354 
  1,537  
Operating losses  
  2,235 
 1,261 
  1,258  
Outside data processing 
  910 
 935 
  1,046  
Postage, stationery and supplies 
  799 
 942 
  944  
 232   Note 21:  Income Taxes 
 The components of inco
me tax expense were: 
       Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
  2012  
 2011 
 2010 
Current: 
     Federal 
$  9,141  
 3,352 
 1,425 
 State and local 
  1,198  
 468 
 548 
 Foreign 
  61  
 52 
 78 
  Total current 
  10,400  
 3,872 
 2,051 
Deferred: 
     Federal 
  (1,151) 
 3,088 
 4,060 
 State and local 
  (166) 
 471 
 211 
 Foreign 
  20  
 14 
 16 
  Total deferred 
  (1,297) 
 3,573 
 4,287 
    Total 
$  9,103  
 7,445 
 6,338 
 The tax effects of our temporary differences that gave rise to 
significant portions of our deferre
d tax assets and liabilities are 
presented in the following table. 
       December 31,
(in millions) 
    2012  
 2011 
Deferred tax assets
     Allowance for loan losses  
$  6,192  
 6,955 
 Deferred compensation 
     and employee benefits  
  4,701  
 4,115 
 Accrued expenses 
  1,692  
 1,598 
 PCI loans  
  2,692  
 3,851 
 Basis difference in investments  
  1,182  
 2,104 
 Net operating loss and tax 
     credit carry forwards  
  1,058  
 1,701 
 Other      1,868  
 402 
   Total deferred tax assets  
  19,385  
 20,726 
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance
   (579) 
 (918)
Deferred tax liabilities
     Mortgage servicing rights  
  (7,360) 
 (7,388)
 Leasing  
  (4,414) 
 (4,344)
 Mark to market, net  
  (2,401) 
 (4,027)
 Intangible assets  
  (2,157) 
 (2,608)
 Net unrealized gains on 
     securities available for sale  
  (4,135) 
 (2,619)
 Insurance reserves 
  (1,707) 
 (1,197)
 Other      (1,683) 
 (2,539)
   Total deferred tax liabilities  
  (23,857) 
 (24,722)
    Net deferred tax liability (1)
 $  (5,051) 
 (4,914)
(1)  Included in accrued ex
penses and other liabilities. 
           Deferred taxes related to net unrealized gains (losses) on 
securities available for sale, net unrealized gains (losses) on 

derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit 

plan adjustments are recorded in
 cumulative OCI (see Note 23). 
These associated adjustments decr
eased OCI by $1.4 billion in 
2012. 
 We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for 

2012 in the amount of $579 million predominantly attributable 

to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions 

where we believe it is more likely
 than not that these deferred tax 
assets will not be realized. In these jurisdictions, carry back 

limitations, lack of sources of 
taxable income, and tax planning 
strategy limitations contributed to our conclusion that the 

deferred tax assets would not be
 realizable. We have concluded 
that it is more likely than no
t that the remaining deferred tax 
assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources 

of taxable income in carry back periods, and our ability to 

implement tax planning strategies. 

 At December 31, 2012, we ha
d net operating loss and credit 
carry forwards with related deferred tax assets of $900 million 

and $158 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not 

utilized, they will expire in 
varying amounts through 2032. 
 At December 31, 2012, we had 
undistributed foreign earnings 
of $1.3 billion related to foreign subsidiaries. We intend to 

reinvest these earnings indefi
nitely outside the U.S. and 
accordingly have not provided $367 million of income tax 

liability on these earnings. 
The following table reconciles 
the statutory federal income 
tax expense and rate to the effective income tax expense and 

rate. Our effective tax rate is calc
ulated by dividing income tax 
expense by income before income tax expense less the net 

income from noncontrolling interests. 
233Note 21:  Income Taxes 
(continued) 
        December 31, 
        2012 
    2011  
    2010  
 (in millions) 
  Amount
Rate 
   Amount 
Rate 
   Amount 
Rate 
 Statutory federal income tax expense and rate  
$  9,800 
 35.0  
%  $  8,160  
 35.0  
%  $  6,545  
 35.0  
% Change in tax rate resulting from: 
               State and local taxes on income, net of 
                federal income tax benefit 
  856 
 3.1  
    730  
 3.1  
    586  
 3.1  
  Tax-exempt interest  
  (414)
 (1.5) 
    (334) 
 (1.4) 
    (283) 
 (1.5) 
  Excludable dividends  
  (132)
 (0.5) 
    (247) 
 (1.1) 
    (258) 
 (1.3) 
  Tax credits  
  (815)
 (2.9) 
    (735) 
 (3.2) 
    (577) 
 (3.1) 
  Life insurance  
  (524)
 (1.9) 
    (222) 
 (1.0) 
    (223) 
 (1.2) 
  Leveraged lease tax expense 
  347 
 1.2  
    272  
 1.2  
    461  
 2.5  
  Other 
   (15)
 -      (179) 
 (0.7) 
    87  
 0.4  
   Effective income tax expense and rate 
$  9,103 
 32.5  
%  $  7,445  
 31.9  
%  $  6,338  
 33.9  
%                     The lower effective tax rates for 2012 and 2011, as compared 
to 2010, were primarily due to the realization, for tax purposes, 
of tax benefits on previously written down investments. For 2012 

this includes a tax benefit resulting from the surrender of 

previously written-do
wn Wachovia life insurance investments.  
In addition, the 2011 effective tax rate was lower than the 2010 

effective tax rate due to a decrease in tax expense associated with 

leveraged leases, as well as tax 
benefits related to charitable 
donations of appreciated securities. 

 The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows:  
       Year ended 
      December 31, 
(in millions) 
   2012  
 2011 
 Balance at beginning of year  
$  5,005  
 5,500 
 Additions: 
     For tax positions related to the current year 
  877  
 279 
  For tax positions related to prior years 
  491  
 255 
 Reductions: 
     For tax positions related to prior years 
  (114) 
 (358)
  Lapse of statute of limitations 
  (23) 
 (75)
  Settlements with tax authorities 
  (167) 
 (596)
    Balance at end of year 
$  6,069  
 5,005 
   Of the $6.1 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at 
December 31, 2012, approximately $4.3 billion would, if 

recognized, affect the effective tax rate. The remaining 

$1.8 billion of unrecognized tax benefits relates to income tax 

positions on temporary differences. 

 We recognize interest and penalties as a component of 
income tax expense. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we have 
accrued approximately $1.0 billion and $871 million for the 

payment of interest and penalties,
 respectively. We recognized in 
income tax expense in 2012 and 
2011, interest and penalties of 
$92 million and $32 million, respectively. 

  We are subject to U.S. federal in
come tax as we
ll as income 
tax in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely 

examined by tax authorities in 
these various jurisdictions. The 
IRS is currently examining the 2007 through 2010 consolidated 

federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo & Company and its 

subsidiaries. In addition, we are currently subject to examination 

by various state, local and foreign taxing authorities. With few 

exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to 

federal, state, local and foreign income tax examinations for 

taxable years prior to 2007. Wachovia Corporation and its 

subsidiaries are no longer subject to federal examination; with 

few exceptions, they remain subj
ect to state, local and foreign 
income tax examinations for 2008. 

 We are also litigating or appealing various issues related to 

our prior IRS examinations for the periods 1999 and 2003 

through 2006. On December 1, 2011, we filed a Notice of Appeal 

to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit relating to our 

lease restructuring transaction and that case is still pending. For 

Wachovia’s 2003 through 2008
 tax years, we are appealing 
various issues related to their IRS examinations. We have paid 

the IRS the contested income tax 
associated with these issues 
and refund claims have been filed for the respective years. It is 

possible that one or more of these examinations, appeals or 

litigation may be resolved within the next twelve months 

resulting in a decrease of up 
to $1.5 billion to our gross 
unrecognized tax benefits. 
234   Note 22:  Earnings Per Common Share 
 The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted 
earnings per common share and reconciles the numerator and 

denominator of both 
earnings per common share calculations. 
See Note 1 for discussion of private share repurchases and the 
Consolidated Statement of Change
s in Equity and Note 19 for 
information about stock and options activity and terms and 

conditions of warrants. 
        Year ended December 31, 
(in millions, except per share amounts) 
 2012  
2011  2010 Wells Fargo net income 
$  18,897  
 15,869 
  12,362 
Less: 
Preferred stock dividends and other (1) 
  898  
 844 
  730 
Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock (numerator) 
$  17,999  
 15,025 
  11,632 
Earnings per common share
     Average common shares outstanding (denominator) 
  5,287.6  
 5,278.1 
  5,226.8 
Per share 
$  3.40  
 2.85 
  2.23 
Diluted earnings per common share
     Average common shares outstanding 
  5,287.6  
 5,278.1 
  5,226.8 
Add:    
Stock Options 
  27.5  
 24.2 
  28.3 
  Restricted share rights 
  36.4  
 21.1 
  8.0 
Diluted average common shares outstanding (denominator) 
  5,351.5  
 5,323.4 
  5,263.1 
Per share  
$  3.36  
 2.82 
  2.21 
(1) Includes series J, K, L, I and N preferred stock dividends of $892 million, $844 million and $737 million for the years ended 2
012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
   The following table presents the outstanding options and 
warrants to purchase shares of common stock that were anti-

dilutive (the exercise price was higher than the weighted-average 

market price), and therefore not included in the calculation of 

diluted earnings per common share. 
  Weighted-average shares
 Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
2012 
2011  2010  Options 
 56.4 
 198.8 
  212.1  
Warrants 
 39.2 
 39.4 
  66.9  
     235   Note 23:  Other Comprehensive Income 
 The components of other comprehensive inco
me (OCI) and the related tax effects were: 
         Year ended December 31, 
        2012 
  2011 
  2010  
       Before
 Tax  Net of
 Before
Tax 
Net of 
Before
Tax 
Net of 
(in millions) 
 tax
 effect 
 tax
 taxeffect 
tax 
taxeffect 
tax 
Foreign currency translation adjustments: 
          Net unrealized gains (losses)  
           arising during the period 
$  (6) 
 2  
  (4)
  (37)
 13  
 (24) 
 83 
 (26) 
 57  
 Reclassification of net gains  
           to net income  
  (10)
  4  
  (6)
  - 
 -  
 -  
 - 
 -  
 -  
Net unrealized gains (losses)  
              arising during the period 
  (16) 
 6  
  (10)
  (37)
 13  
 (24) 
 83 
 (26) 
 57  
Securities available for sale: 
              Net unrealized gains (losses) 
               arising during the period 
  5,143 
  (1,921) 
  3,222 
  (588)
 359  
 (229) 
 2,624 
 (1,134) 
 1,490  
 Reclassification of net (gains) losses 
               to net income  
  (271)
  102  
  (169)
  (696)
 262  
 (434) 
 77 
 (29) 
 48  
Net unrealized gains (losses) 
              arising during the period 
  4,872 
  (1,819) 
  3,053 
  (1,284)
 621  
 (663) 
  2,701 
 (1,163) 
 1,538  
Derivatives and hedging activities: 
              Net unrealized gains arising  
               during the period 
  52 
  (12) 
  40 
  190 
 (85) 
 105  
 750 
 (282) 
 468  
 Reclassification of net gains on cash flow 
               hedges to net income 
  (388)
  147  
  (241)
  (571)
 217  
 (354) 
 (613)
 234  
 (379) 
Net unrealized gains (losses) 
              arising during the period 
  (336)
  135  
  (201)
  (381)
 132  
 (249) 
  137 
 (48) 
 89  
Defined benefit plans adjustments: 
              Net actuarial gains (losses) arising  
               during the period 
  (775)
  290  
  (485)
  (1,079)
 411  
 (668) 
  20 
 (9) 
 11  
 Amortization of net actuarial loss and prior 
               service cost to net income 
  144 
  (54) 
  90 
  99 
 (38) 
 61  
  104 
 (45) 
 59  
Net unrealized gains (losses)  
               arising during the period 
  (631)
  236  
  (395)
  (980)
 373  
 (607) 
  124 
 (54) 
 70  
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
$  3,889  
 (1,442) 
  2,447 
  (2,682)
 1,139  
 (1,543) 
  3,045 
 (1,291) 
 1,754  
Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) from  
              noncontrolling interests, net of tax 
     4 
    (12) 
    25  
  Wells Fargo other comprehensive 
                income (loss), net of tax 
   $  2,443 
    (1,531) 
    1,729  
 Cumulative OCI balances were: 
             Cumulative
     Foreign 
   Derivatives
  Defined 
 other
     currency 
 Securities 
 and  benefit 
 compre-
     translation 
 available 
 hedging
  plans 
 hensive
 (in millions) 
 adjustments 
 for sale 
 activities 
adjustments
  income 
Balance, December 31, 2009 
$  67  
  3,541  
  650  
  (1,249) 
  3,009  
 Net change 
  57  
  1,538  
  89  
  70  
  1,754  
 Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) 
            from noncontrolling interests 
  12  
  13  
  -  
  -  
  25  
Balance, December 31, 2010 
  112  
  5,066  
  739  
  (1,179) 
  4,738  
 Net change 
  (24) 
  (663) 
  (249) 
  (607) 
  (1,543) 
 Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) 
            from noncontrolling interests 
  (2) 
  (10) 
  -  
  -  
  (12) 
Balance, December 31, 2011 
  90  
  4,413  
  490  
  (1,786) 
  3,207  
 Net change
   (10)
   3,053  
  (201) 
  (395) 
  2,447  
 Less: Other comprehensive income (loss)
             from noncontrolling interests 
  -    4  
  -    -    4  
Balance, December 31, 2012 
$  80  
  7,462  
  289  
  (2,181) 
  5,650  
236   Note 24:  Operating Segments 
 We have three operating segments for management reporting: 
Community Banking; Wholesa
le Banking; and Wealth, 
Brokerage and Retirement. The results for these operating 

segments are based on our manage
ment accounting process, for 
which there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance 
equivalent to GAAP for financial accounting. The management 
accounting process measures th
e performance of the operating 
segments based on our manage
ment structure and is not 
necessarily comparable with similar information for other 

financial services companies. We define our operating segments 

by product type and customer segment. If the management 

structure and/or the allocation process changes, allocations, 

transfers and assignments may change. In first quarter 2011, we 

realigned a private equity business into Wholesale Banking from 

Community Banking. In first quart
er 2012, we modified internal 
funds transfer rates and the allocation of funding. The prior 

periods have been revised to reflect these changes.  

 
Community Banking
 offers a complete 
line of diversified 
financial products and servic
es to consumers and small 
businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in 

which the owner generally is the financial decision maker. 

Community Banking also offers
 investment management and 
other services to retail customers and securities brokerage 

through affiliates. These products and services include the 

Wells Fargo Advantage Funds
SM, a family of mutual funds. Loan 
products include lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines 

and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education loans, 

origination and purchase of residential mortgage loans and 

servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit 
products and financial services available to small businesses and 
their owners include equipment leases, real estate and other 

commercial financing, Small Busi
ness Administration financing, 
venture capital financing, cash management, payroll services, 

retirement plans, Health Saving
s Accounts, credit cards, and 
merchant payment processing. Co
mmunity Banking also offers 
private label financing solutions for retail merchants across the 

United States and purchases retail installment contracts from 

auto dealers in the United States
 and Puerto Rico. Consumer and 
business deposit products include checking accounts, savings 

deposits, market rate accounts, In
dividual Retirement Accounts, 
time deposits, global re
mittance and debit cards. 
 Community Banking serves cu
stomers through a complete 
range of channels, including trad
itional banking stores, in-store 
banking centers, business centers, ATMs, Online and Mobile 

Banking, and Wells Fargo Customer Connection,
 a 24-hours a 
day, seven days a week telephone service. 
Wholesale Banking
 provides financial solutions to businesses 
across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of 

$20 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale 

Banking provides a complete li
ne of commercial, corporate, 
capital markets, cash management and real estate banking 
products and services. These include traditional commercial 

loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, 

equipment leasing, international trade facilities, trade financing, 

collection services, foreign exchange services, treasury 

management, investment management, institutional fixed-

income sales, interest rate, 
commodity and equity risk 
management, online/electroni
c products such as the 
Commercial Electronic Office
® (CEO®) portal, insurance, 
corporate trust fiduciary and ag
ency services, and investment 
banking services. Wholesale 
Banking manages customer 
investments through institutiona
l separate accounts and mutual 
funds, including the Wells Fargo Advantage Funds and Wells 

Capital Management. Wholesale Ba
nking also supports the CRE 
market with products and services
 such as construction loans for 
commercial and residential deve
lopment, land acquisition and 
development loans, secured an
d unsecured lines of credit, 
interim financing arrangements for completed structures, 

rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of 

credit, permanent loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing 

and real estate and mortgage brokerage services. 
 Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
 provides a full range of 
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach 

to meet each client's needs.
 Wealth Management provides 
affluent and high net worth clie
nts with a complete range of 
wealth management solutions, including financial planning, 

private banking, credit, investment mana
gement and trust. 
Abbot Downing, a Wells Fargo business, provides 

comprehensive wealth management
 services to ultra high net 
worth
 families and individuals as we
ll as their endowments and 
foundations.
 Brokerage serves customers' advisory, brokerage 
and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service 
brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement is a national 

leader in providing institutiona
l retirement and trust services 
(including 401(k) and pensio
n plan record keeping) for 
businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and 

reinsurance services for the life insurance industry.  
 Other
 includes corporate items (such as integration expenses 
related to the Wachovia merger) not specific to a business 

segment and elimination of certain items that are included in 

more than one business segment. 
237Note 24:  Operating Segments 
(continued) 
         Wealth,
          Brokerage 
       Community 
Wholesale 
and  Consolidated 
(income/expense in millions, average balances in billions) 
  Banking 
Banking
Retirement 
Other (1) 
Company 
2012 
       Net interest income 
(2)
  $  29,045  
 12,648  
 2,768  
 (1,231) 
 43,230  
Provision for credit losses 
  6,835  
 286  
 125  
 (29) 
 7,217  
Noninterest income 
  24,360  
 11,444  
 9,392  
 (2,340) 
 42,856  
Noninterest expense 
  30,840  
 12,082  
 9,893  
 (2,417) 
 50,398  
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
  15,730  
 11,724  
 2,142  
 (1,125) 
 28,471  
Income tax expense (benefit) 
  4,774  
 3,943  
 814  
 (428) 
 9,103  
Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests 
  10,956  
 7,781  
 1,328  
 (697) 
 19,368  
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
  464  
 7  
 -   -   471  
Net income (loss) 
(3)
  $  10,492  
 7,774  
 1,328  
 (697) 
 18,897  
2011        Net interest income (2) 
$  29,657  
 11,616  
 2,844  
 (1,354) 
 42,763  
Provision (reversal of provision) for credit losses 
  7,976 
  (110) 
 170  
 (137) 
 7,899  
Noninterest income 
  21,124 
  9,952  
 9,333  
 (2,224) 
 38,185  
Noninterest expense 
  29,252 
  11,177  
 9,934  
 (970) 
 49,393  
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
  13,553 
  10,501  
 2,073  
 (2,471) 
 23,656  
Income tax expense (benefit) 
  4,104 
  3,495  
 785  
 (939) 
 7,445  
Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests 
  9,449 
  7,006  
 1,288  
 (1,532) 
 16,211  
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
  316 
  19  
 7  
 -  
 342  
Net income (loss) (3) 
$  9,133  
 6,987  
 1,281  
 (1,532) 
 15,869  
2010        Net interest income (2) 
$  31,885  
 11,474  
 2,707  
 (1,309) 
 44,757  
Provision for credit losses 
  13,807 
  1,920  
 334  
 (308) 
 15,753  
Noninterest income 
  22,604 
  10,951  
 9,023  
 (2,125) 
 40,453  
Noninterest expense 
  30,071 
  11,269  
 9,768  
 (652) 
 50,456  
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 
  10,611 
  9,236  
 1,628  
 (2,474) 
 19,001  
Income tax expense (benefit) 
  3,347 
  3,315  
 616  
 (940) 
 6,338  
Net income (loss) before noncontrolling interests 
  7,264 
  5,921  
 1,012  
 (1,534) 
 12,663  
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
  274 
  20  
 7  
 -  
 301  
Net income (loss) (3) 
$  6,990  
 5,901  
 1,005  
 (1,534) 
 12,362  
2012 
       Average loans 
$  487.1  
 273.8  
 42.7  
 (28.4) 
 775.2  
Average assets 
  761.1  
 481.7  
 164.6  
 (65.8) 
 1,341.6  
Average core deposits 
  591.2  
 227.0  
 137.5  
 (61.8) 
 893.9  
          2011        Average loans 
$  496.3  
 249.1  
 43.0  
 (31.3) 
 757.1  
Average assets 
  752.3 
  428.1  
 155.2  
 (65.3) 
 1,270.3  
Average core deposits 
  556.3 
  202.1  
 130.0  
 (61.7) 
 826.7  
 (1) Includes Wachovia integration expenses, through completion in the first quarter of 2012, and the elimination of items that are 
included in both Community Banking and 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement, largely representing services and products for wealth management customers provided in Commun
ity Banking stores. 
(2) Net interest income is the difference between interest earned 
on assets and the cost of liabilities to fund those assets. Inter
est earned includes actual interest earned on 
segment assets and, if the segment has excess liabilities, intere
st credits for providing funding to other segments. The cost o
f liabilities includes interest expense on segment 
liabilities and, if the segment does not have enough liabilities 
to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of exce
ss liabilities from another segment. 
(3) Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement segments an
d Wells Fargo net income for the 
consolidated company. 
238   Note 25:  Parent-Only 
Financial Statements 
 The following tables present Parent-only condensed financial 
statements. 
 Parent-Only Statement of Income 
            Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011  
  2010  
Income
        Dividends from subsidiaries: 
       Bank 
$  11,767  
 11,546  
  12,896  
 Nonbank 
  1,150  
 140  
  21  
Interest income from subsidiaries 
  897  
 914  
  1,375  
Other interest income 
  222  
 242  
  304  
Other income 
  267  
 460  
  363  
  Total income 
  14,303  
 13,302  
  14,959  
Expense
       Interest Expense: 
       Indebtedness to nonbank subsidiaries 
  287  
  254  
  312  
 Short-term borrowings 
  1  
 1  
  1  
 Long-term debt 
  1,877  
 2,423  
  2,874  
 Other 
  23  
 8  
  2  
Noninterest expense 
  1,127  
 77  
  1,335  
  Total expense 
  3,315  
 2,763  
  4,524  
Income before income tax benefit and
       equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 
  10,988 
  10,539  
  10,435  
Income tax benefit 
  (903)
  (584) 
  (749) 
Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries  
  7,006 
  4,746  
  1,178  
Net income 
 $  18,897  
 15,869  
  12,362  
239Note 25:  Parent-Only Financial Statements 
(continued) 
  Parent-Only Statement of Comprehensive Income 
            Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012 
   2011  
  2010  
Net income  
$  18,897  
  15,869 
   12,362  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: 
       Securities available for sale 
  61  
  (50)
   (30) 
 Derivatives and hedging activities 
  31  
  (1)
   (88) 
 Defined benefit plans adjustment 
  (379) 
  (650)
   114  
 Equity in other comprehensive income of subsidiaries 
  2,730  
  (830)
   1,733  
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
   2,443  
  (1,531)
   1,729  
Total comprehensive income
 $  21,340  
  14,338 
   14,091  
             Parent-Only Balance Sheet 
      December 31, 
(in millions) 
  2012  
  2011  
Assets
     Cash and cash equivalents due from: 
     Subsidiary banks 
$  35,697  
  19,312  
 Nonaffiliates 
  5  
  30  
Securities available for sale 
  7,268  
  7,427  
          Loans to subsidiaries: 
     Bank 
  -    3,885  
 Nonbank 
  41,068  
  46,987  
Investments in subsidiaries: 
     Bank 
  148,693  
  135,155  
 Nonbank 
  19,492  
  17,294  
Other assets 
  7,880  
  7,579  
   Total assets 
$  260,103  
  237,669  
Liabilities and equity
     Short-term borrowings 
$  1,592  
  759  
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
  8,332  
  7,052  
Long-term debt 
  76,233  
  77,613  
Indebtedness to nonbank subsidiaries 
  16,392  
  12,004  
  Total liabilities 
  102,549  
  97,428  
Stockholders' equity 
  157,554  
  140,241  
   Total liabilities and equity 
$  260,103  
  237,669  
          240    Parent-Only Statement of Cash Flows 
         Year ended December 31,
(in millions) 
  2012 
  2011  
  2010  
Cash flows from operating activities:
        Net cash provided by operating activities 
$  13,365  
  15,049  
  14,180  
Cash flows from investing activities:
       Securities available for sale: 
       Sales proceeds 
  6,171 
   11,459  
  2,441  
 Prepayments and maturities 
  30 
   -  
  -  
 Purchases 
  (5,845)
   (16,487) 
  (119) 
Loans: 
        Net repayments from (advances to) subsidiaries 
  9,191 
   1,318  
  (5,485) 
 Capital notes and term loans made to subsidiaries 
  (1,850)
   (1,340) 
  -  
 Principal collected on notes/loans made to subsidiaries 
  2,462 
   5,779  
  11,282  
Net decrease (increase) in investment in subsidiaries 
  (5,218)
   (610) 
  1,198  
Other, net  
  (2)
   230  
  15  
  Net cash provided by investing activities 
  4,939 
   349  
  9,332  
Cash flows from financing activities:
       Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings and  
       indebtedness to subsidiaries 
  5,456 
   (242) 
  1,860  
Long-term debt: 
       Proceeds from issuance 
  16,989 
   7,058  
  1,789  
 Repayment 
  (18,693)
   (31,198) 
  (23,281) 
Preferred stock: 
       Proceeds from issuance  
  1,377 
   2,501  
  -  
 Cash dividends paid  
  (892)
   (844) 
  (737) 
Common stock warrants repurchased 
  (1)
   (2) 
  (545) 
Common stock: 
       Proceeds from issuance  
  2,091 
   1,296  
  1,375  
 Repurchased 
  (3,918)
   (2,416) 
  (91) 
 Cash dividends paid  
  (4,565)
   (2,537) 
  (1,045) 
Excess tax benefits related to stock option payments 
  226 
   79  
  98  
Other, net  
  (14)
   -  
  -  
  Net cash used by financing activities 
  (1,944)
   (26,305) 
  (20,577) 
   Net change in cash and due from banks
   16,360 
   (10,907) 
  2,935  
Cash and due from banks at beginning of year 
  19,342 
   30,249  
  27,314  
Cash and due from banks at end of year
 $  35,702  
  19,342  
  30,249  
241   Note 26:  Regulatory and Ag
ency Capital Requirements 
 The Company and each of its su
bsidiary banks are subject to 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements promulgated by 

federal regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes 

capital requirements, including well capitalized standards, for 

the consolidated financial hold
ing company, and the OCC has 
similar requirements for the Company’s national banks, 
including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 

 We do not consolidate our wholly-owned trust (the Trust) 
formed solely to issue trust pr
eferred and preferred purchase 
securities (the Securities). Se
curities issued by the Trust 
includable in Tier 1 capi
tal were $4.8 billion at 
December 31, 2012. During 2012, we redeemed $2.7 billion of 

trust preferred securities. Under applicable regulatory capital 

guidelines issued by bank regula
tory agencies, upon notice of 
redemption, the redeemed trust preferred securities no longer 

qualify as Tier 1 Capital for the Company. This redemption is 
consistent with the Capital Plan
 the Company submitted to the 
Federal Reserve Board and the actions the Company previously 

announced on March 13, 2012.  

 Certain subsidiaries of the Company are approved 

seller/servicers, and are therefore required to maintain 

minimum levels of shareholders’ equity, as specified by various 

agencies, including the United 
States Department of Housing 
and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At 

December 31, 2012, each seller/servicer met these requirements. 
Certain broker-dealer subsidiaries of the Company are subject to 

SEC Rule 15c3-1 (the Net Capital 
Rule), which requ
ires that we maintain minimum levels of ne
t capital, as defined. At 
December 31, 2012, each of these subsidiaries met these 
requirements. 

 The following table presents regulatory capital information 

for Wells Fargo & Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  
      Wells Fargo & Company 
 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
 Well- 
 Minimum 
      December 31, 
 capitalized 
 capital 
 (in billions, except ratios) 
  2012  
 2011 
  2012 
   2011 
 ratios (1) 
 ratios (1) 
 Regulatory capital:
              Tier 1 
$  126.6  
  114.0 
  101.3 
   92.6 
    Total 
  157.6  
  148.5 
  124.8 
   117.9 
                    Assets:
             Risk-weighted 
$  1,077.1  
  1,005.6 
  1,002.0 
   923.2 
    Adjusted average (2) 
  1,336.4  
  1,262.6 
  1,195.9 
   1,115.4 
                    Capital ratios:
             Tier 1 capital (3) 
  11.75  
%  11.33 
  10.11 
   10.03 
  6.00  
  4.00  
 Total capital (3) 
  14.63  
  14.76 
  12.45 
   12.77 
  10.00  
 8.00  
 Tier 1 leverage (2) 
  9.47  
  9.03 
  8.47 
   8.30 
  5.00  
 4.00  
                  (1) As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. 
(2) The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding goodwill and certain other i
tems. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 
3% for banking organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk, excellent asset qua
lity, high liquidity, good earnings, effective 
management and monitoring of market risk and, in general, are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations. 
(3) Effective September 30, 2012, we refined our determination of the risk weighting of certain unused lending commitments that pro
vide for the ability to issue standby letters 
of credit and commitments to issue standby letters of credit under syndication arrangements where we have an obligation to issu
e in a lead agent or similar capacity beyond 
our contractual participation level. 
242   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders  
Wells Fargo & Company: 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidat
ed balance sheet of Wells Fargo & Company 
and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the relate
d consolidated statements of income, compre
hensive income, changes in equity, and cas
h flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012. These consolidated financial statements are the 
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is
 to express an opinion on these consolidated financial stateme
nts 
based on our audits. 

 
We conducted our audits in accord
ance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board
 (United States). Thos
e standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are 
free of 
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the fin
ancial 
statements. An audit also includes assessing 
the accounting principles used and signif
icant estimates made by management, as we
ll as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believ
e that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
  
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
 position of 
the Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of 
its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the
 three-
year period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity 
with U.S. generally accepte
d accounting principles. 
 
We also have audited, in accord
ance with the standards of the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board
 (United States), the 
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
 December 31, 2012, based on
 criteria established in 
Internal Control – 
Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponso
ring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report 
dated February 27, 2013, expresse
d an unqualified opinion on the 
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial
 reporting. 

 
 
 
 
 
San Francisco, California 
February 27, 2013 
243   Quarterly Financial Data
 Condensed Consolidated Statement of
 Income - Quarterly (Unaudited)
         2012  
  2011  
       Quarter ended 
 Quarter ended 
(in millions, except per share amounts) 
 Dec. 31 
Sept. 30
June 30 
Mar. 31
 Dec. 31
Sept. 30
June 30
Mar. 31 
Interest income
 $  11,857  
 11,925 
 12,354  
 12,255 
  12,378 
 12,178 
 12,384 
 12,472  
Interest expense
   1,214  
 1,263 
 1,317  
 1,367 
  1,486 
 1,636 
 1,706 
 1,821  
Net interest income
   10,643  
 10,662 
 11,037  
 10,888 
  10,892 
 10,542 
 10,678 
 10,651  
Provision for credit losses 
  1,831  
 1,591 
 1,800  
 1,995 
  2,040 
 1,811 
 1,838 
 2,210  
Net interest income after provision for credit 
losses 
  8,812  
 9,071 
 9,237  
 8,893 
  8,852 
 8,731 
 8,840 
 8,441  
Noninterest income
           Service charges on deposit accounts 
  1,250  
 1,210 
 1,139  
 1,084 
  1,091 
 1,103 
 1,074 
 1,012  
Trust and investment fees 
  3,199  
 2,954 
 2,898  
 2,839 
  2,658 
 2,786 
 2,944 
 2,916  
Card fees 
  736  
 744 
 704  
 654 
  680 
 1,013 
 1,003 
 957  
Other fees 
  1,193  
 1,097 
 1,134  
 1,095 
  1,096 
 1,085 
 1,023 
 989  
Mortgage banking 
  3,068  
 2,807 
 2,893  
 2,870 
  2,364 
 1,833 
 1,619 
 2,016  
Insurance 
  395  
 414 
 522  
 519 
  466 
 423 
 568 
 503  
Net gains from trading activities 
  275  
 529 
 263  
 640 
  430 
 (442)
 414 
 612  
Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for 
sale 
  (63)
  3 
 (61) 
 (7)
  48 
 300 
 (128)
 (166) 
Net gains from equity investments 
  715  
 164 
 242  
 364 
  61 
 344 
 724 
 353  
Operating leases 
  170  
 218 
 120  
 59 
  60 
 284 
 103 
 77  
Other 
  367  
 411 
 398  
 631 
  759 
 357 
 364 
 409  
 Total noninterest income 
  11,305  
 10,551 
 10,252  
 10,748 
  9,713 
 9,086 
 9,708 
 9,678  
Noninterest expense
           Salaries 
  3,735  
 3,648 
 3,705  
 3,601 
  3,706 
 3,718 
 3,584 
 3,454  
Commission and incentive compensation 
  2,365  
 2,368 
 2,354  
 2,417 
  2,251 
 2,088 
 2,171 
 2,347  
Employee benefits 
  891  
 1,063 
 1,049  
 1,608 
  1,012 
 780 
 1,164 
 1,392  
Equipment 
  542  
 510 
 459  
 557 
  607 
 516 
 528 
 632  
Net occupancy 
  728  
 727 
 698  
 704 
  759 
 751 
 749 
 752  
Core deposit and other intangibles 
  418  
 419 
 418  
 419 
  467 
 466 
 464 
 483  
FDIC and other deposit assessments 
  307  
 359 
 333  
 357 
  314 
 332 
 315 
 305  
Other 
  3,910  
 3,018 
 3,381  
 3,330 
  3,392 
 3,026 
 3,500 
 3,368  
 Total noninterest expense 
  12,896  
 12,112 
 12,397  
 12,993 
  12,508 
 11,677 
 12,475 
 12,733  
Income before income tax expense
   7,221  
 7,510 
 7,092  
 6,648 
  6,057 
 6,140 
 6,073 
 5,386  
Income tax expense 
  1,924  
 2,480 
 2,371  
 2,328 
  1,874 
 1,998 
 2,001 
 1,572  
Net income before
            noncontrolling interests 
  5,297  
 5,030 
 4,721  
 4,320 
  4,183 
 4,142 
 4,072 
 3,814  
Less: Net income from noncontrolling interests 
  207 
  93 
 99  
 72 
  76 
 87 
 124 
 55  
Wells Fargo net income 
 $  5,090  
 4,937 
 4,622  
 4,248 
  4,107 
 4,055 
 3,948 
 3,759  
Less: Preferred stock dividends and accretion and 
other 
  233  
 220 
 219  
 226 
  219 
 216 
 220 
 189  
Wells Fargo net income 
            applicable to common stock
 $  4,857  
 4,717 
 4,403  
 4,022 
  3,888 
 3,839 
 3,728 
 3,570  
Per share information
           Earnings per common share 
$  0.92  
 0.89 
 0.83  
 0.76 
  0.74 
 0.73 
 0.70 
 0.68  
Diluted earnings per common share 
  0.91  
 0.88 
 0.82  
 0.75 
  0.73 
 0.72 
 0.70 
 0.67  
Dividends declared per common share 
  0.22  
 0.22 
 0.22  
 0.22 
  0.12 
 0.12 
 0.12 
 0.12  
Average common shares outstanding 
  5,272.4  
 5,288.1 
 5,306.9  
 5,282.6 
  5,271.9 
 5,275.5 
 5,286.5 
 5,278.8  
Diluted average common shares outstanding 
  5,338.7  
 5,355.6 
 5,369.9  
 5,337.8 
  5,317.6 
 5,319.2 
 5,331.7 
 5,333.1  
Market price per common share (1) 
           High 
 $  36.34  
 36.60 
 34.59  
 34.59 
  27.97 
 29.63 
 32.63 
 34.25  
 Low 
   31.25  
 32.62 
 29.80  
 27.94 
  22.61 
 22.58 
 25.26 
 29.82  
 Quarter-end 
   34.18  
 34.53 
 33.44  
 34.14 
  27.56 
 24.12 
 28.06 
 31.71  
                                (1) 
Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 
244    Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) - Quarterly
 (1) (2) - (Unaudited)
         Quarter ended December 31,
              2012  
     2011  
            Interest 
    Interest 
        Average 
Yields/ 
  income/ 
Average
 Yields/ 
  income/ 
(in millions) 
 balance 
rates 
  expense 
balance
 rates 
  expense 
Earning assets
             Federal funds sold, securities purchased under 
             resale agreements and other short-term investments 
$  117,047  
 0.41  
% $  121  
  67,968  
 0.52  
% $  89 
 Trading assets
   42,005  
 3.28  
   345  
  45,521  
 3.57  
   407 
 Securities available for sale (3):  
              Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 
  5,281  
 1.64  
   22  
  8,708  
 0.99  
   22 
  Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 
  36,391  
 4.64  
   422  
  28,015  
 4.80  
   336 
  Mortgage-backed securities: 
              Federal agencies 
  90,898  
 2.71  
   617  
  84,332  
 3.68  
   776 
   Residential and commercial 
  32,669  
 6.53  
   533  
  34,717  
 7.05  
   612 
    Total mortgage-backed securities 
  123,567  
 3.72  
   1,150  
  119,049  
 4.66  
   1,388 
  Other debt and equity securities 
  50,025  
 3.91  
   490  
  47,278  
 4.38  
   518 
     Total securities available for sale 
  215,264  
 3.87  
   2,084  
  203,050  
 4.46  
   2,264 
 Mortgages held for sale (4)
   47,241  
 3.50  
   413  
  44,842  
 4.07  
   456 
 Loans held for sale (4)
   135  
 9.03  
   3  
  1,118  
 5.84  
   16 
 Loans:
              Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial 
  179,493  
 3.85  
   1,736  
  166,920  
 4.08  
   1,713 
   Real estate mortgage 
  105,107  
 4.02  
   1,061  
  105,219  
 4.26  
   1,130 
   Real estate construction 
  17,502  
 4.97  
   218  
  19,624  
 4.61  
   228 
   Lease financing 
  12,461  
 6.43  
   201  
  12,893  
 7.41  
   239 
   Foreign 
  39,665  
 2.32  
   231  
  38,740  
 2.39  
   233 
    Total commercial 
  354,228  
 3.87  
   3,447  
  343,396  
 4.10  
   3,543 
  Consumer: 
              Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
  244,634  
 4.39  
   2,686  
  229,746  
 4.74  
   2,727 
   Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
  76,908  
 4.28  
   826  
  87,212  
 4.34  
   953 
   Credit card 
  23,839  
 12.43  
   745  
  21,933  
 12.96  
   711 
   Other revolving credit and installment 
  87,601  
 6.05  
   1,333  
  86,276  
 6.23  
   1,356 
    Total consumer 
  432,982  
 5.15  
   5,590  
  425,167  
 5.39  
   5,747 
     Total loans (4) 
  787,210  
 4.58  
   9,037  
  768,563  
 4.81  
   9,290 
 Other
   4,280  
 5.21  
   56  
  4,671  
 4.32  
   50 
      Total earning assets 
$  1,213,182  
 3.96  
% $  12,059  
  1,135,733  
 4.41  
% $  12,572 
 Funding sources 
            Deposits:
              Interest-bearing checking 
$  30,858  
 0.06  
% $  5  
  35,285  
 0.06  
% $  6 
  Market rate and other savings 
  518,593  
 0.10  
   135  
  485,127  
 0.14  
   175 
  Savings certificates 
  56,743  
 1.27  
   181  
  64,868  
 1.43  
   233 
  Other time deposits 
  13,612  
 1.51  
   51  
  12,868  
 1.85  
   60 
  Deposits in foreign offices 
  69,398  
 0.15  
   27  
  67,213  
 0.20  
   33 
   Total interest-bearing deposits 
  689,204  
 0.23  
   399  
  665,361  
 0.30  
   507 
 Short-term b
orrowings
   52,820  
 0.21  
   28  
  48,742  
 0.14  
   17 
 Long-term debt
   127,505  
 2.30  
   735  
  129,445  
 2.73  
   885 
 Other liabilities
   9,975  
 2.27  
   56  
  12,166  
 2.60  
   80 
   Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  879,504  
 0.55  
   1,218  
  855,714  
 0.69  
   1,489 
 Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources
   333,678  
 -     -    280,019  
 -     -       Total funding sources 
$  1,213,182  
 0.40  
   1,218  
  1,135,733  
 0.52  
   1,489  
Net interest margin and net interest income on  
             a taxable-equivalent basis (5)  
   3.56  
% $  10,841  
   3.89  
% $  11,083 
 Noninterest-earning assets 
            Cash and due from banks 
$  16,361  
      17,718  
    Goodwill 
  25,637  
      25,057  
    Other 
  131,876  
      128,220  
         Total noninterest-earning assets 
$  173,874  
      170,995  
    Noninterest-bearing funding sources 
             Deposits 
$  286,924  
      246,692  
    Other liabilities 
  63,025  
      63,556  
    Total equity 
  157,603  
      140,766 
     Noninterest-bearing funding sources used to 
             fund earning assets 
  (333,678) 
      (280,019)
          Net noninterest-bearing funding sources 
$  173,874  
      170,995 
           Total assets
 $  1,387,056  
      1,306,728 
     (1) Our average prime rate was 3.25% for the quarters ended December
 31, 2012 and 2011. The average three-month London Interbank Of
fered Rate (LIBOR) was 0.32% 
and 0.48% for the same quarters, respectively. 
(2) Yields/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and l
iability categories. 
(3) Yields and rates are based on interest income/expense amounts 
for the period, annualized based 
on the accrual ba
sis for the res
pective accounts. The average balance 
amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented. 
(4) Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories.
 (5) Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of $198 million and $191 million for the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, res
pectively primarily related to tax-
exempt income on certain loans and securities. The fede
ral statutory tax rate was 35% for the periods presented.
 245   Glossary of Acronyms  ACL Allowance for credit losses 
ALCO  Asset/Liability Management Committee 
ARM
  Adjustable-r
ate mortgage 
ARS
  Auction rate security 
ASC
  Accounting Standards Codification 
ASU
 Accounting Standards Update 
AVM  Automated valuation model 
BCBS 
Basel Committee on Bank Supervision 
BHC 
Bank holding company 
CCAR 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
CD Certificate of deposit 
CDO  Collateralized debt obligation 
CLO  Collateralized loan obligation 
CLTV Combined loan-to-value 
CPP  Capital Purchase Program 
CPR Constant prepayment rate 
CRE
 Commercial real estate 
DOJ 
United States Department of Justice 
DPD 
Days past due 
ESOP
 Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
FAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
FASB
  Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIC  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FFELP 
Federal Family Education Loan Program 
FHA  Federal Housing Administration 
FHFA 
Federal Housing Finance Agency 
FHLB  Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC
  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
FNMA
  Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB
 Board of Governors of th
e Federal Reserve System 
FSB
 Financial Stability Board 
FTC 
Federal Trade Commission 
GAAP  Generally accepted a
ccounting principles 
GNMA
 Government National Mortgage Association 
GSE
 Government-sponsored entity 
G-SIB 
Globally systemic important bank 
HAMP
 Home Affordability Modification Program 
HPI Home Price Index 
HUD 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
LHFS  Loans held for sale 
LIBOR  London Interbank Offered Rate 
LIHTC 
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit 
LOCOM
 Lower of cost 
or market value 
LTV  Loan-to-value 
MBS Mortgage-backed security 
MHA 
Making Home Affordable programs 
MHFS
  Mortgages held for sale 
MSR
  Mortgage servicing right 
MTN 
Medium-term note 
NAV
  Net asset value 
NPA Nonperforming asset 
OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
OCI Other comprehensive income 
OTC Over-the-counter 
OTTI  Other-than-temporary impairment 
PCI Loans
 Purchased credit-impaired loans 
PTPP Pre-tax pre-provision profit 
RBC
 Risk-based capital 
ROA
 Wells Fargo net income
 to average total assets 
ROE
 Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock to 
average Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity 
SEC 
 Securities and Exchange Commission 
S&P
 Standard & Poor’s 
SPE 
 Special purpose entity 
TARP
 Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TDR  
Troubled debt restructuring 
VA Department of Veterans Affairs 
VaR  Value-at-risk 
VIE Variable interest entity 
WFCC
 Wells Fargo Canada Corporation 
 246  Stock Performance  These graphs compare the cumulative total stockholder return 
and total compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for our common stock (NYSE: WFC) for the five- and ten-year periods ended 

December 31, 2012, with the cumulative total stockholder 
returns for the same periods for 
the Keefe, Bruyette and Woods 
(KBW) Total Return Bank Index (KBW Bank Index (BKX))  
and the S&P 500 Index.  
The cumulative total stockholder returns (including 
reinvested dividends) in the graphs assume the investment  

of $100 in Wells Fargo’s common stock, the KBW Bank Index 

and the S&P 500 Index. 
  Five Year Performance Graph      Ten Year Performance Graph      











Common stock
Wellarompan
NechanC
ommharutstandin
Stock purchase and dividend reinvestment
Yoellarectellar
evou’rellaro

optionaasaymutom

fr
acco
vo
vide
reinvutomaticalonvonomical

wacreaoellarvestm
Caollmcludin
os
Form 10-K
WellsˆFargo’

Fcludinanciaem

thecchanommi

stockhskop

alssxhi

Warovxpenepar

anxhiasecr

Wellarompanellar

MA

Charolin
SEC ﬁlings


urr

amendmvailaar

sfarctical

eonicalsh

SEendmlsvaila

frarC’
Wellarompanationveommunitasanciaompan
as
Founeadquarterranciscellaroankinsurancvestmortgaonsume

commerciaancoorTMao
ank’ustom
whonusinaonomoremellarousehold
th
ellarompanak
Fortune
’kingerica’arorporationellargo’
austomanciaeedeluccancial
Independent registered 
public accounting ﬁrmKPM
Sranciscalifornia 

Contacts
Investelations 


investorrelations@wellsfarom
Shareownervic
Transf

Wellarhareownervices 



a


hareowneronlinom
Annuaockholdereeting 
oime 

Tuesda

Thericotel 

oeet 

Sakta
Our reputation
Aer 

Momkin

Onerica’kineams
Barron’s 
World’MResCompany
BLA
Onomp

fversity
Br
Thalua


Wells Fargo & Company
Forwarookinements
cludininanciaevieinanciaelontain
forwaraclorecaanciaesonxpectation
anusin
ossumptionorecaxpectationorwarctuaesae
aterial
oorwarveraomes
inanciaevie
inancia
anelsceforwarookinsacinancial
evie
Br
Amonalua

Brandorld
C
Amonploye

beaoice
CIO Amonomp

Technovationdvance

Businesults
Corpor
Amon
Czens
DiversityInc 
ompanversit

Tompanesbi

Bisexuaransgenploy

Tompanommunit

Development
Forbes 
Tomp

orld
Fortune 
World’dmir

Companyevon

Comp
dustries
Gl
onsum

thorporateˇ

Institutiona

eric

Solovider
Humampaign 
Perfcor

Equalitdex
LATINAStyle 
ompanas
hroniclanthropy 
America’oero

Casor
Washington
Oregon

Idaho
Montana
Colorado

North Dakota
South DakotaNebraska
California

Nevada

Utah
Wyoming
Arizona
New Mexico
Kansas
Oklahoma
Texas
Minnesota

Iowa
Wisconsin
Michigan
Missouri
Illinois

Indiana
Ohio
Kentucky
Tennessee
Arkansas
Louisiana
Mississippi
Alabama

Georgia

Florida
South Carolina

North Carolina
Virginia
W. Virginia
Pennsylvania
New York
Maine
N.H.
Vt.
New Jersey

Massachusetts
Rhode Island
Connecticut
D.C.
Maryland
Hawaii
Alaska
Delaware
Wellargo’s extensive network
#1  Retail banking deposits 
1#1  Total stores
#1  Retail mortgage lender

#1  Home loan originator to minority and low- to moderate-income 
consumers & in low- to moderate-income neighborhoods 

(ata)
#1  Auto lender and used car auto lender  
(AutoCount Jxcludinases)
#1  Small Business lender (U.Sars per 2011 Community 
Reinvestment Act governmata)
#1  U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBAa) lender in dollar 
volum2012)
#1  Preferred stock underwriter (Fberg)

#1  REIT preferred stock underwriter (Fberg)

#1  Oil & gas loan syndications (Fomson Reu

#1  Consumer Internet Bank in the U.S. (
Global Finance Magazine); and on “TheInnovators” list at 

for online banking servic2012)
#1  Corporate/Institutional Internet Bank in North America 
(Magazine)
#1  in Mobile Banking for privacy, security, quality and availability 
(Keynote’s Mobile Banking Scorecar)
#1  Mortgage servicer

#1  Business and #2 Consumer Debit card issuer
#2  U.S. deposits
#2  Annuity distributor (Transamerica Roundtaurvey)

#2  Real estate loan syndications (Fomson Reu

#2  Asset-based loans (Fomson Reu

#2  REIT loan syndications (Fomson Reu

#2  Utilities loan syndications (Fomson Reu

#2  Provider of private student loans

#3  Non-investment grade loan syndications (Fomson 
Reu
#3  Middle market loan syndications (F2012, Thomson ReuLPC)

#3  Branded bank ATM owner (12,27ellarTMs)

#3  Full-service retail brokerage provider based on number of 
Financial Advisors
#4  Loan syndications (Fomson Reu

#4  High grade loan syndications (Fomson Reu

#4  High grade bonds (Falogic)

#4  Wealth management provider (
Barron’s
)#5  IRA provider (Cerulli Associates)

#7  Institutional retirement plan recordkeeper 
(PLANSPONSOR
Magazine)
#7  Merchant processor for Credit and Debit Cards

#8  Family wealth provider (Bloomberg)

Argentina
Australia

Bahamas

Bangladesh

Brazil

Canada

Cayman Islands
ChileChina

Colombia

Dominican Republic

Ecuador

Egypt

France
Germany
Hong Kong

India

Indonesia

Ireland

Italy

Japan

Jersey
Korea
Malaysia

Mexico

Philippines

Russia

Singapore

South Africa

Spain
Taiwan
Thailand

Turkey

United Arab Emirates

United Kingdom 

Vietnam
Stores

worldwide

wellsfargo.com

active online 
customers

9.4 millionactive mobile 
customers
Wells Fargo  
Customer 
Connection
approximately
customer 
contacts
Key rankings
1Depoe, excludes non-retail stores and credit unions. Source: SNL
Wells Fargo & Company˚ 
ontgomery Street˝ 

San Francisco, Californi
˚-'˚˜'˝wellsfargo.com
Together we’ll go far
Our Vision:
Satisfy all our customers’ ﬁnancial needs and help them 
succeed ﬁnancially.
Nuestra Vision:
Deseamos satisfacer todas las necesidades ﬁnancieras 

de nuestros clientes y ayudarlos a tener éxito en el 

áreanciera.
Notre Vision:
Satisfaire tous les besoins ﬁnanciers de nos clients  

et les aider à atteindre le succès ﬁnancier.

 
