2014 Annual Report
Financial Summary
In billions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2014
2013
2012
Citicorp Net Revenues
$71.1
$71.9
$70.0
Citi Holdings Net Revenues
5.8
4.6
(0.8)
Citigroup Net Revenues
$76.9
$76.4
$69.2
Citicorp Net Income
10.7
15.6
14.1
Citi Holdings Net Loss
(3.4)
(1.9)
(6.6)Citigroup Net Income
$7.3
$13.7
$7.5
Diluted EPS Š Net Income
2.20
4.35
2.44
Diluted EPS Š Income from Continuing Operations
2.20
4.26
2.46
Citicorp Assets
1,745
1,763
1,709
Citi Holdings Assets
98117156Citigroup Assets
$1,843$1,880$1,865
Deposits
899.3
968.3
930.6
Citigroup Stockholders™ Equity
210.5
204.3
189.0
Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio
110.6
%10.6
%8.7
%Basel III Tier 1 Capital Ratio
111.5%11.3
%9.0
%Basel III Total Capital Ratio
112.8%12.7
%10.8
%Estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio
16.0
%5.4
%N/A
Book Value per Share
$66.16
$65.23
$61.57
Common Shares Outstanding (millions)
3,023.9
3,029.2
3,028.9
Market Capitalization
$164$158
$120
Direct Staff (thousands)
241
251
259
Totals may not sum due to rounding.
1 Under the Final Basel III Rules assuming full implementation.
N/A
 Not applicable to 2012
1Let me now review our ˜rm™s progress in 2014 toward each 
of these goals and also update you on other important 
achievements Š as well as some setbacks Š of the year.
There is no question that we have made strong progress 
on the ˜rst two goals. Our deferred tax assets Š crisis-era 
write-offs against future earnings Š will not be going away 
anytime soon. But we have shown that we can utilize these 
assets on a consistent basis, and at higher levels than many 
predicted or expected, generating additional regulatory 
capital. In utilizing $3.3 billion of our deferred tax assets 

in 2014, we exceeded 2013™s level by $800 million and now 
have utilized $5.8 billion in the last two years.
Regarding the second goal, we worked hard to drive Citi 
Holdings to break-even by 2015 and did so in 2014, sooner 
than even I expected. While there may be ˚uctuations from 
quarter to quarter, we are committed to keeping Holdings at 
or slightly better than break-even for the foreseeable future.
Additionally, in 2014 we reduced Holdings™ assets by a further 
16%, driven by ongoing run-off and asset sales. During the 

course of last year, we also took important steps toward the 
sale of OneMain Š which we announced recently and expect 
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
2014 was for Citi an important chapter in a multi-year story 
of radical, yet thoughtful and prudent, transformation of 
the size, scope and structure of our ˜rm. It was also a year 
of challenges Š that much is obvious Š and signi˜cant 
accomplishment, which may not seem quite so evident. 
 Yet if we step back and view the year in context, we can see 
how far our company has come in a short time.
By virtually any measure, Citi is a stronger, safer, simpler and 
smaller institution than it was before, during or just after 
the ˜nancial crisis Š and even compared with two years ago 

when I assumed the role of CEO.
It™s a vast understatement to say that we merely ﬁrebuiltﬂ our 
capital position since the crisis. In fact, our capital strength 
now far exceeds even pre-crisis levels, with nearly $140 
billion in regulatory capital and a Tier 1 Common capital ratio 
of 10.6%. And we hold more than $400 billion in high-quality 
liquid assets.
That Citi is also smaller and simpler can be seen through 
many metrics. Our headcount now stands at 241,000 Š down 

from a peak of 375,000. We™ve shed more than 60 non-core 
businesses. Our balance sheet is smaller and consists of 
higher quality assets. Assets in Citi Holdings Š which once 
topped $700 billion Š are now below $100 billion. And we™ve 
shrunk the number of our legal entities to further simplify 
our structure and governance.
In short, today™s Citi is not the bank that entered, endured, or 
emerged from the ˜nancial crisis. It™s a very different ˜rm Š 
one that has returned to its roots as the world™s most global 

consumer, commercial and institutional bank, a trusted 
partner of choice for multinationals and globally-minded 
customers who do business in every time zone.
When I took over as CEO, my overarching goal was Š and 
remains Š to build on this progress, to position our ˜rm to 
realize the full value of our network and all its potential. To that 
end, I set four speci˜c goals for Citi: ˜rst, to utilize our deferred 
tax assets; second, to drive Citi Holdings to break-even; third, 
to generate quality and consistent earnings; and fourth, to be 

known as an indisputably strong and stable institution.
2to close by the end of this year. And, after careful review, we 
announced our intent to exit several non-core Consumer and 
Institutional businesses, which will be reported as part of Citi 
Holdings going forward. This move allows us to reallocate 
those resources to businesses with far greater potential to 
deliver value to clients and generate returns for the ˜rm.
Turning now to the third goal, our record of delivering quality 
and consistent earnings so far is mixed. We™ve produced 
many strong quarters that show the power of our franchise 
and what this ˜rm can do at its best. But the environment 

remains challenging and our results have also been undercut 
by a series of legal accruals and settlements as well as 
sizable repositioning charges.
Yet even in the face of these challenges, we made substantial 
progress in every one of our business lines. In our Consumer 
franchise, we further simpli˜ed our product offerings 
while increasing the number of customers whose primary 
interactions with the bank are through digital channels. 
 As a result, we were pleased to see an increase in customer 

satisfaction, as measured by Net Promoter Scores.
We also made considerable progress toward the rationalization 
and rightsizing of our country and branch networks. In the 
 11 markets we marked for divestiture in 2014, we didn™t see the 

potential for achieving appropriate returns. Going forward, 
our core Consumer network will comprise those 24 countries 
where we enjoy some mixture of scale, competitive advantage, 
history and expertise. We closed sales on our retail franchises 
in Greece and Spain and signed agreements to sell those in 

Peru and Japan. And, in an environment that continues to 
be challenging, our U.S. business performed well, while we 
showed modest growth internationally.
Our Institutional franchise performed well throughout 
the year as we focused on serving core clients and our 
institutional banking businesses continued to show solid 
revenue growth. In Investment Banking, we gained share 
with our target clients across most regions and generated 
strong revenue growth. And despite the low interest rate 

environment, Treasury and Trade Solutions grew revenues as 
well, as did the Private Bank. While our Markets businesses 
were impacted by lower client activity toward the end of 
the year, we will continue to take steps to make sure these 
businesses are sized correctly for the environment we see 
going forward.
I know that, to ful˜ll the potential of this company, we 
must both execute our strategy to our utmost and stop 
undermining our progress with self-in˚icted wounds. 
That™s why I™ve made ethics and execution the core of 
my agenda as CEO. Acting ethically in all that we do is a 
cultural and business imperative. It also impacts directly 
on the bottom line. Fines and settlements consume capital 
that could otherwise be used to invest in our business, or 
returned to you, our shareholders. Acting ethically is, ˜rst 
and foremost, our license to do business. But even more 
important, integrity is the currency through which we earn 
and deserve the trust of our clients and customers Š which 

is the necessary foundation of everything we do.
And I want to make absolutely clear that we are still 
committed to meeting, in 2015, the targets we set for our 
˜rm™s return on assets and for our ef˜ciency ratio. While 
challenging to achieve this year, they are within reach if 
market conditions remain stable. All that we accomplished 
over the last two years has been in preparation for this year. 
And I™m con˜dent we will rise to the occasion.
˜


˝†“
˜˛“

˛’“š€˙
˘˙

˛†“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˙˚˝˝


†–“
ƒˆ˘
⁄
˜–“
ƒˆ
˜˝“
˜˚˛
˘
2014 Citicorp Net Revenues
13Letter to Shareholders
Regarding the fourth goal Š becoming known as indisputably 
strong and stable Š our capital, liquidity and other numbers 
speak, loudly, to the substantial progress we™ve made. In 2014 
alone Š and despite signi˜cant legal charges Š we were able 
to generate $11 billion in regulatory capital, bringing the total 
to $31 billion over the last two years. Our capital, leverage 
and liquidity ratios each increased over the course of 2014.
Beyond the numbers, we™ve also made considerable progress 
toward strengthening the foundational pillars of this ˜rm: 
governance, culture, controls and technology. We established 

a consistent framework for assessing performance Š of 
businesses, functions and, above all, people Š through our 
balanced scorecard system, which includes culture and 
control metrics, as well as through our quarterly reviews that 
I conduct in person. We took 14 legacy anti-money-laundering 
monitoring platforms and consolidated them into one. And 
we™ve built a globally consistent approach to ethics training 
and set global standards for suitability and sales practices.
However, despite this progress, last year we uncovered a 
fraud in Mexico and the Federal Reserve found signi˜cant 
issues with our capital planning processes. We continue to 
invest in our Risk, Audit and Compliance functions Š not 
simply in response to Mexico but as part of a broader effort 
to ensure that our controls and processes are among the 
very best in the industry.
Regarding our capital plan, we spent the bulk of 2014 in 
close consultation with Federal Reserve of˜cials to address 
their concerns. We invested in and strengthened our risk 

identi˜cation and scenario designs, improved our models, 
Citi™s Jamie Anzellotti mentors college student Anika in 
New York City: ﬁI have seen Anika grow into a con˜dent and 

accomplished young woman who knows that today™s struggles 

are tomorrow™s successes.ﬂ
Pathways to Progress: 
 Jump-Starting Career Readiness 

for 100,000 Young People
In March 2014, CEO Mike Corbat and the Citi Foundation 
launched Pathways to Progress, a three-year, $50 million 
national commitment to provide 100,000 low-income 
urban young people, ages 16 to 24, across the United 
States with the opportunity to develop the workplace 
skills and leadership experience necessary to compete in 
a 21st century economy. The initiative focuses on 10 of the 
largest U.S. cities: Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, 
Miami, Newark, New York City, St. Louis, San Francisco 
and Washington, D.C. 
˜˚˛˝˛˙
˜˚ˆ˝ˇ˚
˜˚ˇ˝˛˘
˜˝˚ˆ
˜˚˚˝ˇ˛
˜
˜˙
˜˝˚ˇ
˜ˇ

˛˘˝˘
˙˝ˇ
˛˘˝˚
˛˘
˛˘˝
˛˘˝˚
˛˘
˛˘˝
˛˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˚
˜
˚


•
˜˛‡ˆ
˜˛‡˛˙ˆ
˜˛‡
˜˛‡˛˚˙
˜˛‡
˜˛‡ˆ˛
˜˛‡ˆ˛
˜˛‡ˇ˘ˆ
˜˛‡ˆ˙ˇ
˚˚˝˛
˚˝ˇ
˚˝
˚
˚˝



……


……


˜
˘ˇ˘

˘…

–
˘
†‹

ˇ˘……
Ł†‹
Citigroup Key Capital Metrics
4looked back. In 2014 alone, we lent another $9.2 billion to 
American small businesses Š almost double the amount of 
˜ve years prior.
All these accomplishments Š and many more Š have 
positioned our company well for 2015 and beyond. Yet I know 
full well that the future is never guaranteed. And what all of 
you expect Š and deserve Š is nothing less than to see these 
actions and investments pay off for the company™s bottom 
line and in our share price. I™m con˜dent that they will, and 
that you Š and the world Š will soon see the full potential of 

this franchise realized.
In early February, 280 of Citi™s senior leaders met for our 
annual gathering to set the agenda for the year. I™ve never 
left a meeting more optimistic or energized. People held 
their heads high and looked forward to helping create a 
bright future for this ˜rm. We are all determined that 2015 
will be the year when we demonstrate conclusively what our 
company can do.
I appreciate your continued trust and con˜dence in me, and I 
strive every day to earn them.
Sincerely,
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer, Citigroup Inc.
and fostered deeper engagement with the Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review process across all our businesses.
On March 11, we received the welcome news that the Federal 
Reserve raised no objection to our 2015 capital plan. That 

means that, beginning in the second quarter of this year, we 
will raise our quarterly dividend from one penny per share to 
˜ve cents and will begin a common stock buy-back program 
of up to $7.8 billion.
These amounts are signi˜cant and the ful˜llment of a 
promise we made to you long ago. Yet even more important 
are the changes we™ve made to our capital planning process. 
We intend to be able to return capital to you on a consistent 
basis going forward. And we know that, in order to do this, 

all the progress we made in 2014 to improve our processes 
must not only be embedded in the way we do business, 
but must also continue into the future. The challenge of 
constantly re˜ning and upgrading our capital planning is now 
and will remain a permanent part of our mission. The bar 
will always rise for the entire industry. And Federal Reserve 
of˜cials have made clear that, because of Citi™s unique global 
franchise, they will hold us to the highest standard Š one we 
are committed to meeting.
In 2014, we also strengthened and deepened our efforts 
to help the communities we serve. For instance, Citi is 
committed to supporting small businesses and helping create 
jobs. Four years ago, we made a pledge to lend $24 billion 
over three years to U.S. small businesses Š a substantial 
increase in our small business lending Š and not only did we 
surpass that goal, we sustained those levels and have not 
The initiative has been developed in tandem with leading 
national partners with demonstrated ability and capacity to 
implement impactful programs and support young people 
to transform ambition into achievement.
In addition to the ˜nancial investment and technical 
assistance being provided by the Citi Foundation, hundreds 
of Citi employees have volunteered time and expertise in 
Pathways to Progress programs as coaches, mentors and 

leaders of professional skill-building workshops.
This year, Pathways to Progress will expand globally to 
cities outside the United States.
ﬁI applaud the Citi Foundation and its 
partners for putting the needs of our 
children ˜rst and coming together on 
Pathways to Progress. The innovative 
partnership among these organizations 
will help our nation™s young people 
succeed inside and outside the classroom 
while strengthening and building a 
thriving middle class.ﬂ
Š U.S. Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan
5captures more than 96% of GCB™s existing revenue base 
and concentrates resources on markets where our scale and 
network provide the greatest competitive advantage.
A signi˜cant and growing contributor to the company 
as a whole, in 2014, GCB generated $10 billion in pretax 
earnings, more than half of Citicorp™s total, while improving 
performance and pro˜tability. Key business drivers 
demonstrated strong growth: Average loans grew 3%, cards 
purchase sales increased 3%, assets under management 
rose 7% and average deposits were up 1%, with growth 

concentrated in checking and savings accounts. 
In 2014, GCB businesses held $331 billion in average 
deposits, included $298 billion in average loans and 
managed $173 billion in average assets. GCB operates 
approximately 3,280
2 branches in 700 cities worldwide.
Credit Cards
Citi is the world™s largest credit card issuer, with 139 million 
accounts, $375 billion in annual purchase sales, and $142 
billion in average receivables across Citi
® Branded Cards and 
Citi Retail Services.
Citi Branded Cards
Citi Branded Cards provides payment and credit solutions to 
consumers and small businesses. With more than 50 million 
accounts in circulation, in 2014, the business generated 
annual purchase sales of $294 billion and held an average 
loan portfolio of $99 billion.
Citi™s Global Consumer Bank is a 
client-centric, urban-focused bank 

serving approximately 59 million 

clients in 35 countries.
The Global Consumer Bank (GCB) operates four geographical 
business lines Š Branded Cards, Retail Services
1, Retail 
Banking and Commercial Banking Š in Citi™s four regions: 
Asia; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA); Latin 
America; and North America. Generating nearly half of its 
revenues outside of North America, GCB is diversi˜ed and 
well-positioned, with a strategic focus on the 100 cities in 
the U.S. and top emerging markets with the highest growth 
potential and where our target client segments are thriving.
The business serves a quality, globally diverse client base 
through simple, ˚exible and powerful solutions, a network 

of state-of-the-art retail branch formats, and innovative 
digital offerings that aim to deliver a simple, secure and 
seamless client experience.
GCB continues to simplify operations and capture global 
ef˜ciencies. In 2014, Citi announced strategic actions to 
streamline its consumer footprint to the 24 markets with the 
greatest scale and growth potential for the ˜rm. As a result, 
Citi is exiting Consumer operations in 11 markets as well as 
its consumer ˜nance business in Korea. The new footprint 
Newly launched Citi Bike
® Miami is expanding the success of the 
city™s current bike share system in Miami Beach by adding 750 
bikes at 70 new stations throughout downtown.
In Brazil, Citi opened a ˚agship branch in São Paulo with state-of-

the-art technology that showcases a differentiated level of client 

service and the full breadth of its products and services.
6In 2014, Citi continued to harness the power of its unrivaled 
global scale and network on behalf of our cardmembers. With 
many of the best rewards capabilities and partners in the 
industry Š including Air France
®, KLM® and Hilton HHonors
TM Š Citi introduced a single powerful global rewards platform 
in two markets and will continue rollout in 2015. The new 
best-in-class experience includes a global rewards catalog, 
travel portal, special offers and the ability to transfer points 
to loyalty partners.
Citi Branded Cards also made signi˜cant progress in 
simplifying and standardizing its product portfolio. The 
number of product variations was reduced by 50%, and 
globally common products were introduced. Following 

launches in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and the 
U.S., we introduced the Citi Prestige
SM card Š Citi™s ˜rst credit 
card to offer af˚uent customers a common set of global 

bene˜ts and experiences Š in Australia, India and Korea. 
 We also launched the Citi Simplicity
SM card for value-focused 
customers in Australia and the United Arab Emirates.
In the U.S., Citi Branded Cards continued to enhance 
product and reward competitiveness as well as improve 
the cardmember experience. In the fast-growing cash back 
segment, Citi introduced Citi
® Double Cash, which provides 
1% cash back on all purchases with no cap on the amount of 
cash back cardmembers can earn or category restrictions 
and an additional 1% cash back when paying for those 
purchases Š a combination of bene˜ts that is unique in the 
industry. Citi also deepened relationships with key co-brand 
partners and announced that we will become the exclusive 
credit card issuer of all new accounts for American Airlines 
following the integration of the American and US Airways 
frequent ˚yer programs.
Citi continued to expand how ThankYou
® Rewards members 
can use their ThankYou Points. Members now can transfer 
points to elite air and hotel loyalty programs and use points 
to pay bills online through a Citibank checking account. Citi 
Prestige also was enhanced to deliver greater value, with 
more opportunities to earn points on airfare, hotel, dining 
and entertainment purchases; expanded airport lounge 
access; an annual airline travel credit; and complimentary 
hotel night stays.
1Citi Retail Services operates in North America.
2 Does not include approximately 400 Banco de Chile branches, which are 
part of a joint venture between Citi and Banco de Chile.
Fueling Digital 
 Innovation Worldwide 
To drive the next wave of innovations that will improve our 
customers™ lives, the Global Consumer Bank launched the 
Citi Mobile Challenge, a groundbreaking global initiative to 
inspire technology developers to reimagine mobile banking 
and payments.
For each Citi Mobile Challenge, Citi worked directly 
with individual developers, teams and companies from 
around the world, providing a suite of tools to help them 

create real-world innovations to bene˜t clients. Selected 
participants were invited to present their concepts at 
demonstration events before a panel of judges from Citi 
and leading technology ˜rms. Each Challenge included cash 
awards and the opportunity to work with Citi for a chance to 
bring solutions to market.
In 2014, the Citi Mobile Challenge launched in Latin America 
and the U.S. Five hundred developers from 19 countries 
submitted consumer and B2B solutions from Latin America, 

and ˜nalists gathered at events in Bogotá and Buenos 
Aires. In the U.S., the Citi Mobile Challenge involved more 
than 3,000 developers from 62 countries and featured 
˜nalists at events in Miami, New York City and Silicon Valley.
As Citi evaluates the top innovations, plans are underway to 
launch the Citi Mobile Challenge in Asia, EMEA and Mexico. 
The Citi Mobile Challenge exempli˜es how Citi is striving to 
break the mold and think about innovation and development 
in new ways to revolutionize the banking experience.
2014 Highlights
Citi Mobile Challenge ˜nalist Luna Chen presented a working 
prototype at the Miami Demo Day event on November 14, 2014.
7Access to Citi
® Private Pass
®, Citi™s industry-leading 
entertainment access platform, also expanded. The 
program, which launched in Asia and Latin America, offers 
cardmembers across 19 countries special access to purchase 
tickets for thousands of music, sports, dining and family 
entertainment events.
Citi Cards provided new ways to make purchases online 
and via smartphones. Citi is the ˜rst bank to introduce Citi 
Wallet
SM, our own branded digital wallet in the U.S., which 
simpli˜es and shortens online checkout to just a few clicks. 

In addition, Citi™s work with Apple on Apple Pay is an example 
of our commitment to delivering choice and value through 
innovation and providing cardmembers faster and more 
convenient ways to make payments.
Retail Services
Citi Retail Services provides consumer and commercial 
credit card products Š both private label and co-branded Š 
to national and regional retailers and their clients across 

North America. The business serves 88 million accounts for 
a number of iconic brands, including Best Buy, ExxonMobil, 
Macy™s, Sears, Shell and The Home Depot.
In 2014, Citi Retail Services extended four relationships, 
including Macy™s, Inc., and celebrated new ones with 
CNH Industrial and Volkswagen of America, solidifying 
the business™s position as a top provider of private label 
and co-branded card products to U.S. retailers and their 
clients. In addition to credit services, Citi Retail Services 

offers cutting-edge digital options, multi-channel retailing 
expertise and industry-leading analytics capabilities that 
help retailers expand and deepen customer relationships 
and grow their businesses.
In 2014, Citi Retail Services saw purchase sales of $80 billion, 
with an average loan portfolio totaling $43 billion.
Retail Banking
In the fastest-growing cities around the world, Citibank 
serves a full range of consumer banking needs, including 
checking and savings accounts, loans, wealth management 
advice and small business services.
Through Citigold
® wealth management, Citibank offers 
personalized service, unique bene˜ts and global capabilities 
to clients worldwide. To meet the needs of the emerging 
af˚uent Š one of the world™s fastest-growing consumer market 
segments Š Citi launched a unique value proposition in Latin 
America and EMEA called Citi Priority. This offering delivers 
tailored products, simple solutions and unmatched service to 
support a ˚exible, global, digital lifestyle.
Citi continued to build a lighter, more purposeful footprint of 
next-generation retail formats and a digitally sophisticated 

presence. Citi Smart Banking branch locations opened in top 
cities, including Dubai, Mexico City, Monterrey, Moscow, 
 New York, Rio de Janeiro, San Francisco, São Paulo, Sydney 

and Warsaw. Smart Banking improvements are driving 
meaningful increases in client acquisition and satisfaction, 
speed of in-branch servicing, and sales and brand recognition.
In 2014, Citi lent $9.2 billion to U.S. small businesses. Since 
2012, Citi has lent small businesses $28 billion, an increase of 

more than 50% from the previous three-year period.
Citibank continues to design simple, easy, intuitive digital 

products that deliver speed, convenience and value.
8Digital is GCB™s largest and fastest-growing service channel. 
 As the number of our mobile banking clients grows rapidly
  
Š 
last year alone saw a 50% increase over 2013 levels Š Citi 
continued to launch simple, easy, intuitive digital products that 
deliver speed, convenience and value. In the U.S., Citi unveiled 
a new ATM experience to make everyday transactions easier, 
launched the Access Account for clients who prefer to bank 
digitally with greater control over their ˜nances, and introduced 
Citi Mobile® Snapshot, enabling clients to view deposit and 
credit card balances without logging in to their accounts.
GCB™s efforts were recognized by 
Global Finance
 magazine with three awards, including Best in Mobile Banking, Best 
in Social Media and Best Consumer Internet Bank in North 
America. 
Mobile Commerce Daily
 named Citi its 2014 Mobile 
Bank of the Year.
The Mortgage business, which provides loans for home 
purchase and re˜nance transactions in the U.S., originated 
$25.2 billion in new loans in 2014. The business continued to 

deepen client relationships by aligning with Citibank™s U.S. 
retail bank footprint, expanding digital collaborations, and 
redesigning its ful˜llment process to reduce cycle times and 
improve the client experience. Citi Mortgage remains highly 
committed to foreclosure prevention and, in 2014, conducted 
its fourth consecutive Road to Recovery Tour, a series of 
events offering private sessions for clients whose ˜nancial 
dif˜culties affect their ability to make mortgage payments.
In 2014, Citi Banamex Š which serves 21 million clients in 

Mexico Š celebrated its 130th anniversary. One of Mexico™s 
oldest and most respected ˜nancial institutions, Citi 
Banamex holds a leading position in retail banking, consumer 
credit, corporate and investment banking, securities 
brokerage, transaction services, wealth management, bank 
insurance, and mutual and pension funds.
Global Finance
 honored Citi Banamex with ˜ve awards, 
including Best Consumer Internet Bank, Best Corporate/

Institutional Internet Bank, Best Online Treasury Services, 
Best Online Cash Management and Best Mobile Banking App 
in Mexico.
Commercial Banking
Citi Commercial Bank (CCB) provides trade-oriented mid-
sized companies with access to award-winning products. In 
2014, CCB enhanced its service to clients in more than 100 
cities worldwide. By leveraging a rising trend in mid-sized 
companies requiring global banking capabilities and services, 

the Commercial Bank helped many of its clients expand 
internationally and access capital across multiple countries. 
CCB is an enabler of global growth and has been an important 
partner for companies as they continue to broaden their reach 
across key urban centers around the world.
In 2014, CCB was recognized as Export Lender of the Year 
by the U.S. Small Business Administration and was named 
recipient of Best SME (Small and Medium Enterprise) 
 Service Brand by 
China CFO
 magazine in its Top CFO™s 
 
Most Trustworthy Bank Award. 
Citi Prestige
SM was enhanced to deliver even greater value 
to cardmembers through opportunities to earn points 
on airfare, hotel, dining and entertainment purchases; 

expanded airport lounge access; an annual airline travel 

credit; and complimentary hotel night stays.
Citi™s expert mortgage consultants help families achieve the 

dream of homeownership. In 2014, Citi Mortgage originated 

$25.2 billion in new loans in the U.S.
9With trading ˚oors in more than 80 countries, clearing and 
custody networks in over 60 countries, and connections 
with 400 clearing systems, Citi maintains one of the largest 
global ˜nancial infrastructures and facilitates on average 
more than $3 trillion of ˚ows daily. This is what enables Citi 
to build enduring relationships with clients and serve them 
with distinction.
Capital Markets Origination
Citi™s Capital Markets Origination business is focused on the 
capital-raising needs of our institutional clients, from inaugural 

issuances and exchanges to cross-border transactions 
and ˜rst-of-their-kind landmark structures. Owing to our 
unmatched global footprint and diverse range of ˜nancial 
products, Citi aims to be the ˜rst choice among issuers for 
clients™ underwriting needs. Citi™s track record of successfully 
executing in both buoyant and challenging market conditions 
is a testament to our unwavering commitment to provide 
the highest quality service to clients. Citi™s structuring and 
execution expertise has established the ˜rm as a leader in the 

equity capital markets, whether measured by innovation or 
proceeds raised, and has distinguished Citi as the clear choice 
for debt underwriting, with excellence across a broad range of 
currencies and markets.
In 2014, Citi was underwriter for several landmark 
transactions, including Alibaba Group Holding Limited™s 
 $25 billion initial public offering (IPO) in September and 
 $8 billion bond offering in November. Citi also served as joint 
global coordinator on Ally Financial™s $2.6 billion IPO and led 
Through our network of more than 
100 countries, Citi™s Institutional 

Clients Group helps multinational 

companies grow, hire, and deliver 

products and services. Citi also 

provides ˜nancing and support to 

governments at all levels to help 

them not only conduct day-to-day 

operations but also to build 

sustainable infrastructure, housing, 

transportation, schools and other 

vital public works for the future. 

Over the past two centuries, Citi 
 has ˜nanced some of the world™s 

most transformative projects, and 

every day Š through lending, cash 

management, advisory services 

and much more Š we continue to 

support innovation and growth 

around the world.
Citi™s 800 private bankers and product specialists act as trusted 
advisors to many of the world™s most successful and in˚uential 

individuals and families.
In 2014, Citi launched automated renminbi (RMB) cross-

border sweeping from China to London, expanding Citi™s ﬁliveﬂ 

automated RMB cross-border sweeping capabilities in China, 

Hong Kong, London and Singapore.
10all of Ally™s private placements. In November, Citi served as 
a joint bookrunner on Kinder Morgan, Inc.™s $6 billion bond 
offering as part of the ˜nancing for its acquisition of Kinder 
Morgan Energy Partners, L.P., Kinder Morgan Management, 
LLC and El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P.
Corporate and Investment Banking
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking franchises provide 
comprehensive relationship coverage service to ensure the 
best possible service and responsiveness to clients. With its 
strong presence in many nations, Citi uses country, sector 

and product expertise to deliver our global capabilities to 
clients wherever they choose to compete.
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking client teams 
are organized by industry and by country. Each team is 
composed of two parts: Strategic Coverage Of˜cers focus on 
mergers and acquisitions and equity and related ˜nancing 
solutions, while Corporate Bankers Š in partnership with 
Citi™s Capital Markets specialists and with support from the 
Global Subsidiaries Group Š deliver corporate banking and 

˜nance services to global, regional and local clients. 
In 2014, Citi advised on several transformational transactions. 
For instance, we were lead ˜nancial advisor to AB Acquisition 
LLC (Albertson™s) and to an investor group led by Cerberus 
Capital Management, L.P. in acquiring all of the outstanding 
shares of Safeway Inc. Citi also was a joint lead arranger on 
the ˜nancing for the transaction. Citi advised Kinder Morgan, 
Inc. on its acquisition of all of the outstanding publicly held 
Citi introduced Citi Working Capital Analytics, which is 
designed to support strategic decision making for a company™s 

treasury, procurement and shared service center organizations. 
Affordable Housing Finance
 magazine named Citi Community 

Capital as the number one Affordable Housing Lender in the U.S.
 International Financing Review
 named Citi Best Global 
Derivatives House, Best Global Credit Derivatives House 
and Best Global Emerging Markets Bond House. 
 Global Finance
 awarded Citi with several global honors, 

including Best Corporate Bank, Best Emerging Markets 
Bank, Best Cash Management Bank, Best Trade Finance 
Bank and Best Subcustody Bank. 
 Citi was named Best Corporate/Institutional Internet 

Bank globally as well as Best Investment Management 
Services and Online Cash Management globally by 
 Global Finance
 magazine.
 Citi was named Best Global Flow House and Best Global 

Emerging Market Investment Bank by 
Euromoney
 as well 
as Top FX Bank, Best Investment Bank in Central & Eastern 
Europe and Best Investment Bank in Latin America. 
 Citi was named Clearing Bank of the Year by 
GlobalCapital 

Derivatives
 and was recognized by 
Structured Retail 
Products Online
 for Innovation and Achievements in 

Structured Products.
 Citi topped the 
Global Investor/ISF
 2014 Transition 

Management Survey and received Roll of Honor 
recognition in six categories in the 
Global Custodian
 2014 
OTC Derivatives Prime Brokerage Survey, the largest 
number of honors of any prime broker in the survey.
 Citi has pledged to source $2.5 billion in incremental 
capital to improve access to electricity for millions of 
people across Africa as part of the Power Africa initiative. 
Over the past two years, Citi has spearheaded more than 
$1.5 billion in funding for the continent™s power sector.
2014 Highlights
11equity securities of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P., 
Kinder Morgan Management, LLC and El Paso Pipeline 

Partners, L.P. in a transaction valued at approximately 
 $76 billion. Citi also acted as lead ˜nancial advisor to 
 Level 3 Communications, Inc. on its $7.3 billion acquisition 
 of tw telecom and participated in the transaction ˜nancing.
Markets and Securities Services
Citi™s Markets and Securities Services business provides 

world-class ˜nancial products and services as diverse as 

the needs of the thousands of corporations, institutions, 

governments and investors Citi serves. Citi works to enrich 

the relationships, products and technology that de˜ne its 

market-making presence. The breadth, depth and strength of 

Citi™s sales and trading, distribution and research capabilities 

span a broad range of asset classes, currencies, sectors 

and products, including equities, commodities, credit, 

futures, foreign exchange (FX), emerging markets, G10 

rates, municipals, prime ˜nance and securitized markets. 

Our Investor Services and Direct Custody and Clearing 

businesses provide customized solutions that support the 

diverse investment and transaction strategies of investors 

and intermediaries worldwide.
The Citi Velocity
SM platform delivers electronic access to 
Citi™s global footprint and real-time information, giving 
clients unprecedented access to capital markets intelligence 

and services across all product lines. Through web, mobile 

and trading applications, clients can ˜nd Citi research, 
commentary, and proprietary data and analytics; execute fast, 

seamless and stable foreign exchange and rates trades; and 

utilize Citi™s suite of sophisticated, post-trade analysis tools.
In 2014, Citi developed a four-part, $758 million ˜nancing 
structure that re˜nanced the Community Preservation 

Corporation™s existing debt and provided the liquidity needed 

to restart loan operations that will serve New York State™s 

most distressed neighborhoods.
Citi tied for second place in global ˜xed income market share 
for 2014, a gain for the year, according to ˜nancial services 

consultancy Greenwich Associates. In addition, Citi was 

recognized as a Greenwich Leader in overall best service 

quality and was ranked as the top three in global ˜xed 

income trading share among hedge funds, credit and rates. 

The research respondents included more than 4,000 ˜xed 

income investors.
Risk magazine awarded Citi OTC Clearer of the Year and 
Credit Derivatives House of the Year, and 
The Banker
 named 
Citi the Most Innovative Bank for Equity Derivatives.
Private Banking
Citi operates one of the world™s leading global private banks, 

whose teamwork, commitment to service, and ability to see 

and seize opportunities for clients set it apart. Citi™s 800 

private bankers and product specialists, located in 51 of˜ces 

in 16 countries, act as trusted advisors to many of the world™s 

most successful and in˚uential individuals and families.
Launched in 2014, TreasuryVision
® Liquidity Manager 
is a key component of Citi™s TreasuryVision Analytics 
toolkit, which provides interactive balance visibility via 

the CitiDirect
® online banking platform.
Citi CEO Michael Corbat joined New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, third from 

left, and other of˜cials to announce a partnership to establish a $350 million 

fund to support affordable housing throughout New York City.
Photo credit: Rob Bennett/Mayoral Photography Of˜ce
12Citi™s comprehensive services are tailored to individuals 
and families, including entrepreneurs and business 
owners, single- and multi-family of˜ces, senior corporate 
executives, next-generation/inherited wealth, law ˜rms 
and attorneys. Through banking and cash management to 
lending, investment strategies, and trust and wealth advisory 
services, Citi™s goal is to deliver expertise and a premier 
level of service while helping grow, manage and preserve 
wealth. As Citi partners with clients, it can provide global 
thinking informed by deep local insight and can help deliver 

the complete ˜nancial management strategies that today™s 
wealth requires.
Private Banker International
 awarded Citi Outstanding Global 
Bank in North America and Asia Paci˜c as well as Best 
Next-Generation Offering and Best Discretionary & Advisory 
Service Offering. 
Treasury and Trade Solutions
Citi™s Treasury and Trade Solutions (TTS) business provides 
integrated cash management and trade ˜nance services 

to multinational corporations, ˜nancial institutions and 
public sector organizations across the globe. With the 
industry™s most comprehensive suite of digital and mobile-
enabled platforms, tools and analytics, TTS leads the way 
in delivering innovative and tailored solutions to its clients. 
Offerings include cash management, payments, receivables, 
liquidity management and investment services, working 
capital solutions, commercial and prepaid card programs, 
 and trade ˜nance.
Because delivering the best possible client experience 

is the key driver of growth and share, TTS has focused 
its efforts on transforming the client experience based 
on the pillars of client advocacy, network management, 
client operations and customer service. Citi is delivering 
a seamless, end-to-end client experience through the 
development of its capabilities, client advocacy and service 
across the entire organization.
In 2014, Treasury and Trade Solutions launched Citi 
Integrated Payables Solutions
SM, a holistic suite of analytics, 
advisory and payment services that will assist organizations 
in optimizing working capital and maximizing ef˜ciency 
across their complete supply chain. 
TreasuryVision
® Liquidity Manager, a key component 
of Citi™s TreasuryVision Analytics toolkit that provides 
interactive balance visibility via the CitiDirect
® online 
banking platform, launched in 2014. This solution is another 

innovative service that complements Citi™s suite of global 
liquidity management solutions.
Citi also introduced Citi Working Capital Analytics, which 
is designed to support strategic decision making for a 
company™s treasury, procurement and shared service center 
organizations. The service combines diagnostic capabilities 
with innovative visualization technology and real-time 
interactive features to deliver enhanced visibility and insights 

across an organization™s complete supply chain.
For the second year, the Foreign Exchange Local Markets business 
continued its ﬁe for Educationﬂ initiative. The team™s efforts saw 

more than $4 million donated to six educational charities. 
Citi intermediates more than $3 trillion in ˜nancial, 

commercial and capital ˚ows daily and has 400 connections 

to cash and securities clearing systems around the world.
1313Investing in Communities
Citi and the Citi Foundation aim to drive economic progress 
through increasing ˜nancial inclusion, catalyzing job 
opportunities for youth, and reimagining approaches to 
building economically vibrant and inclusive cities. We enhance 
these efforts by leveraging industry-leading expertise and the 
talent of employees.
Increasing access to ˜nancial education and opportunities 
that help consumers adopt positive ˜nancial behaviors and 
build assets:
 In 2014, Citi™s long-standing partnership with the U.S. 
government™s Overseas Private Investment Corporation to 
provide ˜nancing to micro˜nance institutions recorded a 
major milestone with more than one million women micro-
entrepreneurs reached through the partnership.
 The Citi Foundation™s $1.95 million innovative grant program 

in India supports cutting-edge ˜nancial inclusion programs 
that improve consumer ˜nancial decision making while 
utilizing technology and behavioral insights to lower the 

cost of delivery and increasing impact.
Creating value for clients, 
stakeholders and communities 
 is at the heart of what Citi does.
Citi believes that innovative business endeavors, powerful 
public-private partnerships, the recruiting and supporting of 
a diverse workforce, and high-impact investments can enable 
progress and ˜nancial inclusion. Citi works across business 
lines and with governments, agencies and community partners 
on innovative programs that result in scalable impact.
Citi has been named to the Dow Jones Sustainability and 
FTSE4Good indices, which have tracked globally recognized 
corporate responsibility standards every year since 2001 
and 2002, respectively. In addition, The Civic 50 list Š which 

honors businesses for their commitment to improving the 
quality of life in communities where these companies do 
business Š recognized Citi for the third consecutive year as 
one of the U.S.™s most community-minded companies.
2014 Global Community Day Highlights
In the Philippines, volunteers cleaned up the beaches in Batangas,
 one of the country™s popular diving spots. More than 20 Citi 

employees collected trash underwater and along the shoreline.
Close to 40 Citi Bulgaria volunteers worked on the construction 

of a tortoise dwelling and safe breeding area as part of a habitat 

and wildlife conservation project in the Dragoman wetlands area.
70,000 Citi colleagues, alumni, family and friends volunteered on 1,200 service projects in 93 countries and 479 cities
14 In 2014, Citi and NBC News published 
Operation Money: 
 A Financial Guide for Military Service Members and 
Families
, a free e-book for veterans and their families by 
Jean Chatzky, bestselling author and ˜nancial editor of 
NBC™s ﬁTODAY.ﬂ 
Enabling young people to compete in a 21st century economy 

by building their employability skills:
 Citi and the Inter-American Development Bank designed 
and structured a $500 million, four-year Education, 
Youth and Employment (EYE) bond. An industry ˜rst, the 

EYE bond will invest in early childhood development and 
education and training programs across Latin America and 
the Caribbean.
 The Citi Foundation launched Pathways to Progress, a 

three-year, $50 million commitment to jump-start the career 
readiness of 100,000 low-income urban young adults in 
 10 U.S. cities (see page 4).
Supporting cities to improve municipal effectiveness and 

infrastructure and drive new economic opportunities for 
 
low-income residents:
 With the mayors of Chicago, Los Angeles and New York, Citi 
co-founded Cities for Citizenship to provide free legal and 
˜nancial counseling, naturalization test preparation and 
other assistance to eligible immigrants. The White House 
honored Citi as a Champion of Change for its leadership in 
˜nancial inclusion and immigrant integration.
 The Citi Foundation and Living Cities launched City 

Accelerator, a $3 million pilot initiative to enable nine U.S. 

municipalities to operate more effectively and generate 
economic opportunities for low-income communities. 
Sustainability
Citi™s sustainability activities drive innovation and establish 
best practices that help address challenges such as climate 
change and human rights. Stakeholder engagement and 
transparency have long been central to Citi™s sustainability 
efforts, which are built upon the following three key pillars:
 Environmental Finance:
 In 2014, three years ahead of plan, 
Citi reached its 10-year goal to invest $50 billion in activities 
that reduce the impacts of climate change and create 
environmental solutions that bene˜t people and communities.
 Environmental and Social Risk Management:
 We 
collaborate with clients to manage the environmental and 
social risks and impacts associated with clients™ products 
and services.
 Operations and Supply Chain:
 We manage our own global 

facilities and supply chain to minimize direct impact, reduce 
costs and re˚ect best practices.
Citi is undertaking these initiatives with a focus on driving 

sustainability, building sustainable cities, and empowering 

impacted people and communities. 
A Diverse Workforce
As a global bank, Citi needs a workforce as diverse as the 
clients and communities we serve. A diverse workforce 
stimulates new ideas and fresh ways of thinking and fosters 
the skills needed to be successful in a rapidly changing 
environment. It also helps us attract the best talent in the 
industry. Our people are at the heart of our work, and Citi 
remains committed to building a meritocracy in which 

everyone has the opportunity to succeed. 
Citi received a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation™s Corporate Equality Index for the 11th year in a row.
To learn more about Citizenship at Citi, please visit 
 http://citizenship.citigroup.com.
15˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜ˇ˘˜˚˛˝ˇ˘
˙
˙ˆˇ˘˙
˙˙


˙


‡—

…˙˙˙

–ƒˆ⁄—’‰˙˘
˙”
⁄‰˙ˆ˛˚˘–˛˝˙
‘•
˜––Šciti.com/progress
ˇ
ˇˇ


†˙˘ˇ

˙ˇ
˝ˇ
˝
•ˇ
˛˝‘
—˙‡ˇ˙˘ˆ

PROGRESS. 
NOW MEASURED 

BY THE GALLON.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇUNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWASHINGTON, D.C. 20549FORM 10-KANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014Commission file number 1-9924Citigroup Inc.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)52-1568099 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)399 Park Avenue, New York, NY (Address of principal executive offices)10022 (Zip code)(212) 559-1000 (Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.01Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: noneIndicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
 Yes
  No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data 
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes
  No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference 

in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting 

company. See the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes
  No The aggregate market value of Citigroup Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates of Citigroup Inc. on June 30, 2014 was approximately $142.6 billion.Number of shares of Citigroup Inc. common stock outstanding on January 31, 2015: 3,033,851,309Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant™s proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held 

on April 28, 2015, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.Available on the web at www.citigroup.com
2
FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX
Item Number
Page
Part I
1.
Business
 ........................
4-30
, 
33
, 
124-126,
129, 158,
301-302
1A.
Risk Factors
 .....................
 
54Œ65
1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments
 .........
Not Applicable
2.
Properties
 .......................
302
3.
Legal ProceedingsŠSee Note 28 
to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
 ..............
289-298
4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
 ............
Not Applicable
Part II
5.
Market for Registrant™s Common 
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, 
and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities
 .......................
 
138, 164,
 
303-304
6.
Selected Financial Data
 ............
9-10
7.
Management™s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations
 ..............
6-35
, 
68-123
7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative 
Disclosures About Market Risk
 ......
 
186Œ218
, 
226-282
8.
Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data
 ...............
134-300
9.
Changes in and Disagreements with 
Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure
 ...............
Not Applicable
9A.
Controls and Procedures
 ...........
127-128
9B.
Other Information
 .................
Not Applicable
Part III
10.
Directors, Executive Officers and 
Corporate Governance
 .............
305-306*
11.
Executive Compensation
 ...........
**
12.
Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters
 ....
***
13.
Certain Relationships and Related 
Transactions and Director 
Independence
 ....................
****
14.
Principal Accountant Fees and 
Services
 ........................
*****
Part IV
15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement 
Schedules
 .......................
˜
˙


˙

˜˜
˙
‚ˆ

˜˜˜
˙˙
˙

˜˜˜˜
˙‚


˜˜˜˜˜
˙•ˆ˙

68-123, 159-161,
3CITIGROUP™S 2014 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K OVERVIEW4MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS6Executive Summary
6Summary of Selected Financial Data
9SEGMENT AND BUSINESSŠINCOME (LOSS) AND REVENUES11CITICORP13Global Consumer Banking (GCB)
14North America GCB16EMEA GCB18Latin America GCB20Asia GCB22Institutional Clients Group
24Corporate/Other
28CITI HOLDINGS29BALANCE SHEET REVIEW31OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS34CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS35CAPITAL RESOURCES36Current Regulatory Capital Standards36Overview36Basel III Transition Arrangements
37Basel III (Full Implementation)46Supplementary Leverage Ratio51Regulatory Capital Standards Developments53Tangible Common Equity, Tangible Book Value Per Share
 and Book Value Per Share
53RISK FACTORS54Managing Global Risk Table of ContentsŠ
Credit, Market (Including Funding and Liquidity), Operational and Country and Cross-Border Risk Sections67MANAGING GLOBAL RISK68Overview68Citi™s Risk Management Organization
68Citi™s Compliance Organization
71SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES124DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES127MANAGEMENT™S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING128FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS129REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠINTERNAL 
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING130REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠ 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS131FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES TABLE OF CONTENTS133CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS134NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS141FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT300SUPERVISION, REGULATION AND OTHER301Supervision and Regulation301Competition301Properties302Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act302Unregistered Sales of Equity, Purchases of Equity 
Securities, Dividends303Performance Graph304CORPORATE INFORMATION305Citigroup Executive Officers305Citigroup Board of Directors3054OVERVIEWCitigroup™s history dates back to the founding of the City Bank of New York in 1812. Citigroup™s original corporate predecessor was incorporated in 1988 
under the laws of the State of Delaware. Following a series of transactions 
over a number of years, Citigroup Inc. was formed in 1998 upon the merger 
of Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc.Citigroup is a global diversified financial services holding company, whose 
businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions 
with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer 
banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, 
trade and securities services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 
200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 
countries and jurisdictions.At December 31, 2014, Citi had approximately 241,000 full-time employees, compared to approximately 251,000 full-time employees at 
December 31, 2013.Citigroup currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two primary business segments: Citicorp, consisting of Citi™s 
Global Consumer 
Banking businesses and Institutional Clients Group; and Citi Holdings, 
consisting of businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined 

are not central to its core Citicorp businesses. For a further description of the 
business segments and the products and services they provide, see ﬁCitigroup 
Segmentsﬂ below, ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ and Note 3 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Throughout this report, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and ﬁthe Companyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi™s website 
at www.citigroup.com
. Citigroup™s recent annual reports on Form 10-K, 

quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, proxy statements, as well as other filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available 
free of charge through Citi™s website by clicking on the ﬁInvestorsﬂ page and 

selecting ﬁAll SEC Filings.ﬂ The SEC™s website also contains current reports, 

information statements, and other information regarding Citi at www.sec.gov
.Certain reclassifications, including a realignment of certain businesses, have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements to conform to 
the current period™s presentation. For information on certain recent such 

reclassifications, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Please see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ below for a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that could impact 
Citigroup™s businesses, financial condition and results 

of operations.5As described above, Citigroup is managed pursuant to the following segments:CITIGROUP SEGMENTSGlobal ConsumerBanking* (GCB)InstitutionalClientsGroup* (ICG)Corporate/OtherNorth AmericaEMEA
Latin AmericaAsiaConsisting of:  Retail banking, local commercial banking and branch-based financial advisors-  Residential real estate
-  Asset management in Latin America  Citi-branded cards in all of the regions  Citi retail services in 
North AmericaBanking-  Investment banking-  Treasury and trade 

solutions-  Corporate lending- Private Bank Markets and securities 
services-  Fixed income 
markets-  Equity markets-  Securities services- Treasury
-  Operations and 

technology-  Global staff 
 functions and 
 other corporate 
expenses-  Discontinued 
operationsCiti Holdings*-  Consumer loans, 

including Consumer 
loans originated by Citi™s 
legacy CitiFinancial North 

America business-  Certain international 
consumer portfolios-  Certain portfolios of 
securities, loans and 
other assets-  Certain retail alternative 
investments Citicorp*   As previously announced, Citigroup intends to exit its consumer businesses in 11 markets and its consumer finance business in Korea in GCB and certain businesses in ICG. Effective in the first quarter of 2015, 
these businesses will be reported as part of Citi Holdings. For additional information, see ﬁExecutive Summary,ﬂ ﬁ
Global Consumer Bankingﬂ and ﬁ
Institutional Clients Groupﬂ below. Citi intends to release a 

revised Quarterly Financial Data Supplement reflecting this realignment prior to the release of its first quarter of 2015 earnings information.
The following are the four regions in which Citigroup operates. The regional results are fully reflected in the segment results above. 
North AmericaEurope, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)Latin AmericaAsiaCITIGROUP REGIONS(1)(1) North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, 
Latin America
 includes Mexico, and 
Asia includes Japan.
6MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSEXECUTIVE SUMMARYSteady Progress on Execution Priorities Despite Continued 
Challenging Operating Environment
As discussed further throughout this Form 10-K, Citi™s 2014 results reflected 
a continued challenging operating environment for Citi and its businesses in 
several respects, including:the impact of macroeconomic uncertainty on the markets, trading environment and customer activity, particularly during the latter part of 
the year;significant costs associated with legal settlements as Citi resolved 
its significant legacy legal issues and continued to work through its 
outstanding legal matters;uneven global economic growth; anda continued low interest rate environment.In addition, as part of its execution priorities to improve its efficiency and reduce expenses, Citi incurred higher repositioning costs during the year, 
which also impacted its 2014 results of operations.Despite these difficult decisions and challenges, Citi continued to make progress on its execution priorities in 2014, including:Efficient resource allocation and disciplined expense management: As noted above, Citi continued to take actions to simplify and streamline the 
organization as well as improve productivity. As part of these efforts, Citi 
announced strategic actions to exit its consumer businesses in certain 
international markets in Global Consumer Banking (GCB) and certain 
businesses in Institutional Clients Group (ICG) to focus on those markets 
and businesses where it believes it has the greatest scale, growth potential 
and ability to provide meaningful returns to its shareholders.Wind down of Citi Holdings: Citi continued to wind down Citi Holdings, 
including reducing its assets by $19 billion, or 16%, from year end 2013.Utilization of deferred tax assets (DTAs): Citi utilized approximately 
$3.3 billion in DTAs during 2014 (for additional information, see 
ﬁIncome Taxesﬂ below).While making progress on these initiatives in 2014, Citi expects the operating environment in 2015 to remain challenging. Regulatory changes and requirements continue to create uncertainties for Citi and its businesses. 
While the U.S. economy continues to improve, it remains susceptible to 
global events and volatility. The economic and fiscal situations of several 

European countries remain fragile, and geopolitical tensions in the region 
have added to the uncertainties. Although most emerging market economies continue to grow, growth has slowed in some markets and these economies 
are also susceptible to outside macroeconomic events and challenges. The 
frequency with which legal and regulatory proceedings are initiated against 
financial institutions, and the severity of the remedies sought in these 
proceedings, has increased substantially over the past several years, including 
2014. Financial institutions also remain a target for an increasing number 
of cybersecurity attacks. For a more detailed discussion of these and other risks that could impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial 

condition during 2015, see each respective business™ results of operations, 
ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ and ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ below.
While Citi may not be able to completely control these and other factors affecting its operating environment in 2015, it will remain focused on its 
execution priorities, as described above, and remains committed to achieving 
its 2015 financial targets for Citicorp™s operating efficiency ratio and 

Citigroup™s return on assets.
2014 Summary ResultsCitigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $7.3 billion or $2.20 per diluted share, 
compared to $13.7 billion or $4.35 per share in 2013. In 2014, Citi™s 
results included negative $390 million (negative $240 million after-tax) 
of CVA/DVA, compared to negative $342 million (negative $213 million 
after-tax) in 2013 (for additional information, including Citi™s adoption 
of funding valuation adjustments, or FVA, in 2014, see Note 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi™s results in 2014 also included 
a charge of $3.8 billion ($3.7 billion after-tax) related to the mortgage 
settlement announced in July 2014 regarding certain of Citi™s legacy 
residential mortgage-backed securities and CDO activities, recorded in Citi 
Holdings. Results in 2014 further included a tax charge of approximately 
$210 million related to corporate tax reforms enacted in two states, compared 
to a tax benefit of $176 million in 2013 related to the resolution of certain 
tax audit items, both recorded in Corporate/Other. In addition, Citi™s 2013 
results included a net fraud loss in Mexico of $360 million ($235 million 
after-tax) recorded in ICG, and a $189 million after-tax benefit related to the 
divestiture of Credicard, Citi™s non-Citibank branded cards and consumer 
finance business in Brazil (Credicard), recorded in Corporate/Other.Excluding these items, Citi reported net income of $11.5 billion in 2014, or $3.55 per diluted share, compared to $13.8 billion, or $4.37 per share, in 
the prior year. The 16% decrease from 2013 was driven by higher expenses, 

a lower net loan loss reserve release and a higher effective tax rate due 
primarily to non-deductible legal and related expenses incurred during the 
year (for additional information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), partially offset by increased revenues in Citi Holdings and a 
decline in net credit losses. (Citi™s results of operations excluding the impacts 

of CVA/DVA, the mortgage settlement, the tax items, the net fraud loss and 

the Credicard divestiture are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the 
presentation of its results of operations excluding these impacts provides a 
more meaningful depiction for investors of the underlying fundamentals of 
its businesses.)Citi™s revenues, net of interest expense, were $76.9 billion in 2014, up 1% 
versus the prior year. Excluding CVA/DVA, revenues were $77.3 billion, also up 

1% from 2013, as revenues rose 28% in Citi Holdings, partially offset by a 1% 
decline in Citicorp. Net interest revenues of $48.0 billion were 3% higher than 
2013, mostly driven by lower funding costs. Excluding CVA/DVA, non-interest 

revenues were $29.3 billion, down 2% from 2013, driven by lower revenues in 
ICG and GCB in Citicorp, partially offset by higher non-interest revenues in 
Citi Holdings.7ExpensesCitigroup expenses increased 14% versus 2013 to $55.1 billion. Excluding 
the impact of the mortgage settlement in 2014 and the net fraud loss in 
2013, operating expenses increased 7% versus the prior year to $51.3 billion 
driven by higher legal and related expenses ($5.8 billion compared to 
$3.0 billion in the prior year) and repositioning costs ($1.6 billion compared 
to $590 million in the prior year).Excluding the legal and related expenses, net fraud loss in 2013, repositioning charges and the impact of foreign exchange translation into 
U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX translation), which lowered reported 
expenses by approximately $503 million in 2014 compared to 2013, expenses 
were roughly unchanged at $43.9 billion as repositioning savings, expense 
reductions in Citi Holdings and other productivity initiatives were fully offset 
by the impact of higher regulatory and compliance and volume-related 
costs. (Citi™s results of operations excluding the impact of legal and related 

expenses, repositioning charges and FX translation are non-GAAP financial 
measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations excluding 
these impacts provides a more meaningful depiction for investors of the 
underlying fundamentals of its businesses.)Excluding the impact of the net fraud loss in 2013, Citicorp™s expenses 
were $47.3 billion, up 12% from the prior year, primarily reflecting higher 

legal and related expenses, largely in Corporate/Other ($4.8 billion 
compared to $432 million in 2013), higher repositioning costs ($1.6 billion 
compared to $547 million in 2013), higher regulatory and compliance 
costs and higher volume-related costs, partially offset by efficiency savings. 
Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement in 2014, Citi Holdings™ 
expenses were $4.0 billion, down 34% from 2013, reflecting lower legal and 
related expenses as well as the ongoing decline in Citi Holdings™ assets.Credit Costs and Allowance for Loan LossesCiti™s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims of 
$7.5 billion declined 12% from 2013. Excluding the impact of the mortgage 
settlement in 2014, total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and 
claims declined 13% to $7.4 billion versus the prior year. Net credit losses 
of $9.0 billion were down 14% versus the prior year. Consumer net credit 
losses declined 15% to $8.7 billion, reflecting continued improvements in 
the North America mortgage portfolio within Citi Holdings, as well as North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services in Citicorp. Corporate 
net credit losses increased 43% to $288 million in 2014. Corporate net credit 
losses in 2014 included approximately $113 million of incremental net 
credit losses related to the Pemex supplier program in Mexico (for additional 
information regarding the Pemex supplier program, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below).The net release of allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments was $2.3 billion in 2014. Excluding the impact of the 
mortgage settlement in 2014, the net release of allowance for loan losses 
and unfunded lending commitments was $2.4 billion in 2014 compared 
to a $2.8 billion release in the prior year. Citicorp™s net reserve release 

increased to $1.4 billion from $736 million in 2013 due to higher reserve 
releases in North America GCB and ICG, reflecting improved credit trends. Citi Holdings™ net reserve release, excluding the impact of the mortgage 
settlement in 2014, decreased 53% to $958 million, primarily due to lower 
releases related to the North America mortgage portfolio (which also had 
lower net credit losses).Citigroup™s total allowance for loan losses was $16.0 billion at year end, or 
2.50% of total loans, compared to $19.6 billion, or 2.97%, at the end of 2013. 
The decline in the total allowance for loan losses reflected the continued 
wind down of Citi Holdings and overall continued improvement in the credit 
quality of Citi™s loan portfolios. The consumer allowance for loan losses 

was $13.6 billion, or 3.68% of total consumer loans, at year end, compared 
to $17.1 billion, or 4.34% of total loans, at the end of 2013. The consumer 
90+ days past due delinquencies were $4.6 billion, or 1.27% of consumer 
loans, at year end, a decline from $5.7 billion or 1.49% of loans in the prior 
year. Total non-accrual assets fell to $7.4 billion, a 22% reduction compared 

to 2013. Corporate non-accrual loans declined 38% to $1.2 billion, while 
Consumer non-accrual loans declined 17% to $5.9 billion, both reflecting the 
continued improvement in credit trends.CapitalDespite the challenging operating environment and elevated legal and 
related expenses during 2014, Citi was able to maintain its regulatory 
capital, primarily through net income and the further reduction of its DTAs. 
Citigroup™s Basel III Tier 1 Capital and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratios, 
on a fully implemented basis, were 11.5% and 10.6% as of December 31, 
2014, respectively, compared to 11.3% and 10.6% as of December 31, 2013 
(all based on the Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted 
assets). Citigroup™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio as 
of December 31, 2014 was 6.0% compared to 5.4% as of December 31, 
2013, each based on the revised final U.S. Basel III rules. For additional 
information on Citi™s capital ratios and related components, see ﬁCapital 
Resourcesﬂ below.CiticorpCiticorp net income decreased 32% from the prior year to $10.7 billion. 
CVA/DVA, recorded in ICG, was negative $343 million (negative $211 million 
after-tax) in 2014, compared to negative $345 million (negative 
$214 million after-tax) in the prior year (for a summary of CVA/DVA by 
business within ICG, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below).Excluding CVA/DVA as well as the impact of the net fraud loss in Mexico, 
the tax items and the divestiture of Credicard noted above, Citicorp™s net 

income was $11.1 billion, down 29% from the prior year, as higher expenses, 

a higher effective tax rate and lower revenues were partially offset by 
continued improvement in credit costs.Citicorp revenues, net of interest expense, decreased 1% from the prior year to $71.1 billion. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citicorp revenues were $71.4 billion 

in 2014, also down 1% from the prior year. 
GCB revenues of $37.8 billion 
decreased 1% versus the prior year. 
North America GCB revenues declined 1% to $19.6 billion driven by lower retail banking revenues, partially offset 
by higher revenues in Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. Retail 
banking revenues declined 9% to $4.9 billion versus the prior year, primarily 

reflecting lower mortgage origination revenues and spread compression in 8the deposits portfolios, partially offset by volume-related growth and gains from branch sales during the year. Citi-branded cards revenues of $8.3 billion 

were up 1% versus the prior year as purchase sales grew and an improvement 
in spreads driven by a reduction in promotional rate balances mostly offset 
the impact of lower average loans. Citi retail services revenues increased 
4% to $6.5 billion, mainly reflecting the impact of the Best Buy portfolio 
acquisition in September 2013, partially offset by continued declines in fee 
revenues primarily reflecting higher yields and improving credit and the 
resulting increase in contractual partner payments. North America GCB average deposits of $171 billion grew 3% year-over-year and average retail 

loans of $46 billion grew 9%. Average card loans of $110 billion increased 

2%, and purchase sales of $252 billion increased 5% versus the prior year. For 

additional information on the results of operations of North America GCB for 2014, see ﬁGlobal Consumer BankingŠNorth America GCBﬂ below.
International GCB revenues (consisting of EMEA GCB, Latin America GCB and Asia GCB) decreased 2% versus the prior year to $18.1 billion. 
Excluding the impact of FX translation, international GCB revenues rose 2% from the prior year, driven by 4% growth in 
Latin America GCB and 
1% growth in Asia GCB, partially offset by a 1% decline in EMEA GCB (for 
the impact of FX translation on 2014 results of operations for each of EMEA GCB, Latin America GCB and Asia GCB, see the table accompanying 
the discussion of each respective business™ results of operations below). 
The growth in international GCB revenues, excluding the impact of FX 
translation, mainly reflected volume growth in all regions, partially offset 
by spread compression, the ongoing impact of regulatory changes and the 
repositioning of Citi™s franchise in Korea, as well as market exits in 
EMEA 
GCB in 2013. For additional information on the results of operations of 
EMEA GCB, Latin America GCB and Asia GCB for 2014, see ﬁGlobal 
Consumer Bankingﬂ below. Year-over-year, international 
GCB average 
deposits increased 2%, average retail loans increased 7%, investment sales 
increased 8%, average card loans increased 2% and card purchase sales 
increased 5%, all excluding the impact of Credicard™s results in the prior year 

period and FX translation.ICG revenues were $33.3 billion in 2014, down 1% from the prior year. 
Excluding CVA/DVA, 
ICG revenues were $33.6 billion, also down 1% from 
the prior year. 
Banking revenues of $17.0 billion, excluding CVA/DVA and 

the impact of mark-to-market gains/(losses) on hedges related to accrual 
loans within corporate lending (see below), increased 5% from the prior year, 

primarily reflecting growth in investment banking, corporate lending and 
private bank revenues. Investment banking revenues increased 7% versus the 
prior year, driven by an 11% increase in advisory revenues to $949 million 

and an 18% increase in equity underwriting to $1.2 billion. Debt 
underwriting revenues of $2.5 billion were largely unchanged from 2013. 
Private bank revenues, excluding CVA/DVA, increased 7% to $2.7 billion from 

the prior year, driven by increased client volumes and growth in investment 

and capital markets products, partially offset by spread compression. 
Corporate lending revenues rose 52% to $1.9 billion, including $116 million 
of mark-to-market gains on hedges related to accrual loans compared to a 
$287 million loss in the prior year. Excluding the mark-to-market impact on 

hedges related to accrual loans in both periods, corporate lending revenues rose 15% versus the prior year to $1.7 billion, primarily reflecting growth 
in average loans and improved funding costs. Treasury and trade solutions 

revenues increased by 1% versus the prior year to $7.9 billion as volume and 
fee growth was largely offset by the impact of spread compression globally.
Markets and securities services revenues of $16.5 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, decreased 8% from the prior year. Fixed income markets 

revenues of $11.8 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, decreased 11% from the 

prior year, reflecting weakness across rates and currencies, credit markets 

and municipals due to challenging trading conditions, partially offset by 
increased securitized products and commodities revenues. The first half of 
2013 included a strong performance in rates and currencies, driven in part 
by the impact of quantitative easing globally. Equity markets revenues of 

$2.8 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, declined 1% versus the prior year, mostly 

reflecting weakness in cash equities in EMEA driven by volatility in Europe, 
partially offset by strength in prime finance. Securities services revenues of 
$2.3 billion increased 3% versus the prior year primarily due to increased 
volumes, assets under custody and overall client activity. For additional 

information on the results of operations of ICG for 2014, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below.
Corporate/Other revenues decreased to $47 million from $121 million in the prior year, driven mainly by lower revenues from sales of 

available-for-sale securities as well as hedging activities. For additional 

information on the results of operations of Corporate/Other in 2014, see ﬁCorporate/Otherﬂ below.
Citicorp end-of-period loans were roughly unchanged at $572 billion, with 1% growth in corporate loans offset by a 2% decline in consumer loans. 
Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citicorp loans grew 3%, with 4% 
growth in corporate loans and 2% growth in consumer loans.Citi HoldingsCiti Holdings™ net loss was $3.4 billion in 2014 compared to a net loss 
of $1.9 billion in 2013. CVA/DVA was negative $47 million (negative 
$29 million after-tax) in 2014, compared to positive $3 million (positive 
$1 million after-tax) in the prior year. Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA 
and the mortgage settlement in 2014, Citi Holdings™ net income was 
$385 million, reflecting lower expenses, higher revenues and lower net credit 
losses, partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve release.Citi Holdings™ revenues increased 27% to $5.8 billion from the prior year. 
Excluding CVA/DVA, Citi Holdings™ revenues increased 28% to $5.9 billion 

from the prior year. Net interest revenues increased 11% year-over-year to 

$3.5 billion, largely driven by lower funding costs. Non-interest revenues, 
excluding CVA/DVA, increased 68% to $2.3 billion from the prior year, 

primarily driven by higher gains on assets sales and the absence of 
repurchase reserve builds for representation and warranty claims in 2014. For 
additional information on the results of operations of Citi Holdings in 2014, 
see ﬁCiti Holdingsﬂ below.
Citi Holdings™ assets were $98 billion, 16% below the prior year, and 
represented approximately 5% of Citi™s total GAAP assets and 14% of its 

risk-weighted assets under Basel III as of year end (based on the Advanced 
Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets).9RESULTS OF OPERATIONSSUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAŠPAGE 1In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts and ratios
2014$47,993ŠŠŠŠ28,889Revenues, net of interest expense
$76,882ŠŠŠŠ
55,051
7,467Income from continuing operations before income taxes$14,364ŠŠŠŠ6,864ŸIncome from continuing operations$7,500ŠŠŠŠIncome (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes 
(1)(2)‹Ÿ−“‰›‘†›‘Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,498ŠŠŠŠ
185‹‹ŸCitigroup™s net income
$7,313ŠŠŠŠ$511ŠŠ‹†Š‹†ŠŽ
˙˙
˙ˆ
111‹†ŁŽ−Income allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for basic EPS$6,691ŠŠŠŠ
˙
˙˙
˙
ˆ
Š‹Income allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for diluted EPS$6,691ŠŠŠŠEarnings per shareBasic
$2.21Š™„‹ŸŠ‹„‰ŁŠŠŁ„†™2.21™„Ł‰Ł„ŸŁŁ„†‰Diluted
$2.20Š™„‹†Š‹„™†ŠŁ„†−ŠŁ„‰Ł2.20™„Ł‰‹„™™Ł„†ŁŁ„‰™Dividends declared per common share
0.04−„−™−„−™−„−Ł”‚ˆ

„Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
10SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAŠPAGE 2In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2014At December 31:‚
$1,842,530ŠŠŠŠ‚
“‹‘899,332223,080
200,066‚
210,534
(in thousands)241‹‰Ž‹††‹†−Performance metrics

0.39%−„ŸŁ−„ŁŽ−„‰‰−„‰Ł
“Ł‘3.4Ÿ„−†„Ł†„›
“Ł‘3.5†„Ž†„Ł†„›
72†ŁŸ‹†‰‰‰Basel III ratios - full implementation‚
“™‘10.58%›„Ÿ™Œ¡—Œ¡—‚
“™‘11.47Ž„−‰Œ¡—Œ¡—‚
“™‘12.81Œ¡—Œ¡—
“‰‘5.96‰„™ŁŒ¡—Œ¡—Œ¡—
10.86%Ž„™Ÿ›„‰‹‚
11.43Ž„™Ž›„‰™
“†‘1.8−„Ž−„›Œ–$66.16Š†‰„‹ŁŠŠ†−„Ÿ−Š•ˆ
1.98x‡‡‡‡˙
“‹‘˙˛˝
Other liabilities
‘˙ˆ
Asia GCB

“Ł‘˙…˙ˆ„˙
…˙ˆ„
“™‘˙
„
“‰‘˙‚‚˙

…˙ˆ
ı
ı‚

„
“†‘˙
Œ¡—˙„
Œ–˙Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
11SEGMENT AND BUSINESSŠINCOME (LOSS) AND REVENUESThe following tables show the income (loss) and revenues for Citigroup on a segment and business view:CITIGROUP INCOMEIn millions of dollars2014% Change  2014 vs. 2013
˙
Income (loss) from continuing operationsCITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$4,421ŠŠ13%EMEA(7)Ł‰‘NMŒ–Latin America
1,204(10)“Ł‘Asia1,320(11)‘Total
$6,938ŠŠ3%Institutional Clients GroupNorth America$3,896ŠŠ24%ŽŸEMEA1,984(18)‘Latin America
1,337(18)‘Asia2,3044Total
$9,521ŠŠ1%‹−Corporate/Other$(5,593)Š“†Ł−‘Š‘NM™−Total Citicorp
$10,866ŠŠ(30)%›Citi Holdings$(3,366)Š‘Š‘(76)%Income from continuing operations$7,500ŠŠ(45)%Ÿ™Discontinued operations$(2)Š‹Ÿ−Š“‰›‘NMŒ–Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests185‹‹Ÿ(19)%™Citigroup™s net income
$7,313ŠŠ(47)%Œ–˙12CITIGROUP REVENUESIn millions of dollars2014% Change  2014 vs. 2013
˙
CITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$19,645ŠŠ(1)%“†EMEA1,358(6)“‹‘Latin America
9,204(1)ŸAsia7,546(1)“™‘Total
$37,753ŠŠ(1)%“‹Institutional Clients GroupNorth America$12,345ŠŠ8%‹›EMEA9,513(5)”Latin America
4,237(10)”Asia7,172(3)™Total
$33,267ŠŠ(1)%ŽCorporate/Other$47ŠŠ(61)%“‰Total Citicorp
$71,067ŠŠ(1)%ŁCiti Holdings$5,815ŠŠ“›−‰‘27%Œ–Total Citigroup net revenues
$76,882ŠŠ1%Œ–˙13CITICORPCiticorp is Citigroup™s global bank for consumers and businesses and represents Citi™s core franchises. Citicorp is focused on providing best-in-class products and services to customers and leveraging Citigroup™s unparalleled global network, including many of the world™s emerging economies. Citicorp is physically present 
in approximately 100 countries, many for over 100 years, and offers services in over 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi believes this global network provides 
a strong foundation for servicing the broad financial services needs of its large multinational clients and for meeting the needs of retail, private banking, 
commercial, public sector and institutional clients around the world.Citicorp consists of the following operating businesses: Global Consumer Banking (which consists of consumer banking in North America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia) and Institutional Clients Group (which includes Banking and Markets and securities services). Citicorp also includes Corporate/Other. 
At December 31, 2014, Citicorp had $1.7 trillion of assets and $889 billion of deposits, representing 95% of Citi™s total assets and 99% of Citi™s total 

deposits, respectively.
In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2014% Change 2014 vs. 2013
˙
$44,452ŠŠ2%26,615(6)ŽTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$71,067ŠŠ(1)%ŁProvisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$7,327ŠŠ(1)%
(1,252)“›‹†‘‘(52)†Ł
$6,075ŠŠ(7)%†
199‹Ł†(6)‘
(152)Ž−™−NMŒ–‚
$6,122ŠŠ(11)%ŸTotal operating expenses
$47,336ŠŠ12%“‰Income from continuing operations before taxes$17,609ŠŠ(22)%‹−6,743(4)‰ŽIncome from continuing operations$10,866ŠŠ(30)%›
(2)‹Ÿ−“‰›‘NMŒ–181(14)“‹‘Net income$10,683ŠŠ(32)%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)Total end-of-period (EOP) assets
$1,745ŠŠ(1)%Ł—
1,7882‹
0.60%−„›Ž−„›‹Efficiency ratio (Operating expenses/Total revenues)
67‰Ž†™Total EOP loans
$572Š‰ŸŁŠ‰™−Š†Total EOP deposits
889ŽŁ‹›†Ł(5)›Œ–˙14GLOBAL CONSUMER BANKINGGlobal Consumer Banking (GCB) consists of Citigroup™s four geographical consumer banking businesses that provide traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, commercial banking, Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services (for additional information on these businesses, see 
ﬁCitigroup Segmentsﬂ above). GCB is a globally diversified business with 3,280 branches in 35 countries around the world as of December 31, 2014. For the year 
ended December 31, 2014, GCB had $399 billion of average assets and $331 billion of average deposits.GCB™s overall strategy is to leverage Citi™s global footprint and seek to be the preeminent bank for the emerging affluent and affluent consumers in large 
urban centers. In credit cards and in certain retail markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments and geographies.Consistent with its strategy to continue to optimize its branch footprint and further concentrate its presence in major metropolitan areas, during 2014, Citi announced that it intends to exit its consumer businesses in the following markets: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Panama and Peru (in 

Latin America); Japan, Guam and its consumer finance business in Korea (in Asia); and the Czech Republic, Egypt and Hungary (in EMEA). Citi expects to substantially complete its exit from these businesses by the end of 2015. These consumer businesses, consisting of $28 billion of assets, $7 billion of consumer 
loans and $3 billion of deposits (excluding approximately $21 billion of deposits reclassified to held-for-sale as a result of Citi™s agreement in December 2014 

to sell its Japan retail banking business) as of December 31, 2014, contributed approximately $1.6 billion of revenues, $1.4 billion of expenses and a net loss of 
$40 million in 2014, with the loss primarily attributable to repositioning and other actions directly related to the exit plans. These businesses will be reported as 
part of Citi Holdings beginning in the first quarter of 2015. For additional information, see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ above and ﬁLatin America GCBﬂ and ﬁAsia GCBﬂ below.
In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$28,9101%˙8,843(7)†Total revenues, net of interest expense
$37,753(1)%†˙“
$21,277Š%†˙$7,051(2)%†˙
(1,162)††(74)
(23)NM
199˜˛˜(6)†
$6,065(11)%˛˚˙
$10,4112%†˙3,4731†Income from continuing operations$6,9383%†˙26˝53Net income$6,9122%†˙Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)⁄
$3991%˜˙
1.73%˙˙›…
56“
$396(2)⁄
331˝˜˜1˜
2.37%˙˙Revenue by business$16,354(3)%†˙21,3991˛Total
$37,753(1)%†˙Income from continuing operations by business$1,776(7)%†˙5,1626˛Total
$6,9383%†˙“
15Foreign currency (FX) translation impact
“
$37,753(1)%†˙
Š††“
$37,7531%†˙“
$21,277Š%†˙
Š††“
$21,2772%†˙“
$6,065(11)%˛˚˙
Š††“
$6,065(9)%˛˛˙$6,9122%†˙
Š††$6,9124%†˙ˆ
ˆ
ˆ16NORTH AMERICA GCBNorth America GCB provides traditional banking and Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses in the U.S. North America GCB™s 849 retail bank branches as of December 31, 2014 are largely concentrated in the greater metropolitan areas of New York, Chicago, 
Miami, Washington, D.C., Boston, Los Angeles and San Francisco.At December 31, 2014, North America GCB had approximately 11.7 million retail banking customer accounts, $46.8 billion of retail banking loans and $171.4 billion of deposits. In addition, North America GCB had approximately 111.7 million Citi-branded and Citi retail services credit card accounts, with $114.0 billion in outstanding card loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$17,2003%˛˙2,445(22)†Total revenues, net of interest expense
$19,645(1)%†˙“
$9,676(2)%†˙$4,203(9)%†˙
(1,241)††(20)
41(32)†
(8)˛NM
$2,995(18)%˙
$6,97411%†˙2,5539†Income from continuing operations$4,42113%†˙(1)˜˛NM˛˚˚Net income$4,42213%†˙Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)⁄
$1782%˜˙
2.48%˙˙›…
49⁄
$170.73
2.69%˙˙Revenue by business$4,901(9)%†˙8,2821
6,4624˝Total
$19,645(1)%†˙Income from continuing operations by business$349(15)%†˙2,40224†
1,6707Total
$4,42113%†˙ˆ172014 vs. 2013Net income increased by 13% due to lower net credit losses, higher loan loss reserve releases and lower expenses, partially offset by lower revenues.Revenues decreased 1%, with lower revenues in retail banking, partially offset by higher revenues in Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. 
Net interest revenue increased 3% primarily due to an increase in average 
loans in Citi retail services driven by the Best Buy portfolio acquisition in 
September 2013 and continued volume growth in retail banking, which 
more than offset lower average loans in Citi-branded cards. Non-interest 
revenue decreased 22%, driven by lower mortgage origination revenues due 
to significantly lower U.S. mortgage refinancing activity and a continued 
decline in revenues in Citi retail services, primarily reflecting improving 
credit and the resulting impact on contractual partner payments, partially 
offset by a 5% increase in total card purchase sales to $252 billion and gains 
during the year from branch sales (approximately $130 million).Retail banking revenues of $4.9 billion decreased 9% due to the lower mortgage origination revenues and spread compression in the deposit 
portfolios, which began to abate during the latter part of the year, partially 

offset by continued volume-related growth and the gains from branch sales. 
Consistent with GCB™s strategy, during 2014, 
NA GCB closed or sold over 
130 branches (a 14% decline from the prior year), with announced plans 
to sell or close an additional 60 branches in early 2015. Average loans of 

$46 billion increased 9% and average deposits of $171 billion increased 3%.Cards revenues increased 2% as average loans of $110 billion increased 3% versus 2013. In Citi-branded cards, revenues increased 1% as a 4% 
increase in purchase sales and higher net interest spreads, driven by the 
continued reduction of promotional balances in the portfolio, mostly offset 
lower average loans (3% decline from 2013). The decline in average loans 
was driven primarily by the reduction in promotional balances, and to a 
lesser extent, increased customer payment rates during the year. In addition, 

while the business experienced modest full rate loan growth during 2014, 
growth in full rate loan balances began to slow during the latter part of the 
year. Combined with the continued reduction in promotional balances, 
NA GCB could experience pressure on full rate loan growth during 2015.Citi retail services revenues increased 4% primarily due to a 12% increase in average loans driven by the Best Buy acquisition, partially offset by 
continued declines in fee revenues primarily reflecting higher yields and 
improving credit and the resulting increase in contractual partner payments. 
Citi retail services revenues also benefited from lower funding costs, partially 
offset by a decline in net interest spreads due to a higher percentage of 
promotional balances within the portfolio. Purchase sales in Citi retail 
services increased 7% from 2013, driven by the acquisition of the Best 
Buy portfolio.With respect to both cards portfolios, as widely publicized, U.S. gas prices declined during 2014, particularly in the fourth quarter. The decline in 

gas prices has negatively impacted purchase sales in the fuel portfolios, 
particularly in Citi retail services, and consumer savings from lower gas 
prices may not result in higher spending in other spend categories. NA GCB will continue to monitor trends in this area going into 2015.Expenses decreased 2% as ongoing cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by higher repositioning charges, increased investment 
spending and an increase in Citi retail services expenses due to the impact 
of the Best Buy portfolio acquisition. Cost reduction initiatives included 
the ongoing repositioning of the mortgage business due to the decline in 
mortgage refinancing activity, as well as continued rationalization of the 

branch footprint, including reducing the number of overall branches, as 
discussed above.Provisions decreased 18% due to lower net credit losses (9%) and higher loan loss reserve releases (21%). Net credit losses declined in Citi-branded 
cards (down 14% to $2.2 billion) and in Citi retail services (down 2% to 
$1.9 billion). The loan loss reserve release increased to $1.2 billion due to the 
continued improvement in Citi-branded cards, partially offset by a lower loan 
loss reserve release in Citi retail services due to reserve builds for new loans 
originated in the Best Buy portfolio. Given the improvement in credit within 
the cards portfolios during 2014, NA GCB would not expect to see similar 
levels of loan loss reserve releases in 2015.2013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 14%, mainly driven by lower revenues and lower loan 
loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses and expenses.Revenues decreased 6% primarily due to lower retail banking revenues. The decline in retail banking revenues was primarily due to lower mortgage 
origination revenues driven by the significantly lower U.S. mortgage 
refinancing activity and ongoing spread compression in the deposit 
portfolios, partially offset by growth in average deposits, average commercial 
loans and average retail loans.Cards revenues increased 1%. In Citi-branded cards, revenues were unchanged as continued improvement in net interest spreads, reflecting 
higher yields as promotional balances represented a smaller percentage of 
the portfolio total as well as lower funding costs, were offset by a decline in 
average loans. Citi retail services revenues increased 3% primarily due to the 
acquisition of the Best Buy portfolio, partially offset by improving credit and 
the resulting impact on contractual partner payments.Expenses decreased 3%, primarily due to lower legal and related costs and repositioning savings, partially offset by higher mortgage origination costs 
and expenses in cards as a result of the Best Buy portfolio acquisition.Provisions increased 7%, as lower net credit losses in the Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios were offset by lower loan loss reserve 
releases ($1.0 billion in 2013 compared to $2.4 billion in 2012), primarily 
related to cards, as well as reserve builds for new loans originated in the Best 
Buy portfolio.18EMEA GCBEMEA GCB provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East. The countries in which EMEA GCB has the largest presence are Poland, Russia and the United Arab Emirates.At December 31, 2014, EMEA GCB had 137 retail bank branches with approximately 3.1 million retail banking customer accounts, $5.4 billion in retail banking loans, $12.8 billion in deposits, and 2.0 million Citi-branded card accounts with $2.2 billion in outstanding card loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$899(5)%†˙459(8)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$1,358(6)%†˙“
$1,283(6)%†˙$61(10)%†˙
24††NM
2†100˛˚˚
$8774%†˙
$(12)†NM(5)†NMIncome (loss) from continuing operations$(7)†NM20˛˛82%Net income (loss)$(27)†NMBalance Sheet dataˆ(in billions of dollars)⁄
$10˛˚Š%˛˛˙
(0.27)%˙†˙›…
94⁄
$13.14
0.75%˙˙Revenue by business$844(3)%†˙514(12)†Total
$1,358(6)%†˙Income (loss) from continuing operations by business$(30)††29%˙23(70)Total
$(7)†NMForeign currency (FX) translation impact
“
$1,358(6)%†˙
Š††“
$1,358(1)%†˙“
$1,283(6)%†˙
Š††“
$1,283(1)%†˙
$8774%†
Š††
$8798%†˙$(27)†NM
Š$(27)˝˛†NMˆ
ˆ19The discussion of the results of operations for EMEA GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of EMEA GCB™s results 
excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of certain 
of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2014 vs. 2013Net income declined $58 million to a net loss of $27 million as higher credit 
costs and lower revenues were partially offset by lower expenses.Revenues decreased 1%, driven by lower revenues resulting from the sales of Citi™s consumer operations in Turkey and Romania during 2013, 

spread compression and the absence of the prior-year gain related to the 

Turkey sale, largely offset by volume growth. Net interest revenue was roughly 

unchanged as spread compression was offset by growth in average retail 
loans. Non-interest revenue decreased 4%, mainly reflecting lower revenues 
due to the sales of the consumer operations in Turkey and Romania, partially 

offset by higher investment fees due to increased sales of higher spread 
investment products.Retail banking revenues increased 2%, primarily due to increases in investment sales (3%), average deposits (5%) and average retail loans (11%), 
partially offset by the impact of the sales of the consumer operations in 
Turkey and Romania. Cards revenues declined 6%, primarily due to spread 

compression, interest rate caps, particularly in Poland, and the impact of 
the sales of the consumer operations in Turkey and Romania. Continued 

regulatory changes, including caps on interchange rates in Poland, and 
spread compression will likely continue to negatively impact revenues in 
EMEA GCB in 2015.Expenses decreased 1%, primarily due to the impact of the sales of the consumer operations in Turkey and Romania and efficiency savings, which 

were largely offset by higher repositioning charges, continued investment 
spending on new internal operating platforms and volume-related expenses.Provisions increased 98% to $87 million driven by a loan loss reserve build mainly related to Citi™s consumer business in Russia due to the ongoing 

economic situation in Russia (as discussed below), partially offset by a 1% 
decline in net credit losses.Russia
Citi™s ability to grow its consumer business in Russia has been negatively 
impacted by actions Citi has taken to mitigate its risks and exposures in 
response to the ongoing political instability, such as limiting its exposure 
to additional credit risk. In addition, the ongoing economic situation in 
Russia, coupled with consumer overleveraging in the market, has negatively 
impacted consumer credit, particularly delinquencies in the Russian card 
and personal installment loan portfolios (which totaled $1.2 billion as of 
December 31, 2014, or 0.4% of total GCB loans), and Citi currently expects 
these trends could continue into 2015. Citi has taken these trends into 
consideration in determining its allowance for loan loss reserves. Any further 
actions Citi may take to mitigate its exposures or risks, or the imposition 
of additional sanctions (such as asset freezes) involving Russia or against 
Russian entities, business sectors, individuals or otherwise, could further 
negatively impact the results of operations of EMEA GCB. For additional information on Citi™s exposures in Russia, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠ
Country and Cross-Border Riskﬂ below.2013 vs. 2012Net income of $31 million compared to a net loss of $56 million in 2012 
as lower expenses and lower net credit losses were partially offset by lower 
revenues, primarily due to the impact of the sales of Citi™s consumer 
operations in Turkey and Romania.Revenues decreased 2%, mainly driven by the lower revenues resulting from the sales of the consumer operations in Turkey and Romania, 

partially offset by higher volumes in core markets and a gain related to the 
Turkey sale.
Retail banking revenues decreased 1%, driven by the sales of the consumer operations in Turkey and Romania, partially offset by increases in average 

deposits (1%) and average retail loans (13%) as well as the gain related 
to the Turkey sale. Cards revenues declined 4%, primarily due to spread 

compression and interest rate caps, particularly in Poland, and an 8% 
decrease in average cards loans, primarily due to the sales of the consumer 
operations in Turkey and Romania.
Expenses declined 6%, primarily due to repositioning savings as well as lower repositioning charges, partially offset by higher volume-
related expenses and continued investment spending on new internal 
operating platforms.Provisions declined 53% due to a 37% decrease in net credit losses largely resulting from the impact of the sales of the consumer operations in Turkey 

and Romania and a net credit recovery in the second quarter 2013.20LATIN AMERICA GCBLatin America GCB provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, with the largest presence in Mexico and Brazil. Latin America GCB includes branch networks throughout Latin America as well as Banco Nacional de Mexico, or Banamex, Mexico™s 
second-largest bank, with 1,542 branches as of December 31, 2014. As previously announced, in the fourth quarter of 2014, Citi entered into an agreement to 
sell its consumer business in Peru (for additional information, see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ and ﬁGlobal Consumer Bankingﬂ above).At December 31, 2014, Latin America GCB had 1,829 retail branches, with approximately 31.5 million retail banking customer accounts, $27.7 billion in retail banking loans and $45.5 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 8.8 million Citi-branded card accounts with $10.9 billion in 
outstanding loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$6,230(1)%˙2,974(2)˛˜Total revenues, net of interest expense
$9,204(1)%˙“
$5,4221%˜˙$2,00816%˜˝˙
151(60)
(1)(100)
1584†
$2,3163%˜˝˙
$1,466(12)%˝˙262˝˝˜˜˝˝(21)Income from continuing operations$1,204(10)%†˙7†75Net income$1,197(10)%†˙Balance Sheet dataˆ(in billions of dollars)⁄
$80(2)%˝˙
1.50%˙˙›…
59⁄
$46.42˜
4.85%˙˙Revenue by business$6,000(2)%˙3,2041˛˚Total
$9,204(1)%˙Income from continuing operations by business$719(4)%†˙485(17)Total
$1,204(10)%†˙Foreign currency (FX) translation impact
“
$9,204(1)%˙
Š††“
$9,2044%˙“
$5,4221%˜˙
Š††“
$5,4225%˝˙
$2,3163%˜˝˙
Š††
$2,3167%˙$1,197(10)%†˙
Š††$1,197(3)%†˙ˆ
ˆ21The discussion of the results of operations for Latin America GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Latin America 
GCB™s results excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a 
reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2014 vs. 2013Net income decreased 3% as higher expenses and credit costs were partially 
offset by higher revenues.Revenues increased 4%, primarily due to volume growth and spread and fee growth in Mexico, partially offset by continued spread compression in 
the region and slower overall economic growth in certain Latin America markets, including Mexico and Brazil. Net interest revenue increased 4% 
due to increased volumes and stable spreads in Mexico, partially offset by the 
ongoing spread compression in other Latin America markets. Non-interest 
revenue increased 3%, primarily due to higher fees from increased volumes 
in retail banking and cards.Retail banking revenues increased 3% as average loans increased 6%, investment sales increased 19% and average deposits increased 6%, partially 
offset by lower spreads in Brazil and Colombia. Cards revenues increased 6% 
as average loans increased 5% and purchase sales increased 1%, excluding 
the impact of Credicard™s results in the prior year period (for additional 

information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The 
increase in cards revenues was partially offset by lower economic growth and 
slowing cards purchase sales in Mexico due to the previously disclosed fiscal 
reforms enacted in 2013 in Mexico, which included, among other things, 
higher income and other taxes that negatively impacted consumer behavior 
and spending. Citi expects these trends, as well as spread compression, could 
continue to negatively impact revenues in Latin America GCB in 2015.Expenses increased 5%, primarily due to mandatory salary increases in certain countries, higher legal and related costs, increased repositioning 
charges and higher technology spending, partially offset by productivity and 
repositioning savings.Provisions increased 7%, primarily due to higher net credit losses, which were partially offset by a lower loan loss reserve build. Net credit losses 
increased 22%, driven by portfolio growth and continued seasoning in the 
Mexico cards portfolio. Net credit losses were also impacted by both the 
slower economic growth and fiscal reforms in Mexico (as discussed above) 
as well as a $71 million charge-off in the fourth quarter of 2014 related to 
Citi™s homebuilder exposure in Mexico, which was offset by a related release 

of previously established loan loss reserves and thus neutral to the cost of 
credit. The continued impact of the fiscal reforms and economic slowdown 
in Mexico is likely to cause net credit losses in Latin America GCB to remain elevated.Argentina/Venezuela
For additional information on Citi™s exposures in Argentina and Venezuela 
and the potential impact to Latin America GCB results of operations as a 
result of certain developments in these countries, see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠCountry and Cross-Border Riskﬂ below.2013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 9% as higher credit costs, higher expenses and a 
higher effective tax rate were partially offset by higher revenues.Revenues increased 7%, primarily due to volume growth in retail banking and cards, partially offset by spread compression. Retail banking revenues 
increased 5% as average loans increased 12%, investment sales increased 13% 
and average deposits increased 2%. Cards revenues increased 10% as average 
loans increased 10% and purchase sales increased 12%, excluding the impact 
of Credicard™s results.
Expenses increased 3% due to increased volume-related costs, mandatory salary increases in certain countries and higher regulatory costs, partially 
offset by lower repositioning charges and higher repositioning savings.Provisions increased 25%, primarily due to higher net credit losses as well as a higher loan loss reserve build. Net credit losses increased 25%, primarily 
in the Mexico cards and personal loan portfolios, reflecting both volume 
growth and portfolio seasoning. The loan loss reserve build increased 52%, 
primarily due to an increase in reserves in Mexico related to the top three 
Mexican homebuilders, with the remainder due to portfolio growth and 
seasoning and the impact of potential losses related to hurricanes in the 
region during September 2013.22ASIA GCBAsia GCB provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small to mid-size businesses, with the largest Citi presence in Korea, Singapore, Australia, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines as of December 31, 2014. As previously 
announced, Citi entered into an agreement in December 2014 to sell its retail banking business in Japan (for additional information, see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ 
and ﬁGlobal Consumer Bankingﬂ above).At December 31, 2014, Asia GCB had 465 retail branches, approximately 16.4 million retail banking customer accounts, $71.8 billion in retail banking loans and $77.9 billion in deposits (excluding approximately $21 billion of deposits reclassified to held-for-sale as a result of Citi™s agreement in December 2014 to 

sell its Japan retail banking business). In addition, the business had approximately 16.5 million Citi-branded card accounts with $18.4 billion in outstanding 
loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$4,581(4)%†˙2,9653˝Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,546(1)%†˙“
$4,8967%†˙$779Š%†˙
(96)†NM
(16)˝˛NM
$667(19)%˜˙
$1,983(11)%˙663(10)Income from continuing operations$1,320(11)%†˙ŠŠNet income$1,320(11)%†˙Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)⁄
$1312%˜˙
1.01%˙˙›…
65⁄
$101.2(1)†
0.84%˙˙Revenue by business$4,6091%†˙2,937(4)†Total
$7,546(1)%†˙Income from continuing operations by business$738(6)%†˙582(16)†Total
$1,320(11)%†˙Foreign currency (FX) translation impact
“
$7,546(1)%†˙
Š††“
$7,5461%†˙“
$4,8967%†˙
Š††“
$4,8969%†˙
$667(19)%˜˙
Š††
$667(17)%˙$1,320(11)%†˙
Š††$1,320(9)%†˙ˆ
ˆ23The discussion of the results of operations for Asia GCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Asia GCB™s results excluding 
the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of certain of these 
metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2014 vs. 2013Net income decreased 9%, primarily due to higher expenses, partially offset 
by lower credit costs and higher revenues.Revenues increased 1%, as higher non-interest revenue was partially offset by a decline in net interest revenue. Non-interest revenue increased 
5%, primarily driven by higher fee revenues (largely due to the previously 
disclosed distribution agreement that commenced during the first quarter of 
2014), partially offset by a decline in investment sales revenues. Net interest 
revenue declined 2%, driven by the ongoing impact of regulatory changes, 
continued spread compression and the repositioning of the franchise 
in Korea.Retail banking revenues increased 2%, due to the higher insurance fee revenues, partially offset by lower investment sales revenues and the 
repositioning of the franchise in Korea. Investment sales revenues decreased 
2%, due to weaker investor sentiment reflecting overall market trends and 
strong prior year performance, particularly in the first half of 2013. Citi 
expects investment sales revenues will continue to reflect the overall capital 
markets environment in the region, including seasonal trends. Average 

retail deposits increased 1% (2% excluding Korea) and average retail loans 
increased 7% (9% excluding Korea).Cards revenues decreased 1%, due to the impact of regulatory changes, particularly in Korea, Indonesia and Singapore, spread compression and 
customer deleveraging, largely offset by a 2% increase in average loans and 
a 5% increase (8% excluding Korea) in purchase sales driven by growth in 
China, India, Singapore and Hong Kong.While repositioning in Korea continued to have a negative impact on year-over-year revenue comparisons in 
Asia GCB, revenues in Korea largely 
stabilized in the second half of 2014. Citi expects spread compression and 
regulatory changes in several markets across the region will continue to have 
a negative impact on Asia GCB revenues in 2015.Expenses increased 9%, primarily due to higher repositioning charges in Korea, investment spending and volume-related growth, partially offset by 
higher efficiency savings.Provisions decreased 17%, primarily due to higher loan loss reserve releases. Overall credit quality remained stable across the region during 2014.
2013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 12%, primarily due to a higher effective tax rate and 
lower revenues, partially offset by lower expenses.Revenues decreased 1%, as lower net interest revenue was partially offset by higher non-interest revenue. Net interest revenue declined 5%, primarily 
driven by spread compression and the repositioning of the franchise in Korea. 
Non-interest revenue increased 7%, mainly driven by growth in investment 
sales volume, despite a decrease in volumes in the second half of the year due 
to investor sentiment, reflecting overall market uncertainty. Retail banking 

revenues decreased 3%, primarily driven by spread compression and the 
impact of regulatory changes, partially offset by a 12% increase in investment 
sales revenues. Cards revenues increased 2%, as cards purchase sales 
increased 7% with growth across the region, partially offset by the continued 
impact of regulatory changes and customer deleveraging.Expenses declined 3%, as lower repositioning charges and efficiency and repositioning savings were partially offset by increased investment spending, 
particularly in China cards.Provisions increased 4%, reflecting a higher loan loss reserve build due to volume growth in China, Hong Kong, India and Singapore as well as 
regulatory requirements in Korea, partially offset by lower net credit losses.24INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUPInstitutional Clients Group (ICG) provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and fixed 
income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and securities services. ICG transacts with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products.ICG revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. ICG earns fee income for assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees and Investment banking. In addition, as a market maker, 
ICG facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns 
the differential between the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are 
recorded in Principal transactions. Interest income earned on inventory and loans held less interest paid to customers on deposits is recorded as Net interest revenue. Revenue is also generated from transaction processing and assets under custody and administration.ICG™s international presence is supported by trading floors in approximately 80 countries and a proprietary network in over 95 countries and jurisdictions. At 
December 31, 2014, ICG had approximately $1.0 trillion of assets and $559 billion of deposits, while two of its businesses, securities services and issuer services, 
managed approximately $16.2 trillion of assets under custody compared to $14.3 trillion at the end of 2013.As previously announced, Citi intends to exit certain businesses in ICG, including hedge fund services within Securities services, the prepaid cards business in Treasury and trade solutions
, certain transfer agency operations and wealth management administration. These businesses, consisting of approximately 
$4 billion of assets and deposits as of December 31, 2014, contributed approximately $460 million of revenues, $600 million of operating expenses and a net 
loss of $80 million in 2014, with roughly half of the pre-tax loss primarily attributable to repositioning and other actions directly related to the exit plans. These 
businesses will be reported as part of Citi Holdings beginning in the first quarter of 2015. For additional information, see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ above.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change  2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$4,3861%˙
2,577(2)†4,269115,908(9)363†(46)“
$17,503(3)%˜˜˙15,7641†Total revenues, net of interest expense
$33,267(1)%˙“
$19,960(1)%†˙$27652%†˙
(129)NM
(90)††43
$57(27)%†˙
$13,250Š%˙3,729(3)Income from continuing operations$9,5211%˜˚˙111˛˛˚1†Net income$9,4101%˜˛˙⁄
(in billions of dollars)$1,058(1)%˜˙
0.89%˙˙›…
60Revenues by regionNorth America$12,3458%˙EMEA9,513(5)Latin America
4,237(10)Asia7,172(3)Total
$33,267(1)%˙“

25Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$3,89624%˙EMEA1,984(18)†Latin America
1,337(18)†Asia2,3044Total
$9,5211%˜˚˙⁄
(in billions of dollars)North America$11113%˙EMEA585Latin America
405Asia685˝Total
$2778%˙
(in billions of dollars)“
$380Š˙ICG179(8)†Total
$559(3)%˛˚˙ICG Revenue DetailsŠExcluding CVA/DVA and Gain/(Loss) on Loan HedgesIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
−
$94911%˙1,246182,508Š†“
$4,7037%˙“
7,8821†
1,74215†
2,6537Total banking revenues (ex-CVA/DVA and gain/(loss) 
 on loan hedges)$16,9805%˛˙
$116††NM˙Total banking revenues (ex-CVA/DVA and including gain/(loss) 
 
on loan hedges)$17,0967%˙$11,815(11)%†˙2,776(1)
2,3333˝(410)††7Total Markets and securities services (ex-CVA/DVA)
$16,514(8)%˛˙Total 
ICG (ex-CVA/DVA)
$33,610(1)%˜˙ˇł⁄ıŽł
(343)††1(359)††(20)24††NM
(8)††(33)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$33,267(1)%˙ˆˆ


ˆ
ˆ”ł⁄ˆ…
ˆ26The discussion of the results of operations for ICG below excludes the impact of CVA/DVA for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of CVA/DVA and the impact of gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi 
believes the presentation of ICG™s results excluding the impact of these items is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the 
business. For a reconciliation of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2014 vs. 2013Net income increased 1%, primarily driven by lower expenses and lower 
credit costs, largely offset by lower revenues. Excluding the impact of the net 
fraud loss in 2013 (see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ above), net income decreased 
1%, primarily driven by the lower revenues and higher expenses, largely offset 
by the lower credit costs.Revenues decreased 1%, reflecting lower revenues in Markets and securities services (decrease of 8%), partially offset by higher revenues in 
Banking (increase of 7%, 5% excluding the gains/(losses) on hedges on 
accrual loans). Citi expects revenues in ICG, particularly in its Markets 
and securities services businesses, will likely continue to reflect the 
overall market environment.Within Banking:Investment banking revenues increased 7%, reflecting a stronger overall market environment and improved wallet share with ICG™s target clients, partially offset by a modest decline in overall wallet share. The decline in 
overall wallet share was primarily driven by equity and debt underwriting 
and reflected market fragmentation. Advisory revenues increased 11%, 
reflecting the increased target client activity and an expansion of the 
overall M&A market. Equity underwriting revenues increased 18% largely 
in line with overall growth in market fees. Debt underwriting revenues 
were largely unchanged.Treasury and trade solutions revenues increased 1%, as continued 
higher deposit balances, fee growth and trade activity were partially offset 
by the impact of spread compression globally. End-of-period deposit 
balances were unchanged, but increased 3% excluding the impact of 
FX translation, largely driven by North America. Average trade loans 
decreased 9% (7% excluding the impact of FX translation), as the 
business maintained origination volumes while reducing lower spread 
assets and increasing asset sales to optimize returns (see ﬁBalance Sheet 
Reviewﬂ below).Corporate lending revenues increased 52%. Excluding the impact of 
gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans, revenues increased 15%, 
primarily due to continued growth in average loan balances and lower 
funding costs. (For information on Citi™s corporate credit exposure to 
the energy sector, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠCorporate 
Credit Detailsﬂ below.)Private bank revenues increased 7% due to growth in client business 
volumes and improved spreads in banking, higher capital markets activity 
and an increase in assets under management in managed investments, 
partially offset by continued spread compression in lending.Within Markets and securities services:Fixed income markets revenues decreased 11%, driven by a decrease in rates and currencies revenues, partially offset by increased securitized 
products and commodities revenues. Rates and currencies revenues 
declined due to historically muted levels of volatility, uncertainties around 
Russia and Greece and lower client activity in the first half of 2014. In 
addition, the first half of 2013 included a strong performance in rates and 
currencies, driven in part by the impact of quantitative easing globally. 
Municipals and credit markets revenues declined due to challenging 
trading conditions resulting from macroeconomic uncertainties, 
particularly in the fourth quarter of 2014. These declines were partially 
offset by increased securitized products and commodities revenues, largely 
in North America.Equity markets revenues decreased 1%, primarily reflecting weakness in 
EMEA, particularly cash equities, driven by volatility in Europe, largely 
offset by improved performance in prime finance due to increased 
customer flows.Securities services revenues increased 3% due to increased volumes, assets 
under custody and overall client activity.Expenses decreased 1%, as efficiency savings, the absence of the net fraud loss in 2014 and lower performance-based compensation was partially offset by higher repositioning charges and legal and related expenses as 
well as increased regulatory and compliance costs. Excluding the impact 
of the net fraud loss, expenses increased 1%, as higher repositioning 
charges and legal and related expenses as well as increased regulatory 
and compliance costs were partially offset by efficiency savings and lower 
performance-based compensation.Provisions decreased 27%, primarily reflecting an improvement in the provision for unfunded lending commitments in the corporate loan portfolio, 
partially offset by higher net credit losses and a lower loan loss reserve release 
driven by the overall economic environment. Net credit losses increased 52%, 
largely related to the Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) supplier program in the 
first quarter of 2014 (for additional information, see Citi™s Form 8-K filed 

with the SEC on February 28, 2014) as well as write-offs related to a specific 
counterparty. For information on certain legal and regulatory matters 

related to the Pemex supplier program, see Note 28 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.27RussiaCiti continues to monitor and manage its exposures in ICG resulting from the instability in Russia and Ukraine. As discussed above, the ongoing 
uncertainties created by the instability in the region have impacted markets 
in the region, including certain of Citi™s markets businesses, and could 
continue to do so in the future. Any actions Citi may take to mitigate its 
exposures or risks, or the imposition of additional sanctions (such as asset 
freezes) involving Russia or against Russian entities, business sectors, 
individuals or otherwise, could negatively impact the results of operations of 
EMEA ICG. For additional information on Citi™s exposures in these countries, 
see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCountry and Cross-Border Riskﬂ below.2013 vs. 2012Net income increased 3%, primarily driven by higher revenues and lower 
expenses and credit costs, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate.Revenues increased 2%, primarily reflecting higher revenues in Banking (increase of 4%, 1% excluding the gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans) and in Markets and securities services (increase of 1%).Within Banking:Investment banking revenues increased 8%, reflecting gains in overall investment banking wallet share. Advisory revenues increased 19%, 
reflecting an improvement in wallet share, despite a contraction in the 
overall M&A market wallet. Equity underwriting revenues increased 
45%, driven by improved wallet share and increased market activity, 
particularly initial public offerings. Debt underwriting revenues decreased 
6%, primarily due to lower bond underwriting fees and a decline in wallet 
share during the year.Treasury and trade solutions revenues decreased 3%, as the ongoing 
impact of spread compression globally was partially offset by higher 
balances and fee growth. Average deposits increased 7% and average 
trade loans increased 22%, including the impact of the consolidation of 
approximately $7 billion of trade loans during the second quarter of 2013.Corporate lending revenues increased 40%. Excluding the impact of 
gains/(losses) on hedges on accrual loans, revenues decreased 4%, 
primarily due to increased hedge premium costs and moderately lower 
loan balances, partially offset by higher spreads.Private bank revenues increased 4%, with growth across all regions and 
products, particularly in managed investments, where growth reflected 
both higher client assets under management and increased placement 
fees, as well as in capital markets. Revenue growth in lending and 
deposits, primarily driven by growth in client volumes, was partially offset 
by continued spread compression.Within Markets and securities services:Fixed income markets revenues decreased 7%, primarily reflecting industry-wide weakness in rates and currencies, partially offset by strong 
performance in credit-related and securitized products and commodities. 
Rates and currencies performance was lower compared to a strong 2012 
that benefited from increased client revenues and a more liquid market 
environment, particularly in EMEA. 2013 results also reflected a general 
slowdown in client activity exacerbated by uncertainty around the 
tapering of quantitative easing as well as geopolitical issues. Credit-related 
and securitized products results reflected increased client activity driven by 
improved market conditions and demand for spread products.Equity markets revenues increased 24%, primarily due to market 
share gains, continued improvement in cash and derivative trading 
performance and a more favorable market environment.Securities services revenues increased 3%, as settlement volumes 
increased 15% and assets under custody increased 8%, partially offset by 
spread compression related to deposits.Expenses decreased 2%, primarily reflecting repositioning savings, the impact of lower performance-based compensation, lower repositioning charges and the impact of FX translation, partially offset by the net fraud 
loss in 2013 as well as higher legal and related costs and volume-related 
expenses. Excluding the impact of the net fraud loss, expenses decreased 4%, 
primarily reflecting repositioning savings, the impact of lower performance-
based compensation, lower repositioning charges and the impact of FX 
translation, partially offset by higher legal and related costs and volume-
related expenses.Provisions decreased 72%, primarily reflecting higher loan loss reserve releases and lower net credit losses.28CORPORATE/OTHERCorporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses, Corporate Treasury and discontinued operations. At December 31, 2014, Corporate/Other had $329 billion of assets, or 18% of Citigroup™s total assets, consisting primarily of Citi™s liquidity portfolio (approximately $80 billion of cash and cash 
equivalents and $197 billion of liquid investment securities). For additional information, see ﬁBalance Sheet Reviewﬂ and ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket 
RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$(222)64%269(63)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$47˛˜˛(61)%
$6,099˛’˚˝˝NM
Š—Š%˛˚˚
$(6,052)NM˙
(459)(63)%Loss from continuing operations$(5,593)NM˙
(2)NMNet loss before attribution of noncontrolling interests$(5,595)NM˙44(48)%Net loss$(5,639)NM˙ˆ2014 vs. 2013The net loss increased $5.2 billion to $5.6 billion, primarily due to higher 
legal and related expenses.Revenues decreased 61%, primarily driven by lower revenues from sales of available-for-sale (AFS) securities as well as hedging activities.
Expenses increased $5.1 billion to $6.1 billion, largely driven by the higher legal and related expenses ($4.4 billion compared to $172 million 
in 2013) as well as increased regulatory and compliance costs and higher 
repositioning charges.2013 vs. 2012The net loss decreased $747 million to $444 million, primarily due to lower 
expenses and the $189 million after-tax benefit from the sale of Credicard, 
partially offset by a lower tax benefit.Revenues decreased $7 million, driven by lower revenue from sales of AFS securities in 2013, partially offset by higher revenues from debt repurchases 
and hedging gains.Expenses decreased 54%, largely driven by lower legal and related costs and repositioning charges.29CITI HOLDINGSCiti Holdings contains businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp businesses. Consistent with this determination, as previously announced, beginning in the first quarter of 2015, Citi™s consumer operations in 11 markets, as well as the consumer finance 
business in Korea, and certain businesses in ICG, will be reported as part of Citi Holdings (see ﬁExecutive Summary,ﬂ ﬁGlobal Consumer Bankingﬂ and ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ above).As of December 31, 2014, Citi Holdings assets were approximately $98 billion, a decrease of 16% year-over-year and 5% from September 30, 2014. The decline 
in assets of $5 billion from September 30, 2014 primarily consisted of divestitures and run-off. As of December 31, 2014, consumer assets in Citi Holdings were 
approximately $87 billion, or approximately 89% of Citi Holdings assets. Of the consumer assets, approximately $59 billion, or 68%, consisted of North America mortgages (residential first mortgages and home equity loans), including consumer mortgages originated by Citi™s legacy CitiFinancial 
North America business 
(approximately $10 billion, or 17%, of the $59 billion as of December 31, 2014). As of December 31, 2014, Citi Holdings represented approximately 5% of Citi™s GAAP assets and 14% of its risk-weighted assets under Basel III (based on the Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets).In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜% Change 2014 vs. 2013
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$3,54111%˜˜˙2,27465Total revenues, net of interest expense
$5,81527%Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$1,646(46)%
(893)56
$753(27)%
602(3)
(10)Š
$1,345(18)%Total operating expenses
$7,71529%˛˝˙Loss from continuing operations before taxes$(3,245)(6)%˙121NMLoss from continuing operations$(3,366)(76)%˙$4˝(75)%Citi Holdings net loss$(3,370)(74)%˙Total revenues, net of interest expense (excluding CVA/DVA)

$5,81527%ˇ−‰„”−‰
(47)˝NMTotal revenues-excluding CVA/DVA
$5,86228%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)Average assets
$109(19)%
(3.09)%‚€
133%˛˝˛˙
$98(16)
73(21)
10(72)ˆ
ˆŁ−‰ˆ€
ˆ30The discussion of the results of operations for Citi Holdings below excludes the impact of CVA/DVA for all periods presented. Presentations of the results of operations, excluding the impact of CVA/DVA, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Citi Holdings™ results excluding the 
impact of CVA/DVA is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of these metrics to the reported 
results, see the table above.2014 vs. 2013The net loss increased by $1.4 billion to $3.3 billion, largely due to the 
impact of the mortgage settlement in July 2014 (see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ 
above), partially offset by higher revenues and lower cost of credit. 
Excluding the mortgage settlement, net income increased by $2.3 billion to 
$385 million, primarily due to lower expenses, higher revenues and lower net 
credit losses, partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve release.Revenues increased 28%, primarily driven by gains on asset sales, including the sales of the consumer operations in Greece and Spain in the 
third quarter of 2014, lower funding costs and the absence of residential 
mortgage repurchase reserve builds for representation and warranty claims 
in 2014, partially offset by losses on the redemption of debt associated with 
funding Citi Holdings assets.Expenses increased 29%, principally reflecting higher legal and related costs ($4.7 billion compared to $2.6 billion in 2013) due to the mortgage 
settlement, partially offset by lower expenses driven by the ongoing decline 
in assets. Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, expenses 
declined 34%, primarily driven by lower legal and related costs ($986 million 
compared to $2.6 billion in 2013) as well as the ongoing decline in assets.Provisions decreased 18%, driven by lower net credit losses, partially offset by a lower net loss reserve release. Excluding the impact of the 
mortgage settlement, provisions declined 22%, driven by a 46% decline in 
net credit losses primarily due to continued improvements in North America mortgages and overall lower asset levels. The net reserve release decreased 
56% to $903 million, primarily due to lower releases related to the North America mortgage portfolio, partially offset by lower losses on asset sales. 
Excluding the impact of the mortgage settlement, the net reserve release 
decreased 53%. Loan loss reserves related to the North America mortgage 
portfolio were utilized to nearly fully offset net credit losses in the portfolio 
in 2014.2013 vs. 2012The net loss decreased by 71% to $1.9 billion. 2012 included the pretax 
loss of $4.7 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the sale of the Morgan 
Stanley Smith Barney joint venture (MSSB) to Morgan Stanley. Excluding 
the MSSB loss, the net loss decreased to $1.9 billion from a net loss of 
$3.8 billion in 2012, due to significantly lower provisions for credit losses and 
higher revenues, partially offset by higher expenses.Revenues increased to $4.6 billion, primarily due to the absence of the MSSB loss. Excluding the MSSB loss, revenues increased 23%, primarily 
driven by lower funding costs and lower residential mortgage repurchase 
reserve builds for representation and warranty claims ($470 million, 
compared to $700 million in 2012).Expenses increased 13%, primarily due to higher legal and related costs ($2.6 billion in 2013 compared to $1.2 billion in 2012), driven largely 
by legacy private-label securitization and other mortgage-related issues, 
partially offset by lower overall assets. Excluding legal and related costs, 
expenses declined 18% versus 2012.Provisions decreased 66%, driven by the absence of incremental net credit losses relating to the national mortgage settlement and those required 
by Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) guidance during 2012 
(for additional information, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), as well as improved credit in North America mortgages 
and overall lower asset levels. Loan loss reserve releases increased 27% to 
$2 billion, which included a loan loss reserve release of approximately 
$2.2 billion related to the North America mortgage portfolio, partially offset 
by losses on asset sales.Japan Consumer FinanceIn 2008, Citi decided to exit its Japan Consumer Finance business and 
has liquidated approximately 95% of the portfolio since that time. As 
of December 31, 2014, Citi™s Japan Consumer Finance business had 
approximately $151 million in outstanding loans that currently charge 
or have previously charged interest rates in the ﬁgray zoneﬂ (interest at 
rates that are legal but may not be enforceable and thus may subject Citi 
to customer refund claims), compared to approximately $278 million as 
of December 31, 2013. Although the portfolio has largely been liquidated, 
Citi could be subject to refund claims on previously outstanding loans that 
charged gray zone interest and thus could be subject to losses on loans in 
excess of these amounts.At December 31, 2014, Citi™s reserves related to customer refunds in 
the Japan Consumer Finance business were $442 million, compared to 
$434 million at December 31, 2013. The increase in the total reserve year-

over-year primarily resulted from net reserve builds in 2014 ($248 million 

compared to $28 million in 2013) due to less than expected declines in 
customer refund claims, partially offset by payments made to customers and 
a continuing reduction in the population of current and former customers 
who are eligible to make refund claims.Citi continues to monitor and evaluate trends and developments relating to the charging of gray zone interest, including customer defaults, refund 
claims and litigation, and financial, legislative, regulatory, judicial and 

other political developments, as well as the potential impact to both currently 
and previously outstanding loans in this legacy business and its reserves 
related thereto. Citi could be subject to additional losses as a result of these 
developments and the impact on Citi is subject to uncertainty and continues 
to be difficult to predict.31BALANCE SHEET REVIEWThe following sets forth a general discussion of the changes in certain of the more significant line items of Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. For a description of and additional information on each of these balance sheet categories, see Notes 11, 13, 14, 15 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional 
information on Citigroup™s liquidity resources, including its deposits, short-term and long-term debt and secured financing transactions, see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidity Riskﬂ below.In billions of dollarsDecember 31,  2014September 30,  2014ˇEOP  4Q14 vs. 3Q14 
Increase  (decrease)%  Changeˇ
ˇˇˇAssets$160$179š$(19)(11)%šˇ
243245(2)(1)ƒ
29729162333333ŠŠ⁄
645654‹‹—(9)(1)
(16)(17)1(6)˘
629637(8)(1)181198(17)(9)Total assets
$1,843$1,883š$(40)(2)%šLiabilities
$899$943š€‹⁄$(44)(5)%š
173176(3)(2)ƒ
139137215865—€(7)(11)223224(1)Š
1391241512Total liabilities
$1,631$1,669š$(38)(2)%šTotal equity
212214(2)(1)‹˘Total liabilities and equity
$1,843$1,883š$(40)(2)%šASSETSCash and Deposits with BanksCash and deposits with banks decreased from the prior-year period as Citi continued to grow its investment portfolio to manage its interest rate position 
and deploy its excess liquidity. Average cash balances were $182 billion in 
the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $204 billion in the fourth quarter 
of 2013.Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or 
Purchased Under Agreements to Resell (Reverse Repos)The decline in reverse repos and securities borrowing transactions from the 
prior-year period was due to the impact of FX translation and continued 
optimization of Citi™s secured lending (for additional information, see 
ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidity Riskﬂ 
below), partially offset by increased short trading in the Markets and securities services businesses within ICG.Trading Account AssetsTrading account assets increased from the prior-year period, as increased 
market volatility, particularly in rates and currencies within Markets and securities services within ICG, increased the carrying value of Citi™s 
derivatives positions. Average trading account assets were $309 billion in 
the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $292 billion in the fourth quarter 
of 2013.InvestmentsThe increase in investments year-over-year reflected Citi™s continued 
deployment of its excess cash (as discussed above) by investing in 
available-for-sale securities, particularly in U.S. treasuries.32LoansThe impact of FX translation on Citi™s reported loans was a negative $17 billion versus the prior-year period and negative $10 billion sequentially.Excluding the impact of FX translation, Citi™s loans decreased 1% 
from the prior-year period, as 3% loan growth in Citicorp was offset by 

the continued declines in Citi Holdings. Consumer loans grew 2% year-

over-year, driven by 4% growth internationally. Corporate loans grew 4% 

year-over-year. Traditional corporate lending balances grew 4%, with growth 

in North America driven by higher client transaction activity. Treasury and 

trade solutions loans decreased 8%, as Citi maintained trade origination 
volumes while reducing lower spread assets and increasing asset sales to 
optimize returns. Private bank and markets loans increased 16%, led by 
growth in the North America private bank, contributing to the revenue 
growth in that business. Citi Holdings loans decreased 21% year-over-year, 

mainly due to continued runoff and asset sales in the North America mortgage portfolio as well as the sales of the Greece and Spain consumer 
operations in the third quarter of 2014.Sequentially, loans were relatively unchanged, excluding the impact of 
FX translation, as the decline in Citi Holdings loans was offset by continued 
growth in Citicorp, driven by consumer loans.During the fourth quarter of 2014, average loans of $651 billion yielded an average rate of 6.7%, compared to $659 billion and 6.7% in the third 
quarter of 2014 and $659 billion and 7.0% in the fourth quarter of 2013.For further information on Citi™s loan portfolios, see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠCredit Riskﬂ and ﬁŠ Country Riskﬂ below.
Other AssetsThe fluctuations in other assets during the periods presented were largely 
changes in brokerage receivables driven by normal business activities.LIABILITIESDepositsFor a discussion of Citi™s deposits, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidity Riskﬂ below.Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold 
Under Agreements to Repurchase (Repos)Citi™s federal funds purchased were not significant for the periods presented. 
The decrease in repos and securities lending transactions was due to the 
impact of FX translation and the continued optimization of secured funding.For further information on Citi™s secured financing transactions, see 
ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.
Trading Account LiabilitiesThe increase in trading account liabilities from the prior-year period was 
consistent with and driven by the increase in trading account assets, as 
discussed above. Average trading account liabilities were $147 billion during 
the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to $112 billion in the fourth quarter 
of 2013.DebtFor information on Citi™s long-term and short-term debt borrowings, 
see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidity 
Riskﬂ below.Other LiabilitiesThe increase in other liabilities from the prior-year period was driven by the 
reclassification to held-for-sale of approximately $21 billion of deposits as 
a result of Citi™s entry into an agreement in December 2014 to sell its Japan 
retail banking business, as well as changes in the levels of brokerage payables 
driven by normal business activities.33Segment Balance Sheet (1)In millions of dollarsGlobal Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCorporate/Other and Consolidating Eliminations (2)Subtotal  CiticorpCiti  HoldingsCitigroup Parent Company- 
 Issued  Long-Term 
 Debt and  Stockholders™  Equity (3)Total Citigroup 
 ConsolidatedAssets$17,192$62,245$79,701$159,138$1,059$Š$160,197
5,317236,211Š241,5281,042Š242,570ƒ
7,328284,922754293,0043,782Š296,78626,39590,434205,805322,63410,809Š333,443
ˇ
287,934272,002Š559,93668,705Š628,64151,88574,25942,284168,42812,465Š180,893Total assets
$396,051$1,020,073$328,544$1,744,668$97,862$Š$1,842,530Liabilities and equityƒ
$307,626$558,926$22,803$889,355$9,977$Š$899,332
5,826167,500Š173,326112Š173,438ƒ
19138,195Š138,214822Š139,03639646,66411,22958,28946Š58,3351,93935,41129,34966,6996,869149,512223,080
39,21074,35315,181128,7448,520Š137,264
41,035(976)248,471288,53071,516(360,046)ŠTotal liabilities
$396,051$1,020,073$327,033$1,743,157$97,862$(210,534)$1,630,485Total equity
ŠŠ1,5111,511Š210,534212,045Total liabilities and equity
$396,051$1,020,073$328,544$1,744,668$97,862$Š$1,842,530ˇˇ
ˇ


ˇ
ˇ


ˇŽ˚‡“˚•
34 Citigroup enters into various types of off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. Citi™s involvement in these arrangements can 
take many different forms, including without limitation:purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in unconsolidated special purpose entities, such as credit card receivables and mortgage-
backed and other asset-backed securitization entities;holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general 
partnerships and equity interests in other unconsolidated special 
purpose entities;providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of 
credit and representations and warranties; andentering into operating leases for property and equipment.Citi enters into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes. For example, securitization arrangements offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process. Securitization 
arrangements also assist Citi and Citi™s customers in monetizing their 

financial assets and securing financing at more favorable rates than Citi or 
the customers could otherwise obtain.The table below shows where a discussion of Citi™s various off
-balance sheet arrangements may be found in this Form 10-K. In addition, see Notes 1, 

22 and 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Types of Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Disclosures in 
this Form 10-Kœˇ
ˇ





ˇ

ˇ
ˇ

ˇ

ˇ
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS35CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONSThe following table includes information on Citigroup™s contractual obligations, as specified and aggregated pursuant to SEC requirements.Contractual obligations by yearIn millions of dollars20152016201720182019ThereafterTotal

ššššššš

‹–€
‹–‹‹—–
‹€˘€——Total
$71,782$50,399$47,159$26,754$25,754$108,893$330,741ˇ
ˇ
ˇ

ˇ



ˇOther liabilities
ˇˆ˚‡“˚•
ˇ

36CAPITAL RESOURCESOverviewCapital is used principally to support assets in Citi™s businesses and to absorb credit, market and operational losses. Citi primarily generates 
capital through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment 
its capital through issuances of common stock, noncumulative perpetual 
preferred stock and equity issued through awards under employee benefit 
plans, among other issuances. During 2014, Citi continued to raise capital 
through noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issuances amounting to 
approximately $3.7 billion, resulting in a total of approximately $10.5 billion 
outstanding as of December 31, 2014.Further, Citi™s capital levels may also be affected by changes in regulatory 
and accounting standards as well as the impact of future events on Citi™s 

business results, such as corporate and asset dispositions.Capital ManagementCitigroup™s capital management framework is designed to ensure that 
Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent 
with each entity™s respective risk profile and all applicable regulatory 
standards and guidelines. Citi assesses its capital adequacy against a series 
of internal quantitative capital goals, designed to evaluate the Company™s 
capital levels in expected and stressed economic environments. Underlying 
these internal quantitative capital goals are strategic capital considerations, 
centered on preserving and building financial strength. Senior management, 
with oversight from Citigroup™s Board of Directors, is responsible for the 
capital assessment and planning process, which is integrated into Citi™s 
capital plan. Implementation of the capital plan is carried out mainly 
through Citigroup™s Asset and Liability Committee, with oversight from the 
Risk Management Committee of Citigroup™s Board of Directors. Asset and 
liability committees are also established globally and for each significant 
legal entity, region, country and/or major line of business.Current Regulatory Capital StandardsOverview
Citi is subject to regulatory capital standards issued by the Federal Reserve 
Board which, commencing with 2014, constitute the substantial adoption of 
the final U.S. Basel III rules (Final Basel III Rules), such as those governing 
the composition of regulatory capital (including the application of regulatory 

capital adjustments and deductions) and, initially for the second quarter of 
2014 in conjunction with the granting of permission by the Federal Reserve 
Board to exit parallel reporting, approval to apply the Basel III Advanced 
Approaches framework in deriving risk-based capital ratios. Further, the 
Final Basel III Rules implement the ﬁcapital floor provisionﬂ of the so-called 
ﬁCollins Amendmentﬂ of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires Advanced 
Approaches banking organizations, such as Citi and Citibank, N.A., upon 
exiting parallel reporting, to calculate each of the three risk-based capital 
ratios (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital) 
under both the Standardized Approach starting on January 1, 2015 (or, for 
2014, prior to the effective date of the Standardized Approach, the Basel I 
credit risk and Basel II.5 market risk capital rules, subsequently referred to in 
this section as the Basel III 2014 Standardized Approach) and the Advanced 
Approaches and publicly report (as well as measure compliance against) the 
lower of each of the resulting capital ratios.Under the Final Basel III Rules, Citi, as with principally all U.S. banking organizations, is also required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio 

of 4% commencing in 2014. The Tier 1 Leverage ratio, a non-risk-based 

measure of capital adequacy, is defined as Tier 1 Capital as a percentage 

of quarterly adjusted average total assets less amounts deducted from 
Tier 1 Capital.
37
Basel III Transition Arrangements
The Final Basel III Rules contain several differing, largely multi-year 
transition provisions (i.e., ﬁphase-insﬂ and ﬁphase-outsﬂ) with respect to 
the stated minimum Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Capital 
ratio requirements, substantially all regulatory capital adjustments and 
deductions, non-qualifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital instruments (such 
as non-grandfathered trust preferred securities and certain subordinated 
debt issuances), and the capital buffers. All of these transition provisions, 
with the exception of the phase-out of non-qualifying trust preferred 
securities from Tier 2 Capital, will be fully implemented by January 1, 2019 
(full implementation).
The following chart sets forth the transitional progression to full 
implementation by January 1, 2019 of the regulatory capital components 
(i.e., inclusive of the mandatory 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer and at 
least a 2% global systemically important bank holding company (GSIB) 
surcharge, but exclusive of the potential imposition of an additional 
Countercyclical Capital Buffer) comprising the effective minimum risk-based 
capital ratios.
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
1/1/19
1/1/18
1/1/17
1/1/16
1/1/15
1/1/14
Basel III Transition Arrangements: Minimum Risk-Based Capital Ratios
Tier 2 Capital
Additional Tier 1 Capital
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
4%
1.5%
2.5%
4.5%
1.5%
2%
4.5%
1.5%
0.625%
0.5%
9.125%
10.25%
11.375%
12.5%
1.25%
1%
1.875%
1.5%
2.5%
2%
2%
4.5%
1.5%
2%
4.5%
1.5%
2%
4.5%
1.5%
2%
Total Capital ratio
(effective minimum)
Capital Conservation
Buffer
8% Total Capital ratio
(stated minimum)
6% Tier 1 Capital ratio
(stated minimum)
4.5% Common Equity 
Tier 1 Capital ratio
(stated minimum)
GSIB surcharge
(1)

ˇ
ˇ

ˇˇ

38The following chart presents the transition arrangements (phase-in and phase-out) under the Final Basel III Rules for significant regulatory capital adjustments and deductions relative to Citi.Basel III Transition Arrangements: Significant Regulatory Capital Adjustments and DeductionsJanuary 1
20142015201620172018Phase-in of Significant Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions
ƒ
ƒ
ƒ
Phase-out of Significant AOCI Regulatory Capital Adjustments
ƒ
ˇƒ


ƒˇ

ƒ



ƒ
ˇƒˇ‡ﬁ„‡

ƒ
ˇƒƒƒ
ˇƒ˙•˚„‡


39Citigroup™s Capital Resources Under Current  Regulatory Standards
During 2014, Citi was required to maintain stated minimum Common 
Equity Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4%, 5.5% 
and 8%, respectively. Furthermore, to be ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current 
federal bank regulatory agency definitions, a bank holding company must 
have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at least 6%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10%, 
and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to maintain higher 
capital levels.The following table sets forth the capital tiers, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets and capital ratios under current 
regulatory standards (reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements) for Citi as 

of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.Citigroup Capital Components and Ratios Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Transition Arrangements)December 31, 2014

In millions of dollars, except ratios
Advanced 
 ApproachesStandardized Approach (2)ˇƒ
$166,984$166,984ššƒ
166,984166,984ƒƒ
185,280196,379
1,275,0121,080,716ﬁˇ−ƒ
1,849,2971,849,297ƒ
13.10 %15.45%ƒ
13.1015.45ƒ
14.5318.17ƒ
9.039.03ˇ
ˇ
ˇ†˙•˚ˇ‡ƒ
ƒ


ˇƒ
ˇƒˇƒƒ
As indicated in the table above, Citigroup™s capital ratios at December 31, 
2014 were in excess of the stated minimum requirements under the Final 
Basel III Rules. In addition, Citi was also ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current 
federal bank regulatory agency definitions as of December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013.40Components of Citigroup Capital Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014ˇˇCommon Equity Tier 1 Capital

$200,190š
539—€–Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:

46
(4,127)ˇ
(909)
ˇ
56˘—

22,805
875
187ˇ‡
ˇﬁ„‡
4,726
ˇ2,003ƒ
ˇƒ
8,083Total Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$166,984šAdditional Tier 1 Capital

$10,344š1,7197⁄Regulatory Capital Adjustment and Deductions:

ˇ
223
279
749ˇ˜ƒˇ‡
ˇﬁ„‡
18,902ƒ
ˇƒ
(8,083)Total Additional Tier 1 Capital
$ŠšžTotal Tier 1 Capital (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital + Additional Tier 1 Capital)
$166,984šTier 2 Capital

$17,386šŠ12
1,177Regulatory Capital Deduction:


279Total Tier 2 Capital
$18,296šTotal Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$185,280šƒ
41Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014ˇ$862,031š100,481
312,500Total Risk-Weighted Assets
$1,275,012šˇ
ˇ“ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆ
ˇ
ˇﬁ

ˇˇ


ˇƒƒ
ƒ
ˇƒ
ˇ
ƒ
ˇ
ˇ“˚•“ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆ
ˇ“˚•“˚•ﬁˇ

“˚•ˇ‡
ﬁ„‡ƒƒ
“˚•ﬁˇ˜ƒ

“˚•ﬁ
ƒ
ˇˇˆ˚‡
ˇƒˇ
†˙•˚ˇ‡ƒ

ˇƒƒ
ˇ
†˙•˚ˇ‡ƒ
ˇƒ

ˇ
ˇ‡˚ˆˇ

ˇ

ˇ˚‡ˇˆ˚‡
ﬁ
42Citigroup Capital Rollforward Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2014
Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2014
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
 (1)$166,425$157,4733507,313(190)(633)
(380)(1,232)
229778
(2,716)(4,946)
94339
(213)(234)
ˇ
(17)(21)
8731,713
ˇ
(14)1154938ˇ‡
ˇﬁ„‡
205562
ˇ(88)340ƒ
ˇƒ
2,4025,084(25)295Net increase in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$559$9,511Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$166,984$166,984Additional Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
 (1)$Š$Š1,4933,699(7)(897)
ˇ
(69)(81)194151ˇ‡
ˇﬁ„‡
8222,249ƒ
ˇƒ
(2,402)(5,084)(31)(37)Net change in Additional Tier 1 Capital
$Š$ŠTier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$166,984$166,984Tier 2 Capital

Balance, beginning of period
 (1)$18,382$19,275
401792Š(1,242)
(456)(492)(31)(37)Net decrease in Tier 2 Capital
$(86)$(979)Tier 2 Capital Balance, end of period
$18,296$18,296Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$185,280$185,280ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ“˚•“˚•
ˇﬁﬁˇ

43Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Transition Arrangements)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2014
Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2014
 (1)Total Risk-Weighted Assets, beginning of period
$1,282,986$1,103,045Impact of adoption of Basel III Advanced Approaches
 (2)Š74,691Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
5,222(29,820)(9,316)31,698(444)4,483
(166)2,470(893)(1,605)
(10,158)9,148−
1,8344,544(5,004)5,706
(1,245)1,325Net change in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
$(20,170)$27,949Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets

$650$(17,803)
(954)6,130Net decrease in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
$(304)$(11,673)Net increase in Operational Risk-Weighted Assets
 (9)$12,500$81,000Total Risk-Weighted Assets, end of period
$1,275,012$1,275,012ˇƒ

ˇŽ˚‡


ˇ

ˇˇ

ˇˇˇ

ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ

ˇ˚‡

ˇˆ˚‡ﬁ
44Capital Resources of Citigroup™s Subsidiary U.S. Depository Institutions Under Current Regulatory Standards
Citigroup™s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to 
regulatory capital standards issued by their respective primary federal 
bank regulatory agencies, which are similar to the standards of the Federal 
Reserve Board.The following table sets forth the capital tiers, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets and capital ratios under current 
regulatory standards (reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements) for 

Citibank, N.A., Citi™s primary subsidiary U.S. depository institution, as of 

December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.Citibank, N.A. Capital Components and Ratios Under Current Regulatory Standards (Basel III Transition Arrangements)December 31, 2014

In millions of dollars, except ratios
Advanced
 ApproachesStandardized Approach (2)ˇˇƒ
$129,135$129,135ššƒ
129,135129,135ƒƒ
140,119150,215
946,333906,250ﬁˇ−ƒ
1,367,4441,367,444ƒ
13.65%14.25%ƒ
13.6514.25ƒ
14.8116.58ƒ
9.449.44ˇ
ˇ
ˇ†˙•˚ˇ‡ƒ
ƒ


ˇƒ
ˇƒˇƒƒˇˇ

ƒƒˇ

˙•˚ˇƒ
45Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. Capital Ratios Under Current Regulatory Capital Standards
The following table presents the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup™s and 
Citibank, N.A.™s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Common Equity 
Tier 1 Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (numerator), and changes of 
$1 billion in Advanced Approaches and Standardized Approach risk-weighted 
assets as well as quarterly adjusted average total assets (denominator), 
under current regulatory capital standards (reflecting Basel III Transition 
Arrangements), as of December 31, 2014. This information is provided for 
the purpose of analyzing the impact that a change in Citigroup™s or Citibank, 
N.A.™s financial position or results of operations could have on these ratios. 
These sensitivities only consider a single change to either a component 
of capital, risk-weighted assets, or quarterly adjusted average total assets. 
Accordingly, an event that affects more than one factor may have a larger 
basis point impact than is reflected in this table.Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio
Tier 1 Capital ratio
Total Capital ratio
Tier 1 Leverage ratio
Impact of $100 million change in Common Equity Tier 1 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Tier 1 
CapitalImpact of $1 billion change in risk-weighted assetsImpact of $100 million change in Total 
CapitalImpact of  $1 billion change in  risk-weighted  assetsImpact of $100 million change in Tier 1 
CapitalImpact of  $1 billion  change in  quarterly  adjusted  average total  assetsCitigroup

Citibank, N.A.



ˇ
Citigroup Broker-Dealer SubsidiariesAt December 31, 2014, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer 
registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of 
Citigroup, had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC™s net 
capital rule, of $5.5 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement 
by $4.4 billion.In addition, certain of Citi™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject 
to regulation in the countries in which they do business, including 
requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. 
Citigroup™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their 

capital requirements at December 31, 2014.46Basel III (Full Implementation)Citigroup™s Capital Resources Under Basel III (Full Implementation)
Citi currently anticipates that its effective minimum Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratio requirements under the Final 
Basel III Rules, on a fully implemented basis, will be at least 9%, 10.5% and 
12.5%, respectively. However, Citi™s effective minimum ratio requirements 
will be higher if the Federal Reserve Board™s GSIB surcharge rule were to be 
adopted as proposed.Further, under the Final Basel III Rules, Citi must also comply with a 4% 
minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio requirement and an effective 5% minimum 

Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement.The following table sets forth the capital tiers, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets and capital ratios under the Final 
Basel III Rules for Citi, assuming full implementation, as of December 31, 
2014 and December 31, 2013.Citigroup Capital Components and Ratios Under Basel III (Full Implementation)December 31, 2014

In millions of dollars, except ratios
Advanced 
ApproachesStandardized Approach (1)ˇƒ
$136,806$136,806ššƒ
148,275148,275ƒƒ
165,663178,625
1,292,8781,228,748ﬁˇ−ƒ
1,835,4971,835,497ƒ
10.58%11.13%ƒ
11.4712.07ƒ
12.8114.54ƒ
8.088.08ˇƒˇƒƒ
ˇ†˙•˚ˇ‡ƒ
ƒ


ˇƒ
ˇƒˇƒƒ
ˇ


Common Equity Tier 1 Capital RatioCiti™s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio was 10.6% at December 31, 2014, 
unchanged from that estimated as of December 31, 2013 (both based on 
application of the Advanced Approaches for determining total risk-weighted 
assets). The ratio remained stable year-over-year as the growth in Common 
Equity Tier 1 Capital largely reflecting net income of $7.3 billion and the 
favorable effects attributable to DTA utilization of approximately $3.3 billion, 
was offset by a decline in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), 
and higher credit and operational risk-weighted assets.47Components of Citigroup Capital Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014ˇCommon Equity Tier 1 Capital

$200,190š
165Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:

ˇ
(909)
279

22,805
4,373
936ˇ‡ﬁ„‡
23,628
12,437Total Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$136,806šAdditional Tier 1 Capital
$10,344š1,36935˘€Regulatory Capital Deduction:

279Total Additional Tier 1 Capital
$11,469šTotal Tier 1 Capital (Common Equity Tier 1 Capital + Additional Tier 1 Capital)
$148,275šTier 2 Capital

$16,094š35046
1,177Regulatory Capital Deduction:


279Total Tier 2 Capital
$17,388šTotal Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital) 
(12)$165,663šˇﬁ

ˇƒ
ˇ

ƒ
ˇ
ˇ“˚•“˚•“˚•ﬁˇ

ƒ“˚•ˇ

‡ﬁ„‡ƒ“˚•ﬁˇ

ﬁˇ˜ƒ

“˚•ﬁƒ


ˇˇˆ˚‡
ˇƒ
ˇƒƒ
ˇƒ
ˇ†˙•˚ˇ‡ƒƒ
ˇƒ

ˇƒƒ
48Citigroup Capital Rollforward Under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2014
Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2014
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$138,762$125,5973507,313(190)(633)
(380)(1,232)
229778
(2,716)(4,946)
4701,697
(1,064)(1,170)˙•˚ˇ
ˇ
(86)(102)
8731,713
(66)577243189ˇ‡
ˇﬁ„‡
1,0272,811
(639)3,878(7)336Net change in Common Equity Tier 1 Capital
$(1,956)$11,209Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$136,806$136,806Additional Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$10,010$7,8151,4933,699(1)(5)(33)(40)Net increase in Additional Tier 1 Capital
$1,459$3,654Tier 1 Capital Balance, end of period
$148,275$148,275Tier 2 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$17,482$16,637
4011,680
(456)(492)(39)(437)Net change in Tier 2 Capital
$(94)$751Tier 2 Capital Balance, end of period
$17,388$17,388Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$165,663$165,663ˇ
ˇ“˚•“˚•
ˇﬁﬁˇ

49Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel III (Full Implementation) at December 31, 2014 (1)Advanced Approaches
Standardized ApproachIn millions of dollarsCiticorpCiti HoldingsTotal
CiticorpCiti HoldingsTotal
$760,690$119,207$879,897$1,033,064$95,203$1,128,26795,8354,646100,48195,8354,646100,481
258,69353,807312,500ŠŠŠTotal Risk-Weighted Assets
$1,115,218$177,660$1,292,878$1,128,899$99,849$1,228,748Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel III (Full Implementation) at December 31, 2013 (1)Advanced Approaches
Standardized ApproachIn millions of dollarsCiticorpCiti HoldingsTotal
CiticorpCiti HoldingsTotal
šššššš
žžžƒ
ššššššˇ
ˇ
ˇ˚‡ˇˆ˚‡

ﬁ
Total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Advanced Approaches 
increased from year-end 2013 largely due to the previously mentioned 

increases in operational risk-weighted assets throughout 2014 as well as 
enhancements to Citi™s credit risk models, partially offset by model parameter 

updates, the impact of FX translation and the ongoing decline in Citi 
Holdings assets.Total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III Standardized Approach 
increased during 2014 substantially due to an increase in credit risk-weighted 

assets attributable to an increase in derivative exposures and corporate 
lending products within the ICG businesses, partially offset by the ongoing 
decline in Citi Holdings assets.50Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward (Basel III Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)In millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2014
 (1)Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2014
 (1)Total Risk-Weighted Assets, beginning of period
$1,301,958$1,185,766Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
5,222(29,820)(9,316)31,698(444)4,483
(166)2,470(770)(1,681)
(10,158)9,148−
1,8344,544(6,170)12,638
(1,308)4,305Net change in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
$(21,276)$37,785Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets

$650$(17,803)
(954)6,130Net decrease in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
$(304)$(11,673)Net increase in Operational Risk-Weighted Assets 
(8)$12,500$81,000Total Risk-Weighted Assets, end of period
$1,292,878$1,292,878ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇˇ


ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ“˚•

ˇ˚‡

ˇˆ˚‡ﬁ
51Supplementary Leverage RatioUnder the Final Basel III Rules, Advanced Approaches banking organizations, 
including Citi and Citibank, N.A., are also required to calculate a 
Supplementary Leverage ratio, which significantly differs from the Tier 1 
Leverage ratio by also including certain off-balance sheet exposures within 
the denominator of the ratio (Total Leverage Exposure).In September 2014, the U.S. banking agencies adopted revisions to the Final Basel III Rules (Revised Final Basel III Rules) with respect to the 
definition of Total Leverage Exposure as well as the frequency with which 

certain components of the Supplementary Leverage ratio are calculated. As 
revised, the Supplementary Leverage ratio represents end of period Tier 1 

Capital to Total Leverage Exposure, with the latter defined as the sum of 

the daily average of on-balance sheet assets for the quarter and the average 
of certain off-balance sheet exposures calculated as of the last day of each 
month in the quarter, less applicable Tier 1 Capital deductions.
Under the Revised Final Basel III Rules, the definition of Total Leverage 
Exposure has been modified from that of the Final Basel III Rules in certain 
respects, such as by permitting limited netting of repo-style transactions 
(i.e., qualifying repurchase or reverse repurchase and securities borrowing 
or lending transactions) with the same counterparty and allowing for the 
application of cash variation margin to reduce derivative exposures, both of 
which are subject to certain specific conditions, as well as by distinguishing 
and expanding the measure of exposure for written credit derivatives. 
Moreover, the credit conversion factors (CCF) to be applied to certain off-

balance sheet exposures have been conformed to those under the Basel III 
Standardized Approach for determining credit risk-weighted assets, with the 
exception of the imposition of a 10% CCF floor.
Consistent with the Final Basel III Rules, Advanced Approaches banking organizations will be required to disclose the Supplementary Leverage ratio 
commencing January 1, 2015. Further, U.S. GSIBs and their subsidiary 

insured depository institutions, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., will be 
subject to enhanced Supplementary Leverage ratio standards. The enhanced 
Supplementary Leverage ratio standards establish a 2% leverage buffer for 
U.S. GSIBs in addition to the stated 3% minimum Supplementary Leverage 
ratio requirement in the Final Basel III Rules. If a U.S. GSIB failed to 
exceed the 2% leverage buffer, it would be subject to increasingly onerous 

restrictions (depending upon the extent of the shortfall) regarding capital 
distributions and discretionary executive bonus payments. Accordingly, 

U.S. GSIBs are effectively subject to a 5% minimum Supplementary Leverage 
ratio requirement. Additionally, the final rule requires that insured depository 

institution subsidiaries of U.S. GSIBs, including Citibank, N.A., maintain 
a Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6% to be considered ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ 
under the revised prompt corrective action framework established by the 
Final Basel III Rules. Citi and Citibank, N.A. are required to be compliant 
with these higher effective minimum ratio requirements on January 1, 2018.52The following table sets forth Citi™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio and related components, under the Revised Final Basel III Rules, for the three months ended December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.Citigroup Estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratios and Related Components (1)In millions of dollars, except ratios
December 31, 
2014ˇ
ˇTier 1 Capital
$148,275šTotal Leverage Exposure (TLE)
On-balance sheet assets (3)$1,899,955šCertain off-balance sheet exposures: 
(4)
240,712
96,869
21,894
61,673
229,672Total of certain off-balance sheet exposures
$650,820šˇƒ
64,458Total Leverage Exposure
$2,486,317šSupplementary Leverage ratio
5.96%ˇﬁˇ

ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
Citigroup™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio under 
the Revised Final Basel III Rules was 6.0% for the fourth quarter of 2014, 
unchanged from the third quarter of 2014, and increased from 5.4% for the 
fourth quarter of 2013 (on a pro forma basis to conform to current period 
presentation). Citi™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio 

remained unchanged quarter-over-quarter as the Tier 1 Capital benefits 

resulting from preferred stock issuances and a decrease in goodwill were 
offset by a decrease in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), 
with Total Leverage Exposure also remaining substantially unchanged. 

The growth in the ratio from the fourth quarter of 2013 was principally 
driven by an increase in Tier 1 Capital attributable largely to net income of 

$7.3 billion, approximately $3.3 billion of DTA utilization and approximately 

$3.7 billion of perpetual preferred stock issuances, offset in part by a 
reduction in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and a marginal increase in Total Leverage Exposure.
Citibank, N.A.™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio under 
the Revised Final Basel III Rules was 6.3% for the fourth quarter of 2014, 
unchanged from the third quarter of 2014 and, on a pro forma basis, from 
the fourth quarter of 2013. Tier 1 Capital benefits resulting from quarterly 

and annual net income and DTA utilization were largely offset by an 

increase in Total Leverage Exposure and a reduction in 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and, for the year only, cash dividends paid by 

Citibank, N.A. to its parent, Citicorp, and which were subsequently remitted 
to Citigroup.53Regulatory Capital Standards DevelopmentsGSIB SurchargeIn December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board issued a notice of proposed 
rulemaking which would impose risk-based capital surcharges upon 
U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as GSIBs, including Citi. 
Under the Federal Reserve Board™s proposed rule, consistent with the Basel 
Committee™s methodology, identification as a GSIB would be based primarily 
on quantitative measurement indicators underlying five equally weighted 
broad categories of systemic importance: (i) size, (ii) interconnectedness, 
(iii) cross-jurisdictional activity, (iv) substitutability, and (v) complexity. 
With the exception of size, each of the other categories are comprised of 
multiple indicators also of equal weight, and amounting to 12 indicators 
in total.A U.S. banking organization that is designated a GSIB under the proposed methodology would calculate a surcharge using two methods and would 
be subject to the higher of the resulting two surcharges. The first method 
(ﬁmethod 1ﬂ) would be based on the same five broad categories of systemic 
importance used to identify a GSIB, whereas under the second method 
(ﬁmethod 2ﬂ) the substitutability indicator would be replaced with a measure 

intended to assess the extent of a GSIB™s reliance on short-term wholesale 

funding. As proposed, given that the calculation under method 2 involves, in 
part, the doubling of the indicator scores related to size, interconnectedness, 
cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity, method 2 would generally result 

in higher surcharges as compared to method 1.Estimated GSIB surcharges under the proposed rule, which would be required to be comprised entirely of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, would 

initially range from 1.0% to 4.5% of total risk-weighted assets. Moreover, the 

GSIB surcharge would be an extension of the Capital Conservation Buffer 
and, if invoked, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer, and would result in 

restrictions on earnings distributions (e.g., dividends, equity repurchases, 
and discretionary executive bonuses) should the surcharge be drawn upon to 
absorb losses during periods of financial or economic stress, with the degree 
of such restrictions based upon the extent to which the surcharge is drawn.Under the proposal, like that of the Basel Committee™s rule, the GSIB 
surcharge would be introduced in parallel with the Capital Conservation 
Buffer and, if applicable, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer, commencing 

phase-in on January 1, 2016 and becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019.As of December 31, 2014, Citi estimates its GSIB surcharge under the Federal Reserve Board™s proposal would be 4%, compared to at least 2% under 

the Basel Committee requirements.For additional information regarding the Federal Reserve Board™s GSIB 
surcharge proposal, as well as the Financial Stability Board™s total loss-

absorbing capacity, or TLAC, consultative document, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠ

Regulatory Risksﬂ and ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding 
and Liquidity Riskﬂ below.
Tangible Common Equity, Tangible Book Value Per Share 
and Book Value Per ShareTangible common equity (TCE), as currently defined by Citi, represents 
common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (other than MSRs). 
Other companies may calculate TCE in a different manner. TCE and tangible 
book value per share are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes these 
capital metrics provide useful information, as they are used by investors and 
industry analysts.In millions of dollars or shares, except per share amounts
December 31, 2014ˇ
Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$210,534š
10,468Common equity$200,066š
23,592
4,566
71žTangible common equity (TCE)
$171,837šCommon shares outstanding (CSO)3,023.9Tangible book value per share (TCE/CSO)
$56.83šBook value per share (common equity/CSO)
$66.16š54RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, credit and market, liquidity, 
legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could 
impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. 
Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi 
or its management, could also negatively impact Citi™s businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be 
considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi 
may face.REGULATORY RISKSCiti Faces Ongoing Significant Regulatory Changes and 
Uncertainties in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions in 
Which It Operates That Negatively Impact the Management 
of Its Businesses and Increase Its Compliance Risks 
and Costs.
Citi continues to be subject to a significant number of regulatory changes 
and uncertainties across the U.S. and the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which 
it operates. Not only has the heightened regulatory environment facing 
financial institutions such as Citi resulted in a tendency toward more 
regulation, but also in some cases toward the most prescriptive regulation as 
regulatory agencies have often taken a restrictive approach to rulemaking, 
interpretive guidance, approvals and their general ongoing supervisory or 
prudential authority. Moreover, even when U.S. and international regulatory 
initiatives overlap, such as with derivatives reforms, in many instances they 
have not been undertaken on a coordinated basis, and areas of divergence 
have developed with respect to the scope, interpretation, timing, structure or 
approach, leading to additional, inconsistent or even conflicting regulations.Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi™s business 
planning difficult and could require Citi to change its business models or 
even its organizational structure, all of which could ultimately negatively 
impact Citi™s individual businesses, overall strategy and results of operations 

as well as realization of its deferred tax assets (DTAs). For example, several 

jurisdictions, including in Asia, Latin America and Europe, continue to enact 
fee and rate limits on debit and credit card transactions as well as various 
limits on sales practices for these and other areas of consumer lending, which 

could, among other things, negatively impact GCB™s businesses and revenues. 

In addition, during 2014, financial reform legislation was enacted in Mexico 
that required an antitrust study of the Mexican financial sector. The study 

has been issued and its recommendations include additional regulations 
intended to increase competition in the financial services industry in Mexico, 
which could negatively impact Citi™s Banamex subsidiary, Mexico™s second 

largest bank. In certain jurisdictions, including in the European Union (EU), 
there is discussion of adopting a financial transaction tax or similar fees on 
large financial institutions such as Citi, which could increase the costs to 
engage in certain transactions or otherwise negatively impact Citi™s results 

of operations. In addition, various regulators globally continue to consider 
adoption of data privacy and/or ﬁonshoringﬂ requirements, such as the EU 
data protection framework, that would restrict the storage and use of client information. These regulations could conflict with anti-money laundering 
and other requirements in other jurisdictions, impede information sharing 
between Citi™s businesses and increase Citi™s compliance risks and costs. 

They could also impede or potentially reverse Citi™s centralization or 

standardization efforts, which provide expense efficiencies.Unless and until there is sufficient regulatory certainty, Citi™s business 
planning and/or proposed pricing for affected businesses necessarily include 
assumptions based on possible or proposed rules, requirements or outcomes. 
Business planning is further complicated by management™s continual need to 

review and evaluate the impact on Citi™s businesses of ongoing rule proposals, 

final rules, and implementation guidance from numerous regulatory 
bodies worldwide, often within compressed timeframes. In some cases, 
management™s implementation of a regulatory requirement and assessment 

of its impact is occurring simultaneously with changing regulatory guidance, 
legal challenges or legislative action to modify or repeal final rules, thus 
increasing management uncertainty.
Ongoing regulatory changes also result in higher regulatory and compliance risks and costs. Citi estimates its regulatory and compliance costs 
have grown approximately 10% annually since 2011. These higher regulatory 

and compliance costs partially offset Citi™s continued cost reduction 

initiatives that are part of its execution priorities and negatively impact its 
results of operations. Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties also 
require management to continually manage Citi™s expenses and potentially 

reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business 
investment initiatives.There Continue to Be Changes and Uncertainties Relating to the Regulatory Capital Requirements Applicable to Citi 
and the Ultimate Impact of These Requirements on Citi™s 
Businesses, Products and Results of Operations.
Despite the adoption of the final U.S. Basel III rules, there continue to be 
changes and uncertainties regarding the regulatory capital requirements 
applicable to, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of these requirements 
on, Citi.Citi™s Basel III capital ratios and related components are subject to, 
among other things, ongoing regulatory supervision, including review and 
approval of Citi™s credit, market and operational risk models, additional 

refinements, modifications or enhancements (whether required or otherwise) 
to these models and any further implementation guidance in the U.S. 
Modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews, as well 
as the ongoing efforts by U.S. banking agencies to finalize and enhance the 
regulatory capital framework, have resulted and could continue to result 
in changes to Citi™s risk-weighted assets, total leverage exposure or other 

components of Citi™s capital ratios. These changes can negatively impact 

Citi™s capital ratios and its ability to achieve its capital requirements as it 

projects or as required. Further, because operational risk is measured based 

not only upon Citi™s historical loss experience but also upon ongoing events 

in the banking industry generally, Citi™s level of operational risk-weighted 

assets is likely to remain elevated for the foreseeable future, despite Citi™s 

continuing efforts to reduce its risk-weighted assets and exposures.55Moreover, in December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board issued a notice of 
proposed rulemaking that would establish a risk-based capital surcharge for global systemically important bank holding companies (GSIB) in the U.S., 
including Citi. The Federal Reserve Board™s proposal is based on the Basel 

Committee on Banking Supervision™s (Basel Committee) GSIB surcharge 

framework, but adds an alternative method for calculating a U.S. GSIBs score 
(and thus its GSIB surcharge), which Citi expects will result in a significantly 
higher surcharge than the 2% calculated under the Basel Committee™s 

framework (for additional information on the details of the proposal, see 
ﬁCapital ResourcesŠRegulatory Capital Standards Developmentsﬂ above).The Federal Reserve Board™s GSIB proposal creates ongoing uncertainty 
with respect to the ultimate surcharge applicable to Citi due to, among other 
things, the (i) requirement to recalculate the surcharge on an annual basis; 
(ii) complex calculations required to determine the amount of the surcharge; 
and (iii) the score for the indicators aligned with the Basel Committee GSIB 
framework is to be determined by converting Citi™s indicators into Euros and 

calibrating proportionally against a denominator based upon the aggregate 
indicator scores of other large global banking organizations, meaning 
that Citi™s score will fluctuate based on actions taken by these banking 

organizations, as well as movements in foreign exchange rates. Moreover, 

based on the Financial Stability Board™s (FSB) proposed ﬁtotal loss-absorbing 

capacityﬂ (TLAC) requirements, a higher GSIB surcharge would limit the 
amount of Common Equity Tier 1 Capital otherwise available to satisfy, in 

part, the TLAC requirements and thus potentially result in the need for Citi 
to issue higher levels of qualifying debt and preferred equity (for additional 
information, see ﬁRegulatory Risksﬂ and ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket 
RiskŠFunding and Liquidity Riskﬂ below).In addition to the Federal Reserve Board™s GSIB proposal, various other 
proposals which could impact Citi™s regulatory capital framework are also 

being considered by regulatory bodies both in the U.S. and internationally, 

which further contribute to the uncertainties faced by financial institutions, 
including Citi. For example, the SEC has indicated that it is considering 
adopting rules that would impose a leverage ratio requirement for U.S. 
broker-dealers, which could result in the reduction of certain types of short-

term funding, among other potential negative impacts. In addition, the 
Basel Committee continues to review and revise various aspects of its rules, 
including its model-based capital framework and standardized approaches to 
market, credit and operational risk.As a result of these ongoing uncertainties, Citi™s capital planning and 
management remains challenging. The Federal Reserve Board™s GSIB 

surcharge and other U.S. and international proposals could require Citi to 
further increase its capital and limit or otherwise restrict how Citi utilizes its 
capital, which could negatively impact its businesses, product offerings and 
results of operations. It also remains uncertain as to what the overall impact 
of these regulatory capital changes will be on Citi™s competitive position, 

among both domestic and international peers.Citi™s Inability to Enhance its 2015 Resolution Plan 
Submission Could Subject Citi to More Stringent Capital, 
Leverage or Liquidity Requirements, or Restrictions on Its 
Growth, Activities or Operations, and Could Eventually 
Require Citi to Divest Assets or Operations in Ways That 
Could Negatively Impact Its Operations or Strategy.
Title I of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) requires Citi to prepare and submit annually a 
plan for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) 
and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other 
applicable insolvency law in the event of future material financial distress 
or failure. Citi is also required to prepare and submit an annual resolution 
plan for its primary insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., 
and to demonstrate how Citibank, N.A. is adequately protected from the risks 
presented by non-bank affiliates. These plans, which require substantial 
effort, time and cost across all of Citi™s businesses and geographies, are 
subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC.In August 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC announced the completion of reviews of the 2013 resolution plans submitted by Citi 
and 10 other financial institutions. The agencies identified shortcomings 
with the firms™ 2013 resolution plans, including Citi™s. These shortcomings 

generally included (i) assumptions that the agencies regarded as unrealistic 
or inadequately supported, such as assumptions about the likely behavior 
of customers, counterparties, investors, central clearing facilities, and 
regulators; and (ii) the failure to make, or identify, the kinds of changes in 

firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects 
for orderly resolution. At the same time, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC 
indicated that if the identified shortcomings are not addressed in the firms™ 
2015 plan submissions, the agencies expect to use their authority under Title 

I of the Dodd-Frank Act.Under Title I, if the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine 
that Citi™s 2015 resolution plan is not ﬁcredibleﬂ (which, although not 

defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the 
plan is feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a 
way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic 
disruption), Citi could be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or 
liquidity requirements or restrictions, or restrictions on its growth, activities 
or operations, and eventually be required to divest certain assets or operations 
in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy. In August 

2014, the FDIC determined that the 2013 resolution plans submitted by the 
11 ﬁfirst waveﬂ filers, including Citi, were ﬁnot credible.ﬂOther jurisdictions, such as the U.K., have also requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, including Citi, and 
the requirements and timing relating to these plans are or are expected to 
be different from the U.S. requirements and from each other. Responding 

to these additional requests will require additional effort, time and cost, 
and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could be in 
addition to, or conflict with, changes required by Citi™s regulators in the U.S.
56There Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Regarding the Implementation of Orderly Liquidation Authority and 
the Impact It Could Have on Citi™s Funding and Liquidity, 
Results of Operations and Competitiveness.
Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain 
circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, 
including Citi. The FDIC has released a notice describing its preferred ﬁsingle 
point of entry strategyﬂ for such resolution, pursuant to which, generally, 
a bank holding company would be placed in receivership, the unsecured 
long-term debt of the holding company would bear losses and the operating 
subsidiaries would be recapitalized.Consistent with this strategy, in November 2014, the FSB issued a 
consultative document designed to ensure that GSIBs have sufficient 
loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity in resolution to implement 
an orderly resolution. Specifically, the proposal would (i) establish a new 

firm-specific minimum requirement for TLAC; (ii) stipulate which liabilities 
of the GSIB would be eligible TLAC; and (iii) the location of the TLAC within 
the firm™s overall funding structure, including the ﬁpre-positioningﬂ of 

specified amounts of TLAC to identified material subsidiaries within the 
firm™s structure, including international entities (for additional information 

on the TLAC proposal, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding 
and Liquidity Riskﬂ below). It is expected that the Federal Reserve Board 
will issue a proposal to establish similar TLAC requirements for U.S. GSIBs 
during 2015.There are significant uncertainties and interpretive issues arising from the FSB proposal, including (i) the minimum TLAC requirement for Citi; (ii) the 
amount of Citi™s TLAC that must be pre-positioned to material subsidiaries 

within Citi™s structure, and the identification of those entities; and (iii) which 

of Citi™s existing long-term liabilities constitute eligible TLAC. Moreover, 

based on the FSB™s proposal, the minimum TLAC requirement must be met 

excluding regulatory capital instruments used to satisfy Citi™s regulatory 

capital buffers, resulting in a higher overall TLAC requirement consisting 
of the required TLAC minimum plus required capital buffers. As a result, as 
discussed in the regulatory capital risk factor above, a higher GSIB surcharge 
would potentially result in the need for Citi to issue higher levels of qualifying 
debt and preferred equity. The FSB™s proposal also provides guidance for 

regulatory authorities to determine additional TLAC requirements, specific to 
individual financial institutions. Accordingly, similar to the Federal Reserve 

Board™s U.S. GSIB proposal, the Federal Reserve Board could propose TLAC 

requirements for Citi that are higher or more stringent than its international 
peers or even its U.S. peers.To the extent Citi does not meet any final minimum TLAC requirement, 
it would need to re-position its funding profile, including potentially issuing 
additional TLAC-eligible instruments and/or replacing existing non-TLAC 
eligible funding with TLAC-eligible funding. This could increase Citi™s costs 

of funds, alter its current funding and liquidity planning and management 
and/or negatively impact its revenues and results of operations. In addition, 
the requirement to pre-position TLAC-eligible instruments with material 
subsidiaries could result in significant funding inefficiencies, increase Citi™s 
overall liquidity requirements by reducing the fungibility of its funding 
sources and require certain of Citi™s subsidiaries to replace lower cost funding 

with other higher cost funding. Furthermore, Citi could be at a competitive 
disadvantage versus financial institutions that are not subject to such 
minimum requirements, such as non-regulated financial intermediaries, 
smaller financial institutions and entities in jurisdictions with less onerous or 
no such requirements.The Impact to Citi™s Derivatives Businesses, Results of Operations and Competitive Position Resulting from the 
Ongoing Implementation of Derivatives Regulation in the 
U.S. and Globally Continues to Be Difficult to Predict.
The ongoing implementation of derivatives regulations in the U.S. as 
well as in non-U.S. jurisdictions has impacted, and will likely continue to 
substantially impact, the derivatives markets. However, given the additional 
rulemaking expected to occur as well as the ongoing interpretive issues 
across jurisdictions, it is not yet possible to determine what the ultimate 
impact to Citi™s global derivatives businesses, results of operations and 
competitive position will be.For example, under the CFTC™s rules relating to the registration of swap 
execution facilities (SEF), certain non-U.S. trading platforms that do not 
want to register with the CFTC as a SEF are prohibiting firms with U.S. 
contacts, such as Citi, from trading on their non-U.S. platforms. In addition, 
pursuant to the CFTC™s mandatory clearing requirements for the overseas 

branches of Citibank, N.A., certain of Citi™s non-U.S. clients have ceased to 

clear their swaps with Citi given the mandatory requirement. More broadly, 

under the CFTC™s cross-border guidance, overseas clients who transact their 

derivatives business with overseas branches of U.S. banks, including Citi, 
could be subject to additional U.S. registration and derivatives requirements, 
and these clients continue to look for alternatives to dealing with overseas 
branches of U.S. banks as a result. All of these and similar changes have 
resulted in some bifurcated activity in the swaps marketplace, between U.S.-
person and non-U.S.-person markets, which could disproportionately impact 
Citi given its global footprint.In addition, in September 2014, U.S. regulators re-proposed rules relating to margin requirements for uncleared swaps. As re-proposed, the rules would 
require Citibank, N.A. to both collect and post margin to counterparties, 
as well as collect and post margin to its affiliates, in connection with any 
uncleared swap, with the initial margin required to be held by unaffiliated 
third-party custodians. As a result, any new margin requirements could 
significantly increase the cost to Citibank, N.A. and its counterparties of 
conducting uncleared swaps. In addition, the requirements would also apply 
to the non-U.S. branches of Citibank, N.A. and certain non-U.S. affiliates, 
which could result in further competitive disadvantages for Citi if it is 
required to collect margin on uncleared swaps in non-U.S. jurisdictions prior 
to competitors in those jurisdictions being required to do so, if required to do 
so at all.Further, the EU continues to finalize various aspects of its European 
Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), and the EU and CFTC have yet to 
render any ﬁequivalencyﬂ determinations (i.e., regulatory acknowledgment 57of the equivalency of derivatives regimes), which has compounded the bifurcation of the swaps market, as noted above. Regulators in Asia also 
continue to finalize their derivatives reforms which, to date, have taken 
a different approach as compared to the EU or the U.S. Because most of 
these non-U.S. reforms are not yet finalized, it is uncertain to what extent 
the non-U.S. reforms will impose different, additional or even inconsistent 
requirements on Citi™s derivatives activities.
While the implementation and effectiveness of individual derivatives reforms may not in every case be significant, the cumulative impact of these 
reforms continues to be uncertain and could be material to Citi™s results of 

operations and the competitive position of its derivatives businesses.In addition, numerous aspects of the new derivatives regime require extensive compliance systems and processes to be maintained, including 
electronic recordkeeping, real-time public transaction reporting and 
external business conduct requirements (e.g., required swap counterparty 
disclosures). This compliance risk increases to the extent the final non-U.S. 
reforms are different from or inconsistent with the final U.S. reforms. Citi™s 

failure to effectively maintain such systems, across jurisdictions, could 
subject it to increased compliance costs and regulatory and reputational 
risks, particularly given the heightened regulatory environment in which Citi 
operates globally.
The Continued Implementation of the Volcker Rule and Similar Reform Efforts Subject Citi to Regulatory and 
Compliance Risks and Costs.
Although the rules implementing the restrictions under the Volcker Rule 
were finalized in December 2013, and the conformance period was generally 
extended to July 2015, the final rules require Citi to develop an extensive 
compliance regime for the ﬁpermittedﬂ activities under the Volcker Rule, 
including documentation of historical trading activities with clients, 
individual testing and training, regulatory reporting, recordkeeping and 
similar requirements as well as an annual CEO certification with respect 
to the processes Citi has in place to ensure compliance with the final 
rules. Moreover, despite the passage of time since the adoption of the final 
rules, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the interpretation of 
certain provisions of the final rules, including with respect to the covered 
funds provisions and the permitted activities under the rules. As a result, 
Citi is required to make certain assumptions as to the degree to which 
its activities are permitted to continue. If Citi™s implementation of the 
required compliance regime is not consistent with regulatory expectations 
or requirements, or if Citi™s assumptions in implementation of the final 
rules are not accurate, Citi could be subject to increased regulatory and 
compliance risks and costs as well as potential reputational harm.Proposals for structural reform of banking entities, including restrictions on proprietary trading, also continue to be introduced in various non-U.S. 
jurisdictions, thus leading to overlapping or potentially conflicting regimes. 
For example, in the EU, the Bank Structural Reform draft directive (formerly 
known as the ﬁLiikanenﬂ or ﬁBarnierﬂ Proposal) would prohibit proprietary 
trading by in-scope credit institutions and banking groups, such as certain 
of Citi™s EU branches, and potentially result in the mandatory separation 
of certain trading activities into a trading entity legally, economically and 

operationally separate from the legal entity holding the banking activities of 
a firm.It is likely that, given Citi™s worldwide operations, some form of these or 
other proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading will eventually be 
applicable to a portion of Citi™s operations. While the Volcker Rule and these 

non-U.S. proposals are intended to address similar concernsŠseparating 
the perceived risks of proprietary trading and certain other investment 
banking activities in order not to affect more traditional banking and retail 
activitiesŠthey would do so under different structures, which could result in 
inconsistent regulatory regimes and additional compliance risks and costs for 
Citi in light of its global activities.Recently Adopted and Future Regulations Applicable to Securitizations Could Impose Additional Costs and 
May Discourage Citi from Performing Certain Roles 
in Securitizations.
Citi endeavors to play a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, 
including acting as underwriter, issuer, sponsor, depositor, trustee and 
counterparty. During the latter part of 2014, numerous regulatory 
changes relating to securitizations were finalized, including risk retention 
requirements for securitizers of certain assets and extensive changes to the SEC™s Regulation AB, including changes to the registration, disclosure and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities and other structured 
finance products.Because certain of these rules were recently adopted, the multi-agency implementation has just begun and extensive interpretive issues remain. 
As a result, the cumulative impact of these changes, as well as additional 
regulations yet to be finalized, both on Citi™s participation in these 

transactions as well as on the securitization markets generally, is uncertain. 

It is likely that many aspects of the new rules will increase the costs of 
securitization transactions. It is also possible that these changes may hinder 
the recovery of previously active securitization markets or decrease the 
attractiveness of Citi™s executing or participating in certain securitization 

transactions, including securitization transactions which Citi previously 
executed or in which it participated, such as private-label mortgage 
securitizations. This could in turn reduce the income Citi earns from 
these transactions or hinder Citi™s ability to use such transactions to hedge 

risks, reduce exposures or reduce assets with adverse risk-weighting within 
its businesses.58CREDIT AND MARKET RISKSMacroeconomic Challenges in the U.S. and Globally, Including in the Emerging Markets, Could Have a Negative 
Impact on Citi™s Businesses and Results of Operations.
Citi has experienced, and could experience in the future, negative impacts to 
its businesses and results of operations, such as elevated credit costs and/or 
decreased revenues in its Markets and securities services businesses, as 
a result of macroeconomic challenges, uncertainties and volatility. While 
the U.S. economy continues to improve, it remains susceptible to global 
events and volatility. Moreover, U.S. fiscal and monetary actions, or expected 
actions, can also impact not only the U.S. but global markets and economies 
as well as Citi™s businesses and results of operations. For example, the Federal 
Reserve Board may begin to increase short-term interest rates during 2015. 
Speculation about the timing of such a change has previously resulted in 
significant volatility in the U.S. and global markets. While Citi expects certain 
positive impacts as a result, such as an increase in net interest revenue 
(for additional information, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠ
Price Riskﬂ below), the ultimate impact to Citi™s businesses and results of 
operations will depend on the timing, amount and market and consumer or 
other reactions to any such increases.In addition, concerns remain regarding various U.S. government fiscal challenges and events that could occur as a result, such as a potential U.S. 
government shutdown or default. In recent years, these issues, including 
potential or actual ratings downgrades of U.S. debt obligations, have 
adversely affected U.S. and global financial markets, economic conditions 
and Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition, and they 

could do so again in the future.Outside of the U.S., the global economic recovery remains uneven and uncertain. The economic and fiscal situations of several European countries 
remain fragile, and geopolitical tensions throughout the region, including 
in Russia, have added to the uncertainties. Fiscal and monetary actions, or 
expected actions, throughout the region have further impacted the global 
financial markets as well as Citi™s businesses and results of operations. While 

concerns relating to sovereign defaults or a partial or complete break-up of 
the European Monetary Union (EMU), including potential accompanying 
redenomination risks and uncertainties, seemed to have abated during 2014, 
such concerns have resurfaced with the election of a new government in 
Greece in January 2015 (for Citi™s third-party assets and liabilities in Greece 

as of December 31, 2014, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCountry and Cross-
Border Riskﬂ below).Slower growth in certain emerging markets, such as China, has also occurred, whether due to global macroeconomic conditions or geopolitical 
tensions, governmental or regulatory policies or economic conditions within 
the particular region or country (for additional information on risks specific 
to the emerging markets, see the risk factor below). Given Citi™s strategy and 

focus on the emerging markets, actual or perceived uncertainty regarding future economic growth in the emerging markets has impacted and could 
continue to negatively impact Citi™s businesses and results of operations, and 

Citi could be disproportionately impacted as compared to its competitors. 
Further, if a particular country™s economic situation were to deteriorate below 

a certain level, U.S. regulators can and have imposed mandatory loan loss 
and other reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its cost 
of credit and earnings, perhaps significantly (see, e.g., ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠCountry and Cross-Border RiskŠArgentinaﬂ below).Citi™s Extensive Global Network Subjects It to Various International and Emerging Markets Risks as well as 
Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.
During 2014, international revenues accounted for approximately 58%, 
and emerging markets revenues accounted for approximately 40%, of Citi™s 
total revenues (for additional information on how Citi defines the emerging 
markets as well as its exposures in certain of these markets, see ﬁManaging 
Global RiskŠCountry and Cross-Border Riskﬂ below).Citi™s extensive global network subjects it to a number of risks associated 
with international and emerging markets. These risks can include sovereign 
volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations on 

foreign investment, sociopolitical instability, fraud, nationalization or loss 

of licenses, sanctions, potential criminal charges, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, Citi operates in several countries that have strict foreign exchange controls, such as Argentina and 
Venezuela, that limit its ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars 

and/or transfer funds outside the country. During 2014, Citi discovered 

certain frauds involving its Mexico subsidiary, Banamex. There have also 

been instances of political turmoil and other instability in certain countries 
in which Citi operates, such as in Russia, Ukraine and the Middle East, which 
have required management time and attention (e.g., monitoring the impact 
of sanctions on Russian entities, business sectors, individuals or otherwise on 
Citi™s businesses and results of operations).
Citi™s extensive global operations also increase its compliance and 
regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi™s operations in emerging 

markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its 
clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily 
focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-
laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks 
can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial 
investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction 
in certain of Citi™s business activities. Any failure by Citi to comply with 

applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries and 
markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of which could negatively impact Citi™s earnings and its reputation.
59Citi™s Results of Operations Could Be Negatively Impacted as Its Revolving Home Equity Lines of Credit Continue 
to ﬁReset.ﬂ
As of December 31, 2014, Citi™s home equity loan portfolio of approximately 
$28.1 billion included approximately $16.7 billion of home equity lines of 
credit that were still within their revolving period and had not commenced 
amortization, or ﬁresetﬂ (Revolving HELOCs). Of these Revolving HELOCs, 
approximately 78% will commence amortization during the period of 
2015Œ2017 (for additional information, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit 
RiskŠNorth America Consumer Mortgage Lendingﬂ below).Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans. Upon amortization, these 
borrowers are required to pay both interest, usually at a variable rate, and 
principal that typically amortizes over 20 years, rather than the typical 
30-year amortization. As a result, Citi™s customers with Revolving HELOCs 

that reset could experience ﬁpayment shockﬂ due to the higher required 
payments on the loans. Increases in interest rates could further increase 
these payments, given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans 
post-reset.Based on the limited number of Citi™s Revolving HELOCs that have reset 
as of December 31, 2014, Citi has experienced a higher 30+ days past due 
delinquency rate on its amortizing home equity loans as compared to its total 
outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). 
Moreover, a portion of the resets that have occurred to date occurred during 

a period of declining interest rates, which Citi believes likely reduced the 
overall payment shock to borrowers. While Citi continues to monitor this 
reset risk closely and review and take additional actions to offset potential 
reset risk, increasing interest rates, stricter lending criteria and high borrower 
loan-to-value positions could limit Citi™s ability to reduce or mitigate this 

reset risk going forward. Accordingly, as these loans continue to reset, Citi 

could experience higher delinquency rates and increased loan loss reserves 
and net credit losses in future periods, which could be significant and would 
negatively impact its results of operations.Concentrations of Risk Can Increase the Potential for Citi to Incur Significant Losses.
Concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can increase Citi™s 
risk of significant losses. As of December 31, 2014, Citi™s most significant 
concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies, 
which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued by the 
U.S. government and its agencies (for additional information, see Note 
24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi also routinely executes 
a high volume of securities, trading, derivative and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks 
and government and central banks. To the extent regulatory or market 
developments lead to increased centralization of trading activity through 
particular clearing houses, central agents or exchanges, this could also 
increase Citi™s concentration of risk in this industry. Concentrations of risk 
can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi™s hedging strategies and 
have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they may do so again in 
the future.LIQUIDITY RISKSCiti™s Liquidity Planning, Management and Funding Could 
Be Negatively Impacted by the Heightened Regulatory 
Focus on and Continued Changes to Liquidity Standards 
and Requirements.
In September 2014, the U.S. banking agencies adopted final rules with 
respect to the U.S. Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) (for additional 
information on the final LCR requirements, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠ
Market RiskŠFunding and Liquidity Riskﬂ below). Implementation of 
the final LCR requirements requires Citi to maintain extensive compliance 
procedures and systems, including systems to calculate Citi™s LCR daily 
once the rules are fully implemented. Moreover, Citi™s liquidity planning, 
stress testing and management remains subject to heightened regulatory 
scrutiny and review, including pursuant to the Federal Reserve Board™s 
Comprehensive Liquidity Analysis and Review (CLAR) as well as regulators™ 
enhanced prudential standards authority. If Citi™s interpretation or 
implementation of the LCR requirements, or its overall liquidity planning 
and management, is not consistent with regulatory expectations or 
requirements, Citi™s funding and liquidity could be negatively impacted and 
it could incur increased compliance risks and costs.In addition, in October 2014, the Basel Committee adopted final rules relating to the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), and the U.S. banking 
agencies are expected to propose U.S. NSFR rules during 2015 (for additional 
information on the Basel Committee™s final NSFR rules, see ﬁManaging 

Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidity Riskﬂ below). Several 
aspects of the Basel Committee™s final NSFR rules will likely require further 

analysis and clarification, including with respect to the calculation of 
derivative assets and liabilities and netting of these assets. The final rules also 
leave discretion to national supervisors (i.e., the U.S. banking agencies) in 
several areas. Accordingly, like other areas of regulatory reform, it remains 

uncertain whether the U.S. NSFR rules might be more restrictive than the 
Basel Committee™s final NSFR. It also remains uncertain whether other 

entities or subsidiaries within Citi™s structure will be required to comply with 

the NSFR requirements, as well as the parameters of any such requirements.Until these parameters are known, it is not possible to determine the potential impact to Citi™s, or its subsidiaries™, liquidity planning, 

management or funding. Moreover, to the extent other jurisdictions propose 

or adopt quantitative liquidity requirements that differ from any of the Basel 
Committee™s or the U.S. liquidity requirements, Citi could be at a competitive 

disadvantage because of its global footprint or could be required to meet 
different minimum liquidity standards in some or all of the jurisdictions in 
which it operates.For a discussion of the potential negative impacts to Citi™s liquidity 
planning, management and funding resulting from the U.S. GSIB 
capital surcharge proposal and the FSB™s TLAC proposal, see ﬁRegulatory 

Risksﬂ above.60The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of 
Citi™s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in 
Citi™s Credit Spreads.
As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding 
are essential to Citi™s businesses. Citi™s liquidity and sources of funding can 
be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such 
as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and 
monetary policies, or negative investor perceptions of Citi™s creditworthiness.In addition, Citi™s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding 
and long-term unsecured funding are directly related to its credit spreads. 
Changes in credit spreads constantly occur and are market driven, including 
both external market factors and factors specific to Citi, and can be highly 
volatile. Citi™s credit spreads may also be influenced by movements in the 

costs to purchasers of credit default swaps referenced to Citi™s long-term debt, 

which are also impacted by these external and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, 

Citi™s ability to obtain funding may be impaired if other market participants 

are seeking to access the markets at the same time, or if market appetite is 
reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, 
clearing organizations, regulators, clients and financial institutions with 
which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral 
based on these market perceptions or market conditions, which could further 
impair Citi™s access to and cost of funding.
As a holding company, Citi relies on dividends, distributions and other 
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt 
and other obligations. Several of Citi™s U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are 

or may be subject to capital adequacy or other regulatory or contractual 
restrictions on their ability to provide such payments, including any local 
regulatory stress test requirements or the proposed TLAC requirements (see 
ﬁRegulatory Risksﬂ above). Limitations on the payments that Citi receives 
from its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity.
The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the 
Credit Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, 
and Ratings Downgrades Could Have a Negative Impact 
on Citi™s Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding 
Capacity and Increased Funding Costs, Including 
Derivatives Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations 
or Collateral Requirements.
The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody™s and S&P, continuously 
evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi 
and its more significant subsidiaries™ long-term/senior debt and 
short-term/commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of 
factors, including standalone financial strength, as well as factors not 
entirely within the control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies™ 
proprietary rating agency methodologies and assumptions, the rating 
agencies™ ﬁgovernment support upliftﬂ assumptions, and conditions affecting 
the financial services industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. Ratings downgrades could negatively impact Citi™s ability 

to access the capital markets and other sources of funds as well as the costs of 
those funds, and its ability to maintain certain deposits. A ratings downgrade 
could also have a negative impact on Citi™s funding and liquidity due to 

reduced funding capacity, including derivative triggers, which could take the 

form of cash obligations and collateral requirements. In addition, a ratings 
downgrade could also have a negative impact on other funding sources, 
such as secured financing and other margined transactions for which there 
are no explicit triggers, as well as on contractual provisions, which contain 
minimum ratings thresholds in order for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts, which may 
not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For 

example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible 
counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain 
of Citi™s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, 

could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading 
of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings 
downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact 
not only Citi™s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of 

certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of 
a reduction in Citi™s or Citibank, N.A.™s credit ratings, see ﬁManaging Global 

RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and LiquidityŠCredit Ratingsﬂ below.
61LEGAL RISKSCiti Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries That Could 
Result in Significant Penalties and Other Impacts on Citi, 
Its Businesses and Results of Operations.
At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and 
regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and 
regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. The frequency 
with which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated, 
and the severity of the remedies sought (and in several cases obtained), 
have increased substantially over the last few years, and the global judicial, 
regulatory and political environment generally remains hostile to large 
financial institutions such as Citi.Continued heightened scrutiny of the financial services industry by regulators and other enforcement authorities has led to questioning of 
industry practices and additional expectations regarding Citi™s management 

and oversight of third parties doing business with Citi (e.g., vendors). In 
addition, U.S. and non-U.S. regulators are increasingly focused on ﬁconduct 
risk,ﬂ a term that is used to describe the risks associated with misconduct 
by employees and agents that could harm consumers, investors, or the 
markets, such as failures to safeguard consumers™ and investors™ personal 
information and improperly creating, selling and marketing products and 
services, among other forms of misconduct. The increased scrutiny and 
expectations of financial institutions, including Citi, and the questioning of 
the overall ﬁcultureﬂ of Citi and the financial services industry generally as 
well as the effectiveness of Citi™s control functions, has and could continue to 

lead to more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. While Citi takes 
numerous steps to prevent and detect misconduct by employees and agents, 
misconduct may not always be deterred or prevented.In addition, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of Citi™s 

operations and the continued aggressiveness of the regulatory environment 
worldwide, also means that a single event may give rise to a large number 
of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple 
federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other 
governmental entities in different jurisdictions.For example, Citi is subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations, including by the Antitrust Division and the 
Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, relating to Citi™s 

contribution to, or trading in products linked to, rates or benchmarks. 
These rates and benchmarks may relate to foreign exchange rates (such as 
the WM/Reuters fix), interest rates (such as the London Inter-Bank Offered 

Rate (LIBOR) or ISDAFIX), or other prices. Like other banks with operations 
in the U.S., Citi is also subject to continuing oversight by bank regulators, 
and inquiries and investigations by other governmental and regulatory 
authorities, with respect to its anti-money laundering program.The severity of the remedies sought in these and the other legal and regulatory proceedings to which Citi is subject has increased substantially 
in recent years. U.S. and certain international governmental entities 
have emphasized a willingness to bring criminal actions against, or seek 
criminal convictions from, financial institutions, and criminal prosecutors in the U.S. have increasingly sought and obtained criminal guilty pleas 
or deferred prosecution agreements against corporate entities and other 
criminal sanctions from those institutions. Such actions can have significant 
collateral consequences for a subject financial institution, including loss 
of customers and business, and the inability to offer certain products or 
services and/or operate certain businesses. In addition, in recent years Citi 
has entered into consent orders and paid substantial fines and penalties, 
or provided monetary and other relief, in connection with the resolution 
of its extensive legal and regulatory matters. Citi may be required to accept 
or be subject to similar types of criminal or other remedies, fines, penalties 
and other requirements in the future, any of which could materially and 
negatively affect Citi™s businesses, business practices, financial condition or 

results of operations, require material changes in Citi™s operations, or cause 

Citi reputational harm. Resolution of these matters also results in significant 
time, expense and diversion of management™s attention.
Further, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex 
and slow to develop, and may involve novel or untested legal theories. The 
outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until late in the 
proceedings, which may last several years. Although Citi establishes accruals 
for its legal and regulatory matters according to accounting requirements, 
the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those matters may 
be substantially higher than the amounts accrued. In addition, certain 
settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved.For additional information relating to Citi™s legal and regulatory 
proceedings, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.62BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKSCiti™s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results 
of Regulatory Stress Tests.
In addition to Board of Directors™ approval, any decision by Citi to return 
capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock 
dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends on 
regulatory approval, including through the annual Comprehensive Capital 
Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve Board 
and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act.In March 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it objected to the capital plan submitted by Citi as part of the 2014 CCAR process, 
meaning Citi was not able to increase its return of capital to shareholders 
as it had requested. Citi must address the Federal Reserve Board™s concerns, 

expectations and requirements regarding Citi™s capital planning process 

in order to return additional capital to shareholders under the 2015 CCAR 
process. Restrictions on Citi™s ability to return capital to shareholders as a 

result of the 2014 CCAR process negatively impacted market and investor 
perceptions of Citi, and continued restrictions could do so in the future.Citi™s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome 
of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market or investor 
perceptions, is complicated by the Federal Reserve Board™s evolving criteria 

employed in its overall aggregate assessment of Citi. The Federal Reserve 
Board™s assessment of Citi is conducted not only by using the Board™s 

proprietary stress test models, but also a number of qualitative factors, 
including a detailed assessment of Citi™s ﬁcapital adequacy process,ﬂ as 

defined by the Federal Reserve Board. These qualitative factors were cited 
by the Federal Reserve Board in its objection to Citi™s 2014 capital plan, and 

the Board has stated that it expects leading capital adequacy practices will 
continue to evolve and will likely be determined by the Board each year as a 
result of its cross-firm review of capital plan submissions.Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated 
goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several 
parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to 
time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, Federal Reserve Board 
modeling of Citi™s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed 

important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., a counterparty failure). In 
addition, as part of the Federal Reserve Board™s U.S. GSIB proposal, the 

Federal Reserve Board indicated that it may consider, at some point in 

the future, that some or all of Citi™s GSIB surcharge be integrated into its 

post-stress test minimum capital requirements. These parameter and other 
alterations could further increase the level of capital Citi must meet as 
part of the stress tests, thus potentially impacting levels of capital returns 
to shareholders.Further, because it is not clear how the Federal Reserve Board™s proprietary 
stress test models and qualitative assessment may differ from the modeling 
techniques and capital planning practices employed by Citi, it is likely that 
Citi™s stress test results (using its own models, estimation methodologies and 

processes) may not be consistent with those disclosed by the Federal Reserve 
Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion and impacts to Citi™s 

perception in the market.Citi™s Ability to Achieve Its 2015 Efficiency and Return 
on Assets Targets Will Depend in Part on the Successful 
Achievement of Its Execution Priorities.
In March 2013, Citi established 2015 financial targets for Citicorp™s operating 
efficiency ratio and Citigroup™s return on assets. Citi™s ability to achieve these 
targets will depend in part on the successful achievement of its execution 
priorities, including efficient resource allocation, which includes disciplined 
expense management; a continued focus on the wind-down of Citi Holdings 
and maintaining Citi Holdings at or above ﬁbreak evenﬂ; and utilization 
of its DTAs (see below). Citi™s ability to achieve its targets will also depend 
on factors which it cannot control, such as ongoing regulatory changes, 
continued higher regulatory and compliance costs and macroeconomic 
conditions, among others. While Citi continues to take actions to achieve its 
execution priorities, there is no guarantee that Citi will be successful.Citi continues to pursue its disciplined expense-management strategy, 
including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving efficiency. 

However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to reduce its level of 

expenses as a result of announced repositioning actions, efficiency initiatives 
or otherwise, and investments Citi has made in its businesses, or may make 
in the future, may not be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all. 
Citi™s expenses also depend, in part, on factors not entirely within its control. 

For example, during 2014, Citi incurred significant legal and related costs 
in order to resolve various of its extensive legal and regulatory proceedings 
and inquiries. In order to achieve its 2015 financial targets, Citi will need 
to significantly reduce its legal and related costs, as well as repositioning 
expenses, from 2014 levels.In addition, while Citi has made significant progress in winding-down Citi Holdings over the last several years, maintaining Citi Holdings at or above 
ﬁbreak evenﬂ in 2015 will be important to achieving its return on assets 
target. As discussed under ﬁGlobal Consumer Bankingﬂ and ﬁInstitutional 
Clients Groupﬂ above, beginning in the first quarter of 2015, Citi will be 
reporting certain of its non-core consumer and institutional businesses 
as part of Citi Holdings. While Citi expects to maintain Citi Holdings at or 
above ﬁbreak evenﬂ in 2015 even with the inclusion of these businesses, 
it may not be able to do so due to factors it cannot control, as described 
above. In addition, as described under ﬁCiti Holdingsﬂ above, the remaining 
assets in Citi Holdings as of December 31, 2014 consisted of North America consumer mortgages as well as larger remaining businesses, including 
Citi™s legacy CitiFinancial business, and, beginning in the first quarter of 

2015, the non-core consumer and institutional businesses referenced above. 
While Citi™s strategy continues to be to reduce the assets in Citi Holdings as 

quickly as practicable in an economically rational manner, and it expects 

to substantially complete the exit of the consumer businesses moved to 
Citi Holdings in the first quarter by the end of 2015, sales of the remaining 
larger businesses in Citi Holdings will also depend on factors outside of Citi™s 

control, such as market appetite and buyer funding, and the remaining 
mortgage assets will largely continue to be subject to ongoing run-off and 
opportunistic sales. As a result, Citi Holdings™ remaining assets could have a 
negative impact on Citi™s overall results of operations or financial condition.
63Citi™s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi™s Regulatory 
Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. 
Taxable Income.
At December 31, 2014, Citi™s net DTAs were $49.5 billion, of which 
approximately $34.3 billion was excluded from Citi™s Common Equity Tier 1 
Capital, on a fully implemented basis, under the final U.S. Basel III rules (for 
additional information, see ﬁCapital ResourcesŠComponents of Capital 
under Basel III (Advanced Approaches with Full Implementation)ﬂ above). 
In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2014, approximately $17.6 billion 
related to foreign tax credit carry-forwards (FTCs). The carry-forward 
utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive 
component of Citi™s DTAs. Of the FTCs at year-end 2014, approximately 
$1.9 billion expire in 2017, $5.2 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining 
$10.5 billion expire over the period of 2019Œ2023. Citi must utilize any FTCs 
generated in the then-current year prior to utilizing any carry-forward FTCs.The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is 
complex and requires significant judgment and estimates regarding future 
taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available 

tax planning strategies. Citi™s ability to utilize its DTAs, including the 

FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the DTAs for more 

productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi™s ability to generate U.S. 

taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward periods. Failure to realize 
any portion of the DTAs would also have a corresponding negative impact on 

Citi™s net income.
In addition, with regard to FTCs, utilization will be influenced by actions to optimize U.S. taxable earnings for the purpose of consuming the 
FTC carry-forward component of the DTAs prior to expiration. These FTC 

actions, however, may serve to increase the DTAs for other less time sensitive 

components. Moreover, tax return limitations on FTCs and general business 

credits that cause Citi to incur current tax expense, notwithstanding its tax 
carry-forward position, could impact the rate of overall DTA utilization.
DTA utilization will also continue to be driven by movements in Citi™s 
Accumulated other comprehensive income, which can be impacted by 
changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.For additional information on Citi™s DTAs, including the FTCs, see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesŠIncome Taxesﬂ 

below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Value of Citi™s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced If 
Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State or Foreign 
Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the 
U.S. Corporate Tax System.
Congress and the Obama Administration have discussed decreasing the U.S. 
corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain local, 
state and foreign jurisdictions, including in New York City and Japan. While 
Citi may benefit in some respects from any decrease in corporate tax rates, 
a reduction in the U.S., state or foreign corporate tax rates could result in a 
decrease, perhaps significant, in the value of Citi™s DTAs, which would result 
in a reduction to Citi™s net income during the period in which the change is 
enacted. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping changes 
to the U.S. tax system. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax reform 
proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect 
Citi™s DTAs.Citi™s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the 
Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in 
the Payment of Additional Taxes and Penalties.
Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and 
municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its 
entities, operations and businesses. Citi™s interpretations and application 
of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and 
stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant 
governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the 
payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material.Citi™s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of 
Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological 
Risks Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential 
Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi™s 
Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties 
and Financial Losses.
A significant portion of Citi™s operations relies heavily on the secure 
processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information 
as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on 
a minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its Global Consumer Banking, credit card and securities services businesses, Citi obtains and 
stores an extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the 
evolving proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the 
Internet and mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global 
financial institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject 
to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.64Citi™s computer systems, software and networks are subject to ongoing 
cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; 
unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber 
attacks; and other events. These threats may arise from human error, 

fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result 
from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed 
by external parties, including extremist parties and certain foreign state 
actors that engage in cyber activities as a means to promote political ends. 
As further evidence of the increasing and potentially significant impact of 
cyber incidents, during 2014, certain U.S. financial institutions reported 
cyber incidents affecting their computer systems that resulted in the data 
of millions of customers being compromised. In addition, several U.S. 
retailers and other multinational companies reported cyber incidents that 
compromised customer data.While these incidents did not impact, or did not have a material impact, on Citi, Citi has been subject to other intentional cyber incidents from 
external sources over the last several years, including (i) denial of service 
attacks, which attempted to interrupt service to clients and customers; 
(ii) data breaches, which aimed to obtain unauthorized access to customer 
account data; and (iii) malicious software attacks on client systems, which 
attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi™s systems under the guise 

of a client and the extraction of client data. While Citi™s monitoring and 

protection services were able to detect and respond to the incidents targeting 
its systems before they became significant, they still resulted in limited losses 
in some instances as well as increases in expenditures to monitor against the 
threat of similar future cyber incidents. There can be no assurance that such 
cyber incidents will not occur again, and they could occur more frequently 
and on a more significant scale.Although Citi devotes significant resources to implement, maintain, monitor and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures 
such as intrusion detection and prevention and firewalls to safeguard 
critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or 
any other measures can provide absolute security. In addition, because the 

methods used to cause cyber attacks change frequently or, in some cases, are 

not recognized until launched, Citi may be unable to implement effective 
preventive measures or proactively address these methods.If Citi were to be subject to a cyber incident, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to Citi™s reputation 

with its clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to 
Citi (such as repairing systems, replacing customer payment cards or adding 
new personnel or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to 
litigation and other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. 
Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations 
of Citi (such as the lack of availability of Citi™s online banking system or 

mobile banking platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers 
or other third parties. Given Citi™s global footprint and the high volume of 

transactions processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or 
compounded before they are discovered and rectified, which would further 
increase these costs and consequences.Third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, 
such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content 
on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and 

services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer 
information by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could 
result in service disruptions or website defacements, and the potential to 
introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi 
customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure 
resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control 
assessments, limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary 
to perform job functions and restricting third-party processing to systems 
stored within Citi™s data centers, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized 

access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased 
costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, 
because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected 
with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including as a result of 
the derivatives reforms over the last few years, Citi has increased exposure to 
operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms 
and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain 
aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover 
all losses.Citi Maintains Co-Branding and Private Label Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants  
Within Its U.S. Credit Card Businesses in NA GCB, and the 
Failure to Maintain These Relationships Could Have a 
Significant Negative Impact on the Results of Operations  
or Financial Condition of Those Businesses.
Through its U.S. Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card 
businesses within North America Global Consumer Banking (NA GCB), 
Citi maintains numerous co-branding and private label relationships with 
third-party retailers and merchants in the ordinary course of business 
pursuant to which Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or 
merchants. Citi™s co-branding and private label agreements provide for 
shared economics between the parties and generally have a fixed term. 
Competition among card issuers such as Citi for these relationships is 
significant and these agreements may not be extended or renewed by 
the parties. These agreements could also be terminated due to, among 
other factors, a breach by Citi of its responsibilities under the applicable 
agreement, a breach by the retailer or merchant under the agreement, 
or external factors, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings or consolidations and other similar events that may occur. While various mitigating factors could be available in the event of the loss of one or more 
of these relationships, such as replacing the retailer or merchant or by Citi 
offering new card products, the results of operations or financial condition of 
Citi-branded cards or Citi retail services, as applicable, or NA GCB could be negatively impacted, and the impact could be significant.65Citi May Incur Significant Losses If Its Risk Management Models, Processes or Strategies Are Ineffective.
Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation 
processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models, in 
analyzing and monitoring the various risks Citi assumes in conducting 
its activities, such as credit, market and operational risks (for additional 
information regarding these areas of risk as well as risk management at Citi, 
see ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ below). For example, Citi uses models as part of 
its various stress testing initiatives across the firm. Management of these risks 
is made even more challenging within a global financial institution such as 
Citi, particularly given the complex, diverse and rapidly changing financial 
markets and conditions in which Citi operates.These models, processes and strategies are inherently limited because they involve techniques, including the use of historical data in some 
circumstances, and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic 
and financial outcome in the markets in which Citi operates nor can they 
anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur 
significant losses if its risk management models, processes or strategies are 
ineffective in properly anticipating or managing these risks.Citi™s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted If Citi Is Not Able to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi™s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is 
largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. 
Specifically, Citi™s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage 
its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy 
depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its 
existing employees. Citi™s ability to attract and retain employees depends on 
numerous factors, including its culture, compensation, the management and 
leadership of the company as well as its individual businesses, Citi™s presence 
in the particular market or region at issue and the professional opportunities 
it offers.The banking industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to 
incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation. 
Moreover, given its continued focus on the emerging markets, Citi is often 

competing for qualified employees in these markets with entities that have a 
significantly greater presence in the region or are not subject to significant 
regulatory restrictions on the structure of incentive compensation. If Citi 
is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees for any 
reason, Citi™s performance, including its competitive position, the successful 

execution of its overall strategy and its results of operations could be negatively impacted.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi™s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses 
in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and 
Reporting Standards or Interpretations Could Have a 
Material Impact on How Citi Records and Reports Its 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its 
financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss 
reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, valuation of 
DTAs and the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. 
If Citi™s assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are 
incorrect or differ from actual future events, Citi could experience unexpected 
losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently 
reviewing, or has proposed or issued, changes to several financial accounting 
and reporting standards that govern key aspects of Citi™s financial statements 

or interpretations thereof, including those areas where Citi is required to 
make assumptions or estimates. For example, the FASB has proposed a new 

accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses 
on financial instruments. The proposed accounting model would require 
that lifetime ﬁexpected credit lossesﬂ on financial assets not recorded at fair 
value through net income, such as loans and held-to-maturity securities, be 
recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the multiple existing 
impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally require that a loss be 
ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized. For additional information on this and 
other proposed changes, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards or interpretations, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could 

present operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of 
the assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial 
statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect 
to particular businesses. In addition, the FASB is seeking to converge U.S. 

GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to the extent 
IFRS provides an improvement to accounting standards. Any transition to 
IFRS could further have a material impact on how Citi records and reports 
its financial results. For additional information on the key areas for which 
assumptions and estimates are used in preparing Citi™s financial statements, 

see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ below and 
Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.6667MANAGING GLOBAL RISK TABLE OF CONTENTSMANAGING GLOBAL RISK68Overview68Citi™s Risk Management Organization
68Citi™s Compliance Organization
71CREDIT RISK (1)73Credit Risk Management73Credit Risk Measurement and Stress Testing
73Loans Outstanding74Details of Credit Loss Experience75Allowance for Loan Losses76Non-Accrual Loans and Assets, and Renegotiated Loans77North America Consumer Mortgage Lending80Consumer Loan Details87Corporate Credit Details90MARKET RISK (1)93Market Risk Management93Funding and Liquidity Risk93Overview93High Quality Liquid Assets94Deposits95Long-Term Debt
95Secured Funding Transactions and Short-Term Borrowings
98Liquidity Management, Stress Testing and Measurement
99Credit Ratings100Price Risk102Price Risk Measurement and Stress Testing
102Price RiskŠNon-Trading Portfolios (including Interest 
Rate Exposure)102Price RiskŠTrading Portfolios (including VAR)
110OPERATIONAL RISK115Operational Risk Management115Operational Risk Measurement and Stress Testing
115COUNTRY AND CROSS-BORDER RISK116Country Risk116Cross-Border Risk119˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‘’
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝
˝˝
˝68MANAGING GLOBAL RISKOverviewCitigroup believes that effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi™s risk management process has been 
designed to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes in 
conducting its activities. Specifically, the activities that Citi engages inŠand 
the risks those activities generateŠmust be consistent with Citi™s underlying 
commitment to the principles of ﬁresponsible financeﬂ and in line with Citi™s 
risk appetite. For Citi, responsible finance means conduct that is transparent, 
prudent and dependable, and that delivers better outcomes for Citi™s 
clients and society. Citi™s risk appetite framework includes principle-based 
qualitative boundaries to guide behavior and quantitative boundaries within 
which the firm will operate, including capital strength and earnings power.Citi selectively takes risks in support of its underlying customer-centric 
business strategy, while striving to ensure it operates within the principles 

of responsible finance. Reaching the goal of becoming an indisputably 
strong and stable institution goes beyond financial performance; ethics is an 
area where Citi has zero tolerance for breaches. Citi evaluates and rewards 
employees with specific consideration to their risk behaviors, including 
transparency, communication and escalation of concerns.
Citi™s risks are generally categorized into credit risk, market risk, 
operational risk and country and cross-border risk. Compliance risk can be 
found in all of these risk types.Citi™s risk programs are based on three lines of defense: (i) business 
management, (ii) independent control functions and (iii) Internal Audit.Business Management. Each of Citi™s businesses, including in-business risk personnel, own and manage the risks, including compliance risks, 
inherent in or arising from the business, and are responsible for having 
controls in place to mitigate key risks, performing manager assessments 
of internal controls, and promoting a culture of compliance and control. Independent Control Functions. Citi™s independent control functions, 
including Compliance, Finance, Legal and Risk, set standards according 
to which Citi and its businesses are expected to manage and oversee risks, 
including compliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements, 
policies and standards of ethical conduct. In addition, among other 
things, the independent control functions provide advice and training 
to Citi™s businesses and establish tools, methodologies, processes 
and oversight of controls used by the businesses to foster a culture of 
compliance and control and to satisfy those standards.Internal Audit. Citi™s Internal Audit function independently reviews 
activities of the first two lines of defense discussed above based on a 
risk-based audit plan and methodology approved by the Citigroup Board 
of Directors.Citi™s Risk Management OrganizationCiti™s Risk function is an independent control function within Franchise 
Risk and Strategy. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer, with oversight from the Risk 
Management Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors, as well as the 
full Board of Directors, is responsible for:establishing core standards for the management, measurement and reporting of risk arising from business risk taking activities and the 
macroeconomic and market environments; identifying, assessing, communicating and monitoring risks on a 
company-wide basis; engaging with senior management on a frequent basis on material 
matters with respect to risk-taking activities in the businesses and related 
risk management processes; and ensuring that the Risk function has adequate independence, authority, 
expertise, staffing, technology and resources.As set forth in the chart below, Citi™s independent risk management 
organization is structured to facilitate the management of risk across three dimensions: businesses, regions and critical products.Each of Citi™s major businesses has a Business Chief Risk Officer who is 
the focal point for risk decisions, such as setting risk limits or approving 
transactions in the business. The majority of staff in Citi™s risk management 

organization report to these Business Chief Risk Officers. There are also Chief 
Risk Officers for Citibank, N.A. and the Citi Holdings segment.Regional Chief Risk Officers, for each of Asia, EMEA and Mexico and Latin America, are accountable for the risks in or affecting their geographic 
areas, including the legal entities in their region, and are the primary risk 
contacts for the regional business heads and local regulators.Citi also has Product Chief Risk Officers for those risk areas of critical importance to Citi, currently fundamental credit, market and real estate risk, 
treasury, model validation and systemic risks. Product Chief Risk Officers 

are accountable for the risks within their specialties across businesses and 
regions. Product Chief Risk Officers also serve as a resource to Citi™s Chief 

Risk Officer, as well as to the Business and Regional Chief Risk Officers, to 

better enable the Business and Regional Chief Risk Officers to focus on day-
to-day management of risks and responsiveness to the business. The Head of 
the Risk Governance Group ensures the ongoing development, enhancement 
and implementation of a proactive, prudent, and effective risk management 
framework and organization.Each of the Business, Regional, Legal Entity and Product Chief Risk Officers reports to Citi™s Chief Risk Officer, who has a direct reporting line to 

the Risk Management Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors and 
a dual reporting line to both Citi™s Chief Executive Officer and the Head of 

Franchise Risk and Strategy.
69Chief Risk Officer
Market and Real Estate Risk, Treasury, Model Validation & 
Systemic RiskProduct 
Chief RiskOfficers
AsiaRegions / Legal Entities /SegmentEMEAMexico & Latin AmericaCiti Holdings SegmentCitibank, N.A. & JapanGlobal Commercial
Global ConsumerInstitutional Clients Group
Private BankBusiness Chief Risk Officers
Risk Governance Group & Chief Risk Officer Global Functions
Global Risk ManagementRisk Management Organization
Fundamental Credit Risk
Policies and ProcessesCiti has established robust processes to oversee the creation, ownership and 
ongoing management of Citi™s risk policy. Specifically, Citi™s Chief Risk 
Officer and the risk management executive committee (as described below), 
in some cases through established committees:establish core policies to articulate rules and behaviors for activities where capital is at risk; andestablish policy standards, procedures, guidelines, risk limits and limit 
adherence processes covering new and current risk exposures across Citi 
that are aligned with Citi™s risk appetite. Citi™s risk management processes include (i) key risk committees, (ii) risk 
aggregation and stress testing and (iii) risk capital.Key Risk Committees. Citi has established risk committees across the Company that broadly cover either overall governance, or new or complex product governance:Risk Management Executive Committee: Citi™s Chief Risk Officer chairs this committee. Members include all direct reports of Citi™s Chief 
Risk Officer, as well as certain reports of the Head of Franchise Risk and 
Strategy. The committee reviews key risk issues across businesses, products 
and regions.Citibank, N.A. Risk Committee: Citibank, N.A.™s Chief Risk Officer chairs 

this committee. Members include the Citibank, N.A Chief Executive Officer, 

Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Lending 

Officer and General Counsel. The committee reviews the risk appetite 

framework, thresholds and usage against the established thresholds for 

Citibank, N.A. The committee also reviews reports designed to monitor 

market, credit, operational and other risk types within the bank.Business and Regional Consumer Risk Committees: These committees exist in all regions, with broad engagement from the businesses, risk and 
other control functions. These committees include the Global Consumer Banking Risk Committee, which is chaired by the GCB Chief Executive Officer with the GCB Chief Risk Officer as the vice chair. The committee 
monitors key performance trends, significant regulatory and control 
events and management actions.70ICG Risk Management Committee: This committee reviews ICG™s risk profile, discusses pertinent risk issues in trading, global transaction 
services, structuring and lending businesses and reviews strategic risk 
decisions for consistency with Citi™s risk appetite. Members include Citi™s 
Chief Risk Officer and Head of Franchise Risk and Strategy, as well as the 
Global Head of Markets and the ICG Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Risk Officer.Business Risk, Compliance and Control Committees: These committees, 
which exist at both sector and function levels, serve as a forum for senior 
management to review key internal control, legal, compliance, regulatory 
and other risk and control issues.Business Practices Committee: This Citi-wide governance committee 
reviews practices involving potentially significant reputational or 
franchise issues. Each business also has its own business practices 
committee. These committees review whether Citi™s business practices 
have been designed and implemented in a way that meets the highest 
standards of professionalism, integrity and ethical behavior.Risk Policy Coordination Group: This group ensures a consistent 
approach to risk policy architecture and risk management requirements 
across Citi. Members include independent risk representatives from each 
business, region and Citibank, N.A.Citi has established the following committees to ensure that product risks are identified, evaluated and determined to be appropriate for Citi and its customers, including the existence of necessary approvals, controls 
and accountabilities:New Product Approval Committee: This committee is designed to ensure that significant risks, including reputation and franchise risks, 
in a new ICG product or service or complex transaction, are identified 
and evaluated, determined to be appropriate, properly recorded for risk 
aggregation purposes, effectively controlled, and have accountabilities 
in place. Functions that participate in this committee™s reviews 
include Legal, Bank Regulatory, Risk, Compliance, Accounting Policy, 
Product Control, and the Basel Interpretive Committee. Citibank, N.A. 
management participates in reviews of proposals contemplating the use 
of bank chain entities.Consumer Product Approval Committee 
(CPAC): This committee, which includes senior, multidisciplinary members, approves new products, 
services, channels or geographies for GCB. Each region has a regional 
CPAC, and a global CPAC addresses initiatives with high anti-money-
laundering (AML) risk or cross-border elements. Members include senior 
Risk, Legal, Compliance, Bank Regulatory, Operations and Technology 
and Operational Risk executives, supported by other specialists, including 
fair lending. A member of Citibank, N.A. senior management also 
participates in the CPAC process.Investment Products Risk Committee: This committee oversees two 
product approval committees that facilitate analysis and discussion of new 
retail investment products and services created and/or distributed by Citi.-  Manufacturing Product Approval Committee: This committee has 
responsibility for reviewing new or modified products or transactions 
created by Citi that are distributed to individual investors as well as 
third-party retail distributors.-  Distribution Product Approval Committee: This committee approves 
new investment products and services, including those created by third 
parties as part of Citi™s ﬁopen architectureﬂ distribution model, before 
they are offered to individual investors via Citi distribution businesses 
(e.g., private bank, consumer, etc.). This committee also sets 
requirements for the periodic review of existing products and services.Commercial Bank Product Approval Committee: This committee is designed to ensure that significant risks in a new or complex product, 
service, business line manufactured or provided by the Consumer and 
Commercial Bank (CCB) or by third parties for distribution to CCB clients, 
or certain modifications to existing products, services or business lines, 
undergo an appropriate and consistent level of review for CCB and its 
customers and are properly recorded and controlled.Citi also has other committees that play critical risk management roles, such as Citi™s Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) and the Operational Risk 
Council. For example, Citi™s ALCO sets the strategy of the liquidity portfolio 

and monitors its performance, including approving significant changes to 
portfolio asset allocations.Risk Aggregation and Stress TestingWhile Citi™s major risk areas are discussed individually on the following 
pages, these risks are also reviewed and managed in conjunction with one 
another and across Citi™s various businesses via its risk aggregation and stress 
testing processes. Moreover, Citi has established a formal policy governing its 
global systemic stress testing.As noted above, independent risk management monitors and controls major risk exposures and concentrations across the organization. This 
requires the aggregation of risks, within and across businesses, as well 
as subjecting those risks to various stress scenarios in order to assess the 
potential economic impact they may have on Citi.Stress tests are in place across Citi™s entire portfolio (i.e., trading, 
available-for-sale and accrual portfolios). These company-wide stress 

reports measure the potential impact to Citi and its component businesses of 
changes in various types of key risk factors (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, 
etc.). The reports also measure the potential impact of a number of historical 
and hypothetical forward-looking systemic stress scenarios, as developed 
internally by independent risk management. These company-wide stress tests 
are produced on a monthly basis, and results are reviewed by Citi™s senior 

management and Board of Directors.71Supplementing the stress testing described above, independent risk management, with assistance from its businesses and Finance function, provides periodic updates to Citi™s senior management and Board of Directors 

on significant potential areas of concern across Citi that can arise from risk 
concentrations, financial market participants and other systemic issues. 
These areas of focus are intended to be forward-looking assessments of the 
potential economic impacts to Citi that may arise from these exposures.The stress-testing and focus-position exercises described above supplement the standard limit-setting and risk-capital exercises described below, as 

these processes incorporate events in the marketplace and within Citi that 
impact the firm™s outlook on the form, magnitude, correlation and timing 

of identified risks that may arise. In addition to enhancing awareness 
and understanding of potential exposures, the results of these processes 
then serve as the starting point for developing risk management and 
mitigation strategies.In addition to Citi™s ongoing, internal stress testing described above, Citi 
is also required to perform stress testing on a periodic basis for a number of 
regulatory exercises, including the Federal Reserve Board™s Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and the OCC™s Dodd-Frank Act Stress 

Testing (DFAST). These regulatory exercises typically prescribe certain 

defined scenarios under which stress testing should be conducted, and 
they also provide defined forms for the output of the results. For additional 
information, see ﬁRisk Factors-Business and Operational Risksﬂ above.Risk CapitalCiti calculates and allocates risk capital across the Company in order to 
consistently measure risk taking across business activities and to assess risk-
reward relationships. Risk capital is defined as the amount of capital required 

to absorb potential unexpected economic losses resulting from extremely 
severe events over a one-year time period.ﬁEconomic lossesﬂ include losses that are reflected on Citi™s Consolidated Statements of Income and fair value adjustments to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, as well as any further declines in value not captured 
on the Consolidated Statements of Income. ﬁUnexpected lossesﬂ are the difference between potential extremely severe 
losses and Citi™s expected (average) loss over a one-year time period. ﬁExtremely severeﬂ is defined as potential loss at a 99.97% confidence 
level, based on the distribution of observed events and scenario analysis.The drivers of economic losses are risks which, for Citi, are broadly categorized as credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Citi™s risk capital 
framework is reviewed and enhanced on a regular basis in light of market 
developments and evolving practices.Citi™s Compliance OrganizationCompliance is an independent control function within Franchise Risk and 
Strategy that is designed to protect Citi not only by managing adherence 
to applicable laws, regulations and other standards of conduct, but also 
by promoting business behavior and activity that is consistent with global 
standards for responsible finance.While principal responsibility for compliance rests with business managers and their teams, all employees of Citi are responsible for protecting 
the franchise by (i) engaging in responsible finance; (ii) understanding 
and adhering to the compliance requirements that apply to their day-
to-day activities, including Citi™s Code of Conduct and other Citi policies, 

standards and procedures; and (iii) seeking advice from the Compliance 
function with questions regarding compliance requirements and promptly 
reporting violations of laws, rules, regulations, Citi policies or relevant 
ethical standards. Citi™s compliance risk management starts with Citi™s 

Board of Directors and senior management, who set the tone from the top by 
promoting a strong culture of ethics, compliance and control.Citi™s compliance program is based on the three lines of defense, as 
described above.Compliance Risk Appetite FrameworkGuided by the principle of responsible finance, Citi seeks to eliminate, 
minimize, or mitigate compliance risk. Compliance risk is the risk arising 
from violations of, or non-conformance with, local, national, or cross-border 
laws, rules, or regulations, Citi™s own internal policies and procedures, or 
relevant ethical standards.Citi manages its compliance risk appetite through a three-pillar approach:Setting risk appetite: Citi establishes its compliance risk appetite by setting 
limits on the types of business in which Citi will engage, the products 
and services Citi will offer, the types of customers which Citi will service, 
the counterparties with which Citi will deal, and the locations where Citi 
will do business. These limits are guided by adherence to the highest 
ethical standards.Adhering to risk appetite: Citi manages adherence to its compliance 
risk appetite through the execution of its compliance program, which 
includes customer onboarding processes, product development processes, 
transaction monitoring processes, conduct risk program, ethics program, 
and new products, services, and complex transactions approval processes.Evaluating the effectiveness of risk appetite controls: The business and compliance evaluate the effectiveness of controls governing compliance 
risk appetite through the Manager™s Control Assessment (MCA) processes; 
compliance testing; compliance monitoring processes; compliance 
risk assessments; compliance metrics related to key operating risks, key 
risk indicators and control effectiveness indicators; and the Internal 
Audit function.72The elements supporting these three pillars are discussed in greater detail below.
Citi™s Compliance FunctionCompliance aims to execute Citi™s compliance risk appetite framework-
and thus eliminate, minimize, or manage compliance risk-through Citi™s 
compliance program. To achieve this mission, the Compliance function 
seeks to:Understand the regulatory environment, requirements and expectations to which Citi™s activities are subject. Compliance coordinates with Legal and other independent control functions, 
as appropriate, to identify, communicate and document key 
regulatory requirements.Assess the compliance risks of business activities and the state of 
mitigating controls, including the risks and controls in legal entities 
in which activity is conducted. To facilitate the identification and 
assessment of compliance risk, Compliance works with the businesses and 
other independent control functions to review significant compliance and 
regulatory issues and the results of testing, monitoring, and internal and 
external exams and audits.In conjunction with Citi™s Board of Directors and senior 
management, define Citi™s appetite for prudent compliance and 
regulatory risk consistent with its culture for compliance, control and 
responsible finance. As noted above, Citi has developed a compliance 
risk appetite framework designed to eliminate, minimize or mitigate 
compliance risk.Develop controls and execute programs reasonably designed to limit 
conduct to that consistent with Citi™s compliance and regulatory risk 
appetite and promptly detect and mitigate behavior that violates those 
limits. Compliance has business-specific compliance functions (e.g., 
Global Consumer Banking and Institutional Clients Group), regional programs, and thematic groups and programs (e.g., the AML Program 
and the Conduct, Governance, and Emerging Risk Management group) 
that aim to mitigate Citi™s exposure to conduct that is inconsistent with its 
compliance risk appetite.Detect, report on, escalate and remediate key compliance and 
franchise risks and control issues; test controls for design and 
operating effectiveness, promptly address issues, and track 
remediation efforts. Compliance designs and implements policies, 
standards, procedures, guidelines, surveillance reports and other solutions 
for use by the business and compliance to promptly detect, address and 
remediate issues, test controls for design and operating effectiveness, and 
track remediation efforts.Engage with the Board, business management, operating committees 
and Citi™s regulators to foster effective global governance. Compliance provides regular reports on emerging risks and other issues and their 
implications for Citi, as well as compliance program performance, to the 
Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. Boards of Directors, including the Audit and 
Ethics and Culture Committees, as well as other committees of the Boards. Compliance also engages with business management on an ongoing 
basis through various mechanisms, including governance committees, 
and it supports and advises the businesses and other global functions in 
managing regulatory relationships.Advise and train Citi personnel across businesses, functions, 
regions and legal entities in how to comply with laws, regulations 
and other standards of conduct. Compliance helps promote a 
strong culture of compliance and control by increasing awareness and 
capability across Citi on key compliance issues through training and 
communication programs. A fundamental element of Citi™s culture is 
the requirement that Citi conducts itself in accordance with the highest 
standards of ethical behavior. Compliance plays a key role in developing 
company-wide initiatives designed to further embed ethics in Citi™s 
culture. These initiatives include training for more than 40,000 senior 
employees that fosters ethical decision-making and underscores the importance of escalating issues. The initiatives also include a video series featuring senior leaders discussing difficult ethical decisions, regular 
communications on ethics and culture, and the development of enhanced 
tools to support ethical decision-making. Compliance partners with the 
businesses and other functions to develop and implement these and other 
ethics and culture initiatives.Enhance the Compliance Program. Compliance fulfills its obligation 
to enhance the compliance program in part by using its annual 
compliance risk assessment results to shape annual and multi-year 
program enhancements.Organization Structure and Staff Independence
Citi™s Chief Compliance Officer manages the Compliance function. The Chief 
Compliance Officer or a designee is responsible for reporting significant 
compliance matters to Citi™s senior management, the Boards of Directors, 
their designated committees, and other relevant forums.Citi™s Chief Compliance Officer reports to the Head of Franchise Risk and 
Strategy, who reports directly to Citi™s Chief Executive Officer. All compliance 

officers report directly to Citi™s Chief Compliance Officer through one of 

the above mentioned direct reports. This structure provides the required 
independence of Compliance from the revenue-producing lines of business.73CREDIT RISKCredit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. 
Credit risk arises in many of Citigroup™s business activities, including:wholesale and retail lending; capital markets derivative transactions; structured finance; and repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions.Credit risk also arises from settlement and clearing activities, when Citi transfers an asset in advance of receiving its counter-value or advances funds 
to settle a transaction on behalf of a client. Concentration risk, within credit 
risk, is the risk associated with having credit exposure concentrated within a 
specific client, industry, region or other category.
Credit Risk ManagementCredit risk is one of the most significant risks Citi faces as an institution. As 
a result, Citi has a well established framework in place for managing credit 
risk across all businesses. This includes a defined risk appetite, credit limits 
and credit policies, both at the business level as well as at the company-wide 
level. Citi™s credit risk management also includes processes and policies with 
respect to problem recognition, including ﬁwatch lists,ﬂ portfolio review, 
updated risk ratings and classification triggers.With respect to Citi™s settlement and clearing activities, intra-day client 
usage of lines is closely monitored against limits, as well as against ﬁnormalﬂ 
usage patterns. To the extent a problem develops, Citi typically moves 

the client to a secured (collateralized) operating model. Generally, Citi™s 

intra-day settlement and clearing lines are uncommitted and cancellable at 
any time.To manage concentration of risk within credit risk, Citi has in place a 
concentration management framework consisting of industry limits, obligor 
limits and single-name triggers. In addition, as noted under ﬁManaging 
Global RiskŠRisk Aggregation and Stress Testingﬂ above, independent 

risk management reviews concentration of risk across Citi™s regions and 

businesses to assist in managing this type of risk.Credit Risk Measurement and Stress TestingCredit exposures are generally reported in notional terms for accrual loans, 
reflecting the value at which the loans as well as loan and other off-balance 
sheet commitments are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Credit 
exposure arising from capital markets activities is generally expressed as the 
current mark-to-market, net of margin, reflecting the net value owed to Citi 
by a given counterparty.The credit risk associated with these credit exposures is a function of the creditworthiness of the obligor, as well as the terms and conditions 

of the specific obligation. Citi assesses the credit risk associated with its 
credit exposures on a regular basis through its loan loss reserve process 
(see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ and Notes 1 
and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as through regular 
stress testing at the company, business, geography and product levels. These 

stress-testing processes typically estimate potential incremental credit costs 
that would occur as a result of either downgrades in the credit quality or 
defaults of the obligors or counterparties.74Loans OutstandingDecember 31,In millions of dollars2014•‡˚••‡˚˚•‡˚‡Consumer loans˝˝

˝˝˝
˝˜˚˛$96,533ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˝˝14,450112,982˝˝5,895˝Š‚‚˚•$229,860ƒƒƒƒ˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝
˝˜˚˛$54,462ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˝˝31,12832,032˝˝22,561˝609„‰−„⁄˚„˚˚‰‰›$140,792ƒƒƒƒTotal Consumer loans
$370,652ƒƒƒƒ˝(682)˜›„•˛˜‹˚⁄˛˜‹‡›˛‰−Consumer loans, net of unearned income
$369,970ƒƒƒƒCorporate loans˝˝
˝˝$35,055ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˝36,272
˝˝˝
˝˜˚˛32,537˝˝˝˝29,207˝1,758$134,829ƒƒƒƒ˝
˝˝˝˝˝$79,239ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˝33,269
˝˝˝
˝˜˚˛6,031˝˝˝˝19,259˝356›•„‰‡››‰⁄˝˝
˝2,236$140,390ƒƒƒƒTotal Corporate loans
$275,219ƒƒƒƒ˝(554)˜›‰•˛˜„−„˛˜„˚‡˛˜−„•˛Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$274,665ƒƒƒƒTotal loansŠnet of unearned income
$644,635ƒƒƒƒ˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝
˝(15,994)˛˛˛˛Total
 loansŠnet of unearned income and allowance for credit losses$628,641ƒƒƒƒAllowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loansŠnet of  unearned income (2)2.50%ﬂﬂﬂﬂAllowance for Consumer loan losses as a percentage of total Consumer  loansŠnet of unearned income (2)3.68%ﬂﬂﬂﬂAllowance for Corporate loan losses as a percentage of total Corporate  loansŠnet of unearned income (2)0.89%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ˜˚˛˝
˝˝’
˝‘’
˝˝
˜•˛˝
˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˘
˝˝75Details of Credit Loss ExperienceIn millions of dollars2014•‡˚••‡˚˚•‡˚‡Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period$19,648ƒƒƒƒProvision for loan losses
$6,693ƒƒƒƒ
135˚⁄„˛„›$6,828ƒƒƒƒGross credit lossesConsumer˝˝
˝˜˚˛˜•˛$6,780ƒƒƒƒ˝
˝˝˝3,901Corporate
˝˝˝˝˝˝
66˚•›˚›‹˝
˝˝˝283˚‹‹‰‹−›„˚˝˝˝˝˝
2••˚›•„›˝
˝˝˝13„‰⁄˚˚˚
˝˝˝
˝˝
8‰•›−˚⁄•˝
˝˝˝55•−•˚˚„˚•⁄‰$11,108ƒƒƒƒCredit recoveries
 (3)Consumer˝˝
$1,122ƒƒƒƒ˝
˝˝˝874Corporate˝Ł˝˝˝˝˝
64‰•˚„››−˚˝
˝˝˝63›•−›˚˚›˝˝˝˝˝
1˚‚‚‚˝
˝˝˝11•‡⁄−
˝˝˝
˝˝
Š˚„•„˝
˝˝˝Š•˚−••‰$2,135ƒƒƒƒNet credit losses˝˝
˝˜˚˛˜•˛$5,669ƒƒƒƒ˝
˝˝˝3,304Total
$8,973ƒƒƒƒ˝Š˝˝˜‹˛˜›˛˜‰˛˜„˛˜⁄˛˜−˛$(1,509)ƒ˛ƒ˜⁄⁄„˛ƒ˛ƒAllowance for loan losses at end of period$15,994ƒƒƒƒ˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˘˝ﬂ˝˝˝˝˜˚‡˛2.50%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˜˚˚˛$1,063ƒƒƒƒTotal allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments
$17,057ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˝˝˜˚˛˜•˛$8,685ƒƒƒƒ˝˘˝
˝˝˘
˝˝2.28%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ˝
˝˝$288ƒ•‡˚ƒƒƒ˝˘˝
˝˝˘
˝
˝0.10%ﬂﬂﬂﬂAllowance for loan losses at end of period (12)$11,465ƒƒƒƒ˝4,529ı
˝
$15,994ƒƒƒƒAllowance by type
$13,605ƒƒƒƒ
2,389ı
˝
$15,994ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝†˘
76˜˚˛˝•‡˚•
˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝
˝„˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˘
˝ƒ‰‡‡˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝•‡˚•˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝
˝˝˝
˝•‡˚•˝˝˝˘˝˝˝
˝˝˘’
˝ƒ‹‡˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˜•˛˝•‡˚•
˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˘
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝•‡˚•˝
˝˝˝

˝
˝˝˝‘’
˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝’
˝˝˝
˝˝˜‹˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝
˝˝˝˝˜›˛˝•‡˚‹
˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˜Ž˙—˛˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ‹˚˚˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ•‡‹˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝Ž˙—˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ˚„„˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝Ž˙—˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ•−˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝Ž˙—˝˝˘˝˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ˚‡⁄˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝Ž˙—˝˝˝˝˝
˝’
˝•‡˚‹˝˝˘˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˝
˜‰˛˝
˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ•››˝˝
˝˝˘˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˘˝˝
˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝˘˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝Other assets ˝˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ••‡˝˝
˝˝
˝˝
˜„˛˝•‡˚•
˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ⁄„›˝˝
˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝
˜⁄˛˝•‡˚˚
˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˘’
˝ƒ•‹‡˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˘’
˝ƒ„•˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˘’
˝ƒ•−‡˝˝
˝˝˝
˜−˛˝•‡˚‡
˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝—˙
˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘’
˝ƒ•−‡˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˝
˝
˝˝ˆˇ
˝˜˚‡˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝•‡˚˚˝˝˝˝•‡˚‡˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˘
˝˝˜˚˚˛˝
˝˝˝˝
˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝Other liabilities
˝˝˝
˝˝
˜˚•˛˝
˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˝†ˇˆ‘˘
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝†ˇˆ‘˘
˝˝
˝˝˝’
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˚˝˝˝
˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝
˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˘
˝˝˘
˝†ˇˆ‘˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
Allowance for Loan LossesThe following tables detail information on Citi™s allowance for loan losses, loans and coverage ratios as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:December 31, 2014
In billions of dollarsAllowance for loan lossesLoans, net of unearned income
Allowance as a percentage of loans (1)North America ˝˜•˛$4.9$114.04.3%North America 
˝3.795.93.9North America 1.221.65.6
˝1.931.56.0
˝˝˜›˛1.9106.91.8Total Consumer
$13.6$369.93.7%Total Corporate
2.4274.70.9Total Citigroup
$16.0$644.62.5%˜˚˛˝
˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˘
˝˝˜•˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘’
˝˚›˝˝˝˝˝˝˝

˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝
˝˝North America˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝North America˝
˝˝˝˝North America˝
˜‹˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‹›‡Š•‡˝˝˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝‹›‡Š•‡˝˝˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˙ˆˇ˝˝
˝˝˝˚‰˝˝˝
˝˝
˜›˛˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝In billions of dollars˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝˜˚˛North America ˝˜•˛ƒƒﬂNorth America 
˝North America 
˝
˝˝˜›˛Total Consumer
ƒƒﬂTotal Corporate
Total Citigroup
ƒƒﬂ˜˚˛˝
˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˘
˝˝˜•˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘’
˝˚⁄˝˝˝˝˝˝˝

˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝
˝˝North America 
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘’
˝•‰˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝North America˝
˝˝˝˝North America˝
˜‹˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝‹›‡Š•‡˝˝˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˘’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝‹›‡Š•‡˝˝˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˙ˆˇ˝˝
˝˝˝˚‰˝˝˝
˝˝
˜›˛˝
˝
˝˝˝˝77Non-Accrual Loans and Assets, and Renegotiated LoansThe following pages include information on Citi™s ﬁNon-Accrual Loans and Assetsﬂ and ﬁRenegotiated Loans.ﬂ There is a certain amount of 
overlap among these categories. The following summary provides a general 
description of each category:Non-Accrual Loans and Assets:
is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal is doubtful.Consumer non-accrual status is generally based on aging, i.e., the 
borrower has fallen behind in payments.Mortgage loans in regulated bank entities discharged through Chapter 7 
bankruptcy, other than Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured 
loans, are classified as non-accrual. Non-bank mortgage loans discharged 
through Chapter 7 bankruptcy are classified as non-accrual at 90 days or 
more past due. In addition, home equity loans in regulated bank entities 
are classified as non-accrual if the related residential first mortgage loan 
is 90 days or more past due.North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services are not included 
because under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest 
until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days 
contractual delinquency.Renegotiated Loans:
modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.Non-Accrual Loans and AssetsThe table below summarizes Citigroup™s non-accrual loans as of the periods 
indicated. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. In 
situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of the principal 
owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are reflected as a 
reduction of principal and not as interest income. For all other non-accrual 
loans, cash interest receipts are generally recorded as revenue.Non-Accrual LoansDecember 31,In millions of dollars2014•‡˚••‡˚˚•‡˚‡Citicorp$3,062ƒƒƒƒCiti Holdings4,045Total non-accrual loans
$7,107ƒƒƒƒCorporate non-accrual loans (1)North America$321ƒƒƒƒEMEA267„‰‰Latin America
416˚•„˚•⁄„‡˚Asia179•„−‹„‡Total Corporate non-accrual loans
$1,183ƒƒƒƒ$1,126ƒƒƒƒ˝57‹•‹Total Corporate non-accrual loans
$1,183ƒƒƒƒConsumer non-accrual loans (1)North America$4,412ƒƒƒƒEMEA32‰›•Latin America
1,188Asia292‹›‡›„‰Total Consumer non-accrual loans
$5,924ƒƒƒƒ$1,936ƒƒƒƒ˝3,988Total Consumer non-accrual loans
$5,924ƒƒƒƒ˜˚˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˝’
˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝ƒ‹•˚˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝ƒ›˚˚˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝ƒ‹‰−˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝78The table below summarizes Citigroup™s other real estate owned (OREO) assets as of the periods indicated. This represents the carrying value of all real estate property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral.December 31,In millions of dollars2014•‡˚••‡˚˚•‡˚‡OREO (1)Citicorp$96ƒ„−ƒ‹−ƒ⁄‰ƒ⁄‹‡Citi Holdings164‹⁄‡Total OREO
$260ƒ‹˚„ƒ‹‹‡ƒ›‰‰ƒNorth America$195ƒƒ•−−ƒ‹‹˚ƒEMEA8›−−−˚‰˚Latin America
47‹„‹‡›˚‹„Asia10‰•˚››Total OREO
$260ƒ‹˚„ƒ‹‹‡ƒ›‰‰ƒOther repossessed assets$Šƒ‚ƒ˚ƒ˚ƒ•⁄Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citigroup

˝˝$1,183ƒƒƒƒ˝˝5,924˝˝$7,107ƒƒƒƒŒšžŒ$260ƒ‹˚„ƒ‹‹‡ƒ›‰‰ƒ˝˝Š‚˚˚•⁄˝˝$7,367ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝1.10%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝0.40˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝˜•˛225•˚⁄••˚•„••‡−Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citicorp
2014•‡˚••‡˚˚•‡˚‡˝˝$3,062ƒƒƒƒŒšžŒ96„−‹−⁄‰⁄‹‡˝˝N/A˝˝$3,158ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝0.18%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝˜•˛374‹˚‰‹›‰Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citi Holdings

˝˝$4,045ƒƒƒƒŒšžŒ164‹⁄‡˝˝N/A˝˝$4,209ƒƒƒƒ˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝4.29%ﬂﬂﬂﬂ˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˘˝
˝˝˝˜•˛112˚•‹˚‹‰˚−‡˚•‰˜˚˛˝•‡˚‹
˝
˝˘˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝
˝˙ˆˇ˝˝
˝˝˝˚˝˝˝
˝˝
˜•˛˝
˝˝ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˝ˆˇ
˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘
˝˘
˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝79Renegotiated LoansThe following table presents Citi™s loans modified in TDRs.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2014˝˝Corporate renegotiated loans (1)˝˝
˝˝˝˜•˛$12ƒ
˝˝˝
˝106˝˝˝Š˚‹316$434ƒ››„˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˜•˛$105ƒ˚‰˚
˝˝˝
˝1˚⁄39›⁄$145ƒTotal Corporate renegotiated loans
$579ƒ„−‹Consumer renegotiated loans (4)(5)(6)(7)˝˝

˝˝˝
˝˜⁄˛$15,514ƒ1,751˝˝580‰•‰$17,845ƒ˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝
$695ƒ‰‹˚656˝˝586$1,937ƒTotal Consumer renegotiated loans
$19,782ƒ˜˚˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˘
˝˘
˝˝˝•‡˚‹˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˜•˛˝
˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ƒ˚›˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ˇ˘
˝˝
˝ˆˇ˝˝˝’
˝˝‘’
˝˝
˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝’
˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˜˘˝˝˝˝˘˝ı“š˝ˆˇ
˝˝
˝˝˝
˝
˝˝˝˘
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ƒ••˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝ˇ˘
˝˝
˝ˆˇ˝˝˝’
˝˝‘’
˝˝
˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˘˝˝˜˘˝˝˝˝˘˝ı“š˝ˆˇ
˝˝˜‹˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˘
˝˘
˝˝˝•‡˚‹˝˝˝’
˝˝˝˝˝˝˜›˛˝
˝ƒ˚•‹˝˝˝ƒ•−˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝˘
˝˝˝•‡˚‹˝˝˝’
˜‰˛˝
˝ƒ˚⁄‹˝˝˝ƒ•−›˝˝˝˝˝˝˘
˝˝˝•‡˚‹˝˝˝’
˜„˛˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˜⁄˛˝
˝˝•‡˚‹˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˝˝ˆˇ
Forgone Interest Revenue on Loans (1)In millions of dollarsIn U.S. officesIn non- U.S. offices2014 total˝˝
˝˝
˝˝˝˘
˝
˝˝ˇ˘
˝˜•˛$1,708$715$2,423˝˝˝˝˝˜•˛9962611,257Forgone interest revenue$712$454$1,166˜˚˛˝
˝˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˜•˛˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝’
˝
˝˝˝˝ˇ˘
˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˝’
˝˝˝˝80North America Consumer Mortgage LendingOverviewCiti™s North America consumer mortgage portfolio consists of both 
residential first mortgages and home equity loans. At December 31, 2014, 
Citi™s North America consumer mortgage portfolio was $95.9 billion 
(compared to $107.5 billion at December 31, 2013), of which the residential 
first mortgage portfolio was $67.8 billion (compared to $75.9 billion at 
December 31, 2013), and the home equity loan portfolio was $28.1 billion 
(compared to $31.6 billion at December 31, 2013). At December 31, 
2014, $34.4 billion of first mortgages was recorded in Citi Holdings, with 
the remaining $33.4 billion recorded in Citicorp. At December 31, 2014, 
$24.8 billion of home equity loans was recorded in Citi Holdings, with the 
remaining $3.3 billion recorded in Citicorp.Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio included $5.2 billion of loans 
with FHA insurance or Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) guarantees 

at December 31, 2014, compared to $7.7 billion at December 31, 2013. 
The decline during the year was primarily attributed to approximately 
$2.3 billion of mortgage loans with FHA insurance sold and transferred to 
held-for-sale, including $0.9 billion during the fourth quarter of 2014. Citi™s 

FHA/VA portfolio consists of loans to low-to-moderate-income borrowers 

with lower FICO (Fair Isaac Corporation) scores and generally higher 
loan-to-value ratios (LTVs). Credit losses on FHA loans are borne by the 

sponsoring governmental agency, provided that the insurance terms have not 

been rescinded as a result of an origination defect. With respect to VA loans, 

the VA establishes a loan-level loss cap, beyond which Citi is liable for loss. 

While FHA and VA loans have high delinquency rates, given the insurance 

and guarantees, respectively, Citi has experienced negligible credit losses on 

these loans.In addition, Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio included $0.8
 billion of loans with origination LTVs above 80% that have insurance through 

mortgage insurance companies at December 31, 2014, compared to 
$1.1 billion at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2014, the residential 
first mortgage portfolio also had $0.6 billion of loans subject to long-term 
standby commitments (LTSCs) with U.S. government-sponsored entities 

(GSEs) for which Citi has limited exposure to credit losses, compared to 
$0.8 billion at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2014, Citi™s home equity 

loan portfolio also included $0.2 billion of loans subject to LTSCs with GSEs, 

compared to $0.3 billion at December 31, 2013, for which Citi also has 
limited exposure to credit losses. These guarantees and commitments may 
be rescinded in the event of loan origination defects. Citi™s allowance for loan 

loss calculations takes into consideration the impact of the guarantees and 
commitments described above.As of December 31, 2014, Citi™s 
North America residential first mortgage portfolio contained approximately $3.8 billion of adjustable rate mortgages 
that are currently required to make a payment consisting of only accrued 
interest for the payment period, or an interest-only payment, compared to 
$5.0 billion at December 31, 2013. This decline resulted primarily from 
repayments, conversions to amortizing loans and loans sold/transferred 
to held-for-sale. Residential first mortgages with this payment feature are 
primarily to high-credit-quality borrowers who have on average significantly 
higher origination and refreshed FICO scores than other loans in the 
residential first mortgage portfolio, and have exhibited significantly lower 
30+ delinquency rates as compared with residential first mortgages without 
this payment feature. As such, Citi does not believe the residential mortgage 
loans with this payment feature represent substantially higher risk in 
the portfolio.Citi does not offer option-adjustable rate mortgages/negative-amortizing mortgage products to its customers. As a result, option-adjustable rate 
mortgages/negative-amortizing mortgages represent an insignificant portion 
of total balances, since they were acquired only incidentally as part of prior 
portfolio and business purchases.81North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠNet Credit Losses and DelinquenciesŠResidential 
First MortgagesThe following charts detail the quarterly credit trends for Citigroup™s 
residential first mortgage portfolio in North America.4Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™133693135932328332983427833North America Residential First Mortgage Š EOP LoansIn billions of dollars$76$75$73$68$724Q™143Q™142Q™14(3)1Q™144Q™13(1)(2)95117595953599075483226915North America Residential First Mortgage Š Net Credit LossesIn millions of dollars$218$193$156$122$139Total NCL
˜˚˜˛˜˚˝˛˝˚˙˛˝˚˙˛˝˚ˆ˛Citi Holdings CMI˜˚˝˛˜˚˜˛˝˚ˆ˛˝˚ˆ˛˝˚ˇ˛Citi Holdings CFNA˘˚˝˛ˇ˚ˇ˛ˇ˚˝˛Citi Holdings Total
˜˚˙˛˜˚ˇ˛˜˚ˇ˛Citicorp˝˚˜˛˝˚˝˛˝˚˜˛˝˚˝˘˛S&P/Case Shiller Home Price Index
(5)˙˚˝˛ˇ˚˙˛ˇ˚˘˛€












˚




”
”
82North America Residential First Mortgage Delinquencies
ŠCiti HoldingsIn billions of dollarsDays Past Due:
0248630+ DPD180+90-17930-894Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™133Q™132Q™131Q™134Q™122.912.412.212.021.881.581.641.431.121.170.850.610.630.640.590.550.410.341.951.611.501.301.131.181.200.840.946.034.874.323.943.663.343.392.772.31
€
Credit performance (net credit losses and delinquencies) of the residential first mortgage portfolio continued to improve during 2014, although the 
home price index (HPI), which varies from market to market (as indicated 
in the table below), moderated throughout 2014 compared to the prior 
year. The decline in net credit losses during 2014 was driven by continued 

improvement in credit, HPI, the economic environment and continued 
management actions, primarily asset sales and loans transferred to held-
for-sale and, to a lesser extent, loan modifications. CitiFinancial™s net credit 

losses improved more modestly in 2014 compared to CitiMortgage, including 
an increase in net credit losses in the fourth quarter of 2014 due to portfolio 
seasoning and loss mitigation activities.Residential first mortgages originated by CitiFinancial have a higher net credit loss rate (4.6%, compared to 0.4% for CitiMortgage as of the 
fourth quarter of 2014), as CitiFinancial borrowers tend to have higher LTVs 

and lower FICOs than CitiMortgage borrowers. CitiFinancial™s residential 

first mortgages also have a significantly different geographic distribution, 
with different mortgage market conditions that tend to lag the overall 
improvements in HPI.During 2014, continued management actions, primarily assets sales and loans transferred to held-for-sale and, to a lesser extent, loan modifications, 

were the primary drivers of the overall improvement in delinquencies in Citi 
Holdings™ residential first mortgage portfolio. Citi sold or transferred to held-
for-sale approximately $1.2 billion of delinquent residential first mortgages 

in 2014 (compared to $2.1 billion in 2013), including $0.6 billion during 
the fourth quarter of 2014. Credit performance from quarter to quarter could 
continue to be impacted by the volume of delinquent loan sales (or lack of 
significant sales) and HPI, as well as increases in interest rates.83North America Residential First MortgagesŠState Delinquency TrendsThe following tables set forth, for total Citigroup, the six states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s residential first mortgages as of 
December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014

State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% LTV >
 100% (3)Refreshed FICO˛˛œ
˜˝˝˛$18.931%0.6%2%745—˛˜˚˝˛ˇ˛12.2201.92740˜˜˚ˆ˜˙‘œ2.853.014700˘ˇ˚ˇ2.542.910667˘2.542.59713ˇ1.321.918715˜˚˘ˆ˜˝19.9333.45679ˇ˚˜˙Total
$60.1100%2.1%4%715—˜˝˝˛˛˙˛ˆ˝˘€





œ
”“‰

The significant improvement in Citigroup™s residential first mortgages 
LTV percentages at year-end 2014 compared to the prior year end was driven 

by HPI improvements across substantially all metropolitan statistical areas, 
thereby increasing values used in the determination of LTV. Additionally, 

delinquent and re-performing asset sales of high LTV loans and, to a lesser 

extent, modification programs involving principal forgiveness during 2014 
further reduced the amount of loans with greater than 100% LTV. While 90+ 

days past due delinquency rates have improved for the states and regions 
above, the continued longer foreclosure timelines (see discussion under 
ﬁForeclosuresﬂ below) could result in less improvement in these rates in the 
future, especially in judicial states (i.e., states that require foreclosures to be 
processed via court approval).ForeclosuresA substantial majority of Citi™s foreclosure inventory consists of residential 
first mortgages. At December 31, 2014, Citi™s foreclosure inventory included 
approximately $0.6 billion, or 0.9%, of residential first mortgages, compared 
to $0.8 billion, or 1.2%, at December 31, 2013 (based on the dollar amount 
of ending net receivables of loans in foreclosure inventory, excluding loans 
that are guaranteed by U.S. government agencies and loans subject to 
LTSCs). This decline in 2014 was largely attributed to CitiMortgage loans 
sold or transferred to held-for-sale. Citi™s foreclosure inventory continues to be impacted by the ongoing 
extensive state and regulatory requirements related to the foreclosure process, 
which continue to result in longer foreclosure timelines. Citi™s average 

timeframes to move a loan out of foreclosure are two to three times longer 
than historical norms, and continue to be even more pronounced in judicial 
states, where Citi has a higher concentration of residential first mortgages 
in foreclosure. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 21% of Citi™s total 

foreclosure inventory was active foreclosure units in process for over two 
years, compared to 29% as of December 31, 2013, with the decline primarily 
attributed to CitiMortgage loans sold or transferred to held-for-sale.
84North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠNet Credit Losses and DelinquenciesŠHome 
Equity Loans
Citi™s home equity loan portfolio consists of both fixed-rate home equity loans 

and loans extended under home equity lines of credit. Fixed-rate home equity 

loans are fully amortizing. Home equity lines of credit allow for amounts 

to be drawn for a period of time with the payment of interest only and then, 

at the end of the draw period, the then-outstanding amount is converted to 

an amortizing loan (the interest-only payment feature during the revolving 

period is standard for this product across the industry). After conversion, the 

home equity loans typically have a 20-year amortization period.Revolving HELOCs
At December 31, 2014, Citi™s home equity loan portfolio of $28.1 billion 
included approximately $16.7 billion of home equity lines of credit 
(Revolving HELOCs) that are still within their revolving period and have 
not commenced amortization, or ﬁreset,ﬂ compared to $18.9 billion at 
December 31, 2013. The following chart indicates the FICO and combined 
loan-to-value (CLTV) characteristics of Citi™s Revolving HELOCs portfolio and 

the year in which they reset:FICO 660+,CLTV>100
FICO<660,CLTV>100
FICO 660+,CLTV>=80<=100
FICO<660,CLTV>=80<=100
FICO 660+,CLTV<80
FICO<660,CLTV<80
%ENR$6.0$5.0
$4.0
$3.0
$2.0
$1.0
$0.02019+201820172016201520142013<2013$0.42.3%$0.42.2%$1.05.3%$3.619.4%$4.825.6%$4.624.9%$2.513.3%$1.37.0%North America Home Equity Lines of Credit Amortization
ŠCitigroup
Total ENR by Reset Year
In billions of dollars as of December 31, 2014
€
Approximately 10% of Citi™s total Revolving HELOCs portfolio had 
commenced amortization as of December 31, 2014. Of the remaining Revolving HELOCs portfolio, approximately 78% will commence 
amortization during 2015Œ2017. Before commencing amortization, 
Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their 
loans. Upon amortization, these borrowers will be required to pay both 
interest, usually at a variable rate, and principal that amortizes typically 
over 20 years, rather than the typical 30-year amortization. As a result, Citi™s 

customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience ﬁpayment 
shockﬂ due to the higher required payments on the loans. While it is not certain what, if any, impact this payment shock could have 
on Citi™s delinquency rates and net credit losses, Citi currently estimates that 

the monthly loan payment for its Revolving HELOCs that reset during 2015Œ
2017 could increase on average by approximately $360, or 170%. Increases in 
interest rates could further increase these payments given the variable nature 
of the interest rates on these loans post-reset. Of the Revolving HELOCs that 
will commence amortization during 2015Œ2017, approximately $1.6 billion, 
or 12%, of the loans have a CLTV greater than 100% as of December
 31, 2014. 
Borrowers™ high loan-to-value positions, as well as the cost and availability 
of refinancing options, could limit borrowers™ ability to refinance their 
Revolving HELOCs as these loans begin to reset.85Based on the limited number of Revolving HELOCs that have begun amortization as of December 31, 2014, approximately 6.4% of the amortizing home equity loans were 30+ days past due, compared to 2.7% of the total 
outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). 
This compared to 6.0% and 2.8%, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. 

However, these resets have generally occurred during a period of historically 

low interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall ﬁpayment 
shockﬂ to the borrower. 
Citi continues to monitor this reset risk closely and will continue to consider 
any potential impact in determining its allowance for loan loss reserves. In 

addition, management continues to review and take additional actions to offset 

potential reset risk, such as establishment of a borrower outreach program to 

provide reset risk education, establishment of a reset risk mitigation unit and 

proactively contacting high-risk borrowers. For further information on reset 

risk, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠCredit and Market Risksﬂ above.Net Credit Losses and DelinquenciesThe following charts detail the quarterly credit trends for Citi™s home equity 
loan portfolio in North America.4Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™13293283273263253North America Home Equity Š EOP LoansIn billions of dollarsCiti HoldingsCiticorp$32$31$30$28$294Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™13(1)(2)169314021143982871North America Home Equity Š Net Credit LossesIn millions of dollarsCiti HoldingsCiticorp$173$143$117$88$100Total NCL
˜˚˘˛Citi Holdings˜˚ˆ˛˜˚˘˛˜˚ˇ˛Citicorp˝˚˘˛˝˚ˇ˛€














˚
North America Home Equity Loan Delinquencies 
Š Citi HoldingsIn billions of dollars ˜˚
0.00.51.0
1.52.04Q™143Q™142Q™141Q™144Q™133Q™132Q™131Q™134Q™120.630.520.480.430.420.350.340.330.320.470.370.330.300.250.230.210.200.190.350.350.350.340.330.320.310.310.301.451.241.161.071.000.890.850.840.82€
86As evidenced by the tables above, home equity loan net credit losses and delinquencies improved during 2014, albeit at a slower pace than the prior year, primarily due to continued modifications and liquidations. 

Given the limited market in which to sell delinquent home equity loans, as 
well as the relatively smaller number of home equity loan modifications 
and modification programs (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), Citi™s ability to reduce delinquencies or net credit losses 

in its home equity loan portfolio in Citi Holdings, whether pursuant to 
deterioration of the underlying credit performance of these loans, the reset of 
the Revolving HELOCs (as discussed above) or otherwise, is more limited as 
compared to residential first mortgages.North America Home Equity LoansŠState Delinquency Trends
The following tables set forth, for total Citigroup, the six states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s home equity loans as of December 31, 
2014 and December 31, 2013.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014

State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% CLTV >
 100% (3)Refreshed FICO˛˛
˜˝˝˛$7.428%1.5%10%729—˛˛˜ˆ˛6.7252.411721ˆ˜˙‘œ1.872.236707ˆˇˇˆ˝ˇ1.141.435716ˇ0.831.731688˜˚˝ˇˆ0.622.246716˝˚ˆ8.1301.719703˜˚ˆTotal
$26.6100%1.8%17%715—˜˝˝˛˛˛€






”“‰
Citigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations and 
Warranties Repurchase Reserve
In connection with Citi™s sales of residential mortgage loans to the GSEs 
and private investors, as well as through private-label residential mortgage 
securitizations, Citi typically makes representations and warranties that the 
loans sold meet certain requirements, such as the loan™s compliance with 
any applicable loan criteria established by the buyer and the validity of the 
lien securing the loan. The specific representations and warranties made by 
Citi in any particular transaction depend on, among other things, the nature 
of the transaction and the requirements of the investor (e.g., whole loan sale 
to the GSEs versus loans sold through securitization transactions), as well as 
the credit quality of the loan (e.g., prime, Alt-A or subprime).These sales expose Citi to potential claims for alleged breaches of its representations and warranties. In the event of such a breach, Citi could be 
required either to repurchase the mortgage loans with the identified defects 
(generally at unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest) or to indemnify 
(ﬁmake wholeﬂ) the investors for their losses on these loans.Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for purposes of its potential representation and warranty repurchase liability resulting from its whole 
loan sales to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent, private investors, which are 
made through Citi™s consumer business in CitiMortgage. The repurchase 

reserve was approximately $224 million and $341 million as of December 31, 
2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. 
For additional information, see Notes 27 and 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.87CONSUMER LOAN DETAILSConsumer Loan Delinquency Amounts and RatiosTotal
 loans (1)90+ days past due (2)30-89 days past due (2)December 31,December 31,December 31,In millions of dollars, except EOP loan amounts in billions
20142014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Citicorp (3)(4)˙
$297.2$2,664$2,820
0.90%0.95%Retail banking˙
$151.7$840$902
0.56%0.60%North America46.8225212˜˜˝
0.49%0.46%EMEA5.41942
0.35%0.78%Latin America
27.7410˝˜˝315
1.48%1.14%Asia71.8186333
0.26%0.46%Cards˙
$145.5$1,824$1,918
1.25%1.32%North AmericaŠCiti-branded67.5593568
0.88%0.84%North AmericaŠCiti retail services
46.5678748
1.46%1.61%EMEA2.230˝˜34
1.36%1.55%Latin America
10.9345329
3.17%3.02%Asia18.4178239
0.97%1.30%Citi Holdings (5)(6)˙
$72.6$1,975$1,699
2.88%2.48%International
1.81236˜˚˚
0.67%2.00%North America70.81,9631,663
2.94%2.49%0.2Total Citigroup
$370.0$4,639$4,519
1.27%1.24%˙

†˘

North AmericaŠCiti-branded North AmericaŠCiti retail services

†˘

†˘
North America


˘
’
†˘



’

†˘
North America



’
†˘


’

†˘
North America
’


Consumer loans
88Consumer Loan Net Credit Losses and RatiosAverage
 loans (1)Net credit losses (2)In millions of dollars, except average loan amounts in billions
20142014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Citicorp˙
$297.8$7,051
2.37%Retail banking˙
$155.6$1,429
0.92%North America46.4140
0.30%EMEA5.720
0.35%Latin America
29.8948
3.18%Asia73.7321
0.44%Cards˙
$142.2$5,622
3.95%North AmericaŠCiti-branded66.42,197
3.31%North AmericaŠRetail services
43.21,866
4.32%EMEA2.441
1.71%Latin America
11.61,060
9.14%Asia18.6458
2.46%Citi Holdings˙
$82.9$1,626
1.96%International
4.068
1.70%North America78.91,558
1.97%Other Š8Total Citigroup
$380.7$8,685
2.28%Ł

Consumer loans
89Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing U.S. Consumer MortgagesIn millions of dollars at year end 2014
Due within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than  5 yearsTotal
U.S. Consumer mortgage loan 
portfolio
$116$1,260$68,199$69,5755,26212,7088,98826,958Total
$5,378$13,968$77,187$96,533Fixed/variable pricing of U.S. 
Consumer mortgage loans  
with maturities due after  
one year
$1,463$56,023

12,50521,164Total
$13,968$77,18790CORPORATE CREDIT DETAILSConsistent with its overall strategy, Citi™s corporate clients are typically large, multinational corporations that value Citi™s global network. Citi aims to 
establish relationships with these clients that encompass multiple products, 
consistent with client needs, including cash management and trade services, 
foreign exchange, lending, capital markets and M&A advisory. For additional 
information on corporate credit risk management, see ﬁCountry and 
Cross-Border RiskŠEmerging Markets Exposuresﬂ below.The following table sets forth Citi™s corporate credit portfolio (excluding 
private bank in ICG), before consideration of collateral or hedges, by 
remaining tenor at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013. The 
vast majority of Citi™s corporate credit portfolio resides in 
ICG; as of 
December 31, 2014, less than 1% of Citi™s corporate credit exposure resided in 

Citi Holdings.At December 31, 2014

In billions of dollarsDue within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than 5 yearsTotal
 Exposure


˙
$95$85$33$213
9220733332˜˛˝˛˜Total exposure
$187$292$66$545

Portfolio MixŠGeography, Counterparty and Industry
Citi™s corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. 
The following table shows the percentage by region based on Citi™s internal 
management geography:December 31, 2014˜˚˛˝North America55%EMEA25Asia13Latin America
7Total
100%˛˚˚The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the corporate credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across 
all lines of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk 
ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are 
derived primarily through the use of validated statistical models, scorecard 
models and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), 
in combination with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or 
market, such as management experience, competitive position, regulatory 
environment and commodity prices. Facility risk ratings are assigned that 
reflect the probability of default of the obligor and factors that affect the 
loss-given-default of the facility, such as support or collateral. Internal 

obligor ratings that generally correspond to BBB and above are considered 
investment grade, while those below are considered non-investment grade.Citigroup also has incorporated climate risk assessment and reporting criteria for certain obligors, as necessary. Factors evaluated include 

consideration of climate risk to an obligor™s business and physical assets and, 

when relevant, consideration of cost-effective options to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions.The following table presents the corporate credit portfolio by facility risk rating at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, as a percentage of the 
total corporate credit portfolio:Total Exposure
December 31, 2014˜˚˛˝ŁŁŁłŁŁłŁ49%ﬂﬂﬂ33˝˚ﬂﬂłﬂ161˜
1œTotal
100%˛˚˚˙
91Citi™s corporate credit portfolio is also diversified by industry. The following table shows the allocation of Citi™s total corporate credit portfolio by industry:Total Exposure
December 31, 2014˜˚˛˝˙
21%˜˜17
10˛˚’
10˛˚˙’
9˛˚
8˛˚
65554˝Total
100%˛˚˚˙









There has recently been a focus on the energy sector, given the decline 
in oil prices during the latter part of 2014. As of December 31, 2014, Citi™s 

total corporate credit exposure to the energy and energy-related sector 
(see footnote 1 to the table above) was approximately $60 billion, with 
approximately $22 billion, or 3%, of Citi™s total outstanding loans consisting 

of direct outstanding funded loans. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, 
approximately 70% of Citi™s total corporate credit energy and energy-related 

exposure (based on the methodology described above) was in the United 
States, United Kingdom and Canada. Also as of year-end 2014, approximately 

85% of Citi™s total energy and energy-related exposures were rated 

investment grade.Credit Risk MitigationAs part of its overall risk management activities, Citigroup uses credit 
derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in 
its corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. The results 
of the mark-to-market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives 
are reflected in Principal transactions on the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, $27.6 billion and $27.2 billion, respectively, of the corporate credit portfolio was economically 

hedged. Citigroup™s expected loss model used in the calculation of its loan 

loss reserve does not include the favorable impact of credit derivatives 
and other mitigants that are marked-to-market. In addition, the reported 
amounts of direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments in 
the tables above do not reflect the impact of these hedging transactions. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the credit protection was 
economically hedging underlying corporate credit portfolio exposures with 
the following risk rating distribution:Rating of Hedged ExposureDecember 31, 2014˜˚˛˝ŁŁŁłŁŁłŁ24%ﬂﬂﬂ42ﬂﬂłﬂ286Total
100%˛˚˚At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the credit protection was economically hedging underlying corporate credit portfolio exposures with 
the following industry distribution:Industry of Hedged ExposureDecember 31, 2014˜˚˛˝˙
30%˝˛
15˙’
1511’
10
7642˜Total
100%˛˚˚For additional information on Citi™s corporate credit portfolio, including 
allowance for loan losses, coverage ratios and corporate non-accrual loans, 
see ﬁCredit RiskŠLoans Outstanding, Details of Credit Loss Experience, 
Allowance for Loan Losses and Non-Accrual Loans and Assetsﬂ above.92Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing Corporate LoansIn millions of dollars at 
 
December 31, 2014
Due within 1 yearOver 1 year but within 5 yearsOver 5 yearsTotal
Corporate loan portfolio maturitiesIn U.S. offices
$17,348$11,403$6,304$35,05517,95011,7996,52336,272
16,10210,5845,85132,5378705723161,758
14,4559,5005,25229,207
93,12436,38710,879140,390Total corporate loans
$159,849$80,245$35,125$275,219Fixed/variable pricing of 
Corporate loans with maturities due after one 
year (1)
$9,960$11,453

70,28323,673Total
$80,243$35,126


93MARKET RISKMarket risk encompasses funding and liquidity risk and price risk, each of which arises in the normal course of business of a global financial 
intermediary such as Citi.Market Risk ManagementEach business is required to establish, with approval from Citi™s market risk 
management, a market risk limit framework for identified risk factors that 
clearly defines approved risk profiles and is within the parameters of Citi™s 
overall risk tolerance. These limits are monitored by independent market 
risk, Citi™s country and business Asset and Liability Committees and the 
Citigroup Asset and Liability Committee. In all cases, the businesses are 
ultimately responsible for the market risks taken and for remaining within 
their defined limits.Funding and Liquidity RiskAdequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi™s businesses. 
Funding and liquidity risks arise from several factors, many of which Citi 
cannot control, such as disruptions in the financial markets, changes in key 
funding sources, credit spreads, changes in Citi™s credit ratings and political 
and economic conditions in certain countries. For additional information, 
see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Overview
Citi™s funding and liquidity objectives are to maintain adequate liquidity 
to (i) fund its existing asset base; (ii) grow its core businesses in Citicorp; 
(iii) maintain sufficient liquidity, structured appropriately, so that it can 
operate under a wide variety of market conditions, including market 
disruptions for both short- and long-term periods; and (iv) satisfy regulatory 
requirements. Citigroup™s primary liquidity objectives are established by 
entity, and in aggregate, across three major categories:the parent entity, which includes the parent holding company (Citigroup) and Citi™s broker-dealer subsidiaries that are consolidated into Citigroup 
(collectively referred to in this section as ﬁparentﬂ);Citi™s significant Citibank entities, which consist of Citibank, N.A. 
units domiciled in the U.S., Western Europe, Hong Kong, Japan and 
Singapore (collectively referred to in this section as ﬁsignificant Citibank 
entitiesﬂ); andother Citibank and Banamex entities. At an aggregate level, Citigroup™s goal is to maintain sufficient funding 
in amount and tenor to fully fund customer assets and to provide an appropriate amount of cash and high quality liquid assets (as discussed 
further below), even in times of stress. The liquidity framework provides that 
entities be self-sufficient or net providers of liquidity, including in conditions 

established under their designated stress tests.Citi™s primary sources of funding include (i)
 deposits via Citi™s bank 
subsidiaries, which are Citi™s most stable and lowest cost source of long-

term funding, (ii) long-term debt (primarily senior and subordinated 
debt) primarily issued at the parent and certain bank subsidiaries, and 
(iii) stockholders™ equity. These sources may be supplemented by short-term 

borrowings, primarily in the form of secured funding transactions.As referenced above, Citigroup works to ensure that the structural tenor of these funding sources is sufficiently long in relation to the tenor of its asset 
base. The goal of Citi™s asset/liability management is to ensure that there is 

excess tenor in the liability structure so as to provide excess liquidity after 
funding the assets. The excess liquidity resulting from a longer-term tenor 

profile can effectively offset potential decreases in liquidity that may occur 
under stress. This excess funding is held in the form of high-quality liquid 
assets (HQLA), as set forth in the table below.
94High-Quality Liquid Assets Parent
Significant  Citibank EntitiesOther Citibank and  Banamex Entities
Total
In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2014
Dec. 31, 
2014
Dec. 31, 
2014
Dec. 31, 
2014
Ł
$37.5$54.6$10.6$102.735.0203.171.8$309.9Total
$72.5$257.7$82.4$412.6˙

As set forth in the table above, Citi™s HQLA under the final U.S. LCR rules 
as of December 31, 2014 was $412.6 billion, compared to $416.4 billion 
as of September 30, 2014. The decrease in HQLA quarter-over-quarter was 

primarily driven by a reduction in deposits in the significant Citibank entities 
(see ﬁDepositsﬂ below), partially offset by long-term debt issuance, increased 
short-term borrowings and replacement of non-HQLA securities with 
HQLA-eligible securities, each in the parent entity.
Prior to September 30, 2014, Citi reported its HQLA based on the Basel Committee™s final LCR rules. On this basis, Citi™s total HQLA was 

$423.7 billion as of December 31, 2013. Year-over-year, the decrease in Citi™s 

HQLA was primarily due to the impact of the final U.S. LCR rules, which 
excluded municipal securities, covered bonds and residential mortgage-
backed securities from the definition of HQLA, partially offset by an increase 
in credit card securitizations and Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB) 
advances, each in Citibank, N.A.The following table shows further detail of the composition of Citi™s 
HQLA by type of asset as of December 31, 2014 and September 30, 2014. For 
securities, the amounts represent the liquidity value that potentially could be 
realized, and thus exclude any securities that are encumbered, as well as the 
haircuts that would be required for secured financing transactions.In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2014
Ł
$102.7˙
139.5
57.1110.2
3.1Total
$412.6







˙
Citi™s HQLA as set forth above does not include additional potential 
liquidity in the form of Citigroup™s borrowing capacity from the various 

FHLB, which was approximately $26 billion as of December 31, 2014 
(compared to $22 billion as of September 30, 2014 and $30 billion as of 
December 31, 2013) and is maintained by pledged collateral to all such 
banks. The HQLA shown above also does not include Citi™s borrowing capacity 

at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank discount window or international central 
banks, which would be in addition to the resources noted above.In general, Citigroup can freely fund legal entities within its bank vehicles. Citigroup™s bank subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A., can lend 

to the Citigroup parent and broker-dealer entities in accordance with 

Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. As of December 31, 2014, the amount 
available for lending to these entities under Section 23A was approximately 
$17 billion (unchanged from September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013), 
subject to collateral requirements.95DepositsDeposits are the primary and lowest cost funding source for Citi™s bank 
subsidiaries. The table below sets forth the end-of-period deposits, by 
business and/or segment, and the total average deposits for each of the 
periods indicated.In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
 2014

˜˚˛˝Global Consumer BankingNorth America$171.4EMEA12.8Latin America
45.5Asia (1)77.9Total
$307.6ICG
˙
$378.685.9Markets and securities services
94.4Total
$558.9Corporate/Other
22.8Total Citicorp
$889.3˙
10.0Total Citigroup deposits (EOP)
$899.3˙
$938.7
–

¦˘



˘






End-of-period deposits decreased 7% year-over-year and 5% quarter-
over-quarter, each primarily due to the reclassification to held-for-sale of 

approximately $21 billion of deposits as a result of Citigroup™s entry into an 

agreement in December 2014 to sell its Japan retail banking business, as well 
as the impact of FX translation.Excluding these items, Citigroup deposits declined 2% year-over-year, 
as 1% growth in Citicorp deposits was more than offset by the continued 
decline in Citi Holdings due to the ongoing transfer of MSSB deposits to 
Morgan Stanley. Within Citicorp, 
GCB deposits increased 2% year-over-year, 

with growth in all four regions. North America GCB deposits increased 
1% year-over-year, with a continued focus on growing checking account 

balances, and international deposits grew 3% year-over-year. 
ICG deposits 
increased 1% year-over-year, with 3% growth in treasury and trade solutions 

balances, partially offset by reductions in markets-related businesses. Average 

deposits were relatively unchanged year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter, 

as growth in Citicorp was offset by the ongoing transfer of MSSB deposits to 
Morgan Stanley.
Citi monitors its deposit base across multiple dimensions, including what Citi refers to as ﬁLCR valueﬂ or the liquidity value of the deposit base under 
the LCR rules. Under LCR rules, deposits are assigned liquidity values based 
on expected behavior under stress, the type of deposit and the type of client. 
Generally, the final U.S. LCR rules prioritize operating accounts of consumers 

(including retail and commercial banking deposits) and corporations, while 
assigning lower liquidity values to non-operating balances of financial 
institutions. Citi estimates that as of December 31, 2014, its total deposits had 
a liquidity value of approximately 73% under the LCR rules, up from 72% as 
of September 30, 2014 and 71% as of December 31, 2013, with the gradual 
increase primarily driven by reductions in lower LCR value deposits.Long-Term DebtLong-term debt (generally defined as debt with original maturities of one 
year or more) represents the most significant component of Citi™s funding 
for the parent entities and is a supplementary source of funding for the 
bank entities.Long-term debt is an important funding source due in part to its multi-year maturity structure. The weighted-average maturities of unsecured 
long-term debt issued by Citigroup and its affiliates (including Citibank, 
N.A.) with a remaining life greater than one year (excluding remaining 
trust preferred securities outstanding) was approximately 6.9 years as of 
December 31, 2014, largely unchanged from the prior quarter and year. Citi 

believes this term structure enables it to meet its business needs and maintain 
adequate liquidity.
Citi™s long-term debt outstanding at the parent includes benchmark debt 
and what Citi refers to as customer-related debt, consisting of structured 

notes, such as equity- and credit-linked notes, as well as non-structured 
notes. Citi™s issuance of customer-related debt is generally driven by customer 

demand and supplements benchmark debt issuance as a source of funding 
for Citi™s parent entities. Citi™s long-term debt at the bank includes FHLB 

advances and securitizations.96Long-Term Debt OutstandingThe following table sets forth Citi™s total long-term debt outstanding for the 
periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
2014

˜˚˛˝Parent
$158.096.7
25.5˙
1.7
22.35.9
5.9Bank$65.119.8
38.1
7.2Total long-term debt
$223.1
“



“


Year-over-year, Citi™s total long-term debt outstanding increased slightly, as 
modest reductions at the parent company were more than offset by continued increases in the bank due to increased credit card securitizations and FHLB 
advances, given the lower-cost nature of these funding sources. Sequentially, 

Citi™s total long-term debt decreased slightly due to maturities and continued 

liability management at the parent and decreases in FHLB advances at 
the bank.As part of its liability management, Citi has considered, and may continue to consider, opportunities to repurchase its long-term debt pursuant to 

open market purchases, tender offers or other means. Such repurchases 
help reduce Citi™s overall funding costs. During 2014, Citi repurchased an 

aggregate of approximately $9.8 billion of its outstanding long-term debt, 
including approximately $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014. Included 
in this total for the year, Citi redeemed $2.1 billion of trust preferred securities 

during 2014 (for Citi™s remaining trust preferred securities outstanding as of 

December 31, 2014, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Going forward, changes in Citi™s long-term debt outstanding will continue 
to reflect the funding needs of its businesses as well as the market and 
economic environment and any regulatory changes or requirements. For 
additional information on regulatory changes and requirements impacting 
Citi™s overall funding and liquidity, see ﬁTotal Loss-Absorbing Capacityﬂ and 

ﬁLiquidity Management, Stress Testing and Measurementﬂ below and ﬁRisk 

Factorsﬂ above.Long-Term Debt Issuances and Maturities
The table below details Citi™s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the periods presented:2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜In billions of dollarsMaturitiesIssuances£˘
£˘
Parent
$38.3$36.018.918.6
5.02.8œ˙
2.1Šœœ
7.59.52.41.4œ
2.43.7œBank$20.6$30.8˙ŠŽ…ŠŠœœœ8.013.9
8.913.6
3.73.3Total
$58.9$66.897The table below shows Citi™s aggregate long-term debt maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during 2014, as well as its aggregate expected annual long-term debt maturities as of December 31, 2014:In billions of dollarsMaturities 201420152016201720182019ThereafterTotal
Parent
$38.318.9
5.0˙
2.1œœœœœ
7.52.4
2.4œœœBank$20.68.0œœ
8.9
3.7Total long-term debt
$58.9Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity (TLAC)
In November 2014, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) issued a consultative 
document proposing requirements designed to ensure that global 
systemically important banks (GSIBs), including Citi, maintain sufficient 
loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity to facilitate an orderly 
resolution. In this regard, the FSB™s proposal builds upon and is consistent 
with the FDIC™s preferred ﬁsingle point of entry strategyﬂ for orderly 
resolution of GSIBs under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (for additional 
information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ above).The FSB™s proposal would establish firm-specific minimum requirements 
for ﬁtotal loss-absorbing capacityﬂ (TLAC), set by reference to the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the ﬁresolution groupﬂ (in Citi™s case, 

Citigroup, the parent bank holding company, and its subsidiaries that are not 

themselves resolution entities). The proposed minimum TLAC requirement, 
referred to as ﬁexternal TLAC,ﬂ would be (i) 16%Œ20% of the resolution 
group™s risk-weighted assets (RWA) and (ii) at least double the amount 

of capital required to meet the relevant Tier 1 Leverage ratio. Qualifying 

regulatory capital instruments in the form of debt plus other eligible TLAC 
that is not regulatory capital would need to constitute 33% of external TLAC. 
Regulatory capital instruments used by the GSIB to satisfy its applicable 
regulatory capital buffers (i.e., the Capital Conservation Buffer, GSIB 

surcharge and, if imposed, the Countercyclical Capital Buffer) could not be 
counted toward the external TLAC requirement.As proposed, TLAC-eligible instruments generally would include Common Equity Tier 1 Capital, preferred stock and unsecured senior and subordinated 

debt issued by the parent holding company with at least one year remaining 
until maturity. Although there is uncertainty regarding the eligibility of 

certain debt instruments, TLAC-eligible instruments would generally exclude 
debt instruments that are secured, issued by operating subsidiaries, or include 

derivatives or derivative-linked features (e.g., certain structured notes). 
Moreover, a GSIB™s eligible TLAC may be reduced by holdings of TLAC-eligible 

instruments issued by other GSIBs.The FSB™s TLAC proposal would also establish ﬁinternal TLACﬂ 
requirements, which would require that each foreign ﬁmaterial subsidiaryﬂ 
(as proposed to be defined under the proposal) of a GSIB that is not otherwise 
a resolution entity maintain a minimum of 75%Œ90% of the external TLAC 
requirement that would apply if the subsidiary was a resolution entity. 

While many aspects of this requirement are uncertain, the internal TLAC 
proposal would effectually require ﬁpre-positioningﬂ of TLAC to the required 
subsidiaries.Pursuant to the FSB™s proposal, the conformance period regarding the 
minimum TLAC requirements would not occur before January 1, 2019. The 
U.S. banking agencies are expected to propose rules to establish similar TLAC 
requirements for U.S. GSIBs during 2015. There are significant uncertainties 
and interpretive issues arising from the FSB proposal. For additional 
information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ above.98Secured Funding Transactions and Short-Term BorrowingsSecured FundingSecured funding is primarily conducted through Citi™s broker-dealer 
subsidiaries to fund efficiently both secured lending activity and a portion of 
trading inventory. Citi also conducts a smaller portion of its secured funding 
transactions through its bank entities, which is typically collateralized by 
foreign government securities. Generally, daily changes in the level of Citi™s 
secured funding are primarily due to fluctuations in secured lending activity 
in the matched book (as described below) and trading inventory.Secured funding declined to $173 billion as of December 31, 2014, compared to $176 billion as of September 30, 2014 and $204 billion as of 
December 31, 2013, due to the impact of FX translation and Citi™s continued 

optimization of secured funding. Average balances for secured funding 

were approximately $187 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2014, 
compared to $182 billion for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 and $211 
billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2013. The portion of secured funding in the broker-dealer subsidiaries that 
funds secured lending is commonly referred to as ﬁmatched bookﬂ activity. 

The majority of this activity is secured by high quality, liquid securities such 

as U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities and foreign sovereign 

debt. Other secured funding is secured by less liquid securities, including 
equity securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities. The tenor 
of Citi™s matched book liabilities is equal to or longer than the tenor of the 

corresponding matched book assets.The remainder of the secured funding activity in the broker-dealer 
subsidiaries serves to fund trading inventory. To maintain reliable funding 

under a wide range of market conditions, including under periods of stress, 
Citi manages these activities by taking into consideration the quality of the 
underlying collateral, and stipulating financing tenor. The weighted average 

maturity of Citi™s secured funding of less liquid trading inventory was greater 

than 110 days as of December 31, 2014.Citi manages the risks in its secured funding by conducting daily stress tests to account for changes in capacity, tenors, haircut, collateral profile and 

client actions. Additionally, Citi maintains counterparty diversification by 

establishing concentration triggers and assessing counterparty reliability and 
stability under stress. Citi generally sources secured funding from more than 
150 counterparties.Short-Term BorrowingsAs referenced above, Citi supplements its primary sources of funding with 
short-term borrowings. Short-term borrowings generally include (i) secured 
funding transactions (securities loaned or sold under agreements to 
repurchase, or repos) and (ii) to a lesser extent, short-term borrowings 
consisting of commercial paper and borrowings from the FHLB and other 
market participants (see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for further information on Citigroup™s and its affiliates™ outstanding 
short-term borrowings).The following table contains the year-end, average and maximum month-end amounts for the following respective short-term borrowings categories at the 
end of each of the three prior fiscal years.Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under agreements to repurchaseShort-term borrowings(1Commercial paper(2)Other short-term borrowings(3)In billions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜
$173.4$16.2$42.1Ł
190.016.845.3200.117.947.1Weighted-average interest rate
1.00%0.21%1.20%0.490.230.53




Ł–
Ł

99Liquidity Management, Stress Testing and MeasurementLiquidity ManagementCiti™s HQLA is managed by the Citi Treasurer. Liquidity is managed via 
a centralized treasury model by Corporate Treasury and by in-country 
treasurers. Pursuant to this structure, Citi™s HQLA is managed with a goal of 
ensuring the asset/liability match and that liquidity positions are appropriate 
in every entity and throughout Citi (for additional information on Citi™s 
liquidity objectives, see ﬁOverviewﬂ above).Citi™s Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall risk profile of Citi™s 
HQLA. The Chief Risk Officer and Citi™s Chief Financial Officer co-chair 

Citi™s Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which includes Citi™s 

Treasurer and senior executives. ALCO sets the strategy of the liquidity 

portfolio and monitors its performance. Significant changes to portfolio asset 
allocations need to be approved by ALCO.Stress TestingLiquidity stress testing is performed for each of Citi™s major entities, operating 
subsidiaries and/or countries. Stress testing and scenario analyses are 
intended to quantify the potential impact of a liquidity event on the balance 
sheet and liquidity position, and to identify viable funding alternatives that 
can be utilized. These scenarios include assumptions about significant 
changes in key funding sources, market triggers (such as credit ratings), 
potential uses of funding and political and economic conditions in certain 
countries. These conditions include standard and stressed market conditions 
as well as Company-specific events.A wide range of liquidity stress tests is important for monitoring purposes. These potential liquidity events are useful to ascertain potential mismatches 
between liquidity sources and uses over a variety of time horizons (overnight, 
one week, two weeks, one month, three months, one year, two years) and 

over a variety of stressed conditions. Liquidity limits are set accordingly. To 

monitor the liquidity of a unit, these stress tests and potential mismatches are 
calculated with varying frequencies, with several tests performed daily.
Given the range of potential stresses, Citi maintains a series of contingency funding plans on a consolidated basis and for individual 
entities. These plans specify a wide range of readily available actions for a 
variety of adverse market conditions or idiosyncratic disruptions.Short-Term Liquidity Measurement; Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)In addition to internal measures that Citi has developed for a 30-day stress 
scenario, Citi also monitors its liquidity by reference to the LCR, as calculated 
pursuant to the final U.S. LCR rules.Generally, the LCR is designed to ensure that banks maintain an 
adequate level of HQLA to meet liquidity needs under an acute 30-day 
stress scenario. Under the final U.S. rules, the LCR is calculated by dividing 
HQLA by estimated net outflows over a stressed 30-day period, with the net 
outflows determined by applying assumed outflow factors, prescribed in the 
rules, to various categories of liabilities, such as deposits, unsecured and 
secured wholesale borrowings, unused commitments and derivatives-related 
exposures, partially offset by inflows from assets maturing within 30 days. In addition, the final U.S. rules require that banks estimate net outflows based 
on the highest individual day™s mismatch between contractual and certain 

non-defined maturity inflows and outflows, known as the ﬁpeak dayﬂ outflow 
requirement. Citi™s LCR is subject to a minimum requirement of 100%.
The table below sets forth the components of Citi™s estimated 
LCR calculation and HQLA in excess of estimated net outflows as of 
December 31, 2014 and September 30, 2014.in billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2014
$412.6
$368.6
112%˛˛˛
$44.0
As set forth in the table above, Citi™s estimated LCR under the final U.S. LCR 
rules was 112% as of December 31, 2014 and 111% as of September 30, 2014. 
The increase quarter-over-quarter was primarily driven by deposit flows and 
improvements in the quality of Citi™s deposit base.Prior to September 30, 2014, Citi reported its LCR based on the Basel Committee™s final LCR rules. On this basis, Citi™s estimated LCR was 117% 

as of December 31, 2013. Year-over-year, the decrease in Citi™s estimated LCR 

was primarily due to the impact of the final U.S. LCR rules. Specifically, as 

discussed under ﬁHigh Quality Liquid Assetsﬂ above, the final U.S. LCR rules 
excluded certain assets from the calculation of HQLA. In addition, estimated 
net outflows are higher under the final U.S. LCR rules, primarily due to the 
ﬁpeak dayﬂ outflow requirement discussed above as well as higher deposit 
outflow assumptions resulting from the more stringent deposit classifications 
(e.g., the nature of the deposit balance or counterparty designation) under 
the final U.S. LCR rules.Long-Term Liquidity Measurement: Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)For 12-month liquidity stress periods, Citi uses several measures, including 
its internal long-term liquidity measure, based on a 12-month scenario 
assuming market, credit and economic conditions are moderately to highly 
stressed with potential further deterioration. It is broadly defined as the ratio 
of unencumbered liquidity resources to net stressed cumulative outflows over 
a 12-month period.In addition, in October 2014, the Basel Committee issued final standards for the implementation of the Basel III NSFR, with full compliance required 
by January 1, 2018. Similar to Citi™s internal long-term liquidity measure, the 

NSFR is intended to measure the stability of a banking organization™s stable 

funding over a one-year time horizon. The NSFR is calculated by dividing the 
level of its available stable funding by its required stable funding. The ratio 
is required to be greater than 100%. Under the Basel III standards, available 
stable funding includes portions of equity, deposits and long-term debt, while 

required stable funding includes the portion of long-term assets which are 
deemed illiquid. Citi anticipates that the U.S. regulators will propose a U.S. 
version of the NSFR during 2015.100Credit RatingsCitigroup™s funding and liquidity, its funding capacity, ability to access 
capital markets and other sources of funds, the cost of these funds, and its 
ability to maintain certain deposits are partially dependent on its credit 
ratings. The table below sets forth the ratings for Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. 
as of December 31, 2014. While not included in the table below, Citigroup 
Global Markets Inc. (CGMI) is rated A/A-1 by Standard & Poor™s and A/F1 by 
Fitch as of December 31, 2014.Debt Ratings as of December 31, 2014Citigroup Inc.Citibank, N.A.
Senior  debtCommercial  paperOutlookLong- termShort- termOutlook
AF1StableAF1Stable£ˆˆ†’⁄
Baa2P-2StableA2P-1Stable
A-A-2NegativeAA-1StableRecent Credit Rating Developments
On December 17, 2014, Fitch issued a bank ﬁcriteria exposure draft.ﬂ The 
document consolidates all bank rating criteria into one report and refines 
certain aspects of the criteria, including clarification as to when the agency 
might rate an operating company™s long-term rating above its unsupported 
rating due to the protection offered to senior creditors by loss absorbing 
junior instruments. Since March 2014, Fitch has been contemplating the 
introduction of a ratings differential between U.S. bank holding companies 
and operating companies due to the evolving regulatory landscape. 
Currently, Fitch equalizes holding company and operating company ratings, 
reflecting what it views as the close correlation between default probabilities.On November 24, 2014, S&P issued a proposal to add a component to its bank rating methodology to address how a bank™s long-term rating may be 

higher than the bank™s unsupported rating due to ﬁadditional loss absorbing 

capacityﬂ (ALAC). The ALAC proposal considers that loss absorption by 
instruments subject to bail-in could partly or fully replace a government 
bail-out and could reduce the likelihood of default on an operating 
company™s senior unsecured debt obligations. S&P continues to evaluate 

government support into the ratings of systemically important U.S. bank 
holding companies.On September 9, 2014, Moody™s also released for comment a new bank 
rating methodology. The new methodology proposed a streamlined baseline 

credit assessment (with removal of the bank financial strength rating) and 
introduced a ﬁloss given failureﬂ assessment into the ratings. The comment 
period has closed and resolution is expected in early 2015.Potential Impacts of Ratings Downgrades
Ratings downgrades by Moody™s, Fitch or S&P could negatively impact 
Citigroup™s and/or Citibank, N.A.™s funding and liquidity due to reduced 
funding capacity, including derivatives triggers, which could take the form of 
cash obligations and collateral requirements.The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. of 
a hypothetical, simultaneous ratings downgrade across all three major 
rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation 
methodologies, and judgments and uncertainties. Uncertainties include 
potential ratings limitations that certain entities may have with respect 
to permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective counterparty 
behavior. For example, certain corporate customers and trading 

counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi 
and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi. 
Changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi™s funding and liquidity, 

as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. The actual 
impact to Citigroup or Citibank, N.A. is unpredictable and may differ 
materially from the potential funding and liquidity impacts described below. 

For additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi 
and its applicable subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above.101Citigroup Inc. and Citibank, N.A.ŠPotential Derivative TriggersAs of December 31, 2014, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch 
downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup Inc. across all 
three major rating agencies could impact Citigroup™s funding and liquidity 
due to derivative triggers by approximately $0.8 billion, unchanged from 
September 30, 2014. Other funding sources, such as secured financing 
transactions and other margin requirements, for which there are no explicit 
triggers, could also be adversely affected.As of December 31, 2014, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank, N.A. across all 
three major rating agencies could impact Citibank, N.A.™s funding and 

liquidity by approximately $1.3 billion, compared to $1.7 billion as of 
September 30, 2014, due to derivative triggers.In total, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., across all three major rating agencies, could result in 
aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately 
$2.1 billion, compared to $2.5 billion as of September 30, 2014 (see also 
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). As set forth under 
ﬁHigh Quality Liquid Assetsﬂ above, the liquidity resources of Citi™s parent 

entities were approximately $73 billion, and the liquidity resources of Citi™s 

significant Citibank entities and other Citibank and Banamex entities were 
approximately $340 billion, for a total of approximately $413 billion as 
of December 31, 2014. These liquidity resources are available in part as a 
contingency for the potential events described above.In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup™s and Citibank, N.A.™s contingency funding plans. For Citigroup, 

these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, accessing surplus 
funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of secured lending, 
and adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized borrowings 
from Citi™s significant bank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions available to 

Citibank, N.A. include, but are not limited to, selling or financing highly 
liquid government securities, tailoring levels of secured lending, adjusting 
the size of select trading books, reducing loan originations and renewals, 
raising additional deposits, or borrowing from the FHLB or central banks. Citi 
believes these mitigating actions could substantially reduce the funding and 
liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above.
Citibank, N.A.ŠAdditional Potential Impacts
In addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential 
one-notch downgrade of Citibank, N.A.™s senior debt/long-term rating by 
S&P and Fitch could also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/
short-term rating of Citibank, N.A. As of December 31, 2014, Citibank, N.A. 
had liquidity commitments of approximately $16.1 billion to consolidated 
asset-backed commercial paper conduits, compared to $17.6 billion 
as of September 30, 2014 (as referenced in Note 22 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).In addition to the above-referenced liquidity resources of Citi™s significant 
Citibank entities and other Citibank and Banamex entities, Citibank, 
N.A. could reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential 

downgrades described above through mitigating actions, including repricing 
or reducing certain commitments to commercial paper conduits. In the 
event of the potential downgrades described above, Citi believes that certain 
corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit relationships with 
Citibank, N.A. This re-evaluation could result in clients adjusting their 
discretionary deposit levels or changing their depository institution, which 
could potentially reduce certain deposit levels at Citibank, N.A. However, 

Citi could choose to adjust pricing, offer alternative deposit products to its 
existing customers or seek to attract deposits from new customers, in addition 
to the mitigating actions referenced above.102Price RiskPrice risk losses arise from fluctuations in the market value of non-trading and trading positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit 
spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices, and in their 
implied volatilities.Price Risk Measurement and Stress TestingPrice risks are measured in accordance with established standards to 
ensure consistency across businesses and the ability to aggregate risk. The 
measurements used for non-trading and trading portfolios, as well as 
associated stress testing processes, are described below.Price RiskŠNon-Trading Portfolios
Net Interest Revenue and Interest Rate RiskNet interest revenue, for interest rate exposure purposes, is the difference 
between the yield earned on the non-trading portfolio assets (including 
customer loans) and the rate paid on the liabilities (including customer 
deposits or company borrowings). Net interest revenue is affected by changes 
in the level of interest rates, as well as the amounts of assets and liabilities, 
and the timing of repricing of assets and liabilities to reflect market rates.Interest Rate Risk MeasurementŠIRECiti™s principal measure of risk to net interest revenue is interest rate 
exposure (IRE). IRE measures the change in expected net interest revenue 
in each currency resulting solely from unanticipated changes in forward 
interest rates.Citi™s estimated IRE incorporates various assumptions including 
prepayment rates on loans, customer behavior, and the impact of pricing 

decisions. For example, in rising interest rate scenarios, portions of the 
deposit portfolio may be assumed to experience rate increases that are less 
than the change in market interest rates. In declining interest rate scenarios, 
it is assumed that mortgage portfolios experience higher prepayment rates. 
IRE assumes that businesses and/or Citi Treasury make no additional 

changes in balances or positioning in response to the unanticipated 
rate changes.Mitigation and Hedging of Interest Rate Risk
In order to manage changes in interest rates effectively, Citi may modify 
pricing on new customer loans and deposits, purchase fixed rate securities, 
issue debt that is either fixed or floating or enter into derivative transactions 
that have the opposite risk exposures. Citi regularly assesses the viability of 
these and other strategies to reduce its interest rate risks and implements 
such strategies when it believes those actions are prudent.Citi manages interest rate risk as a consolidated company-wide position. Citi™s client-facing businesses create interest rate sensitive positions, 

including loans and deposits, as part of their ongoing activities. Citi Treasury 

aggregates these risk positions and manages them centrally. Operating within 

established limits, Citi Treasury makes positioning decisions and uses tools, 

such as Citi™s investment securities portfolio, company-issued debt, and 

interest rate derivatives, to target the desired risk profile. Changes in Citi™s 

interest rate risk position reflect the accumulated changes in all non-trading 
assets and liabilities, with potentially large and offsetting impacts, as well as 
Citi Treasury™s positioning decisions.
Stress TestingCitigroup employs additional measurements, including stress testing the 
impact of non-linear interest rate movements on the value of the balance 
sheet; the analysis of portfolio duration and volatility, particularly as they 
relate to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities; and the potential 
impact of the change in the spread between different market indices.Interest Rate Risk MeasurementŠOCI at RiskCiti also measures the potential impacts of changes in interest rates on the 
value of its Other Comprehensive Income (OCI), which can in turn impact 
Citi™s Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio. Citi™s goal is to benefit from an 
increase in the market level of interest rates, while limiting the impact of 
changes in OCI on its regulatory capital position.OCI at risk is managed as part of the company-wide interest rate risk position. OCI at risk considers potential changes in OCI (and the 
corresponding impact on the Common Equity Tier
 1 Capital ratio) relative to 
Citi™s capital generation capacity.
103
The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi™s net interest revenue, OCI and the Common Equity Tier
 
1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented 
basis), each assuming an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates.
In millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)
Dec. 31, 
2014



˜˚˛˝
Estimated annualized impact to net interest revenue


$
1,123





629


˙
$
1,752




A˙ˆ˙%˙˛˙ˆ˝ˆ˙˘˝-ˆ˝˘˙ˆ
0.11%


‡ˇ—˘ˇ†ˇ˘—š˘ˇˇˆƒı˘“ˇ•ˇ˘−

$
(3,961)



˙



(44)
















˙


The decrease in the estimated impact to net interest revenue from the prior 
year primarily reflected Citi Treasury actions (as described under ﬁMitigation 
and Hedging of Interest Rate Riskﬂ above), which more than offset changes 
in balance sheet composition, including the continued seasoning of Citi™s 
deposit balances and increases in Citi™s capital base. The change in the 
estimated impact to OCI and the Common Equity Tier
 
1 Capital ratio 
from the prior year primarily reflected changes in the composition of Citi 
Treasury™s investment and interest rate derivatives portfolio.
In the event of an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point 
increase in interest rates, Citi expects the negative impact to OCI would 
be offset in shareholders™ equity through the combination of expected 
incremental net interest revenue and the expected recovery of the impact on 
OCI through accretion of Citi™s investment portfolio over a period of time. 
As of December
 
31, 2014, Citi expects that the negative $4.0 billion impact 
to OCI in such a scenario could potentially be offset over approximately 
22
 
months.
As noted above, Citi routinely evaluates multiple interest rate scenarios, 
including interest rate increases and decreases and steepening and flattening 
of the yield curve, to anticipate how net interest revenue and OCI might 
be impacted in different interest rate environments. The following table 
sets forth the estimated impact to Citi™s net interest revenue, OCI and the 
Common Equity Tier
 
1 Capital ratio (on a fully implemented basis) under 
four different changes in interest rates for the U.S. dollar and Citi™s other 
currencies. While Citi also monitors the impact of a parallel decrease 
in interest rates, a 100 basis point decrease in short-term interest rates 
is not meaningful, as it would imply negative interest rates in many of 
Citi™s markets.
In millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)
Scenario 1
Scenario 2
Scenario 3
Scenario 4

˛˚˚
˛˚˚
œ
œ

˛˚˚
œ
˛˚˚

Estimated annualized impact to net interest revenue














˙





˛˝˛












˙







’





˙


As shown in the table above, the magnitude of the impact to Citi™s 
net interest revenue and OCI is greater under scenario 2 as compared to 
scenario
 
3. This is because the combination of changes to Citi™s investment 
portfolio, partially offset by changes related to Citi™s pension liabilities, results 
in a net position that is more sensitive to rates at shorter and intermediate 
term
 
maturities.
104Changes in Foreign Exchange RatesŠImpacts on OCI and CapitalAs of December 31, 2014, Citi estimates that a simultaneous 5% appreciation 
of the U.S. dollar against all of Citi™s other currencies could reduce Citi™s 
tangible common equity (TCE) by approximately $1.5 billion, or 0.8% of 
TCE, as a result of changes to Citi™s foreign currency translation adjustment 
in AOCI, net of hedges. This impact would be primarily due to changes in the 
value of the Mexican peso, the British pound sterling, the euro, the Chinese 
yuan and the Korean won.Despite this decrease in TCE, Citi believes its business model and management of foreign currency translation exposure work to minimize 
the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on its Common Equity Tier
 1 
Capital ratio. Specifically, as currency movements change the value of Citi™s 

net investments in foreign-currency-denominated capital, these movements 
also change the value of Citi™s risk-weighted assets denominated in those 

currencies. This, coupled with Citi™s foreign currency hedging strategies, such 

as foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and other currency 

hedging instruments, lessens the impact of foreign currency movements on 
Citi™s Common Equity Tier
 1 Capital ratio.The effect of Citi™s business model and management strategies on changes 
in foreign exchange rates are shown in the table below. For additional 

information in the changes in AOCI, see Note 20 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.For the quarter endedIn millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)Dec. 31, 
2014

˜˚˛˝
(4.9)%

$(1,932)˙
(1.1)%˙
ƒ˘



(1)˝

105Interest Revenue/Expense and YieldsAverage Rates-Interest Revenue, Interest Expense, and Net Interest Margin
1Q122Q122012: 2.82%2013: 2.85%2014: 2.90%3Q124Q121Q132Q133Q134Q131Q142Q143Q144Q140.50%1.00%1.50%
2.00%2.50%3.00%3.50%
4.00%4.50%In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Change 2014 vs. 2013

$62,180(2)%13,690(15)$48,4902%œ
3.72%(11)bps
1.02(17)bps
2.90%5bps˝Interest-rate benchmarks˙
˙’


0.46%15bps˝˙
2.5419bps
208bpsNet interest revenue’

Long-term debt
Principal transactions
Discontinued operations


Citi™s net interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing gross interest 
revenue less gross interest expense by average interest earning assets. Citi™s 
NIM improved to 290 basis points in 2014, up from 285 basis points in 2013, 
primarily reflecting lower cost of funds, including continued declines in the 
cost of deposits and long-term debt (see ﬁFunding and Liquidityﬂ above), 
partially offset by continued lower loan yields.Going into 2015, while Citi currently expects its NIM to remain relatively stable to full-year 2014 levels, the continued run-off and sales of assets from 
Citi Holdings could impact NIM quarter-to-quarter.
106Average Balances and Interest RatesŠAssets (1)(2)(3)(4)Taxable Equivalent BasisAverage volume
Interest revenue% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜AssetsDeposits with banks˙(5)$161,359ˆˆ$959ˆˆ0.59%Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or 
 purchased under agreements to resell˙(6)
$153,688ˆˆ$1,034ˆ˛˘˛˝˝ˆ0.67%
101,177˛˜˚˘ˇ˚˚1,332˛˘ˇ˝˝1.32
$254,865ˆˆ$2,366ˆˆ0.93%Trading account assets
˙(7)(8)
$114,910ˆˆ$3,472ˆˆ3.02%
119,8012,5382.12
$234,711ˆˆ$6,010ˆˆ2.56%Investments
†‘†
$193,816ˆˆ$3,286ˆˆ1.70%
15,4806264.04
113,163˛˛ˇ˘˛˜˜3,6273.21
$322,459ˆˆ$7,539ˆˆ2.34%Loans (net of unearned income)˙(9)
$361,769ˆˆ$26,076ˆˆ7.21%
296,65618,7236.31
$658,425ˆˆ$44,799ˆˆ6.80%Other interest-earning assets˙(10)$40,375ˆˆ$507ˆˆ1.26%
$1,672,194ˆˆ$62,180ˆˆ3.72%˙$224,721ˆˆ
Š˝˘ˇ˝˜Total assets
$1,896,915ˆˆ˙Net interest revenue˙˜˚˛˝˘‹
˙
˙‹˙†‹˙†
˙˙
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations

˙
˙™“†
˙™…
˙ˇ˛˙˙˘˙
Interest revenue˙˙
˙
Non-interest-earning assetsOther non-interest-bearing liabilities
˙Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
˙Trading account liabilities
˘‹
˙˙
107Average Balances and Interest RatesŠLiabilities and Equity,  and Net Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)(4)Taxable Equivalent BasisAverage volume
Interest expense
% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜LiabilitiesDeposits
$289,669ˆˆ˜˝˝˘˛˚˚$1,432ˆˆ0.49%
465,1444,2600.92
$754,813ˆˆ$5,692ˆˆ0.75%Federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
 or sold under agreements to repurchase˙(7)
$102,246ˆˆ$656ˆˆ0.64%
87,7771,2391.41
$190,023ˆˆ$1,895ˆˆ1.00%Trading account liabilities
˙(8)(9)
$30,451ˆˆ$75ˆˆ0.25%
45,205930.21
$75,656ˆˆ$168ˆˆ0.22%Short-term borrowings˙(10)
$79,028ˆˆ$161ˆˆ˜˚˝0.20%
39,220419ˇ˜˛1.07
$118,248ˆˆ$580ˆˆ0.49%Long-term debt˙(11)
$194,295ˆˆ$5,093ˆˆ2.62%
7,761262˜˝ˇ3.38
$202,056ˆ˜˚ˇ˘˝˝ˇˆ$5,355ˆˆ2.65%Total interest-bearing liabilities
$1,340,796ˆˆ$13,690ˆˆ1.02%
$26,216ˆˆ
317,351
ŠTotal liabilities
$1,684,363ˆˆCitigroup stockholders™ equity˙(12)$210,863ˆˆ1,689Total equity
˙(12)$212,552ˆˆTotal liabilities and stockholders™ equity
$1,896,915ˆˆNet interest revenue as a percentage of average  interest-earning assets˙(13)
$953,394ˆˆ$27,497ˆˆ2.88%
718,80020,9932.92Total
$1,672,194ˆˆ$48,490ˆˆ2.90%˙Net interest revenue‹
˙
˙‹˙†‹˙†
˙˙
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations

˙
˙˙

˙™“†
˙™…
˙˘˙
Interest expense˙˙
˙
Non-interest-earning assetsOther non-interest-bearing liabilities
˙Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
˙Trading account liabilities
˘‹
˙‹†
˙
Long-term debt˘
Principal transactions˙
˙
108Analysis of Changes in Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)2014 vs. 2013
˙˜˚˛˜
Increase (decrease) due to change in:˙In millions of dollarsAverage
 volumeAverage
 rateNet change™
˙™
˙•†
˙Deposits with banks˙(4)$109$(176)$(67)ˆˆˆFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or 
 purchased under agreements to resell
$(32)$(67)$(99)ˆ˛˝ˆˆ
(106)5(101)
$(138)$(62)$(200)ˆˆˆTrading account assets
˙(5)
$(337)$81$(256)ˆˆˆ
(159)14(145)
$(496)$95$(401)ˆˆˆInvestments˙(1)
$319$69$388ˆˆˆ
(31)(103)(134)
$288$(34)$254ˆ˛˛˚ˆˆLoans (net of unearned income)˙(6)
$512$(377)$135ˆˆˆ
253(1,190)(937)
$765$(1,567)$(802)ˆˆˆOther interest-earning assets˙(7)$32$(127)$(95)ˆˆˆ˜˜Total interest revenue
$560$(1,871)$(1,311)ˆˆˆ˙
˙Ž†
˙˙
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations

˙
˙“†
˙Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenue Interest expense
Trading account assets
˙Trading account liabilities
˘‹
˙˙
109Analysis of Changes in Interest Expense and Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)2014 vs. 2013
˙˜˚˛˜
Increase (decrease) due to change in:˙In millions of dollarsAverage
 volumeAverage
 rateNet change™
˙™
˙•†
˙Deposits
$168$(490)$(322)ˆˆˆ˙
(147)(75)(222)
$21$(565)$(544)ˆˆˆFederal funds purchased and securities loaned 
 or sold under agreements to repurchase
$(144)$123$(21)ˆ˝˝ˆˆ˙
(224)(199)(423)˛˝
$(368)$(76)$(444)ˆˆˆTrading account liabilities 
(5)
$18$(36)$(18)ˆˆˆ˙
(4)2117˜
$14$(15)$(1)ˆˆˆShort-term borrowings (6)
$4$(19)$(15)ˆˆˆ
41(43)(2)
$45$(62)$(17)ˆˆˆLong-term debt
$5$(1,514)$(1,509)ˆˆˆ
(65)9328
$(60)$(1,421)$(1,481)ˆˆˆTotal interest expense
$(348)$(2,139)$(2,487)ˆˆˆNet interest revenue$908$268$1,176ˆˆˆ˙
˙Ž†
˙˙
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations

˙
˙“†
˙Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenue.˙Interest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
˙Trading account liabilities
˘‹
˙‹†
110Price RiskŠTrading PortfoliosPrice risk in Citi™s trading portfolios is monitored using a series of measures, 
including but not limited to:Value at risk (VAR) Stress testing Factor sensitivity Each trading portfolio across Citi™s business segments has its own market 
risk limit framework encompassing these measures and other controls, including trading mandates, permitted product lists and a new product 
approval process for complex products. All trading positions are marked-to-
market, with the results reflected in earnings.The following histogram of total daily trading-related revenue (loss) captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which revenues 
for Citi™s trading businesses fell within particular ranges. As shown in the 

histogram, positive trading-related revenue was achieved for 94% of the 
trading days in 2014.051015
20
253035(100) to (90)(120) to (110)(3)(110) to (100)(10) to (0)(20) to (10)(30) to (20)(40) to (30)(90) to (80)10 to 2020 to 30
30 to 4050 to 6060 to 70
70 to 80
80 to 9090 to 100100 to 110
110 to 120130 to 140140 to 150
150 to 160
160 to 170
170 to 180
180 to 190190 to 200Number of Days(50) to (40)0 to 1040 to 50120 to 130(80) to (70)(70) to (60)
(60) to (50)Histogram of 
Daily Trading-Related Revenue
(1)(2)ŠTwelve Months Ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollars˙™˘˙‚Œ

˙‹˘
Trading related 

revenue˘
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

˙
ICG
111Value at RiskValue at risk (VAR) estimates, at a 99% confidence level, the potential decline 
in the value of a position or a portfolio under normal market conditions 
assuming a one-day holding period. VAR statistics, which are based on 
historical data, can be materially different across firms due to differences in 
portfolio composition, differences in VAR methodologies, and differences in 
model parameters. As a result, Citi believes VAR statistics can be used more 
effectively as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm, rather than as a 
basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms.Citi uses a single, independently approved Monte Carlo simulation VAR 
model (see ﬁVAR Model Review and Validationﬂ below), which has been 

designed to capture material risk sensitivities (such as first- and second-
order sensitivities of positions to changes in market prices) of various asset 
classes/risk types (such as interest rate, credit spread, foreign exchange, 
equity and commodity risks). Citi™s VAR includes positions which are 

measured at fair value; it does not include investment securities classified as 
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. For information on these securities, see 

Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi believes its VAR model is conservatively calibrated to incorporate 
fat-tail scaling and the greater of short-term (approximately the most 
recent month) and long-term (three years) market volatility. The Monte 

Carlo simulation involves approximately 300,000 market factors, making 
use of approximately 180,000 time series, with sensitivities updated daily, 

volatility parameters updated daily to weekly and correlation parameters 
updated monthly. The conservative features of the VAR calibration contribute 

an approximate 21% add-on to what would be a VAR estimated under the 

assumption of stable and perfectly, normally distributed markets.
As set forth in the table below, Citi™s average Trading VAR was relatively 
unchanged from 2013 to 2014. Citi™s average Trading and Credit Portfolio 

VAR increased from 2013 to 2014 due to increased hedging activity associated 

with non-trading positions and increased credit spread volatility of 
benchmark indices resulting from idiosyncratic events.In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
20142014 Average
˝˛˘˙
˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˝˙™

$68N/A—ı™—ı™87N/A—ı™—ı™(36)N/A—ı™—ı™
˙$119$114ˆˆ˛˛ˇ2731˝ˇ17242316˛˝˛˜(56)(73)Œ™Žœ†““˙
˙˙
˙˙˙
$130$112ˆˆ˛˛˝‹˙
˙$10$12ˆˆ˛ˇTotal Trading VARŠ
general market risk 
factors only 
 (excluding credit 
portfolios)˙(2)$120$100ˆ˛˛˚ˆ˙
$18$21ˆˆTotal Trading and 
 Credit Portfolios VAR
$148$133ˆ˛ˇˇˆ˛˜˛˙

ŒŒ˙

‹˘

ŒŒ˙




˙Œ
ICG˙


”Œ˙™
˙

Œ
˙

‹˘™˙

˙‚Œ˙˙



ICG—ı™˙
The table below provides the range of market factor VARs associated 
with Citi™s Total Trading VAR, inclusive of specific risk, that was experienced 

during 2014 and 2013:2014˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsLowHigh
N/AN/A—ı™—ı™N/AN/A—ı™—ı™
$84$158ˆˆ˛ˇ˜2059˜˛14481127˜ˇN/AN/A—ı™—ı™
84163
96188˙


—ı™˙
112The following table provides the VAR for 
ICG during 2014, excluding the CVA relating to derivative counterparties, hedges of CVA, fair value option 
loans and hedges to the loan portfolio.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 2014
TotalŠall market risk 
 factors, including general and specific risk
$122™
$10915982VAR Model Review and Validation
Generally, Citi™s VAR review and model validation process entails reviewing 
the model framework, major assumptions, and implementation of the 
mathematical algorithm. In addition, as part of the model validation 
process, product specific back-testing on portfolios is periodically completed 
and reviewed with Citi™s U.S. banking regulators. Furthermore, Regulatory 
VAR (as described below) back-testing is performed against buy-and-hold 
profit and loss on a monthly basis for approximately 167 portfolios across the 
organization (trading desk level, ICG business segment and Citigroup) and 
the results are shared with the U.S. banking regulators.Significant VAR model and assumption changes must be independently 
validated within Citi™s risk management organization. This validation 

process includes a review by Citi™s model validation group and further 

approval from its model validation review committee, which is composed 
of senior quantitative risk management officers. In the event of significant 
model changes, parallel model runs are undertaken prior to implementation. 
In addition, significant model and assumption changes are subject to the 
periodic reviews and approval by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators.
In the second quarter of 2014, Citi implemented two VAR model 
enhancements that were reviewed by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators as well 

as Citi™s model validation group. Specifically, Citi enhanced the correlation 

among mortgage products as well as introduced industry sectors (financial 
and non-financial) into the credit spread component of the VAR model.
Citi uses the same independently validated VAR model for both Regulatory 
VAR and Risk Management VAR (i.e., Total Trading and Total Trading and 

Credit Portfolios VARs) and, as such, the model review and oversight process 

for both purposes is as described above.Regulatory VAR, which is calculated in accordance with Basel III, differs 
from Risk Management VAR due to the fact that certain positions included 

in Risk Management VAR are not eligible for market risk treatment in 

Regulatory VAR. The composition of Risk Management VAR is discussed 

under ﬁValue at Riskﬂ above. The applicability of the VAR model for positions 

eligible for market risk treatment under U.S. regulatory capital rules is 
periodically reviewed and approved by Citi™s U.S. banking regulators.
In accordance with Basel III, Regulatory VAR includes all trading book 
covered positions and all foreign exchange and commodity exposures. 
Pursuant to Basel III, Regulatory VAR excludes positions that fail to meet 

the intent and ability to trade requirements and are therefore classified as 
non-trading book and categories of exposures that are specifically excluded 
as covered positions. Regulatory VAR excludes CVA on derivative instruments 

and DVA on Citi™s own fair value option liabilities. With the April 2014 

implementation of the U.S. final Basel III rules, CVA hedges are excluded 

from Regulatory VAR and included in credit risk-weighted assets as computed 

under the Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets.113Regulatory VAR Back-testingIn accordance with Basel III, Citi is required to perform back-testing to 
evaluate the effectiveness of its Regulatory VAR model. Regulatory VAR back-
testing is the process in which the daily one-day VAR, at a 99% confidence 
interval, is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (e.g., the profit and 
loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day and re-priced 
the following day). Buy-and-hold profit and loss represents the daily mark-
to-market profit and loss attributable to price movements in covered positions 
from the close of the previous business day. Buy-and-hold profit and loss 
excludes realized trading revenue, net interest, fees and commissions, intra-
day trading profit and loss, and changes in reserves.Based on a 99% confidence level, Citi would expect two to three days in any one year where buy-and-hold losses exceeded the Regulatory VAR. Given 

the conservative calibration of Citi™s VAR model (as a result of taking the 

greater of short- and long-term volatilities and fat-tail scaling of volatilities), 
Citi would expect fewer exceptions under normal and stable market 
conditions. Periods of unstable market conditions could increase the number 
of back-testing exceptions.The following graph shows the daily buy-and-hold profit and loss associated with Citi™s covered positions compared to Citi™s one-day Regulatory 

VAR during 2014. As the graph indicates, for the 12-month period ending 

December 31, 2014, there was one back testing exception where trading 
losses exceeded the VAR estimate at the Citigroup level. This occurred 

on October 15, 2014, a day on which significant market movements 
and volatility impacted various fixed income as well as equities trading 
businesses. The difference between the 56% of days with buy-and-hold gains 
for Regulatory VAR back-testing and the 94% of days with buy-and-hold 

gains shown in the histogram of daily trading related revenue above reflects, 
among other things, that a significant portion of Citi™s trading-related 

revenue is not generated from daily price movements on these positions and 
exposures, as well as differences in the portfolio composition of Regulatory 
VAR and Risk Management VAR.
Regulatory Trading VAR and Associated Buy-and-Hold Profit and Loss
(1) Š Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollars˜˚˛˛˜˝˙˛
˜˝˛˛˜˙˛˛˙˛˝˛˛
˝˙˛Jan-14Feb-14Mar-14Apr-14May-14Jun-14Jul-14Aug-14Sep-14Oct-14Nov-14Dec-14˙‹˙

˙

‹˙
114Stress TestingCiti performs stress testing on a regular basis to estimate the impact of 
extreme market movements. It is performed on individual positions and 
trading portfolios, as well as in aggregate inclusive of multiple trading 
portfolios. Citi™s independent market risk management organization, after 
consultations with the businesses, develops both systemic and specific stress 
scenarios, reviews the output of periodic stress testing exercises, and uses the 
information to assess the ongoing appropriateness of exposure levels and 
limits. Citi uses two complementary approaches to market risk stress testing 
across all major risk factors (i.e., equity, foreign exchange, commodity, 
interest rate and credit spreads): top-down systemic stresses and bottom-
up business specific stresses. Systemic stresses are designed to quantify the 
potential impact of extreme market movements on a firm-wide basis, and are 
constructed using both historical periods of market stress and projections of 
adverse economic scenarios. Business specific stresses are designed to probe 
the risks of particular portfolios and market segments, especially those risks 
that are not fully captured in VAR and systemic stresses.The systemic stress scenarios and business specific stress scenarios at Citi are used in several reports reviewed by senior management and also to 
calculate internal risk capital for trading market risk. In general, changes in 
market factors are defined over a one-year horizon. However, for the purpose 

of calculating internal risk capital, changes in a very limited number of 
the most liquid market factors are defined over a shorter three-month 
horizon. The limited set of market factors subject to the shorter three-month 
time horizon are those that in management™s judgment have historically 

remained very liquid during financial crises, even as the trading liquidity of 
most other market factors materially decreased.Factor Sensitivities
Factor sensitivities are expressed as the change in the value of a position for 
a defined change in a market risk factor, such as a change in the value of a 
Treasury bill for a one-basis-point change in interest rates. Citi™s independent 
market risk management ensures that factor sensitivities are calculated, 
monitored, and in most cases, limited, for all material risks taken in a 
trading portfolio.115OPERATIONAL RISKOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, systems or human factors, or from external events. It includes the 
reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices or market 
conduct in which Citi is involved. Operational risk is inherent in Citigroup™s 
global business activities, as well as the internal processes that support those 
business activities, and can result in losses arising from events related to the 
following, among others:







Operational Risk ManagementCiti™s operational risk is managed through the overall framework described in ﬁManaging Global RiskŠOverviewﬂ above.The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels relative to the characteristics of Citigroup™s businesses, the markets in which it operates, 

its capital and liquidity, and the competitive, economic and regulatory 

environment.To anticipate, mitigate and control operational risk, Citigroup 
maintains a system of policies and has established a consistent framework 
for monitoring, assessing and communicating operational risks and the 
overall operating effectiveness of the internal control environment across 
Citigroup. As part of this framework, Citi has established a Manager™s Control 

Assessment process (as described under ﬁCiti™s Compliance Organizationﬂ 

above) to help managers self-assess key operational risks and controls and 
identify and address weaknesses in the design and/or operating effectiveness 
of internal controls that mitigate significant operational risks.As noted above, each major business segment must implement an operational risk process consistent with the requirements of this framework. 
The process for operational risk management includes the following steps:









operational risk environment and mitigate emerging risks.As new products and business activities are developed, processes are designed, modified or sourced through alternative means and operational risks are considered.An Operational Risk Council provides oversight for operational risk across Citigroup. The council™s members include senior members of Citi™s Franchise 

Risk and Strategy group and Citi™s Chief Risk Officer™s organization covering 

multiple dimensions of risk management, with representatives of the 
Business and Regional Chief Risk Officers™ organizations. The council™s focus 

is on identification and mitigation of operational risk and related incidents. 
The council works with the business segments and the control functions 
(e.g., Compliance, Finance, Risk and Legal) with the objective of ensuring 
a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing 
operational risk globally.
In addition, Operational Risk Management, within Citi™s Franchise 
Risk and Strategy group, proactively assists the businesses, operations and 
technology and the other independent control groups in enhancing the 
effectiveness of controls and managing operational risks across products, 
business lines and regions.Operational Risk Measurement and Stress TestingAs noted above, information about the businesses™ operational risk, historical 
operational risk losses and the control environment is reported by each major 
business segment and functional area. The information is summarized and 
reported to senior management, as well as to the Audit Committee of Citi™s 
Board of Directors.Operational risk is measured and assessed through risk capital (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠRisk Capitalﬂ above). Projected operational risk 
losses under stress scenarios are also required as part of the Federal Reserve 
Board™s CCAR process.
116COUNTRY AND CROSS-BORDER RISKOVERVIEWGenerally, country risk is the risk that an event in a country (precipitated by developments internal or external to a country) could directly or indirectly 
impair the value of Citi™s franchise or adversely affect the ability of obligors 
within that country to honor their obligations to Citi, any of which could 
negatively impact Citi™s results of operations or financial condition. Country 
risk events could include sovereign volatility or defaults, banking failures or 
defaults and/or redenomination events (which could be accompanied by a 
revaluation (either devaluation or appreciation) of the affected currency). 
While there is some overlap, cross-border risk is generally the risk that 
actions taken by a non-U.S. government may prevent the conversion of 
local currency into non-local currency (i.e., exchange controls) and/or the 
transfer of funds outside the country, among other risks, thereby impacting 
the ability of Citigroup and its customers to transact business across borders.Certain of the events described above could result in mandatory loan loss and other reserve requirements imposed by U.S. regulators due to a particular 
country™s economic situation. While Citi continues to work to mitigate its 

exposures to potential country and cross-border risk events, the impact of any 
such event is highly uncertain and will ultimately be based on the specific 
facts and circumstances. As a result, there can be no assurance that the 
various steps Citi has taken to mitigate its exposures and risks and/or protect 
its businesses, results of operations and financial condition against these 
events will be sufficient. In addition, there could be negative impacts to Citi™s 

businesses, results of operations or financial condition that are currently 
unknown to Citi and thus cannot be mitigated as part of its ongoing 
contingency planning.For additional information on country and cross-border risk at Citi, including its risk management processes, see ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ above. 
See also ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.COUNTRY RISKEmerging Markets Exposures
Citi generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), central and eastern Europe, 
the Middle East and Africa.The following table presents Citicorp™s principal emerging markets assets 
as of December 31, 2014. For purposes of the table below, loan amounts 

are generally based on the domicile of the borrower. For example, a loan 

to a Chinese subsidiary of a Switzerland-based corporation will generally 
be categorized as a loan in China. Trading account assets and investment 

securities are generally categorized below based on the domicile of the issuer 
of the security or the underlying reference entity.
117As of December 31, 2014
As of Sept. 30, 
2014As of  Dec. 31, 
2013GCB NCL RateIn billions of dollarsTrading 
 Account  Assets(1)Investment Securities(2)ICG Loans(3)(4)GCB Loans(3)Aggregate(5)™……
™……
4Q™14˝¢Š˛ˇˇ¢Š˛˝$2.8$20.3$9.0$28.0$60.0ˆˆ5.7%(0.9)9.93.223.535.70.8
0.45.98.014.428.80.21.34.210.210.726.30.53.83.415.13.926.26.82.27.79.76.125.60.92.53.511.24.922.00.9
1.40.94.47.213.90.21.14.51.52.910.0(1.7)‰†“†
0.80.61.65.58.50.70.30.54.61.26.52.80.20.84.11.36.53.3‹˙
0.41.82.80.85.7(0.1)Š0.42.52.04.93.40.31.21.12.14.62.8(0.1)Š3.01.54.41.9
0.60.72.0Š3.3Šœœ0.40.41.31.03.13.80.10.31.51.13.01.0(0.1)0.21.70.52.23.6˙™……
˙
˙˘
˙
ICG


˙˝˛˘
˙˝˚˘

˙˙˝˛˘˙˜˚˛ˇ˘
ICG
˙˝˛˘


˙˝˛˘
˙˝˚˘˙˜˚˛˝˘˙



˙˜˚˛˝˘
˙™……
Trading account assets
˘˙Investment securities˘˙ICGGCB˙ˇ¢Š˛ˇ˙—”ž˙•†
˙
˙
118Emerging Markets Trading Account Assets and Investment SecuritiesIn the ordinary course of business, Citi holds securities in its trading accounts 
and investment accounts, including those above. Trading account assets are 
marked-to-market daily, with asset levels varying as Citi maintains inventory 
consistent with customer needs. Investment securities are recorded at either 
fair value or historical cost, based on the underlying accounting treatment, 
and are predominantly held as part of the local entity asset and liability 
management program, or to comply with local regulatory requirements. 
In the markets in the table above, 96% of Citi™s investment securities were 
related to sovereign issuers as of December 31, 2014.Emerging Markets Consumer LendingGCB™s strategy within the emerging markets is consistent with GCB™s overall strategy, which is to leverage its global footprint to serve its target clients. 
The retail bank seeks to be the preeminent bank for the emerging affluent 
and affluent consumers in large urban centers. In credit cards and in certain 
retail markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments 
and geographies. Commercial banking generally serves small- and middle-
market enterprises operating in GCB™s geographic markets, focused on clients 
that value Citi™s global capabilities. Overall, Citi believes that its customers 
are more resilient than the overall market under a wide range of economic 
conditions. Citi™s consumer business has a well-established risk appetite 
framework across geographies and products that reflects the business strategy 
and activities and establishes boundaries around the key risks that arise from 
the strategy and activities.As of December 31, 2014, GCB had approximately $123 billion of consumer loans outstanding to borrowers in the emerging markets, or 
approximately 41% of GCB™s total loans, compared to $128 billion (43%) 

and $127 billion (42%) as of September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013, 
respectively. Of the approximate $123 billion as of December
 31, 2014, the 
five largest emerging marketsŠMexico, Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong and 
TaiwanŠcomprised approximately 28% of 
GCB™s total loans.
Within the emerging markets, 29% of Citi™s 
GCB loans were mortgages, 26% were commercial markets loans, 24% were personal loans and 22% were 
credit cards loans, each as of December 31, 2014.Overall consumer credit quality remained generally stable in the fourth quarter of 2014, as net credit losses in the emerging markets were 2.2% 
of average loans, compared to 2.1% and 1.9% in the third quarter of 2014 
and fourth quarter of 2013, respectively, consistent with Citi™s target market 

strategy and risk appetite framework.Emerging Markets Corporate Lending
Consistent with ICG™s overall strategy, Citi™s corporate clients in the emerging 
markets are typically large, multinational corporations that value Citi™s 
global network. Citi aims to establish relationships with these clients that 
encompass multiple products, consistent with client needs, including 
cash management and trade services, foreign exchange, lending, capital 
markets and M&A advisory. Citi believes that its target corporate segment 
is more resilient under a wide range of economic conditions, and that 
its relationship-based approach to client service enables it to effectively 
manage the risks inherent in such relationships. Citi has a well-established 
risk appetite framework around its corporate lending activities, including 
risk-based limits and approval authorities and portfolio concentration 
boundaries.As of December 31, 2014, ICG had approximately $118 billion of loans outstanding to borrowers in the emerging markets, representing 
approximately 43% of ICG total loans outstanding, compared to 
$125 billion (45%) and $126 billion (47%) as of September 30, 2014 
and December 31, 2013, respectively. No single emerging market country 

accounted for more than 6% of Citi™s 
ICG loans as of the end of the fourth 
quarter of 2014.As of December 31, 2014, approximately 70% of Citi™s emerging markets 
corporate credit portfolio (excluding private bank in ICG), including loans and unfunded lending commitments, was rated investment grade, which 
Citi considers to be ratings of BBB or better according to its internal risk 
measurement system and methodology (for additional information on 
Citi™s internal risk measurement system for corporate credit, see ﬁCorporate 

Credit Detailsﬂ above). The vast majority of the remainder was rated BB or B 
according to Citi™s internal risk measurement system and methodology.
Overall ICG net credit losses in the emerging markets were 0.4% of average loans in the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to 0.0% in each of the third 
quarter of 2014 and fourth quarter of 2013, primarily driven by a charge-off 
related to a single exposure. The ratio of non-accrual ICG loans to total loans in the emerging markets remained stable at 0.6% as of December 31, 2014.119CROSS-BORDER RISKFFIECŠCross Border OutstandingsCiti™s cross-border disclosures are based on the country exposure bank 
regulatory reporting guidelines of the Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC), as revised in December 2013. The following 
summarizes some of the FFIEC key reporting guidelines:
collateral, issuer or guarantor, as applicable. 
financing transactions (i.e., repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities loaned and borrowed) and are reported based 
on notional amounts. 
permitted, but only under a legally binding netting agreement with the 
same specific counterparty, and does not include the benefit of margin 
received or hedges.
portfolios is not permitted. 
amount sold and purchased and do not include any offsetting CDS on the 
same underlying entity. 
Given the requirements noted above, Citi™s FFIEC cross-border exposures 
and total outstandings tend to fluctuate, in some cases, significantly, from 

period to period. As an example, because total outstandings under FFIEC 
guidelines do not include the benefit of margin or hedges, market volatility 
in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads may cause 
significant fluctuations in the level of total outstandings, all else being equal.120The tables below set forth each country whose total outstandings exceeded 0.75% of total Citigroup assets as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:December 31, 2014
Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties and Local Country Assets
In billions of U.S. dollars
BanksPublicNBFIs (1)Other  (Corporate and Households)Trading
 Assets (2)Short Term 
Claims (2)Total 
Outstanding (3)Commitments and Guarantees (4)Credit Derivatives 
Purchased (5)Credit Derivatives
 Sold (5)$23.9$18.0$47.0$27.7$12.8$62.4$116.6$19.0$104.0$105.57.929.76.537.38.941.481.44.66.86.4§†
12.832.09.64.67.042.359.04.322.621.7”†
0.1Š47.53.32.035.850.92.1ŠŠ23.23.516.26.17.029.749.012.587.088.01.118.51.027.52.239.348.114.611.49.3‹
12.417.33.16.16.616.138.910.780.081.08.910.52.213.75.224.535.31.611.512.05.811.42.715.15.923.235.04.21.81.58.05.33.617.06.612.533.910.712.111.7
2.57.96.417.00.620.233.81.81.41.35.111.51.114.74.620.532.45.711.910.28.77.68.47.22.311.331.97.030.430.61.18.02.615.23.415.926.92.42.61.96.64.56.07.34.711.124.47.66.77.15.013.70.74.00.416.223.44.625.926.4
1.96.91.19.81.713.319.713.30.1Š‹
2.012.10.80.94.65.915.83.571.368.34.60.48.01.81.38.914.82.94.34.2December 31, 2013
Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties and Local Country Assets
In billions of U.S. dollars
BanksPublicNBFIs (1)Other  (Corporate and Households)Trading
 Assets (2)Short Term 
Claims (2)Total 
Outstanding (3)Commitments and Guarantees (4)Credit Derivatives 
Purchased (5)Credit Derivatives
 Sold (5)ˆˆˆˆˆˆˆˆˆˆ§†
”†
œœ‹


‹
˙˙˙‹˙

˙˙
‹
˙121ArgentinaSince 2011, the Argentine government has been tightening its foreign 
exchange controls. As a result, Citi™s access to U.S. dollars and other foreign 
currencies, which apply to capital repatriation efforts, certain operating 
expenses and discretionary investments offshore, is limited.As of December 31, 2014, Citi™s net investment in its Argentine operations 
was approximately $780 million, compared to $720 million at each of 
September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013. During 2014, Citi Argentina 
paid dividends to Citi of approximately $60 million.Citi uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency in Argentina and translates its financial statements into U.S. dollars using the official 
exchange rate as published by the Central Bank of Argentina. According to 
the official exchange rate, the Argentine peso devalued to 8.55 pesos to one 
U.S. dollar at December 31, 2014 compared to 8.43 pesos to one U.S. dollar 
at September 30, 2014 and 6.52 to one U.S. dollar at December 31, 2013. It 
is expected that the devaluation of the Argentine peso will continue for the 
foreseeable future.The impact of devaluations of the Argentine peso on Citi™s net investment 
in Argentina is reported as a translation loss in stockholders™ equity offset, to 
the extent hedged, by:
that have been designated as, and qualify for, hedge accounting under ASC 815 Derivatives and Hedging; and
monetary assets or currency futures held in Argentina that do not qualify 
as net investment hedges under ASC 815.At December 31, 2014, Citi had cumulative translation losses related to its investment in Argentina, net of qualifying net investment hedges, of approximately $1.51 billion (pretax), which were recorded in stockholders™ 
equity. This compared to $1.46 billion (pretax) as of September 30, 2014 and 

$1.30 billion (pretax) as of December 31, 2013. The cumulative translation 
losses would not be reclassified into earnings unless realized upon sale or 
liquidation of substantially all of Citi™s Argentine operations. 
As noted above, Citi hedges currency risk in its net investment in Argentina to the extent possible and prudent. Suitable hedging alternatives 
have become less available and more expensive and may not be available in 
the future to offset future currency devaluation. As of December 31, 2014, 
Citi™s total hedges against its net investment in Argentina were approximately 

$810 million (compared to $920 million as of September 30, 2014 and $940 
million as of December 31, 2013). Of this amount, approximately $420 
million consisted of foreign currency forwards that were recorded as net 
investment hedges under ASC 815 (compared to approximately $430 million 
as of September 30, 2014 and $160 million as of December 31, 2013). The 
remaining hedges of approximately $390 million as of December 31, 2014 
(compared to $490 million as of September 30, 2014 and $780 million as 
of December 31, 2013) were net U.S. dollar-denominated assets and foreign 

currency futures in Citi Argentina that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
under ASC 815. The increase in ASC 815 designated foreign currency 
forwards, which are held outside Argentina and generally more expensive for Citi, and the decline in the non-ASC 815 qualifying hedges held in Citi 
Argentina, were due to increased foreign currency limitations imposed by 
the Argentine government during 2014 that have limited Citi™s ability to hold 

U.S. dollar hedges in Argentina.Although Citi currently uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency for its operations in Argentina, an increase in inflation resulting 
in a cumulative three-year inflation rate of 100% or more would result in a 
change in the functional currency to the U.S. dollar. Citi bases its evaluation 

of the cumulative three-year inflation rate on the official inflation statistics 
published by INDEC, the Argentine government™s statistics agency. The 

cumulative three-year inflation rate as of December 31, 2014, based on 
statistics published by INDEC, was approximately 52% (compared to 50% 
as of September 30, 2014). The official inflation statistics are believed 
to be underestimated, however, and unofficial inflation statistics suggest 

the cumulative three-year inflation rate was approximately 123% as of 
December 31, 2014 (compared to approximately 119% as of September 30, 
2014). While a change in the functional currency to the U.S. dollar would 
not result in any immediate gains or losses to Citi, it would result in future 
devaluations of the Argentine peso being recorded in earnings for Citi™s 

Argentine peso-denominated assets and liabilities.As of December 31, 2014, Citi had total third-party assets of approximately $4.1 billion in Citi Argentina (compared to approximately $3.8 billion at 
September 30, 2014 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2013), primarily 
composed of corporate and consumer loans and cash on deposit with and 
short-term paper issued by the Central Bank of Argentina. A significant 
portion of these assets was funded with local deposits. Included in the total 
assets were U.S. dollar-denominated assets of approximately $550 million, 

compared to approximately $520 million at September 30, 2014 and 
$920 million at December 31, 2013. (For additional information on Citi™s 

exposures related to Argentina, see ﬁEmerging Market Exposuresﬂ above, 
which sets forth Citi™s trading account assets, investment securities, 
ICG loans and GCB loans in Argentina, based on the methodology described in 
such section. As described in such section, these assets totaled approximately 
$3.0 billion as of December 31, 2014. Approximately $190 million of such 
exposure is held by non-Argentine Citi subsidiaries and thus is not included 
in the $4.1 billion amount set forth above, which pertains only to Citi 
Argentina, as disclosed.)As widely reported, Argentina is currently engaged in litigation in the U.S. with certain ﬁholdoutﬂ bond investors who did not accept restructured 
bonds in the restructuring of Argentine debt after Argentina defaulted on 
its sovereign obligations in 2001. Based on U.S. court rulings to date, 
Argentina has been ordered to negotiate a settlement with ﬁholdoutﬂ bond 
investors and, absent a negotiated settlement, not pay interest on certain of 
its restructured bonds unless it simultaneously pays all amounts owed to the 
ﬁholdoutﬂ investors that are the subject of the litigation. During the third 
quarter of 2014, Argentina™s June 30, 2014 interest payment on certain of the 

restructured bonds was not paid by the trustee as such payment would have 
violated U.S. court orders and, as a result, Argentina has been deemed to be 
in technical default.122The ongoing economic and political situation in Argentina could negatively impact Citi™s results of operations, including revenues in its foreign 
exchange business and/or potentially increase its funding costs. It could 
also lead to further governmental intervention or regulatory restrictions 
on foreign investments in Argentina, including further devaluation of the 
Argentine peso, further limits to foreign currency holdings or hedging 
activities, or the potential redenomination of certain U.S. dollar assets and 
liabilities into Argentine pesos, which could be accompanied by a devaluation 
of the Argentine peso. In addition, in January 2015, U.S. regulators informed 
Citi of its decision to downgrade Argentina™s transfer risk rating, which will 

result in mandatory transfer risk reserve requirements to be recognized in the 
first quarter of 2015.Further, as widely reported, Citi acts as a custodian in Argentina for 
certain of the restructured bonds that are part of the ﬁholdoutﬂ bond 
litigation; specifically, U.S. dollar denominated restructured bonds governed 

by Argentina law and payable in Argentina. During the third quarter of 2014, 
the U.S. court overseeing the Argentina litigation ruled that Citi Argentina™s 

payment of interest on these bonds, as custodian, was covered by the court™s 

order and thus could not be made without violating the order prohibiting the 
payments. While the court has granted a stay and permitted Citi Argentina 
to make the required 2014 interest payments, future interest payments on 
these bonds could place Citi Argentina in violation of the court™s order, absent 

relief from the court. Conversely, Citi Argentina™s failure to pay future interest 

on these bonds could result in significant negative consequences to Citi™s 

franchise in Argentina, including sanctions, confiscation of assets, criminal 
charges, or even loss of licenses in Argentina, as well as expose Citi and Citi 
Argentina to litigation. The next interest payment on the bonds for which Citi 
Argentina serves as custodian is due March 31, 2015.Venezuela
Since 2003, the Venezuelan government has implemented and operated 
restrictive foreign exchange controls. These exchange controls have limited 
Citi™s ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela; Citi has not been able to 
acquire U.S. dollars from the Venezuelan government since 2008.As of December 31, 2014, the Venezuelan government operates three 
separate official foreign exchange rates:
Foreign Trade (CENCOEX), fixed at 6.3 bolivars to one U.S. dollar; 

bolivars to one U.S. dollar. On February 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government published changes 
to its foreign exchange controls, which continue to maintain a three-tiered system. The new exchange controls maintain the CENCOEX rate at 6.3 
bolivars per U.S. dollar; however, the new exchange controls merge SICAD II 

into SICAD I, which will be referred to as ﬁSICAD.ﬂ The SICAD auctions will 
begin at 12 bolivars per U.S. dollar and are expected to devalue progressively 
in the future. In addition, the new exchange controls establish the Marginal 
Foreign Exchange System (SIMADI), which is intended to be a free floating 
exchange. The SIMADI exchange limits the volume of foreign currency that 
companies can purchase each month, and banks and brokers, which include 
Citi, are prohibited from accessing this market for their own needs.Citi uses the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for its operations in Venezuela. As of December 31, 2014, Citi uses the SICAD I rate to remeasure 

its net bolivar-denominated monetary assets as the SICAD I rate is the only 

rate at which Citi is legally eligible to acquire U.S. dollars from CENCOEX, 
despite the limited availability of U.S. dollars and although the SICAD I 
rate may not necessarily be reflective of economic reality. Re-measurement 

of Citi™s bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities due to changes in the 

exchange rate is recorded in earnings. Further devaluation in the SICAD I 
exchange rate, a change by Citi to a less favorable rate or other changes to 
the foreign exchange mechanisms would result in foreign exchange losses in 
the period in which such devaluation or changes occur.
At December 31, 2014, Citi™s net investment in its Venezuelan operations 
was approximately $180 million (unchanged from September 30, 2014 
and compared to $240 million at December 31, 2013), which included 
net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivars of approximately 

$140 million (compared to approximately $130 million at September 30, 
2014 and $220 million at December 31, 2013). Total third-party assets of 

Citi Venezuela were approximately $900 million at December 31, 2014 

(unchanged from September 30, 2014 and a decrease from $1.2 billion as of 
December 31, 2013), primarily composed of cash on deposit with the Central 
Bank of Venezuela, corporate and consumer loans, and government bonds. A 

significant portion of these assets was funded with local deposits.123RussiaRussia™s engagement in recent events in Ukraine has continued to be a 
cause of concern to investors in Russian assets and parties doing business 
in Russia or with Russian entities, including as a result of the potential risk 
of wider repercussions on the Russian economy and trade and investment 
as well as the imposition of additional sanctions, such as asset freezes, 
involving Russia or against Russian entities, business sectors, individuals 
or otherwise. The Russian ruble has depreciated 43% against the U.S. dollar 
from September 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014, and over the same period, 
the MICEX Index of leading Russian stocks decreased 1% in ruble terms.Citi operates in Russia through a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A., which uses the Russian ruble as its functional currency. Citi™s net investment in Russia 

was approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2014, compared to $1.6 
billion at September 30, 2014. Substantially all of Citi™s net investment was 

hedged (subject to related tax adjustments) as of December 31, 2014, using 
forward foreign exchange contracts. Total third-party assets of the Russian 

Citibank subsidiary were approximately $6.1 billion as of December 31, 
2014, compared to $7.4 billion at September 30, 2014. These assets were 
primarily composed of corporate and consumer loans, local government debt 
securities, and cash on deposit with the Central Bank of Russia. A significant 
majority of these third-party assets were funded with local deposit liabilities.For additional information on Citi™s exposures related to Russia, see 
ﬁEmerging Market Exposuresﬂ above, which sets forth Citi™s trading account 

assets, investment securities, ICG loans and GCB loans in Russia, based on 
the methodology described in such section. As disclosed in such section, 
these assets totaled approximately $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2014. 
Approximately $2.7 billion of such exposure is held on non-Russian Citi 
subsidiaries and thus is not included in the $6.1 billion amount set forth 
above, which pertains only to the Russian Citibank subsidiary, as disclosed.
Greece
As of December 31, 2014, Citi had total third-party assets and liabilities of 
approximately $36 million and $915 million, respectively, in Citi™s Greek 
branch. Included in the total third-party assets and liabilities as of such 
date were non-euro denominated assets and liabilities of $0.3 million and 
$174 million, respectively.Greece elected a new government in January 2015. As a result of the impact of austerity measures on Greece, the newly elected government has 
committed to renegotiating the country™s debt with the European Union and 

the International Monetary Fund. If these negotiations are unsuccessful, it 
could lead to Greece™s defaulting on its debt obligations and possibly even to 

a withdrawal of Greece from the European Monetary Union (EMU).If Greece were to leave the EMU, certain of its obligations could be redenominated from the euro to a new country currency (e.g., drachma). 
While alternative scenarios could develop, redenomination could be 
accompanied by an immediate devaluation of the new currency as compared 
to the euro and the U.S. dollar.
Citi is exposed to potential redenomination and devaluation risks arising from (i) euro-denominated assets and/or liabilities located or held within 
Greece that are governed by local country law (local exposures), as well 
as (ii) other euro-denominated assets and liabilities, such as loans and 
securitized products, between entities outside of Greece and a client within 
Greece that are governed by local country law (offshore exposures).If Greece were to withdraw from the EMU, and assuming a symmetrical redenomination and devaluation occurred, Citi believes its risk of loss would 
be limited as its liabilities subject to redenomination exceeded assets held 
both locally and offshore as of December 31, 2014. However, the actual assets 

and liabilities that could be subject to redenomination and devaluation 
risk, as well as whether any redenomination is asymmetrical, are subject 
to substantial legal and other uncertainty. In addition, other events outside 

of Citi™s controlŠsuch as the extent of any deposit flight and devaluation, 

imposition by U.S. regulators of mandatory loan reserve requirements or 
any functional currency change and the accounting impact thereofŠcould 
further negatively impact Citi in such an event.124SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of Citigroup™s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently 
issued accounting pronouncements. These policies, as well as estimates made 
by management, are integral to the presentation of Citi™s results of operations 
and financial condition. While all of these policies require a certain level of 
management judgment and estimates, this section highlights and discusses 
the significant accounting policies that require management to make highly 
difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates at times regarding 
matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change (see also 
ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above). Management has 
discussed each of these significant accounting policies, the related estimates, 
and its judgments with the Audit Committee of the Citigroup Board of 
Directors. Additional information about these policies can be found in Note 1 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Valuations of Financial InstrumentsCitigroup holds debt and equity securities, derivatives, retained interests 
in securitizations, investments in private equity and other financial 
instruments. Substantially all of these assets and liabilities are reflected at 
fair value on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Citi purchases securities under agreements to resell (reverse repos) and sells securities under agreements to repurchase (repos), a majority of which 
are carried at fair value. In addition, certain loans, short-term borrowings, 
long-term debt and deposits, as well as certain securities borrowed and 
loaned positions that are collateralized with cash, are carried at fair value. 
Citigroup holds its investments, trading assets and liabilities, and resale 
and repurchase agreements on the Consolidated Balance Sheet to meet 
customer needs and to manage liquidity needs, interest rate risks and private 
equity investing.When available, Citi generally uses quoted market prices to determine fair value and classifies such items within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy 
established under ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurement
. If quoted market 
prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed 
valuation models that use, where possible, current market-based or 
independently sourced market parameters, such as interest rates, currency 
rates and option volatilities. Such models are often based on a discounted 
cash flow analysis. In addition, items valued using such internally generated 
valuation techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or 
value driver that is significant to the valuation. Thus, an item may be 
classified under the fair value hierarchy as Level 3 even though there may be 
some significant inputs that are readily observable.The credit crisis caused some markets to become illiquid, thus reducing the availability of certain observable data used by Citi™s valuation techniques. 

This illiquidity, in at least certain markets, continued through 2014. When 

or if liquidity returns to these markets, the valuations will revert to using the 
related observable inputs in verifying internally calculated values.Citi is required to exercise subjective judgments relating to the applicability and functionality of internal valuation models, the significance 
of inputs or value drivers to the valuation of an instrument, and the degree 
of illiquidity and subsequent lack of observability in certain markets. These judgments have the potential to impact the Company™s financial 

performance for instruments where the changes in fair value are recognized 
in either the Consolidated Statement of Income or in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI).Moreover, for certain investments, decreases in fair value are only 
recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Income if such 
decreases are judged to be an other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI). 

Adjudicating the temporary nature of fair value impairments is also 
inherently judgmental.The fair value of financial instruments incorporates the effects of Citi™s own credit risk and the market view of counterparty credit risk, the 

quantification of which is also complex and judgmental. For additional 
information on Citi™s fair value analysis, see Notes 1, 6, 25 and 26 to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements.Allowance for Credit LossesManagement provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent in 
the funded loan portfolio and in unfunded loan commitments and standby 
letters of credit on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the Allowance for loan losses and in Other liabilities, respectively.Estimates of these probable losses are based upon (i) Citigroup™s internal 
system of credit-risk ratings, which are analogous to the risk ratings of 
the major credit rating agencies; and (ii) historical default and loss data, 
including rating agency information regarding default rates from 1983 
to 2013, and internal data dating to the early 1970s on severity of losses 
in the event of default. Adjustments may be made to this data, including 
(i) statistically calculated estimates to cover the historical fluctuation 
of the default rates over the credit cycle, the historical variability of loss 
severity among defaulted loans, and the degree to which there are large 
obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; and (ii) adjustments made 
for specifically known items, such as current environmental factors and 
credit trends.In addition, representatives from both the risk management and finance staffs who cover business areas with delinquency-managed portfolios 
containing smaller homogeneous loans present their recommended reserve 
balances based upon leading credit indicators, including loan delinquencies 
and changes in portfolio size, as well as economic trends, including housing 
prices, unemployment and GDP. This methodology is applied separately 

for each individual product within each geographic region in which these 
portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on Citi™s credit costs 

and the allowance in any period.For a further description of the loan loss reserve and related accounts, see Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.125GoodwillCiti tests goodwill for impairment annually on July 1 and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-
than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount, 
such as a significant adverse change in the business climate, a decision 
to sell or dispose of all or a significant portion of a reporting unit, or a 
significant decline in Citi™s stock price. No goodwill impairment was recorded 
during 2014, 2013 and 2012.As of December 31, 2014, Citigroup consists of the following business segments: Global Consumer Banking, Institutional Clients Group, 
Corporate/Other and Citi Holdings. Goodwill impairment testing is 
performed at the level below the business segment (referred to as a reporting 
unit). Goodwill is allocated to Citi™s eight reporting units at the date the 

goodwill is initially recorded. Once goodwill has been allocated to the 
reporting units, it generally no longer retains its identification with a 
particular acquisition, but instead becomes identified with the reporting unit 
as a whole. As a result, all of the fair value of each reporting unit is available 
to support the allocated goodwill.The carrying value used in the impairment test for each reporting unit is derived by allocating Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity to each component 

(defined below) of the Company based on regulatory capital and tangible 
common equity assessed for each component. The assigned carrying value of 
the eight reporting units and Corporate/Other (together the ﬁcomponentsﬂ) 
is equal to Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity. Regulatory capital is derived 

using each component™s Basel III risk-weighted assets. Specifically identified 

Basel III capital deductions are then added to the components™ regulatory 
capital to assign Citigroup™s total Tangible Common Equity. In allocating 

Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity to each component, the reported 

goodwill and intangibles associated with each reporting unit are specifically 
included in the carrying amount of the respective reporting units and the 
remaining stockholders™ equity is then allocated to each component based on 
the relative tangible common equity associated with each component.Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be 
supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit using widely 
accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings 
multiples and/or transaction multiples) and/or the income approach 
(discounted cash flow (DCF) method). In applying these methodologies, 
Citi utilizes a number of factors, including actual operating results, future 
business plans, economic projections, and market data. Citi prepares 
a formal three-year plan for its businesses on an annual basis. These 
projections incorporate certain external economic projections developed at 
the point in time the plan is developed. For the purpose of performing any 
impairment test, the most recent three-year forecast available is updated by 
Citi to reflect current economic conditions as of the testing date. Citi used the updated long-range financial forecasts as a basis for its annual goodwill 
impairment test. Management may engage an independent valuation 
specialist to assist in Citi™s valuation process.
Citigroup engaged an independent valuation specialist in 2013 and 2014 to assist in Citi™s valuation for most of the reporting units employing both the 

market approach and DCF method. Citi believes that the DCF method, using 
management projections for the selected reporting units and an appropriate 
risk-adjusted discount rate, is most reflective of a market participant™s view 

of fair values given current market conditions. For the reporting units where 
both methods were utilized in 2013 and 2014, the resulting fair values were 
relatively consistent and appropriate weighting was given to outputs from 
both methods.The DCF method used at the time of each impairment test used discount rates that Citi believes adequately reflected the risk and uncertainty in the 
financial markets generally and specifically in the internally generated cash 
flow projections. The DCF method employs a capital asset pricing model in 
estimating the discount rate. Citi continues to value the remaining reporting 
units where it believes the risk of impairment to be low, using primarily the 

market approach.Since none of the Company™s reporting units are publicly traded, 
individual reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly 
correlated to Citigroup™s common stock price. The sum of the fair values of 

the reporting units at July 1, 2014 exceeded the overall market capitalization 
of Citi as of July 1, 2014. However, Citi believes that it is not meaningful to 

reconcile the sum of the fair values of the Company™s reporting units to its 

market capitalization due to several factors. The market capitalization of 
Citigroup reflects the execution risk in a transaction involving Citigroup due 
to its size. However, the individual reporting units™ fair values are not subject 

to the same level of execution risk or a business model that is perceived to be 
as complex.See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on goodwill, including the changes in the goodwill 
balance year-over-year and the reporting unit goodwill balances as of 

December 31, 2014.During the fourth quarter of 2014, Citi announced its intention to exit its consumer businesses in 11 markets in Latin America, Asia and EMEA, 
as well as its consumer finance business in Korea. Citi also announced its 
intention to exit several non-core transactions businesses within ICG. These businesses were transferred to Citi Holdings effective January 1, 2015. 
Goodwill balances associated with the transfers were allocated to each of 
the component businesses based on their relative fair values to the legacy 
reporting units.As required by ASC 350, a goodwill impairment test is being performed as of January 1, 2015 under the legacy and new reporting structures, which may 
result in an impairment for one or more of the new reporting units. Such 
impairment, if any, is not expected to be significant.
126Income TaxesOverviewCiti is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and local 
municipalities and the foreign jurisdictions in which Citi operates. These 
tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the 
taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. Disputes over 
interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by 
the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the 
taxing authority upon audit.In establishing a provision for income tax expense, Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently 
complex tax laws. Citi must also make estimates about when in the future 
certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both 
domestic and foreign. Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences 
of events that have been recognized in the financial statements or tax 
returns, based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) 

are recognized subject to management™s judgment that realization is more-

likely-than-not.DTAsAt December 31, 2014, Citi had recorded net DTAs of $49.5 billion, a 
decrease of $3.3 billion (including approximately $400 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2014) from $52.8 billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease 
in total DTAs year-over-year was primarily due to the earnings in Citicorp. 
Foreign tax credits (FTCs) composed approximately $17.6 billion of Citi™s 
DTAs as of December 31, 2014, compared to approximately $19.6 billion 
as of December 31, 2013. The decrease in FTCs year-over-year was due 
to the generation of U.S. taxable income and represented $2.0 billion 
of the $3.3 billion decrease in Citi™s overall DTAs noted above. The FTCs 
carry-forward periods represent the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s 
DTAs. Accordingly, in 2015, Citi will continue to prioritize reducing the FTC 
carry-forward component of the DTAs. Secondarily, Citi™s actions will focus 
on reducing other DTA components and, thereby, reduce the total DTAs.While Citi™s net total DTAs decreased year-over-year, the time remaining for 
utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect 
to the FTCs component of the DTAs. Although realization is not assured, 

Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $49.5 billion 

at December 31, 2014 is more-likely-than-not based upon expectations as 
to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and 

available tax planning strategies (as defined in ASC 740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. 

In general, Citi would need to generate approximately $81 billion of U.S. 
taxable income during the FTCs carry-forward periods to prevent Citi™s DTAs 

from expiring. Citi™s net DTAs will decline primarily as additional domestic 

GAAP taxable income is generated.Citi has concluded that two components of positive evidence support the full realization of its DTAs. First, Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. taxable income 

in the carry-forward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax planning strategies. 
Citi™s forecasted taxable income, which will continue to be subject to overall 

market and global economic conditions, incorporates geographic business 
forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those forecasts (e.g., U.S. 
tax exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. tax reporting in 
subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. taxable earnings.Second, Citi has sufficient tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward 

from expiring. These strategies include repatriating low-taxed foreign source 
earnings for which an assertion that the earnings have been indefinitely 
reinvested has not been made; accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or 
deferring U.S. tax deductions out of, the latter years of the carry-forward 
period (e.g., selling appreciated assets, electing straight-line depreciation); 
accelerating deductible temporary differences outside the U.S.; and selling 
certain assets that produce tax-exempt income, while purchasing assets that 
produce fully taxable income. In addition, the sale or restructuring of certain 
businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable income within the relevant 
carry-forward periods.Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city net operating loss carry-forward period of 20 years 

provides enough time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing 

net operating loss carry-forwards and any net operating loss that would be 
created by the reversal of the future net deductions that have not yet been 
taken on a tax return.With respect to the FTCs component of the DTAs, the carry-forward period 
is 10 years. Citi believes that it will generate sufficient U.S. taxable income 
within the 10-year carry-forward period to be able to fully utilize the FTCs, in 
addition to any FTCs produced in such period, which must be used prior to 
any carry-forward utilization.For additional information on Citi™s income taxes, including its income 
tax provision, tax assets and liabilities, and a tabular summary of Citi™s 

net DTAs balance as of December 31, 2014 (including the FTCs and 

applicable expiration dates of the FTCs), see Note 9 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Litigation AccrualsSee the discussion in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
information regarding Citi™s policies on establishing accruals for litigation 
and regulatory contingencies.Accounting Changes and Future Application of 
Accounting StandardsSee Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a 
discussion of ﬁAccounting Changesﬂ and the ﬁFuture Application of 
Accounting Standards.ﬂ127DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESCiti™s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within 
the time periods specified in the SEC™s rules and forms, including without 
limitation that information required to be disclosed by Citi in its SEC filings 
is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) as appropriate to 
allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Citi™s Disclosure Committee assists the CEO and CFO in their 
responsibilities to design, establish, maintain and evaluate the effectiveness 
of Citi™s disclosure controls and procedures. The Disclosure Committee 

is responsible for, among other things, the oversight, maintenance and 

implementation of the disclosure controls and procedures, subject to the 
supervision and oversight of the CEO and CFO.Citi™s management, with the participation of its CEO and CFO, has 
evaluated the effectiveness of Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures 

(as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as 
of December 31, 2014 and, based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have 
concluded that at that date Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures 

were effective.128MANAGEMENT™S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTINGCiti™s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting. Citi™s internal control over 
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles. Citi™s internal control over financial 
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of Citi™s assets; (ii) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that Citi™s receipts and expenditures are made only in 
accordance with authorizations of Citi™s management and directors; and 
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Citi™s assets that could have 
a material effect on its financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In addition, given Citi™s large size, complex operations and global footprint, 

lapses or deficiencies in internal controls may occur from time to time.Citi management assessed the effectiveness of Citigroup™s internal 
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 based on the 
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO) in
 Internal Control-Integrated Framework 
(2013). Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of 
December 31, 2014, Citi™s internal control over financial reporting was 

effective. In addition, there were no changes in Citi™s internal control over 

financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014 that 
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Citi™s internal 

control over financial reporting.The effectiveness of Citi™s internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2014 has been audited by KPMG LLP, Citi™s independent 

registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report below, which 

expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of Citi™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014.129FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSCertain statements in this Form 10-K, including but not limited to statements included within the Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations, are ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ 
within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. In addition, Citigroup also may make forward-looking statements in its 
other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC, and its management may 

make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives 
of the media and others.Generally, forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts 
but instead represent Citigroup™s and its management™s beliefs regarding 

future events. Such statements may be identified by words such as believe, 
expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, may increase, may fluctuate, and 
similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as will, should, would 
and could.Such statements are based on management™s current expectations and are 
subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Actual results 
and capital and other financial conditions may differ materially from those 
included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including without 
limitation the precautionary statements included within each individual 
business™ discussion and analysis of its results of operations and the factors 
listed and described under ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Citigroup speak only as to the date they are made, and Citi does not undertake to update 
forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events 
that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made.130REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠINTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTINGThe Board of Directors and Stockholders
Citigroup Inc.:We have audited Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries™ (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company™s 
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control 
over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of 
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying 
management™s annual report on internal control over financial reporting. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company™s internal control 
over financial reporting based on our audit.We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an 
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a 

reasonable basis for our opinion.A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company™s 

internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that 

could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.In our opinion, Citigroup maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based 
on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework 
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway
 Commission.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated 
balance sheets of Citigroup as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the 
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes 
in stockholders™ equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended December 31, 2014, and our report dated February 25, 2015 
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.New York, New York 
February 25, 2015131The Board of Directors and Stockholders Citigroup Inc.:We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) as of 
December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of 
income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders™ equity and cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 
2014. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company™s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for 

our opinion.In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Citigroup as 

of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of its operations and its cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, 
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Citigroup™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 

(COSO), and our report dated February 25, 2015 expressed an unqualified 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over 

financial reporting.New York, New York 
February 25, 2015REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠ
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS132133FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES TABLE OF CONTENTSCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSConsolidated Statement of IncomeŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012134Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012135Consolidated Balance SheetŠDecember 31, 2014 and 2013136Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders™ EquityŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012138Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsŠ For the Years Ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012139NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL  STATEMENTSNote 1 Œ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies141Note 2 Œ Discontinued Operations and Significant Disposals155Note 3 Œ Business Segments158Note 4 Œ Interest Revenue and Expense159Note 5 Œ Commissions and Fees160Note 6 Œ Principal Transactions161Note 7 Œ Incentive Plans162Note 8 Œ Retirement Benefits166Note 9 Œ Income Taxes181Note 10 Œ Earnings per Share186Note 11 Œ Federal Funds, Securities Borrowed, Loaned and Subject to Repurchase Agreements187Note 12 Œ Brokerage Receivables and Brokerage Payables189Note 13 Œ Trading Account Assets and Liabilities189Note 14 Œ Investments190Note 15 Œ Loans200Note 16 Œ Allowance for Credit Losses212Note 17 Œ Goodwill and Intangible Assets214Note 18 Œ Debt217Note 19 Œ Regulatory Capital and Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Information219Note 20 Œ Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive  Income (Loss)222Note 21 Œ Preferred Stock225Note 22 Œ Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities226Note 23 Œ Derivatives Activities245Note 24 Œ Concentrations of Credit Risk257Note 25 Œ Fair Value Measurement258Note 26 Œ Fair Value Elections279Note 27 Œ Pledged Assets, Collateral, Guarantees and Commitments283Note 28 Œ Contingencies289Note 29 Œ Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)299134CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOMECitigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars, except per share amounts
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Revenues (1)$61,68313,690Net interest revenue$47,993$13,0326,698
4,013
570
(432)––
8$(424)––$2,1102,890Total non-interest revenues
$28,889Total revenues, net of interest expense
$76,882Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims

$6,828801
(162)–Total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$7,467Operating expenses 
(1)
$23,9593,178‰
6,4361,844
19,634Total operating expenses
$55,051Income from continuing operations before income taxes$14,364
6,864Income from continuing operations$7,500Discontinued operations
$10––Š—˛–
12––Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(2)–Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,498185Citigroup™s net income
$7,313Basic earnings per share (2)
$2.21
Š—˚‚˚˜–Net income$2.21Weighted average common shares outstanding
3,031.6Diluted earnings per share (2)
$2.20
Š—˚‚˚˜–Net income$2.20Adjusted weighted average common shares outstanding3,037.0—˛–
—˜–

135CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOMECitigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,498Citigroup™s other comprehensive income (loss)

$1,697–
336
—˛–(1,170)–
(4,946)–Citigroup™s total other comprehensive income (loss)
$(4,083)–Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
$6–˝˜
(112)˛˚Total other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
$(106)–Total comprehensive income before attribution of noncontrolling interests
$3,309‰
185Citigroup™s comprehensive income
$3,124—˛–’ﬁ

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
‚

136CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETCitigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Assets
$32,108128,089
’
242,570
28,419‰’–
296,786“’–
300,143’–
23,921’–
9,379‰
$333,443’
369,970’
274,665
$644,635
(15,994)–‰
$628,64123,592
4,566
1,845’
122,471Total assets
$1,842,530The following table presents certain assets of consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The assets in the table below include those assets that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs, presented on the following page, and are in excess of those obligations. Additionally, the assets in the table below include third-party assets of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that 

eliminate in consolidation.December 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Assets of consolidated VIEs to be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs$300‰
6718,014
’
66,383’
29,596
$95,979
(2,793)–‰
$93,186619Total assets of consolidated VIEs to be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs
$102,790
137CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET(Continued) Citigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars, except shares and per share amounts
2014˜˚˛˝Liabilities
$128,958
’
284,978
70,925
’
414,471‰
$899,332
’
173,438
52,180‰
139,036’
58,335’
223,080’
85,084Total liabilities
$1,630,485Stockholders™ equity

418,720 as ofDecember 31, 2014

$10,468
3,082,037,568 as of December 31, 2014

31˝˛
107,979118,201‰
December 31, 2014Š58,119,993

(2,929)–
(23,216)–Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$210,5341,511Total equity
$212,045Total liabilities and equity
$1,842,530The following table presents certain liabilities of consolidated VIEs, which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The liabilities in the table below include third-party liabilities of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation. The liabilities also exclude amounts where creditors or beneficial interest holders have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup.December 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have  recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$20,254’
40,078
901Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have 
 recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$61,233
138CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS™ EQUITYCitigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
AmountsSharesIn millions of dollars, except shares in thousands
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Preferred stock at aggregate liquidation value

$6,738˝˛˜270˛˚˜˛˜3,730149Š–Š—˝–
$10,468419˛˚˜Common stock and additional paid-in capital

$107,2243,062,09979819,928(31)–Š‰‰
ŠŠ19˝–11˜˜
$108,0103,082,038Retained earnings

$111,168
7,313(122)—˛˜˚–—˛˜˚–(511)––‰
353Š˛
$118,201Treasury stock, at cost


$(1,658)––(32,856)––(39)(483)––‰
(1,232)––(24,780)––
$(2,929)––(58,119)––Citigroup™s accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

$(19,133)––
other comprehensive income (loss)(4,083)–
$(23,216)––Total Citigroup common stockholders™ equity
$200,0663,023,919Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$210,534Noncontrolling interests
$1,794
Š‰
’
Š—˜–‰
(96)–
185(91)–—˝˝–Other comprehensive income (loss)
(106)–(175)––Net change in noncontrolling interests$(283)–Balance, end of period
$1,511Total equity
$212,045—˛–
—˜–

—˝–

139CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSCitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operationsNet income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,498Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests185Citigroup™s net income
$7,313Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes
(2)––Gain (loss) on sale, net of taxes
Š—˛–Income from continuing operationsŠexcluding noncontrolling interests
$7,315Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations

210˜˚˝(64)–
3,5893,014–
6,828(570)––426(10,858)–
30,274––
(4,272)–
(1,144)–709–
4,544––
5,433Total adjustments
$38,119–Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations
$45,434–Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$40,916–
14,4671,170––
4,752(258,992)––135,824
94,117
(3,386)––
623Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
$29,491–Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(633)––3,699Š–‰
(1,232)––
(508)––
(30,074)–66,836
(58,923)––(48,336)(1,099)–
140CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS(Continued) Citigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations
$(70,270)–
$(2,432)–Discontinued operationsNet cash used in discontinued operations$Š—˛˚–Change in cash and due from banks$2,223–Cash and due from banks at beginning of period29,885Cash and due from banks at end of period$32,108Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations

$4,632
12,868Non-cash investing activities
$(374)‰
12,700‰
321Non-cash financing activities

$(20,605)
500
(864)
141NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Throughout these Notes, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and the ﬁCompanyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements and notes to conform to the current period™s presentation.
Principles of ConsolidationThe Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Citigroup 
and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP). The Company consolidates subsidiaries in 
which it holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights or 
where it exercises control. Entities where the Company holds 20% to 50% of 
the voting rights and/or has the ability to exercise significant influence, other 
than investments of designated venture capital subsidiaries or investments 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option, are accounted for 
under the equity method, and the pro rata share of their income (loss) is 
included in Other revenue. Income from investments in less than 20% owned 
companies is recognized when dividends are received. As discussed in more 
detail in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citigroup also 
consolidates entities deemed to be variable interest entities when Citigroup is 
determined to be the primary beneficiary. Gains and losses on the disposition 
of branches, subsidiaries, affiliates, buildings, and other investments are 
included in Other revenue.Citibank, N.A.Citibank, N.A. is a commercial bank and wholly owned subsidiary of 
Citigroup Inc. Citibank™s principal offerings include: consumer finance, 
mortgage lending and retail banking products and services; investment 
banking, commercial banking, cash management and trade finance; and 
private banking products and services.Variable Interest EntitiesAn entity is referred to as a variable interest entity (VIE) if it meets the 
criteria outlined in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 810, 
Consolidation, which are: (i) the entity has equity that is insufficient to 
permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated 
financial support from other parties; or (ii) the entity has equity investors 
that cannot make significant decisions about the entity™s operations or that 
do not absorb their proportionate share of the entity™s expected losses or 
expected returns.The Company consolidates a VIE when it has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic performance 

and a right to receive benefits or the obligation to absorb losses of the 
entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE (that is, Citi is the 
primary beneficiary).In addition to variable interests held in consolidated VIEs, the Company has variable interests in other VIEs that are not consolidated because the 
Company is not the primary beneficiary. These include multi-seller finance 

companies, certain collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), many structured 
finance transactions and various investment funds. However, these VIEs 

and all other unconsolidated VIEs are monitored by the Company to assess 
whether any events have occurred to cause its primary beneficiary status to 
change. These events include:purchases or sales of variable interests by Citigroup or an unrelated third party, which cause Citigroup™s overall variable interest 
ownership to change;changes in contractual arrangements that reallocate expected losses and 
residual returns among the variable interest holders;changes in the party that has power to direct the activities of a VIE that 
most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; andproviding financial support to an entity that results in an implicit 
variable interest.All other entities not deemed to be VIEs with which the Company has involvement are evaluated for consolidation under other subtopics of ASC 810.Foreign Currency TranslationAssets and liabilities of Citi™s foreign operations are translated from their 
respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars using period-end spot 
foreign-exchange rates. The effects of those translation adjustments are 
reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component 
of stockholders™ equity, along with any related hedge and tax effects, until 
realized upon sale or substantial liquidation of the foreign operation. 
Revenues and expenses of Citi™s foreign operations are translated monthly 
from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars at amounts that 
approximate weighted average exchange rates.For transactions whose terms are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, including transactions denominated in the local 

currencies of foreign operations with the U.S. dollar as their functional 
currency, the effects of changes in exchange rates are primarily included 

in Principal transactions, along with the related effects of any economic 
hedges. Instruments used to hedge foreign currency exposures include 
foreign currency forward, option and swap contracts and in certain instances, 
designated issues of non-U.S. dollar debt. Foreign operations in countries 
with highly inflationary economies designate the U.S. dollar as their 
functional currency, with the effects of changes in exchange rates primarily 

included in Other revenue.142Investment SecuritiesInvestments include fixed income and equity securities. Fixed income instruments include bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stocks, as well as 
certain loan-backed and structured securities that are subject to prepayment 
risk. Equity securities include common and nonredeemable preferred stock.Investment securities are classified and accounted for as follows:Fixed income securities classified as ﬁheld-to-maturityﬂ are securities that 
the Company has both the ability and the intent to hold until maturity 
and are carried at amortized cost. Interest income on such securities is 
included in Interest revenue.Fixed income securities and marketable equity securities classified 
as ﬁavailable-for-saleﬂ are carried at fair value with changes in fair 
value reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), 
a component of Stockholders™ equity, net of applicable income taxes 
and hedges. Realized gains and losses on sales are included in income 
primarily on a specific identification cost basis. Interest and dividend 
income on such securities is included in Interest revenue.Certain investments in non-marketable equity securities and certain 
investments that would otherwise have been accounted for using the 
equity method are carried at fair value, since the Company has elected to 
apply fair value accounting. Changes in fair value of such investments are 
recorded in earnings.Certain non-marketable equity securities are carried at cost and are 
periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, as described 
in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For investments in fixed income securities classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale, the accrual of interest income is suspended for investments 
that are in default or for which it is likely that future interest payments will 
not be made as scheduled.Investment securities are subject to evaluation for other-than-temporary 
impairment as described in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Company uses a number of valuation techniques for investments carried at fair value, which are described in Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are 
included in earnings.Trading Account Assets and LiabilitiesTrading account assets include debt and marketable equity securities, 
derivatives in a receivable position, residual interests in securitizations and 
physical commodities inventory. In addition, as described in Note 26 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain assets that Citigroup has 
elected to carry at fair value under the fair value option, such as loans and 
purchased guarantees, are also included in Trading account assets.Trading account liabilities
 include securities sold, not yet purchased (short positions) and derivatives in a net payable position, as well as certain 
liabilities that Citigroup has elected to carry at fair value (as described in 
Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Other than physical commodities inventory, all trading account assets 
and liabilities are carried at fair value. Revenues generated from trading 
assets and trading liabilities are generally reported in Principal transactions and include realized gains and losses as well as unrealized gains and losses 
resulting from changes in the fair value of such instruments. Interest income 
on trading assets is recorded in Interest revenue reduced by interest expense 
on trading liabilities.Physical commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or market with related losses reported in Principal transactions. Realized gains and losses on sales of commodities inventory are included in Principal transactions. Investments in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, 
silver, platinum and palladium) are accounted for as hybrid instruments 

containing a debt host contract and an embedded non-financial derivative 
instrument indexed to the price of the relevant precious metal. The embedded 
derivative instrument is separated from the debt host contract and accounted 
for at fair value. The debt host contract is accounted for at fair value 
under the fair value option, as described in Note 26 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Derivatives used for trading purposes include interest rate, currency, 
equity, credit, and commodity swap agreements, options, caps and floors, 

warrants, and financial and commodity futures and forward contracts. 
Derivative asset and liability positions are presented net by counterparty on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet when a valid master netting agreement exists 
and the other conditions set out in ASC 210-20, Balance SheetŠOffsetting, are met. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Company uses a number of techniques to determine the fair value of trading assets and liabilities, which are described in Note 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.143Securities Borrowed and Securities LoanedSecurities borrowing and lending transactions generally do not constitute a sale of the underlying securities for accounting purposes and are treated as 
collateralized financing transactions. Such transactions are recorded at the 
amount of proceeds advanced or received plus accrued interest. As described 
in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has 
elected to apply fair value accounting to a number of securities borrowing 
and lending transactions. Fees paid or received for all securities lending and 
borrowing transactions are recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue 
at the contractually specified rate.The Company monitors the fair value of securities borrowed or loaned on a daily basis and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain 
contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of securities lending and borrowing transactions.Repurchase and Resale AgreementsSecurities sold under agreements to repurchase (repos) and securities 
purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos) generally do not 
constitute a sale of the underlying securities for accounting purposes and are 
treated as collateralized financing transactions. As described in Note 26 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has elected to apply fair 
value accounting to the majority of such transactions, with changes in fair 
value reported in earnings. Any transactions for which fair value accounting 
has not been elected are recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received 
plus accrued interest. Irrespective of whether the Company has elected fair 
value accounting, interest paid or received on all repo and reverse repo 
transactions is recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue at the 
contractually specified rate.Where the conditions of ASC 210-20-45-11, Balance Sheet-Offsetting: Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements, are met, repos and 
reverse repos are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.The Company™s policy is to take possession of securities purchased under 
reverse repurchase agreements. The Company monitors the fair value of 
securities subject to repurchase or resale on a daily basis and obtains or posts 
additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of repo and reverse repo transactions.LoansLoans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any 
unearned income and unamortized deferred fees and costs except that 
credit card receivable balances also include accrued interest and fees. Loan 
origination fees and certain direct origination costs are generally deferred 
and recognized as adjustments to income over the lives of the related loans.As described in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citi has elected fair value accounting for certain loans. Such loans are carried at fair 
value with changes in fair value reported in earnings. Interest income on 
such loans is recorded in Interest revenue at the contractually specified rate.Loans for which the fair value option has not been elected are classified upon origination or acquisition as either held-for-investment or held-for-sale. 

This classification is based on management™s initial intent and ability with 

regard to those loans.Loans that are held-for-investment are classified as 
Loans, net of unearned income on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the related cash 
flows are included within the cash flows from investing activities category 
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Change in loans. However, when the initial intent for holding a loan has changed from 

held-for-investment to held-for-sale, the loan is reclassified to held-for-

sale, but the related cash flows continue to be reported in cash flows from 
investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line 
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans.144Consumer loansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the Global Consumer Banking businesses and Citi Holdings.Consumer non-accrual and re-aging policiesAs a general rule, interest accrual ceases for installment and real estate (both 
open- and closed-end) loans when payments are 90 days contractually past 
due. For credit cards and other unsecured revolving loans, however, Citi 
generally accrues interest until payments are 180 days past due. As a result 
of OCC guidance, home equity loans in regulated bank entities are classified 
as non-accrual if the related residential first mortgage is 90 days or more 
past due. Also as a result of OCC guidance, mortgage loans in regulated bank 
entities discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured 
loans, are classified as non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on 
a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience 
and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that 
the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal 
is 90 days past due.Loans that have been modified to grant a concession to a borrower in financial difficulty may not be accruing interest at the time of the 
modification. The policy for returning such modified loans to accrual status 
varies by product and/or region. In most cases, a minimum number of 
payments (ranging from one to six) is required, while in other cases the loan 
is never returned to accrual status. For regulated bank entities, such modified 
loans are returned to accrual status if a credit evaluation at the time of, or 
subsequent to, the modification indicates the borrower is able to meet the 
restructured terms, and the borrower is current and has demonstrated a 
reasonable period of sustained payment performance (minimum six months 
of consecutive payments).For U.S. consumer loans, generally one of the conditions to qualify for modification is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) must be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) loans may only be modified under those respective 

agencies™ guidelines and payments are not always required in order to re-age 
a modified loan to current.Consumer charge-off policies
Citi™s charge-off policies follow the general guidelines below:Unsecured installment loans are charged off at 120 days contractually past due.Unsecured revolving loans and credit card loans are charged off at 
180 days contractually past due.Loans secured with non-real estate collateral are written down to 
the estimated value of the collateral, less costs to sell, at 120 days 
contractually past due.Real estate-secured loans are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 180 days contractually past due.Real estate-secured loans are charged off no later than 180 days 
contractually past due if a decision has been made not to foreclose on 
the loans.Non-bank real estate-secured loans are charged off at the earlier of 
180 days contractually past due, if there have been no payments within 
the last six months, or 360 days contractually past due, if a decision has 
been made not to foreclose on the loans. Non-bank loans secured by real estate are written down to the estimated 
value of the property, less costs to sell, at the earlier of the receipt of 
title, the initiation of foreclosure (a process that must commence when 
payments are 120 days contractually past due), when the loan is 180 days 
contractually past due if there have been no payments within the past 
six months or 360 days contractually past due. Non-bank unsecured personal loans are charged off at the earlier of 
180 days contractually past due if there have been no payments within the 
last six months, or 360 days contractually past due.Unsecured loans in bankruptcy are charged off within 60 days of 
notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or in accordance with Citi™s 
charge-off policy, whichever occurs earlier.Consistent with OCC guidance, real estate-secured loans that were 
discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured loans, 
are written down to the estimated value of the property, less costs to sell. 
Other real estate-secured loans in bankruptcy are written down to the 
estimated value of the property, less costs to sell, at the later of 60 days 
after notification or 60 days contractually past due.Non-bank loans secured by real estate that are discharged through 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 60 days contractually past due. Non-bank unsecured personal loans in bankruptcy are charged off when 
they are 30 days contractually past due.Commercial market loans are written down to the extent that principal is 
judged to be uncollectable.145Corporate loansCorporate loans represent loans and leases managed by ICG or, to a much lesser extent, Citi Holdings. Corporate loans are identified as impaired and 
placed on a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual 
experience and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan 
in full, that the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest 
or principal is 90 days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized 
and in the process of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired corporate 
loans and leases is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, 
and interest is thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually 
received in cash. When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability 
of principal, all cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded 
investment in the loan.Impaired corporate loans and leases are written down to the extent that principal is deemed to be uncollectable. Impaired collateral-dependent loans 
and leases, where repayment is expected to be provided solely by the sale 
of the underlying collateral and there are no other available and reliable 
sources of repayment, are written down to the lower of cost or collateral 
value. Cash-basis loans are returned to accrual status when all contractual 
principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of repayment and 
there is a sustained period of repayment performance in accordance with the 
contractual terms.Loans Held-for-SaleCorporate and consumer loans that have been identified for sale are classified 
as loans held-for-sale and included in Other assets. The practice of Citi™s U.S. 
prime mortgage business has been to sell substantially all of its conforming 
loans. As such, U.S. prime mortgage conforming loans are classified as 
held-for-sale and the fair value option is elected at origination, with changes 
in fair value recorded in Other revenue. With the exception of those loans 
for which the fair value option has been elected, held-for-sale loans are 
accounted for at the lower of cost or market value, with any write-downs or 
subsequent recoveries charged to Other revenue. The related cash flows are 
classified in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the cash flows from 
operating activities category on the line Change in loans held-for-sale.Allowance for Loan LossesAllowance for loan losses represents management™s best estimate of probable 
losses inherent in the portfolio, including probable losses related to large 
individually evaluated impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings. 
Attribution of the allowance is made for analytical purposes only, and 
the entire allowance is available to absorb probable loan losses inherent 
in the overall portfolio. Additions to the allowance are made through the 
Provision for loan losses. Loan losses are deducted from the allowance and 
subsequent recoveries are added. Assets received in exchange for loan claims 
in a restructuring are initially recorded at fair value, with any gain or loss 
reflected as a recovery or charge-off to the provision.Consumer loans
For consumer loans, each portfolio of non-modified smaller-balance, 
homogeneous loans is independently evaluated by product type 
(e.g., residential mortgage, credit card, etc.) for impairment in accordance 
with ASC 450-20. The allowance for loan losses attributed to these loans 
is established via a process that estimates the probable losses inherent in 
the specific portfolio. This process includes migration analysis, in which 
historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current 
aging of the portfolio, together with analyses that reflect current and 
anticipated economic conditions, including changes in housing prices and 
unemployment trends. Citi™s allowance for loan losses under ASC 450 only 
considers contractual principal amounts due, except for credit card loans 
where estimated loss amounts related to accrued interest receivable are 
also included.Management also considers overall portfolio indicators, including historical credit losses, delinquent, non-performing and classified loans, 
trends in volumes and terms of loans, an evaluation of overall credit quality, 

the credit process, including lending policies and procedures, and economic, 
geographical, product and other environmental factors.Separate valuation allowances are determined for impaired smaller-
balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled 
debt restructuring (TDR). Long-term modification programs, as well as 
short-term (less than 12 months) modifications originated beginning 
January 1, 2011 that provide concessions (such as interest rate reductions) 
to borrowers in financial difficulty, are reported as TDRs. In addition, loan 

modifications that involve a trial period are reported as TDRs at the start 
of the trial period. The allowance for loan losses for TDRs is determined 
in accordance with ASC 310-10-35 considering all available evidence, 
including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s original contractual effective rate, the secondary 

market value of the loan and the fair value of collateral less disposal costs. 
These expected cash flows incorporate modification program default rate 
assumptions. The original contractual effective rate for credit card loans is 
the pre-modification rate, which may include interest rate increases under 
the original contractual agreement with the borrower.
Valuation allowances for commercial market loans, which are classifiably 
managed Consumer loans, are determined in the same manner as for 
Corporate loans and are described in more detail in the following section. 
Generally, an asset-specific component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35 

on an individual basis for larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans 

that are considered impaired and the allowance for the remainder of 
the classifiably managed Consumer loan portfolio is calculated under 
ASC 450 using a statistical methodology that may be supplemented by 
management adjustment.146Corporate loansIn the corporate portfolios, the Allowance for loan losses includes 
an asset-specific component and a statistically based component. The 
asset-specific component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35, ReceivablesŠSubsequent Measurement (formerly SFAS 114) on an individual basis for 
larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans, which are considered impaired. 
An asset-specific allowance is established when the discounted cash flows, 
collateral value (less disposal costs) or observable market price of the 
impaired loan are lower than its carrying value. This allowance considers the 
borrower™s overall financial condition, resources, and payment record, the 
prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors (discussed 
further below) and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. 
The asset-specific component of the allowance for smaller balance impaired 
loans is calculated on a pool basis considering historical loss experience.The allowance for the remainder of the loan portfolio is determined under ASC 450, Contingencies (formerly SFAS 5) using a statistical methodology, 

supplemented by management judgment. The statistical analysis considers 
the portfolio™s size, remaining tenor and credit quality as measured by 

internal risk ratings assigned to individual credit facilities, which reflect 
probability of default and loss given default. The statistical analysis considers 
historical default rates and historical loss severity in the event of default, 
including historical average levels and historical variability. The result is an 

estimated range for inherent losses. The best estimate within the range is 
then determined by management™s quantitative and qualitative assessment 

of current conditions, including general economic conditions, specific 
industry and geographic trends, and internal factors including portfolio 
concentrations, trends in internal credit quality indicators, and current and 
past underwriting standards.For both the asset-specific and the statistically based components of the Allowance for loan losses, management may incorporate guarantor support. 
The financial wherewithal of the guarantor is evaluated, as applicable, 
based on net worth, cash flow statements and personal or company financial 
statements which are updated and reviewed at least annually. Citi seeks 

performance on guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business. 
Seeking performance entails obtaining satisfactory cooperation from the 
guarantor or borrower in the specific situation. This regular cooperation 
is indicative of pursuit and successful enforcement of the guarantee; the 
exposure is reduced without the expense and burden of pursuing a legal 
remedy. A guarantor™s reputation and willingness to work with Citigroup 

is evaluated based on the historical experience with the guarantor and 
the knowledge of the marketplace. In the rare event that the guarantor 
is unwilling or unable to perform or facilitate borrower cooperation, Citi 
pursues a legal remedy; however, enforcing a guarantee via legal action 

against the guarantor is not the primary means of resolving a troubled 
loan situation and rarely occurs. If Citi does not pursue a legal remedy, 

it is because Citi does not believe that the guarantor has the financial 
wherewithal to perform regardless of legal action or because there are legal limitations on simultaneously pursuing guarantors and foreclosure. 
A guarantor™s reputation does not impact Citi™s decision or ability to seek 

performance under the guarantee.In cases where a guarantee is a factor in the assessment of loan losses, it is included via adjustment to the loan™s internal risk rating, which in turn 

is the basis for the adjustment to the statistically based component of the 
Allowance for loan losses. To date, it is only in rare circumstances that an 

impaired commercial loan or commercial real estate loan is carried at a 
value in excess of the appraised value due to a guarantee.When Citi™s monitoring of the loan indicates that the guarantor™s 
wherewithal to pay is uncertain or has deteriorated, there is either no 
change in the risk rating, because the guarantor™s credit support was never 

initially factored in, or the risk rating is adjusted to reflect that uncertainty 
or deterioration. Accordingly, a guarantor™s ultimate failure to perform or 

a lack of legal enforcement of the guarantee does not materially impact 
the allowance for loan losses, as there is typically no further significant 
adjustment of the loan™s risk rating at that time. Where Citi is not seeking 

performance under the guarantee contract, it provides for loan losses as if 
the loans were non-performing and not guaranteed.Reserve Estimates and PoliciesManagement provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent 
in the funded loan portfolio on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the 
form of an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are established in 
accordance with Citigroup™s credit reserve policies, as approved by the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer review the adequacy of the credit loss reserves each 
quarter with representatives from the risk management and finance staffs 
for each applicable business area. Applicable business areas include those 
having classifiably managed portfolios, where internal credit-risk ratings 
are assigned (primarily Institutional Clients Group and Global Consumer 
Banking) or modified Consumer loans, where concessions were granted due 
to the borrowers™ financial difficulties.The above-mentioned representatives for these business areas present recommended reserve balances for their funded and unfunded lending 
portfolios along with supporting quantitative and qualitative data 
discussed below:Estimated probable losses for non-performing, non-homogeneous exposures within a business line™s classifiably managed portfolio and 

impaired smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been 

modified due to the borrowers™ financial difficulties, where it was 
determined that a concession was granted to the borrower. Consideration may be given to the following, as appropriate, when determining this 
estimate: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the 
loan™s original effective rate; (ii) the borrower™s overall financial condition, 

resources and payment record; and (iii) the prospects for support from 147financially responsible guarantors or the realizable value of any collateral. In the determination of the allowance for loan losses for TDRs, management 
considers a combination of historical re-default rates, the current economic 
environment and the nature of the modification program when forecasting 
expected cash flows. When impairment is measured based on the present 
value of expected future cash flows, the entire change in present value is 
recorded in the Provision for loan losses.Statistically calculated losses inherent in the classifiably managed portfolio for performing and de minimis non-performing exposures. The calculation is based on: (i) Citi™s internal system of credit-risk ratings, 

which are analogous to the risk ratings of the major rating agencies; and 
(ii) historical default and loss data, including rating agency information 
regarding default rates from 1983 to 2013 and internal data dating to the 
early 1970s on severity of losses in the event of default. Adjustments may 
be made to this data. Such adjustments include: (i) statistically calculated 
estimates to cover the historical fluctuation of the default rates over the credit 
cycle, the historical variability of loss severity among defaulted loans, and the 
degree to which there are large obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; 
and (ii) adjustments made for specific known items, such as current 
environmental factors and credit trends.In addition, representatives from each of the risk management and finance staffs that cover business areas with delinquency-managed 
portfolios containing smaller-balance homogeneous loans present their 

recommended reserve balances based on leading credit indicators, including 
loan delinquencies and changes in portfolio size as well as economic trends, 
including current and future housing prices, unemployment, length of time 
in foreclosure, costs to sell and GDP. This methodology is applied separately 

for each individual product within each geographic region in which these 
portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on the credit costs in 
any period and could result in a change in the allowance.Allowance for Unfunded Lending CommitmentsA similar approach to the allowance for loan losses is used for calculating 
a reserve for the expected losses related to unfunded loan commitments 
and standby letters of credit. This reserve is classified on the balance 
sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the allowance for unfunded 
lending commitments are recorded in the Provision for unfunded lending commitments.Mortgage Servicing RightsMortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are recognized as intangible assets when purchased or when the Company sells or securitizes loans acquired 
through purchase or origination and retains the right to service the loans. 
Mortgage servicing rights are accounted for at fair value, with changes in 
value recorded in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Additional information on the Company™s MSRs can be found in Note 22 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations and 
WarrantiesIn connection with Citi™s sales of residential mortgage loans to the U.S. 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) and private investors, as well as 
through private-label securitizations, Citi typically makes representations 
and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, such as the 
loan™s compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the buyer 
and the validity of the lien securing the loan. The specific representations 
and warranties made by Citi in any particular transaction depend on, 
among other things, the nature of the transaction and the requirements of 
the investor.These sales expose Citi to potential claims for alleged breaches of its representations and warranties. In the event of a breach of its representations 
and warranties, Citi could be required either to repurchase the mortgage 
loans with the identified defects (generally at unpaid principal balance plus 
accrued interest) or to indemnify (make-whole) the investors for their losses 
on these loans.Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for its potential repurchase or make-whole liability regarding residential mortgage representation 
and warranty claims. Since the first quarter of 2013, Citi has considered 
private-label residential mortgage securitization representation and 
warranty claims as part of its litigation accrual analysis and not as part of its 
repurchase reserve. See Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
additional information on Citi™s potential private-label residential mortgage 

securitization exposure. Accordingly, Citi™s repurchase reserve has been 

recorded for purposes of its potential representation and warranty repurchase 
liability resulting from its whole loan sales to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent 
private investors, which are made through Citi™s Consumer business in 

CitiMortgage.In the case of a repurchase, Citi will bear any subsequent credit loss on the mortgage loan and the loan is typically considered a credit-impaired 
loan and accounted for under AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 03-3, 

ﬁAccounting of Certain Loans and Debt Securities Acquired in a Transferﬂ 

(now incorporated into ASC 310-30, Receivables-Loans and Debt Securities 
Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality) (SOP 03-3).148In the case of a repurchase of a credit-impaired SOP 03-3 loan, the difference between the loan™s fair value and unpaid principal balance at the 
time of the repurchase is recorded as a utilization of the repurchase reserve. 
Make-whole payments to the investor are also treated as utilizations and 
charged directly against the reserve. The repurchase reserve is estimated 
when Citi sells loans (recorded as an adjustment to the gain on sale, which is 
included in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income) and is 
updated quarterly. Any change in estimate is recorded in 
Other revenue.GoodwillGoodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value 
of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to 
annual impairment testing and between annual tests if an event occurs or 
circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value 
of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.Under ASC 350, IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other, the Company has an option to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is necessary to perform 
the goodwill impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or 
circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more-likely-than-not 
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, no 
further testing is necessary. If, however, the Company determines that it 

is more-likely-than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than 
its carrying amount, then the Company must perform the first step of the 
two-step goodwill impairment test.The Company has an unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any reporting period and proceed 
directly to the first step of the goodwill impairment test. Furthermore, on any 
business dispositions, goodwill is allocated to the business disposed of based 
on the ratio of the fair value of the business disposed of to the fair value of 
the reporting unit.The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the individual reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of 
the reporting unit is in excess of the carrying value, the related goodwill 
is considered not to be impaired and no further analysis is necessary. If 

the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, this is an 
indication of potential impairment and a second step of testing is performed 
to measure the amount of impairment, if any, for that reporting unit.
If required, the second step involves calculating the implied fair value of goodwill for each of the affected reporting units. The implied fair value 
of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill 
recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of 
the reporting unit determined in step one over the fair value of the net assets 
and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit were being acquired. 
If the amount of the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit exceeds the 
implied fair value of the goodwill in the pro forma purchase price allocation, 
an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. A recognized impairment 
charge cannot exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to a reporting unit 
and cannot subsequently be reversed even if the fair value of the reporting 
unit recovers.Additional information on Citi™s goodwill impairment testing can be 
found in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Intangible AssetsIntangible assets, including core deposit intangibles, present value of future 
profits, purchased credit card relationships, other customer relationships, 
and other intangible assets, but excluding MSRs, are amortized over their 
estimated useful lives. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful 
lives, primarily certain asset management contracts and trade names, are 
not amortized and are subject to annual impairment tests. An impairment 
exists if the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its 
fair value. For other intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment 
is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds the fair 
value of the intangible asset.Similar to the goodwill impairment analysis, in performing the annual impairment analysis for indefinite-lived intangible assets, Citi may and has 
elected to bypass the optional qualitative assessment, choosing instead to 
perform a quantitative analysis.Other Assets and Other LiabilitiesOther assets include, among other items, loans held-for-sale, deferred tax 
assets, equity method investments, interest and fees receivable, premises and 
equipment (including purchased and developed software), repossessed assets, 
and other receivables. Other liabilities include, among other items, accrued 
expenses and other payables, deferred tax liabilities, and reserves for legal 
claims, taxes, unfunded lending commitments, repositioning reserves, and 
other matters.Other Real Estate Owned and Repossessed AssetsReal estate or other assets received through foreclosure or repossession are 
generally reported in Other assets, net of a valuation allowance for selling 
costs and subsequent declines in fair value.SecuritizationsThe Company primarily securitizes credit card receivables and mortgages. 
Other types of securitized assets include corporate debt instruments (in cash 
and synthetic form).There are two key accounting determinations that must be made relating to securitizations. Citi first makes a determination as to whether the 
securitization entity must be consolidated. Second, it determines whether the 
transfer of financial assets to the entity is considered a sale under GAAP. If 

the securitization entity is a VIE, the Company consolidates the VIE if it is the 
primary beneficiary (as discussed in ﬁVariable Interest Entitiesﬂ above). For 

all other securitization entities determined not to be VIEs in which Citigroup 
participates, consolidation is based on which party has voting control of 
the entity, giving consideration to removal and liquidation rights in certain 

partnership structures. Only securitization entities controlled by Citigroup 
are consolidated.Interests in the securitized and sold assets may be retained in the form of subordinated or senior interest-only strips, subordinated tranches, spread 
accounts and servicing rights. In credit card securitizations, the Company 
retains a seller™s interest in the credit card receivables transferred to the trusts, 

which is not in securitized form. In the case of consolidated securitization 
entities, including the credit card trusts, these retained interests are not 149reported on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The securitized loans remain 
on the balance sheet. Substantially all of the Consumer loans sold or 
securitized through non-consolidated trusts by Citigroup are U.S. prime 
residential mortgage loans. Retained interests in non-consolidated mortgage 
securitization trusts are classified as Trading account assets
, except for 
MSRs, which are included in Mortgage servicing rights on Citigroup™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet.DebtShort-term borrowings and Long-term debt are accounted for at amortized 
cost, except where the Company has elected to report the debt instruments, 
including certain structured notes at fair value, or the debt is in a fair value 
hedging relationship.Transfers of Financial AssetsFor a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale: (i) the assets must 
have been legally isolated from the Company, even in bankruptcy or other 
receivership; (ii) the purchaser must have the right to pledge or sell the assets 
transferred or, if the purchaser is an entity whose sole purpose is to engage in 
securitization and asset-backed financing activities through the issuance of 
beneficial interests and that entity is constrained from pledging the assets it 
receives, each beneficial interest holder must have the right to sell or pledge 
their beneficial interests; and (iii) the Company may not have an option or 
obligation to reacquire the assets.If these sale requirements are met, the assets are removed from the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the conditions for sale are not 

met, the transfer is considered to be a secured borrowing, the assets remain 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the sale proceeds are recognized as 
the Company™s liability. A legal opinion on a sale generally is obtained for 

complex transactions or where the Company has continuing involvement 
with assets transferred or with the securitization entity. For a transfer to 

be eligible for sale accounting, those opinions must state that the asset 
transfer would be considered a sale and that the assets transferred would 
not be consolidated with the Company™s other assets in the event of the 

Company™s insolvency.
For a transfer of a portion of a financial asset to be considered a sale, the portion transferred must meet the definition of a participating interest. 
A participating interest must represent a pro rata ownership in an entire 
financial asset; all cash flows must be divided proportionately, with the 

same priority of payment; no participating interest in the transferred asset 
may be subordinated to the interest of another participating interest holder; 
and no party may have the right to pledge or exchange the entire financial 
asset unless all participating interest holders agree. Otherwise, the transfer is accounted for as a secured borrowing.See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.Risk Management ActivitiesŠDerivatives Used for Hedging PurposesThe Company manages its exposures to market rate movements outside its 
trading activities by modifying the asset and liability mix, either directly 
or through the use of derivative financial products, including interest-rate 
swaps, futures, forwards, and purchased options, as well as foreign-exchange 
contracts. These end-user derivatives are carried at fair value in Other assets, Other liabilities, Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities.To qualify as an accounting hedge under the hedge accounting rules 
(versus an economic hedge where hedge accounting is not sought), a 
derivative must be highly effective in offsetting the risk designated as being 
hedged. The hedge relationship must be formally documented at inception, 
detailing the particular risk management objective and strategy for the 
hedge. This includes the item and risk being hedged, the derivative being 
used and how effectiveness will be assessed and ineffectiveness measured. 
The effectiveness of these hedging relationships is evaluated both on a 
retrospective and prospective basis, typically using quantitative measures 
of correlation with hedge ineffectiveness measured and recorded in 
current earnings.If a hedge relationship is not highly effective, it no longer qualifies as an accounting hedge and hedge accounting may not be applied. Any gains or 
losses attributable to the derivatives, as well as subsequent changes in fair 
value, are recognized in Other revenue or Principal transactions with no offset to the hedged item, similar to trading derivatives.The foregoing criteria are applied on a decentralized basis, consistent with the level at which market risk is managed, but are subject to various limits 
and controls. The underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction may be 
an individual item or a portfolio of similar items.For fair value hedges, in which derivatives hedge the fair value of assets or liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivatives are reflected in Other revenue, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item related 
to the hedged risk. These amounts are expected to, and generally do, offset 
each other. Any net amount, representing hedge ineffectiveness, is reflected in 

current earnings. Citigroup™s fair value hedges are primarily hedges of fixed-

rate long-term debt and available-for-sale securities.
For cash flow hedges, in which derivatives hedge the variability of cash flows related to floating- and fixed-rate assets, liabilities or forecasted 
transactions, the accounting treatment depends on the effectiveness of 
the hedge. To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the 

variability of the hedged cash flows, the effective portion of the changes 
in the derivatives™ fair values will not be included in current earnings, but 
is reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These 
changes in fair value will be included in earnings of future periods when 
the hedged cash flows impact earnings. To the extent these derivatives are 

not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in Other revenue. Citigroup™s cash flow hedges primarily include hedges of floating-

rate debt and floating-rate assets, including loans and securities purchased 
under agreement to resell, as well as rollovers of short-term fixed-rate 
liabilities and floating-rate liabilities and forecasted debt issuances.150For net investment hedges in which derivatives hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the accounting treatment will similarly depend on the effectiveness of the hedge. The effective 
portion of the change in fair value of the derivative, including any forward 
premium or discount, is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment.For those accounting hedge relationships that are terminated or when hedge designations are removed, the hedge accounting treatment described 
in the paragraphs above is no longer applied. Instead, the end-user derivative 
is terminated or transferred to the trading account. For fair value hedges, any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item remain as part of the basis of the 
asset or liability and are ultimately reflected as an element of the yield. For 
cash flow hedges, any changes in fair value of the end-user derivative remain 
in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are included in earnings of future periods when the hedged cash flows impact earnings. 
However, if it becomes probable that some or all of the hedged forecasted 

transactions will not occur, any amounts that remain in 
Accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss) related to these transactions are immediately 
reflected in Other revenue.End-user derivatives that are economic hedges, rather than qualifying for hedge accounting, are also carried at fair value, with changes in value 
included in Principal transactions or Other revenue. Citigroup often 
uses economic hedges when qualifying for hedge accounting would be too 
complex or operationally burdensome. Examples are hedges of the credit 
risk component of commercial loans and loan commitments. Citigroup 
periodically evaluates its hedging strategies in other areas and may designate 
either a qualifying hedge or an economic hedge, after considering the 
relative cost and benefits. Economic hedges are also employed when the 
hedged item itself is marked to market through current earnings, such as 
hedges of commitments to originate one-to-four-family mortgage loans to be 

held for sale and MSRs. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for a further discussion of the Company™s hedging and derivative activities.
Employee Benefits ExpenseEmployee benefits expense includes current service costs of pension and 
other postretirement benefit plans (which are accrued on a current basis), 
contributions and unrestricted awards under other employee plans, the 
amortization of restricted stock awards and costs of other employee benefits. 
For its most significant pension and postretirement benefit plans (Significant 
Plans), the Company measures and discloses plan obligations, plan assets 
and periodic plan expense quarterly, instead of annually. The effect of 

remeasuring the Significant Plan obligations and assets by updating plan 
actuarial assumptions on a quarterly basis is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and periodic plan expense. All other plans 
(All Other Plans) are remeasured annually. See Note 8 to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.Stock-Based CompensationThe Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock and option 
awards over the requisite service period, generally based on the instruments™ 
grant-date fair value, reduced by expected forfeitures. Compensation cost 
related to awards granted to employees who meet certain age plus years-of-
service requirements (retirement-eligible employees) is accrued in the year 
prior to the grant date, in the same manner as the accrual for cash incentive 
compensation. Certain stock awards with performance conditions or certain 
clawback provisions are subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which 
the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in Citigroup™s 
stock price. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Income TaxesThe Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and its states and 
municipalities, and the foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax 
laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and 
the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for 
income tax expense, the Company must make judgments and interpretations 
about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. The Company 
must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect 
taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign.Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be 
settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company 
treats interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of Income tax expense.Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences of events that have been recognized for financial statements or tax returns, based upon 
enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject 
to management™s judgment that realization is more-likely-than-not. 

FASB Interpretation No. 48, ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in Income 

Taxesﬂ (FIN 48) (now incorporated into ASC 740, 
Income Taxes
), sets 
out a consistent framework to determine the appropriate level of tax 
reserves to maintain for uncertain tax positions. This interpretation uses 
a two-step approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is 
more-likely-than-not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then 
measured to be the highest tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to 
be realized. ASC 740 also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance 
transparency of an entity™s tax reserves.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of the Company™s tax provision and related income tax assets 

and liabilities.Commissions, Underwriting and Principal TransactionsCommissions revenues are recognized in income when earned. Underwriting 
revenues are recognized in income typically at the closing of the transaction. 
Principal transactions revenues are recognized in income on a trade-date 
basis. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description 
of the Company™s revenue recognition policies for commissions and fees, 
and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of principal 
transactions revenue.151Earnings per ShareEarnings per share (EPS) is computed after deducting preferred stock dividends. The Company has granted restricted and deferred share awards 
with dividend rights that are considered to be participating securities, 
which are akin to a second class of common stock. Accordingly, a portion 
of Citigroup™s earnings is allocated to those participating securities in the 
EPS calculation.Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders after the allocation of dividends and undistributed 
earnings to the participating securities by the weighted average number 
of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share 
reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts 
to issue common stock were exercised. It is computed after giving 
consideration to the weighted average dilutive effect of the Company™s stock 

options and warrants and convertible securities and after the allocation of 
earnings to the participating securities.Use of EstimatesManagement must make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related footnote disclosures. Such 
estimates are used in connection with certain fair value measurements. See 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions 
on estimates used in the determination of fair value. Moreover, estimates 
are significant in determining the amounts of other-than-temporary 
impairments, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, provisions 
for probable losses that may arise from credit-related exposures and probable 
and estimable losses related to litigation and regulatory proceedings, and tax 
reserves. While management makes its best judgment, actual amounts or 
results could differ from those estimates. Current market conditions increase 
the risk and complexity of the judgments in these estimates.Cash FlowsCash equivalents are defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from banks. Cash flows from risk management activities are classified in the 
same category as the related assets and liabilities.Related Party TransactionsThe Company has related party transactions with certain of its subsidiaries 
and affiliates. These transactions, which are primarily short-term in nature, 
include cash accounts, collateralized financing transactions, margin 
accounts, derivative trading, charges for operational support and the 
borrowing and lending of funds, and are entered into in the ordinary course 
of business.152ACCOUNTING CHANGESAccounting for Share-Based Payments with Performance TargetsIn June 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 
No. 2014-12, Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of 
an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after 
the Requisite Service Period (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues 
Task Force). The ASU prescribes the accounting to be applied to share-based 
awards that contain performance targets, the outcome of which will only 
be confirmed after the employee™s service period associated with the award 
has ended. Citi elected to adopt this ASU from the third quarter of 2014. The 
impact of adopting the ASU was not material.Discontinued Operations and Significant DisposalsThe FASB issued ASU No. 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements 
(Topic 810) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360), Reporting 
Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of 
an Entity (ASU 2014-08) in April 2014. ASU 2014-08 changes the criteria 
for reporting discontinued operations while enhancing disclosures. Under 
the ASU, only disposals representing a strategic shift having a major effect 
on an entity™s operations and financial results, such as a disposal of a 
major geographic area, a major line of business or a major equity method 
investment, may be presented as discontinued operations. Additionally, the 
ASU requires expanded disclosures about discontinued operations that will 
provide more information about the assets, liabilities, income and expenses 
of discontinued operations.The Company early-adopted the ASU in the second quarter of 2014 on a prospective basis for all disposals (or classifications as held-for-sale) of 

components of an entity that occurred on or after April 1, 2014. As a result 
of the adoption of the ASU, fewer disposals will now qualify for reporting 
as discontinued operations; however, disclosure of the pretax income 

attributable to a disposal of a significant part of an organization that does 
not qualify for discontinued operations reporting is required. The impact of 
adopting the ASU was not material.Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment 
upon Derecognition of Certain Foreign SubsidiariesIn March 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-05, Foreign Currency 
Matters (Topic 830): Parent™s Accounting for the Cumulative Translation 
Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of 
Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity 
(a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). This ASU clarifies 
the accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) when a 
parent either sells a part or all of its investment in a foreign entity or no 
longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets 
that is a nonprofit activity or a business within a foreign entity. The ASU 
requires the CTA to remain in equity until the foreign entity is disposed of or 
it is completely or substantially liquidated.This ASU became effective for Citi on January 1, 2014 and was applied on a prospective basis. The accounting prescribed in this ASU is consistent with 
Citi™s prior practice and, as a result, adoption did not result in any impact 

to Citi.OCC Chapter 7 Bankruptcy GuidanceIn the third quarter of 2012, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) issued guidance relating to the accounting for mortgage loans 
discharged through bankruptcy proceedings pursuant to Chapter 7 of the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 7 bankruptcy). Under this OCC guidance, 
the discharged loans are accounted for as troubled debt restructurings 
(TDRs). These TDRs, other than FHA-insured loans, are written down to their 
collateral value less cost to sell. FHA-insured loans are reserved for, based on 

a discounted cash flow model. As a result of implementing this guidance, 
Citigroup recorded an incremental $635 million of charge-offs in the third 
quarter of 2012, the vast majority of which related to loans that were current. 
These charge-offs were substantially offset by a related loan loss reserve 
release of approximately $600 million, with a net reduction in pretax income 
of $35 million. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Citigroup recorded a benefit 
to charge-offs of approximately $40 million related to finalizing the impact 
of this OCC guidance. Furthermore, as a result of this OCC guidance, TDRs 
increased by $1.7 billion and non-accrual loans increased by $1.5 billion in 
the third quarter of 2012 ($1.3 billion of which was current).Fair Value MeasurementIn May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement 
(Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement 
and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The ASU created 
a common definition of fair value for GAAP and IFRS and aligned the 
measurement and disclosure requirements. It required significant additional 
disclosures both of a qualitative and quantitative nature, particularly for 
those instruments measured at fair value that are classified in Level 3 of 
the fair value hierarchy. Additionally, the ASU provided guidance on when 
it is appropriate to measure fair value on a portfolio basis and expanded 
the prohibition on valuation adjustments where the size of the Company™s 
position is a characteristic of the adjustment from Level 1 to all levels of the 
fair value hierarchy.The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012. As a result of implementing the prohibition on valuation adjustments where the size of 
the Company™s position is a characteristic, the Company released reserves of 

approximately $125 million, increasing pretax income in the first quarter 
of 2012.153Deferred Asset Acquisition CostsIn October 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-26, Financial Services-Insurance (Topic 944): Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts. The ASU amended the guidance for 
insurance entities that required deferral and subsequent amortization of 
certain costs incurred during the acquisition of new or renewed insurance 
contracts, commonly referred to as deferred acquisition costs (DAC). The 
new guidance limited DAC to those costs directly related to the successful 
acquisition of insurance contracts; all other acquisition-related costs must be 
expensed as incurred. Under prior guidance, DAC consisted of those costs that 
vary with, and primarily relate to, the acquisition of insurance contracts.The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012 and was adopted using the retrospective method. As a result of implementing the ASU, 
in the first quarter of 2012, DAC was reduced by approximately $165 million 
and a $58 million deferred tax asset was recorded with an offset to opening 
retained earnings of $107 million (net of tax).Classification of Certain Government-Guaranteed 
Mortgage Loans upon ForeclosureIn August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-14, Receivables-Troubled Debt Restructuring by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40): Classification of 
Certain Government-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure, which requires that a mortgage loan be derecognized and a separate other 
receivable be recognized upon foreclosure if the following conditions are met: 
(i) the loan has a government guarantee that is not separable from the loan 
before foreclosure; (ii) at the time of foreclosure, the creditor has the intent 
to convey the real estate property to the guarantor and make a claim on the 
guarantee, and the creditor has the ability to recover under that claim; and 
(iii) at the time of foreclosure, any amount of the claim that is determined 
on the basis of the fair value of the real estate is fixed. Upon foreclosure, 
the separate other receivable is measured based on the amount of the loan 
balance (principal and interest) expected to be recovered from the guarantor.Citi early adopted the ASU on a modified retrospective basis in the fourth quarter of 2014, which resulted in reclassifying approximately $130 million 
of foreclosed assets from Other Real Estate Owned to a separate other 
receivable that is included in Other assets. Given the modified retrospective 
approach to adoption, prior periods have not been restated.FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDSAccounting for Investments in Tax Credit PartnershipsIn January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-01, Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in Qualified 
Affordable Housing Projects. Any transition adjustment is reflected 
as an adjustment to retained earnings in the earliest period presented 
(retrospective application).The ASU is applicable to Citi™s portfolio of low income housing tax 
credit (LIHTC) partnership interests. The new standard widens the scope 
of investments eligible to elect to apply a new alternative method, the 
proportional amortization method, under which the cost of the investment is 
amortized to tax expense in proportion to the amount of tax credits and other 
tax benefits received. Citi qualifies to elect the proportional amortization 
method under the ASU for its entire LIHTC portfolio. These investments are 
currently accounted for under the equity method, which results in losses (due 
to amortization of the investment) being recognized in Other revenue and tax credits and benefits being recognized in the Income tax expense line. In contrast, the proportional amortization method combines the amortization 
of the investment and receipt of the tax credits/benefits into one line, Income tax expense.Citi adopted ASU 2014-01 in the first quarter of 2015. The adoption of this ASU will reduce Retained earnings by approximately $349 million, 
Other assets by approximately $178 million, and deferred tax assets by 
approximately $171 million, each in the first quarter of 2015. Revenue RecognitionIn May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of 
revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised 
goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue 
recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective on January 1, 2017. 
Early application is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either 
the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The Company is 
evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on its consolidated financial 
statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a 
transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its 
financial statements.Accounting for Repurchase-to-Maturity TransactionsIn June 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-11, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase 
Financings, and Disclosures. The ASU changes the accounting for 
repurchase-to-maturity transactions and linked repurchase financings 
to secured borrowed accounting, which is consistent with the accounting 
for other repurchase agreements. The ASU also requires disclosures about 
transfers accounted for as sales in transactions that are economically similar 
to repurchase agreements and about the types of collateral pledged in 
repurchase agreements and similar transactions accounted for as secured 
borrowings. The ASU™s provisions became effective for Citi from the first 
quarter of 2015, with the exception of the collateral disclosures which will 154be effective from the second quarter of 2015. The effect of adopting the ASU is required to be reflected as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained 
earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Adoption of the ASU 
did not have a material effect on the Company™s financial statements.Measuring the Financial Assets and Liabilities of a 
Consolidated Collateralized Financial EntityIn August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-13, Consolidation (Topic 810): Measuring the Financial Assets and the Financial Liabilities 
of a Consolidated Collateralized Financing Entity, which provides two alternative methods for measuring the fair value of a consolidated 
Collateralized Financing Entity™s (CFE) financial assets and financial 
liabilities. This election is made separately for each CFE subject to the scope 
of the ASU. The first method requires the fair value of the financial assets 
and liabilities to be measured using the requirements of ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, with any differences between the 
fair value of the financial assets and financial liabilities being attributed to 
the CFE and reflected in earnings in the consolidated statement of income. 
The alternative method requires measuring both the financial assets and 
financial liabilities using the more observable of the fair value of the assets 
or liabilities. The alternative method would also take into consideration 
the carrying value of any beneficial interests of the CFE held by the parent, 
including those representing compensation for services, and the carrying 
value of any nonfinancial assets held temporarily. The ASU will be effective 
for Citi from the first quarter of 2016 and is not expected to have a material 
effect on the Company.Accounting for Derivatives: Hybrid Financial InstrumentsIn November 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-16, Derivatives and 
Hedging (Topic 815): Determining Whether the Host Contract in a Hybrid 
Financial Instrument Issued in the Form of a Share Is More Akin to 
Debt or to Equity. The ASU will require an entity to evaluate the economic 
characteristics and risks of an entire hybrid financial instrument issued in 
the form of a share (including the embedded derivative feature) in order to 
determine whether the nature of the host contract is more akin to debt or 
equity. Additionally, the ASU clarifies that no single term or feature would 
necessarily determine the economic characteristics and risks of the host 
contract; therefore, an entity should use judgment based on an evaluation of 
all the relevant terms and features. This ASU is effective for Citi from the first quarter of 2016 with early adoption permitted. Citi may choose to report the effects of initial adoption as 
a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of January 1, 2016 or 
apply the guidance retrospectively to all prior periods. The impact of adopting 

this ASU is not expected to be material to Citi.Accounting for Financial Instruments-Credit LossesIn December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed ASU, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses. This proposed ASU, or exposure draft, was issued for public 
comment in order to allow stakeholders the opportunity to review the 
proposal and provide comments to the FASB and does not constitute 
accounting guidance until a final ASU is issued.The exposure draft contains proposed guidance developed by the FASB 
with the goal of improving financial reporting about expected credit losses on 
loans, securities and other financial assets held by financial institutions and 
other organizations. The exposure draft proposes a new accounting model 
intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses, while also providing 
additional transparency about credit risk.The FASB™s proposed model would utilize an ﬁexpected credit lossﬂ 
measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses for loans, 
held-to-maturity securities and other receivables at the time the financial 
asset is originated or acquired and adjusted each period for changes in 
expected credit losses. For available-for-sale securities where fair value is 

less than cost, impairment would be recognized in the allowance for credit 
losses and adjusted each period for changes in credit. This would replace the 
multiple existing impairment models in GAAP, which generally require that a 

loss be ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized.The FASB™s proposed model represents a significant departure from 
existing GAAP, and may result in material changes to the Company™s 

accounting for financial instruments. The impact of the FASB™s final ASU 

on the Company™s financial statements will be assessed when it is issued. 

The exposure draft does not contain a proposed effective date; this would be 
included in the final ASU, when issued.ConsolidationIn February 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02, Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis, which is intended 
to improve certain areas of consolidation guidance for legal entities such 
as limited partnerships, limited liability companies, and securitization 
structures. The ASU will reduce the number of consolidation models. The ASU 
will be effective on January 1, 2016. Early adoption is permitted, including 
adoption in an interim period. The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 
2015-02 will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.155 2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT DISPOSALSDiscontinued OperationsThe following Discontinued operations are recorded within the Corporate/Other segment.Sale of Brazil Credicard BusinessOn December 20, 2013, Citi sold its non-Citibank-branded cards and 
consumer finance business in Brazil (Credicard) for approximately 
$1.24 billion. The sale resulted in a pretax gain of $206 million 
($325 million after-tax). In the fourth quarter of 2014, resolution of certain contingencies related to the disposal are reported asIncome (loss) from discontinued operations. Credicard is reported as Discontinued operations for all periods presented. Summarized financial information 
for Discontinued operations for Credicard follows:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$69˙˛ˆ˚˛˜˙˛ˆ˚ˇ˘
$63˙˙˛˛˚Š
11˛’Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$52˙˙’˛š
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜
$Š˙˛’—˙
Š˛’˘
ŠNet cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š˙˙Sale of Certain Citi Capital Advisors BusinessDuring the third quarter of 2012, Citi executed definitive agreements to 
transition a carve-out of its liquid strategies business within Citi Capital 
Advisors (CCA). The sale occurred pursuant to two separate transactions in 
2013, creating two separate management companies. The first transaction 
closed in February 2013, and Citigroup retained a 24.9% passive equity 
interest in the management company (which is held in Citi™s Institutional Clients Group segment). The second transaction closed in August 2013. CCA 
is reported as Discontinued operations for all periods presented.Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations for the operations related to CCA follows:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$Š˙—ˇ˙
$(7)˙˙Š
(3)Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(4)˙˙š
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜
$Š˙˙
Šˇ
Šˇ˝Net cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š˙˙156Sale of Egg Banking plc Credit Card BusinessIn April 2011, Citi completed the sale of the Egg Banking plc (Egg) credit card business. Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations for the operations related to Egg follows:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$5˙˙˛
$(46)˙˙Š
(16)Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(30)˙˙š
Cash flows from Discontinued operations related to Egg were not material for all periods presented.Audit of Citi German Consumer Tax GroupCiti sold its German retail banking operations in 2007 and reported them 
as Discontinued operations. During the third quarter of 2013, German 
tax authorities concluded their audit of Citi™s German consumer tax group 
for the years 2005-2008. This resolution resulted in a pretax benefit of 
$27 million and a tax benefit of $57 million ($85 million total net income 
benefit) during the third quarter of 2013, all of which was included in 
Discontinued operations. During 2014, residual costs associated with 
German retail banking operations resulted in a tax expense of $20 million.Combined Results for Discontinued OperationsThe following is summarized financial information for Credicard, CCA, Egg 
and previous Discontinued operations for which Citi continues to have 
minimal residual costs associated with the sales:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$74˙˙
$10˙˙Š
12Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(2)˙˜—˚˙š
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜
$Š˙˛˘ˇ˙
Š˛’’
Šˇ˝Net cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š˙˙Significant DisposalsThe following sales were identified as significant disposals, including the 
assets and liabilities that were reclassified to held-for-sale within Other assets and Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Income (loss) before taxes (benefits) related to each business.Agreement to Sell Japan Retail Banking BusinessOn December 25, 2014, Citi entered into an agreement to sell its Japan 
retail banking business that will be reported as part of Citi Holdings effective 
January 1, 2015. The sale, which is subject to regulatory approvals and other 
customary closing conditions, is expected to occur by the fourth quarter of 
2015 and result in an after-tax gain upon completion. Income before taxes 
for the period in which the individually significant component was classified 
as held-for-sale and for all prior periods are as follows:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Income before taxes$(5)˙˝˛˙The following assets and liabilities for the Japan retail banking business 
were identified and reclassified to held-for-sale within Other assets and Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2014:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014
Assets$15154451
19,85466Total assets
$20,666Liabilities$20,605
61Total liabilities
$20,666 157Sale of Spain Consumer OperationsOn September 22, 2014, Citi sold its consumer operations in Spain, which was part of Citi Holdings, including $1.7 billion of consumer loans (net 
of allowance), $3.4 billion of assets under management, $2.2 billion of 
customer deposits, 45 branches, 48 ATMs and 938 employees, with the 
buyer assuming the related current pension commitments at closing. The 
transaction generated a pretax gain on sale of $243 million ($131 million 
after-tax). Income before taxes for the period in which the individually 
significant component was classified as held for sale and for all prior periods 
are as follows:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Income before taxes$373˙˘’˙Sale of Greece Consumer OperationsOn September 30, 2014, Citi sold its consumer operations in Greece, which 
were part of Citi Holdings, including $353 million of consumer loans (net 
of allowance), $1.1 billion of assets under management, $1.2 billion of 
customer deposits, 20 branches, 85 ATMs and 719 employees, with the buyer 
assuming certain limited pension obligations related to Diners™ Club™s 
employees at closing. The transaction generated a pretax gain on sale of 
$209 million ($91 million after-tax). Income before taxes for the period in 
which the individually significant component was classified as held-for-sale 

and for all prior periods are as follows:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Income before taxes$133˙˙1583. BUSINESS SEGMENTSCitigroup™s activities are conducted through the Global Consumer Banking (GCB), Institutional Clients Group (ICG), Corporate/Other and Citi Holdings business segments.GCB includes a global, full-service consumer franchise delivering a wide array of banking, credit card lending and investment services through a network of local branches, offices and electronic delivery systems and is 
composed of four GCB businesses: North America, EMEA, Latin America 
and Asia.ICG is composed of Banking and Markets and securities services and provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth clients in 
approximately 100 countries with a broad range of banking and financial 
products and services.Corporate/Other includes certain unallocated costs of global functions, other corporate expenses and net treasury results, unallocated corporate 
expenses, offsets to certain line-item reclassifications and eliminations, the 
results of discontinued operations and unallocated taxes.Citi Holdings is composed of businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp businesses.The accounting policies of these reportable segments are the same as those disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The prior-period balances reflect reclassifications to conform the 
presentation in those periods to the current period™s presentation. Effective 

January 1, 2014, certain business activities within the former Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
 were realigned and aggregated as 
Banking and Markets and securities services within ICG. This change was 
due to the realignment of the management structure within ICG and did not have an impact on any total segment-level information. In addition, 
during the first quarter of 2014, reclassifications were made related to Citi™s 

re-allocation of certain administrative, operations and technology costs 
among Citi™s businesses, the allocation of certain costs from 
Corporate/Other to Citi™s businesses as well as certain immaterial reclassifications between 

revenues and expenses affecting ICG.The following table presents certain information regarding the Company™s 
continuing operations by segment:Revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)Provision (benefits)
 for income taxesIncome (loss) from continuing operations (2)Identifiable assetsIn millions of dollars, except 
 
identifiable assets in billions
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝Global Consumer Banking$37,753˙˙$3,473˙˙$6,938˙˙$396˙Institutional Clients Group33,2673,729˜ˇ˚˜˛9,5211,020Corporate/Other
47˛˜˛˛˜ˆ(459)(5,593)329˝˛˝
$71,067˙˙$6,743˙˙$10,866˙˙$1,745˙5,815121(3,366)98
$76,882˙˙$6,864˙˙$7,500˙˛˝ˇ˘˝˚˙$1,843˙˛ˇˆˆ˚Corporate/Other

North America
EMEA 

Latin America

Asia •š

GCB
ICG

•š
1594. INTEREST REVENUE AND EXPENSEFor the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 Interest revenue and Interest expense consisted of the following:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Interest revenue
$44,776˙˙959˛ˇ˚˜˘˛ˇ˜˘˛
2,366
7,195
5,880˘ˇˆ˚˜507˘˚˜Total interest revenue
$61,683˙˙Interest expense
$5,692˙˘ˇ˜˝˘˙
1,895
1685805,355˘ˇˆ˝˘Total interest expense
$13,690˙˙˜˚ˇ˘˛˜Net interest revenue$47,993˙˙
6,828Net interest revenue after provision for 
 loan losses$41,165˙˙˝˘ˇ˜˜ˆTrading account liabilities
ICGTrading account assets
š•š
1605. COMMISSIONS AND FEESThe primary components of Commissions and fees revenue are investment banking fees, trading-related fees, credit card and bank card fees and fees 
related to treasury and securities services in ICG.Investment banking fees are substantially composed of underwriting and advisory revenues and are recognized when Citigroup™s performance under 

the terms of a contractual arrangement is completed, which is typically at the 
closing of the transaction. Underwriting revenue is recorded in Commissions and fees, net of both reimbursable and non-reimbursable expenses, 
consistent with the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide for Brokers and 

Dealers in Securities (codified in ASC 940-605-05-1). Expenses associated 
with advisory transactions are recorded in Other operating expenses, net of 
client reimbursements. Out-of-pocket expenses are deferred and recognized 
at the time the related revenue is recognized. In general, expenses incurred 
related to investment banking transactions that fail to close (are not 
consummated) are recorded gross in Other operating expenses.Trading-related fees primarily include commissions and fees from the 
following: executing transactions for clients on exchanges and over-the-

counter markets; sale of mutual funds, insurance and other annuity 
products; and assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage 
services and other such activities. Trading-related fees are recognized 

when earned in Commissions and fees. Gains or losses, if any, on these 

transactions are included in Principal transactions (see Note 6 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements).Credit card and bank card fees are primarily composed of interchange revenue and certain card fees, including annual fees, reduced by reward 
program costs and certain partner payments. Interchange revenue and fees 
are recognized when earned, including annual card fees that are deferred 
and amortized on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period. Reward costs 
are recognized when points are earned by the customers. The following table 
presents Commissions and fees revenue for the years ended December 31:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜$3,687˙˙
2,503˜ˇ˝˝˛2,227
1,871885
531
531
380˝˛˝417˜˘˘Total commissions and fees
$13,032˙˙



1616. PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONSPrincipal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities. Trading activities include revenues 
from fixed income, equities, credit and commodities products and foreign 
exchange transactions. Not included in the table below is the impact of 
net interest revenue related to trading activities, which is an integral part 
of trading activities™ profitability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for information about net interest revenue related to trading 
activities. Principal transactions include CVA (credit valuation adjustments 
on derivatives), FVA (funding valuation adjustments) on over-the-counter 
derivatives and DVA (debt valuation adjustments on issued liabilities for 
which the fair value option has been elected).The following table presents principal transactions revenue for the years ended December 31:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Global Consumer Banking$787˙ˆ˘˝˙ˆ˚ˆInstitutional Clients Group5,908Corporate/Other
(383)$6,312˙˙386˝˛Total Citigroup
$6,698˙˙
$3,657˙˙˜ˇ˝ˆ˚2,008(260)590˛˚ˆ
703Total
$6,698˙˙







’








1627. INCENTIVE PLANSDiscretionary Annual Incentive AwardsCitigroup grants immediate cash bonus payments, deferred cash awards, stock payments and restricted and deferred stock awards as part of its 
discretionary annual incentive award program involving a large segment of 
Citigroup™s employees worldwide. Most of the shares of common stock issued 
by Citigroup as part of its equity compensation programs are to settle the 
vesting of the stock components of these awards.Discretionary annual incentive awards are generally awarded in the first quarter of the year based upon the previous year™s performance. Awards 

valued at less than U.S. $100,000 (or the local currency equivalent) are 
generally paid entirely in the form of an immediate cash bonus. Pursuant 
to Citigroup policy and/or regulatory requirements, certain employees and 
officers are subject to mandatory deferrals of incentive pay and generally 
receive 25% to 60% of their awards in a combination of restricted or deferred 
stock and deferred cash. Discretionary annual incentive awards to many 
employees in the EU are subject to deferral requirements regardless of the 
total award value, with 50% of the immediate incentive delivered in the form 
of a stock payment or stock unit award subject to a restriction on sale or 
transfer or hold back (generally, for six months).
Deferred annual incentive awards are generally delivered as two awardsŠa restricted or deferred stock award under Citi™s Capital 

Accumulation Program (CAP) and a deferred cash award. The applicable 
mix of CAP and deferred cash awards may vary based on the employee™s 

minimum deferral requirement and the country of employment. In some 
cases, the entire deferral will be in the form of either a CAP or deferred 
cash award.Subject to certain exceptions (principally, for retirement-eligible 
employees), continuous employment within Citigroup is required to vest 
in CAP and deferred cash awards. Post-employment vesting by retirement-
eligible employees and participants who meet other conditions is generally 
conditioned upon their refraining from competition with Citigroup during 
the remaining vesting period, unless the employment relationship has been 
terminated by Citigroup under certain conditions.Generally, the CAP and deferred cash awards vest in equal annual 
installments over three- or four-year periods. Vested CAP awards are delivered 

in shares of common stock. Deferred cash awards are payable in cash 
and earn a fixed notional rate of interest that is paid only if and when the 
underlying principal award amount vests. Generally, in the EU, vested CAP 

shares are subject to a restriction on sale or transfer after vesting, and vested 
deferred cash awards are subject to hold back (generally, for six months in 

each case).Unvested CAP and deferred cash awards made in January 2011 or later are subject to one or more clawback provisions that apply in certain 
circumstances, including in the case of employee risk-limit violations or 
other misconduct, or where the awards were based on earnings that were 
misstated. CAP awards made to certain employees in February 2013 and 
later, and deferred cash awards made to certain employees in January 2012, 

are subject to a formulaic performance-based vesting condition pursuant 
to which amounts otherwise scheduled to vest will be reduced based on the 
amount of any pretax loss in the participant™s business in the calendar year 

preceding the scheduled vesting date. For CAP awards made in February 2013 
and later, a minimum reduction of 20% applies for the first dollar of loss.
In addition, deferred cash awards made to certain employees in February 2013 and later are subject to a discretionary performance-based 
vesting condition under which an amount otherwise scheduled to vest 
may be reduced in the event of a ﬁmaterial adverse outcomeﬂ for which a 
participant has ﬁsignificant responsibility.ﬂ Deferred cash awards made to 

these employees in February 2014 and later are subject to an additional 
clawback provision pursuant to which unvested awards may be canceled 
if the employee engaged in misconduct or exercised materially imprudent 
judgment, or failed to supervise or escalate the behavior of other employees 
who did.Certain CAP and other stock-based awards, including those to participants in the EU that are subject to certain discretionary clawback provisions, are 
subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which the associated value of the 
award fluctuates with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price until the 

date that the award is settled, either in cash or shares. For these awards, the 
total amount that will be recognized as expense cannot be determined in full 
until the settlement date.Compensation AllowancesIn 2013 and 2014, certain employees of Citigroup™s U.K. regulated entities 
were granted fixed allowances, in addition to salary and annual incentive 
awards. Generally, these cash allowances are payable in equal installments 
during the service year and the following year or two years. The payments 
cease if the employee does not continue to meet applicable service or other 
requirements. The allowance payments are not subject to performance 
conditions or clawback. Discretionary incentives awarded for performance 
years 2013 and 2014 to employees receiving allowances were at reduced levels 
and subject to greater deferral requirements, of up to 100% in some cases.Sign-on and Long-Term Retention AwardsStock awards, deferred cash awards and grants of stock options may be made 
at various times during the year as sign-on awards to induce new hires to 
join Citi or to high-potential employees as long-term retention awards.Vesting periods and other terms and conditions pertaining to these awards 
tend to vary by grant. Generally, recipients must remain employed through 

the vesting dates to vest in the awards, except in cases of death, disability or 
involuntary termination other than for ﬁgross misconduct.ﬂ These awards 
do not usually provide for post-employment vesting by retirement-eligible 
participants. Any stock option grants are for Citigroup common stock with 
exercise prices that are no less than the fair market value at the time of grant.Outstanding (Unvested) Stock AwardsA summary of the status of unvested stock awards granted as discretionary 
annual incentive or sign-on and long-term retention awards for the 12 
months ended December 31, 2014, is presented below:Unvested stock awards
SharesWeighted-average
 grant date fair value
 per share
61,136,782$39.71
17,729,49749.65
(2,194,893)41.31Š
(26,666,993)40.94
50,004,393$42.52
163Total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock 
awards, excluding the impact of forfeiture estimates, was $659 million at December 31, 2014. The cost is expected to be recognized over a 
weighted-average period of 0.7 years. However, the value of the portion 

of these awards that is subject to variable accounting will fluctuate with 
changes in Citigroup™s common stock price.
Performance Share UnitsCertain executive officers were awarded a target number of performance 
share units (PSUs) on February 19, 2013, for performance in 2012, and to 
a broader group of executives on February 18, 2014, and February 18, 2015, 
for performance in 2013 and 2014, respectively. PSUs will be earned only 
to the extent that Citigroup attains specified performance goals relating to 
Citigroup™s return on assets and relative total shareholder return against 
peers over the three-year period beginning with the year of award. The actual 
dollar amounts ultimately earned could vary from zero, if performance 
goals are not met, to as much as 150% of target, if performance goals 
are meaningfully exceeded. The value of each PSU is equal to the value 
of one share of Citi common stock. The value of the award will fluctuate 
with changes in Citigroup™s stock price and the attainment of the specified 
performance goals for each award, until it is settled solely in cash after the 
end of the performance period.Stock Option ProgramsStock options have not been granted to Citi™s employees as part of the annual 
incentive award programs since 2009.On February 14, 2011, Citigroup granted options exercisable for approximately 2.9 million shares of Citigroup common stock to certain of 
its executive officers. The options have six-year terms and vested in three 
equal annual installments. The exercise price of the options is $49.10, equal 
to the closing price of a share of Citigroup common stock on the grant date. 
Upon exercise of the options before the fifth anniversary of the grant date, the 
shares received on exercise (net of the amount required to pay taxes and the 
exercise price) are subject to a one-year transfer restriction.The February 14, 2011, grant is the only prior stock option grant that was not fully vested by January 1, 2014, and as a result, is the only grant 
that resulted in an amount of compensation expense in 2014. All other stock 
option grants were fully vested at December 31, 2013, and as a result Citi will 
not incur any future compensation expense related to those grants.164Information with respect to stock option activity under Citigroup™s stock option programs for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 is as follows:2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜OptionsWeighted-
 average exercise
 priceIntrinsic value
 per shareŸ

Ÿ

Outstanding, beginning of period
31,508,106$50.72$1.39˙˙Ž˙˙Ž(28,257)40.80ŠŽŽ(602,093)242.43ŠŽŽ(4,363,637)40.8211.37ŽŽŽOutstanding, end of period
26,514,119$48.00$6.11˙˙˙˙ŽExercisable, end of period
26,514,119The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding under Citigroup™s stock option programs at December 31, 2014:Options outstandingOptions exercisable
Range of exercise prices
Number outstandingWeighted-average
 contractual life remainingWeighted-average
 exercise price
Number exercisable
Weighted-average
 exercise price
25,617,6591.1 years$42.8725,617,659$42.8769,9566.1 years56.7669,95656.76502,4164.0 years147.13502,416147.13124,0883.1 years240.28124,088240.28200,0003.1 years335.50200,000335.50
26,514,1191.2 years$48.0226,514,119$48.02165Profit Sharing PlanThe 2010 Key Employee Profit Sharing Plan (KEPSP) entitled participants to profit-sharing payments calculated with reference to the pretax income of 
Citicorp (as defined in the KEPSP) over a performance measurement period 
of January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2013. Generally, if a participant 
remained employed and all other conditions to vesting and payment were 
satisfied, the participant became entitled to payment. Payments were made in 
cash, except for U.K. participants who, pursuant to regulatory requirements, 
received 50% of their payment in Citigroup common stock that was subject to 
a six-month sale restriction.Independent risk function employees were not eligible to participate in the KEPSP, as the independent risk function participates in the determination of 

whether payouts will be made under the KEPSP. Instead, they were eligible to 

receive deferred cash retention awards.Other Variable Incentive CompensationCitigroup has various incentive plans globally that are used to motivate and 
reward performance primarily in the areas of sales, operational excellence 
and customer satisfaction. Participation in these plans is generally limited to 
employees who are not eligible for discretionary annual incentive awards.SummaryExcept for awards subject to variable accounting, the total expense 
recognized for stock awards represents the grant date fair value of such 
awards, which is generally recognized as a charge to income ratably over the 
vesting period, other than for awards to retirement-eligible employees and 
immediately vested awards. Whenever awards are made or are expected to be 
made to retirement-eligible employees, the charge to income is accelerated 
based on when the applicable conditions to retirement eligibility were or will 
be met. If the employee is retirement eligible on the grant date, or the award 
is vested at grant date, the entire expense is recognized in the year prior 
to grant.Recipients of Citigroup stock awards generally do not have any stockholder rights until shares are delivered upon vesting or exercise, or 
after the expiration of applicable required holding periods. Recipients of 
restricted or deferred stock awards and stock unit awards, however, may be 

entitled to receive dividends or dividend-equivalent payments during the 
vesting period. Recipients of restricted stock awards generally are entitled to 
vote the shares in their award during the vesting period. Once a stock award 
vests, the shares are freely transferable, unless they are subject to a restriction 
on sale or transfer for a specified period. Pursuant to a stock ownership 
commitment, certain executives have committed to holding most of their 
vested shares indefinitely.
All equity awards granted since April 19, 2005, have been made pursuant to stockholder-approved stock incentive plans that are administered by the 

Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors, 
which is composed entirely of independent non-employee directors.At December 31, 2014, approximately 51.6 million shares of Citigroup common stock were authorized and available for grant under Citigroup™s 

2014 Stock Incentive Plan, the only plan from which equity awards are 
currently granted.The 2014 Stock Incentive Plan and predecessor plans permit the use of treasury stock or newly issued shares in connection with awards granted 
under the plans. Newly issued shares were distributed to settle the vesting of 
annual deferred stock awards in January 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. The use 
of treasury stock or newly issued shares to settle stock awards does not affect 
the compensation expense recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income 
for equity awards.Incentive Compensation CostThe following table shows components of compensation expense, relating 
to the above incentive compensation programs, recorded during 2014, 2013 
and 2012:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜

$525˙˙


311˝˜˝
51˘˚

668ˆ˘˜1˛˚
8031Total
$2,360˙˙







Future Expenses Associated with Outstanding (Unvested) Awards
Citi expects to record compensation expense in future periods as a result of 
awards granted for performance in 2014 and years prior. Because the awards 
contain service or other conditions that will be satisfied in the future, the 
expense of these already-granted awards is recognized over those future 
period(s). Citi™s expected future expenses, excluding the impact of forfeitures, 
cancellations, clawbacks and repositioning-related accelerations that have 
not yet occurred, are summarized in the table below. The portion of these 
awards that is subject to variable accounting will cause the expense amount 
to fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price.In millions of dollars˜˚˛˘€†
Total
 (2)™
™
˙˙˙˙˘$659™
˜˝˜˛˜˝˝409

˙˙˙˙$1,068

˙˙˙˛ˆˆ˙$1,042
˙˙˙˝˝˛˙$2,110

ICGš

1668. RETIREMENT BENEFITSPension and Postretirement PlansThe Company has several non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain U.S. employees and has various defined benefit pension and 
termination indemnity plans covering employees outside the United States.The U.S. qualified defined benefit plan was frozen effective January 1, 2008 for most employees. Accordingly, no additional compensation-based 

contributions were credited to the cash balance portion of the plan for 
existing plan participants after 2007. However, certain employees covered 

under the prior final pay plan formula continue to accrue benefits. The 
Company also offers postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to 
certain eligible U.S. retired employees, as well as to certain eligible employees 
outside the United States.The Company also sponsors a number of non-contributory, nonqualified 
pension plans. These plans, which are unfunded, provide supplemental 
defined pension benefits to certain U.S. employees. With the exception 
of certain employees covered under the prior final pay plan formula, the 
benefits under these plans were frozen in prior years.In the second quarter of 2013, the Company changed the method of accounting for its most significant pension and postretirement benefit plans 
(Significant Plans) such that plan obligations, plan assets and periodic 
plan expense are remeasured and disclosed quarterly, instead of annually. 

The Significant Plans captured approximately 80% of the Company™s global 

pension and postretirement plan obligations as of December 31, 2014. All 
other plans (All Other Plans) are remeasured annually with a December 31 
measurement date.Net (Benefit) ExpenseThe following table summarizes the components of net (benefit) expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s U.S. 

qualified and nonqualified pension plans and postretirement plans, and 
pension and postretirement plans outside the United States, for Significant 
Plans and All Other Plans, for the years indicated.Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Qualified plans$6˛˜$178˜˛˚$Š$15
54137633˝˝120(878)šš(384)šš(1)’˜šš(121)’˛˝˝šš

(3)š’˛š1Š’˛š’˛š(12)10577Š39Š˜˛14˛˚ŠŠŠ53˛˝ŠŠ’˛š
Š9˛ŠŠNet qualified plans (benefit) expense
$(229)šš$324˝˜˜$32˝˚$41˛˚˚Nonqualified plans expense
45ŠŠŠ
’˜šŠ’˜˝šŠŠŠ˝Total adjusted net (benefit) expense
$(184)šš$324˝˜˜$32˝˚$41˛˚˝’˛š
’˜š
167ContributionsThe Company™s funding practice for U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is generally to fund to minimum funding requirements in accordance with 
applicable local laws and regulations. The Company may increase its 
contributions above the minimum required contribution, if appropriate. In 
addition, management has the ability to change its funding practices. For the 
U.S. pension plans, there were no required minimum cash contributions for 
2014 or 2013.The following table summarizes the actual Company contributions for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, as well as estimated expected 
Company contributions for 2015. Expected contributions are subject to 
change since contribution decisions are affected by various factors, such as 
market performance and regulatory requirements.Pension plans
 (1)Postretirement plans
 (1)U.S. plans
 (2)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝
$100$130$Š$6
58100566Total Company contributions
$158˛˝˝$230$56$12’˛š
’˜š
The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into 
net expense in 2015 are approximately $245 million and $1 million, 
respectively, for defined benefit pension plans. For postretirement plans, the 

estimated 2015 net actuarial loss and prior service cost amortizations are 
approximately $45 million and $(12) million, respectively.
Funded Status and Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive IncomeThe following table summarizes the funded status and amounts recognized 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Company™s U.S. qualified and 
nonqualified pension plans and postretirement plans, and pension and 
postretirement plans outside the United States.Net Amount RecognizedPension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝Change in projected benefit obligationQualified plans
$12,137$7,194$780$1,411˜‹˚˚˜
ŠšŠŠŠ6178˜˛˚Š15
54137633˝˝120Š2šŠ(14)š2,077š790š184š262š
(701)š(352)š(91)š(93)šŠŠ11˛˝ŠŠ(18)Š(1)Š(184)šŠŠ’˜šŠ˜˝(58)’˜šŠ(3)’˝š
Š9ŠŠŠ(685)šŠ(170)šQualified plans$14,060$7,252$917$1,527Nonqualified plans (3)779ŠŠŠProjected benefit obligation at year end$14,839$7,252$917$1,527’˛š
’˜š‰
’˝š168Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝Change in plan assetsQualified plans
$12,731$6,918$32$1,472
ŠšŠŠ˝Š˜˛9411,108š2’˛š166’˜˜˝š
1002305612Š551ŠŠ(11)ŠŠŠ(184)šŠŠ(701)š(357)’˝˚˜š(131)’˛˜˜š(93)šŠ(652)šŠ(173)šQualified plans$13,071$7,057$10˝˜$1,384Nonqualified plans (2)ŠŠŠŠPlan assets at fair value year end
$13,071$7,057$10˝˜$1,384Funded status of the plansQualified plans (3)$(989)$(195)š$(907)š$(143)Nonqualified plans (2)(779)šŠŠŠFunded status of the plans at year end$(1,768)š$(195)š$(907)š$(143)Net amount recognizedQualified plans$Š$921$Š$196
(989)(1,116)š(907)š(339)šQualified plans$(989)$(195)š$(907)š$(143)Nonqualified plans (2)(779)šŠŠŠNet amount recognized on the balance sheet$(1,768)š$(195)š$(907)š$(143)Amounts recognized in Accumulated other  comprehensive income (loss)Qualified plans
$Š$(1)’˛š$Š$Š’˛š
313’˜šŠ˛157(5,819)š(1,690)š(56)(658)šQualified plans$(5,816)š$(1,678)’˜‹˚˛˚š$(56)˛˝˚$(501)šNonqualified plans (2)(325)šŠŠŠNet amount recognized in equity - pretax$(6,141)š$(1,678)’˜‹˚˛˚š$(56)˛˝˚$(501)šAccumulated benefit obligationQualified plans$14,050˛˜‹˛˜˜$6,699$917$1,527Nonqualified plans (2)771ŠŠŠAccumulated benefit obligation at year end$14,821$6,699$917$1,527’˛š
’˜š’˝š
169The following table shows the change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to Citi™s pension and postretirement 
benefit plans (for Significant Plans and All Other Plans) for the 
years indicated.In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Beginning of period balance, net of tax 
(1)(2)$(3,989)šš
’˝šŠ’˜˜š(3,404)š
833š
202
1367459š
660šChange, net of tax
$(1,170)šEnd of period balance, net of tax 
(1)(2)$(5,159)šš’˛š
Accumulated other 

comprehensive income (loss)’˜š
’˝š

„›ƒ››

At December 31, 2014 and 2013, for both qualified and nonqualified pension plans and for both funded and unfunded plans, the aggregate projected benefit obligation (PBO), the aggregate accumulated benefit 
obligation (ABO), and the aggregate fair value of plan assets are presented 
for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets 
and for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of 
plan assets as follows:PBO exceeds fair value of plan assets
ABO exceeds fair value plan assets
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
 (2)U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
 (2)In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝
$14,839$2,756$14,839$2,570
14,8212,35314,8212,23313,0711,64013,0711,495’˛š

€˙œ›
’˜š

€˙œ‹
At December 31, 2014, combined accumulated benefit obligations for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, excluding U.S. nonqualified plans, 
were more than plan assets by $0.6 billion. At December 31, 2013, combined 
accumulated benefit obligations for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, 
excluding U.S. nonqualified plans, were less than plan assets by $0.9 billion.170Plan AssumptionsThe Company utilizes a number of assumptions to determine plan obligations and expense. Changes in one or a combination of these 
assumptions will have an impact on the Company™s pension and 
postretirement PBO, funded status and benefit expense. Changes in the plans™ 
funded status resulting from changes in the PBO and fair value of plan assets 
will have a corresponding impact on Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss).Certain assumptions used in determining pension and postretirement benefit obligations and net benefit expense for the Company™s plans are 

shown in the following table:At year end2014˜˚˛˝Discount rate„›ƒ›
’˛š4.00%3.903.80
’˜š1.00 to 32.50¡
4.74
’˜š2.25 to 12.00¡
7.50Future compensation increase rate„›ƒ›
’˝šN/A—ﬁ€
1.00 to 30.00¡
3.27Expected return on assets
„›ƒ›
7.00
1.30 to 11.50¡
5.08
8.50 to 10.40¡
8.51’˛š†˘















’˜š†˘
















’˝š







During the year2014˜˚˛˝Discount rate„›ƒ›
’˛š4.75%/4.55 4.25%/4.25%/
%
4.754.35/4.15 
3.95/4.00/ﬁ
1.60 to 29.25¡
’˜š5.60
3.50 to 11.90¡
’˜š8.65Future compensation increase rate„›ƒ›
’˝šN/A—ﬁ€
1.00 to 26.00¡
’˜š3.40Expected return on assets
„›ƒ›
7.00
1.20 to 11.50¡
’˜š5.68
8.50 to 8.90¡
’˜š8.50’˛š


›

›
’˜š

›



›
’˝š







171Discount RateThe discount rates for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans were selected 
by reference to a Citigroup-specific analysis using each plan™s specific 
cash flows and compared with high-quality corporate bond indices for 
reasonableness. Citigroup™s policy is to round to the nearest five hundredths 
of a percent. The discount rates for the non-U.S. pension and postretirement 
plans are selected by reference to high-quality corporate bond rates in 
countries that have developed corporate bond markets. However, where 
developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected 
by reference to local government bond rates with a premium added to reflect 
the additional risk for corporate bonds in certain countries.Expected Rate of ReturnThe Company determines its assumptions for the expected rate of return 
on plan assets for its U.S. pension and postretirement plans using a 
ﬁbuilding blockﬂ approach, which focuses on ranges of anticipated rates 
of return for each asset class. A weighted average range of nominal rates 
is then determined based on target allocations to each asset class. Market 
performance over a number of earlier years is evaluated covering a wide 
range of economic conditions to determine whether there are sound reasons 
for projecting any past trends.The Company considers the expected rate of return to be a long-term assessment of return expectations and does not anticipate changing this 
assumption unless there are significant changes in investment strategy 
or economic conditions. This contrasts with the selection of the discount 
rate and certain other assumptions, which are reconsidered annually 
(or quarterly for the Significant Plans) in accordance with GAAP.
The expected rate of return for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans was 7.00% at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. The expected return on 
assets reflects the expected annual appreciation of the plan assets and reduces 
the Company™s annual pension expense. The expected return on assets is 

deducted from the sum of service cost, interest cost and other components of 
pension expense to arrive at the net pension (benefit) expense. Net pension 
(benefit) expense for the U.S. pension plans for 2014, 2013 and 2012 reflects 
deductions of $878 million, $863 million and $897 million of expected 
returns, respectively.
The following table shows the expected rates of return used in determining the Company™s pension expense compared to the actual rate of 

return on plan assets during 2014, 2013 and 2012 for the U.S. pension and 
postretirement plans:2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜
’˛š7.00%
’˜š7.80%˛˛›˚˚’˛š†˘
’˜š
For the non-U.S. plans, pension expense for 2014 was reduced by the expected return of $384 million, compared with the actual return of 
$1,108 million. Pension expense for 2013 and 2012 was reduced by expected 
returns of $396 million and $399 million, respectively. Actual returns were 

lower in 2013, but higher in 2014 and 2012 than the expected returns in 
those years.Mortality TablesAt December 31, 2014, the Company adopted the Retirement Plan 2014 
(RP-2014) and Mortality Projection 2014 (MP-2014) mortality tables for 
U.S. plans.2014˜˚˛˝Mortality„›ƒ›
’˛š’˜š’˛š


’˜š



€€›
Adjustments were made to the RP-2014 tables and to the long-term rate of mortality improvement to reflect Citigroup specific experience. As a result, 
the U.S. qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement plans™ PBO 
at December 31, 2014 increased by $1,209 million and its funded status and 
AOCI decreased by $1,209 million ($737 million, net of tax). In addition, the 
2015 qualified and nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit expense 
is expected to increase by approximately $73 million.Sensitivities of Certain Key AssumptionsThe following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-
percentage-point change in the discount rate:
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜„›ƒ›
$28
(39)šš
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜„›ƒ›
$(45)šš
56172Since the U.S. qualified pension plan was frozen, the majority of the prospective service cost has been eliminated and the gain/loss amortization period was changed to the life expectancy for inactive participants. As a 
result, pension expense for the U.S. qualified pension plan is driven more 
by interest costs than service costs, and an increase in the discount rate 
would increase pension expense, while a decrease in the discount rate would 
decrease pension expense.The following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-percentage-point change in the expected rates of return:One-percentage-point increaseIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜„›ƒ›
$(129)’˛˜˝š’˛˜˚š
(67)ššOne-percentage-point decreaseIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜„›ƒ›
$129˛˜˝˛˜˚
67Health Care Cost-Trend Rate
Assumed health care cost-trend rates were as follows:2014˜˚˛˝Health care cost increase rate for U.S. plans
7.50%
5.00¢
’˛š2020˜˚˜˚’˛š¡
2014˜˚˛˝Health care cost increase rate for Non-U.S. plans 
 (weighted average)6.94%
6.93¢
2027A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost-trend rates would have the following effects:One-percentage- point increaseOne- percentage- point decreaseIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝†˘

$2˛$(1)’˛š†˘

40(34)šOne- percentage- point increaseOne- percentage- point decreaseIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝†˘
˘
$17$(14)š†˘

197(161)š173Plan AssetsCitigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ asset allocations for the U.S. plans at December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the target allocations for 2015 by 
asset category based on asset fair values, are as follows:Target asset
 allocationU.S. pension assets
 at December 31,U.S. postretirement assets
 at December 31,Asset category 
(1)2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝’˜š20%20%4444
44
8˛˛8˛˛24˜˝24˜˝Total
100%˛˚˚100%˛˚˚’˛š‹‹
›
’˜š
Third-party investment managers and advisors provide their services to Citigroup™s U.S. pension and postretirement plans. Assets are rebalanced as 
Citi™s Pension Plan Investment Committee deems appropriate. Citigroup™s 

investment strategy, with respect to its assets, is to maintain a globally 

diversified investment portfolio across several asset classes that, when 
combined with Citigroup™s contributions to the plans, will maintain the 

plans™ ability to meet all required benefit obligations.Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ weighted-average asset 
allocations for the non-U.S. plans and the actual ranges at the end of 2014 
and 2013, and the weighted-average target allocations for 2015 by asset 
category based on asset fair values are as follows:Non-U.S. pension plans
Weighted-average
 target asset allocationActual range at December 31,Weighted-average
 at December 31,Asset category 
(1)2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝0 - 67%17%˜˚0 - 10077
˛0 - 21Š˛0 - 1006Total
˛˚˚100%˛˚˚Non-U.S. postretirement plans
Weighted-average
 target asset allocationActual range at December 31,Weighted-average
 at December 31,Asset category 
(1)2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝0 - 42%42%54 - 10054˝0 - 44Total
˛˚˚100%˛˚˚’˛š‹
174Fair Value DisclosureFor information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methodology 
utilized by the Company, see Note 1 and Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Certain investments may transfer between the fair value hierarchy classifications during the year due to changes in valuation methodology and 
pricing sources. There were no significant transfers of investments between 
Level 1 and Level 2 during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013.Plan assets by detailed asset categories and the fair value hierarchy are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
 (1)Fair value measurement at December 31, 2014
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3Total
„›ƒ›
$773$Š$Š$773
601ŠŠ601214ŠŠ214Š939Š939„›ƒ›‰
1,178ŠŠ1,178„›ƒ›
Š113Š113„›ƒ›
Š1,533Š1,533
Š357Š357
Š405Š405
Š132Š132Š2,4627313,193Š41Š41
Š76Š76ŠŠ5959
ŠŠ1,6311,631
12637Š649Š101260361‰
$2,778$6,796$2,681$12,255$111$1,287$Š$1,398
Š283563Total assets
$2,889$8,111$2,716$13,716
$(17)$(618)$Š$(635)Total net assets
$2,872$7,493$2,716$13,081’˛š

›
175In millions of dollars„›ƒ›
’˛š
Asset categories‰
„›ƒ›

˜˚˝˜˚˝„›ƒ›‰
˛‹˛˛˜˛‹˛˛˜„›ƒ›
„›ƒ›



˜‹˛˝˜


‰

˛˚˛Total assets

šššTotal net assets
’˛š
›
176In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Fair value measurement at December 31, 2014
Asset categoriesLevel 1
Level 2
Level 3Total
„›ƒ›
$6$15$Š$21
86271454022073,334Š3,5411025Š35„›ƒ›
Š357Š357
3,29324613,540
1038115919ŠŠ1010
Š1Š1Š13233
11ŠŠ11713163183‰
$3,723$5,074$256$9,053$112$2$Š$114Total assets
$3,835$5,076$256$9,167
$(3)$(723)$Š$(726)Total net assets
$3,832$4,353$256$8,441In millions of dollars

Asset categories‰
„›ƒ›
˛˝
˜˜„›ƒ›

˜˝˜
˛˛˛˛
˝˛˛˝˜˝˝
˛˜˜˚˜˜˜˛‰
Total assets

ššTotal net assets
177Level 3 Roll ForwardThe reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances during the year for Level 3 assets are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2013
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in
 and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2014
ššš$731’˛š’˝˛š59
šš1,631’˛šš260Total investments
˝˚˝ššš$2,681
š35Total assets
˝˚˝ššš$2,716In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2012
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2013
š˛˝˚š’˝˝š˝
’˛˚šš’˝ššTotal investments
šš
Total assets
ššIn millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2013
Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2014

’˝š’˛š$45
˛1
˛’˛š5˛˛’˛š10˝˜32˜˚˜’˛š’˝˝šš163Total investments
š’˝˜šš$256Š‰
š’˝˜šš$256In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2012
Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, 
sales, and 
issuancesTransfers in 
and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at 
Dec. 31, 2013

š
š
’˛š˜˛š˛˛˝’˛š˝˜˝’˜˚š˜˚˜Total investments
’˜šš˝’˝šTotal assets
˝˚˚’˜šš178Investment StrategyThe Company™s global pension and postretirement funds™ investment strategies are to invest in a prudent manner for the exclusive purpose of 
providing benefits to participants. The investment strategies are targeted 
to produce a total return that, when combined with the Company™s 
contributions to the funds, will maintain the funds™ ability to meet all 
required benefit obligations. Risk is controlled through diversification 
of asset types and investments in domestic and international equities, 
fixed-income securities and cash and short-term investments. The target 
asset allocation in most locations outside the U.S. is primarily in equity 
and debt securities. These allocations may vary by geographic region and 
country depending on the nature of applicable obligations and various other 
regional considerations. The wide variation in the actual range of plan 
asset allocations for the funded non-U.S. plans is a result of differing local 
statutory requirements and economic conditions. For example, in certain 
countries local law requires that all pension plan assets must be invested in 
fixed-income investments, government funds, or local-country securities.Significant Concentrations of Risk in Plan AssetsThe assets of the Company™s pension plans are diversified to limit the impact 
of any individual investment. The U.S. qualified pension plan is diversified 
across multiple asset classes, with publicly traded fixed income, hedge funds, 
publicly traded equity, and private equity representing the most significant 
asset allocations. Investments in these four asset classes are further diversified 
across funds, managers, strategies, vintages, sectors and geographies, 
depending on the specific characteristics of each asset class. The pension 
assets for the Company™s non U.S. Significant Plans are primarily invested in 
publicly traded fixed income and publicly traded equity securities.179Oversight and Risk Management PracticesThe framework for the Company™s pensions oversight process includes monitoring of retirement plans by plan fiduciaries and/or management 
at the global, regional or country level, as appropriate. Independent risk 
management contributes to the risk oversight and monitoring for the 
Company™s U.S. qualified pension plan and non-U.S. Significant Pension 
Plans. Although the specific components of the oversight process are tailored 
to the requirements of each region, country and plan, the following elements 
are common to the Company™s monitoring and risk management process:periodic asset/liability management studies and strategic asset 
allocation reviews;



performance against benchmarks; and
Estimated Future Benefit PaymentsThe Company expects to pay the following estimated benefit payments in future years:Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
In millions of dollarsU.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
Prescription DrugsIn December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and 
Modernization Act of 2003 (Act of 2003) was enacted. The Act of 2003 
established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare known as ﬁMedicare 
Part D,ﬂ and a federal subsidy to sponsors of U.S. retiree health care benefit 
plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare 
Part D. The benefits provided to certain participants are at least actuarially 
equivalent to Medicare Part D and, accordingly, the Company is entitled to 
a subsidy.The subsidy reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) by approximately $5 million as of December 31, 2014 and $4 million 
as of December 31, 2013 and the postretirement expense by approximately 
$0.2 million and $3 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. The reduction in 

the impact on expense was due to the Company™s adoption of the Employee 

Group Waiver Plan during 2013, as described below.
The following table shows the estimated future benefit payments without the effect of the subsidy and the amounts of the expected subsidy in 
future years:Expected U.S. postretirement benefit paymentsIn millions of dollarsBefore Medicare Part D subsidy
Medicare Part D subsidy
After Medicare Part D subsidy
˜Certain provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 improved the Medicare Part D option known as the Employer Group 
Waiver Plan (EGWP) with respect to the Medicare Part D subsidy. The 

EGWP provides prescription drug benefits that are more cost effective for 
Medicare-eligible participants and large employers. Effective April 1, 2013, 
the Company began sponsoring and implementing an EGWP for eligible 
retirees. The Company subsidy received under EGWP during 2014 and 2013 
was $11.0 million and $10.5 million, respectively.
The other provisions of the Act of 2010 are not expected to have a significant impact on Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans.
180Postemployment PlansThe Company sponsors U.S. postemployment plans that provide income continuation and health and welfare benefits to certain eligible U.S. 
employees on long-term disability.As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the plans™ funded status recognized in the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet was $(256) million and 

$(252) million, respectively. The amounts recognized in 
Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 
were $24 million and $46 million, respectively. Effective January 1, 2014, the 

Company made changes to its postemployment plans that limit the period 
for which future disabled employees are eligible for continued company 
subsidized medical benefits.The following table summarizes the components of net expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s U.S. 

postemployment plans.Net expense
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Service related expense

$Š˜˚˜˜5˛˚˛˝
(31)’˝š14˛˝Total service related expense
$(12)Non-service related expense (benefit)
$37šTotal net expense
$25˝˚The following table summarizes certain assumptions used in determining the postemployment benefit obligations and net benefit expenses for the Company™s U.S. postemployment plans.
2014˜˚˛˝Discount rate3.45%Health care cost increase rate7.50%
5.00¢
2020˜˚˜˚Early Retiree Reinsurance ProgramThe Company participates in the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program 
(ERRP), which provides federal government reimbursement to eligible 
employers to cover a portion of the health benefit costs associated with 
early retirees. Of the $8 million the Company received in reimbursements, 
approximately $3 million and $5 million were used to reduce the health 
benefit costs for certain eligible employees for the years ended December 31, 
2013 and 2012, respectively.Defined Contribution PlansThe Company sponsors defined contribution plans in the U.S. and in certain 
non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered in accordance with 
local laws. The most significant defined contribution plan is the Citigroup 
401(k) Plan sponsored by the Company in the U.S.Under the Citigroup 401(k) Plan, eligible U.S. employees received matching contributions of up to 6% of their eligible compensation for 2014 
and 2013, subject to statutory limits. Additionally, for eligible employees 

whose eligible compensation is $100,000 or less, a fixed contribution of 
up to 2% of eligible compensation is provided. All Company contributions 
are invested according to participants™ individual elections. The pretax 
expense associated with this plan amounted to approximately $383 million, 
$394 million and $384 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
1819. INCOME TAXESDetails of the Company™s income tax provision for the years ended December 31 are presented in the table below:Income TaxesIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Current$181šš3,281
388š˝˚˚Total current income taxes
$3,850Deferred
$2,184š361š
469šTotal deferred income taxes
$3,014šProvision (benefit) for income tax 
on continuing operations before non-controlling interests (1)$6,864

12šš

Šš

65šš1,007’˛‹˝˚˚š(87)
207˝˛˛(660)š’˜š(353)Income taxes before non-controlling interests$7,055š’˛š


›
’˜š
Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the Company™s 
effective income tax rate applicable to income from continuing operations 
(before non-controlling interests and the cumulative effect of accounting 
changes) for the years ended December 31 was as follows:2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Federal statutory rate
35.0%
3.5˝›˚
(0.9)’˜›˜šš’˛š(2.4)šš†˘
’˜š1.2’˚›˝š’˚›˛š
18.7˚›˜
(2.5)š‰
(5.2)šš‹
0.4’˚›˛šEffective income tax rate47.8%˝˚›˛˚›˛’˛š

¢


¢
’˜š¢


As set forth in the table above, Citi™s effective tax rate for 2014 was 47.8%, 
which included a tax benefit of $347 million for the resolution of certain tax 
items during the year. This was higher than the effective tax rate for 2013 

of 30.1% due primarily to the effect of the level of non-deductible legal and 
related expenses on the comparably lower level of pretax income in 2014. 
Also included in 2013 is a $127 million tax benefit related to the resolution of 
certain tax audit items during that year.
In addition, as previously disclosed, during 2013, Citi decided that earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries would no longer be indefinitely 
reinvested outside the U.S. (as asserted under ASC 740, Income Taxes
). This decision increased Citi™s 2014 and 2013 tax provisions on these foreign 

subsidiary earnings to the higher U.S. tax rate and thus increased Citi™s 

effective tax rate for 2014 and 2013 and reduced its after-tax earnings. 

For additional information on Citi™s foreign earnings, see ﬁForeign 

Earningsﬂ below.
182Deferred Income TaxesDeferred income taxes at December 31 related to the following:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Deferred tax assets$7,010
4,676
1,599
6,368
4,979
529‰
23,3952,0932,334$52,983§
ŠDeferred tax assets after valuation allowance
$52,983Deferred tax liabilities
$(415)š
(1,636)š(866)š
(559)š
$(3,476)šNet deferred tax assets$49,507Unrecognized Tax BenefitsThe following is a roll-forward of the Company™s unrecognized tax benefits.In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Total unrecognized tax benefits at January 1
$1,574
135
175
(772)šš
(28)šš
(30)š’˝š
6˜’˜šTotal unrecognized tax benefits at December 31
$1,060The total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 that, if recognized, would affect Citi™s effective tax rate, 

are $0.8 billion, $0.8 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. The remaining 

uncertain tax positions have offsetting amounts in other jurisdictions or are 
temporary differences, except for $0.4 billion at December 31, 2013, which 
was recognized in Retained earnings in 2014.Interest and penalties (not included in ﬁunrecognized tax benefitsﬂ  above) are a component of the Provision for income taxes.2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜In millions of dollarsPretaxNet of tax‰
$277$173‰
(1)(1)šš‰
’˛š269169’˛š›
As of December 31, 2014, Citi is under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and other major taxing jurisdictions around the world. It is thus 
reasonably possible that significant changes in the gross balance of 
unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, although 
Citi does not expect such audits to result in amounts that would cause a 
significant change to its effective tax rate, other than as discussed below.
Citi expects to conclude its IRS audit for the 2012-2013 cycle within the next 12 months. The gross uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2014 
for the items that may be resolved are as much as $120 million. Because of 
the number and nature of the issues remaining to be resolved, the potential 
tax benefit to continuing operations could be anywhere in a range between 
$0 to $120 million. In addition, Citi may conclude certain state and local 
tax audits within the next 12 months. The gross uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2014 are as much as $214 million. In addition, there 
is gross interest of as much as $146 million. The potential tax benefit to 
continuing operations could be anywhere between $0 and $230 million, 
including interest.183The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate and the earliest tax year subject to examination:JurisdictionTax year

˜˚˛˜¢
˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˚
˜˚˛˚Foreign EarningsForeign pretax earnings approximated $10.1 billion in 2014, $13.1 
billion in 2013 (of which $0.1 billion was in Discontinued operations) and $14.7 billion in 2012. As a U.S. corporation, Citigroup and its U.S. 
subsidiaries are subject to U.S. taxation on all foreign pretax earnings earned 
by a foreign branch. Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary or affiliate are 
subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. The Company provides 
income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries except 
to the extent that such earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the 
United States.At December 31, 2014, $43.8 billion of accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries was indefinitely invested. At the existing 
U.S. federal income tax rate, additional taxes (net of U.S. foreign tax 
credits) of $11.6 billion would have to be provided if such earnings were 
remitted currently. The current year™s effect on the income tax expense 

from continuing operations is included in the ﬁForeign income tax rate 
differentialﬂ line in the reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the 
Company™s effective income tax rate in the table above.
Income taxes are not provided for the Company™s ﬁsavings bank base year 
bad debt reservesﬂ that arose before 1988, because under current U.S. tax 
rules, such taxes will become payable only to the extent such amounts are 
distributed in excess of limits prescribed by federal law. At December 31, 2014, 

the amount of the base year reserves totaled approximately $358 million 
(subject to a tax of $125 million).Deferred Tax Assets
As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, Citi had no valuation allowance on 
its DTAs.In billions of dollarsJurisdiction/componentDTAs balance 
December 31, 2014
™‰
˝˛‹˜˚˛˝
U.S. federal 
(1)
’˜š$2.3’˝š17.61.621.3Total U.S. federal
$42.8State and local¢
$1.5
0.42.0Total state and local
$3.9Foreign

$0.2˚›˜
0.5˛›˜2.1˜›˛Total foreign
$2.8Total
$49.5’˛š



’˜š





˜˚˛˝‹‹
’˝š‹


184The following table summarizes the amounts of tax carry-forwards and their expiration dates as of December 31, 2014 and 2013:In billions of dollarsYear of expiration
December 31, 2014˜˚˛˝U.S. tax return foreign tax credit 
carry-forwards
$1.95.21.2˛›˜˜˚˜˚3.1˝›˛˜˚˜˛1.8˜˚˜˜3.4˝›˝’˛š1.0Total U.S. tax return foreign tax credit 
carry-forwards
$17.6U.S. tax return general business credit 
carry-forwards
$ŠŠ˜˚˝˚0.4˜˚˝˛0.3˜˚˝˜0.4˜˚˝˝0.30.2Total U.S. tax return general business credit 
carry-forwards
$1.6U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL 
carry-forwards
$0.2˚›˜0.1˚›˛˜˚˝˚0.3˚›˝˜˚˝˛1.7˜˚˝˝1.92.3Total U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL 
carry-forwards 
(2)$6.5New York State NOL carry-forwards
$Š˚›˛Š˜˚˝˚Š˜›˚˜˚˝˛Š˚›˛˜˚˝˜Š˜˚˝˝Š12.3Total New York State NOL carry-forwards 
(2)$12.3New York City NOL carry-forwards

$Š˚›˛3.8Š˜˚˝˛0.1˜˚˝˜0.5Total New York City NOL carry-forwards 
(2)$4.4APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards

§
$0.2˚›˜Total APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards
$0.2˚›˜’˛š

’˜šWhile Citi™s net total DTAs decreased year-over-year, the time remaining 
for utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with 
respect to the FTC component of the DTAs. Realization of the DTAs will 

continue to be driven by Citi™s ability to generate U.S. taxable earnings in the 

carry-forward periods, including through actions that optimize Citi™s U.S. 

taxable earnings.Although realization is not assured, Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $49.5 billion at December 31, 2014 is more-

likely-than-not based upon expectations as to future taxable income in the 
jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies 

(as defined in ASC 740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if 
necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. In general, Citi would 

need to generate approximately $81 billion of U.S. taxable income during the 
FTC carry-forward periods to prevent this most time-sensitive component of 
Citi™s DTAs from expiring. Citi™s net DTAs will decline primarily as additional 

domestic GAAP taxable income is generated.Citi has concluded that two components of positive evidence support the full realizability of its DTAs. First, Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. taxable income 

in the carry-forward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax planning strategies. 
Citi™s forecasted taxable income, which will continue to be subject to overall 

market and global economic conditions, incorporates geographic business 
forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those forecasts (e.g., U.S. 
tax-exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. tax reporting in 
subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. taxable earnings.Second, Citi has sufficient tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward 

from expiring. These strategies include: repatriating low-taxed foreign source 
earnings for which an assertion that the earnings have been indefinitely 
reinvested has not been made; accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or 
deferring U.S. tax deductions out of, the latter years of the carry-forward 
period (e.g., selling appreciated assets, electing straight-line depreciation); 
accelerating deductible temporary differences outside the U.S.; and selling 
certain assets that produce tax-exempt income, while purchasing assets that 
produce fully taxable income. In addition, the sale or restructuring of certain 
businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable income within the relevant 
carry-forward periods.185Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city NOL carry-forward period of 20 years provides enough 
time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing NOL carry-forwards 

and any NOL that would be created by the reversal of the future net 
deductions that have not yet been taken on a tax return.The U.S. FTC carry-forward period is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. Utilization of FTCs in any year is 

restricted to 35% of foreign source taxable income in that year. However, 

overall domestic losses that Citi has incurred of approximately $59 billion as 
of December 31, 2014 are allowed to be reclassified as foreign source income 
to the extent of 50% of domestic source income produced in subsequent 
years. Such resulting foreign source income would cover the FTCs being 
carried forward. As such, Citi believes the foreign source taxable income 
limitation will not be an impediment to the FTC carry-forward usage, as long 
as Citi can generate sufficient domestic taxable income within the 10-year 
carry-forward period.As noted in the tables above, Citi™s FTC carry-forwards were $17.6 billion 
as of December 31, 2014, compared to $19.6 billion as of December 31, 
2013. This decrease represented $2.0 billion of the $3.3 billion decrease in 
Citi™s overall DTAs during 2014. Citi believes that it will generate sufficient 

U.S. taxable income within the 10-year carry-forward period referenced 
above to be able to fully utilize the FTC carry-forward, in addition to 
any FTCs produced in such period, which must be used prior to any 
carry-forward utilization.18610. EARNINGS PER SHAREThe following is a reconciliation of the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) computations for the years ended December 31:In millions, except per-share amounts
2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Income from continuing operations before attribution of noncontrolling interests$7,500˙˛˝ˆˇ˝˚˙
185˜˜˘Net income from continuing operations (for EPS purposes)$7,315˙˙
(2)˜˘˚“Citigroup™s net income
$7,313˙˛˝ˆˇ˘˝˙
†˛“511˜ˇNet income available to common shareholders
$6,802˙˙

111˜ˇ˝˛ˇˇNet income allocated to common shareholders for basic EPS$6,691˙˛˝ˆ˜˛ˇ˙



Š˛˛˛Net income allocated to common shareholders for diluted EPS$6,691˙˛˝ˆ˜˛˘˙˘ˆ˝ˇ˚Weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to basic EPS
3,031.6
−
†˜“Š”†˝“5.1”0.3˚›ˇŠ”˚›˛Adjusted weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to diluted EPS3,037.0Basic earnings per share (5)
$2.21˙˙
Š†˚›˚˜“Net income$2.21˙˙Diluted earnings per share (5)
$2.20˙˙
Š†˚›˚˜“Net income$2.20˙˙†˛“
†˜“−

−
†˝“‡ˆ

‡ˆ
Ł−−

‡›



18711. FEDERAL FUNDS, SECURITIES BORROWED, 
LOANED AND SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE AGREEMENTSFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the 
following at December 31:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝$Š˙˜˚
123,979
118,591Total
$242,570˙Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchase, at their respective carrying values, consisted of 
the following at December 31:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝$334˙
147,204
25,900Total
$173,438˙The resale and repurchase agreements represent collateralized financing transactions. The Company executes these transactions primarily through its 
broker-dealer subsidiaries to facilitate customer matched-book activity and 

to efficiently fund a portion of the Company™s trading inventory. Transactions 

executed by the Company™s bank subsidiaries primarily facilitate customer 

financing activity.
It is the Company™s policy to take possession of the underlying collateral, 
monitor its market value relative to the amounts due under the agreements 
and, when necessary, require prompt transfer of additional collateral in order 

to maintain contractual margin protection. Collateral typically consists of 
government and government-agency securities, corporate and municipal 
bonds, equities, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities.The resale and repurchase agreements are generally documented under industry standard agreements that allow the prompt close-out of all 
transactions (including the liquidation of securities held) and the offsetting 
of obligations to return cash or securities by the non-defaulting party, 

following a payment default or other type of default under the relevant 
master agreement. Events of default generally include (i) failure to deliver 
cash or securities as required under the transaction, (ii) failure to provide 
or return cash or securities as used for margining purposes, (iii) breach 
of representation, (iv) cross-default to another transaction entered into 
among the parties, or, in some cases, their affiliates, and (v)
 a repudiation 
of obligations under the agreement. The counterparty that receives the 
securities in these transactions is generally unrestricted in its use of the 
securities, with the exception of transactions executed on a tri-party basis, 
where the collateral is maintained by a custodian and operational limitations 

may restrict its use of the securities.A substantial portion of the resale and repurchase agreements is recorded at fair value, as described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The remaining portion is carried at the amount of cash 
initially advanced or received, plus accrued interest, as specified in the 
respective agreements.The securities borrowing and lending agreements also represent collateralized financing transactions similar to the resale and repurchase 
agreements. Collateral typically consists of government and government-
agency securities and corporate debt and equity securities.Similar to the resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and lending agreements are generally documented under industry standard 
agreements that allow the prompt close-out of all transactions (including 
the liquidation of securities held) and the offsetting of obligations to return 
cash or securities by the non-defaulting party, following a payment default 

or other default by the other party under the relevant master agreement. 
Events of default and rights to use securities under the securities borrowing 
and lending agreements are similar to the resale and repurchase agreements 
referenced above.A substantial portion of securities borrowing and lending agreements is recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received. The remaining portion 
is recorded at fair value as the Company elected the fair value option for 
certain securities borrowed and loaned portfolios, as described in Note 26 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. With respect to securities loaned, 
the Company receives cash collateral in an amount generally in excess 
of the market value of the securities loaned. The Company monitors the 
market value of securities borrowed and securities loaned on a daily basis 
and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain contractual 
margin protection.The enforceability of offsetting rights incorporated in the master netting agreements for resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing 
and lending agreements is evidenced to the extent that a supportive legal 
opinion has been obtained from counsel of recognized standing that 
provides the requisite level of certainty regarding the enforceability of these 
agreements, and that the exercise of rights by the non-defaulting party to 
terminate and close-out transactions on a net basis under these agreements 
will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law upon an event of default 
including bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding.
A legal opinion may not have been sought or obtained for certain jurisdictions where local law is silent or sufficiently ambiguous to determine 
the enforceability of offsetting rights or where adverse case law or conflicting 
regulation may cast doubt on the enforceability of such rights. In some 
jurisdictions and for some counterparty types, the insolvency law for a 
particular counterparty type may be nonexistent or unclear as overlapping 
regimes may exist. For example, this may be the case for certain sovereigns, 
municipalities, central banks and U.S. pension plans.188The following tables present the gross and net resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending agreements and the related offsetting amount permitted under ASC 210-20-45, as of December 31, 2014 
and December 31, 2013. The tables also include amounts related to financial 
instruments that are not permitted to be offset under ASC 210-20-45 but would be eligible for offsetting to the extent that an event of default occurred 
and a legal opinion supporting enforceability of the offsetting rights has 
been obtained. Remaining exposures continue to be secured by financial 
collateral, but the Company may not have sought or been able to obtain a 
legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the offsetting right.As of December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsGross amounts of recognized assetsGross amounts offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (1)Net amounts of assets included on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet (2)Amounts not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but eligible for offsetting upon counterparty default
 (3)Net amounts (4)
$180,318$56,339$123,979$94,353$29,626
118,591Š118,59115,139103,452Total
$298,909$56,339$242,570$109,492$133,078 In millions of dollarsGross amounts of recognized liabilitiesGross amounts offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (1)Net amounts of liabilities included 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (2)Amounts not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but eligible for offsetting upon counterparty default
 (3)Net amounts (4)
$203,543$56,339$147,204$72,928$74,276
25,900Š25,9005,19020,710Total
$229,443$56,339$173,104$78,118$94,986
In millions of dollars






˙˙˙˙˙
”−
˙˝˚˚ˆ˜ˇ˜˙˙˙˙ In millions of dollars








˙˙˙˙˙
”−
˙˙˙˜˚˜ˆˇ˚˜˙˙†˛“
†˜“
†˝“



18912. BROKERAGE RECEIVABLES AND BROKERAGE PAYABLESThe Company has receivables and payables for financial instruments sold 
to and purchased from brokers, dealers and customers, which arise in the 
ordinary course of business. The Company is exposed to risk of loss from the 
inability of brokers, dealers or customers to pay for purchases or to deliver the 
financial instruments sold, in which case the Company would have to sell or 
purchase the financial instruments at prevailing market prices. Credit risk 
is reduced to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization acts as a 
counterparty to the transaction and replaces the broker, dealer or customer 
in question.The Company seeks to protect itself from the risks associated with customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral 
in compliance with regulatory and internal guidelines. Margin levels are 
monitored daily, and customers deposit additional collateral as required. 

Where customers cannot meet collateral requirements, the Company will 
liquidate sufficient underlying financial instruments to bring the customer 
into compliance with the required margin level.Exposure to credit risk is impacted by market volatility, which may impair 
the ability of clients to satisfy their obligations to the Company. Credit limits 

are established and closely monitored for customers and for brokers and 
dealers engaged in forwards, futures and other transactions deemed to be 
credit sensitive.Brokerage receivables and Brokerage payables consisted of the following at December 31:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝
$10,380˙
18,039Total brokerage receivables
 (1)$28,419˙
$33,984˙
18,196Total brokerage payables
 (1)$52,180˙
13. TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS AND LIABILITIESTrading account assets and Trading account liabilities are carried at fair 
value, other than physical commodities accounted for at the lower of cost or 
fair value, and consist of the following at December 31, 2014 and 2013:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Trading account assets

Œ›ƒ›
$27,053˙1,271709˘˜˛1,382˛ˆ˜˛˛
1,476˘˜˝4,343−
$36,234˙˝˚ˆˇ˚ˇŒ›ƒ›−
Œ›ƒ›−‡
$18,906˙
1,568˛ˆ˝˚˚−−
$20,474˙
$3,402˙˝ˆ˜˚˘66,274
26,460
67,95757,846ˇ˛ˆ˘˘ˇ4,54613,593Total trading account assets
$296,786˙Trading account liabilities


$70,944˙
68,092Total trading account liabilities
$139,036˙†˛“
‡ﬂ






†˜“



†˝“




19014. INVESTMENTSOverviewDecember 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝
$300,143˙
23,921
2,758
6,621Total investments
$333,443˙†˛“
†˜“
†˝“›
The following table presents interest and dividends on investments for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜−
$6,311˙˙
439˘˝˜445˝˝˝Total interest and dividends
$7,195˙˙The following table presents realized gains and losses on the sale of investments for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. The 
gross realized investment losses exclude losses from other-than-temporary 

impairment (OTTI):In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜$1,020˙˛ˆˇ˚ˇ˙˝ˆˇˇ˝(450)““Net realized gains on sale of investments$570˙˙The Company has sold certain debt securities that were classified as HTM. These sales were in response to significant deterioration in the 
creditworthiness of the issuers or securities. In addition, other securities were 
reclassified to AFS investments in response to significant credit deterioration 
or because a substantial portion of the securities™ principal outstanding at acquisition has been collected. Because the Company generally intends to sell 
the securities, Citi recorded OTTI on the securities. The following table sets 
forth, for the periods indicated, gain (loss) on HTM securities sold, securities 
reclassified to AFS and OTTI recorded on AFS securities reclassified.In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜
$8˙˙˜ˆ˛˛˚Š““⁄™ƒ
889⁄™ƒ
(25)““191Securities Available-for-SaleThe amortized cost and fair value of AFS securities at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:2014˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsAmortized costGross unrealized gains (1)Gross unrealized losses (1)Fair
 value
Debt securities AFS
Œ›ƒ›
$35,647$603$159$36,091˙˙˙˙12ŠŠ12˝˝˜˝˝˜431Š44˛˚”ŠŠŠŠ˛˜””˛˜
8,2476778,307˛˚ˆ˚ˇ˘55163554ˇ−
$44,500$677$169$45,008˙˙˙˙Œ›ƒ›−
Œ›ƒ›−‡
$110,492$353$127$110,718˙˙˙˙
12,925601312,972˛˜˝ˇ˘−−
$123,417$413$140$123,690˙˙˙˙
$13,526$150$977$12,699˙˜˚ˆ˘ˇ˛˙˙˙90,24973428690,697
12,0332159112,157˜˛˚˛˛ˆ˛˝˚12,534305812,506˛˜˚661ŠŠ661˘˛˚˛”˘˛˛−⁄™ƒ
$296,920$2,219$1,721$297,418˙˙˙˙⁄™ƒ
$2,461$308$44$2,725˙˙˙˙Total securities AFS
$299,381$2,527$1,765$300,143˙˙˙˙†˛“
˝˛ˆ‡›
†˜“‡ﬂ



†˝“‡ˆ



ˆ


Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


At December 31, 2014, the amortized cost of approximately 7,600 investments in equity and fixed income securities exceeded their fair value by 
$1,765 million. Of the $1,765 million, the gross unrealized losses on equity 
securities were $44 million. Of the remainder, $400 million represented 

unrealized losses on fixed income investments that have been in a gross-
unrealized-loss position for less than a year and, of these, 92% were rated 
investment grade; $1,321 million represented unrealized losses on fixed 
income investments that have been in a gross-unrealized-loss position for a 
year or more and, of these, 95% were rated investment grade.At December 31, 2014, the AFS mortgage-backed securities portfolio fair value balance of $45,008 million consisted of $36,091 million of government-sponsored agency securities, and $8,917 million of privately 
sponsored securities, substantially all of which were backed by non-U.S. 
residential mortgages.As discussed in more detail below, the Company conducts periodic reviews 
of all securities with unrealized losses to evaluate whether the impairment 
is other-than-temporary. Any credit-related impairment related to debt 

securities is recorded in earnings as OTTI. Non-credit-related impairment is 
recognized in AOCI if the Company does not plan to sell and is not likely to 
be required to sell. For other debt securities with OTTI, the entire impairment 
is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income.192The table below shows the fair value of AFS securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer as of December 31, 2014 and 2013:Less than 12 months12 months or longerTotal
In millions of dollarsFair
 value
Gross unrealized lossesFair
 value
Gross unrealized lossesFair
 value
Gross unrealized lossesDecember 31, 2014
Securities AFS
Œ›ƒ›
$4,198$30$5,547$129$9,745$1595Š2Š7Š
1,276319941,4757124113622603−
$5,603$34$5,884$135$11,487$169Œ›ƒ›−
Œ›ƒ›−‡
$36,581$119$1,013$8$37,594$127
5,698975446,45213−−
$42,279$128$1,767$12$44,046$140
$386$15$5,802$962$6,188$97718,4951475,98413924,479286
3,511631,350284,861913,701133,816457,51758⁄™ƒ
5142184026944Total securities AFS
$74,026$404$24,821$1,361$98,847$1,765
Securities AFS
Œ›ƒ›
˙˙˙˙˙˙˝˝”˝
˜ˆ˛˚˝”˜˚ˇˇ˜−
˙˜˛ˆ˘˘˛˙˙˙˙˙Œ›ƒ›−
Œ›ƒ›−‡
˙˙˛˝˝˙˙˙˙
ˇˇ˛˚˛˛ˇ˘−−
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙ˇ˝
˛˛˛˛ˆ˜˚˘ˇ˝˛˜˚⁄™ƒ
˛ˆ˜˘˛˜ˆ˚˘˘Total securities AFS
˙˙˙˙˙˙193The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of AFS debt securities by contractual maturity dates as of December 31, 2014 and 2013:2014˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsAmortized costFair
 value
Mortgage-backed securities (1)$44$44˙˙9319351,3621,387†˜“42,16342,642Total
$44,500$45,008˙˙U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$13,070$13,084˙˙104,982105,131ˇˇˆ˜˝˜2,2862,325†˜“3,0793,150˝ˆ˚ˇ˛˝ˆ˛˚˛Total
$123,417$123,690˙˙State and municipal$590$590˙˙3,6723,677˝ˆ˘˝˛532546†˜“8,7327,886Total
$13,526$12,699˙˜˚ˆ˘ˇ˛˙Foreign government

$31,355$31,382˙˙41,91342,46716,00815,779˘ˆ˜˛ˇ†˜“9731,069Total
$90,249$90,697˙˙All other (3)$1,248$1,251˙˙˜ˆ˘˝˝10,44210,535˛˛ˆ˚˜˚7,2827,318†˜“6,2566,220˘ˆ˘˜˛Total
$25,228$25,324˙˜˘ˆ˛˚˛˙Total debt securities AFS
$296,920$297,418˙˙†˛“
†˜“
†˝“
194Debt Securities Held-to-MaturityThe carrying value and fair value of debt securities HTM at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:In millions of dollarsAmortized cost basis (1)Net unrealized gains (losses) recognized in AOCICarrying
 value
 (2)Gross unrealized gainsGross unrealized (losses)Fair
 value
December 31, 2014
Debt securities held-to-maturity
†˝“Œ›ƒ›
$8,795$95$8,890$106$(6)$8,99060(12)486(1)531,125(213)912537(287)1,1626(1)515Š20
983(137)84692Š9388Š81Š9−
$10,977$(268)$10,709$757$(294)$11,172
$8,443$(494)$7,949$227$(57)$8,1194,725Š4,72577Š4,802
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ†˝“556(18)53850(10)578Total debt securities held-to-maturity 
(5)$24,701$(780)$23,921$1,111$(361)$24,671
Debt securities held-to-maturity
†˝“˙˘˜˙†˛ˇ“˙˙˙†˜“˙“†˜ˇ˝“˜”˜˛”˝
˛ˆ˝˘˜†˜˚ˇ“˛ˆ˛ˇˇˇ˚†˜˚“˛ˆ˜˚ˇ˛˚”˛˚˛”˛˛−
˙˙“˙˜ˆ˝˜ˇ˙˙“˙
˙˙†ˇ˜“˙˛ˆ˝˝˜˙˙†˘˚“˙˛ˆ˝˛˜”˘˚†˛˚“
“˛˛˛”†˝“†˜ˇ“˜˜†˛˚“Total debt securities held-to-maturity
˙˙“˙˙˙“˙†˛“Trading account assets
ˆ
›⁄™ƒˆ


†˜“





›
†˝“‡ﬂ


⁄™ƒ›

‡ˆ

ˆ








‡ﬂ


›ˆ


195The Company has the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity or, where applicable, the exercise of any issuer call options, absent 
any unforeseen significant changes in circumstances, including deterioration 
in credit or changes in regulatory capital requirements.The net unrealized losses classified in AOCI primarily relate to debt securities previously classified as AFS that have been transferred to HTM, and 
include any cumulative fair value hedge adjustments. The net unrealized 
loss amount also includes any non-credit-related changes in fair value of HTM securities that have suffered credit impairment recorded in earnings. 
The AOCI balance related to HTM securities is amortized over the remaining 
contractual life of the related securities as an adjustment of yield in a 
manner consistent with the accretion of any difference between the carrying 
value at the transfer date and par value of the same debt securities. The table 
below shows the fair value of debt securities in HTM that have been in an 
unrecognized loss position as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 for less than 
12 months and for 12 months or longer:Less than 12 months12 months or longerTotal
In millions of dollarsFair
 value
Gross unrecognized  lossesFair
 value
Gross unrecognized  lossesFair
 value
Gross unrecognized  lossesDecember 31, 2014
Debt securities held-to-maturity
$4$Š$1,134$294$1,138$294
2,52834314232,84257ŠŠŠŠŠŠ91174918310Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$2,541$35$1,622$326$4,163$361
Debt securities held-to-maturity
˙”˙”˙˙˙˙
˜˚˝˚˜˘˚˛˚””˛˚ˇ˛˚Total debt securities held-to-maturity
˙˙˝ˇ˙˙˙˜ˆ˛˛˛˙Excluded from the gross unrecognized losses presented in the above table are $(780) million and $(675) million of net unrealized losses recorded in AOCI as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 respectively, primarily related to the 

difference between the amortized cost and carrying value of HTM securities 
that were reclassified from AFS. Substantially all of these net unrecognized 
losses relate to securities that have been in a loss position for 12 months or 
longer at December 31, 2014 and 2013.196The following table presents the carrying value and fair value of HTM debt securities by contractual maturity dates as of December 31, 2014 and 2013:2014˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsCarrying value
Fair value

Mortgage-backed securities$Š$Š˙”˙”ŠŠ””863869˛˚˛˛†˛“9,84610,303˜ˆ˝˛ˇTotal
$10,709$11,172˙˜ˆ˝˜ˇ˙State and municipal$36$38˙˙2424˛˘˛˘144148˘˜†˛“7,7457,909Total
$7,949$8,119˙˛ˆ˝˝˜˙˛ˆ˝˛˜Foreign government
$Š$Š˙”˙”4,7254,802ŠŠ””†˛“ŠŠ””Total
$4,725$4,802˙˙All other (2)$Š$Š˙”˙”ŠŠŠŠ””†˛“538578Total
$538$578˙˛ˆ˝˛˝˙Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$23,921$24,671˙˙†˛“

†˜“
Evaluating Investments for Other-Than-Temporary ImpairmentOverview
The Company conducts periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized 
losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other-than-temporary.An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for 
AFS securities. Losses related to HTM securities generally are not recorded, 
as these investments are carried at amortized cost basis. However, for HTM 

securities with credit-related losses, the credit loss is recognized in earnings 
as OTTI and any difference between the cost basis adjusted for the OTTI and 
fair value is recognized in AOCI and amortized as an adjustment of yield 
over the remaining contractual life of the security. For securities transferred 

to HTM from Trading account assets
, amortized cost is defined as the fair 
value of the securities at the date of transfer, plus any accretion income 

and less any impairment recognized in earnings subsequent to transfer. 
For securities transferred to HTM from AFS, amortized cost is defined as the 
original purchase cost, adjusted for the cumulative accretion or amortization 
of any purchase discount or premium, plus or minus any cumulative fair 
value hedge adjustments, net of accretion or amortization, and less any 
impairment recognized in earnings.Regardless of the classification of the securities as AFS or HTM, the Company assesses each position with an unrealized loss for OTTI. Factors 
considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include:the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost;the severity of the impairment;the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer;activity in the market of the issuer that may indicate adverse credit 
conditions; andthe Company™s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of 
time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.197The Company™s review for impairment generally entails:identification and evaluation of impaired investments;analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the 
investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected 
recovery period;consideration of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors 
or triggers that could cause individual investments to qualify as having 
other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support 
other-than-temporary impairment; anddocumentation of the results of these analyses, as required under 
business policies.Debt
The entire difference between amortized cost basis and fair value is 
recognized in earnings as OTTI for impaired debt securities that the 
Company has an intent to sell or for which the Company believes it will 
more-likely-than-not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized 
cost basis. However, for those securities that the Company does not intend to 
sell and is not likely to be required to sell, only the credit-related impairment 
is recognized in earnings and any non-credit-related impairment is recorded 
in AOCI.For debt securities, credit impairment exists where management does not expect to receive contractual principal and interest cash flows sufficient to 
recover the entire amortized cost basis of a security.
EquityFor equity securities, management considers the various factors described 
above, including its intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period 
of time sufficient for recovery to cost or whether it is more-likely-than-not 
that the Company will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of 
its cost basis. Where management lacks that intent or ability, the security™s 
decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is recorded 
in earnings. AFS equity securities deemed to be other-than-temporarily 
impaired are written down to fair value, with the full difference between fair 
value and cost recognized in earnings.Management assesses equity method investments that have fair values that are less than their respective carrying values for OTTI. Fair value is 
measured as price multiplied by quantity if the investee has publicly listed 
securities. If the investee is not publicly listed, other methods are used (see 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).For impaired equity method investments that Citi plans to sell prior to recovery of value or would likely be required to sell, with no expectation that 
the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale date, the full impairment 
is recognized in earnings as OTTI regardless of severity and duration. The 
measurement of the OTTI does not include partial projected recoveries 
subsequent to the balance sheet date.For impaired equity method investments that management does not plan to sell and is not likely to be required to sell prior to recovery of value, the 
evaluation of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on 

(i) whether and when an equity method investment will recover in value and 
(ii) whether the investor has the intent and ability to hold that investment for 
a period of time sufficient to recover the value. The determination of whether 
the impairment is considered other-than-temporary considers the following 

indicators, regardless of the time and extent of impairment:the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence 
the operations of the issuer;the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient 
to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value; andthe length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the 
carrying value.The sections below describe the Company™s process for identifying 
credit-related impairments for security types that have the most significant unrealized losses as of December 31, 2014. AkbankAs of December 31, 2014, Citi™s remaining 9.9% stake in Akbank T.A.S., an 
equity investment in Turkey (Akbank), is recorded within marketable equity 
securities available-for-sale. The revaluation of the Turkish lira was hedged, 
so the change in the value of the currency related to Akbank investment did 
not have a significant impact on earnings during the year.Mortgage-backed securitiesFor U.S. mortgage-backed securities (and in particular for Alt-A and other 
mortgage-backed securities that have significant unrealized losses as a 
percentage of amortized cost), credit impairment is assessed using a cash 
flow model that estimates the principal and interest cash flows on the 
underlying mortgages using the security-specific collateral and transaction 
structure. The model distributes the estimated cash flows to the various 
tranches of securities, considering the transaction structure and any 
subordination and credit enhancements that exist in that structure. The cash 
flow model incorporates actual cash flows on the mortgage-backed securities 
through the current period and then estimates the remaining cash flows 
using a number of assumptions, including default rates, prepayment rates, 
recovery rates (on foreclosed properties) and loss severity rates (on non-
agency mortgage-backed securities).Management develops specific assumptions using market data, internal estimates and estimates published by rating agencies and other third-party 
sources. Default rates are projected by considering current underlying 
mortgage loan performance, generally assuming the default of (i) 10% 
of current loans, (ii) 25% of 30-59 day delinquent loans, (iii) 70% of 
60-90 day delinquent loans and (iv) 100% of 91+ day delinquent loans. 
These estimates are extrapolated along a default timing curve to estimate the 198total lifetime pool default rate. Other assumptions contemplate the actual collateral attributes, including geographic concentrations, rating actions and 
current market prices.Cash flow projections are developed using different stress test scenarios. Management evaluates the results of those stress tests (including the 
severity of any cash shortfall indicated and the likelihood of the stress 
scenarios actually occurring based on the underlying pool™s characteristics 

and performance) to assess whether management expects to recover the 
amortized cost basis of the security. If cash flow projections indicate that the 

Company does not expect to recover its amortized cost basis, the Company 
recognizes the estimated credit loss in earnings.State and municipal securitiesThe process for identifying credit impairments in Citigroup™s AFS and HTM 
state and municipal bonds is primarily based on a credit analysis that 
incorporates third-party credit ratings. Citigroup monitors the bond issuers and any insurers providing default protection in the form of financial 
guarantee insurance. The average external credit rating, ignoring any 
insurance, is Aa3/AA-. In the event of an external rating downgrade or 
other indicator of credit impairment (i.e., based on instrument-specific 
estimates of cash flows or probability of issuer default), the subject bond is 
specifically reviewed for adverse changes in the amount or timing of expected 
contractual principal and interest payments.For state and municipal bonds with unrealized losses that Citigroup plans to sell (for AFS only), would likely be required to sell (for AFS only) or will 
be subject to an issuer call deemed probable of exercise prior to the expected 
recovery of its amortized cost basis (for AFS and HTM), the full impairment is 
recognized in earnings.Recognition and Measurement of OTTIThe following table presents the total OTTI recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2014:OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
Year ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsAFS (1)HTMOther AssetsTotal


−
$21$5$Š$26
8ŠŠ8

$13$5$Š$18
‡
38026Š406Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
$393$31$Š$424†˛“
The following table presents the total OTTI recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2013:OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
£
In millions of dollars⁄™ƒ†˛“
†˜“−


−
˙˙˙”˙˛ˇ˝
””

˙˙˙”˙

†˜“”˜˚˛Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
˙˙˙˜˚˛˙†˛“
†˜“

Other revenue›199The following is a 12-month roll-forward of the credit-related impairments recognized in earnings for AFS and HTM debt securities held as of December 31, 2014 that the Company does not intend to sell nor likely will be required to sell:Cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings on securities still held
In millions of dollars
Credit impairments  recognized in  earnings on  securities not  previously impairedCredit impairments  recognized in  earnings on  securities that have  been previously  impairedReductions due to credit-impaired  securities sold, 
 transferred or  maturedDec. 31, 2014 
balanceAFS debt securities
˙$Š$Š$Š$295˛˘˛ŠŠŠ171
˛˛˝8Š(3)1185ŠŠ149Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
 AFS debt securities˙˘˜˝$13$Š$(3)$733HTM debt securities
†˛“˙$5$Š$(13)$670
ŠŠ(56)Š˛˝˝ŠŠŠ133Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
 HTM debt securities˙$5$Š$(69)$803†˛“
Investments in Alternative Investment Funds That Calculate Net Asset Value per ShareThe Company holds investments in certain alternative investment funds 
that calculate net asset value (NAV) per share, including hedge funds, 
private equity funds, funds of funds and real estate funds. The Company™s 
investments include co-investments in funds that are managed by the Company and investments in funds that are managed by third parties. 
Investments in funds are generally classified as non-marketable equity 
securities carried at fair value. The fair values of these investments are 
estimated using the NAV per share of the Company™s ownership interest in the 
funds, where it is not probable that the Company will sell an investment at a 
price other than the NAV.Fair value
Unfunded commitmentsRedemption frequency
 (if currently eligible) monthly,
 quarterly, annually
Redemption notice periodIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝2014˜˚˛˝$8˙$Š˙”Generally quarterly10-95 days
796205˛˘˚ŠŠ
16624˝ˇŠŠTotal
(4)$970˙$229˙˜˚ˇŠŠ†˛“
†˜“‡ﬂ

›


†˝“
†“

˝˛ˆ

˝˛ˆ‡›
20015. LOANSCitigroup loans are reported in two categoriesŠconsumer and corporate. These categories are classified primarily according to the segment and 
subsegment that manage the loans.Consumer LoansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the 
Global Consumer Banking businesses in Citicorp and in Citi Holdings. The 
following table provides information by loan type for the periods indicated:In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Consumer loans

$96,533
14,450112,9825,895$229,860

$54,462
31,12832,03222,561609€’“$140,792Total Consumer loans
$370,652(682)Consumer loans, net of unearned income
$369,970ˇ…ˇ—
Citigroup has established a risk management process to monitor, evaluate 
and manage the principal risks associated with its consumer loan portfolio. Credit quality indicators that are actively monitored include delinquency 
status, consumer credit scores (FICO), and loan to value (LTV) ratios, each as 

discussed in more detail below.
Included in the loan table above are lending products whose terms may give rise to greater credit issues. Credit cards with below-market introductory 
interest rates and interest-only loans are examples of such products. These 
products are closely managed using credit techniques that are intended to 
mitigate their higher inherent risk.During the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company sold and/or reclassified to held-for-sale $7.9 billion and $11.5 billion, respectively, 

of consumer loans. The Company did not have significant purchases of 
consumer loans during the year ended December 31, 2014. During the year 
ended December 31, 2013, Citi also acquired approximately $7 billion of 
loans related to the acquisition of Best Buy™s U.S.
 credit card portfolio.Delinquency Status
Delinquency status is monitored and considered a key indicator of credit 
quality of consumer loans. Principally the U.S. residential first mortgage 
loans use the Mortgage Banking Association (MBA) method of reporting 
delinquencies, which considers a loan delinquent if a monthly payment has 
not been received by the end of the day immediately preceding the loan™s 
next due date. All other loans use a method of reporting delinquencies, which 
considers a loan delinquent if a monthly payment has not been received by 
the close of business on the loan™s next due date.As a general policy, residential first mortgages, home equity loans and 
installment loans are classified as non-accrual when loan payments are 
90 days contractually past due. Credit cards and unsecured revolving loans 
generally accrue interest until payments are 180 days past due. Home equity 
loans in regulated bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related 
residential first mortgage is 90 days or more past due. Mortgage loans in 
regulated bank entities discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other 

than Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured loans, are classified as 
non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on a cash (non-accrual) 
basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a forward-
looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the payment 
of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 90 days 
past due.The policy for re-aging modified U.S. consumer loans to current status varies by product. Generally, one of the conditions to qualify for these 

modifications is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, FHA and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) loans are modified 

under those respective agencies™ guidelines and payments are not always 
required in order to re-age a modified loan to current.201The following tables provide details on Citigroup™s consumer loan delinquency and non-accrual loans as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:Consumer Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2014In millions of dollarsTotal
 current (1)(2)30-89 days past due (3)˜ 90 days past due (3)Past
 due government
 guaranteed (4)Total
 loans (2)Total
 non-accrual90 days past due and accruing

$61,730$1,280$1,371$3,443$67,824$2,746$2,75927,262335520Š28,1171,271Š111,4411,3161,271Š114,028Š1,27312,361229284Š12,87425438,6303113Š8,67413515Total
$221,424$3,191$3,459$3,443$231,517$4,406$4,050

$44,782$312$223$Š$45,317$454$ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ30,327602553Š31,48241332229,297328149Š29,774216Š31,28086255Š31,621405ŠTotal
$135,686$1,328$1,180$Š$138,194$1,488$322Total GCB and Citi Holdings
$357,110$4,519$4,639$3,443$369,711$5,894$4,372Other2381011Š25930ŠTotal Citigroup
$357,348$4,529$4,650$3,443$369,970$5,924$4,372ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Consumer Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2013In millions of dollarsTotal
 current (1)(2)30-89 days past due (3)˜ 90 days past due (3)Past
 due government
 guaranteed (4)Total
 loans (2)Total
 non-accrual90 days past due and accruing

ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ€˜’ﬂ˛˛˜€Total


˝˝˜ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ˜˝˚ﬂ˛˛˛ﬂ’˛˚ﬂTotal
ﬂTotal GCB and Citi Holdings
Other˛˝˛’ﬂ˝’€ﬂTotal Citigroup
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
202Consumer Credit Scores (FICO)In the U.S., independent credit agencies rate an individual™s risk for 
assuming debt based on the individual™s credit history and assign every 
consumer a ﬁFICOﬂ (Fair Isaac Corporation) credit score. These scores 
are continually updated by the agencies based upon an individual™s credit 
actions (e.g., taking out a loan or missed or late payments).The following tables provide details on the FICO scores attributable to Citi™s U.S.
 consumer loan portfolio as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 
(commercial market loans are not included in the table since they are 
business-based and FICO scores are not a primary driver in their credit 
evaluation). FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the 
portfolio or, otherwise, on a quarterly basis, for the remaining portfolio.
FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio (1)(2)December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsLess than 620˜ 620 but less than 660Equal to or greater than 660
$8,911$5,463$45,7833,2572,45620,9577,64710,29692,8774,0152,5205,150Total
$23,830$20,735$164,767ˇ
ˇ…ˇ

ˇ
ˇ
FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio (1)(2)ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollarsˇ’˜˚˜ˇˇ
ˇ
Total
ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇ
Loan to Value (LTV) Ratios
LTV ratios (loan balance divided by appraised value) are calculated at 
origination and updated by applying market price data.The following tables provide details on the LTV ratios attributable to Citi™s 
U.S. consumer mortgage portfolios as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. LTV 

ratios are updated monthly using the most recent Core Logic Home Price 
Index data available for substantially all of the portfolio applied at the 
Metropolitan Statistical Area level, if available, or the state level if not. The 
remainder of the portfolio is updated in a similar manner using the Federal 
Housing Finance Agency indices.LTV distribution in U.S.
 portfolio (1)(2)December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsLess than or equal to 80%> 80% but less than or equal to 100%Greater than 100%
$48,163$9,480$2,67014,6387,2674,641Total
$62,801$16,747$7,311ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇ
LTV distribution in U.S.
 portfolio (1)(2)ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollarsˇ>ˇˇ˛˚˚Ž
ˇˇ˛˚˚Ž
Total
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Impaired Consumer LoansImpaired loans are those loans where Citigroup believes it is probable all 
amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan will 
not be collected. Impaired consumer loans include non-accrual commercial 
market loans, as well as smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms 
have been modified due to the borrower™s financial difficulties and where 
Citigroup has granted a concession to the borrower. These modifications 
may include interest rate reductions and/or principal forgiveness. Impaired 
consumer loans exclude smaller-balance homogeneous loans that have not 
been modified and are carried on a non-accrual basis. In addition, impaired 
consumer loans exclude substantially all loans modified pursuant to Citi™s 
short-term modification programs (i.e., for periods of 12 months or less) that 
were modified prior to January 1, 2011.203As a result of OCC guidance issued in the third quarter of 2012, mortgage loans to borrowers who have gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy are classified as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). These TDRs, other than 
FHA-insured loans, are written down to collateral value less cost to sell. FHA-
insured loans are reserved based on a discounted cash flow model.The following tables present information about total impaired consumer loans at and for the periods ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, 

and for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 for interest income 
recognized on impaired consumer loans:At and for the year ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)(2)Unpaid principal balanceRelated specific allowance (3)Average
 carrying value
 (4)Interest income recognized (5)(6)

$13,551$14,387$1,909$15,389$6902,0292,6745992,075742,4072,4478492,73219694896345097512442359911038122Total
$19,358$21,070$3,917$21,552$1,106ˇ
ˇ
ˇAllowance for loan losses
ˇ–
ˇˇˇ
ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollarsˇˇ
ˇ–
ˇ
ˇˇ

€“˚˜˜Total
ˇ
ˇ
ˇAllowance for loan losses
ˇ–
ˇˇˇ
ˇ
204Consumer Troubled Debt RestructuringsThe following tables present consumer TDRs occurring during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013:At and for the year ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollars except number of loans modifiedNumber of loans modifiedPost-modification 
recorded investment (1)(2)Deferred principal (3)Contingent principal forgiveness (4)Principal forgiveness (5)Average 
interest rate reductionNorth America
20,114$2,478$52$36$161%7,4442793Š142185,962808ŠŠŠ1546,838351ŠŠŠ719135ŠŠ1ŠTotal 
(7)260,549$3,951$55$36$31International
3,150$103$Š$Š$11%6711ŠŠŠŠ139,128447ŠŠ91361,563292ŠŠ79346200ŠŠŠŠTotal 
(7)204,254$1,053$Š$Š$17ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollars except 
number of loans modifiedˇ


–
ˇ
North America
˛Ž˛ﬂ“˜˛ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ€˜˚˜˝“ﬂﬂﬂﬂTotal 
(7)’“International
ﬂﬂ˜˛Ž˜ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ˛˚˛˝ﬂﬂ€€˜ﬂﬂﬂTotal 
(7)˜ﬂ˛“ˇ
ˇ
North America
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ


ˇ


ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
North America
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ


205The following table presents consumer TDRs that defaulted during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for which the payment 
default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is 
defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial 
markets loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due.Years ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝North America
$7157219495“˛9˝Total
$1,085International
$24Šﬂ217104105Total
$450˝€˛206Corporate LoansCorporate loans represent loans and leases managed by the Institutional Clients Group in Citicorp or, to a much lesser extent, in Citi Holdings. The following table presents information by corporate loan type as of 
December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014ˇ˜˚˛˝Corporateˇ
$35,05536,272
32,537
29,2071,758$134,829
$79,23933,269
6,031
19,259356
2,236$140,390Total Corporate loans
$275,219(554)Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$274,665ˇ…ˇ—
The Company sold and/or reclassified (to held-for-sale) $4.8 billion and 
$5.8 billion of corporate loans during the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2013, respectively. The Company did not have significant purchases 

of corporate loans classified as held-for-investment for the years ended 

December 31, 2014 or 2013.Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a 
forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal 
is 90 days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized and in the 
process of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired corporate loans 
and leases is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, 
and interest is thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually 
received in cash. When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability 
of principal, all cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded 
investment in the loan. While corporate loans are generally managed based 
on their internally assigned risk rating (see further discussion below), the 
following tables present delinquency information by corporate loan type as 
of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.Corporate Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2014In millions of dollars30-89 days past due and accruing (1)˜ 90 days past due and accruing (1)Total
 past due and accruingTotal
 non-accrual (2)Total 
current (3)Total 
loans (4)$50$Š$50$575$109,764$110,3892Š225067,58067,832
86Š8625238,13538,473ŠŠŠ512,0622,113491505549,84449,949
5,85851Total
$187$1$188$1,183$267,385$274,665ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
˜ˇ“˚ˇ


ˇ
ˇ
ˇŁ
207Corporate Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2013In millions of dollars30-89 days past due and accruing (1)˜ 90 days past due and accruing (1)Total
 past due and accruingTotal
 non-accrual (2)Total
 current (3)Total
 loans (4)€˜€€€’“ﬂﬂﬂ
“˛˛˚˜€˚
˛˛€Total
˝˛˛’’˝€€ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
˜ˇ“˚ˇ

ˇ
ˇ
ˇŁ
Citigroup has a risk management process to monitor, evaluate and 
manage the principal risks associated with its corporate loan portfolio. As 
part of its risk management process, Citi assigns numeric risk ratings to its 
corporate loan facilities based on quantitative and qualitative assessments 
of the obligor and facility. These risk ratings are reviewed at least annually 

or more often if material events related to the obligor or facility warrant. 
Factors considered in assigning the risk ratings include financial condition 
of the obligor, qualitative assessment of management and strategy, amount 

and sources of repayment, amount and type of collateral and guarantee 
arrangements, amount and type of any contingencies associated with the 
obligor, and the obligor™s industry and geography.
The obligor risk ratings are defined by ranges of default probabilities. The facility risk ratings are defined by ranges of loss norms, which are the product 
of the probability of default and the loss given default. The investment grade 
rating categories are similar to the category BBB-/Baa3 and above as defined 
by S&P and Moody™s. Loans classified according to the bank regulatory 

definitions as special mention, substandard and doubtful will have risk 
ratings within the non-investment grade categories.208Corporate Loans Credit Quality Indicators at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013Recorded investment in loans (1)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 
2014ˇˇ˜˚˛˝Investment grade (2)$80,81256,154
16,0681,66946,284Total investment grade
$200,987Non-investment grade (2)$29,00311,429
3,5873933,609575€’“250
2525155€˚Total non-investment grade
$49,204Private bank loans managed on a 
delinquency basis
 (2)$18,616Loans at fair value
5,858Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$274,665ˇ


ˇ
Corporate loans and leases identified as impaired and placed on non-accrual status are written down to the extent that principal is judged to 
be uncollectible. Impaired collateral-dependent loans and leases, where 
repayment is expected to be provided solely by the sale of the underlying 
collateral and there are no other available and reliable sources of repayment, 
are written down to the lower of cost or collateral value, less cost to sell. 
Cash-basis loans are returned to an accrual status when all contractual 
principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of repayment and 
there is a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months, 
in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan.209The following tables present non-accrual loan information by corporate loan type at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 and interest income recognized on non-accrual corporate loans for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively:Non-Accrual Corporate LoansAt and for the year ended December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)Unpaid principal balanceRelated specific allowanceAverage
 carrying value
 (2)Interest income  recognized (3)
$575$863$155$658$3225026272784
25228724263851532985Š556821603Total non-accrual corporate loans
$1,183$1,533$236$1,344$47ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollarsˇˇ
ˇ–
ˇ
ˇ
€’“€““’€˝˚˝“
˝˛“˚˛˝˛ﬂ€˚˜˛’˜˚˛Total non-accrual corporate loans
December 31, 2014
ˇ˜˚˛˝
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)Related specific allowanceˇ
ˇ
$224$155€“377˝
70244729˛˝˛5521’˛˜˚Total non-accrual corporate loans with specific allowance
$433$236
$351213
182˜’˜4˝Š“Total non-accrual corporate loans without specific allowance
$750N/A•ž–ˇ
ˇ–
ˇ
ˇ

210Corporate Troubled Debt RestructuringsThe following table presents corporate TDR activity at and for the year ended December 31, 2014.In millions of dollarsCarrying
 Value
TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of principal payments (1)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of interest payments (2)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of both principal and interest payments$48$30$17$1ŠŠŠŠ
8512ŠŠŠŠTotal
$56$35$18$3ˇ



ˇ
The following table presents corporate TDR activity at and for the year ended December 31, 2013.In millions of dollars
ˇŸ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
˛˝˚˛€ﬂﬂﬂﬂ
˛“˛ﬂﬂTotal
˛’“€˜˜˝ˇ




ˇ
The following table presents total corporate loans modified in a TDR at December 31, 2014 and 2013, as well as those TDRs that defaulted during the three months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and for which the payment default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is defined as 
60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial markets loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due.In millions of dollarsTDR balances at December 31, 2014
TDR loans  in payment default 
 during the year ended December 31, 2014

ˇˇ˜˚˛˝
ˇ
ˇˇˇ˜˚˛˝
$117$Š˛“€˜€ŠŠﬂ
107Š˛’˛˛€355ŠﬂTotal
$579$Š211Purchased Distressed LoansIncluded in the corporate and consumer loans outstanding tables above are purchased distressed loans, which are loans that have evidenced significant 
credit deterioration subsequent to origination but prior to acquisition by 
Citigroup. In accordance with SOP 03-3 (codified as ASC 310-30), the 
difference between the total expected cash flows for these loans and the 
initial recorded investment is recognized in income over the life of the loans 
using a level yield. Accordingly, these loans have been excluded from the 
impaired loan table information presented above. In addition, per SOP 03-3, 
subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows for a purchased distressed loan require a build of an allowance so the loan retains its level yield. 
However, increases in the expected cash flows are first recognized as a 
reduction of any previously established allowance and then recognized as 
income prospectively over the remaining life of the loan by increasing the 
loan™s level yield. Where the expected cash flows cannot be reliably estimated, 
the purchased distressed loan is accounted for under the cost recovery 
method. The carrying amount of the Company™s purchased distressed 
loan portfolio was $361 million and $590 million, net of an allowance of 
$60 million and $113 million, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.The changes in the accretable yield, related allowance and carrying amount net of accretable yield for 2014 and 2013 are as follows:In millions of dollarsAccretable yieldCarrying
 amount of loan receivable
Allowanceˇ˜˚˛˜
˜˜ﬂ
˛˚ﬂ˜˜ﬂ
˝ﬂﬂﬂˇ˜˚˛˝
€˚˝˛˛˝˛ﬂ
ﬂﬂ
˜˝ﬂﬂBalance at December 31, 2014
 (2)$27$421$60ˇ…

ˇˇ

…
ˇ

…
21216. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSESIn millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period$19,648˙˜ˆˇ˘ˆˆ˙˝˚ˇ˛˛ˆ(11,108)2,135Net credit losses (NCLs)$(8,973)˙˙$8,973˙˙˛˘ˇ˜˝˛
(1,879)
(266)Total provision for credit losses
$6,828˙˙ˇ
(1,509)Allowance for loan losses at end of period$15,994˙˙˜ˆˇ˘ˆˆAllowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at beginning of period (5)$1,229˙˙
(162)ˇ
(4)˝˚Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at end of period (5)$1,063˙˙Total allowance for loans, leases, and unfunded lending commitments
$17,057˙˙










EMEA…ˇ









Other liabilities

213Allowance for Credit Losses and Investment in Loans at December 31, 2014 In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

$2,584$17,064$19,648
(427)(10,681)(11,108)1391,9962,135
2888,6858,973
(133)(1,746)(1,879)
(20)(246)(266)(42)(1,467)(1,509)Ending balance$2,389$13,605$15,994

$2,110$9,673$11,783
2353,9174,152
441559Total allowance for loan losses
$2,389$13,605$15,994

$267,271$350,199$617,470
1,48519,35820,843
51370421
5,858435,901Total loans, net of unearned income
$274,665$369,970$644,635Allowance for Credit Losses and Investment in Loans at December 31, 2013 In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

˙˙˙˜ˆˇ˘ˆˆ

˜˚˛

Ending balance˙˙˙

˙˜ˇ˜˝˜˙˛˜ˇ˘˚˜˙

˛˛˝Total allowance for loan losses
˙˙˙

˙˙˙
˜ˇ˜˜˜

Total loans, net of unearned income
˙˙˙Allowance for Credit Losses at December 31, 2012 In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

˙˙˙˝˚ˇ˛˛ˆ

˜˜˝˛˘ˇ˜˝˛
˜
˝˝Ending balance˙˙˙˜ˆˇ˘ˆˆ21417. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETSGoodwillThe changes in Goodwill during 2014 and 2013 were as follows:In millions of dollars
˙


˙
(1,214)
(203)Balance at December 31, 2014
$23,592The changes in Goodwill by segment during 2014 and 2013 were as follows:In millions of dollarsGlobal Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCiti HoldingsTotal

˙˙˙˛ˆ˝˙˙˙Š˙Š˙˝
˙˙˙˙$(86)$(1)$(116)$(203)(505)(711)2(1,214)Balance at December 31, 2014
$13,394$10,156$42$23,592
Goodwill
€
Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the level below the business segments (referred to as a reporting unit). The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2014 resulting in no 
impairment for any of the reporting units. The reporting unit structure in 
2014 was the same as the reporting unit structure in 2013, except for the 
effect of the ICG reorganization during the first quarter of 2014 noted below 
and the sale involving the Citi HoldingsŠCards
 reporting unit during the third quarter of 2014.Effective January 1, 2014, the businesses within the legacy ICG reporting units, Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
, were realigned 
and aggregated as Banking and Markets and securities services (Markets). An interim goodwill impairment test was performed on the 
impacted reporting units as of January 1, 2014, resulting in no impairment. 
Subsequent to January 1, 2014, goodwill was allocated to disposals and tested 
for impairment under Banking and Markets. Furthermore, on September 
22, 2014, Citi sold its consumer operations in Spain, which included the Citi 
HoldingsŠCards
 reporting unit. As a result, 100% of the Citi HoldingsŠCards
 goodwill balance was allocated to the sale. No other interim goodwill 
impairment tests were performed during 2014, other than the test performed 
related to the ICG reorganization discussed above.No goodwill was deemed impaired in 2014, 2013 and 2012.215The following table shows reporting units with goodwill balances as of December 31, 2014 and the fair value as a percentage of allocated book value as of the annual impairment test. In millions of dollarsReporting Unit (1)Fair Value as a % of 
allocated book value
GoodwillNorth America Global Consumer Banking
260%$6,756EMEA Global Consumer Banking178332Asia Global Consumer Banking2644,704Latin America Global Consumer Banking
2141,602Banking4043,481Markets and Securities Services
2006,675Latin America Retirement Services
19342Other
During the fourth quarter of 2014, Citi announced its intention to exit its consumer businesses in 11 markets in Latin America, Asia and EMEA, 
as well as its consumer finance business in Korea. Citi also announced 
its intention to exit several non-core transactions businesses within ICG. Effective January 1, 2015, these businesses were transferred to Citi Holdings 
and aggregated to five new reporting units: Citi HoldingsŠConsumer EMEA, Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Latin America, Citi HoldingsŠ
Consumer Japan, Citi HoldingsŠConsumer Finance South Korea, and 
Citi HoldingsŠICG. Goodwill balances associated with the transfers were 
allocated to each of the component businesses based on their relative fair 
values to the legacy reporting units.216Intangible AssetsThe components of intangible assets as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 were as follows:December 31, 2014

In millions of dollarsGross carrying
 amountAccumulated amortizationNet carrying
 amount




$7,626$6,294$1,332˙˙˙
1,1531,021132˛ˇ˜ˆˆ˛ˇ˚ˆ˜˜˚˝
57933124823315479
290Š290˝˜˝Š˝˜˝5,2172,7322,485Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
$15,098$10,532$4,566˙˙˙
1,845Š1,845ŠTotal intangible assets
$16,943$10,532$6,411˙˙˙

Intangible assets amortization expense was $756 million, $808 million and $856 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Intangible assets 
amortization expense is estimated to be $659 million in 2015, $634 million 
in 2016, $938 million in 2017, $411 million in 2018 and $368 million 
in 2019.The changes in intangible assets during the 12 months ended December 31, 2014 were as follows:In millions of dollars


˜˚˛˝Acquisitions/ divestituresAmortizationImpairmentsFX and other (1)Net carrying
 amount at December 31, 
2014
˙$110$(324)$Š$Š$1,332
˜˚˝(6)(59)Š(6)132
14(28)Š(24)248Š(12)Š(1)79
˝˜˝(2)ŠŠ(31)290157(333)(2)572,485Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
˙$273$(756)$(2)$(5)$4,566
1,845Total intangible assets
˙$6,411


21718. DEBTShort-Term Borrowings2014˜˚˛˝In millions of dollarsBalanceWeighted 
average couponž

Commercial paper$16,0850.22%˙˚—˜ˆ700.95˜˚˛˛—˛˛Total Commercial paper
$16,1550.23%˙Other borrowings (3)$42,1800.53%˙Total
$58,335˙ž






˝˛ˇ
˝˛ˇ
Borrowings under bank lines of credit may be at interest rates based on LIBOR, CD rates, the prime rate or bids submitted by the banks. Citigroup pays commitment fees for its lines of credit.Some of Citigroup™s non-bank subsidiaries have credit facilities with 
Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions, including Citibank, N.A. 

Borrowings under these facilities are secured in accordance with Section 23A 
of the Federal Reserve Act.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI) has borrowing agreements consisting of facilities that CGMHI has been advised are 
available, but where no contractual lending obligation exists. These 
arrangements are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure flexibility in 
meeting CGMHI™s short-term requirements.
Long-Term DebtBalances at December 31,In millions of dollarsWeighted
 average couponMaturities2014˜˚˛˝Citigroup Inc. (1)3.85%2015-2098$122,323˙
4.482015-204425,464−
6.902036-20671,725Bank (3)1.742015-203865,146
ŠŠŠBroker-dealer
 (4)4.062015-20398,399
2.072016-203723˜˘Total
 (5)3.34%$223,080˙$195,868˙
25,487−
1,725Total
$223,080˙…ˇ




˝˛ˇ

…—



…—
−

˝˛ˇ
˝˛ˇ
The Company issues both fixed and variable rate debt in a range of currencies. It uses derivative contracts, primarily interest rate swaps, to 
effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate debt to variable rate debt and 
variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. The maturity structure of the derivatives 
generally corresponds to the maturity structure of the debt being hedged. 
In addition, the Company uses other derivative contracts to manage 
the foreign exchange impact of certain debt issuances. At December 31, 
2014, the Company™s overall weighted average interest rate for long-term 

debt was 3.34% on a contractual basis and 2.48% including the effects of 
derivative contracts.218Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) including trust preferred securities are as follows:In millions of dollars20152016201720182019ThereafterTotal
˙˙˙˙˙˙˙
˜˛˚˛˘˛
Total
˙˙˙˙˙˙˙The following table summarizes the Company™s outstanding trust preferred securities at December 31, 2014:Junior subordinated debentures owned by trustTrust
Issuance dateSecurities issuedLiquidation value
(1)Coupon rate (2)Common shares issued to parentAmountMaturityRedeemable by issuer beginningIn millions of dollars, except share amounts


˙˙˜˚˚˛ˇ



˛ˇ˚˚˚˝˚ˇ
˝˚ˇ

Ÿš‘—
ˆ˚

Total obligated
$2,596$2,602


21919. REGULATORY CAPITAL AND CITIGROUP INC. PARENT COMPANY INFORMATIONCitigroup is subject to risk-based capital and leverage guidelines issued by the 
Federal Reserve Board. Citi™s U.S. insured depository institution subsidiaries, 
including Citibank, N.A., are subject to similar guidelines issued by their 
respective primary federal bank regulatory agencies. These guidelines are 
used to evaluate capital adequacy and include the required minimums 
shown in the following table. The regulatory agencies are required by law 
to take specific prompt actions with respect to institutions that do not meet 
minimum capital standards.The following table sets forth Citigroup™s and Citibank, N.A.™s regulatory 
capital tiers, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets, and 
capital ratios as of December 31, 2014 in accordance with current regulatory 
standards (reflecting Basel III Transition Arrangements):
In millions of dollars, 

except ratios
Stated minimumWell
 capitalized minimumCitigroup (1)Citibank, N.A.(1)−
$166,984$129,135−
166,984129,135−
185,280140,1191,275,012946,333


1,849,2971,367,444−
4.0%N/A13.10%13.65%−
5.56.0%13.1013.65−
8.010.014.5314.81−
4.05.0(4)9.039.44˝˛ˇ−

−−

−−−
−—


As indicated in the table above, Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. were well capitalized under the current federal bank regulatory definitions as of 
December 31, 2014.Banking SubsidiariesŠConstraints on DividendsThere are various legal limitations on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary 
depository institutions to extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply 
funds to Citigroup and its non-bank subsidiaries. The approval of the Office 
of the Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends declared 
in any calendar year exceed amounts specified by the applicable agency™s 
regulations. State-chartered depository institutions are subject to dividend 
limitations imposed by applicable state law.In determining the dividends, each depository institution must also consider its effect on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio 
requirements, as well as policy statements of the federal regulatory 
agencies that indicate that banking organizations should generally pay 
dividends out of current operating earnings. Citigroup received $8.9 billion 
and $12.2 billion in dividends from Citibank, N.A. during 2014 and 
2013, respectively.
Non-Banking SubsidiariesCitigroup also receives dividends from its non-bank subsidiaries. These 
non-bank subsidiaries are generally not subject to regulatory restrictions 
on dividends, although their ability to declare dividends can be restricted by 
capital considerations, as set forth in the table below.In millions of dollarsSubsidiary
JurisdictionNet capital or equivalent
Excess over
 minimum requirement
™—›—



˙ˆˇˆ˜˛


220Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Only Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive IncomeYears
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Revenues$3,121˙˝ˇ˜˝˘˙4,437Net interest expense
$(1,316)˙˙Dividends from subsidiaries8,900˛˝ˇ˚˘˘Non-interest revenue247Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,831˙˙Total operating expenses
$1,980˙˙Income before taxes and equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries$5,851˙˙
(643)819Parent company™s net income
$7,313˙˙Comprehensive income…œ
$7,313˙˙(4,083)…œ
$3,230˙˙Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Only Balance SheetYears
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝Assets$125˙˜˝˝−
604830˛ˇ˚˝˜77,951211,353110,908Total assets
$401,771˙Liabilities€
$185˙−
7621,075149,51227,430
12,273Total liabilities
$191,237˙Total equity
210,534Total liabilities and equity
$401,771˙

221Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Only Cash Flows StatementYears
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜Net cash provided by (used in ) operating activities of continuing operations
$5,940˙˙Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$Š˙Š˙41
155˜˝˝…
(7,986)5˘Net cash provided by 
(used in) investing activities of continuing operations$(7,785)˙˙Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(633)˙˙3,699˜ˇ˜ˆ˚ˇ
(3,636)…
3,297˛˛ˇ˘˚˜(990)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations
$1,737˙˛˛˝˙Net increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks$(108)˙˙˛ˆ˚Cash and due from banks at beginning of period233˛ˆ˝˝Cash and due from banks at end of period$125˙˜˝˝˙˛ˆ˝Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations


$235˙˙5,632
…¨
ˇ
˝˛ˇ

…—
22220. CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)Changes in each component of Citigroup™s Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2014 are as follows:In millions of dollarsNet unrealized 
gains (losses) 
on investment 
securitiesCash flow 
hedges (1)Benefit plans (2)Foreign currency 
translation adjustment, 
net of hedges (CTA)
 (3)(4)Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ

˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ



˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ


…
Balance at December 31, 2014
$57$(909)$(5,159)$(17,205)$(23,216)˘
˘–ƒ

˘
˘˘Ł˚ˇ

˘˘ˇˇ


˘˘Ł˚ˇ


˘
˘‡›
˘–ƒ

–ƒ
˘
˘


˘˘

The pretax and after-tax changes in each component of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2014 
are as follows:In millions of dollarsPretaxTax effect
After-tax
˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ


˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ


˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ


ChangeBalance, December 31, 2014
$(31,060)$7,844$(23,216)223During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company recognized a pretax loss of $542 million ($334 million net of tax) related to amounts reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into the Consolidated Statement of Income. See details in the table below:Increase (decrease) in AOCI due to amounts reclassified to Consolidated 
Statement of IncomeIn millions of dollarsYear ended December 31, 2014
$(570)
424
$(146)Š
53Net realized (gains) losses on investment securities, after-tax
 (1)$(93)
$260149
$409Š
(158)Amortization of cash flow hedges, after-tax
 (2)$251

$(40)24376
$279Š
(103)Amortization of benefit plans, after-tax
 (3)$176Foreign currency translation adjustment
$ŠTotal amounts reclassified out of AOCI, pretax
$542Total tax effect
(208)Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, after-tax
$334˘Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net
Gross impairment losses
˘


˘˘
˘˘
224During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company recognized a pretax loss of $1,071 million ($649 million net of tax) related to amounts reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into the Consolidated Statement of Income. See details in the table below:Increase (decrease) in AOCI due to amounts reclassified to Consolidated 
Statement of IncomeIn millions of dollarsYear ended December 31, 2013


Š
Net realized (gains) losses on investment securities, after-tax
 (1)

Š
Amortization of cash flow hedges, after-tax
 (2)

…

Š
Amortization of benefit plans, after-tax
 (3)Foreign currency translation adjustment
Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, pretax
Total tax effect
Total amounts reclassified out of AOCI, after-tax
˘Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net
Gross impairment losses
˘


˘˘
˘˘
22521. PREFERRED STOCKThe following table summarizes the Company™s preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:Carrying value
 in millions of dollarsIssuance dateRedeemable by  issuer beginningDividend rateRedemption price per  depositary 
 share/preference shareNumber of depositary 
 sharesDecember 31,  2014˘˘‡‡˘

$97˘¡˘

121˘‡˘

1,500˘˜˘

750˘

575˘
ﬂ˚
1,250˘Ł˘

950

1,495

480…
ﬂ˚
1,750…

1,500…$10,468˘
˘–˚–
˘˘ﬂ˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
˘–˚
˘˘

˘–˚–
˘˘
˘˘Ł•˛–
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘–
˘
–
˘–˚–
˘˘
˘˘Ł•˛–
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘
˘
–
˘–˚–
˘˘ﬂ˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘˘
˘˘Ł•˛–
˘˘
˘
˘–˚–
˘˘
–
˘–˚–
˘˘ﬂ˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
˘–˚
˘˘Ł•˝ˆ
˘˘
˘˘
˘–˚
˘
˘–˚˘ﬂ˚–
˘˘
˘˘–˚
˘
˘–˚˘ﬂ˚–
˘˘
˘˘
˘
–˚
–˚˘ﬂ˚˘
˘
–˚
–˚˘ﬂ˚˘
During 2014, Citi distributed approximately $511 million in dividends on its outstanding preferred stock. Based on its preferred stock outstanding 
as of December 31, 2014, Citi estimates it will distribute preferred dividends 
of approximately $656 million during 2015, in each case assuming such 
dividends are approved by the Citi Board of Directors.22622. SECURITIZATIONS AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIESUses of Special Purpose EntitiesA special purpose entity (SPE) is an entity designed to fulfill a specific limited need of the company that organized it. The principal uses of SPEs 
by Citi are to obtain liquidity and favorable capital treatment by securitizing 
certain financial assets, to assist clients in securitizing their financial assets 
and to create investment products for clients. SPEs may be organized in 
various legal forms, including trusts, partnerships or corporations. In a 
securitization, the company transferring assets to an SPE converts all (or a 
portion) of those assets into cash before they would have been realized in 
the normal course of business through the SPE™s issuance of debt and equity 
instruments, certificates, commercial paper or other notes of indebtedness. 
These issuances are recorded on the balance sheet of the SPE, which may 
or may not be consolidated onto the balance sheet of the company that 
organized the SPE.Investors usually have recourse only to the assets in the SPE, but may also benefit from other credit enhancements, such as a collateral account, 
a line of credit or a liquidity facility, such as a liquidity put option or asset 

purchase agreement. Because of these enhancements, the SPE issuances 
typically obtain a more favorable credit rating than the transferor could 
obtain for its own debt issuances. This results in less expensive financing 
costs than unsecured debt. The SPE may also enter into derivative contracts 
in order to convert the yield or currency of the underlying assets to match 
the needs of the SPE investors or to limit or change the credit risk of the SPE. 
Citigroup may be the provider of certain credit enhancements as well as the 
counterparty to any related derivative contracts.Most of Citigroup™s SPEs are variable interest entities (VIEs), as 
described below.
Variable Interest Entities
VIEs are entities that have either a total equity investment that is insufficient 
to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated 
financial support, or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a 
controlling financial interest (i.e., ability to make significant decisions 
through voting rights and a right to receive the expected residual returns 
of the entity or an obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity). 
Investors that finance the VIE through debt or equity interests or other 
counterparties providing other forms of support, such as guarantees, 
subordinated fee arrangements or certain types of derivative contracts are 
variable interest holders in the entity.The variable interest holder, if any, that has a controlling financial interest 
in a VIE is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the 
VIE. Citigroup would be deemed to have a controlling financial interest and 
be the primary beneficiary if it has both of the following characteristics:power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; andan obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be 
significant to the VIE, or a right to receive benefits from the entity that 
could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company must evaluate each VIE to understand the purpose and design of the entity, the role the Company had in the entity™s design 
and its involvement in the VIE™s ongoing activities. The Company then 

must evaluate which activities most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the VIE and who has the power to direct such activities.For those VIEs where the Company determines that it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic 

performance, the Company must then evaluate its economic interests, if any, 

and determine whether it could absorb losses or receive benefits that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. When evaluating whether the Company 
has an obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant, it 
considers the maximum exposure to such loss without consideration of 
probability. Such obligations could be in various forms, including, but not 

limited to, debt and equity investments, guarantees, liquidity agreements and 
certain derivative contracts.In various other transactions, the Company may: (i) act as a derivative counterparty (for example, interest rate swap, cross-currency swap, or 
purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE); 
(ii) act as underwriter or placement agent; (iii) provide administrative, 
trustee or other services; or (iv) make a market in debt securities or other 
instruments issued by VIEs. The Company generally considers such 
involvement, by itself, not to be variable interests and thus not an indicator 
of power or potentially significant benefits or losses.See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of impending changes to targeted areas of consolidation guidance.227228Citigroup™s involvement with consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs with which the Company holds significant variable interests or has continuing involvement 
through servicing a majority of the assets in a VIE, each as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, is presented below:In millions of dollarsAs of December 31, 2014
Maximum exposure to loss in significant unconsolidated VIEs
 (1)Funded exposures
 (2)Unfunded exposures
CiticorpTotal
 involvement with SPE assetsConsolidated VIE / SPE assetsSignificant unconsolidated VIE assets (3)Debt investmentsEquity investmentsFunding commitmentsGuarantees and derivatives
Total

$60,211$60,211$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
Œ›ﬁ›˘˚
236,771Š236,7715,063ŠŠ195,082
8,0711,2396,832560ŠŠŠ560
29,18129,181ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
3,382Š3,38245ŠŠŠ45
13,099Š13,0991,692ŠŠŠ1,69262,5771,14961,42822,891632,18533325,47212,2806,6715,6093Š3,670Š3,67316,8257016,7552,0122,0211,321Š5,354
1,7451371,60810ŠŠ102031,4741,09630,37816382124Š522Š
2,633Š2,633Š6ŠŠ65,6852965,3891831,45123731,730Total
$483,934$100,050$383,884$32,475$3,923$7,323$435$44,156Citi Holdings
$292$60$232$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
Œ›ﬁ›˘˚
28,077Š28,077150ŠŠ91241
9,817659,75217ŠŠ118
2,235Š2,235174ŠŠ86260
1,020Š1,02054ŠŠŠ541,32321,32137386Š1266,881Š6,8812176904Š1,082518Š518ŠŠŠŠŠ2,6132,613ŠŠŠŠŠŠTotal
$52,776$2,740$50,036$434$179$990$178$1,781Total Citigroup
$536,710$102,790$433,920$32,909$4,102$8,313$613$45,937˘
˘
˘
˘
˘˘˘ﬁˆˆ˘
˘˘ﬁˆˆ˘
229In millions of dollars

˘˘CiticorpŠ
˘˘˘
˘˘
˘˘˘˘˘˘˘
Š

………………
Œ›ﬁ›˘˚
………
………˘
………………
…………
…………………
…………Š
…………Total
Citi Holdings
……………
Œ›ﬁ›˘˚
………
……
………………
………
………………………………………Total
Total Citigroup
˘
˘
˘
˘
˘˘˘ﬁˆˆ˘
˘˘ﬁˆˆ˘
230The previous tables do not include:certain venture capital investments made by some of the Company™s private equity subsidiaries, as the Company accounts for these investments 
in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide (codified in 
ASC 946);certain limited partnerships that are investment funds that qualify for 
the deferral from the requirements of ASC 810 where the Company is the 
general partner and the limited partners have the right to replace the 
general partner or liquidate the funds; certain investment funds for which the Company provides investment 
management services and personal estate trusts for which the Company 
provides administrative, trustee and/or investment management services; VIEs structured by third parties where the Company holds securities in 
inventory, as these investments are made on arm™s-length terms; certain positions in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities 
held by the Company, which are classified as Trading account assets or Investments, where the Company has no other involvement with 
the related securitization entity deemed to be significant (for more 
information on these positions, see Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements); certain representations and warranties exposures in legacy Securities and Banking-sponsored mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations, 
where the Company has no variable interest or continuing involvement 
as servicer. The outstanding balance of mortgage loans securitized during 
2005 to 2008 where the Company has no variable interest or continuing 
involvement as servicer was approximately $14 billion and $16 billion at 
December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively; and certain representations and warranties exposures in Citigroup residential 
mortgage securitizations, where the original mortgage loan balances are 
no longer outstanding.The asset balances for consolidated VIEs represent the carrying amounts of the assets consolidated by the Company. The carrying amount may 

represent the amortized cost or the current fair value of the assets depending 
on the legal form of the asset (e.g., security or loan) and the Company™s 

standard accounting policies for the asset type and line of business.The asset balances for unconsolidated VIEs where the Company has significant involvement represent the most current information available 
to the Company. In most cases, the asset balances represent an amortized 

cost basis without regard to impairments in fair value, unless fair value 
information is readily available to the Company. For VIEs that obtain 

asset exposures synthetically through derivative instruments (for example, 
synthetic CDOs), the tables generally include the full original notional 
amount of the derivative as an asset balance.The maximum funded exposure represents the balance sheet carrying amount of the Company™s investment in the VIE. It reflects the initial 

amount of cash invested in the VIE adjusted for any accrued interest and 
cash principal payments received. The carrying amount may also be 
adjusted for increases or declines in fair value or any impairment in value 
recognized in earnings. The maximum exposure of unfunded positions 
represents the remaining undrawn committed amount, including liquidity 
and credit facilities provided by the Company, or the notional amount 

of a derivative instrument considered to be a variable interest. In certain 
transactions, the Company has entered into derivative instruments or 
other arrangements that are not considered variable interests in the VIE 
(e.g., interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, or where the Company is 
the purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE). 
Receivables under such arrangements are not included in the maximum 
exposure amounts.231Funding Commitments for Significant Unconsolidated VIEsŠLiquidity Facilities and Loan Commitments
The following table presents the notional amount of liquidity facilities and 
loan commitments that are classified as funding commitments in the VIE 
tables above as of December 31, 2014 and 2013:December 31, 2014

In millions of dollarsLiquidity facilities
Loan commitmentsCiticorp$5$2,180†††3,670Š…Š1,321…Š124…Š23…Total Citicorp
$3,675$3,648Citi Holdings$Š$86…Š904…Total Citi Holdings
$Š$990…Total Citigroup funding commitments
$3,675$4,638Citicorp and Citi Holdings Consolidated VIEsThe Company engages in on-balance sheet securitizations, which are 
securitizations that do not qualify for sales treatment; thus, the assets remain 
on the Company™s balance sheet, and any proceeds received are recognized 
as secured liabilities. The consolidated VIEs included in the tables below 
represent hundreds of separate entities with which the Company is involved. 
In general, the third-party investors in the obligations of consolidated VIEs 
have legal recourse only to the assets of the respective VIEs and do not have 
such recourse to the Company, except where the Company has provided 
a guarantee to the investors or is the counterparty to certain derivative transactions involving the VIE. Thus, the Company™s maximum legal 
exposure to loss related to consolidated VIEs is significantly less than the 
carrying value of the consolidated VIE assets due to outstanding third-party 
financing. Intercompany assets and liabilities are excluded from the table. 
All VIE assets are restricted from being sold or pledged as collateral. The cash 
flows from these assets are the only source used to pay down the associated 
liabilities, which are non-recourse to the Company™s general assets.The following table presents the carrying amounts and classifications of consolidated assets that are collateral for consolidated VIE obligations as of 
December 31, 2014 and 2013:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014

CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup
$0.1$0.2$0.3Š
0.7Š0.7…8.0Š8.0…Š
90.62.593.10.6Š0.6Total assets
$100.0$2.7$102.7$22.7$Š$22.7…38.12.040.1
0.80.10.9Total liabilities
$61.6$2.1$63.7232Citicorp and Citi Holdings Significant Interests in Unconsolidated VIEsŠBalance Sheet Classification
The following table presents the carrying amounts and classification of 
significant variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2014 
and 2013:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014

CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup
Š
$7.4$0.2$7.62.40.22.6Š
24.90.125.01.80.22.0Total assets
$36.5$0.7$37.2Credit Card Securitizations
The Company securitizes credit card receivables through trusts established to 
purchase the receivables. Citigroup transfers receivables into the trusts on a 
non-recourse basis. Credit card securitizations are revolving securitizations; 
as customers pay their credit card balances, the cash proceeds are used to 
purchase new receivables and replenish the receivables in the trust.Substantially all of the Company™s credit card securitization activity is 
through two trustsŠCitibank Credit Card Master Trust (Master Trust) and 

the Citibank Omni Master Trust (Omni Trust), with the substantial majority 

through the Master Trust. These trusts are consolidated entities because, as 

servicer, Citigroup has the power to direct the activities that most significantly 
impact the economic performance of the trusts, Citigroup holds a seller™s 

interest and certain securities issued by the trusts, and also provides liquidity 
facilities to the trusts, which could result in potentially significant losses or 
benefits from the trusts. Accordingly, the transferred credit card receivables 

remain on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet with no gain or loss recognized. 

The debt issued by the trusts to third parties is included in Citi™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheet. The Company utilizes securitizations as one of the sources of funding for its business in North America. The following table reflects amounts related 
to the Company™s securitized credit card receivables as of December
 31, 2014 
and 2013:CiticorpCiti HoldingsIn billions of dollarsDecember 31,  2014˘
December 31,  2014˘

$37.0$Š…
10.1Š
14.2Š…Total ownership interests in principal amount of trust credit card receivables
$61.3$ŠCredit Card SecuritizationsŠCiticorp
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to 
Citicorp™s credit card securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 
2013 and 2012:In billions of dollars2014
$12.5—˚
(7.8)Credit Card SecuritizationsŠCiti Holdings
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to 
Citi Holdings™ credit card securitizations for the years ended December 31, 
2014, 2013 and 2012:In billions of dollars2014
$0.1—˚
Š233Managed LoansAfter securitization of credit card receivables, the Company continues to 
maintain credit card customer account relationships and provides servicing 
for receivables transferred to the trusts. As a result, the Company considers 
the securitized credit card receivables to be part of the business it manages. 
As Citigroup consolidates the credit card trusts, all managed securitized card 
receivables are on-balance sheet.Funding, Liquidity Facilities and Subordinated InterestsAs noted above, Citigroup securitizes credit card receivables through two 
securitization trustsŠMaster Trust, which is part of Citicorp, and Omni 
Trust, which is also substantially all part of Citicorp. The liabilities of the 
trusts are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, excluding those 
retained by Citigroup.Master Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes. Some of the term 
notes are issued to multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the term notes issued by the Master Trust was 2.8 years as 

of December 31, 2014 and 3.1 years as of December 31, 2013.Master Trust Liabilities (at par value)In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2014˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˙

$35.7
8.2Total Master Trust liabilities
$43.9ˆ“˝ˇThe Omni Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes, some of which 
are purchased by multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the third-party term notes issued by the Omni Trust was 

1.9 years as of December 31, 2014 and 0.7 years as of December 31, 2013.Omni Trust Liabilities (at par value)In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2014˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˙

$1.3“˝“
1.9Total Omni Trust liabilities
$3.2†˝ˆMortgage Securitizations
The Company provides a wide range of mortgage loan products to a diverse 
customer base. Once originated, the Company often securitizes these loans 
through the use of VIEs. These VIEs are funded through the issuance of trust 
certificates backed solely by the transferred assets. These certificates have 
the same life as the transferred assets. In addition to providing a source of 
liquidity and less expensive funding, securitizing these assets also reduces 
the Company™s credit exposure to the borrowers. These mortgage loan 
securitizations are primarily non-recourse, thereby effectively transferring 
the risk of future credit losses to the purchasers of the securities issued by the 
trust. However, the Company™s U.S. consumer mortgage business generally 
retains the servicing rights and in certain instances retains investment 
securities, interest-only strips and residual interests in future cash flows 
from the trusts and also provides servicing for a limited number of ICG securitizations. ICG and Citi Holdings do not retain servicing for their 
mortgage securitizations.The Company securitizes mortgage loans generally through either a government-sponsored agency, such as Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie 

Mac (U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages), or private-label (non-agency-
sponsored mortgages) securitization. The Company is not the primary 
beneficiary of its U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because 
Citigroup does not have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most 
significantly impact the entities™ economic performance. Therefore, Citi does 
not consolidate these U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations.The Company does not consolidate certain non-agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because Citi is either not the servicer with the power 
to direct the significant activities of the entity or Citi is the servicer but the 
servicing relationship is deemed to be a fiduciary relationship and, therefore, 
Citi is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the entity.
In certain instances, the Company has (i) the power to direct the activities and (ii) the obligation to either absorb losses or the right to receive 
benefits that could be potentially significant to its non-agency-sponsored 
mortgage securitizations and, therefore, is the primary beneficiary and thus 
consolidates the VIE.234Mortgage SecuritizationsŠCiticorpThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to 
Citicorp mortgage securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 
2013 and 2012:2014In billions of dollarsU.S. agency- 
 sponsored  mortgagesNon-agency- 
 sponsored  mortgages˙
˙˙
˙
˙˙

$27.4$11.8
0.4Š
0.1ŠAgency and non-agency securitization gains for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $160 million and $53 million, respectively.
Agency and non-agency securitization gains for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $203 million and $30 million, respectively.
Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests at the date of sale or securitization of mortgage receivables for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:December 31, 2014
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency- 
 sponsored mortgagesSenior  interestsSubordinated  interests
0.0% to 14.7%1.4% to 6.6%2.6% to 9.1%…
11.0%4.2%7.8%
0.0% to 23.1%0.0% to 7.0%0.5% to 8.9%…
6.2%5.4%3.2%
NM40.0% to 67.1%8.9% to 58.5%…
NM56.3%43.1%…
0.0 to 9.7 years2.6 to 11.1 years3.0 to 14.5 years

—ˇ–⁄˝‹˝
˙
˙
˙
›››…
›ˆ˝“››
›››…
•˝•›››
ƒ‰››…
ƒ‰››…
—ˇ–˙
˙˙


˙
235The interests retained by the Company range from highly rated and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the key assumptions used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions, are set forth in the tables below. The negative effect of each change is calculated independently, 

holding all other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may 
not be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key 
assumptions may be less than the sum of the individual effects shown below.
December 31, 2014
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency- 
 sponsored mortgagesSenior  interestsSubordinated  interests
 0.0% to 21.2%1.1% to 17.7%1.3% to 19.6%…
8.0%4.9%8.2%
6.0% to 41.4%2.0% to 100.0%0.5% to 16.2%…
14.7%10.1%7.2%
NM0.0% to 92.4%13.7% to 83.8%…
NM54.6%52.5%…
0.0 to 16.0 years0.3 to 14.4 years0.0 to 24.4 years

—ˇ–⁄˝‹˝
˙
˙
˙
›››…
›•˝•››
›››…
ˇˇ˝ˇ›†˝“››
˙ƒ‰››…
˙ƒ‰››…
—ˇ–˙
˙˙


˙
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior  interestsSubordinated  interestsCarrying value of retained interests
$2,224$285$554
$(64)$(5)$(30)(124)(9)(57)
(86)(1)(9)(165)(2)(18)
NM(2)(9)NM(3)(16)236In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests

–—†––—ˇ“−–—ˇˇ–—“−–
–—ˇ––––—ˇ“–
ƒ‰––ƒ‰—ˆ–—ˇ“–—ˇ–˙
˙
Mortgage SecuritizationsŠCiti HoldingsThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to Citi 
Holdings mortgage securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 
2013 and 2012:2014In billions of dollarsU.S. agency-
sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-
 sponsored mortgages⁄˝‹˝
˙
⁄˝‹˝
˙

$0.4$Š
0.1ŠGains recognized on the securitization of U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages during 2014 were $54 million. Agency securitization gains for the 
years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $20 million and $45 million, 
respectively.
The Company did not securitize non-agency-sponsored mortgages for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012.Similar to Citicorp mortgage securitizations discussed above, the range in the key assumptions is due to the different characteristics of the interests 
retained by the Company. The interests retained range from highly rated 

and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the key assumptions used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 
10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions, are set forth in the tables below. 

The negative effect of each change is calculated independently, holding all 

other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may not in fact 
be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key 
assumptions may be less than the sum of the individual effects shown below.
237December 31, 2014
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests(2)
1.9% to 19.2%5.1% to 47.1%Š…
13.7%36.3%Š
20.4% to 32.3%6.7% to 20.0%Š…
23.9%16.6%Š
NM0.3% to 73.7%Š…
NM19.2%Š…
3.3 to 4.6 years3.9 to 6.4 yearsŠ

—ˇ–⁄˝‹˝
˙
˙
˙
››‚…
››‚
››‚…
›ˇ•˝†›‚
ƒ‰›‚…
ƒ‰›‚…
‚—ˇ–˙
˙
˙ˆˇ˘
˙
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests
$150$25$Š
$(5)$(2)$Š(10)(4)Š
(7)(2)Š(14)(3)Š
NM(4)ŠNM(7)ŠIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
⁄˝‹˝
˙

—ˇ–˙
˙Carrying value of retained interests
•−•‚
—ˇ†–—ˆ–‚–—•–‚
‚—ˆˆ–—ˆ–‚—†•–—†–‚
ƒ‰—•–‚ƒ‰—ˇˇ–‚—ˇ–˙
˙
238Mortgage Servicing RightsIn connection with the securitization of mortgage loans, the Company™s 
U.S. consumer mortgage business generally retains the servicing rights, 
which entitle the Company to a future stream of cash flows based on the 
outstanding principal balances of the loans and the contractual servicing 
fee. Failure to service the loans in accordance with contractual requirements 
may lead to a termination of the servicing rights and the loss of future 
servicing fees.These transactions create an intangible asset referred to as mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), which are recorded at fair value on Citi™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet. The fair value of Citi™s capitalized MSRs was 

$1.8 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Of these amounts, approximately $1.7 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, 

were specific to Citicorp, with the remainder to Citi Holdings. The MSRs 
correspond to principal loan balances of $224 billion and $286 billion as of 
December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The following table summarizes 

the changes in capitalized MSRs for the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2013:In millions of dollars2014Balance, beginning of year
$2,718
217†ˆ“˙(344)˙—ˇ–(429)–(317)–Balance, as of December 31
$1,845—ˇ–˙
The fair value of the MSRs is primarily affected by changes in prepayments of mortgages that result from shifts in mortgage interest rates. 
Specifically, higher interest rates tend to lead to declining prepayments, 

which causes the fair value of the MSRs to increase. In managing this risk, 
the Company economically hedges a significant portion of the value of its 
MSRs through the use of interest rate derivative contracts, forward purchase 
and sale commitments of mortgage-backed securities and purchased 
securities classified as Trading account assets
.The Company receives fees during the course of servicing previously securitized mortgages. The amounts of these fees for the years ended 
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were as follows:In millions of dollars2014
$638
25†•
56Total MSR fees
$719These fees are classified in the Consolidated Statement of Income as Other revenue.Re-securitizations
The Company engages in re-securitization transactions in which debt 
securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial interests. 
During the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, Citi transferred non-
agency (private-label) securities with an original par value of approximately 
$1.2 billion and $955 million, respectively, to re-securitization entities. These 
securities are backed by either residential or commercial mortgages and are 
often structured on behalf of clients.As of December 31, 2014, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled 
approximately $545 million (including $194 million related to 
re-securitization transactions executed in 2014), which has been recorded 
in Trading account assets
. Of this amount, approximately $133 million 
was related to senior beneficial interests and approximately $412 million 
was related to subordinated beneficial interests. As of December 31, 2013, 
the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization 
transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately $425 million (including 
$131 million related to re-securitization transactions executed in 2013). 
Of this amount, approximately $58 million was related to senior beneficial 
interests, and approximately $367 million was related to subordinated 
beneficial interests. The original par value of private-label re-securitization 
transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest as of December 31, 2014 
and 2013 was approximately $5.1 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively.
The Company also re-securitizes U.S. government-agency guaranteed mortgage-backed (agency) securities. During the years ended 
December 31, 2014 and 2013, Citi transferred agency securities with a fair 
value of approximately $22.5 billion and $26.3 billion, respectively, to 

re-securitization entities.As of December 31, 2014, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in agency re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately 
$1.8 billion (including $1.5 billion related to re-securitization transactions 
executed in 2014) compared to $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2013 
(including $1.2 billion related to re-securitization transactions executed in 
2013), which is recorded in Trading account assets
. The original fair value 
of agency re-securitization transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest 
as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 was approximately $73.0 billion and 
$75.5 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company did not consolidate any private-label or agency re-securitization entities.239Citi-Administered Asset-Backed Commercial Paper ConduitsThe Company is active in the asset-backed commercial paper conduit 
business as administrator of several multi-seller commercial paper conduits 
and also as a service provider to single-seller and other commercial paper 
conduits sponsored by third parties.Citi™s multi-seller commercial paper conduits are designed to provide 
the Company™s clients access to low-cost funding in the commercial paper 

markets. The conduits purchase assets from or provide financing facilities to 
clients and are funded by issuing commercial paper to third-party investors. 
The conduits generally do not purchase assets originated by the Company. 

The funding of the conduits is facilitated by the liquidity support and credit 
enhancements provided by the Company.
As administrator to Citi™s conduits, the Company is generally responsible 
for selecting and structuring assets purchased or financed by the conduits, 
making decisions regarding the funding of the conduits, including 
determining the tenor and other features of the commercial paper issued, 
monitoring the quality and performance of the conduits™ assets, and 
facilitating the operations and cash flows of the conduits. In return, the 
Company earns structuring fees from customers for individual transactions 
and earns an administration fee from the conduit, which is equal to the 
income from the client program and liquidity fees of the conduit after 
payment of conduit expenses. This administration fee is fairly stable, since 
most risks and rewards of the underlying assets are passed back to the clients. 
Once the asset pricing is negotiated, most ongoing income, costs and fees are 
relatively stable as a percentage of the conduit™s size.
The conduits administered by the Company do not generally invest in liquid securities that are formally rated by third parties. The assets are 
privately negotiated and structured transactions that are generally designed 
to be held by the conduit, rather than actively traded and sold. The yield 
earned by the conduit on each asset is generally tied to the rate on the 
commercial paper issued by the conduit, thus passing interest rate risk to the 
client. Each asset purchased by the conduit is structured with transaction-
specific credit enhancement features provided by the third-party client seller, 

including over collateralization, cash and excess spread collateral accounts, 
direct recourse or third-party guarantees. These credit enhancements are 
sized with the objective of approximating a credit rating of A or above, based 
on the Company™s internal risk ratings. At December
 31, 2014 and 2013, the 
conduits had approximately $29.2 billion and $31.8 billion of purchased 
assets outstanding, respectively, and had incremental funding commitments 

with clients of approximately $15.3 billion and $13.5 billion, respectively.
Substantially all of the funding of the conduits is in the form of short-term commercial paper. At the respective periods ended December
 31, 2014 
and 2013, the weighted average remaining lives of the commercial paper 
issued by the conduits were approximately 57 and 67 days, respectively. 
The primary credit enhancement provided to the conduit investors is in the form of transaction-specific credit enhancements described above. One 
conduit holds only loans that are fully guaranteed primarily by AAA-rated 
government agencies that support export and development financing 
programs. In addition to the transaction-specific credit enhancements, the 
conduits, other than the government guaranteed loan conduit, have obtained a letter of credit from the Company, which is equal to at least 8% to 10% of 

the conduit™s assets with a minimum of $200 million. The letters of credit 

provided by the Company to the conduits total approximately $2.3 billion as 
of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The net result across multi-seller conduits 
administered by the Company, other than the government guaranteed 

loan conduit, is that, in the event defaulted assets exceed the transaction-
specific credit enhancements described above, any losses in each conduit are 
allocated first to the Company and then the commercial paper investors.The Company also provides the conduits with two forms of liquidity agreements that are used to provide funding to the conduits in the event 
of a market disruption, among other events. Each asset of the conduits is 
supported by a transaction-specific liquidity facility in the form of an asset 
purchase agreement (APA). Under the APA, the Company has generally 

agreed to purchase non-defaulted eligible receivables from the conduit at par. 

The APA is not generally designed to provide credit support to the conduit, 

as it generally does not permit the purchase of defaulted or impaired assets. 
Any funding under the APA will likely subject the underlying conduit clients 

to increased interest costs. In addition, the Company provides the conduits 
with program-wide liquidity in the form of short-term lending commitments. 
Under these commitments, the Company has agreed to lend to the conduits 
in the event of a short-term disruption in the commercial paper market, 
subject to specified conditions. The Company receives fees for providing 
both types of liquidity agreements and considers these fees to be on fair 
market terms.Finally, the Company is one of several named dealers in the commercial 
paper issued by the conduits and earns a market-based fee for providing 
such services. Along with third-party dealers, the Company makes a market 
in the commercial paper and may from time to time fund commercial 
paper pending sale to a third party. On specific dates with less liquidity in 

the market, the Company may hold in inventory commercial paper issued 
by conduits administered by the Company, as well as conduits administered 

by third parties. Separately, in the normal course of business, the Company 

invests in commercial paper, including commercial paper issued by the 

Company™s conduits. At December
 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company owned 
$10.6 billion and $13.9 billion, respectively, of the commercial paper issued 

by its administered conduits. The Company™s investments were not driven by 

market illiquidity and the Company is not obligated under any agreement to 
purchase the commercial paper issued by the conduits.The asset-backed commercial paper conduits are consolidated by the Company. The Company determined that, through its roles as administrator 

and liquidity provider, it had the power to direct the activities that most 

significantly impacted the entities™ economic performance. These powers 
included its ability to structure and approve the assets purchased by the 
conduits, its ongoing surveillance and credit mitigation activities, its ability 
to sell or repurchase assets out of the conduits, and its liability management. 
In addition, as a result of all the Company™s involvement described above, 

it was concluded that the Company had an economic interest that could 
potentially be significant. However, the assets and liabilities of the conduits 

are separate and apart from those of Citigroup. No assets of any conduit are 
available to satisfy the creditors of Citigroup or any of its other subsidiaries.240During the second quarter of 2013, Citi consolidated the government guaranteed loan conduit it administers that was previously not consolidated due to changes in the primary risks and design of the conduit that were 
identified as a reconsideration event. Citi, as the administrator and liquidity 
provider, previously determined it had an economic interest that could 

potentially be significant. Upon the reconsideration event, it was determined 
that Citi had the power to direct the activities that most significantly 
impacted the conduit™s economic performance. The impact of the 

consolidation resulted in an increase of assets and liabilities of approximately 

$7 billion each and a net pretax gain to the Consolidated Statement of 
Income of approximately $40 million.Collateralized Debt and Loan ObligationsA securitized collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a VIE that purchases a 
pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities and synthetic exposures 
through derivatives on asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of 
equity and notes to investors.A cash CDO, or arbitrage CDO, is a CDO designed to take advantage of the difference between the yield on a portfolio of selected assets, typically 
residential mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of funding the CDO 
through the sale of notes to investors. ﬁCash flowﬂ CDOs are entities in which 
the CDO passes on cash flows from a pool of assets, while ﬁmarket valueﬂ 
CDOs pay to investors the market value of the pool of assets owned by the 
CDO at maturity. In these transactions, all of the equity and notes issued by 

the CDO are funded, as the cash is needed to purchase the debt securities.A synthetic CDO is similar to a cash CDO, except that the CDO obtains exposure to all or a portion of the referenced assets synthetically through 
derivative instruments, such as credit default swaps. Because the CDO does 
not need to raise cash sufficient to purchase the entire referenced portfolio, 
a substantial portion of the senior tranches of risk is typically passed on to 
CDO investors in the form of unfunded liabilities or derivative instruments. 
The CDO writes credit protection on select referenced debt securities to the 
Company or third parties. Risk is then passed on to the CDO investors in 
the form of funded notes or purchased credit protection through derivative 
instruments. Any cash raised from investors is invested in a portfolio of 
collateral securities or investment contracts. The collateral is then used 
to support the obligations of the CDO on the credit default swaps written 
to counterparties.A securitized collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is substantially similar to the CDO transactions described above, except that the assets owned by 
the VIE (either cash instruments or synthetic exposures through derivative 
instruments) are corporate loans and to a lesser extent corporate bonds, 
rather than asset-backed debt securities.A third-party asset manager is typically retained by the CDO/CLO to select the pool of assets and manage those assets over the term of the VIE.The Company earns fees for warehousing assets prior to the creation of a ﬁcash flowﬂ or ﬁmarket valueﬂ CDO/CLO, structuring CDOs/CLOs and 
placing debt securities with investors. In addition, the Company has retained 
interests in many of the CDOs/CLOs it has structured and makes a market in 
the issued notes.The Company™s continuing involvement in synthetic CDOs/CLOs generally 
includes purchasing credit protection through credit default swaps with 
the CDO/CLO, owning a portion of the capital structure of the CDO/CLO in 
the form of both unfunded derivative positions (primarily ﬁsuper-seniorﬂ 

exposures discussed below) and funded notes, entering into interest-rate 
swap and total-return swap transactions with the CDO/CLO, lending to the 
CDO/CLO, and making a market in the funded notes.Where a CDO/CLO entity issues preferred shares (or subordinated notes that are the equivalent form), the preferred shares generally represent an 
insufficient amount of equity (less than 10%) and create the presumption 
that preferred shares are insufficient to finance the entity™s activities 

without subordinated financial support. In addition, although the preferred 
shareholders generally have full exposure to expected losses on the collateral 
and uncapped potential to receive expected residual returns, they generally 
do not have the ability to make decisions significantly affecting the entity™s 

financial results because of their limited role in making day-to-day decisions 
and their limited ability to remove the asset manager. Because one or both 

of the above conditions will generally be met, the Company has concluded, 
even where a CDO/CLO entity issued preferred shares, the entity should be 
classified as a VIE.In general, the asset manager, through its ability to purchase and sell 
assets orŠwhere the reinvestment period of a CDO/CLO has expiredŠthe 
ability to sell assets, will have the power to direct the activities of the entity 
that most significantly impact the economic performance of the CDO/CLO. 
However, where a CDO/CLO has experienced an event of default or an 

optional redemption period has gone into effect, the activities of the asset 
manager may be curtailed and/or certain additional rights will generally be 
provided to the investors in a CDO/CLO entity, including the right to direct 

the liquidation of the CDO/CLO entity.
The Company has retained significant portions of the ﬁsuper-seniorﬂ 
positions issued by certain CDOs. These positions are referred to as ﬁsuper-

seniorﬂ because they represent the most senior positions in the CDO and, at 
the time of structuring, were senior to tranches rated AAA by independent 
rating agencies.The Company does not generally have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
CDOs/CLOs, as this power is generally held by a third-party asset manager 
of the CDO/CLO. As such, those CDOs/CLOs are not consolidated. The 
Company may consolidate the CDO/CLO when: (i) the Company is the asset 
manager and no other single investor has the unilateral ability to remove 
the Company or unilaterally cause the liquidation of the CDO/CLO, or the 
Company is not the asset manager but has a unilateral right to remove the 
third-party asset manager or unilaterally liquidate the CDO/CLO and receive 
the underlying assets, and (ii) the Company has economic exposure to the 
entity that could be potentially significant to the entity.
241The Company continues to monitor its involvement in unconsolidated CDOs/CLOs to assess future consolidation risk. For example, if the Company were to acquire additional interests in these entities and obtain the right, due 
to an event of default trigger being met, to unilaterally liquidate or direct 
the activities of a CDO/CLO, the Company may be required to consolidate 
the asset entity. For cash CDOs/CLOs, the net result of such consolidation 

would be to gross up the Company™s balance sheet by the current fair value 

of the securities held by third parties and assets held by the CDO/CLO, which 
amounts are not considered material. For synthetic CDOs/CLOs, the net result 
of such consolidation may reduce the Company™s balance sheet, because 

intercompany derivative receivables and payables would be eliminated in 
consolidation, and other assets held by the CDO/CLO and the securities held 
by third parties would be recognized at their current fair values.Key Assumptions and Retained InterestsŠCiticorpAt December 31, 2014 and 2013, the key assumptions used to value retained 
interests in CLOs, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 
10% and 20% are set forth in the tables below:December 31, 2014


1.4% to 1.6%›December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsCLOCarrying value of retained interests
$1,539Œ
$(9)(18)
In millions of dollarsCarrying value of retained interests
ˇ˘ˆˆˆŒ
–—ˇ“–Key Assumptions and Retained InterestsŠCiti Holdings
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the key assumptions used to value retained 
interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 
20% are set forth in the tables below: December 31, 2014
CDOsCLOs
 44.7% to 49.2%4.5% to 5.0%

›˙“˝•›˙
›December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsCDOsCLOsCarrying value of retained interests
$6$10
$(1)$Š(2)Š
In millions of dollarsCarrying value of retained interests
ˆˇ
—ˇ–‚–‚Asset-Based Financing
The Company provides loans and other forms of financing to VIEs that hold 
assets. Those loans are subject to the same credit approvals as all other loans 
originated or purchased by the Company. Financings in the form of debt 
securities or derivatives are, in most circumstances, reported in Trading account assets and accounted for at fair value through earnings. The 
Company generally does not have the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact these VIEs™ economic performance, and thus it does not 
consolidate them.Asset-Based FinancingŠCiticorpThe primary types of Citicorp™s asset-based financings, total assets of the 
unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement, and the Company™s 
maximum exposure to loss at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are shown below. 
For the Company to realize the maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would 
have to default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsTotal 
 unconsolidated  VIE assetsMaximum  exposure to 
 unconsolidated VIEsType

$25,978$9,426
460473
34,99015,573Total
$61,428$25,472
In millions of dollars
˙
˙˙˙
Type



Total
ˇ−˘†ˇ“242The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:In billions of dollars2014
$0.5
˙
$0.2The key assumption used to value retained interests and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20% is set forth in the tables 
below for the following periods presented:Dec. 31, 2014
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

N/A›
In millions of dollars˙Carrying value of retained interests 
(1)ˇ˘ˆˇ†Œ
—ˇˇ––—ˇ–˙˙ˆˇ˘
Asset-Based FinancingŠCiti Holdings
The primary types of Citi Holdings™ asset-based financing, total assets of 
the unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement and the Company™s 
maximum exposure to loss at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are shown below. 
For the Company to realize the maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would 
have to default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.December 31, 2014
In millions of dollarsTotal 
 unconsolidated  VIE assetsMaximum  exposure to 
 unconsolidated VIEsType

$168$50
ŠŠ
1,15376Total
$1,321$126
In millions of dollars
˙
˙˙˙
Type




Total
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012:In billions of dollars2014
˙
$0.1At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the effects of adverse changes of 10% and 20% in the discount rate used to determine the fair value of retained interests 
are set forth in the tables below:
In millions of dollars˙Carrying value of retained interests 
(1)Œ
‚‚—ˇ–˙˙ˆˇ˘
243Municipal Securities Tender Option Bond (TOB) TrustsTOB trusts hold fixed- and floating-rate, taxable and tax-exempt securities 
issued by state and local governments and municipalities. The trusts are 
typically single-issuer trusts whose assets are purchased from the Company 
or from other investors in the municipal securities market. The TOB trusts 
fund the purchase of their assets by issuing long-term, putable floating rate 
certificates (Floaters) and residual certificates (Residuals). The trusts are 
referred to as TOB trusts because the Floater holders have the ability to tender 
their interests periodically back to the issuing trust, as described further 
below. The Floaters and Residuals evidence beneficial ownership interests in, 
and are collateralized by, the underlying assets of the trust. The Floaters are 
held by third-party investors, typically tax-exempt money market funds. The 
Residuals are typically held by the original owner of the municipal securities 
being financed.The Floaters and the Residuals have a tenor that is equal to or shorter than the tenor of the underlying municipal bonds. The Residuals entitle their 
holders to the residual cash flows from the issuing trust, the interest income 
generated by the underlying municipal securities net of interest paid on the 
Floaters and trust expenses. The Residuals are rated based on the long-term 
rating of the underlying municipal bond. The Floaters bear variable interest 
rates that are reset periodically to a new market rate based on a spread to a 
high grade, short-term, tax-exempt index. The Floaters have a long-term 
rating based on the long-term rating of the underlying municipal bond and 
a short-term rating based on that of the liquidity provider to the trust.There are two kinds of TOB trusts: customer TOB trusts and non-customer TOB trusts. Customer TOB trusts are trusts through which customers 
finance their investments in municipal securities. The Residuals are held 
by customers and the Floaters by third-party investors, typically tax-exempt 
money market funds. Non-customer TOB trusts are trusts through which 
the Company finances its own investments in municipal securities. In such 
trusts, the Company holds the Residuals, and third-party investors, typically 
tax-exempt money market funds, hold the Floaters.The Company serves as remarketing agent to the trusts, placing the Floaters with third-party investors at inception, facilitating the periodic 
reset of the variable rate of interest on the Floaters, and remarketing any 
tendered Floaters. If Floaters are tendered and the Company (in its role 
as remarketing agent) is unable to find a new investor within a specified 
period of time, it can declare a failed remarketing, in which case the trust is 
unwound. The Company may, but is not obligated to, buy the Floaters into 

its own inventory. The level of the Company™s inventory of Floaters fluctuates 

over time. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company held $3 million 
and $176 million, respectively, of Floaters related to both customer and non-

customer TOB trusts.For certain non-customer trusts, the Company also provides credit enhancement. At December 31, 2014 and 2013 approximately $198 million 
and $230 million, respectively, of the municipal bonds owned by TOB trusts 

have a credit guarantee provided by the Company.
The Company provides liquidity to many of the outstanding trusts. If a trust is unwound early due to an event other than a credit event on the 
underlying municipal bond, the underlying municipal bonds are sold in the 
market. If there is a shortfall in the trust™s cash flows between the redemption 

price of the tendered Floaters and the proceeds from the sale of the 
underlying municipal bonds, the trust draws on a liquidity agreement in an 
amount equal to the shortfall. For customer TOBs where the Residual is less 
than 25% of the trust™s capital structure, the Company has a reimbursement 

agreement with the Residual holder under which the Residual holder 
reimburses the Company for any payment made under the liquidity 
arrangement. Through this reimbursement agreement, the Residual holder 
remains economically exposed to fluctuations in value of the underlying 
municipal bonds. These reimbursement agreements are generally subject 
to daily margining based on changes in value of the underlying municipal 
bond. In cases where a third party provides liquidity to a non-customer TOB 
trust, a similar reimbursement arrangement is made whereby the Company 
(or a consolidated subsidiary of the Company) as Residual holder absorbs 
any losses incurred by the liquidity provider.
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, liquidity agreements provided with respect to customer TOB trusts totaled $3.7 billion and $3.9 billion, 
respectively, of which $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, were offset 

by reimbursement agreements. For the remaining exposure related to TOB 
transactions, where the Residual owned by the customer was at least 25% 
of the bond value at the inception of the transaction, no reimbursement 
agreement was executed. The Company also provides other liquidity 
agreements or letters of credit to customer-sponsored municipal investment 

funds, which are not variable interest entities, and municipality-related 
issuers that totaled $7.4 billion and $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 
2013, respectively. These liquidity agreements and letters of credit are offset 

by reimbursement agreements with various term-out provisions.The Company considers the customer and non-customer TOB trusts to be VIEs. Customer TOB trusts are not consolidated by the Company. The 

Company has concluded that the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the economic performance of the customer TOB trusts 
is primarily held by the customer Residual holder, which may unilaterally 

cause the sale of the trust™s bonds.
Non-customer TOB trusts generally are consolidated. Similar to customer TOB trusts, the Company has concluded that the power over the non-
customer TOB trusts is primarily held by the Residual holder, which may 

unilaterally cause the sale of the trust™s bonds. Because the Company holds 

the Residual interest, and thus has the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the trust™s economic performance, it consolidates the 

non-customer TOB trusts.244Municipal InvestmentsMunicipal investment transactions include debt and equity interests in 
partnerships that finance the construction and rehabilitation of low-income 
housing, facilitate lending in new or underserved markets, or finance 
the construction or operation of renewable municipal energy facilities. 
The Company generally invests in these partnerships as a limited partner 
and earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits and grants 
earned from the investments made by the partnership. The Company may 
also provide construction loans or permanent loans for the development or 
operation of real estate properties held by partnerships. These entities are 
generally considered VIEs. The power to direct the activities of these entities 
is typically held by the general partner. Accordingly, these entities are not 
consolidated by the Company.Client IntermediationClient intermediation transactions represent a range of transactions 
designed to provide investors with specified returns based on the returns 
of an underlying security, referenced asset or index. These transactions 
include credit-linked notes and equity-linked notes. In these transactions, 
the VIE typically obtains exposure to the underlying security, referenced 
asset or index through a derivative instrument, such as a total-return swap 
or a credit-default swap. In turn the VIE issues notes to investors that pay a 
return based on the specified underlying security, referenced asset or index. 
The VIE invests the proceeds in a financial asset or a guaranteed insurance 
contract that serves as collateral for the derivative contract over the term of 
the transaction. The Company™s involvement in these transactions includes 
being the counterparty to the VIE™s derivative instruments and investing in a 
portion of the notes issued by the VIE. In certain transactions, the investor™s 
maximum risk of loss is limited, and the Company absorbs risk of loss above 
a specified level. The Company does not have the power to direct the activities 
of the VIEs that most significantly impact their economic performance, and 
thus it does not consolidate them.The Company™s maximum risk of loss in these transactions is defined 
as the amount invested in notes issued by the VIE and the notional amount 
of any risk of loss absorbed by the Company through a separate instrument 
issued by the VIE. The derivative instrument held by the Company may 
generate a receivable from the VIE (for example, where the Company 
purchases credit protection from the VIE in connection with the VIE™s 

issuance of a credit-linked note), which is collateralized by the assets owned 
by the VIE. These derivative instruments are not considered variable interests, 
and any associated receivables are not included in the calculation of 
maximum exposure to the VIE.The proceeds from new securitizations related to the Company™s client 
intermediation transactions for the year ended December 31, 2014 totaled 
approximately $2.0 billion.Investment Funds
The Company is the investment manager for certain investment funds 
and retirement funds that invest in various asset classes including private 
equity, hedge funds, real estate, fixed income and infrastructure. The 
Company earns a management fee, which is a percentage of capital under 
management, and may earn performance fees. In addition, for some of these 
funds the Company has an ownership interest in the investment funds. The 
Company has also established a number of investment funds as opportunities 
for qualified employees to invest in private equity investments. The Company 
acts as investment manager to these funds and may provide employees with 
financing on both recourse and non-recourse bases for a portion of the 
employees™ investment commitments.The Company has determined that a majority of the investment entities managed by Citigroup are provided a deferral from the requirements of 
ASC 810, because they meet the criteria in Accounting Standards Update 
No. 2010-10, Consolidation (Topic 810), Amendments for Certain 

Investment Funds (ASU 2010-10). These entities continue to be evaluated 
under the requirements of ASC 810-10, prior to the implementation of 
SFAS 167 (FIN 46(R), 
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
), which 
required that a VIE be consolidated by the party with a variable interest that 
will absorb a majority of the entity™s expected losses or residual returns, or 

both. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion 
of ASU 2015-02 which includes impending changes to targeted areas of 
consolidation guidance. When ASU 2015-02 becomes effective on January 1, 
2016, it will eliminate the above noted deferral for certain investment entities 
pursuant to ASU 2010-10.Trust Preferred SecuritiesThe Company has previously raised financing through the issuance of trust 
preferred securities. In these transactions, the Company forms a statutory 
business trust and owns all of the voting equity shares of the trust. The trust 
issues preferred equity securities to third-party investors and invests the gross 
proceeds in junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the 
Company. The trusts have no assets, operations, revenues or cash flows other 
than those related to the issuance, administration and repayment of the 
preferred equity securities held by third-party investors. Obligations of the 
trusts are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company.Because the sole asset of each of the trusts is a receivable from the Company and the proceeds to the Company from the receivable exceed 
the Company™s investment in the VIE™s equity shares, the Company is not 

permitted to consolidate the trusts, even though it owns all of the voting 
equity shares of the trust, has fully guaranteed the trusts™ obligations, and 
has the right to redeem the preferred securities in certain circumstances. 
The Company recognizes the subordinated debentures on its Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as long-term liabilities. (For additional information, see Note 
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)24523. DERIVATIVES ACTIVITIESIn the ordinary course of business, Citigroup enters into various types of derivative transactions. These derivative transactions include:Futures and forward contracts, which are commitments to buy or sell at a future date a financial instrument, commodity or currency at a 
contracted price and may be settled in cash or through delivery.Swap contracts, which are commitments to settle in cash at a future date 
or dates that may range from a few days to a number of years, based on 
differentials between specified indices or financial instruments, as applied 
to a notional principal amount.Option contracts, which give the purchaser, for a premium, the right, 
but not the obligation, to buy or sell within a specified time a financial 
instrument, commodity or currency at a contracted price that may also be 
settled in cash, based on differentials between specified indices or prices.Swaps and forwards and some option contracts are over-the-counter 
(OTC) derivatives that are bilaterally negotiated with counterparties and settled with those counterparties, except for swap contracts that are novated 
and ﬁclearedﬂ through central counterparties (CCPs). Futures contracts 
and other option contracts are standardized contracts that are traded on 
an exchange with a CCP as the counterparty from the inception of the 
transaction. Citigroup enters into these derivative contracts relating to 
interest rate, foreign currency, commodity and other market/credit risks for 

the following reasons:Trading Purposes: Citigroup trades derivatives as an active market maker. Citigroup offers its customers derivatives in connection with their 
risk management actions to transfer, modify or reduce their interest rate, 
foreign exchange and other market/credit risks or for their own trading 
purposes. Citigroup also manages its derivative risk positions through 
offsetting trade activities, controls focused on price verification, and daily 
reporting of positions to senior managers.Hedging: Citigroup uses derivatives in connection with its risk-
management activities to hedge certain risks or reposition the risk profile 
of the Company. For example, Citigroup issues fixed-rate long-term 
debt and then enters into a receive-fixed, pay-variable-rate interest rate 
swap with the same tenor and notional amount to convert the interest 
payments to a net variable-rate basis. This strategy is the most common 
form of an interest rate hedge, as it minimizes interest cost in certain yield 
curve environments. Derivatives are also used to manage risks inherent 
in specific groups of on-balance-sheet assets and liabilities, including 
AFS securities and borrowings, as well as other interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. In addition, foreign-exchange contracts are used to hedge non-U.S.-dollar-denominated debt, foreign-currency-denominated AFS 
securities and net investment exposures.Derivatives may expose Citigroup to market, credit or liquidity risks in excess of the amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Market 
risk on a derivative product is the exposure created by potential fluctuations 
in interest rates, foreign-exchange rates and other factors and is a function 
of the type of product, the volume of transactions, the tenor and terms of 
the agreement and the underlying volatility. Credit risk is the exposure to 

loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the transaction 
where the value of any collateral held is not adequate to cover such losses. 
The recognition in earnings of unrealized gains on these transactions is 
subject to management™s assessment of the probability of counterparty 

default. Liquidity risk is the potential exposure that arises when the size of a 
derivative position may not be able to be monetized in a reasonable period of 
time and at a reasonable cost in periods of high volatility and financial stress.Derivative transactions are customarily documented under industry standard master agreements that provide that, following an uncured 
payment default or other event of default, the non-defaulting party may 
promptly terminate all transactions between the parties and determine the 
net amount due to be paid to, or by, the defaulting party. Events of default 

include: (i) failure to make a payment on a derivatives transaction that 
remains uncured following applicable notice and grace periods, (ii) breach 
of agreement that remains uncured after applicable notice and grace periods, 
(iii) breach of a representation, (iv) cross default, either to third-party debt 
or to other derivative transactions entered into between the parties, or, in 

some cases, their affiliates, (v) the occurrence of a merger or consolidation 
which results in a party™s becoming a materially weaker credit, and (vi) the 

cessation or repudiation of any applicable guarantee or other credit support 
document. Obligations under master netting agreements are often secured 
by collateral posted under an industry standard credit support annex to the 
master netting agreement. An event of default may also occur under a credit 
support annex if a party fails to make a collateral delivery that remains 
uncured following applicable notice and grace periods.The netting and collateral rights incorporated in the master netting agreements are considered to be legally enforceable if a supportive legal 
opinion has been obtained from counsel of recognized standing that provides 
the requisite level of certainty regarding enforceability and that the exercise 
of rights by the non-defaulting party to terminate and close-out transactions 
on a net basis under these agreements will not be stayed or avoided under 
applicable law upon an event of default including bankruptcy, insolvency or 

similar proceeding.A legal opinion may not be sought for certain jurisdictions where local law is silent or unclear as to the enforceability of such rights or where adverse 
case law or conflicting regulation may cast doubt on the enforceability 
of such rights. In some jurisdictions and for some counterparty types, the 
insolvency law may not provide the requisite level of certainty. For example, 

this may be the case for certain sovereigns, municipalities, central banks and 
U.S. pension plans.246Exposure to credit risk on derivatives is affected by market volatility, 
which may impair the ability of counterparties to satisfy their obligations to the Company. Credit limits are established and closely monitored for 

customers engaged in derivatives transactions. Citi considers the level of 
legal certainty regarding enforceability of its offsetting rights under master 
netting agreements and credit support annexes to be an important factor in 
its risk management process. Specifically, Citi generally transacts much lower 

volumes of derivatives under master netting agreements where Citi does not 
have the requisite level of legal certainty regarding enforceability, because 

such derivatives consume greater amounts of single counterparty credit 
limits than those executed under enforceable master netting agreements.Cash collateral and security collateral in the form of G10 government debt securities is often posted by a party to a master netting agreement to 
secure the net open exposure of the other party; the receiving party is free 
to commingle/rehypothecate such collateral in the ordinary course of its 
business. Nonstandard collateral such as corporate bonds, municipal bonds, 
U.S. agency securities and/or MBS may also be pledged as collateral for 
derivative transactions. Security collateral posted to open and maintain a 
master netting agreement with a counterparty, in the form of cash and/or 

securities, may from time to time be segregated in an account at a third-party 
custodian pursuant to a tri-party account control agreement.Information pertaining to Citigroup™s derivative activity, based on notional 
amounts, as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, is presented in 
the table below. Derivative notional amounts are reference amounts from 

which contractual payments are derived and, in Citigroup™s view, do not 

accurately represent a measure of Citi™s exposure to derivative transactions. 

Rather, as discussed above, Citi™s derivative exposure arises primarily from 

market fluctuations (i.e., market risk), counterparty failure (i.e., credit 
risk) and/or periods of high volatility or financial stress (i.e., liquidity 
risk), as well as any market valuation adjustments that may be required on 
the transactions. Moreover, notional amounts do not reflect the netting of 

offsetting trades (also as discussed above). For example, if Citi enters into an 
interest rate swap with $100 million notional, and offsets this risk with an 
identical but opposite position with a different counterparty, $200 million in 

derivative notionals is reported, although these offsetting positions may result 
in de minimus overall market risk. Aggregate derivative notional amounts 
can fluctuate from period-to-period in the normal course of business based 
on Citi™s market share as well as levels of client activity.
247Derivative NotionalsHedging instruments under ASC 815 (1)(2)Other derivative instruments
Trading derivatives
Management hedges (3)In millions of dollarsDecember 31,  2014ˇDecember 31,  2014ˇDecember 31,  2014ˇInterest rate contracts
$163,348$31,906,549$31,945
Š7,044,99042,305Š†3,311,7513,913Š†3,171,0564,910Total interest rate contract notionals
$163,348$45,434,346$83,073Foreign exchange contracts

$25,157$4,567,977$23,990
73,2192,154,7737,069Š1,343,520432†Š1,363,382432Total foreign exchange contract notionals
$98,376$9,429,652$31,923Equity contracts
$Š†$131,344$Š†
Š†30,510Š†Š†305,627Š†Š†275,216Š†Total equity contract notionals
$Š†$742,697$Š†Commodity and other contracts
$Š†$90,817$Š†
1,089†106,021Š†Š†104,581Š†Š†95,567Š†Total commodity and other contract notionals
$1,089†$396,986$Š†Credit derivatives
 (4)$Š†$1,063,858$Š†Š1,100,36916,018Total credit derivatives
$Š$2,164,227$16,018Total derivative notionals
$262,813$58,167,908$131,014ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ–›
ˇ
ˇOther assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

ˇˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities

Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

ˇˇ

ˇˇ


The following tables present the gross and net fair values of the Company™s derivative transactions, and the related offsetting amounts 

permitted under ASC 210-20-45 and ASC 815-10-45, as of December 31, 
2014 and December 31, 2013. Under ASC 210-20-45, gross positive fair 
values are offset against gross negative fair values by counterparty pursuant 
to enforceable master netting agreements. Under ASC 815-10-45, payables 
and receivables in respect of cash collateral received from or paid to a given 
counterparty pursuant to a credit support annex are included in the offsetting amount if a legal opinion supporting enforceability of netting and collateral 
rights has been obtained. GAAP does not permit similar offsetting for security 
collateral. The table also includes amounts that are not permitted to be 
offset under ASC 210-20-45 and ASC 815-10-45, such as security collateral 
posted or cash collateral posted at third-party custodians, but would be 
eligible for offsetting to the extent an event of default occurred and a legal 
opinion supporting enforceability of the netting and collateral rights has 
been obtained. 248Derivative Mark-to-Market (MTM) Receivables/PayablesIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Derivatives classified in Trading 
account assets / liabilities (1)(2)(3)Derivatives classified in Other
 assets / liabilities (2)(3)Derivatives instruments designated as ASC
 815 hedgesAssetsLiabilitiesAssetsLiabilities‚⁄˚ˆ
$1,508$204$3,117$4144,300868Š25Interest rate contracts$5,808$1,072$3,117$439‚⁄˚ˆ
$3,885$743$678$588Foreign exchange contracts
$3,885$743$678$588Total derivative instruments designated as ASC
 815 hedges$9,693$1,815$3,795$1,027Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC
 815 hedges‚⁄˚ˆ
$376,778$359,689$106$Š255,847261,4996212022141164Interest rate contracts$632,645$621,210$253$185‚⁄˚ˆ
$151,736$157,650$Š$17366387ŠŠ746ŠŠForeign exchange contracts
$152,109$158,083$Š$17‚⁄˚ˆ
$20,425$28,333$Š$Š1635ŠŠ4,3114,101ŠŠEquity contracts$24,752$32,469$Š$Š‚⁄˚ˆ
$19,943$23,103$Š$Š3,5773,083ŠŠCommodity and other contracts$23,520$26,186$Š$Š‚⁄˚ˆ
$39,412$39,439$265$3844,1063,99113171Credit derivatives
 (4)$43,518$43,430$278$555Total derivatives instruments not designated as ASC
 815 hedges$876,544$881,378$531$757Total derivatives
$886,237$883,193$4,326$1,784
$6,523$9,846$123$7‡
(777,178)(777,178)ŠŠ
(47,625)(47,769)(1,791)(15)Net receivables/payables included on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet$67,957$68,092$2,658$1,776Additional amounts subject to an enforceable master netting agreement but not offset on the Consolidated Balance SheetLess: Cash collateral received/paid$(867)$(11)$Š$ŠLess: Non-cash collateral received/paid(10,043)(6,264)(1,293)ŠTotal net receivables/payables
 (9)$57,047$61,817$1,365$1,776ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities 
 Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities.
ˇ‚⁄˚ˆ


›
ˇ
ˇˇ


ˇ
ˇ–›

ˇ
Other liabilities
›


Other assets›ˇ‡ˇ
–›
ˇ‡
–›
ˇ‡
249In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Derivatives classified in Trading
 account assets / liabilitiesˇ(1)(2)(3)Derivatives classified in Other 
assets / liabilitiesˇ(2)(3)Derivatives instruments designated as ASC 815 hedges
AssetsLiabilitiesAssetsLiabilities‚⁄˚ˆ
’†Interest rate contracts‚⁄˚ˆ
Foreign exchange contracts
‚⁄˚ˆ
†††Credit derivatives
†††Total derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 hedges
Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC 815 hedges
‚⁄˚ˆ
’˘˘††Interest rate contracts‚⁄˚ˆ
˘††’’††Foreign exchange contracts
˘‚⁄˚ˆ
††††Equity contracts††‚⁄˚ˆ
††††Commodity and other contracts††‚⁄˚ˆ
††Credit derivatives
 (4)Total Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC 815 hedges
Total derivatives

‡
††
†Net receivables/payables included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
 (9)Additional amounts subject to an enforceable master netting agreement but not offset on the Consolidated Balance SheetLess: Cash collateral received/paid€’††Less: Non-cash collateral received/paid†Total net receivables/payables
 (9)ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities
›ˇ‚⁄˚ˆ


›
ˇ
ˇˇ


ˇ
ˇ–›


ˇ

ˇ‡ˇ

–›
ˇ‡

–›
ˇ‡
250For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the amounts recognized in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging 
relationship, as well as the underlying non-derivative instruments, are 
presented in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citigroup 
presents this disclosure by business classification, showing derivative gains 
and losses related to its trading activities together with gains and losses 
related to non-derivative instruments within the same trading portfolios, as 
this represents the way these portfolios are risk managed.The amounts recognized in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 related to 
derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship are shown 
below. The table below does not include any offsetting gains/losses on the 

economically hedged items to the extent such amounts are also recorded in 
Other revenue.Gains (losses) included in Other revenue
 Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2014
$291(2,894)
(135)Total Citigroup
$(2,738)Accounting for Derivative HedgingCitigroup accounts for its hedging activities in accordance with ASC 815, 
Derivatives and Hedging. As a general rule, hedge accounting is permitted 
where the Company is exposed to a particular risk, such as interest-rate or 
foreign-exchange risk, that causes changes in the fair value of an asset or 
liability or variability in the expected future cash flows of an existing asset, 
liability or a forecasted transaction that may affect earnings.Derivative contracts hedging the risks associated with changes in fair value are referred to as fair value hedges, while contracts hedging the 
variability of expected future cash flows are cash flow hedges. Hedges that 
utilize derivatives or debt instruments to manage the foreign exchange 
risk associated with equity investments in non-U.S.-dollar-functional-

currency foreign subsidiaries (net investment in a foreign operation) are net 
investment hedges.If certain hedging criteria specified in ASC 815 are met, including testing for hedge effectiveness, hedge accounting may be applied. The hedge 
effectiveness assessment methodologies for similar hedges are performed 
in a similar manner and are used consistently throughout the hedging 
relationships. For fair value hedges, changes in the value of the hedging 
derivative, as well as changes in the value of the related hedged item due to 
the risk being hedged are reflected in current earnings. For cash flow hedges 
and net investment hedges, changes in the value of the hedging derivative 
are reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in 
Citigroup™s stockholders™ equity to the extent the hedge is highly effective. 

Hedge ineffectiveness, in either case, is reflected in current earnings.For asset/liability management hedging, fixed-rate long-term debt is recorded at amortized cost under GAAP. However, by designating an interest 

rate swap contract as a hedging instrument and electing to apply ASC 815 
fair value hedge accounting, the carrying value of the debt is adjusted for 
changes in the benchmark interest rate, with such changes in value recorded 
in current earnings. The related interest-rate swap also is recorded on the 
balance sheet at fair value, with any changes in fair value also reflected in 
earnings. Thus, any ineffectiveness resulting from the hedging relationship is 
captured in current earnings.Alternatively, for management hedges, that do not meet the ASC 815 
hedging criteria, only the derivative is recorded at fair value on the balance 
sheet, with the associated changes in fair value recorded in earnings, 
while the debt continues to be carried at amortized cost. Therefore, current 
earnings are affected only by the interest rate shifts and other factors that 
cause a change in the swap™s value. This type of hedge is undertaken when 

hedging requirements cannot be achieved or management decides not to 
apply ASC 815 hedge accounting.Another alternative is to elect to carry the debt at fair value under the fair value option. Once the irrevocable election is made upon issuance of 
the debt, the full changes in fair value of the debt are reported in earnings. 
The related interest rate swap, with changes in fair value, is also reflected in 
earnings, which provides a natural offset to the debt™s fair value change. To 

the extent the two offsets are not exactly equal because the full change in the 
fair value of the debt includes risks not offset by the interest rate swap, the 
difference is captured in current earnings.251The key requirements to achieve ASC 815 hedge accounting are documentation of a hedging strategy and specific hedge relationships at hedge inception and substantiating hedge effectiveness on an ongoing basis. 
A derivative must be highly effective in accomplishing the hedge objective of 
offsetting either changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item 
for the risk being hedged. Any ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship is 
recognized in current earnings. The assessment of effectiveness may exclude 
changes in the value of the hedged item that are unrelated to the risks being 
hedged. Similarly, the assessment of effectiveness may exclude changes 

in the fair value of a derivative related to time value that, if excluded, are 
recognized in current earnings.Fair Value HedgesHedging of benchmark interest rate risk
Citigroup hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of outstanding fixed-
rate issued debt and certificates of deposit. These hedges are designated as fair 
value hedges of the benchmark interest rate risk associated with the currency 
of the hedged liability. The fixed cash flows of the hedged items are converted 
to benchmark variable-rate cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, 
pay-variable interest rate swaps. These fair value hedge relationships use 
either regression or dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether the hedging 
relationships are highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis.Citigroup also hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate assets, including available-for-sale debt securities and loans. The hedging 

instruments used are receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps. These 
fair value hedging relationships use either regression or dollar-offset ratio 

analysis to assess whether the hedging relationships are highly effective at 
inception and on an ongoing basis.Hedging of foreign exchange riskCitigroup hedges the change in fair value attributable to foreign-exchange 
rate movements in available-for-sale securities that are denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the 
securities, which may be within or outside the U.S. The hedging instrument 
employed is generally a forward foreign-exchange contract. In this hedge, 
the change in fair value of the hedged available-for-sale security attributable 
to the portion of foreign exchange risk hedged is reported in earnings, and 
not Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)Šwhich serves to 
offset the change in fair value of the forward contract that is also reflected in 
earnings. Citigroup considers the premium associated with forward contracts 
(i.e., the differential between spot and contractual forward rates) as the 
cost of hedging; this is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness 
and reflected directly in earnings. The dollar-offset method is used to assess 
hedge effectiveness. Since that assessment is based on changes in fair value 
attributable to changes in spot rates on both the available-for-sale securities 
and the forward contracts for the portion of the relationship hedged, the 
amount of hedge ineffectiveness is not significant.252The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Company™s fair value hedges for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and 2012:Gains (losses) on fair value hedges
 Year ended December 31,
 (1)In millions of dollars2014Gain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$1,5461,367(221)††Total gain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$2,692Gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges


$(1,496)(1,422)250††Total gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(2,668)Hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges


$53(16)Total hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$37Net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges


$(3)††(39)29††Total net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges
$(13)ˇOther revenueˇ
Net interest revenue˙š˚›
ˇˇ

Cash Flow HedgesHedging of benchmark interest rate risk
Citigroup hedges variable cash flows associated with floating-rate liabilities 
and the rollover (re-issuance) of liabilities. Variable cash flows from those 
liabilities are converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-
variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps and receive-variable, pay-fixed 
forward-starting interest rate swaps. Citi also hedges variable cash flows from 
recognized and forecasted floating-rate assets. Variable cash flows from those 
assets are converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, 
pay-variable interest rate swaps. These cash-flow hedging relationships use 
either regression analysis or dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether 
the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an 
ongoing basis. When certain variable interest rates, associated with hedged 
items, do not qualify as benchmark interest rates, Citigroup designates the 
risk being hedged as the risk of overall changes in the hedged cash flows. 
Since efforts are made to match the terms of the derivatives to those of the 
hedged forecasted cash flows as closely as possible, the amount of hedge 
ineffectiveness is not significant.Hedging of foreign exchange risk
Citigroup locks in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of long-
term debt and short-term borrowings that are denominated in currencies 
other than the functional currency of the issuing entity. Depending on the 
risk management objectives, these types of hedges are designated as either 
cash flow hedges of only foreign exchange risk or cash flow hedges of both 
foreign exchange and interest rate risk, and the hedging instruments used 
are foreign exchange cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. These 
cash flow hedge relationships use dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine 
whether the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an 
ongoing basis.Hedging of overall changes in cash flowsCitigroup makes purchases of certain ﬁto-be-announcedﬂ (TBA) mortgage-
backed securities that meet the definition of a derivative (i.e. a forward 
securities purchase). Citigroup commonly designates these derivatives as 
hedges of the overall cash flow variability related to the forecasted acquisition 
of the TBA mortgage-backed securities. Since the hedged transaction is the 
gross settlement of the forward contract, hedge effectiveness is assessed by 
assuring that the terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged forecasted 
transaction are the same and that delivery of the securities remains probable.253Hedging total returnCitigroup generally manages the risk associated with leveraged loans it 
has originated or in which it participates by transferring a majority of its 
exposure to the market through SPEs prior to or shortly after funding. 
Retained exposures to leveraged loans receivable are generally hedged using 
total return swaps.The amount of hedge ineffectiveness on the cash flow hedges recognized in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 is not 
significant. The pretax change in Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) from cash flow hedges is presented below:Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2014Effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI

$299(167)
2†Total effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI
$134Effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings


$(260)(149)Total effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings
 (1)$(409)ˇ
Other revenue  Net interest revenue 
For cash flow hedges, the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative remaining in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet will be included in the earnings of future 
periods to offset the variability of the hedged cash flows when such cash 
flows affect earnings. The net loss associated with cash flow hedges expected 
to be reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
within 12 months of December 31, 2014 is approximately $0.4 billion. 
The maximum length of time over which forecasted cash flows are hedged 
is 10 years.The after-tax impact of cash flow hedges on AOCI is shown in Note
 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Net Investment HedgesConsistent with ASC 830-20, Foreign Currency MattersŠForeign 
Currency Transactions, ASC 815 allows hedging of the foreign currency 
risk of a net investment in a foreign operation. Citigroup uses foreign 
currency forwards, options and foreign-currency-denominated debt 
instruments to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with Citigroup™s 
equity investments in several non-U.S.-dollar-functional-currency foreign 
subsidiaries. Citigroup records the change in the carrying amount of these 
investments in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account 
within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Simultaneously, 
the effective portion of the hedge of this exposure is also recorded in the 
Foreign currency translation adjustment account and the ineffective 
portion, if any, is immediately recorded in earnings.For derivatives designated as net investment hedges, Citigroup follows the forward-rate method outlined in ASC 815-35-35-16 through 35-26. According 
to that method, all changes in fair value, including changes related to the 
forward-rate component of the foreign currency forward contracts and the 
time value of foreign currency options, are recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss).For foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments that are designated as hedges of net investments, the translation gain or loss that is recorded in 
the Foreign currency translation adjustment account is based on the spot 
exchange rate between the functional currency of the respective subsidiary 
and the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of Citigroup. To the 

extent the notional amount of the hedging instrument exactly matches the 
hedged net investment and the underlying exchange rate of the derivative 
hedging instrument relates to the exchange rate between the functional 
currency of the net investment and Citigroup™s functional currency (or, in the 

case of a non-derivative debt instrument, such instrument is denominated in 
the functional currency of the net investment), no ineffectiveness is recorded 
in earnings.The pretax gain (loss) recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(loss), related to the effective portion of the net investment hedges, is 
$2,890 million, $2,370 million and $(3,829) million for the years ended 
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
254Credit DerivativesCiti is a market maker and trades a range of credit derivatives. Through these contracts, Citi either purchases or writes protection on either a single name 
or a portfolio of reference credits. Citi also uses credit derivatives to help 
mitigate credit risk in its corporate and consumer loan portfolios and other 
cash positions, and to facilitate client transactions.Citi monitors its counterparty credit risk in credit derivative contracts. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 98% of the gross receivables 
are from counterparties with which Citi maintains collateral agreements. 
A majority of Citi™s top 15 counterparties (by receivable balance owed to 

Citi) are banks, financial institutions or other dealers. Contracts with these 
counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events. However, 

counterparty ratings downgrades may have an incremental effect by lowering 
the threshold at which Citi may call for additional collateral.The range of credit derivatives entered into includes credit default swaps, total return swaps, credit options and credit-linked notes.A credit default swap is a contract in which, for a fee, a protection seller agrees to reimburse a protection buyer for any losses that occur due to a 
predefined credit event on a reference entity. These credit events are defined 

by the terms of the derivative contract and the reference credit and are 
generally limited to the market standard of failure to pay on indebtedness 
and bankruptcy of the reference credit and, in a more limited range of 
transactions, debt restructuring. Credit derivative transactions that reference 
emerging market entities will also typically include additional credit events 
to cover the acceleration of indebtedness and the risk of repudiation or a 
payment moratorium. In certain transactions, protection may be provided 
on a portfolio of reference entities or asset-backed securities. If there is no 
credit event, as defined by the specific derivative contract, then the protection 
seller makes no payments to the protection buyer and receives only the 
contractually specified fee. However, if a credit event occurs as defined in 

the specific derivative contract sold, the protection seller will be required to 
make a payment to the protection buyer. Under certain contracts, the seller of 

protection may not be required to make payment until a specified amount of 
losses has occurred with respect to the portfolio and/or may only be required 
to pay for losses up to a specified amount.A total return swap typically transfers the total economic performance of a reference asset, which includes all associated cash flows, as well as capital 
appreciation or depreciation. The protection buyer receives a floating rate of 
interest and any depreciation on the reference asset from the protection seller 
and, in return, the protection seller receives the cash flows associated with 
the reference asset plus any appreciation. Thus, according to the total return 
swap agreement, the protection seller will be obligated to make a payment 
any time the floating interest rate payment plus any depreciation of the 
reference asset exceeds the cash flows associated with the underlying asset. 
A total return swap may terminate upon a default of the reference asset or 
a credit event with respect to the reference entity subject to the provisions of 
the related total return swap agreement between the protection seller and the 
protection buyer.
A credit option is a credit derivative that allows investors to trade or hedge changes in the credit quality of a reference entity. For example, in a credit 

spread option, the option writer assumes the obligation to purchase or sell 
credit protection on the reference entity at a specified ﬁstrikeﬂ spread level. 
The option purchaser buys the right to sell credit default protection on the 
reference entity to, or purchase it from, the option writer at the strike spread 
level. The payments on credit spread options depend either on a particular 
credit spread or the price of the underlying credit-sensitive asset or other 
reference. The options usually terminate if a credit event occurs with respect 
to the underlying reference entity.
A credit-linked note is a form of credit derivative structured as a debt security with an embedded credit default swap. The purchaser of the note 
effectively provides credit protection to the issuer by agreeing to receive a 
return that could be negatively affected by credit events on the underlying 
reference credit. If the reference entity defaults, the note may be cash settled 
or physically settled by delivery of a debt security of the reference entity. Thus, 

the maximum amount of the note purchaser™s exposure is the amount paid 

for the credit-linked note.255The following tables summarize the key characteristics of Citi™s credit derivatives portfolio by counterparty and derivative form as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:Fair values
NotionalsIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Receivable
 (1)Payable
 (2)Protection purchasedProtection soldBy industry/counterparty
$24,828$23,189$574,764$604,700
8,0939,309204,542199,693911133,6971,59510,78411,374333,384257,870Total by industry/counterparty
$43,796$43,985$1,116,387$1,063,858By instrument

$42,930$42,201$1,094,199$1,054,671•
8661,78422,1889,187Total by instrument
$43,796$43,985$1,116,387$1,063,858By rating

$17,432$17,182$824,831$786,848
26,36426,803291,556277,010Total by rating
$43,796$43,985$1,116,387$1,063,858By maturityˇ$4,356$4,278$250,489$229,502ˇ34,69235,160790,251772,001ˇ4,7484,54775,64762,355Total by maturity
$43,796$43,985$1,116,387$1,063,858ˇ
ˇ
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
˙š˚
ˇ˙š˚
ˇˇˇBy industry/counterparty

Total by industry/counterparty
By instrument
•
Total by instrument
By rating

Total by rating
By maturityˇˇˇTotal by maturity
ˇˇ
ˇ
256Fair values included in the above tables are prior to application of any netting agreements and cash collateral. For notional amounts, Citi generally has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protection purchased 
and sold, and it may hold the reference assets directly, rather than entering 

into offsetting credit derivative contracts as and when desired. The open risk 
exposures from credit derivative contracts are largely matched after certain 
cash positions in reference assets are considered and after notional amounts 
are adjusted, either to a duration-based equivalent basis or to reflect the level 
of subordination in tranched structures. The ratings of the credit derivatives 
portfolio presented in the tables and used to evaluate payment/performance 
risk are based on the assigned internal or external ratings of the referenced 
asset or entity. Where external ratings are used, investment-grade ratings are 

considered to be ‚Baa/BBB™ and above, while anything below is considered 
non-investment grade. Citi™s internal ratings are in line with the related 

external rating system.Citigroup evaluates the payment/performance risk of the credit derivatives for which it stands as a protection seller based on the credit rating assigned to 
the underlying referenced credit. Credit derivatives written on an underlying 
non-investment grade reference credit represent greater payment risk to 
the Company. The non-investment grade category in the table above also 

includes credit derivatives where the underlying referenced entity has been 
downgraded subsequent to the inception of the derivative.The maximum potential amount of future payments under credit derivative contracts presented in the table above is based on the notional 
value of the derivatives. The Company believes that the notional amount for 
credit protection sold is not representative of the actual loss exposure based 
on historical experience. This amount has not been reduced by the value 
of the reference assets and the related cash flows. In accordance with most 
credit derivative contracts, should a credit event occur, the Company usually 

is liable for the difference between the protection sold and the value of the 
reference assets. Furthermore, the notional amount for credit protection sold 
has not been reduced for any cash collateral paid to a given counterparty, 
as such payments would be calculated after netting all derivative exposures, 
including any credit derivatives with that counterparty in accordance 
with a related master netting agreement. Due to such netting processes, 
determining the amount of collateral that corresponds to credit derivative 
exposures alone is not possible. The Company actively monitors open credit-
risk exposures and manages this exposure by using a variety of strategies, 
including purchased credit derivatives, cash collateral or direct holdings 
of the referenced assets. This risk mitigation activity is not captured in the 
table above.Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features in DerivativesCertain derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company 
to either post additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding 
liability balances upon the occurrence of a specified event related to the 
credit risk of the Company. These events, which are defined by the existing 
derivative contracts, are primarily downgrades in the credit ratings of the 
Company and its affiliates. The fair value (excluding CVA) of all derivative 
instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a 
net liability position at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 was 
$30 billion and $26 billion, respectively. The Company had posted $27 billion 
and $24 billion as collateral for this exposure in the normal course of 
business as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively.Each downgrade would trigger additional collateral or cash settlement requirements for the Company and its affiliates. In the event that each 
legal entity was downgraded a single notch by the three rating agencies 
as of December 31, 2014, the Company would be required to post an 
additional $2.0 billion as either collateral or settlement of the derivative 
transactions. Additionally, the Company would be required to segregate 

with third-party custodians collateral previously received from existing 
derivative counterparties in the amount of $0.1 billion upon the single 
notch downgrade, resulting in aggregate cash obligations and collateral 
requirements of approximately $2.1 billion.25724. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISKConcentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate 
credit exposure is material in relation to Citigroup™s total credit exposure. 
Although Citigroup™s portfolio of financial instruments is broadly diversified 
along industry, product, and geographic lines, material transactions are 
completed with other financial institutions, particularly in the securities 
trading, derivatives and foreign exchange businesses.In connection with the Company™s efforts to maintain a diversified 
portfolio, the Company limits its exposure to any one geographic region, 
country or individual creditor and monitors this exposure on a continuous 
basis. At December 31, 2014, Citigroup™s most significant concentration of 

credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies. The Company™s 

exposure, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued 
by the U.S. government and its agencies, amounted to $216.3 billion and 
$168.4 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Japanese 

and Mexican governments and their agencies, which are rated investment 
grade by both Moody™s and S&P, were the next largest exposures. The 

Company™s exposure to Japan amounted to $32.0 billion and $29.0 billion at 

December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and was composed of investment 

securities, loans and trading assets. The Company™s exposure to Mexico 

amounted to $29.7 billion and $37.0 billion at December 31, 2014 and 
2013, respectively, and was composed of investment securities, loans and 

trading assets.The Company™s exposure to states and municipalities amounted to 
$31.0 billion and $33.1 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, 

and was composed of trading assets, investment securities, derivatives and 
lending activities.25825. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTASC 820-10 Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about 
fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be 
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. Among other things, 
the standard requires the Company to maximize the use of observable inputs 
and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.Under ASC 820-10, the probability of default of a counterparty is factored into the valuation of derivative positions and includes the impact of 
Citigroup™s own credit risk on derivatives and other liabilities measured at 

fair value.Fair Value HierarchyASC 820-10 specifies a hierarchy of inputs based on whether the inputs are 
observable or unobservable. Observable inputs are developed using market 
data and reflect market participant assumptions, while unobservable inputs 
reflect the Company™s market assumptions. These two types of inputs have 
created the following fair value hierarchy:
identical instruments in active markets.
similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and 
significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.As required under the fair value hierarchy, the Company considers 
relevant and observable market inputs in its valuations where possible. The 
frequency of transactions, the size of the bid-ask spread and the amount of 
adjustment necessary when comparing similar transactions are all factors in 
determining the liquidity of markets and the relevance of observed prices in 
those markets.The Company™s policy with respect to transfers between levels of the fair 
value hierarchy is to recognize transfers into and out of each level as of the 
end of the reporting period.Determination of Fair ValueFor assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Company measures such 
value using the procedures set out below, irrespective of whether these assets 
and liabilities are measured at fair value as a result of an election or whether 
they are required to be measured at fair value.When available, the Company generally uses quoted market prices to 
where a market price is available, the Company will make use of acceptable 
practical expedients (such as matrix pricing) to calculate fair value, in which 
The Company may also apply a price-based methodology, which utilizes, 
where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from 
recent trading activity in positions with the same or similar characteristics to the position being valued. The market activity and the amount of the bid-ask 
spread are among the factors considered in determining the liquidity of 
markets and the relevance of observed prices from those markets. If relevant 
and observable prices are available, those valuations may be classified as 

stale, a significant adjustment to the price of a similar security is necessary 
to reflect differences in the terms of the actual security or loan being valued, 
or prices from independent sources are insufficient to corroborate the 
valuation, the ﬁpriceﬂ inputs are considered unobservable and the fair value 
If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed valuation techniques that use, where possible, current 
market-based parameters, such as interest rates, currency rates and 
option volatilities. Items valued using such internally generated valuation 
techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver 

even though there may be some significant inputs that are readily observable.Fair value estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices obtained from independent vendors or brokers. 


from observed prices to proprietary valuation models.The following section describes the valuation methodologies used by the Company to measure various financial instruments at fair value, 
including an indication of the level in the fair value hierarchy in which each 
instrument is generally classified. Where appropriate, the description includes 
details of the valuation models, the key inputs to those models and any 
significant assumptions.Market valuation adjustmentsGenerally, the unit of account for a financial instrument is the individual 
financial instrument. The Company applies market valuation adjustments 
that are consistent with the unit of account, which does not include 
adjustment due to the size of the Company™s position, except as follows. 
ASC 820-10 permits an exception, through an accounting policy election, 
to measure the fair value of a portfolio of financial assets and financial 
liabilities on the basis of the net open risk position when certain criteria are 
met. Citi has elected to measure certain portfolios of financial instruments, 
such as derivatives, that meet those criteria on the basis of the net open risk 
position. The Company applies market valuation adjustments, including 
adjustments to account for the size of the net open risk position, consistent 
with market participant assumptions and in accordance with the unit 
of account.fair-value hierarchy in an effort to ensure that the fair value reflects the 

price at which the net open risk position could be liquidated. The liquidity 
adjustment is based on the bid/offer spread for an instrument. When Citi 
has elected to measure certain portfolios of financial investments, such as 
derivatives, on the basis of the net open risk position, the liquidity adjustment 
is adjusted to take into account the size of the position.259


counter (OTC) derivative instruments in which the base valuation generally 
discounts expected cash flows using the relevant base interest rate curve 

dollar derivatives). As not all counterparties have the same credit risk as 


the market view of both counterparty credit risk and Citi™s own credit risk 



the uncollateralized portion of derivative portfolios, and in collateralized 
derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit the reuse of the 
collateral received.

profile for each counterparty is determined using the terms of all individual 
derivative positions and a Monte Carlo simulation or other quantitative 
analysis to generate a series of expected cash flows at future points in time. 
The calculation of this exposure profile considers the effect of credit risk 
mitigants, including pledged cash or other collateral and any legal right 
of offset that exists with a counterparty through arrangements such as 
netting agreements. Individual derivative contracts that are subject to an 
enforceable master netting agreement with a counterparty are aggregated 
for this purpose, since it is those aggregate net cash flows that are subject to 
nonperformance risk. This process identifies specific, point-in-time future 
cash flows that are subject to nonperformance risk, rather than using the 

market-based views of default probabilities derived from observed credit 
spreads in the credit default swap (CDS) market are applied to the expected 



using Citi-specific CDS spreads for the relevant tenor. Generally, counterparty 




For certain identified netting sets where individual analysis is practicable 
(e.g., exposures to counterparties with liquid CDSs), counterparty-specific 
CDS spreads are used.

and funding risk, respectively, inherent in the derivative portfolio. However, 

most unsecured derivative instruments are negotiated bilateral contracts 
and are not commonly transferred to third parties. Derivative instruments 
are normally settled contractually or, if terminated early, are terminated at 





course of business. In addition, all or a portion of these adjustments may be 
reversed or otherwise adjusted in future periods in the event of changes in the 
credit or funding risk associated with the derivative instruments.

derivative instruments for the periods indicated:Credit and funding valuation adjustments contra-liability (contra-asset)In millions of dollarsDecember 31,  2014ˇ
$(1,853)
(518)
580
19Total CVAŠderivative instruments 
(1)$(1,772)ˇ
The table below summarizes pretax gains (losses) related to changes in 





for the periods indicated:Credit/funding/debt valuation adjustments gain (loss)In millions of dollars2014
$(43)
(518)
(65)
19Total CVAŠderivative instruments
$(607)
$217Total CVA and DVA 
(1)$(390)ˇ
Valuation Process for Fair Value MeasurementsPrice verification procedures and related internal control procedures are 
governed by the Citigroup Pricing and Price Verification Policy and 
Standards
Finance has implemented the ICG Pricing and Price Verification 
Standards and Procedures to facilitate compliance with this policy.For fair value measurements of substantially all assets and liabilities held by the Company, individual business units are responsible for valuing 

the trading account assets and liabilities, and Product Control within 
Finance performs independent price verification procedures to evaluate 
those fair value measurements. Product Control is independent of the 
individual business units and reports to the Global Head of Product Control. 
It has authority over the valuation of financial assets and liabilities. Fair 
value measurements of assets and liabilities are determined using various 
techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flows and internal 
models, such as option and correlation models.260
a position involves one or more significant inputs that are not directly 
observable, price verification procedures are performed that may include 
reviewing relevant historical data, analyzing profit and loss, valuing 
each component of a structured trade individually, and benchmarking, 

among others.

meetings with senior trading management. As deemed necessary, reports may 


Directors. Whenever an adjustment is needed to bring the price of an asset or 
liability to its exit price, Product Control reports it to management along with 
other price verification results.In addition, the pricing models used in measuring fair value are governed by an independent control framework. Although the models are developed 
and tested by the individual business units, they are independently validated 


Finance with respect to their impact on the price verification procedures. The 
purpose of this independent control framework is to assess model risk arising 
from models™ theoretical soundness, calibration techniques where needed, 
and the appropriateness of the model for a specific product in a defined 
market. To ensure their continued applicability, models are independently 



a list of products permitted to be valued under each approved model for a 
given business.Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase
No quoted prices exist for such instruments, so fair value is determined using 
a discounted cash-flow technique. Cash flows are estimated based on the 
terms of the contract, taking into account any embedded derivative or other 
features. Expected cash flows are discounted using interest rates appropriate 
to the maturity of the instrument as well as the nature of the underlying 
collateral. Generally, when such instruments are held at fair value, they are 

valuation are readily observable. However, certain long-dated positions are 
Trading account assets and liabilitiesŠtrading securities and trading loans
When available, the Company generally uses quoted market prices in active 
markets to determine the fair value of trading securities; such items are 

government securities and exchange-traded equity securities.For bonds and secondary market loans traded over the counter, the 
Company generally determines fair value utilizing valuation techniques, 
including discounted cash flows, price-based and internal models, such as 

internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices obtained 

prices from various sources and may apply matrix pricing for similar bonds 
or loans where no price is observable. A price-based methodology utilizes, 
where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from 
recent trading activity of assets with similar characteristics to the bond 
or loan being valued. The yields used in discounted cash flow models are 
derived from the same price information. Trading securities and loans priced 



liquidity exists for a security or loan, a quoted price is stale, a significant 
adjustment to the price of a similar security or loan is necessary to reflect 
differences in the terms of the actual security or loan being valued, or 
prices from independent sources are insufficient to corroborate valuation, 

a price-based methodology may be zero for a security, such as a subprime 

CDO, that is not receiving any principal or interest and is currently written 
down to zero.Where the Company™s principal market for a portfolio of loans is the 
securitization market, the Company uses the securitization price to determine 
the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is determined from 
the assumed proceeds of a hypothetical securitization in the current market, 
adjusted for transformation costs (i.e., direct costs other than transaction 
costs) and securitization uncertainties such as market conditions and 
liquidity. As a result of the severe reduction in the level of activity in 

certain securitization markets since the second half of 2007, observable 
securitization prices for certain directly comparable portfolios of loans 
have not been readily available. Therefore, such portfolios of loans are 



loan securitization markets, such as commercial real estate loans, price 
verification of the hypothetical securitizations has been possible, since these 
markets have remained active. Accordingly, this loan portfolio is classified as 


Trading account assets and liabilitiesŠderivativesExchange-traded derivatives, measured at fair value using quoted 
(i.e., exchange) prices in active markets, where available, are classified as 
Derivatives without a quoted price in an active market and derivatives executed over the counter are valued using internal valuation techniques. 

depending upon the observability of the significant inputs to the model.The valuation techniques and inputs depend on the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument. The principal techniques used 
to value these instruments are discounted cash flows and internal models, 
The key inputs depend upon the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument and include interest rate yield curves, 
foreign-exchange rates, volatilities and correlation. The Company uses 
overnight indexed swap (OIS) curves as fair value measurement inputs 
for the valuation of certain collateralized derivatives. Citi uses the relevant 


uncollateralized derivatives.261As referenced above, during the third quarter of 2014, Citi incorporated 
industry migration toward incorporating the market™s view of funding risk 



in 2014, Citigroup incurred a pretax charge of $499 million, which was 
reflected in Principal transactions as a change in accounting estimate. 




funding exposure profile. The calculation of this exposure profile considers 
collateral agreements where the terms do not permit the firm to reuse 
the collateral received, including where counterparties post collateral to 
third-party custodians.Subprime-related direct exposures in CDOs
CDO positions utilizes prices based on the underlying assets of each high-
For most of the lending and structured direct subprime exposures, fair value is determined utilizing observable transactions where available, other 
market data for similar assets in markets that are not active and other 
internal valuation techniques.InvestmentsThe investments category includes available-for-sale debt and marketable 
equity securities whose fair value is generally determined by utilizing similar 
procedures described for trading securities above or, in some cases, using 
vendor pricing as the primary source.Also included in investments are nonpublic investments in private equity and real estate entities. Determining the fair value of nonpublic securities 
involves a significant degree of management resources and judgment, as 
no quoted prices exist and such securities are generally very thinly traded. 
In addition, there may be transfer restrictions on private equity securities. 
The Company™s process for determining the fair value of such securities 

utilizes commonly accepted valuation techniques, including comparables 
analysis. In determining the fair value of nonpublic securities, the Company 
also considers events such as a proposed sale of the investee company, 

initial public offerings, equity issuances or other observable transactions. As 
discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company 
uses net asset value to value certain of these investments.value hierarchy.
Short-term borrowings and long-term debt
Where fair value accounting has been elected, the fair value of non-
structured liabilities is determined by utilizing internal models using the 
appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. Such instruments are 

inputs are readily observable.The Company determines the fair value of hybrid financial instruments, including structured liabilities, using the appropriate derivative valuation 
methodology (described above in ﬁTrading account assets and liabilitiesŠ

derivativesﬂ) given the nature of the embedded risk profile. Such instruments 

significant inputs to the model.Alt-A mortgage securitiesThe Company classifies its Alt-A mortgage securities as held-to-maturity, 
available-for-sale or trading investments. The securities classified as trading 
and available-for-sale are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value 
reported in current earnings and AOCI, respectively. For these purposes, Citi 
defines Alt-A mortgage securities as non-agency residential mortgage-backed 

FICO scores between 680 and 720 or (ii) for instances where FICO scores 

composed of full documentation loans.Similar to the valuation methodologies used for other trading securities and trading loans, the Company generally determines the fair values of 
Alt-A mortgage securities utilizing internal valuation techniques. Fair value 
estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to 
prices obtained from independent vendors. Consensus data providers compile 
prices from various sources. Where available, the Company may also make 
use of quoted prices for recent trading activity in securities with the same or 
similar characteristics to the security being valued.The valuation techniques used for Alt-A mortgage securities, as with other mortgage exposures, are price-based and yield analysis. The primary market-
derived input is yield. Cash flows are based on current collateral performance 
with prepayment rates and loss projections reflective of current economic 
conditions of housing price change, unemployment rates, interest rates, 
borrower attributes and other market indicators.Alt-A mortgage securities that are valued using these methods are 

by Alt-A mortgages of lower quality or subordinated tranches in the capital 

exists for such positions, which reduces the reliability of prices available from 
independent sources.262Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisThe following tables present for each of the fair value hierarchy levels the Company™s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on 
a recurring basis at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013. The 
category is not limited to other financial instruments (hedging instruments) 


gross in the following table.Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Level 1 (1)Level 2 (1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting (2)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
 agreements to resell$Š$187,922$3,398$191,320$(47,129)$144,191Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
⁄…‹…
$Š$25,968$1,085$27,053$Š$27,053Š2,1582,6804,838Š4,838Š3,9034404,343Š4,343Total trading mortgage-backed securities
$Š$32,029$4,205$36,234$Š$36,234U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$15,991$4,483$Š$20,474$Š$20,474State and municipalŠ3,1612413,402Š3,402Foreign government
39,33226,73620666,274Š66,274CorporateŠ25,64082026,460Š26,460Equity securities51,3464,2812,21957,846Š57,846Asset-backed securitiesŠ1,2523,2944,546Š4,546Other trading assetsŠ9,2214,37213,593Š13,593Total trading non-derivative assets
$106,669$106,803$15,357$228,829$Š$228,829Trading derivatives

$74$634,318$4,061$638,453Š154,7441,250155,9942,74819,9692,03524,75264721,8501,02323,520
Š40,6182,90043,518Total trading derivatives
$3,469$871,499$11,269$886,237Cash collateral paid (3)$6,523Netting agreements$(777,178)Netting of cash collateral received (7)(47,625)Total trading derivatives
$3,469$871,499$11,269$892,760$(824,803)$67,957InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities⁄…‹…
$Š$36,053$38$36,091$Š$36,091Š8,35588,363Š8,363Š5531554Š554Total investment mortgage-backed securities
$Š$44,961$47$45,008$Š$45,008U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$110,710$12,974$6$123,690$Š$123,690State and municipal$Š$10,519$2,180$12,699$Š$12,699Foreign government
39,01451,00567890,697Š90,697Corporate511,48067212,157Š12,157Equity securities1,7702746812,725Š2,725Asset-backed securitiesŠ11,95754912,506Š12,506Other debt securitiesŠ661Š661Š661Non-marketable equity securitiesŠ2332,5252,758Š2,758Total investments
$151,499$144,064$7,338$302,901$Š$302,901263In millions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Level 1 (1)Level 2 (1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting (2)Net balanceLoans (4)$Š$2,793$3,108$5,901$Š$5,901Mortgage servicing rights
ŠŠ1,8451,845Š1,845Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
 on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$9,352$78$9,430Cash collateral paid (5)123Netting of cash collateral received (8)$(1,791)Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
 on a recurring basis$Š$9,352$78$9,553$(1,791)$7,762Total assets
$261,637$1,322,433$42,393$1,633,109$(873,723)$759,386Total as a percentage of gross assets 
(6)16.1%81.3%2.6%LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$Š$1,198$486$1,684$Š$1,684Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
 agreements to repurchaseŠ82,8111,04383,854(47,129)36,725Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
59,46311,05742470,944Š70,944Trading derivatives

77617,9334,272622,282Š158,354472158,8262,95526,6162,89832,46966922,8722,64526,186
Š39,7873,64343,430Total trading derivatives
$3,701$865,562$13,930$883,193Cash collateral received (7)$9,846Netting agreements$(777,178)Netting of cash collateral paid(47,769)Total trading derivatives
$3,701$865,562$13,930$893,039$(824,947)$68,092Short-term borrowings$Š$1,152$344$1,496$Š$1,496Long-term debtŠ18,8907,29026,180Š26,180Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
 on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$1,777$7$1,784Cash collateral received (8)7Netting of cash collateral paid (5)$(15)Total non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
 on a recurring basis$Š$1,777$7$1,791$(15)$1,776Total liabilities
$63,164$982,447$23,524$1,078,988$(872,091)$206,897Total as a percentage of gross liabilities 
(6)5.9%91.9%2.2%ˇˇ

ˇ


ˇ


ˇ


ˇ
ˇ
ˇ


ˇ−˚‡
ˇ
ˇ−˚‡
ˇ


ˇ−˚‡
ˇ
ˇ−˚‡
264Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇˆ˘ˇˆ˘˙˙AssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
 agreements to resell˘Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
†“‘“
Total trading mortgage-backed securities
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
State and municipalForeign government
CorporateEquity securitiesAsset-backed securitiesOther trading assetsTotal trading non-derivative assets
Trading derivatives

ˆˆ
Total trading derivatives
Cash collateral paid (3)Netting agreements˘Netting of cash collateral received (6)˘Total trading derivatives
˘InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities†“‘“
Total investment mortgage-backed securities
U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
State and municipalForeign government
CorporateEquity securitiesAsset-backed securitiesOther debt securitiesNon-marketable equity securitiesTotal investments
‰
265In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting(2)Net balanceLoans (4)Mortgage servicing rights
Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
on a recurring basis, gross
Cash collateral paidNetting of cash collateral received (7)˘Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
on a recurring basis˘Total assets
˘Total as a percentage of gross assets
 (5)„„„LiabilitiesInterest-bearing depositsFederal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchase˘Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
Trading account derivatives


Total trading derivatives
Cash collateral received (6)Netting agreements˘Netting of cash collateral paid (3)˘Total trading derivatives
˘Short-term borrowingsLong-term debtNon-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
on a recurring basis, gross
Cash collateral received (7)Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
on a recurring basisTotal liabilities
˘Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (5)„„„ˇˆ˘˙˙
˙˙

˙
˙˙˙‰

˙

˙
˙
˙
˙


˙…˚‚
˙
˙


˙…˚‚
˙…˚‚
266Changes in Level 3 Fair Value CategoryThe following tables present the changes in the Level 3 fair value category for 
the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. As discussed above, the Company 

classifies financial instruments as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when 

there is reliance on at least one significant unobservable input to the valuation 

model. In addition to these unobservable inputs, the valuation models for 

Level 3 financial instruments typically also rely on a number of inputs that are 

readily observable either directly or indirectly. The gains and losses presented 

below include changes in the fair value related to both observable and 

unobservable inputs.The Company often hedges positions with offsetting positions that are classified in a different level. For example, the gains and losses for assets 
and liabilities in the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not 
reflect the effect of offsetting losses and gains on hedging instruments that 
have been classified by the Company in the Level 1 and Level 2 categories. In 
addition, the Company hedges items classified in the Level 3 category with 
instruments also classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The effects of 

these hedges are presented gross in the following tables.Level 3 Fair Value RollforwardIn millions of dollars˙
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlementsDec. 31, 
2014Unrealized gains  (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell$(61)$Š$84$(8)$75$Š$Š$(258)$3,398$133Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed 
securities†“‘“

117Š854(966)71426(695)(59)1,0858457Š442(514)2,582Š(3,141)Š2,68013217Š187(376)758Š(402)Š440(4)Total trading mortgage-
backed securities$591$Š$1,483$(1,856)$4,054$26$(4,238)$(59)$4,205$136U.S. Treasury and federal 
agency securities
$3$Š$Š$Š$7$Š$(10)$Š$Š$ŠState and municipal10Š150(105)34Š(70)Š2411Foreign government
(56)Š130(253)676Š(707)Š2065Corporate(127)Š465(502)1,988Š(2,839)Š820(139)Equity securities87Š142(209)1,437Š(295)Š2,219337Asset-backed securities876Š158(332)3,893Š(5,643)Š3,2943Other trading assets269Š2,637(2,278)5,427Š(4,490)(377)4,37231Total trading non-derivative assets
$1,653$Š$5,165$(5,535)$17,478$26$(18,292)$(398)$15,357$374Trading derivatives, net
 (4)
$(818)$Š$24$(98)$113$Š$(162)$(109)$(211)$(414)92Š47(39)59Š(59)(17)77856˘482Š(916)766435Š(279)(493)(863)(274)˘(338)Š92(12)ŠŠŠ29(1,622)(174)
˘(567)Š4(156)103Š(3)150(743)(369)Total trading derivatives, net
 (4)ˇ‡‡ˆ˘$(1,149)$Š$(749)$461$710$Š$(503)$(440)$(2,661)$(1,175)‰

“267In millions of dollars˙
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlementsDec. 31, 
2014Unrealized gains  (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities†“‘“

$Š$52$60$(203)$17$Š$(73)$(2)$38$(8)Š3331(2)17Š(173)Š8ŠŠ(6)4(7)10ŠŠŠ1ŠTotal investment mortgage-
backed securities$Š$79$95$(212)$44$Š$(246)$(2)$47$(8)U.S. Treasury and federal 
agency securities
$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$(2)$Š$6$ŠState and municipalŠ(64)811(584)923Š(549)Š2,18049Foreign government
Š(27)286(105)851Š(490)(181)678(17)CorporateŠ(6)26(143)728Š(218)Š672(4)Equity securitiesŠ11119(19)10Š(255)Š681(78)Asset-backed securitiesŠ41Š(47)95Š(195)(1,305)549(18)Other debt securitiesŠ(1)ŠŠ116Š(115)(50)ŠŠNon-marketable equity securitiesŠ9467Š707Š(787)(1,903)2,52581Total investments
$Š$227$1,304$(1,110)$3,371$Š$(2,857)$(3,338)$7,338$5Loans$Š$(233)$92$6$951$197$(895)$(1,153)$3,108$37Mortgage servicing rights
Š(390)ŠŠŠ217(317)(383)1,845(390)Other financial assets measured on a recurring basisŠ100(83)Š3164(10)(277)7814LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$Š$357$5$(12)$Š$127$Š$(167)$486$(69)Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase(6)Š54Š78Š220(217)1,043(34)Trading account liabilities

(81)Š79(111)ŠŠ534(749)424(58)Short-term borrowings(31)Š323(12)Š49Š(76)344(8)Long-term debt109492,701(4,206)Š3,893Š(2,561)7,290(446)Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basisŠ(5)5(3)Š1(3)(8)7(4)ˇˆ˘˙
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
˙Other revenue
˙
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
˙‚

˙
˙
˙‰
˙“
268In millions of dollars˙
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements˙
Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell˘˘˘˘Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
†“‘“
˙
˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘Total trading mortgage-backed 
securities˘˘˘U.S. Treasury and federal 
 agency securities
ˇˆ˘˘State and municipal‡˘Foreign government
˘˘˘Corporate˘˘˘˘˘Equity securities˘˘Asset-backed securities˘˘˘Other trading assets˘˘˘˘Total trading non-derivative assets
˘˘˘˘Trading derivatives, net 
(4)
˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘˘
˘˘˘˘˘Total trading derivatives, net 
(4)˘˘˘ˇ‡‡ˆ˘˘InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities†“‘“
˙
˘˘˘˘ˆˆ˘˘˘Total investment mortgage-
 backed securities˘˘˘U.S. Treasury and federal 
 agency securities
˘State and municipal˘˘˘˘Foreign government
˘˘˘˘Corporate˘ˇˆˆ‡˘˘˘Equity securitiesˆ‡ˇˆ˘ˆ˘Asset-backed securities˘˘˘Other debt securities˘˘Non-marketable equity securities˘˘Total investments
˘˘˘‰

“269In millions of dollars˙
Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements˙
Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3Loans˘˘˘˘Mortgage servicing rights
˘˘Other financial assets measured on a recurring basisˆ˘˘˘LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits˘˘˘˘Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase‡ˆ˘˘Trading account liabilities

˘˘Short-term borrowings˘˘˘Long-term debt˘ˇˆ˘˘Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basis˘˘˘˘ˇ‡˘ˇˆ˘˙
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)


Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
˙Other revenue
˙
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
˙‚


˙‰“
Level 3 Fair Value RollforwardThe following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period 
December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014:Transfers of Long-term debt of $2.7 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and of $4.2 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, mainly related to structured debt, 
reflecting changes in the significance of unobservable inputs as well as 
certain underlying market inputs becoming less or more observable.Transfers of Other trading assets of $2.6 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, 
and of $2.3 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, related to trading loans, 
reflecting changes in the volume of market quotations.The following were the significant Level 3 transfers from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013:Transfers of Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell of $1.9 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 related 
to shortening of the remaining tenor of certain reverse repos. There is 
more transparency and observability for repo curves used in the valuation 
of structured reverse repos with tenors up to five years; thus, structured 
reverse repos maturing within five years are generally classified as Level 2.Transfers of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-
backed securities in Investments of $2.1 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, 
and of $3.8 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, due to changes in the level of 
price observability for the specific securities. Similarly, there were transfers 
of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-backed 
securities in Trading securities of $1.4 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and 
of $1.5 billion from Level 3 to Level 2.Transfers of asset-backed securities in Investments of $1.2 billion from 
Level 2 to Level 3, and of $1.7 billion from Level 3 to Level 2. These 
transfers were related to collateralized loan obligations, reflecting changes 
in the level of price observability.Transfers of Long-term debt of $3.7 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, 
included $1.3 billion related to the transfer of a previously bifurcated 
hybrid debt instrument from Level 2 to Level 3 to reflect the host contract 
and the reclassification of Level 3 commodity contracts into Long-term debt. The remaining amounts of 
Long-term debt
 transferred from Level 2 
to Level 3 as well as the $2.5 billion transfer from Level 3 to Level 2 were 
related mainly to structured debt reflecting changes in the significance 
of unobservable inputs as well as certain underlying market inputs 
becoming less or more observable.270Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Fair Value MeasurementsThe Company™s Level 3 inventory consists of both cash securities and 
derivatives of varying complexities. The valuation methodologies applied 
to measure the fair value of these positions include discounted cash 
flow analyses, internal models and comparative analysis. A position is 
classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when at least one input 
is unobservable and is considered significant to its valuation. The specific 
reason an input is deemed unobservable varies. For example, at least one 
significant input to the pricing model is not observable in the market, at least one significant input has been adjusted to make it more representative of the 
position being valued, or the price quote available does not reflect sufficient 
trading activities.The following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 inventory and the most significant unobservable inputs 
used in Level 3 fair value measurements as of December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013. Differences between this table and amounts presented 
in the Level 3 Fair Value Rollforward table represent individually immaterial 

items that have been measured using a variety of valuation techniques other 
than those listed.Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Fair Value MeasurementsAs of December 31, 2014
Fair Value
 (in millions) (1) Methodology
InputLow (2)(3)High (2)(3)Weighted
 Average
 (4)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell$3,156
„„„Mortgage-backed securities$2,8741,117ž
ž
„ˆ‡“‡ˆ„„State and municipal, foreign 
government, corporate and
 other debt securities$5,9371,860
Equity securities (5)$2,163679
ž
„„„˜
Asset-backed securities$3,607Non-marketable equity$1,224„„„1,055
⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄¢˙
ˆDerivativesŠGross 
(6)
$8,309
˙
„„„„„„
$1,428
„„„294

„„„
„„„
$4,431
„„„502
„„„
˘„„˘„
˘„„„‰

“271As of December 31, 2014
Fair Value
 (in millions) (1) Methodology
InputLow (2)(3)High (2)(3)Weighted
 Average
 (4)
$3,606
„„„
˘„„„„„„
$4,944
„„„1,584
„„„ˆ


$74
„„„11„„„¢
Loans$1,095
ž
„„„832740ˆ‡‡441ž
Mortgage servicing rights
$1,750
ž
„„„˜
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$486
„„„
˘„„„
„„„„„„Federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under agreements  to repurchase$1,043
„„„Trading account liabilities

$251
˘„„„$142Short-term borrowings and  long-term debt$7,204
„„„„„„
„„„
„„„
„„„„„„
˘„„„
„„„‰

“272As of December 31, 2013
¢
˙(in millions)˙ˇˆ˘˙

˙¡
AssetsFederal funds sold and securities
 borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell
„„„Mortgage-backed securitiesž
ž
„„„State and municipal, foreign
 government, corporate and
 other debt securities
ˆˆEquity securities (5)
ž
„„„˜
Asset-backed securitiesNon-marketable equity¢˙

⁄⁄⁄
„„„
⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄DerivativesŠGross
 (6)

˙
„„„

„„„

„„„
„„„
„„„

„„„
„„„
˘„„„
˘„„„

„„„
˘„„„„„„

„„„
„„„‰

273As of December 31, 2013
¢
˙(in millions)˙ˇˆ˘˙

˙¡

˙
˙
⁄⁄⁄

⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄¢
„„„Loans‡ˆ“ˆ‡ž
„„„ž
Mortgage servicing rights

ž
„„„˜
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits
„„„„„„
„„„„„„
˘„„„
„„„Federal funds purchased and
 securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase
„„„Trading account liabilities


˘„„˘„Short-term borrowings and long-term debt
„„„
„„„
„„„
˘„„„
˘„„„
„„„„„„ˇˆ˘˙
˙˙“
˙
˙
˙
˙274Sensitivity to Unobservable Inputs and Interrelationships between Unobservable InputsThe impact of key unobservable inputs on the Level 3 fair value 
measurements may not be independent of one another. In addition, the 
amount and direction of the impact on a fair value measurement for a given 
change in an unobservable input depends on the nature of the instrument as 
well as whether the Company holds the instrument as an asset or a liability. 
For certain instruments, the pricing, hedging and risk management are 
sensitive to the correlation between various inputs rather than on the analysis 
and aggregation of the individual inputs.The following section describes the sensitivities and interrelationships of the most significant unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair 
value measurements.CorrelationCorrelation is a measure of the co-movement between two or more variables. 
A variety of correlation-related assumptions are required for a wide range of 
instruments, including equity and credit baskets, foreign-exchange options, 
CDOs backed by loans or bonds, mortgages, subprime mortgages and many 
other instruments. For almost all of these instruments, correlations are not 
observable in the market and must be estimated using historical information. 
Estimating correlation can be especially difficult where it may vary over time. 
Extracting correlation information from market data requires significant 
assumptions regarding the informational efficiency of the market (for 
example, swaption markets). Changes in correlation levels can have a major 
impact, favorable or unfavorable, on the value of an instrument, depending 
on its nature. A change in the default correlation of the fair value of the 
underlying bonds comprising a CDO structure would affect the fair value of 
the senior tranche. For example, an increase in the default correlation of the 
underlying bonds would reduce the fair value of the senior tranche, because 
highly correlated instruments produce larger losses in the event of default 
and a part of these losses would become attributable to the senior tranche. 
That same change in default correlation would have a different impact on 
junior tranches of the same structure.VolatilityVolatility represents the speed and severity of market price changes and is 
a key factor in pricing options. Typically, instruments can become more 
expensive if volatility increases. For example, as an index becomes more 
volatile, the cost to Citi of maintaining a given level of exposure increases 
because more frequent rebalancing of the portfolio is required. Volatility 
generally depends on the tenor of the underlying instrument and the strike 
price or level defined in the contract. Volatilities for certain combinations 
of tenor and strike are not observable. The general relationship between 
changes in the value of a portfolio to changes in volatility also depends on 
changes in interest rates and the level of the underlying index. Generally, 
long option positions (assets) benefit from increases in volatility, whereas short option positions (liabilities) will suffer losses. Some instruments are 
more sensitive to changes in volatility than others. For example, an at-the-
money option would experience a larger percentage change in its fair value 
than a deep-in-the-money option. In addition, the fair value of an option 
with more than one underlying security (for example, an option on a basket 
of bonds) depends on the volatility of the individual underlying securities as 
well as their correlations.YieldAdjusted yield is generally used to discount the projected future principal and 
interest cash flows on instruments, such as asset-backed securities. Adjusted 
yield is impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and relevant 
credit spreads.In some circumstances, the yield of an instrument is not observable in the market and must be estimated from historical data or from yields of 
similar securities. This estimated yield may need to be adjusted to capture the 
characteristics of the security being valued. In other situations, the estimated 
yield may not represent sufficient market liquidity and must be adjusted as 
well. Whenever the amount of the adjustment is significant to the value of 
the security, the fair value measurement is classified as Level
 3.PrepaymentVoluntary unscheduled payments (prepayments) change the future cash 
flows for the investor and thereby change the fair value of the security. The 
effect of prepayments is more pronounced for residential mortgage-backed 
securities. An increase in prepaymentsŠin speed or magnitudeŠgenerally 
creates losses for the holder of these securities. Prepayment is generally 
negatively correlated with delinquency and interest rate. A combination 
of low prepayment and high delinquencies amplify each input™s negative 
impact on mortgage securities™ valuation. As prepayment speeds change, the 
weighted average life of the security changes, which impacts the valuation 
either positively or negatively, depending upon the nature of the security and 
the direction of the change in the weighted average life.RecoveryRecovery is the proportion of the total outstanding balance of a bond or loan 
that is expected to be collected in a liquidation scenario. For many credit 
securities (such as asset-backed securities), there is no directly observable 
market input for recovery, but indications of recovery levels are available 
from pricing services. The assumed recovery of a security may differ from 
its actual recovery that will be observable in the future. The recovery rate 
impacts the valuation of credit securities. Generally, an increase in the 
recovery rate assumption increases the fair value of the security. An increase 
in loss severity, the inverse of the recovery rate, reduces the amount of 
principal available for distribution and, as a result, decreases the fair value of 
the security.275Credit SpreadCredit spread is a component of the security representing its credit quality. 
Credit spread reflects the market perception of changes in prepayment, 
delinquency and recovery rates, therefore capturing the impact of other 
variables on the fair value. Changes in credit spread affect the fair value of 
securities differently depending on the characteristics and maturity profile of 
the security. For example, credit spread is a more significant driver of the fair 
value measurement of a high yield bond as compared to an investment grade 
bond. Generally, the credit spread for an investment grade bond is also more 
observable and less volatile than its high yield counterpart.Qualitative Discussion of the Ranges of Significant 
Unobservable InputsThe following section describes the ranges of the most significant 
unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair value 
measurements. The level of aggregation and the diversity of instruments held 
by the Company lead to a wide range of unobservable inputs that may not be 
evenly distributed across the Level 3 inventory.CorrelationThere are many different types of correlation inputs, including credit 
correlation, cross-asset correlation (such as equity-interest rate correlation), 
and same-asset correlation (such as interest rate-interest rate correlation). 
Correlation inputs are generally used to value hybrid and exotic instruments. 
Generally, same-asset correlation inputs have a narrower range than cross-
asset correlation inputs. However, due to the complex and unique nature 
of these instruments, the ranges for correlation inputs can vary widely 
across portfolios.VolatilitySimilar to correlation, asset-specific volatility inputs vary widely by asset type. 
For example, ranges for foreign exchange volatility are generally lower and 
narrower than equity volatility. Equity volatilities are wider due to the nature 
of the equities market and the terms of certain exotic instruments. For most 
instruments, the interest rate volatility input is on the lower end of the range; 
however, for certain structured or exotic instruments (such as market-linked 
deposits or exotic interest rate derivatives), the range is much wider.YieldRanges for the yield inputs vary significantly depending upon the type of 
security. For example, securities that typically have lower yields, such as 
municipal bonds, will fall on the lower end of the range, while more illiquid 
securities or securities with lower credit quality, such as certain residual 
tranche asset-backed securities, will have much higher yield inputs.Credit Spread
Credit spread is relevant primarily for fixed income and credit instruments; 
however, the ranges for the credit spread input can vary across instruments. 
For example, certain fixed income instruments, such as certificates of deposit, 
typically have lower credit spreads, whereas certain derivative instruments 
with high-risk counterparties are typically subject to higher credit spreads 
when they are uncollateralized or have a longer tenor. Other instruments, 
such as credit default swaps, also have credit spreads that vary with the 
attributes of the underlying obligor. Stronger companies have tighter credit 
spreads, and weaker companies have wider credit spreads.PriceThe price input is a significant unobservable input for certain fixed income 
instruments. For these instruments, the price input is expressed as a 
percentage of the notional amount, with a price of $100 meaning that the 
instrument is valued at par. For most of these instruments, the price varies 
between zero to $100, or slightly above $100. Relatively illiquid assets that 
have experienced significant losses since issuance, such as certain asset-
backed securities, are at the lower end of the range, whereas most investment 
grade corporate bonds will fall in the middle to the higher end of the range. 
For certain structured debt instruments with embedded derivatives, the price 
input may be above $100 to reflect the embedded features of the instrument 
(for example, a step-up coupon or a conversion option).The price input is also a significant unobservable input for certain equity securities; however, the range of price inputs varies depending on the nature 

of the position, the number of shares outstanding and other factors.276Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring BasisCertain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and therefore are not included in the tables above. These include assets 
measured at cost that have been written down to fair value during the periods 
as a result of an impairment. In addition, these assets include loans held-
for-sale and other real estate owned that are measured at the lower of cost 
or market.The following table presents the carrying amounts of all assets that were still held as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, for which a 
nonrecurring fair value measurement was recorded:In millions of dollarsFair value
Level 2Level 3December 31, 2014

$4,152$1,084$3,068
1022181˙ˇˆ˘3,3672,881486Total assets at fair value on a 
 nonrecurring basis$7,621$3,986$3,635ˇˆ˘˙

In millions of dollars˜˚˛˚˝˙˜˚˛˚˝˙


ˇˆ˘Total assets at fair value on a 
 nonrecurring basisˇˆ˘˙


The fair value of loans-held-for-sale is determined where possible using 
quoted secondary-market prices. If no such quoted price exists, the fair value 
of a loan is determined using quoted prices for a similar asset or assets, 
adjusted for the specific attributes of that loan. Fair value for the other real 
estate owned is based on appraisals. For loans whose carrying amount is 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, the fair values depend 
on the type of collateral. Fair value of the collateral is typically estimated 
based on quoted market prices if available, appraisals or other internal 
valuation techniques.Where the fair value of the related collateral is based on an unadjusted appraised value, the loan is generally classified as Level 2. Where significant 
adjustments are made to the appraised value, the loan is classified as Level 3. 
Additionally, for corporate loans, appraisals of the collateral are often based 

on sales of similar assets; however, because the prices of similar assets require 

significant adjustments to reflect the unique features of the underlying 
collateral, these fair value measurements are generally classified as Level 3.Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Nonrecurring Fair Value MeasurementsThe following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurements and the most significant 
unobservable inputs used in those measurements as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:Fair
 Value
(1)Weighted
 averageAs of December 31, 2014
(in millions)Methodology
InputLowHigh(2)Loans held-for-sale
$2,740˙
˙
˙
Other real estate owned$76¢
„„„Loans (3)$437„„„ˇˆ˘˙
˙
˙
˙
277˙¢
ˇˆ˘
˙
As of December 31, 2013
 (in millions)
Loans held-for-sale
˙
Other real estate owned„„„¢
Loans (5)„„„¢
ˇˆ˘˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
Nonrecurring Fair Value ChangesThe following table presents total nonrecurring fair value measurements for the period, included in earnings, attributable to the change in fair 
value relating to assets that are still held at December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013:In millions of dollarsYear ended 
 December 31, 201
4
$34
(16˘ˇˆ˘(533˘Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
$(515˘ˇˆ˘˙


In millions of dollarsž
˙


˘ˇˆ˘˘Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
˘ˇˆ˘˙


278Estimated Fair Value of Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair ValueThe table below presents the carrying value and fair value of Citigroup™s 
financial instruments that are not carried at fair value. The table below 
therefore excludes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
presented in the tables above.The disclosure also excludes leases, affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations and insurance policy claim reserves. In addition, 
contract-holder fund amounts exclude certain insurance contracts. Also, as 
required, the disclosure excludes the effect of taxes, any premium or discount 
that could result from offering for sale at one time the entire holdings of a 
particular instrument, excess fair value associated with deposits with no fixed 
maturity, and other expenses that would be incurred in a market transaction. 

In addition, the table excludes the values of non-financial assets and 
liabilities, as well as a wide range of franchise, relationship and intangible 
values, which are integral to a full assessment of Citigroup™s financial 

position and the value of its net assets.The fair value represents management™s best estimates based on a 
range of methodologies and assumptions. The carrying value of short-term 
financial instruments not accounted for at fair value, as well as receivables 
and payables arising in the ordinary course of business, approximates fair 
value because of the relatively short period of time between their origination 
and expected realization. Quoted market prices are used when available 
for investments and for liabilities, such as long-term debt not carried 
at fair value. For loans not accounted for at fair value, cash flows are 
discounted at quoted secondary market rates or estimated market rates if 
available. Otherwise, sales of comparable loan portfolios or current market 
origination rates for loans with similar terms and risk characteristics are 
used. Expected credit losses are either embedded in the estimated future 
cash flows or incorporated as an adjustment to the discount rate used. The 
value of collateral is also considered. For liabilities such as long-term debt 
not accounted for at fair value and without quoted market prices, market 
borrowing rates of interest are used to discount contractual cash flows.December 31, 2014
Estimated fair value
In billions of dollarsCarrying value
Estimated fair value
Level 1Level 2Level 3Assets$30.5$32.2$4.5$25.2$2.5
98.498.4Š89.78.7620.0617.6Š5.6612.0213.8213.88.3151.953.6Liabilities$897.6$894.0$Š$746.2$147.8
136.7136.7Š136.50.2196.9202.5Š172.729.8
136.2136.2Š41.494.8

In billions of dollars

˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆ˜˚˛˚˝˙˜˚˛˚˝˙Assetsˆˆ“‡
Liabilities

ˇˆ˘˙
Allowance for loan losses

˙
˙

˙
˙“
˙
˙
Other assets˙‚


˙
˙
Other liabilities
˙‚


Fair values vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including interest rates, credit quality and market perceptions 
of value, and as existing assets and liabilities run off and new transactions 
are entered into. The estimated fair values of loans reflect changes in credit 
status since the loans were made, changes in interest rates in the case of 
fixed-rate loans, and premium values at origination of certain loans.The estimated fair values of the Company™s corporate unfunded lending 
commitments at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 were liabilities 
of $5.5 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, substantially all of which are 

classified as Level 3. The Company does not estimate the fair values of 
consumer unfunded lending commitments, which are generally cancelable 
by providing notice to the borrower.
27926. FAIR VALUE ELECTIONSThe Company may elect to report most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis with 
changes in fair value reported in earnings. The election is made upon the 
initial recognition of an eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm 
commitment or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair 
value election may not be revoked once an election is made. The changes in 
fair value are recorded in current earnings. Additional discussion regarding 
the applicable areas in which fair value elections were made is presented in 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.All servicing rights are recognized initially at fair value. The Company has elected fair value accounting for its mortgage servicing rights. See Note 22 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions regarding the 
accounting and reporting of MSRs.The following table presents the changes in fair value gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 associated with those items for 
which the fair value option was elected:Changes in fair value gains 
 (losses) for the Years 
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2014Assets
$812˘
‰
190˘30˘
ˇˆ˘(135)ˇˆ˘(41)˘‰
$(176)˘$(344)
474‰
$130Total assets
$986Liabilities$(77)

(5)‰
298(307)˘Total liabilities
$(352)ˇˆ˘˙
Consolidation
˙ˇ‘ƒ¡‘
˙
˙
˙
280Own Debt Valuation AdjustmentsOwn debt valuation adjustments are recognized on Citi™s liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected using Citi™s credit spreads observed in 
the bond market. The fair value of liabilities for which the fair value option 
is elected (other than non-recourse and similar liabilities) is impacted by 
the narrowing or widening of the Company™s credit spreads. The estimated 
change in the fair value of these liabilities due to such changes in the 
Company™s own credit risk (or instrument-specific credit risk) was a gain of 
$218 million and a loss of $412 million for the years ended December 31, 
2014 and 2013, respectively. Changes in fair value resulting from changes 
in instrument-specific credit risk were estimated by incorporating the 
Company™s current credit spreads observable in the bond market into the 
relevant valuation technique used to value each liability as described above.The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial 
LiabilitiesSelected portfolios of securities purchased under 
agreements to resell, securities borrowed, securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase, securities loaned and 
certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings
The Company elected the fair value option for certain portfolios of fixed-
income securities purchased under agreements to resell and fixed-income 
securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities borrowed, securities 
loaned, and certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings held primarily by broker-dealer entities in the United States, United Kingdom and Japan. 
In each case, the election was made because the related interest-rate risk is 
managed on a portfolio basis, primarily with derivative instruments that are 
accounted for at fair value through earnings.Changes in fair value for transactions in these portfolios are recorded in Principal transactions. The related interest revenue and interest expense are 
measured based on the contractual rates specified in the transactions and 
are reported as interest revenue and expense in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Certain loans and other credit productsCitigroup has elected the fair value option for certain originated and 
purchased loans, including certain unfunded loan products, such as 
guarantees and letters of credit, executed by Citigroup™s lending and trading 
businesses. None of these credit products are highly leveraged financing 
commitments. Significant groups of transactions include loans and 
unfunded loan products that are expected to be either sold or securitized in 
the near term, or transactions where the economic risks are hedged with 
derivative instruments, such as purchased credit default swaps or total return 
swaps where the Company pays the total return on the underlying loans to a 
third party. Citigroup has elected the fair value option to mitigate accounting 
mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is complex and to achieve 
operational simplifications. Fair value was not elected for most lending 
transactions across the Company.The following table provides information about certain credit products carried at fair value at December 31, 2014 and 2013:December 31, 2014

In millions of dollarsTrading assets
Loans‰

$10,290$5,901
(26)125˘˙
133
˙˙
281In addition to the amounts reported above, $2,335 million and $2,308 million of unfunded loan commitments related to certain credit products 
selected for fair value accounting were outstanding as of December 31, 2014 
and 2013, respectively.
Changes in fair value of funded and unfunded credit products are classified in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue on Trading 

account assets or loan interest depending on the balance sheet classifications 
of the credit products. The changes in fair value for the years ended 
December 31, 2014 and 2013 due to instrument-specific credit risk totaled to 
a loss of $155 million and a gain of $4 million, respectively.
Certain investments in unallocated precious metalsCitigroup invests in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, silver, 
platinum and palladium) as part of its commodity and foreign currency 
trading activities or to economically hedge certain exposures from issuing 
structured liabilities. Under ASC 815, the investment is bifurcated into a debt 
host contract and a commodity forward derivative instrument. Citigroup elects the fair value option for the debt host contract, and reports the debt 
host contract within Trading account assets on the Company™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. The total carrying amount of debt host contracts across 
unallocated precious metals accounts was approximately $1.2 billion and 
$1.3 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The amounts are 
expected to fluctuate based on trading activity in future periods.As part of its commodity and foreign currency trading activities, Citi sells (buys) unallocated precious metals investments and executes forward 
purchase (sale) derivative contracts with trading counterparties. When 
Citi sells an unallocated precious metals investment, Citi™s receivable from 

its depository bank is repaid and Citi derecognizes its investment in the 
unallocated precious metal. The forward purchase (sale) contract with the 
trading counterparty indexed to unallocated precious metals is accounted 
for as a derivative, at fair value through earnings. As of December 31, 2014, 
there were approximately $7.2 billion and $6.7 billion notional amounts 
of such forward purchase and forward sale derivative contracts 
outstanding, respectively.
281Certain investments in private equity and real estate ventures and certain equity method and other investments
Citigroup invests in private equity and real estate ventures for the purpose 
of earning investment returns and for capital appreciation. The Company 
has elected the fair value option for certain of these ventures, because such 
investments are considered similar to many private equity or hedge fund 
activities in Citi™s investment companies, which are reported at fair value. 
The fair value option brings consistency in the accounting and evaluation of 
these investments. All investments (debt and equity) in such private equity 
and real estate entities are accounted for at fair value. These investments are 
classified as Investments on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Changes in the fair values of these investments are classified in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income.
Citigroup also elects the fair value option for certain non-marketable equity securities whose risk is managed with derivative instruments that are 
accounted for at fair value through earnings. These securities are classified as 
Trading account assets
 on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes 

in the fair value of these securities and the related derivative instruments are 
recorded in Principal transactions.Certain mortgage loans HFSCitigroup has elected the fair value option for certain purchased and 
originated prime fixed-rate and conforming adjustable-rate first mortgage 
loans HFS. These loans are intended for sale or securitization and are hedged 
with derivative instruments. The Company has elected the fair value option 
to mitigate accounting mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is 
complex and to achieve operational simplifications.The following table provides information about certain mortgage loans HFS carried at fair value at December 31, 2014 and 2013:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014


$1,447
67˙
Š
˙
ŠThe changes in fair values of these mortgage loans are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. There was no 

net change in fair value during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 
due to instrument-specific credit risk. Related interest income continues to 
be measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income.Certain consolidated VIEsThe Company has elected the fair value option for all qualified assets 
and liabilities of certain VIEs that were consolidated upon the adoption 
of SFAS 167 on January 1, 2010, including certain private label mortgage 
securitizations, mutual fund deferred sales commissions and collateralized 
loan obligation VIEs. The Company elected the fair value option for these 
VIEs, as the Company believes this method better reflects the economic risks, 
since substantially all of the Company™s retained interests in these entities are 
carried at fair value.With respect to the consolidated mortgage VIEs, the Company determined the fair value for the mortgage loans and long-term debt utilizing internal 
valuation techniques. The fair value of the long-term debt measured using 
internal valuation techniques is verified, where possible, to prices obtained 
from independent vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and 

may apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. 
Security pricing associated with long-term debt that is valued using 
observable inputs is classified as Level 2, and debt that is valued using one or 
more significant unobservable inputs is classified as Level 3. The fair value of mortgage loans in each VIE is derived from the security pricing. When 
substantially all of the long-term debt of a VIE is valued using Level 2 inputs, 
the corresponding mortgage loans are classified as Level 2. Otherwise, the 
mortgage loans of a VIE are classified as Level 3.With respect to the consolidated mortgage VIEs for which the fair value option was elected, the mortgage loans are classified as Loans on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The changes in fair value of 

the loans are reported as Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue in the Company™s 
Consolidated Statement of Income. Information about these mortgage loans 
is included in the table below. The change in fair value of these loans due to 

instrument-specific credit risk was a loss of $48 million and $156 million for 
the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
The debt issued by these consolidated VIEs is classified as long-term debt on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The changes in fair value for the 

majority of these liabilities are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s 
Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest expense is measured 
based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The aggregate unpaid principal 
balance of long-term debt of these consolidated VIEs exceeded the aggregate 
fair value by $9 million and $223 million as of December 31, 2014 and 
2013, respectively.
282The following table provides information about corporate and consumer loans of consolidated VIEs carried at fair value at December 31, 2014 and 2013:December 31, 2014

In millions of dollarsCorporate loansConsumer loans

$Š$Š
9Š˙
ŠŠ
˙˙
ŠŠCertain structured liabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain structured 
liabilities whose performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation, 
currency, equity, referenced credit or commodity risks (structured liabilities). 
The Company elected the fair value option, because these exposures are considered to be trading-related positions and, therefore, are managed on a 
fair value basis. These positions will continue to be classified as debt, deposits 
or derivatives (Trading account liabilities) on the Company™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet according to their legal form.The following table provides information about the carrying value of structured notes, disaggregated by type of embedded derivative instrument at December 31, 
2014 and 2013:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014


$10.90.38.01.42.5Total
$23.1The change in fair value of these structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. 

Changes in fair value of these structured liabilities include an economic 
component for accrued interest, which is included in the change in fair value 
reported in Principal transactions.Certain non-structured liabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain non-structured 
liabilities with fixed and floating interest rates (non-structured liabilities). 
The Company has elected the fair value option where the interest-rate risk of such liabilities is economically hedged with derivative contracts or the 
proceeds are used to purchase financial assets that will also be accounted 
for at fair value through earnings. The election has been made to mitigate 
accounting mismatches and to achieve operational simplifications. These 
positions are reported in Short-term borrowings and Long-term debt on 
the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in fair value of 
these non-structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest expense on 
non-structured liabilities is measured based on the contractual interest rates 
and reported as Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.The following table provides information about long-term debt carried at fair value, excluding debt issued by consolidated VIEs, at December 31, 2014 and 2013:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014


$26,180
(151)˘The following table provides information about short-term borrowings carried at fair value at December 31, 2014 and 2013:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2014


$1,496
31˘283
27. PLEDGED ASSETS, COLLATERAL, GUARANTEES 
AND COMMITMENTS
Pledged Assets
In connection with the Company™s financing and trading activities, the 
Company has pledged assets to collateralize its obligations under repurchase 
agreements, secured financing agreements, secured liabilities of consolidated 
VIEs and other borrowings. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the approximate 
carrying values of the significant components of pledged assets recognized on 
the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet included:
In
 
millions of dollars
2014
˜˚˛˝

$
173,015



214,530


111,832

Total
$
499,377


In addition, included in 
Cash and due
 
from banks
 at December 31, 
2014 and 2013 were $6.2 billion and $8.8 billion, respectively, of cash 
segregated under federal and other brokerage regulations or deposited with 
clearing organizations.
Collateral
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the approximate fair value of collateral 
received by the Company that may be resold or repledged, excluding 
the impact of allowable netting, was $346.7 billion and $308.3 billion, 
respectively. This collateral was received in connection with resale 
agreements, securities borrowings and loans, derivative transactions and 
margined broker loans.
At December 31, 2014 and 2013, a substantial portion of the collateral 
received by the Company had been sold or repledged in connection with 
repurchase agreements, securities sold, not yet purchased, securities 
borrowings and loans, pledges to clearing organizations, segregation 
requirements under securities laws and regulations, derivative transactions 
and bank loans.
In addition, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company had pledged 
$376 billion and $397 billion, respectively, of collateral that may not be sold 
or repledged by the secured parties.
Lease Commitments
Rental expense (principally for offices and computer equipment) was 
$1.4 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 
2014, 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable leases, net of 
sublease income, are as follows:
In millions of dollars













Total


Guarantees
Citi provides a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to its customers 
to enhance their credit standing and enable them to complete a wide variety 
of business transactions. For certain contracts meeting the definition of a 
guarantee, the guarantor must recognize, at inception, a liability for the fair 
value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.
In addition, the guarantor must disclose the maximum potential amount 
of future payments that the guarantor could be required to make under 
the guarantee, if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The 
determination of the maximum potential future payments is based on 
the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration of possible 
recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or pledged. As 
such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated 
losses, if any, on these guarantees.
284
Maximum potential amount of future payments
In billions of dollars at December 31, 2013 except carrying value in millions
Expire within 
1 year
Expire after 
1 year
Total amount 
outstanding
Carrying value 
(in
 
millions of dollars)






˛˚˚⁄˜













‹
˚⁄˝
˚⁄˝
˜˜



‹

‹



‹

‹

‹



Total








‡˛…





Financial standby letters of credit
Citi issues standby letters of credit which substitute its own credit for that of 
the borrower. If a letter of credit is drawn down, the borrower is obligated 
to repay Citi. Standby letters of credit protect a third party from defaults 
on contractual obligations. Financial standby letters of credit include: 
(i) guarantees of payment of insurance premiums and reinsurance risks 
that support industrial revenue bond underwriting; (ii) settlement of 
payment obligations to clearing houses, including futures and over-the-
counter derivatives clearing (see further discussion below); (iii) support 
options and purchases of securities in lieu of escrow deposit accounts; and 
(iv) letters of credit that backstop loans, credit facilities, promissory notes and 
trade acceptances.
Performance guarantees
Performance guarantees and letters of credit are issued to guarantee a 
customer™s tender bid on a construction or systems-installation project or to 
guarantee completion of such projects in accordance with contract terms. 
They are also issued to support a customer™s obligation to supply specified 
products, commodities, or maintenance or warranty services to a third party.
Derivative instruments considered to be guarantees
Derivatives are financial instruments whose cash flows are based on a 
notional amount and an underlying instrument, reference credit or index, 
where there is little or no initial investment, and whose terms require or 
permit net settlement. For a discussion of Citi™s derivatives activities, see 
Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Derivative instruments considered to be guarantees include only those 
instruments that require Citi to make payments to the counterparty based on 
changes in an underlying instrument that is related to an asset, a liability or 
an equity security held by the guaranteed party. More specifically, derivative 
instruments considered to be guarantees include certain over-the-counter 
written put options where the counterparty is not a bank, hedge fund or 
broker-dealer (such counterparties are considered to be dealers in these 
markets and may, therefore, not hold the underlying instruments). Credit 
derivatives sold by Citi are excluded from the tables above as they are 
disclosed separately in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 
instances where Citi™s maximum potential future payment is unlimited, the 
notional amount of the contract is disclosed.
Loans sold with recourse
Loans sold with recourse represent Citi™s obligations to reimburse the buyers 
for loan losses under certain circumstances. Recourse refers to the clause 
in a sales agreement under which a seller/lender will fully reimburse the 
buyer/investor for any losses resulting from the purchased loans. This may be 
accomplished by the seller taking back any loans that become delinquent.
In addition to the amounts shown in the tables above, Citi has recorded 
a repurchase reserve for its potential repurchases or make-whole liability 
regarding residential mortgage representation and warranty claims related 
to its whole loan sales to the U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
(GSEs) and, to a lesser extent, private investors. The repurchase reserve was 
approximately $224 million and $341 million at December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013, respectively, and these amounts are included in 
Other 
liabilities
 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The following tables present information about Citi™s guarantees at 
December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:
Maximum potential amount of future payments
In billions of dollars at December 31, 2014 except carrying value in millions
Expire within 
1 year
Expire after 
1 year
Total amount 
outstanding
Carrying value 
(In millions of dollars)

$
25.4
$
73.0
$
98.4
$
242

7.1
4.8
11.9
29

12.5
79.2
91.7
2,806

Š
0.2
0.2
15


127.5
Š
127.5
Š


86.0
Š
86.0
Š

Š
48.9
48.9
54
Total
$
258.5
$
206.1
$
464.6
$
3,146
285
Credit card merchant processing
Credit card merchant processing guarantees represent the Company™s indirect 
obligations in connection with: (i) providing transaction processing services 
to various merchants with respect to its private-label cards; and (ii) potential 
liability for bank card transaction processing services. The nature of the 
liability in either case arises as a result of a billing dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder™s 
favor. The merchant is liable to refund the amount to the cardholder. In 
general, if the credit card processing company is unable to collect this 
amount from the merchant, the credit card processing company bears the 
loss for the amount of the credit or refund paid to the cardholder.
With regard to (i) above, Citi has the primary contingent liability with 
respect to its portfolio of private-label merchants. The risk of loss is mitigated 
as the cash flows between Citi and the merchant are settled on a net basis and 
Citi has the right to offset any payments with cash flows otherwise due to the 
merchant. To further mitigate this risk, Citi may delay settlement, require a 
merchant to make an escrow deposit, include event triggers to provide Citi 
with more financial and operational control in the event of the financial 
deterioration of the merchant or require various credit enhancements 
(including letters of credit and bank guarantees). In the unlikely event 
that a private-label merchant is unable to deliver products, services or a 
refund to its private-label cardholders, Citi is contingently liable to credit or 
refund cardholders.
With regard to (ii) above, Citi has a potential liability for bank card 
transactions where Citi provides the transaction processing services as well 
as those where a third party provides the services and Citi acts as a secondary 
guarantor, should that processor fail to perform.
Citi™s maximum potential contingent liability related to both bank card 
and private-label merchant processing services is estimated to be the total 
volume of credit card transactions that meet the requirements to be valid 
charge-back transactions at any given time. At December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013, this maximum potential exposure was estimated to be 
$86 billion for both periods.
However, Citi believes that the maximum exposure is not representative 
of the actual potential loss exposure based on its historical experience. 
This contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most products and services 
are delivered when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are 
returned to merchants. Citi assesses the probability and amount of its 
contingent liability related to merchant processing based on the financial 
strength of the primary guarantor, the extent and nature of unresolved 
charge-backs and its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2014 
and December 31, 2013, the losses incurred and the carrying amounts 
of Citi™s contingent obligations related to merchant processing activities 
were
 
immaterial.
Custody indemnifications
Custody indemnifications are issued to guarantee that custody clients will 
be made whole in the event that a third-party subcustodian or depository 
institution fails to safeguard clients™ assets.
Other guarantees and indemnifications
Credit Card Protection Programs
Citi, through its credit card businesses, provides various cardholder protection 
programs on several of its card products, including programs that provide 
insurance coverage for rental cars, coverage for certain losses associated with 
purchased products, price protection for certain purchases and protection 
for lost luggage. These guarantees are not included in the table, since the 
total outstanding amount of the guarantees and Citi™s maximum exposure 
to loss cannot be quantified. The protection is limited to certain types of 
purchases and losses, and it is not possible to quantify the purchases that 
would qualify for these benefits at any given time. Citi assesses the probability 
and amount of its potential liability related to these programs based on the 
extent and nature of its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013, the actual and estimated losses incurred and the carrying 
value of Citi™s obligations related to these programs were immaterial.
Other Representation and Warranty Indemnifications
In the normal course of business, Citi provides standard representations 
and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection with numerous 
transactions and also provides indemnifications, including indemnifications 
that protect the counterparties to the contracts in the event that additional 
taxes are owed due either to a change in the tax law or an adverse 
interpretation of the tax law. Counterparties to these transactions provide Citi 
with comparable indemnifications. While such representations, warranties 
and indemnifications are essential components of many contractual 
relationships, they do not represent the underlying business purpose for the 
transactions. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual 
terms related to Citi™s own performance under the terms of a contract and 
are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment 
that the risk of loss is remote. Often these clauses are intended to ensure 
that terms of a contract are met at inception. No compensation is received 
for these standard representations and warranties, and it is not possible to 
determine their fair value because they rarely, if ever, result in a payment. 
In many cases, there are no stated or notional amounts included in the 
indemnification clauses, and the contingencies potentially triggering the 
obligation to indemnify have not occurred and are not expected to occur. As a 
result, these indemnifications are not included in the tables above.
Securities lending indemnifications
Owners of securities frequently lend those securities for a fee to other parties 
who may sell them short or deliver them to another party to satisfy some 
other obligation. Banks may administer such securities lending programs for 
their clients. Securities lending indemnifications are issued by the bank to 
guarantee that a securities lending customer will be made whole in the event 
that the security borrower does not return the security subject to the lending 
agreement and collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of 
the
 
security.
286Value-Transfer NetworksCiti is a member of, or shareholder in, hundreds of value-transfer networks 
(VTNs) (payment, clearing and settlement systems as well as exchanges) 
around the world. As a condition of membership, many of these VTNs require 
that members stand ready to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by 
the organization due to another member™s default on its obligations. Citi™s 
potential obligations may be limited to its membership interests in the VTNs, 
contributions to the VTN™s funds, or, in limited cases, the obligation may 
be unlimited. The maximum exposure cannot be estimated as this would 
require an assessment of future claims that have not yet occurred. Citi 
believes the risk of loss is remote given historical experience with the VTNs. 
Accordingly, Citi™s participation in VTNs is not reported in the guarantees 
tables above, and there are no amounts reflected on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet as of December 31, 2014 or December 31, 2013 for potential obligations 

that could arise from Citi™s involvement with VTN associations.Long-Term Care Insurance IndemnificationIn the sale of an insurance subsidiary, the Company provided an 
indemnification to an insurance company for policyholder claims and 
other liabilities relating to a book of long-term care (LTC) business (for the 
entire term of the LTC policies) that is fully reinsured by another insurance 
company. The reinsurer has funded two trusts with securities whose fair 
value (approximately $6.2 billion at December 31, 2014, compared to 
$5.4 billion at December 31, 2013) is designed to cover the insurance 
company™s statutory liabilities for the LTC policies. The assets in these trusts 
are evaluated and adjusted periodically to ensure that the fair value of the 
assets continues to cover the estimated statutory liabilities related to the LTC 
policies, as those statutory liabilities change over time. If the reinsurer fails to perform under the reinsurance agreement for any reason, including insolvency, and the assets in the two trusts are insufficient 

or unavailable to the ceding insurance company, then Citi must indemnify 

the ceding insurance company for any losses actually incurred in connection 
with the LTC policies. Since both events would have to occur before Citi 

would become responsible for any payment to the ceding insurance company 
pursuant to its indemnification obligation, and the likelihood of such events 
occurring is currently not probable, there is no liability reflected in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 
related to this indemnification. Citi continues to closely monitor its potential 
exposure under this indemnification obligation.Carrying ValueŠGuarantees and IndemnificationsAt December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the total carrying amounts 
of the liabilities related to the guarantees and indemnifications included in 
the tables above amounted to approximately $3.1 billion and $1.3 billion, 
respectively. The carrying value of financial and performance guarantees is 
included in Other liabilities. For loans sold with recourse, the carrying value 
of the liability is included in Other liabilities.Futures and over-the-counter derivatives clearing
Citi provides clearing services for clients executing exchange-traded 
futures and over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives contracts with central 
counterparties (CCPs). Based on all relevant facts and circumstances, 
Citi has concluded that it acts as an agent for accounting purposes in its 
role as clearing member for these client transactions. As such, Citi does 
not reflect the underlying exchange-traded futures or OTC derivatives 
contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 23 for a 
discussion of Citi™s derivatives activities that are reflected in its Consolidated 
Financial Statements.As a clearing member, Citi collects and remits cash and securities 
collateral (margin) between its clients and the respective CCP. There are 

two types of margin: initial margin and variation margin. Where Citi 
obtains benefits from or controls cash initial margin (e.g., retains an 
interest spread), cash initial margin collected from clients and remitted to 
the CCP is reflected within Brokerage Payables (payables to customers) 
and Brokerage Receivables (receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing 
organizations), respectively. However, for OTC derivatives contracts where 

Citi has contractually agreed with the client that (a) Citi will pass through 
to the client all interest paid by the CCP on cash initial margin; (b) Citi 
will not utilize its right as clearing member to transform cash margin into 
other assets; and (c) Citi does not guarantee and is not liable to the client for 
the performance of the CCP, cash initial margin collected from clients and 

remitted to the CCP is not reflected on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The 

total amount of cash initial margin collected and remitted in this manner 
was approximately $3.2 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 
December 31, 2013, respectively.
Variation margin due from clients to the respective CCP, or from the CCP 
to clients, reflects changes in the value of the client™s derivative contracts for 

each trading day. As a clearing member, Citi is exposed to the risk of non-

performance by clients (e.g., failure of a client to post variation margin to 
the CCP for negative changes in the value of the client™s derivative contracts). 

In the event of non-performance by a client, Citi would move to close out 
the client™s positions. The CCP would typically utilize initial margin posted 

by the client and held by the CCP, with any remaining shortfalls required to 

be paid by Citi as clearing member. Citi generally holds incremental cash or 

securities margin posted by the client, which would typically be expected to be 
sufficient to mitigate Citi™s credit risk in the event the client fails to
 perform.As required by ASC 860-30-25-5, securities collateral posted by clients is not recognized on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
287CollateralCash collateral available to Citi to reimburse losses realized under these 
guarantees and indemnifications amounted to $63 billion and $52 billion 
at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. Securities and 
other marketable assets held as collateral amounted to $70 billion and 
$39 billion at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. The 
majority of collateral is held to reimburse losses realized under securities 
lending indemnifications. Additionally, letters of credit in favor of Citi held 
as collateral amounted to $4.0 billion and $5.3 billion at December 31, 2014 
and December 31, 2013, respectively. Other property may also be available to 
Citi to cover losses under certain guarantees and indemnifications; however, 
the value of such property has not been determined.Performance risk
Citi evaluates the performance risk of its guarantees based on the assigned 
referenced counterparty internal or external ratings. Where external ratings 
are used, investment-grade ratings are considered to be Baa/BBB and above, 
while anything below is considered non-investment grade. Citi™s internal 
ratings are in line with the related external rating system. On certain 
underlying referenced assets or entities, ratings are not available. Such 
referenced assets are included in the ﬁnot ratedﬂ category. The maximum 
potential amount of the future payments related to the outstanding 
guarantees is determined to be the notional amount of these contracts, which 
is the par amount of the assets guaranteed.Presented in the tables below are the maximum potential amounts of future payments that are classified based upon internal and external credit 
ratings as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013. As previously 
mentioned, the determination of the maximum potential future payments 
is based on the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration 
of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or 
pledged. As such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the 
anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees.
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2014
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal

$73.0$15.9$9.5$98.4
7.33.90.711.9
ŠŠ91.791.7ŠŠ0.20.2
ŠŠ127.5127.5ŠŠ86.086.0
48.80.1Š48.9Total
$129.1$19.9$315.6$464.6Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal

˛˚˚⁄˜

‹‹‹‹˚⁄˝˚⁄˝
‹‹‹‹
˚⁄˛‹Total
288Credit Commitments and Lines of CreditThe table below summarizes Citigroup™s credit commitments as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:In millions of dollarsU.S.Outside of U.S.December 31,2014˜˚˛˝$1,369$5,265$6,634
3,2432,4315,674
13,5352,56316,098
8,0451,1979,242492,391119,658612,049154,92388,757243,6801,5844,0915,675Total
$675,090$223,962$899,052The majority of unused commitments are contingent upon customers™ maintaining specific credit standards. Commercial commitments generally have floating interest rates and fixed expiration dates and may require 
payment of fees. Such fees (net of certain direct costs) are deferred and, upon 
exercise of the commitment, amortized over the life of the loan or, if exercise 

is deemed remote, amortized over the commitment period.Commercial and similar letters of creditA commercial letter of credit is an instrument by which Citigroup substitutes 
its credit for that of a customer to enable the customer to finance the 
purchase of goods or to incur other commitments. Citigroup issues a letter 
on behalf of its client to a supplier and agrees to pay the supplier upon 
presentation of documentary evidence that the supplier has performed in 
accordance with the terms of the letter of credit. When a letter of credit is 
drawn, the customer is then required to reimburse Citigroup.One- to four-family residential mortgagesA one- to four-family residential mortgage commitment is a written 
confirmation from Citigroup to a seller of a property that the bank will 
advance the specified sums enabling the buyer to complete the purchase.Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential properties
Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential 
properties are essentially home equity lines of credit. A home equity line 
of credit is a loan secured by a primary residence or second home to the 
extent of the excess of fair market value over the debt outstanding for the 
first mortgage.Commercial real estate, construction and land developmentCommercial real estate, construction and land development include 
unused portions of commitments to extend credit for the purpose of 
financing commercial and multifamily residential properties as well as land 
development projects.Both secured-by-real-estate and unsecured commitments are included in this line, as well as undistributed loan proceeds, where there is an obligation 
to advance for construction progress payments. However, this line only 

includes those extensions of credit that, once funded, will be classified as 
Total loans, net
 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Credit card linesCitigroup provides credit to customers by issuing credit cards. The credit card 
lines are cancellable by providing notice to the cardholder or without such 
notice as permitted by local law.Commercial and other consumer loan commitmentsCommercial and other consumer loan commitments include overdraft and 
liquidity facilities, as well as commercial commitments to make or purchase 
loans, to purchase third-party receivables, to provide note issuance or 
revolving underwriting facilities and to invest in the form of equity. Amounts 
include $53 billion and $58 billion with an original maturity of less than one 
year at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively. In addition, included in this line item are highly leveraged financing commitments, which are agreements that provide funding to a borrower with 
higher levels of debt (measured by the ratio of debt capital to equity capital 
of the borrower) than is generally considered normal for other companies. 
This type of financing is commonly employed in corporate acquisitions, 
management buy-outs and similar transactions.Other commitments and contingenciesOther commitments and contingencies include committed or unsettled 
regular-way reverse repurchase agreements and all other transactions related 
to commitments and contingencies not reported on the lines above.28928. CONTINGENCIESAccounting and Disclosure FrameworkASC 450 governs the disclosure and recognition of loss contingencies, including potential losses from litigation and regulatory matters. ASC 450 
defines a ﬁloss contingencyﬂ as ﬁan existing condition, situation, or set of 
circumstances involving uncertainty as to possible loss to an entity that 
will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to 
occur.ﬂ It imposes different requirements for the recognition and disclosure 
of loss contingencies based on the likelihood of occurrence of the contingent 
future event or events. It distinguishes among degrees of likelihood using the 
following three terms: ﬁprobable,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe future event or events 
are likely to occurﬂ; ﬁremote,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe chance of the future event 
or events occurring is slightﬂ; and ﬁreasonably possible,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe 
chance of the future event or events occurring is more than remote but less 
than likely.ﬂ These three terms are used below as defined in ASC 450.Accruals. ASC 450 requires accrual for a loss contingency when it is ﬁprobable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact 
of lossﬂ and ﬁthe amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.ﬂ In 
accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup establishes accruals for contingencies, 
including the litigation and regulatory matters disclosed herein, when 
Citigroup believes it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the 
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable 
estimate of the loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum amount 
of the range is accrued, unless some higher amount within the range is a 
better estimate than any other amount within the range. Once established, 
accruals are adjusted from time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional 
information. The amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those 
matters may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued for 
those matters.Disclosure. ASC 450 requires disclosure of a loss contingency if ﬁthere is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may have 
been incurredﬂ and there is no accrual for the loss because the conditions 
described above are not met or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the 
amount accrued. In accordance with ASC 450, if Citigroup has not accrued 
for a matter because Citigroup believes that a loss is reasonably possible but 
not probable, or that a loss is probable but not reasonably estimable, and 
the matter thus does not meet the criteria for accrual, and the reasonably 
possible loss is material, it discloses the loss contingency. In addition, 

Citigroup discloses matters for which it has accrued if it believes a reasonably 
possible exposure to material loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. 
In accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup™s disclosure includes an estimate of 

the reasonably possible loss or range of loss for those matters as to which an 
estimate can be made. ASC 450 does not require disclosure of an estimate 
of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss where an estimate cannot 
be made. Neither accrual nor disclosure is required for losses that are 
deemed remote.Litigation and Regulatory ContingenciesOverview. In addition to the matters described below, in the ordinary 
course of business, Citigroup, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and current 
and former officers, directors and employees (for purposes of this section, 
sometimes collectively referred to as Citigroup and Related Parties) routinely 
are named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and 
proceedings. Certain of these actions and proceedings assert claims or seek 
relief in connection with alleged violations of consumer protection, fair 
lending, securities, banking, antifraud, antitrust, anti-money laundering, 
employment and other statutory and common laws. Certain of these actual 
or threatened legal actions and proceedings include claims for substantial 
or indeterminate compensatory or punitive damages, or for injunctive relief, 
and in some instances seek recovery on a class-wide basis.In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup and Related Parties also are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal), certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, 
fines, penalties, restitution, disgorgement, injunctions or other relief. In 
addition, certain affiliates and subsidiaries of Citigroup are banks, registered 
broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, investment advisers or 

other regulated entities and, in those capacities, are subject to regulation 
by various U.S., state and foreign securities, banking, commodity futures, 
consumer protection and other regulators. In connection with formal and 
informal inquiries by these regulators, Citigroup and such affiliates and 
subsidiaries receive numerous requests, subpoenas and orders seeking 
documents, testimony and other information in connection with various 
aspects of their regulated activities. From time to time Citigroup and Related 
Parties also receive grand jury subpoenas and other requests for information 
or assistance, formal or informal, from federal or state law enforcement 
agencies including, among others, various United States Attorneys™ Offices, 
the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section and other divisions of 
the Department of Justice, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of 
the United States Department of the Treasury, and the Federal Bureau of 

Investigation relating to Citigroup and its customers.Because of the global scope of Citigroup™s operations, and its presence 
in countries around the world, Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to 
litigation and governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal) in multiple jurisdictions with legal and regulatory regimes that 
may differ substantially, and present substantially different risks, from those 

Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to in the United States. In some 
instances Citigroup and Related Parties may be involved in proceedings 
involving the same subject matter in multiple jurisdictions, which may result 
in overlapping, cumulative or inconsistent outcomes.Citigroup seeks to resolve all litigation and regulatory matters in the manner management believes is in the best interests of Citigroup and its 
shareholders, and contests liability, allegations of wrongdoing and, where 

applicable, the amount of damages or scope of any penalties or other relief 
sought as appropriate in each pending matter.
290Inherent Uncertainty of the Matters Disclosed. Certain of the matters disclosed below involve claims for substantial or indeterminate damages. The claims asserted in these matters typically are broad, often spanning a 
multi-year period and sometimes a wide range of business activities, and 
the plaintiffs™ or claimants™ alleged damages frequently are not quantified 
or factually supported in the complaint or statement of claim. Other matters 
relate to regulatory investigations or proceedings, as to which there may 
be no objective basis for quantifying the range of potential fine, penalty, or 

other remedy. As a result, Citigroup is often unable to estimate the loss in 

such matters, even if it believes that a loss is probable or reasonably possible, 
until developments in the case or investigation have yielded additional 
information sufficient to support a quantitative assessment of the range 
of reasonably possible loss. Such developments may include, among other 
things, discovery from adverse parties or third parties, rulings by the court 
on key issues, analysis by retained experts, and engagement in settlement 
negotiations. Depending on a range of factors, such as the complexity of 
the facts, the novelty of the legal theories, the pace of discovery, the court™s 

scheduling order, the timing of court decisions, and the adverse party™s 

willingness to negotiate in good faith toward a resolution, it may be months 
or years after the filing of a case or commencement of an investigation before 
an estimate of the range of reasonably possible loss can be made.Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made. For some of the matters disclosed below, Citigroup is currently able to estimate a reasonably possible 

loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued (if any). For some of the 
matters included within this estimation, an accrual has been made because 
a loss is believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable, but an 
exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. In these cases, the 
estimate reflects the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of the accrued 
amount. For other matters included within this estimation, no accrual has 
been made because a loss, although estimable, is believed to be reasonably 
possible, but not probable; in these cases the estimate reflects the reasonably 
possible loss or range of loss. As of December 31, 2014, Citigroup estimates 
that the reasonably possible unaccrued loss in future periods for these 
matters ranges up to approximately $4 billion in the aggregate.These estimates are based on currently available information. As available information changes, the matters for which Citigroup is able to estimate will 
change, and the estimates themselves will change. In addition, while many 
estimates presented in financial statements and other financial disclosures 
involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, 

estimates of the range of reasonably possible loss arising from litigation and 
regulatory proceedings are subject to particular uncertainties. For example, 
at the time of making an estimate, (i) Citigroup may have only preliminary, 

incomplete, or inaccurate information about the facts underlying the claim; 
(ii) its assumptions about the future rulings of the court or other tribunal 
on significant issues, or the behavior and incentives of adverse parties or 
regulators, may prove to be wrong; and (iii) the outcomes it is attempting to 
predict are often not amenable to the use of statistical or other quantitative 
analytical tools. In addition, from time to time an outcome may occur that 
Citigroup had not accounted for in its estimate because it had deemed such 
an outcome to be remote. For all these reasons, the amount of loss in excess 
of accruals ultimately incurred for the matters as to which an estimate has 
been made could be substantially higher or lower than the range of loss 
included in the estimate.Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made. For other matters disclosed below, Citigroup is not currently able to estimate the reasonably 

possible loss or range of loss. Many of these matters remain in very 
preliminary stages (even in some cases where a substantial period of time has 

passed since the commencement of the matter), with few or no substantive 
legal decisions by the court or tribunal defining the scope of the claims, the 
class (if any), or the potentially available damages, and fact discovery is still 
in progress or has not yet begun. In many of these matters, Citigroup has 
not yet answered the complaint or statement of claim or asserted its defenses, 
nor has it engaged in any negotiations with the adverse party (whether 
a regulator or a private party). For all these reasons, Citigroup cannot at 
this time estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, for 

these matters.Opinion of Management as to Eventual Outcome. Subject to the foregoing, it is the opinion of Citigroup™s management, based on current 

knowledge and after taking into account its current legal accruals, that the 
eventual outcome of all matters described in this Note would not be likely 
to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition 
of Citigroup. Nonetheless, given the substantial or indeterminate amounts 
sought in certain of these matters, and the inherent unpredictability of such 
matters, an adverse outcome in certain of these matters could, from time 
to time, have a material adverse effect on Citigroup™s consolidated results of 

operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.Commodities Financing ContractsBeginning in May 2014, Citigroup became aware of reports of potential fraud 
relating to the financing of physical metal stored at the Qingdao and Penglai 
ports in China. Citigroup has contracts with a counterparty in relation to 
Citigroup™s providing financing collateralized by physical metal stored at 
these ports, with the agreements providing that the counterparty would 
repurchase the inventory at a specified date in the future (typically three to 
six months). Pursuant to the agreements, the counterparty is responsible for 
providing clean title to the inventory, insuring it, and attesting that there are 
no third party encumbrances. The counterparty is a non-Chinese subsidiary 
of a large multinational corporation, and the counterparty™s obligations 
under the contracts are guaranteed by the parent company.On July 22, 2014, Citigroup commenced proceedings in the Commercial Court in London to enforce its rights against the counterparty under the 
relevant agreements in relation to approximately $285 million in financing. 
That counterparty and a Chinese warehouse provider previously brought 
actions in the English courts to establish the parties™ rights and obligations 
under these agreements. In early December 2014, the English court 
conducted a preliminary trial concerning, among other issues, the question 
of whether Citigroup appropriately accelerated its counterparty™s obligation 

to repay Citigroup under the applicable agreements given these facts and 
circumstances. The court has not yet issued a ruling following trial.The financings at issue are carried at fair value. As with any position carried at fair value, Citigroup adjusts the positions and records a gain or loss 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income in accordance with GAAP.
291Credit Crisis-Related Litigation and Other MattersCitigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous legal actions and other proceedings asserting claims for damages and related 
relief for losses arising from the global financial credit crisis that began 
in 2007. Such matters include, among other types of proceedings, claims 
asserted by: (i) individual investors and purported classes of investors in 
securities issued by Citigroup alleging violations of the federal securities laws, 
foreign laws, state securities and fraud law, and the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act (ERISA); and (ii) investors in securities and other 
investments underwritten, issued or marketed by Citigroup, including 
securities issued by other public companies, collateralized debt obligations 
(CDOs), mortgage-backed securities (MBS), auction rate securities (ARS), 
investment funds, and other structured or leveraged instruments, which have 
suffered losses as a result of the credit crisis.In addition to these matters, Citigroup continues to cooperate fully in response to subpoenas and requests for information from the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC), FINRA, state attorneys general, the 
Department of Justice and subdivisions thereof, the Office of the Special 
Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, bank regulators, 

and other government agencies and authorities, in connection with various 
formal and informal (and, in many instances, industry-wide) inquiries 
concerning Citigroup™s mortgage-related conduct and business activities, as 

well as other business activities affected by the credit crisis. These business 
activities include, but are not limited to, Citigroup™s sponsorship, packaging, 

issuance, marketing, trading, servicing and underwriting of CDOs and MBS, 
its origination, sale or other transfer, servicing, and foreclosure of residential 

mortgages, and its origination, servicing, and securitization of auto loans.Mortgage-Related Litigation and Other MattersSecurities Actions: Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as 
defendants in a variety of putative class actions and individual actions 
arising out of Citigroup™s exposure to CDOs and other assets that declined in 
value during the financial crisis. Many of these matters have been dismissed 
or settled. These actions assert a wide range of claims, including claims 
under the federal securities laws, foreign securities laws, ERISA, and state 
law. Additional information concerning certain of these actions is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 10 Civ. 9646 (S.D.N.Y.) 
(Stein, J.), 11 Civ. 7672 (S.D.N.Y.) (Koeltl, J.), 12 Civ. 6653 (S.D.N.Y.) 
(Stein, J.), 13-4488, 13-4504, 14-2545, and 14-3014 (2d Cir.).Beginning in November 2007, certain Citigroup affiliates also have been named as defendants arising out of their activities as underwriters 
of securities in actions brought by investors in securities issued by public 
companies adversely affected by the credit crisis. Many of these matters 
have been dismissed or settled. As a general matter, issuers indemnify 

underwriters in connection with such claims, but in certain of these matters 
Citigroup affiliates are not being indemnified or may in the future cease to be 
indemnified because of the financial condition of the issuer.
Regulatory Actions: On July 14, 2014, Citigroup reached a settlement of the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group™s investigation. 

The settlement resolved actual and potential civil claims by the Department of Justice, several state attorneys general, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) relating to MBS and CDOs issued, structured, or 
underwritten by Citigroup between 2003 and 2008. It included a $4.0 billion 
civil monetary payment to the Department of Justice, $500 million in 
payments to certain state attorneys general and the FDIC, and $2.5 billion in 
consumer relief (to be provided by the end of 2018). The consumer relief will 
be in the form of financing provided for the construction and preservation of 
affordable multifamily rental housing, principal reduction and forbearance 
for residential loans, as well as other direct consumer benefits from various 
relief programs.Mortgage-Backed Securities and CDO Investor Actions: Beginning in July 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in 
complaints filed by purchasers of MBS and CDOs sold or underwritten by 
Citigroup. The complaints generally assert that defendants made material 
misrepresentations and omissions about the credit quality of the assets 
underlying the securities or the manner in which those assets were selected, 
and typically assert claims under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, 
state blue sky laws, and/or common-law misrepresentation-based causes 
of action.The majority of these matters have been resolved through settlement or otherwise. As of December 31, 2014, the aggregate original purchase amount 
of the purchases at issue in the pending litigations was approximately 
$4.9 billion, and the aggregate original purchase amount of the purchases 
covered by tolling agreements with investors threatening litigation was 
approximately $1.4 billion. Additional information concerning certain 
of these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
numbers 08 Civ. 8781 (S.D.N.Y.) (Failla, J.), 654464/2013 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) 

(Friedman, J.), 653990/2013 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Ramos, J.), and CL 14-399 

(Vir. Cir. Ct.) (Hughes, J.).
Mortgage-Backed Security Repurchase Claims: Various parties to 
MBS securitizations and other interested parties have asserted that certain 
Citigroup affiliates breached representations and warranties made in 
connection with mortgage loans sold into securitization trusts (private-label 
securitizations). Typically, these claims are based on allegations that 

securitized mortgages were not underwritten in accordance with the 
applicable underwriting standards. Citigroup also has received numerous 
inquiries, demands for loan files, and requests to toll (extend) the applicable 
statutes of limitation for representation and warranty claims relating to its 
private-label securitizations. These inquiries, demands and requests have 
been made by trustees of securitization trusts and others.On April 7, 2014, Citigroup entered into an agreement with 18 institutional investors represented by Gibbs & Bruns LLP regarding 
the resolution of representation and warranty repurchase claims related 
to certain legacy securitizations. Pursuant to the agreement, Citigroup 
made a binding offer to the trustees of 68 Citigroup-sponsored mortgage 
securitization trusts to pay $1.125 billion to the trusts to resolve these claims, 
plus certain fees and expenses. The 68 trusts covered by the agreement 
represent all of the trusts established by Citigroup™s legacy 
Securities and Banking business during 2005-2008 for which Citigroup affiliates made 
representations and warranties to the trusts.292On December 19, 2014, Citigroup, the 18 institutional investors, and the trustees for these securitizations executed a revised settlement agreement resolving a substantial majority of the claims contemplated by the 
April 7, 2014 offer of settlement. On December 31, 2014, the trustees amended 
the settlement agreement to accept the offer as to certain additional claims. 
As of December 31, 2014, the trustees have accepted the settlement for 64 
trusts in whole, and the trustees have accepted in part and excluded in part 
four trusts from the settlement. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement 
agreement, the trustees™ acceptance is subject to a judicial approval 
proceeding, which was initiated by the trustees on December 21, 2014. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket number 653902/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Friedman, J.).
To date, trustees have filed six actions against Citigroup seeking to 
enforce certain of these contractual repurchase claims in connection with 
four private-label securitizations. Each of the six actions is in the early 
stages of proceedings. In the aggregate, plaintiffs are asserting repurchase 
claims as to approximately 6,700 loans that were securitized into these 
four securitizations, as well as any other loans that are later found to have 
breached representations and warranties. Additional information concerning 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
13 Civ. 2843 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), 13 Civ. 6989 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), 

653816/2013 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Kornreich, J.), and 653930/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.).
Mortgage-Backed Securities Trustee Actions. 
On June 18, 2014, a group of investors in 48 MBS trusts for which Citibank, N.A. served or currently 
serves as trustee filed a complaint in New York State Supreme Court in 

BLACKROCK ALLOCATION TARGET SHARES: SERIES S. PORTFOLIO, ET 

AL. v. CITIBANK, N.A. The complaint, like those filed against other MBS 

trustees, alleges that Citibank, N.A. failed to pursue contractual remedies 
against loan originators, securitization sponsors and servicers. This action 
was withdrawn without prejudice, effective December 17, 2014. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 651868/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Ramos, J.). On 

November 24, 2014, largely the same group of investors filed an action in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, captioned 

FIXED INCOME SHARES: SERIES M ET AL. V. CITIBANK, N.A., alleging 

similar claims relating to 27 MBS trusts sponsored by UBS, Lehman Brothers, 
American Home Mortgage, Goldman Sachs, Country Place, PHH Mortgage, 
Wachovia and Washington Mutual. Additional information concerning 

this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 
14-cv-9373 (S.D.N.Y.) (Furman, J.).
On June 27, 2014, a separate group of MBS investors filed a summons with notice in FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF TOPEKA, ET AL. v. CITIBANK, 

N.A. The summons alleges that Citibank, N.A., as trustee for an unspecified 
number of MBS, failed to pursue remedies on behalf of the trusts. This 
action was withdrawn without prejudice on November 10, 2014. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 651973/2014 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.).
Counterparty and Investor Actions
In 2010, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) commenced an arbitration 
(ADIA I) against Citigroup and Related Parties before the International 
Center for Dispute Resolution (ICDR), alleging statutory and common 
law claims in connection with its $7.5 billion investment in Citigroup in 
December 2007. ADIA sought rescission of the investment agreement or, in 
the alternative, more than $4 billion in damages. Following a hearing in 
May 2011 and post-hearing proceedings, on October 14, 2011, the arbitration 
panel issued a final award and statement of reasons finding in favor of 
Citigroup on all claims asserted by ADIA. On March 4, 2013, the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York denied ADIA™s 
petition to vacate the arbitration award and granted Citigroup™s cross-petition 
to confirm. ADIA appealed and, on February 19, 2014, the United States 
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the judgment. ADIA filed a 
petition for review in the United States Supreme Court, which was denied on 
October 6, 2014. Additional information concerning this action is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 12 Civ. 283 (S.D.N.Y.) 
(Daniels, J.),13-1068-cv (2d Cir.), and 13-1500 (U.S.).On August 20, 2013, ADIA commenced a second arbitration (ADIA II) against Citigroup before the ICDR, alleging common law claims arising out 
of the same investment at issue in ADIA I. On August 28, 2013, Citigroup 
filed a complaint against ADIA in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York seeking to enjoin ADIA II on the ground that it 

is barred by the court™s judgment confirming the arbitral award in ADIA I. On 

September 23, 2013, ADIA filed motions to dismiss Citigroup™s complaint and 

to compel arbitration. On November 25, 2013, the court denied Citigroup™s 

motion for a preliminary injunction and granted ADIA™s motions to dismiss 

and to compel arbitration. On December 23, 2013, Citigroup appealed 
that ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. On 
January 14, 2015, the Second Circuit affirmed the district court™s ruling. 

Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket numbers 13 Civ. 6073 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.) and 

13-4825 (2d Cir.).
Alternative Investment Fund-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Since mid-2008, the SEC has been investigating the management and 
marketing of the ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds, alternative investment 
funds managed and marketed by certain Citigroup affiliates that suffered 
substantial losses during the credit crisis. In addition to the SEC inquiry, 
on June 11, 2012, the New York Attorney General served a subpoena on a 
Citigroup affiliate seeking documents and information concerning certain 
of these funds, and, on August 1, 2012, the Massachusetts Attorney General 
served a Civil Investigative Demand on a Citigroup affiliate seeking similar 
documents and information. Citigroup is cooperating fully with these 
inquiries. Citigroup has entered into tolling agreements with the SEC 
and the New York Attorney General concerning certain claims related to 
the investigations.293Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed in October 2012 on behalf of investors in CSO Ltd., CSO US Ltd., and Corporate Special Opportunities Ltd., whose 
investments were managed indirectly by a Citigroup affiliate. Plaintiffs 
assert a variety of state common law claims, alleging that they and other 
investors were misled into investing in the funds and, later, not redeeming 

their investments. The complaint seeks to recover more than $400 million on 
behalf of a putative class of investors. Additional information concerning this 
action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 12-cv-
7717 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.).
Auction Rate Securities-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous 
actions and proceedings brought by Citigroup shareholders and purchasers 
or issuers of ARS and an issuer of variable rate demand obligations, asserting 
federal and state law claims arising from the collapse of the market in 2008, 
which plaintiffs contend Citigroup and other ARS underwriters and broker-
dealers foresaw or should have foreseen, but failed adequately to disclose. 
Many of these matters have been dismissed or settled. Most of the remaining 
matters are in arbitrations pending before FINRA.Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy ProceedingsBeginning in September 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been 
named as defendants in various adversary proceedings and claim objections 
in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
(LBHI) and the liquidation proceedings of Lehman Brothers Inc. (LBI) and 
Lehman Brothers Finance AG, a/k/a Lehman Brothers Finance SA (LBF). 
Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available in 
court filings under the docket numbers 08-13555, 08-01420, and 09-10583 
(Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Chapman, J.).On February 8, 2012, Citibank, N.A. and certain Citigroup affiliates were named as defendants in an adversary proceeding asserting objections to 
proofs of claim totaling approximately $2.6 billion filed by Citibank, N.A. and 
those affiliates, and claims under federal bankruptcy and state law to recover 
$2 billion deposited by LBHI with Citibank, N.A. against which Citibank, 
N.A. asserts a right of setoff. Plaintiffs also seek avoidance of a $500 million 
transfer and an amendment to a guarantee in favor of Citibank, N.A. and 
other relief. Plaintiffs filed amended complaints on November 16, 2012, 
January 29, 2014, and December 9, 2014, asserting additional claims and 
factual allegations, and amending certain previously asserted claims. 
Discovery is ongoing. Additional information concerning this action is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 12-01044 and 
08-13555 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Chapman, J.).
On July 21, 2014, an adversary proceeding was filed against Citibank, N.A., Citibank Korea Inc., and Citigroup Global Markets Ltd., asserting 
that defendants improperly have withheld termination payments under 
certain derivatives contracts. An amended complaint was filed on August 
6, 2014, and defendants filed an answer on October 6, 2014. Plaintiffs seek 
to recover approximately $70 million, plus interest. Discovery is ongoing. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket numbers 09-10583 and 14-02050 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) 

(Chapman, J.).Terra Firma Litigation
In December 2009, the general partners of two related private equity funds 
filed a complaint in New York state court, subsequently removed to the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting 
multi-billion-dollar fraud and other common law claims against certain 
Citigroup affiliates arising out of the May 2007 auction of the music 
company EMI, in which Citigroup acted as advisor to EMI and as a lender to 
plaintiffs™ acquisition vehicle. Following a jury trial, a verdict was returned 
in favor of Citigroup on November 4, 2010. Plaintiffs appealed from the entry 
of the judgment. On May 31, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit vacated the November 2010 jury verdict in favor of Citigroup 
and ordered that the case be retried. On March 7, 2014, the parties stipulated 
to the dismissal of all remaining claims in the action, without prejudice to 
plaintiffs™ rights to re-file those claims in England. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
numbers 09 Civ. 10459 (S.D.N.Y.) (Rakoff, J.) and 11-0126-cv (2d Cir.).In August and September 2013, plaintiffs in the New York proceedings, 
together with their affiliates and principal, filed fraud and negligent 
misrepresentation claims arising out of the EMI auction in the High Court 
of Justice, Queen™s Bench Division, Manchester District Registry Mercantile 

Court in Manchester, England, against certain Citigroup affiliates. The cases 

have since been transferred to the High Court of Justice, Queen™s Bench 

Division, Commercial Court in London. On March 7, 2014, the parties to the 
separate proceedings brought by Terra Firma in 2013 before the High Court 

of Justice, Queen™s Bench Division, Commercial Court in London consented 

to the service by plaintiffs of an Amended Claim Form incorporating the 
claims that would have proceeded to trial in the United States District Court 
for the Southern District of New York in July 2014 had the New York action 

not been dismissed. The Amended Claim Form was served on March 10, 
2014, and discovery is ongoing. A trial is scheduled to begin in 2016. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the claim number Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. & 

Ors v Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. & Ors (2014 Folio 267).Tribune Company BankruptcyCertain Citigroup affiliates have been named as defendants in adversary 
proceedings related to the Chapter 11 cases of Tribune Company (Tribune) 
filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, 
asserting claims arising out of the approximately $11 billion leveraged 
buyout of Tribune in 2007. On August 2, 2013, the Litigation Trustee, as 
successor plaintiff to the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, filed 
a fifth amended complaint in the adversary proceeding KIRSCHNER v. 
FITZSIMONS, ET AL. The complaint seeks to avoid and recover as actual 
fraudulent transfers the transfers of Tribune stock that occurred as a part of 
the leveraged buyout. Several Citigroup affiliates are named as ﬁShareholder 
Defendantsﬂ and are alleged to have tendered Tribune stock to Tribune as a 
part of the buyout. Several Citigroup affiliates are named as defendants in certain actions brought by Tribune noteholders, also seeking to recover the transfers of 

Tribune stock that occurred as a part of the leveraged buyout, as alleged 

state-law constructive fraudulent conveyances. Finally, Citigroup Global 

Markets Inc. (CGMI) has been named in a separate action as a defendant in 294connection with its role as advisor to Tribune. A motion to dismiss the claim 
against the Shareholder Defendants in the FITZSIMONS action is pending. 
The noteholders™ claims were previously dismissed, and an appeal to the 
Second Circuit is pending. A motion to dismiss the action against CGMI in 
its role as advisor to Tribune is pending. Additional information concerning 

these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
08-13141 (Bankr. D. Del.) (Carey, J.), 11 MD 02296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), 

12 MC 2296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), and 13-3992 (2d Cir.).
Credit Default Swaps MattersIn April 2011, the European Commission (EC) opened an investigation 
(Case No COMP/39.745) into the credit default swap (CDS) industry. The 
scope of the investigation initially concerned the question of ﬁwhether 16 
investment banks and Markit, the leading provider of financial information 
in the CDS market, have colluded and/or may hold and abuse a dominant 
position in order to control the financial information on CDS.ﬂ On July 
2, 2013, the EC issued to Citigroup, CGMI, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd., 
Citicorp North America Inc., and Citibank, N.A., as well as Markit, ISDA, and 
12 other investment bank dealer groups, a Statement of Objections alleging 
that Citigroup and the other dealers colluded to prevent exchanges from 
entering the credit derivatives business in breach of Article 101 of the Treaty 
on the Functioning of the European Union. The Statement of Objections sets 
forth the EC™s preliminary conclusions, does not prejudge the final outcome 
of the case, and does not benefit from the review and consideration of 
Citigroup™s arguments and defenses. Citigroup filed a Reply to the Statement 
of Objections on January 23, 2014, and made oral submissions to the EC 
on May 14, 2014.In July 2009 and September 2011, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice served Civil Investigative Demands (CIDs) on Citigroup 
concerning potential anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry. Citigroup 

has responded to the CIDs and is cooperating with the investigation. In addition, putative class action complaints have been filed by various entities against Citigroup, CGMI and Citibank, N.A., among other defendants, 
alleging anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry and asserting various 
claims under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act as well as a state law 
claim for unjust enrichment. On October 16, 2013, the U.S. Judicial Panel 
on Multidistrict Litigation centralized these putative class actions and 
ordered that those actions pending in the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of Illinois be transferred to the United States District Court 
for the Southern District of New York for coordinated or consolidated pretrial 

proceedings before Judge Denise Cote.On September 4, 2014, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York granted in part and denied in part defendants™ motion to 

dismiss the second consolidated amended complaint, dismissing plaintiffs™ 
claim for violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act and certain claims for 
damages, but permitting the case to proceed as to plaintiffs™ claims for 
violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and unjust enrichment. Additional 
information relating to this action is publicly available in court filings under 
the docket number 13 MD 2476 (S.D.N.Y.) (Cote, J.).
Foreign Exchange MattersRegulatory Actions: Government and regulatory agencies in the U.S., 
including the Antitrust Division and the Criminal Division of the Department 
of Justice, as well as agencies in other jurisdictions, including the U.K. 
Serious Fraud Office, the Swiss Competition Commission, and the Australian 
Competition and Consumer Commission, are conducting investigations or 
making inquiries regarding Citigroup™s foreign exchange business. Citigroup 
is fully cooperating with these and related investigations and inquiries.On November 12, 2014, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
(CFTC), the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and the Office of 
the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) announced settlements with 
Citibank, N.A. resolving their foreign exchange investigations. Citibank, N.A. 
was among five banks settling the CFTC™s and the FCA™s investigations and 

among three banks settling the OCC™s investigation. As part of the settlements, 

Citibank, N.A. agreed to pay penalties of approximately $358 million to the 
FCA, $350 million to the OCC, and $310 million to the CFTC and to enhance 
further the control framework governing its foreign exchange business.Antitrust and Other Litigation: Numerous foreign exchange dealers, including Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., are named as defendants in putative 
class actions that are proceeding on a consolidated basis in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York under the caption IN RE 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE BENCHMARK RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION.
 The 
plaintiffs in these actions allege that the defendants colluded to manipulate 
the WM/Reuters rate (WMR), thereby causing the putative classes to 
suffer losses in connection with WMR-based financial instruments. The 
plaintiffs assert federal and state antitrust claims and claims for unjust 
enrichment, and seek compensatory damages, treble damages where 
authorized by statute, restitution, and declaratory and injunctive relief. On 
March 31, 2014, plaintiffs in the putative class actions filed a consolidated 
amended complaint.Citibank, N.A., Citigroup, and Citibank Korea Inc., as well as numerous other foreign exchange dealers, were named as defendants in a putative 
class action captioned SIMMTECH CO. v. BARCLAYS BANK PLC, ET AL. 

(SIMMTECH) that was proceeding before the same court. The plaintiff 
sought to represent a putative class of persons who traded foreign currency 
with the defendants in Korea, alleging that the class suffered losses as a 
result of the defendants™ alleged WMR manipulation. The plaintiff asserted 
federal and state antitrust claims, and sought compensatory damages, treble 
damages, and declaratory and injunctive relief.Additionally, Citibank, N.A. and Citigroup, as well as numerous other 
foreign exchange dealers, were named as defendants in a putative class 
action captioned LARSEN v. BARCLAYS BANK PLC, ET AL. (LARSEN), that 

was proceeding before the same court. Plaintiff sought to represent a putative 
class of persons or entities in Norway who traded foreign currency with 
defendants, alleging that the class suffered losses as a result of defendants™ 
alleged WMR manipulation. Plaintiff asserted federal antitrust and unjust 
enrichment claims, and sought compensatory damages, treble damages 
where authorized by statute, and declaratory and injunctive relief.295Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other defendants, moved to dismiss all of these actions. On January 28, 2015, the court issued an opinion and order denying the motion as to the IN RE FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
BENCHMARK RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION plaintiffs, but dismissing 

the claims of the SIMMTECH and LARSEN plaintiffs in their entirety on the 
grounds that their federal claims were barred by the Foreign Trade Antitrust 

Improvements Act and their state claims had an insufficient nexus to New 
York. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available in 

court filings under the docket numbers 13 Civ. 7789, 13 Civ. 7953, and 14 Civ. 

1364 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).
Additionally, Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., as well as numerous other 
foreign exchange dealers, are named as defendants in a putative class 
action captioned TAYLOR v. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, ET AL. 

The plaintiffs seek to represent a putative class of investors that transacted 
in exchange-traded foreign exchange futures contracts and/or options on 
foreign exchange futures contracts on certain exchanges, alleging that the 
putative class was harmed as a result of the defendants™ manipulation of the 
foreign exchange market. The plaintiffs assert violations of the Commodity 
Exchange Act and federal antitrust claims. Additional information 
concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
number 1:15-cv-1350 (S.D.N.Y.) (Schofield, J.).
Interbank Offered Rates-Related Litigation and 
Other MattersRegulatory Actions: Government agencies in the U.S., including the 
Department of Justice, the CFTC, and a consortium of state attorneys general, 
as well as agencies in other jurisdictions, including the Swiss Competition 
Commission, are conducting investigations or making inquiries regarding 
submissions made by panel banks to bodies that publish various interbank 
offered rates and other benchmark rates. As members of a number of such 
panels, Citigroup subsidiaries have received requests for information and documents. Citigroup is cooperating with the investigations and inquiries 
and is responding to the requests.Antitrust and Other Litigation: Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other U.S. Dollar (USD) LIBOR panel banks, are defendants in a 
multi-district litigation (MDL) proceeding before the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York captioned IN RE LIBOR-BASED 

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ANTITRUST LITIGATION (the LIBOR MDL). 

Following motion practice, consolidated amended complaints were filed on 
behalf of two separate putative classes of plaintiffs: (i) OTC purchasers of 
derivative instruments tied to USD LIBOR; and, (ii) purchasers of exchange-
traded derivative instruments tied to USD LIBOR. Each of these putative 
classes alleges that the panel bank defendants conspired to suppress USD 
LIBOR: (i) OTC purchasers assert claims under the Sherman Act and for 
unjust enrichment and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and 
fair dealing; and, (ii) purchasers of exchange-traded derivative instruments 
assert claims under the Commodity Exchange Act and the Sherman Act 
and for unjust enrichment. Individual actions commenced by various 
Charles Schwab entities also were consolidated into the MDL proceeding. The plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and restitution for losses caused 
by the alleged violations, as well as treble damages under the Sherman Act. 
The Schwab and OTC plaintiffs also seek injunctive relief.Additional actions have been consolidated in the MDL proceeding, including (i) lawsuits filed by, or on behalf of putative classes of, community 

and other banks, savings and loans institutions, credit unions, municipalities 
and purchasers and holders of LIBOR-linked financial products; and, 
(ii) lawsuits filed by putative classes of lenders and adjustable rate mortgage 
borrowers. The plaintiffs allege that defendant panel banks artificially 
suppressed USD LIBOR in violation of applicable law and seek compensatory 
and other damages. Additional information relating to these actions is publicly available in court filings under the following docket numbers: 12 Civ. 4205; 12 Civ. 

5723; 12 Civ. 5822; 12 Civ. 6056; 12 Civ. 6693; 12 Civ. 7461; 13 Civ. 

346; 13 Civ. 407; 13 Civ. 1016, 13 Civ. 1456, 13 Civ. 1700, 13 Civ. 2262, 

13 Civ. 2297; 13 Civ. 4018; 13 Civ. 7720; 14 Civ. 146 (Buchwald, J.); 

12 Civ. 6294 (E.D.N.Y.) (Seybert, J.); 12 Civ. 6571 (N.D. Cal.) (Conti, J.); 

12 Civ. 10903 (C.D. Cal.) (Snyder, J.); 13 Civ. 48 (S.D. Cal.) (Sammartino, 

J.); 13 Civ. 62 (C.D. Cal.) (Phillips, J.); 13 Civ. 106 (N.D. Cal.) (Beller, J.); 

13 Civ. 108 (N.D. Cal.) (Ryu, J.); 13 Civ. 109 (N.D. Cal.) (Laporte, J.); 13 Civ. 

122 (C.D. Cal.) (Bernal, J.); 13 Civ. 334, 13 Civ. 335 (S.D. Iowa) (Pratt, J); 

13 Civ. 342 (E.D. Va.) (Brinkema, J.); 13 Civ. 1466 (S.D. Cal.) (Lorenz, J.); 

13 Civ. 1476 (E.D. Cal.) (Mueller, J.); 13 Civ. 2149 (S.D. Tex.) (Hoyt, J.); 

13 Civ. 2244 (N.D. Cal.) (Hamilton, J.); 13 Civ. 2921 (N.D. Cal.) (Chesney, 

J.); 13 Civ. 2979 (N.D. Cal.) (Tigar, J.); 13 Civ. 4352 (E.D. Pa.) (Restrepo, J.); 

and 13 Civ. 5278 (N.D. Cal.) (Vadas, J.)
On June 30, 2014, the United States Supreme Court granted a petition for a writ of certiorari in GELBOIM, ET AL. v. BANK OF AMERICA CORP., 

ET AL. with respect to the dismissal by the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit of an appeal by the plaintiff class of indirect OTC 
purchasers of U.S. debt securities. On January 21, 2015, the Supreme Court 
ruled that, contrary to the Second Circuit™s opinion, the plaintiffs had a right 

to appeal, and remanded the case to the Second Circuit for consideration 
of the plaintiffs™ appeal on the merits. Additional information concerning 
this appeal is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
13-3565 (2d Cir.), 13-3636 (2d Cir.), and 13-1174 (U.S.).
Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other USD LIBOR panel banks, also are named as defendants in an individual action filed in 
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York 

on February 13, 2013, captioned 7 WEST 57th STREET REALTY CO. v. 
CITIGROUP, INC., ET AL. The plaintiff alleges that the defendant panel 

banks manipulated USD LIBOR to keep it artificially high and that this 
manipulation affected the value of plaintiffs™ OTC municipal bond portfolio 
in violation of federal and state antitrust laws and federal RICO law. The 

plaintiff seeks compensatory damages, treble damages where authorized by 
statute, and declaratory relief. Additional information concerning this action 
is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 13 Civ. 981 

(Gardephe, J.).296Separately, on April 30, 2012, an action was filed in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned LAYDON 
v. MIZUHO BANK LTD. ET AL. against defendant banks that are or were 

members of the panels making submissions used in the calculation of 
Japanese yen LIBOR and TIBOR, and certain affiliates of those banks, 
including Citigroup, Citibank, N.A., Citibank Japan Ltd. and Citigroup Global 
Markets Japan Inc. The plaintiff asserts claims under federal antitrust law 
and the Commodity Exchange Act, as well as a claim for unjust enrichment, 
and seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, including treble 
damages under certain statutes, as well as costs and expenses. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 12 Civ. 3419 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.).
On May 2, 2014, plaintiffs in the class action SULLIVAN v. BARCLAYS PLC, 
ET AL pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York filed a second amended complaint naming Citigroup and Citibank, 

N.A. as defendants. Plaintiffs claim to have suffered losses as a result of 
purported EURIBOR manipulation and assert claims under the Commodity 
Exchange Act, the Sherman Act and the federal RICO law, and for unjust 

enrichment. On September 11, 2014, the court granted the Department 
of Justice™s motion to stay discovery for eight months, until May 12, 2015. 

Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the docket number 13 Civ. 2811 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.).
Interchange Fees LitigationBeginning in 2005, several putative class actions were filed against Citigroup 
and Related Parties, together with Visa, MasterCard and other banks and their 
affiliates, in various federal district courts and consolidated with other related 
cases in a multi-district litigation proceeding before Judge Gleeson in the 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (Interchange 
MDL). This proceeding is captioned IN RE PAYMENT CARD INTERCHANGE 
FEE AND MERCHANT DISCOUNT ANTITRUST LITIGATION.The plaintiffs, merchants that accept Visa- and MasterCard-branded 
payment cards as well as membership associations that claim to represent 
certain groups of merchants, allege, among other things, that defendants 
have engaged in conspiracies to set the price of interchange and merchant 
discount fees on credit and debit card transactions and to restrain trade 
through various Visa and MasterCard rules governing merchant conduct, 

all in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and certain California 
statutes. Supplemental complaints also have been filed against defendants 
in the putative class actions alleging that Visa™s and MasterCard™s respective 

initial public offerings were anticompetitive and violated Section 7 of the 
Clayton Act, and that MasterCard™s initial public offering constituted a 

fraudulent conveyance.On January 14, 2014, the court entered a final judgment approving the terms of a class settlement providing for, among other things, a total 

payment to the class of $6.05 billion; a rebate to merchants participating in 
the damages class settlement of 10 basis points on interchange collected for a 
period of eight months by the Visa and MasterCard networks; and changes to 

certain network rules. A number of objectors have noticed an appeal from the final class settlement approval order with the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit. Additional information concerning these consolidated 
actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket number MDL 
05-1720 (E.D.N.Y.) (Brodie, J.) and 12-4671 (2d Cir.).
Numerous merchants, including large national merchants, have requested exclusion from the class settlements, and some of those opting out 
have filed complaints against Visa, MasterCard, and in some instances one or 

more issuing banks. Two of these suits, 7-ELEVEN, INC., ET AL. v. VISA INC., 

ET AL., and SPEEDY STOP FOOD STORES, LLC, ET AL. v. VISA INC., ET AL., 

name Citigroup as a defendant. On December 5, 2014, the Interchange 
MDL, including the opt out cases, was transferred from Judge Gleeson to 
Judge Brodie. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 05-md-1720 (E.D.N.Y.) 

(Brodie, J.); 13-cv-4442 (S.D.N.Y.) (Hellerstein, J.), and 13-10-75377A 

(Tex. Dist. Ct.).
ISDAFIX-Related Litigation and Other MattersRegulatory Actions: Government agencies in the U.S., including the 
Department of Justice and the CFTC, are conducting investigations or 
making inquiries concerning submissions for the global benchmark for 
fixed interest rate swaps (ISDAFIX) and trading in products that reference 
ISDAFIX. Citigroup is fully cooperating with these and related investigations 
and inquiries.Antitrust and Other Litigation. Beginning in September 2014, various plaintiffs filed putative class action complaints in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York against Citigroup and other U.S. 

dollar (USD) ISDAFIX panel banks, which are proceeding on a consolidated 
basis. On February 12, 2015, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint alleging 
that the defendants colluded to manipulate ISDAFIX, thereby causing the 
putative class to suffer losses in connection with USD interest rate derivatives 
purchased from the defendants. Plaintiffs assert federal and various 
common law claims and seek compensatory damages, treble damages 
where authorized by statute, restitution and declaratory and injunctive 
relief. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available 
in court filings under the consolidated lead docket number 14 Civ. 7126 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Furman, J.).
Money Laundering InquiriesCitigroup and Related Parties, including Citigroup™s indirect, wholly-owned 
subsidiary Banamex USA (BUSA), a California state-chartered bank, have 
received grand jury subpoenas issued by the United States Attorney™s Office 
for the District of Massachusetts concerning, among other issues, policies, 
procedures and activities related to compliance with Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) 
and anti-money laundering (AML) requirements under applicable federal 
laws and banking regulations. Banamex USA also has received a subpoena 
from the FDIC related to its BSA and AML compliance program. Citigroup 
and BUSA also have received inquiries and requests for information from 
other regulators, including the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network 
and the California Department of Business Oversight, concerning BSA- and 
AML-related issues. Citigroup is cooperating fully with these inquiries.297Oceanografia Fraud and Related MattersOn February 28, 2014, Citigroup announced that it was adjusting downward its earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 and full year 2013 by $235 million 
after tax ($360 million pretax) as a result of a fraud discovered in a Petróleos 
Mexicanos (Pemex) supplier program involving Oceanografía SA de CV 
(OSA), a Mexican oil services company and a key supplier to Pemex. During 
the first quarter of 2014, Citigroup incurred approximately $165 million of 
incremental credit costs related to the Pemex supplier program. The vast 
majority of the credit costs were associated with Citigroup™s $33 million 
of direct exposure to OSA as of December 31, 2013 and uncertainty about 
Pemex™s obligation to pay Citigroup for a portion of the accounts receivable 
Citigroup validated with Pemex as of year-end 2013 (approximately 
$113 million). The remaining incremental credit costs were associated with 
an additional supplier to Pemex within the Pemex supplier program that was 
found to have similar issues.In the United States, the SEC has commenced a formal investigation and the Department of Justice has requested information regarding 
Banamex™s dealings with OSA. Citigroup continues to cooperate fully with 

these inquiries.In Mexico, the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV) conducted an in situ extraordinary review of the facts and 
circumstances of the fraud. As a result of its review, the CNBV issued a 

corrective action order that must be implemented by Banamex and imposed 
a fine of approximately $2.2 million. The CNBV continues to review 
Banamex™s compliance with the corrective action order. In addition, the 

CNBV has initiated a formal process to impose additional fines on Banamex 
with respect to the manner in which OSA™s debt was recorded by Banamex. 

Citigroup continues to cooperate fully with all of the inquiries related to 
the OSA fraud.Derivative Actions and Related Proceedings: Beginning in April 2014, Citigroup has been named as a defendant in two complaints filed by its 
stockholders seeking to inspect Citigroup™s books and records pursuant to 

Section 220 of Chapter 8 of the Delaware Corporations Law with regard to 
various matters, including the OSA fraud. On September 30, 2014, in the 
action brought by Oklahoma Firefighters Pension & Retirement System, the 
Master of the Court of Chancery issued a final report recommending that the 
court enter an order granting in part and denying in part plaintiff™s request 

for inspection. On October 7, 2014, Citigroup filed a notice of exception to 
the final report. Additional information concerning these actions is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers C.A. No. 9587-ML 
(Del. Ch.) (LeGrow, M.) and C.A. No. 10468-ML (Del. Ch.) (LeGrow, M).
Parmalat Litigation and Related MattersOn July 29, 2004, Dr. Enrico Bondi, the Extraordinary Commissioner 
appointed under Italian law to oversee the administration of various 
Parmalat companies, filed a complaint in New Jersey state court against 
Citigroup and Related Parties alleging, among other things, that the 
defendants ﬁfacilitatedﬂ a number of frauds by Parmalat insiders. On 
October 20, 2008, following trial, a jury rendered a verdict in Citigroup™s 
favor on Parmalat™s claims and in favor of Citibank, N.A. on three 
counterclaims. Parmalat has exhausted all appeals, and the judgment is now 
final. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available 
in court filings under the docket number A-2654-08T2 (N.J. Sup. Ct.). 
Following the jury verdict awarding $431 million in damages on Citigroup™s 
counterclaim, Citigroup has taken steps to enforce that judgment in the 
Italian Courts. On August 29, 2014, the Court of Appeal of Bologna affirmed 
the decision in the full amount of $431 million, to be paid in Parmalat 
shares. The judgment is subject to appeal by Parmalat.Prosecutors in Parma and Milan, Italy, have commenced criminal 
proceedings against certain current and former Citigroup employees (along 
with numerous other investment banks and certain of their current and 
former employees, as well as former Parmalat officers and accountants). 
In the event of an adverse judgment against the individuals in question, 
the authorities could seek administrative remedies against Citigroup. 
On April 18, 2011, the Milan criminal court acquitted the sole Citigroup 
defendant of market-rigging charges. The Milan prosecutors have appealed 
part of that judgment and seek administrative remedies against Citigroup, 
which may include disgorgement of 70 million Euro and a fine of 900,000 
Euro. On April 4, 2013, the Italian Supreme Court granted the appeal of 
the Milan Public Prosecutors and referred the matter to the Milan Court 
of Appeal for further proceedings concerning the administrative liability, if 

any, of Citigroup. Additionally, the Parmalat administrator filed a purported 

civil complaint against Citigroup in the context of the Parma criminal 
proceedings, which seeks 14 billion Euro in damages. The trial in the Parma 
criminal proceedings is ongoing. Judgment is expected during the summer 
of 2015. In January 2011, certain Parmalat institutional investors filed a 
civil complaint seeking damages of approximately 130 million Euro against 
Citigroup and other financial institutions.298Regulatory Review of Consumer ﬁAdd-Onﬂ ProductsCertain of Citi™s consumer businesses, including its Citi-branded and retail services cards businesses, offer or have in the past offered or participated 
in the marketing, distribution, or servicing of products, such as payment 
protection and identity monitoring, that are ancillary to the provision of 
credit to the consumer (add-on products). These add-on products have been 
the subject of enforcement actions against other institutions by regulators, 
including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the OCC, 
and the FDIC, that have resulted in orders to pay restitution to customers 
and penalties in substantial amounts. Citi has made restitution to certain 
customers in connection with certain add-on products. In light of the current 
regulatory focus on add-on products and the actions regulators have taken 
in relation to other credit card issuers, one or more regulators may order 
that Citi pay additional restitution to customers and/or impose penalties 
or other relief arising from Citi™s marketing, distribution, or servicing of 
add-on products.Allied Irish Bank LitigationIn 2003, Allied Irish Bank (AIB) filed a complaint in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to hold Citibank, N.A. 
and Bank of America, N.A., former prime brokers for AIB™s subsidiary Allfirst 
Bank (Allfirst), liable for losses incurred by Allfirst as a result of fraudulent 
and fictitious foreign currency trades entered into by one of Allfirst™s traders. 
AIB seeks compensatory damages of approximately $500 million, plus 
punitive damages, from Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. collectively. 
In 2006, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants™ motion 
to dismiss. In 2009, AIB filed an amended complaint. In 2012, the parties 
completed discovery and the court granted Citibank, N.A.™s motion to strike 
AIB™s demand for a jury trial. Citibank, N.A. also filed a motion for summary 
judgment, which is pending. AIB has announced a settlement with Bank 
of America, N.A. for an undisclosed amount, leaving Citibank, N.A. as the 
sole remaining defendant. Additional information concerning this matter 
is publicly available in court filings under docket number 03 Civ. 3748 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Batts, J.).Settlement PaymentsPayments required in settlement agreements described above have been 
made or are covered by existing litigation accruals.29929. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)2014˜˚˛˝In millions of dollars, except per share amountsFourthThirdSecondFirstRevenues, net of interest expense
$17,812$19,604$19,342$20,124
14,42612,95515,52112,149
2,0131,7501,7301,974Income from continuing operations before income taxes$1,373$4,899$2,091$6,0019911,9851,8382,050Income from continuing operations$382$2,914$253$3,951
(1)(16)(22)37˝˚‡˝˝)Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$381$2,898$231$3,98831595045Citigroup™s net income
$350$2,839$181$3,943Earnings per share (1)Basic
$0.06$0.89$0.03$1.220.060.880.031.24˛⁄˚˛˛⁄˜˝Diluted

0.060.880.031.22˛⁄˝˝0.060.880.031.23˛⁄˚˚˛⁄˜˝Common stock price per share
$56.37$53.66$49.58$55.2049.6846.9045.6846.3454.1151.8247.1047.600.010.010.010.01˚⁄˚˛˚⁄˚˛˚⁄˚˛˚⁄˚˛’™
‡˛…⁄

300FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENTRATIOS2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜˙ˆˇˆ˘
0.39%
†˛“3.4
†˜“3.5š
†˝“11.1
†‘“1.8†˛“

†˜“
†˝“
†‘“
AVERAGE DEPOSIT LIABILITIES IN OFFICES OUTSIDE THE U.S. (1)2014˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜In millions of dollars at year end except ratios
Average
 interest rateAverage
 balance…

…
…

…
0.48%$61,705ƒƒ0.58229,880
†˜“1.08243,630Total
0.80%$535,215ƒƒ€‘–⁄‘€€†˛“
†˜“
MATURITY PROFILE OF TIME DEPOSITS  
($100,000 OR MORE) IN U.S. OFFICESIn millions of dollars  
at December 31, 2014
Under 3 monthsOver 3 to 6 monthsOver 6 to 12 monthsOver 12 months
†˛“$17,271$6,250$2,024$ 655†˜“3,2865961151,439†˛“
†˜“
301SUPERVISION, REGULATION AND OTHERSUPERVISION AND REGULATIONCiti is subject to regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as applicable laws in the other jurisdictions in which it does business.GeneralCitigroup is a registered bank holding company and financial holding 
company and is regulated and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board. 
Citigroup™s nationally chartered subsidiary banks, including Citibank, N.A., 
are regulated and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) and its state-chartered depository institution by the relevant state™s 
banking department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 
The FDIC also has examination authority for banking subsidiaries whose 
deposits it insures. Overseas branches of Citibank, N.A. are regulated and 
supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC and overseas subsidiary 
banks by the Federal Reserve Board. These overseas branches and subsidiary 
banks also are regulated and supervised by regulatory authorities in the host 
countries. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) 
regulates consumer financial products and services. For more information 
on U.S. and foreign regulation affecting or potentially affecting Citi and its 
subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Other Bank and Bank Holding Company RegulationCiti, including its banking subsidiaries, is subject to regulatory limitations, 
including requirements for banks to maintain reserves against deposits, 
requirements as to risk-based capital and leverage (see ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ 
above and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), restrictions 
on the types and amounts of loans that may be made and the interest that 
may be charged, and limitations on investments that can be made and 
services that can be offered. The Federal Reserve Board may also expect Citi 
to commit resources to its subsidiary banks in certain circumstances. Citi 
is also subject to anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws, 
including standards for verifying client identification at account opening and 
obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities.Securities and Commodities RegulationCiti conducts securities underwriting, brokerage and dealing activities 
in the U.S. through Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI), its primary 
broker-dealer, and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, which are subject to 
regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the 
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and certain exchanges. Citi conducts 
similar securities activities outside the U.S., subject to local requirements, 
through various subsidiaries and affiliates, principally Citigroup Global 
Markets Limited in London (CGML), which is regulated principally by the 
U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, and Citigroup Global Markets Japan 
Inc. in Tokyo, which is regulated principally by the Financial Services 
Agency of Japan.Citi also has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges. In the U.S., CGMI is a member of the principal U.S. futures exchanges, and Citi 
has subsidiaries that are registered as futures commission merchants and 
commodity pool operators with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 

(CFTC). Citibank, N.A., CGMI, Citigroup Energy Inc. and CGML also have 
registered as swap dealers with the CFTC. CGMI is also subject to SEC 
and CFTC rules that specify uniform minimum net capital requirements. 
Compliance with these rules could limit those operations of CGMI that 
require the intensive use of capital and also limits the ability of broker-

dealers to transfer large amounts of capital to parent companies and other 
affiliates. See also ﬁCapital Resourcesﬂ and Note 19 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for a further discussion of capital considerations of 
Citi™s non-banking subsidiaries.
Transactions with AffiliatesTransactions between Citi™s U.S. subsidiary depository institutions and their 
non-bank affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, and are 
generally required to be on arm™s-length terms. See also ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ above.COMPETITIONThe financial services industry is highly competitive. Citi™s competitors 
include a variety of financial services and advisory companies. Citi competes 
for clients and capital (including deposits and funding in the short- and 
long-term debt markets) with some of these competitors globally and with 
others on a regional or product basis. Citi™s competitive position depends 
on many factors, including the value of Citi™s brand name, reputation, the 
types of clients and geographies served, the quality, range, performance, 
innovation and pricing of products and services, the effectiveness of and 
access to distribution channels, technology advances, customer service 
and convenience, effectiveness of transaction execution, interest rates and 
lending limits, regulatory constraints and the effectiveness of sales promotion 
efforts. Citi™s ability to compete effectively also depends upon its ability to 
attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees, while 
managing compensation and other costs. For additional information on 
competitive factors and uncertainties impacting Citi™s businesses, see ﬁRisk 
Factorsﬂ above.302PROPERTIESCiti™s principal executive offices are currently located at 399 Park Avenue in New York City and are the subject of a lease. Citi also has additional office 
space at 601 Lexington Avenue in New York City under a long-term lease 
and at 111 Wall Street in New York City under a lease of the entire building. 
Citibank, N.A. leases a building in Long Island City, New York that is fully 
occupied by Citi.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc.™s principal offices are located at 
388 and 390 Greenwich Street in New York City, with both buildings subject to 

long term-leases and fully occupied by Citi.Citigroup™s principal executive offices in 
EMEA are located at 25 and 33 Canada Square in London™s Canary Wharf, with both buildings subject to 

long-term leases. Citi is the largest or sole tenant of these buildings.In Asia, Citi™s principal executive offices are in leased premises located 
at Citibank Tower in Hong Kong. Citi also has significant leased premises 

in Singapore and Japan. Citi has major or full ownership interests in 
country headquarters locations in Shanghai, Seoul, Kuala Lumpur, Manila, 

and Mumbai.Citi™s principal executive offices in Mexico, which also serve as the 
headquarters of Banamex, are located in Mexico City. Citi™s principal 

executive offices for Latin America (other than Mexico) are located in leased 
premises located in Miami.Citi also owns or leases over 69 million square feet of real estate in 101 countries, consisting of over 10,000 properties.Citi continues to evaluate its global real estate footprint and space requirements and may determine from time to time that certain of its 
premises are no longer necessary. There is no assurance that Citi will be 

able to dispose of any excess premises or that it will not incur charges in 
connection with such dispositions, which could be material to Citi™s operating 

results in a given period.Citi has developed programs for its properties to achieve long-term energy efficiency objectives and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 
lessen its impact on climate change. These activities could help to mitigate, 
but will not eliminate, Citi™s potential risk from future climate change 

regulatory requirements.For further information concerning leases, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF THE 
IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN  
RIGHTS ACTPursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human 
Rights Act of 2012 (Section 219), which added Section 13(r) to the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Citi is required to disclose in its annual 
or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly 
engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with 
individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law. Disclosure 
is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings 
were conducted in compliance with applicable law. Citi has previously 
disclosed reportable activities pursuant to Section 219 for each of the first, 
second and third quarters of 2014 in its related quarterly reports on Form 
10-Q. Citi has no reportable activities pursuant to Section 219 for the fourth 
quarter of 2014.303UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY, PURCHASES  OF EQUITY SECURITIES, DIVIDENDSUnregistered Sales of Equity SecuritiesNone.Equity Security RepurchasesThe following table summarizes Citi™s equity security repurchases, which consisted entirely of common stock repurchases, during the three months 
ended December 31, 2014:In millions, except per share amounts
Total shares
 purchasedAverage
 price paid per shareApproximate dollar value of shares that
 may yet be purchased under the plan or programsOctober 20142.8$50.82$532ŠŠN/ANovember 2014
1.053.73479ŠŠN/ADecember 20143.453.86297ŠŠN/AAmounts as of December 31, 2014
7.2$52.65$297†˛“
˜˝⁄




†˜“





DividendsIn addition to Board of Directors™ approval, Citi™s ability to pay common 
stock dividends substantially depends on regulatory approval, including an 
annual regulatory review of the results of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve Board and the 
supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. See ﬁRisk Factors-
Business and Operational Risksﬂ above. For information on the ability of 
Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions and non-bank subsidiaries to 
pay dividends, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Any 
dividend on Citi™s outstanding common stock would also need to be made in 
compliance with Citi™s obligations to its outstanding preferred stock.304PERFORMANCE GRAPHComparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total ReturnThe following graph and table compare the cumulative total return on Citi™s common stock, which is listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol ﬁCﬂ and 
held by 89,655 common stockholders of record as of January 31, 2015, with 
the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Financial 
Index over the five-year period through December 31, 2014. The graph 
and table assume that $100 was invested on December 31, 2009 in Citi™s 
common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Financial Index, and that all 
dividends were reinvested.050100150200250Citigroup
S&P 500 IndexS&P Financial IndexComparison of Five-Year Cumulative 
Total ReturnFor the years ended201420092010201120122013š”
˙›š›305CORPORATE INFORMATION CITIGROUP EXECUTIVE OFFICERSCitigroup™s executive officers as of February 25, 2015 are:NameAgePosition and office held

˙”‹⁄
‘–˙”‹⁄
€–š
š
ˇ
€‘

˙”‹⁄
’˜˙”‹⁄

€˜˙”‹⁄

’˛
€˛
€€
’‘˙”‹⁄


˙”‹⁄

€˚š
ž

ž
’‘
Each executive officer has held executive or management positions with Citigroup for at least five years, except that: Ms. Desoer joined Citi in April 2014. Prior to joining Citi, Ms. Desoer had a 35-year career at Bank of America, where she was President, Bank of 
America Home Loans, a Global Technology & Operations Executive, and 
President, Consumer Products, among other roles. Mr. Weerasinghe joined Citi in June 2012. Prior to joining Citi, 
Mr. Weerasinghe was Senior Partner at Shearman & Sterling.Code of Conduct, Code of EthicsCiti has a Code of Conduct that maintains its commitment to the highest 
standards of conduct. The Code of Conduct is supplemented by a Code 
of Ethics for Financial Professionals (including accounting, controllers, 
financial reporting operations, financial planning and analysis, treasury, 
tax, strategy and M&A, investor relations and regional/product finance 
professionals and administrative staff) that applies worldwide. The Code of 
Ethics for Financial Professionals applies to Citi™s principal executive officer, 
principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. Amendments 
and waivers, if any, to the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals will be 
disclosed on Citi™s website, www.citigroup.com.Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Citi website by clicking on ﬁAbout Us,ﬂ 
and then ﬁCorporate Governance.ﬂ Citi™s Corporate Governance Guidelines 

can also be found there, as well as the charters for the Audit Committee, the 
Ethics and Culture Committee, the Nomination, Governance and Public 
Affairs Committee, the Personnel and Compensation Committee and the Risk 
Management Committee of the Board. These materials are also available by 
writing to Citigroup Inc., Corporate Governance, 601 Lexington Avenue, 19th 

Floor, New York, New York 10022.
CITIGROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORSMichael L. CorbatChief Executive OfficerCitigroup Inc.Duncan P. HennesCo-Founder and Partner
Atrevida Partners, LLCFranz B. HumerChairman and CEO, Retired
Roche Holding Ltd.Michael E. O™NeillChairman
Citigroup Inc.Gary M. ReinerOperating Partner
General Atlantic LLCJudith RodinPresident
Rockefeller Foundation Robert L. RyanChief Financial Officer, Retired
Medtronic Inc.Anthony M. SantomeroFormer President
Federal Reserve Bank of PhiladelphiaJoan E. SperoSenior Research Scholar
Columbia University School of International 
and Public AffairsDiana L. TaylorVice Chair
Solera Capital, LLCWilliam S. Thompson, Jr.Chief Executive Officer, Retired
Pacific Investment Management Company 
(PIMCO)James S. TurleyChairman and Chief Executive Officer, Retired 
Ernst & YoungErnesto Zedillo Ponce de 
LeonDirector, Center for the Study of Globalization; 
Professor in the Field 
of International 
Economics and Politics 
Yale University306SignaturesPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 25th day 
of February, 2015.Citigroup Inc.(Registrant)John C. Gerspach
Chief Financial OfficerPursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 25th day of February, 2015.Citigroup™s Principal Executive Officer and a Director:Michael L. CorbatCitigroup™s Principal Financial Officer:John C. GerspachCitigroup™s Principal Accounting Officer:Jeffrey R. WalshThe Directors of Citigroup listed below executed a power of attorney appointing John C. Gerspach their attorney-in-fact, empowering him to sign 
this report on their behalf.




š


š
John C. Gerspach307308Stockholder Information
Produced by Citi Graphic Communications.
Citigroup common stock is listed on the NYSE under the ticker 
symbol ﬁCﬂ and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Mexico 
Stock Exchange. Citigroup preferred stock Series AA, C, J, K 
and L are also listed on the NYSE.
Because Citigroup™s common stock is listed on the NYSE, 
the Chief Executive Of˜cer is required to make an annual 
certi˜cation to the NYSE stating that he was not aware of 

any violation by Citigroup of the corporate governance listing 
standards of the NYSE. The annual certi˜cation to that effect 
was made to the NYSE on May 19, 2014.
As of January 31, 2015, Citigroup had approximately 89,655 
common stockholders of record. This ˜gure does not 
represent the actual number of bene˜cial owners of common 

stock because shares are frequently held in ﬁstreet nameﬂ 
by securities dealers and others for the bene˜t of individual 
owners who may vote the shares.
Transfer Agent
Stockholder address changes and inquiries regarding stock 
transfers, dividend replacement, 1099-DIV reporting and 

lost securities for common and preferred stock should be 
directed to:
Computershare
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 Telephone No. 781 575 4555
 
Toll-free No. 888 250 3985
 E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
 Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
Exchange Agent

Holders of Golden State Bancorp, Associates First Capital 
Corporation, Citicorp or Salomon Inc. common stock should 
arrange to exchange their certi˜cates by contacting:
Computershare
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 
Telephone No. 781 575 4555
 Toll-free No. 888 250 3985
 E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
 
Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
On May 9, 2011, Citi effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split. 
All Citi common stock certi˜cates issued prior to that date 

must be exchanged for new certi˜cates by contacting 
Computershare at the address noted above.
Citi™s 2014 Form 10-K ˜led with the SEC, as well as other 
annual and quarterly reports, are available from Citi 
Document Services toll free at 877 936 2737 (outside the 
United States at 716 730 8055), by e-mailing a request to 

docserve@citi.com, or by writing to:
Citi Document Services
 540 Crosspoint Parkway
 
Getzville, NY 14068
Stockholder Inquiries
Information about Citi, including quarterly earnings 

releases and ˜lings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission, can be accessed via its website at 
 www.citigroup.com. Stockholder inquiries can also be 
directed by e-mail to shareholderrelations@citi.com.
The cover and editorial section of this annual report are printed on McCoy, manufactured by Sappi Fine Paper North America with 10% PCW 
 and FSC
® Chain of Custody Certi˜cation. 100% of the electricity used to manufacture McCoy is Green-e
® certi˜ed renewable energy.
The ˜nancial section of this annual report is printed on FSC
® certi˜ed Accent
® Opaque from International Paper. International Paper is certi˜ed 
to both the FSC
® Chain of Custody standard (BV-COC-080209) and the SFI Chain of Custody standard (BV-COC-209908-B).
Apple is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the United States and other countries. Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc.
Cover photograph, Day to Night
® Shanghai, China 2012 © Stephen Wilkes, Courtesy of Peter Fetterman Gallery.
www.citigroup.com
© 2015 Citigroup Inc.
1254964
 CIT24023
 03/15
Take a closer look at Citi with 
the digital Annual Report: 
 citi.com/annualreport
