2013
Annual Report
Financial Summary
In billions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2013
2012
2011
Citicorp Net Revenues
$71.8$69.9
$71.0
Citi Holdings Net Revenues
4.5
(0.8)
6.3
Citigroup Net Revenues
$76.4
$69.1
$77.3
Citicorp Net Income
15.6
14.1
15.3
Citi Holdings Net Income
(1.9)
(6.5)(4.2)
Citigroup Net Income
$13.7
$7.5
$11.1
Diluted EPS Š Net Income
4.35
2.44
3.63
Diluted EPS Š Income from Continuing Operations
4.26
2.46
3.60
Citicorp Assets
1,763
1,709
1,649
Citi Holdings Assets
117156225
Citigroup Assets
$1,880$1,865
$1,874
Deposits
968.3
930.6
865.9
Citigroup Stockholders™ Equity
204.3
189.0
177.8
Tier 1 Common Ratio
112.6%12.7
%11.8%Tier 1 Capital Ratio
113.7
%14.1
%13.6
%Book Value per Share
$65.23
$61.57
$60.70
Common Shares Outstanding (millions)
3,029.2
3,028.9
2,923.9
Market Capitalization
$158
$120
$77Direct Staff (thousands)
251
259
266
Totals may not sum due to rounding.
1 Under Current Regulatory Guidelines.
1Dear Fellow Shareholders,
When I wrote to you one year ago, just 
after assuming the role of CEO, I laid 
out three broad goals for our company. 
First, I want Citi to generate consistent, 

quality earnings. Second, I want Citi to 
be known for making smart decisions 
in every aspect of our work. Third, 
I concluded that I won™t be satis˜ed 
until Citi has completely rebuilt our 
credibility with all our stakeholders.
Let me recap our progress in 2013 toward achieving those 
goals and lay out the agenda I™ve set for our ˜rm for 2014 
 and beyond.
2013 was a busy year for the ˜rm and for me personally. 
 I traveled some 200,000 miles visiting 53 cities, met with 
two clients each day on average, spoke with regulators in 
nearly every country I visited, had dozens of interactions 
with investors and spoke with our employees at internal 
gatherings at least once a week.
The consistent theme from all these conversations is that 
our stakeholders agree that our strategy Š focused on the 
dominant secular trends of globalization, urbanization and 
digitization Š is right, both for our ˜rm and for the times. 
All three trends reinforce each other. And with our industry-
leading global network, presence in the world™s top cities, and 
ambitious digital agenda for our consumer and institutional 
businesses, Citi is uniquely positioned to harness each for the 
bene˜t of our clients.
But many also raised questions about our ability to 
successfully execute that strategy and operate our businesses 
up to their considerable potential. I know we can, and I believe 
that our 2013 performance provides some strong evidence.
First, and fundamentally, we earned $13.7 billion Š our largest 
pro˜t since the ˜nancial crisis. With most developed markets 
growing well below the levels that used to be taken for 
granted, and many emerging markets slowing considerably 
from their recent peaks, this result demonstrates the 
resiliency of our franchise and the talent of our people to 

perform even in a persistently challenging environment.
Letter to Shareholders
We were able to grow our revenues in the face of regulatory, 

legal and other headwinds. We managed our risk carefully 
throughout a volatile year, with markets on edge owing to the 
Federal Reserve™s announcement that it soon would begin to 
wind down its Quantitative Easing program.
Particularly in a tough revenue environment, expenses Š 
which are largely under our control Š are viewed as a proxy 
for management effectiveness. And I™m pleased that we hit 
our commitment in 2013 and realized $900 million in savings 
from our repositioning actions, which helped further curb 
 
our expenses.
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer
2We grew our overall loan portfolio in Citicorp by 6%. In 
particular, we met Š and exceeded Š a commitment made in 
2011 to lend $24 billion to U.S. small businesses over three 
years. With $9.1 billion lent in 2013 Š more than double the 
2009 level Š that brings the total to $26.6 billion to enable 
small businesses to start and expand operations, add jobs 
 and turn their passions into progress.
We also made good progress on several legacy issues. 
 We resolved some signi˜cant mortgage litigation, utilized 
$2.5 billion of our deferred tax assets, reduced Citi Holdings 

assets by a further 25% and cut Holdings™ annual loss in half.
These numbers helped show the capability of this franchise 
to generate capital. During 2013, we generated more than 
$20 billion in regulatory capital, ending the year with our 
Tier I Common ratio at an estimated 10.6% on a Basel III 
basis Š 60 basis points above the goal we set for ourselves 
at the beginning of the year. At the end of the year, our 
Supplementary Leverage Ratio stood at 5.4%. And, crucially, 
we achieved no objection from the Federal Reserve to our 

2013 capital plan.
I told you last year that execution of our strategy would be 
my primary focus. In 2013, we put in place key tools to help 
us achieve the most from our franchise. We created detailed, 
tough but realistic scorecards to judge the performance of 
more than 500 of the top leaders of our ˜rm. We sorted 
our 101 countries into four categories Š or ﬁbucketsﬂ Š to 
help us prioritize the commitment of our resources to those 
sectors and regions most important to our clients. And we 

announced three targets for 2015 to which we are holding 
ourselves accountable Š return on assets, return on tangible 
common equity and operating ef˜ciency Š and improved our 
performance across all of them in 2013.
We™ve shown that we can generate quality earnings. But 
our 2013 results also surprised us with a damaging example 
of how ethical failures can jeopardize everything we work 
for. We discovered that invoices that were paid through 
an accounts receivable ˜nancing program in Mexico were 

falsi˜ed, resulting in a $235 million reduction to our 2013 net 
income. While we have completed a rapid review of similar 
lending programs, we continue to investigate what took place 
in Mexico and are working to identify any areas where we 
need to strengthen our controls through stronger oversight or 
improved processes. We are pursuing every possible avenue 
to recover these funds and to punish the guilty Š inside and 
outside the ˜rm.
The ˜nancial impact of fraud can be calculated. The harm to 
our credibility is harder to gauge. Credibility is the currency 
that allows us to meet our goals. That™s true of clients, the 
core constituency we aim to serve every day; it™s true of 
regulators, who grant us our license to do business; it™s true 
of employees, whom we need to attract by making Citi the 
best possible place to work; and it™s true of our shareholders, 
whose trust we require to succeed and which we will continue 
to strive to earn.
I want you to know that I™ve made crystal clear to all our 
employees that I expect the very highest standards from each 
and every one of them. We are launching a comprehensive 
program Š including improved training and a continued 
focus on responsible ˜nance Š to support and enhance the 
institutional values that have served this company so well for 
more than 200 years.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘




˛

˝˜


˜˛
†“
˛
˜˚˛˜˚˜˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˜˘
˝˙˛

˚ˆ˝

ˇ˘ˇ

ˇ
˘ˆ˘
ˇ

“‘’€
3I know that Citi™s culture is robust and that the overwhelming 
majority of our people know right from wrong and strive to do 
the right thing every day, in all aspects of our work. But I also 
know that it takes only one person to jeopardize our credibility.
Looking ahead, we™ve set clear goals for 2014. We must 
continue on a path to meet our 2015 ˜nancial targets. We also 
hope to resolve more legacy issues this year, with the aim 
of putting the bulk of our ˜nancial crisis-era legal overhang 
behind us.
With Citi Holdings now comprising only 6% of our balance 
sheet, our focus has shifted from selling assets to reducing 
the drag that the remaining portfolio causes on our earnings. 
We expect to reduce the loss incurred in Holdings further 
this year, putting us closer to breakeven. Every dollar saved, 
of course, falls directly to the bottom line. And we expect to 
continue to utilize our deferred tax assets by generating 
 U.S. earnings.
In our core businesses, work proceeds to integrate and 
streamline our products and services to ensure that we 

provide a seamless experience across our offerings and 
regions. A monumental effort is under way to transform 
our Consumer business from what is, today, too much of an 
amalgamation of 36 local banks into one truly global bank. 
We™re consolidating platforms, processes and products, all with 
the goal of giving our customers a consistently remarkable 
experience wherever they live, work or travel and across all 
our product lines.
Letter to Shareholders
 In the Institutional Clients Group, aligning and integrating 
our legacy Markets businesses and our Investor Services and 
Direct Custody and Clearing activities will allow us to deliver 
a more comprehensive set of capabilities, as well as enable 
us to prioritize our resources more ef˜ciently, particularly 
around operations and technology. Citi is uniquely positioned 
to become the industry-leading integrated services platform 
as the business moves to adjust to more demanding capital, 
leverage and counterparty risk requirements.
We will continue to invest in our Treasury and Trade Solutions 
business, the backbone of our global network, while we 
capitalize on our focus on the payments side. This business is 
capital friendly and not easily replicable. It took us decades to 
build and remains the clear global industry leader.
˜˚˛˚˝˙
˜˚˛˝˙˛
˜˚ˆ˝ˇˆ
˜˚˙
˜˚ˆ˝ˆ˙
˜˚˘˝
˜ˆ˛
˜˝˚˘
˜˚˚˝ˆ


˙
˘
˚˛


ˆ˙˘

ˆ˚˙

ˆˇ
˙˝
ˆ˛˝˛
ˆ˛˝˚
ˆ˛
˝˙
˚˝ˆ
˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
†“
€
š
‡…


ˇ˘

—
‘
˜
˙…
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆ
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆ


˝

ˇ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˛

4To accomplish all this, we must build on what we put in place 
last year to take our execution to the next level.
We™ll focus on building the right client base: those institutions 
and consumers who best ˜t our business model and for 
whom we can create the most value. We™ll streamline and 
rationalize our systems and processes, striking the right 
balance between ef˜ciency-boosting standardization and the 
˚exibility and empowerment necessary for our people to best 
serve our clients. And we™ll look to save time and money by 
consolidating our operations in every city and country where 

we come to work, minimizing costly fragmentation. Much of 
the resources we save will be reinvested in our businesses 
where the greatest returns can be generated Š and, in 
particular, will be dedicated toward improving our technology 
and digital presence. Last year, we launched tablet and 
smartphone versions of two of our most successful platforms 
Š Citi Velocity
SM and CitiDirect BE
SM Š so that, today, traders 
and treasurers can do business from anywhere with a wireless 
connection. Combined with Smart Banking branches and other 
innovations in our Consumer Bank, we have established the 
core around which we can ful˜ll our aspiration to become the 
world™s digital bank.
Together, we have accomplished a great deal over the last 
several years. We™ve refocused the franchise, built the tools for 
execution and worked hard to rebuild our credibility. We still 
have more to do, but the foundation for future success has 

been built. We™ve accomplished a great deal Š and more than 
enough to begin to show what this franchise can do at its best.
Sincerely,
Michael L. Corbat
Chief Executive Of˜cer, Citigroup Inc.
Citi Bike
®Unlock, Ride, Enjoy and Return
When New York City set out to establish a public bike 
share program without expending public resources, 

Citi recognized a unique opportunity to support a 

groundbreaking initiative that would create a new, 

sustainable transportation network and enhance the lives 
 of New Yorkers, and so the Citi Bike
® program was born.
Since it launched in May 2013, the Citi Bike program 

has become the largest and fastest-growing bike share 

program in the U.S. and a familiar sight on city streets. 

Thousands of blue bicycles at several hundred stations 

around the city are available 24/7, 365 days a year 

through annual, weekly or daily passes. 
Citi Bike
® is the largest bike share program in the U.S. The system 
opened to the public in May 2013 with 330 stations and 6,000 bikes. 
The Citi Bike program is operated by NYC Bike Share.
Each station has a touchscreen kiosk, a map of the service 
area and surrounding neighborhood, and a docking system 

that releases bikes for rental with a card or key.
In 2013, Citi Bike
® riders took 6.3 million trips and 
traveled more than 11.5 million miles, far outpacing other 
major bike share cities. Parks & Trails New York honored 

Citi with the George W. Perkins Award for outstanding 

environmental leadership in helping to create the Citi 
Bike program.
ﬁIn enabling the creation of Citi Bike
®, Citi has shown that it is a leading supporter 
of innovative urban initiatives and a 
major contributor to New York City™s 
growth and progress.ﬂ
 Š Former New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg
5Global Consumer Banking
Citi™s Global Consumer Bank (GCB) serves 
 62 million clients in 36 countries with a 
strategic focus on markets and segments 
in which the bank™s unique global network, 
brand, and customer-centric products and 
services provide a competitive advantage. 
GCB aims to deliver a remarkable experience 
to clients through industry-leading products 

and services, next-generation retail formats 
 and world-class digital channels.
Operating across Citi™s four regions Š Asia Paci˜c; Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa; Latin America; and North America Š 
the GCB™s growth plan is aligned with Citi™s long-term strategy 
to harness for customers the dominant secular trends of 
globalization, urbanization and digitization. Well-positioned 
and well-diversi˜ed, we serve high credit quality, globally 
minded consumers in the world™s top cities.
GCB™s primary business lines are Credit Cards, Retail 
Banking, Mortgages and Commercial Banking, which together 
generate nearly half their revenues outside North America. 
As of December 31, 2013, these businesses held $332 billion 
in deposits, had $302 billion in loans and managed $168 
billion in assets. GCB operates approximately 3,730 branches 
in more than 700 cities worldwide, with a strong presence 
in 121 of the 150 cities that contribute a third of global gross 
domestic product growth.
In 2013, GCB generated $10.8 billion in pretax earnings, nearly 
half of Citicorp™s total. Revenue growth in the emerging 
markets Š especially in Latin America and Asia Š partly offset 
a decline in U.S. revenues resulting from the challenging 
economic environment. Globally, key business drivers re˚ect 
continued momentum: Consumer loans grew 2%, cards 
purchase sales increased 3%, assets under management 
rose 8% and average deposits were up 2%, with growth 
concentrated in checking and savings accounts.
Credit Cards
Citi is the world™s largest credit card issuer, with 142 million 
accounts, $365 billion in annual purchase sales and $150 billion 

in receivables across Citi Branded Cards and Citi Retail Services. 
Citi Branded Cards provides payment and credit solutions to 
consumers and small businesses in 34 countries. With more 
than 52 million accounts in circulation, the business had 
annual purchase sales of $290 billion and a loan portfolio 
 of $104 billion.
In 2013, Citi continued to deliver value, convenience and 
the power of our global network to cardmembers. Citi 
Prestige
® card, a global credit card built upon the bank™s 
unique relationships and capabilities worldwide, launched in 
Colombia, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and the 
U.S. The card offers exceptional rewards, including global 
bene˜ts, special offers and an annual relationship bonus. 
Further enhancing global value for clients, Citi launched 
 Hotel Privileges for Citi debit and credit card clients in Bahrain, 
the Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Russia, 
Spain, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. 
 In Poland
, the Citi Handlowy branch with Smart Banking technology in 
Katowice™s upscale Galeria Katowicka mall is the ˜rst in the city and is 

almost entirely paperless.
With more than 52 million accounts in circulation
, Citi Branded Cards provides payment and credit solutions to 

consumers and small businesses in 34 countries.
6Hotel Privileges provides special access to 1,000 luxury hotels 
 around the world and offers bene˜ts such as best available 
rates, complimentary breakfasts, free Internet access and 
 late checkout.
In the U.S., we continued to provide clients with improved 
features and bene˜ts. Citi enhanced the Citi ThankYou
® Preferred and Citi ThankYou Premier credit cards by 
offering cardmembers more reward points for dining out and 
entertainment purchases, chip technology to make purchases 

with ease around the world and access to exclusive events. 
Citi also expanded the ways ThankYou
® Rewards members 
can use their ThankYou Points, including the option to shop 

with a Rewards Account Number, a virtual credit card account 
number linked to their Citi
® credit card and ThankYou Rewards 
account, where MasterCard
® and Visa
® are accepted.
Through the Private Pass
® program, U.S. cardmembers had 
access to more than 10,000 events in 2013 across a range of 
interests, including sports, dining and music. In 2013, more 
than 6,000 music events were offered through the program.
Citi has partnered with American Airlines for more than 
25 years to offer Citi
®/AAdvantage
® credit cards to U.S. 
customers. Citi announced that beginning in March 2014, the 
Citi Executive
®/AAdvantage
® World Elite MasterCard
® will be the only U.S. credit card that offers full membership bene˜ts 

at the American Airlines Admirals Club
® airport lounges. 
Citi Executive
®/AAdvantage
® cardmembers will enjoy access 
to nearly 40 Admirals Club
® locations worldwide as well as 
access to select partner airport lounges.
Digital Innovations
 The Citibank
® for iPad global app launched in nine 
markets in 2013. The app uses the innovative design of 

Citi™s U.S. Citibank for iPad app, which since its release in 
2011 has won international awards and acclaim, ranging 
from a Forrester Research case study to an XCelent 
award from Celent as the best U.S. tablet banking app 
 for breadth of functionality and user experience.
 In the U.S., Citi launched Money
2SM for Health, a new 
multi-plan, multi-provider, consumer-centric patient 

payment solution designed to simplify and enhance the 
healthcare payment process for patients and providers 
alike. 
American Banker
 named Money
2 for Health a 
 Top Innovation of 2013.
 Citi Mobile® app was launched in an additional six 
markets in 2013, for a total number of 31 markets with a 
consumer banking mobile app.
 Citi introduced the Philippines™ ˜rst Visa payWave 
 
credit card, the breakthrough contactless credit card 
payment technology that can be up to three times 
faster than cash payments.
 Global Finance
 magazine named Citi Best Consumer 

Internet Bank in 13 countries, Best Consumer Internet 
Bank in Asia Paci˜c and Best in Mobile Banking in Asia.
 In Mexico, Banamex started a testing program to launch 
an innovative technology that guides clients through 
the digital self-service environment.
 In the United Arab Emirates, Citi™s E-Brokerage Š
 
a dynamic trading platform Š gives sophisticated 
investors the ability to trade directly online without 
needing to contact a broker.
Citi announced enhanced travel bene˜ts
 and exclusive 
access for cardmembers.
Citi introduced a number of innovative digital and mobile 

products in 2013
, advancing efforts to become the world™s 

leading digital bank.
7Advancing efforts to become the world™s leading digital 
bank, in 2013, Citi introduced a number of innovative digital 
and mobile products. In Mexico, Citi subsidiary Banamex 
introduced iAcepta Mobile, a card reader that can be attached 
to an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch device, making Banamex 
the ˜rst bank in the country to enable clients to use their 
debit and credit cards with chips through merchants™ mobile 
devices. iAcepta won the retail payments category at 
The 
Banker
 magazine™s Innovation in Technology and Transaction 
Banking Awards 2013. In India, Citi launched a fully integrated 

mobile payment solution that allows 320 million credit card 
clients to make payments through their debit and credit cards. 
In Latin America, the Citi Bene˜cios app Š a digital tool that 
gives Citi clients fast and easy access via their mobile devices 
to information about discounts and promotions from different 
retailers as well as from Citi branches and ATM locations Š 
launched in 11 countries. Both International Data Group and 
 PC World en Español
 recognized Citi Bene˜cios as Best 
Consumer Mobile App in Latin America.
Citi Retail Services provides consumer and commercial 
credit card products Š both private label and co-branded Š to 
national and regional retailers and their clients across North 
America. In addition, Retail Services delivers retail industry 

expertise and insights, including transaction data analytics 
and fully integrated marketing and loyalty programs, to help 
retailers expand and deepen customer relationships.
The business services 90 million accounts for iconic brands, 
including ExxonMobil, The Home Depot, Macy™s, Sears and 
Shell. In September 2013, Retail Services announced a new 
relationship with Best Buy, one of the world™s largest multi-
channel consumer electronics retailers. The acquisition and 
swift conversion of Best Buy™s U.S. credit card portfolio, which 
then totaled more than $7 billion in receivables, solidi˜ed Citi 
Retail Services™ position as a top provider of private label and 
co-branded card products to U.S. retailers and their clients.
In 2013, Citi Retail Services also extended its relationship 
with RadioShack, Staples and Sunoco; celebrated the 10-year 
anniversary of a partnership with The Home Depot and Sears; 
and announced a new relationship with Ross-Simons/Sidney 

Thomas Jewelers. Purchase sales were $75 billion during the 

year, with a loan portfolio totaling $46 billion.
Retail Banking
With branch locations concentrated in urban centers, and 
nearly three-quarters of 3,730 branches in emerging markets, 
Citibank™s footprint is unique among ˜nancial institutions.
Citibank serves a full range of consumer banking needs, 
including checking and savings accounts, loans, wealth 
management advice and small business services. In 2011, 
 Citi joined with the Small Business Administration to announce 
a three-year commitment to lend $24 billion to America™s 
small businesses, and by the end of 2013, Citi had surpassed 

that commitment by $2.6 billion.
Citi™s Banamex franchise serves 21 million clients in 
Mexico, where the bank has a leading position in retail 
banking, consumer credit, corporate and investment 
banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, wealth 
management, bank insurance, and mutual and pension 
 funds. In 2013, 
Global Finance
 magazine recognized 
 Banamex as Best Bank, Best Consumer Internet Bank and 
Global Consumer Banking
Citi™s Global Client advertising
 as seen in Miami, Florida: ﬁA Citi client anywhere 
is a Citi client everywhere.ﬂ
By the end of 2013
, Citi surpassed its three-year 

commitment with the Small Business Administration 

to lend $24 billion to America™s small businesses.
8Best Corporate/Institutional Internet Bank in Mexico. For the 
Latin America region, Banamex was honored as Best Online 
Treasury Services.
In 2013, Citibank optimized its branch footprint, further 
concentrating its presence in urban centers. Citi opened 

branches in key U.S. cities, including Chicago, Miami, New 
York and Washington, D.C., and its ˜rst ˚agship on the West 
Coast in Los Angeles. Citi Smart Banking branches, designed 
around technology that offers the ˜nest customer experience 
in the industry, were opened in many cities around the world, 

including Rio de Janeiro and Warsaw. Citi also was one of the 

˜rst two global banks approved to establish a presence in the 
Shanghai Free Trade Zone in China.
With the vast majority of client transactions occurring outside 
of branches, Citi pioneered a new distribution model in which 
a branch is just one touchpoint in a network that includes 
˚agships, traditional branches, kiosks, multi-functional 
ATMs and digital channels. In Malaysia, the Philippines and 
Singapore, Citi marked the global launch of Citibank Express 
next-generation ATM that allows clients to access nearly all 
the services available at a traditional branch.
In Asia Paci˜c, Citi and AIA Group Limited announced the 
largest bancassurance agreement ever signed. The agreement 

provides the opportunity to offer life insurance products 
in one of the world™s fastest-growing wealth management 
regions where af˚uent clients increasingly seek ˜nancial 
protection for their family and assets.
Citigold® wealth management provides access to investment 
and ˜nancial advisory services, including mutual funds, 
managed portfolios, stocks, bonds, insurance products and 
retirement solutions. Citigold service provides a personalized 
level of assistance, unique bene˜ts and global capabilities 
In the U.S.
, Citi Mortgage hosted a Road to Recovery mortgage 
assistance event in Arlington, Virginia, to support military service 

members and veterans as part of the Citi Salutes
SM program.
Inaugurated in 2013
, Brazil™s ˚agship Ipanema branch in 
 
Rio de Janeiro is the ˜rst with Citi™s Smart Banking technology 

and design in Latin America.
to clients worldwide. In 2013, 
The Asset
 magazine named Citi Best Wealth Manager in Asia, and 
Private Banker 
International
 named Citigold Private Client as Outstanding 
Wealth Management Service for the Af˚uent. 
Bank Investment 
Consultant
 named 10 Citigold Financial Advisors among the 
top advisors of 2013.
The Citi Mortgage business, which provides loans for home 
purchase and re˜nance transactions, originated $58 billion 
in new loans in 2013 in the U.S. The business continued to 
focus on deepening customer relationships by aligning with 

Citibank™s U.S. retail bank branches in major metropolitan 

areas. Citi Mortgage remained highly committed to foreclosure 
prevention, conducting its third consecutive Road to Recovery 
Tour, a series of events offering private counseling for clients 
whose ˜nancial dif˜culties affect the ability to make mortgage 
payments. The 2013 Road to Recovery Tour hosted 30 
homeowner assistance events in cities across the U.S., from 
Las Vegas and Miami to Boston and Minneapolis.
Citi Commercial Bank provides small and middle-market 
companies with global access to award-winning products 
from its institutional and consumer platforms. In 2013, Citi 
Commercial Bank enhanced its service to clients in more than 
100 cities worldwide. By taking advantage of its unparalleled 

global footprint, the Commercial Bank expanded its client base 
for companies operating in multiple countries and improved 
the client experience by reducing lending turnaround times 
by 38% while signi˜cantly increasing domestic and offshore 
assets. Citi Commercial Bank has been an important partner 
for companies as they continue to broaden their reach across 
key urban centers around the world.
9Institutional Clients Group
Citi™s Institutional Clients Group builds 
enduring relationships with clients by 
providing a full suite of strategic advisory 
and ˜nancing products to multinational 
and local corporations, ˜nancial and 
public sector institutions, governments, 
privately held businesses, and many 
of the world™s most successful and 

in˚uential individuals and families in more 
than 160 countries and jurisdictions.
Capital Markets Origination
Citi™s Capital Markets Origination business is focused 
on the capital-raising needs of our institutional clients, 
from inaugural issuances and exchanges to cross-border 
transactions and ˜rst-of-their-kind landmark structures. Citi 
is the ˜rst choice among issuers for clients™ underwriting 
needs owing to our unmatched global footprint and diverse 
range of ˜nancial products. Our track record of successfully 
executing in both buoyant and challenging market conditions 
is a testament to our unwavering commitment to provide 

the highest quality service for clients. Our structuring and 
execution expertise has established us as a leader in the 
equity capital markets, both in terms of innovation and 
proceeds raised, and has distinguished Citi as the clear choice 
 for debt underwriting, with excellence across a broad range 
 
of currencies and markets.
In an environment where new banking activity has been 
driven by global trends, our unique platform allowed us 
the best global and local market views of trends, risks, and 
issuer and investor requirements. In 2013, Citi led some of 
the most signi˜cant capital markets transactions. We served 
as structuring agent and lead bookrunner on a $927 million 
enhanced equipment trust certi˜cate with Japanese Operating 
Lease with Call Options (JOLCO) equity Š the ˜rst transaction 
of this type for British Airways Š that provided the debt 
˜nancing on 14 new Airbus and Boeing aircraft to be leased 

to British Airways. Utilizing our unique global capabilities, Citi 
was a lead underwriter on the highly successful, cross-border 
$1.46 billion initial public offering (IPO) and $974 million 
secondary equity offering for ING U.S., Inc. We were a joint 
bookrunner for Petrobras™ $11 billion, six-tranche offering Š the 
largest-ever bond offering by an emerging markets issuer and 
the second-largest bond offering of 2013; the largest Brazilian 
international bond offering; and the largest-ever oil and gas 
sector bond offering.
Citi also was joint bookrunner for Barclays™ £5.95 billion 
rights issue and served as joint global coordinator and joint 

bookrunner for VTB™s strategic equity and hybrid transactions. 
Corporate and Investment Banking
Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking franchises provide 
comprehensive relationship coverage service to ensure the 
best possible service and responsiveness to our clients. 
With our strong presence in many nations, we use our 
country, sector and product expertise to deliver Citi™s global 
capabilities to clients wherever they choose to compete.
For the sixth consecutive year
, Citi Š which provided funding for the revitalization 
of the Hunters View housing project in San Francisco Š was ranked ˜rst in 
Affordable 

Housing Finance
™s ranking of affordable housing lenders in the U.S.
Citi acted as ˜nancial advisor
 for the ˜nancing 

for Etisalat™s buildout of its 3G mobile network in 

Nigeria to help improve connectivity among an 

increasingly af˚uent and urbanizing population.
10Citi™s Corporate and Investment Banking client teams are 
organized by industry and by country. Each team is composed 
of two parts: Strategic Coverage Of˜cers focus on mergers 
and acquisitions and equity and related ˜nancing solutions. 
Corporate Bankers, in partnership with our Capital Markets 
specialists and with support from our Global Subsidiaries 
Group, deliver corporate banking and ˜nance services to 
global, regional and local clients.
In 2013, Citi served as the trusted advisor for several 
transformational transactions in the ˜nancial markets. 
 We were co-lead ˜nancial advisor to Sprint Nextel Corporation 
on its $36 billion merger with SoftBank Corporation, the 
largest outbound investment in Japan™s history. Citi also acted 
as ˜nancial advisor to Silver Lake Partners on the complex, 
joint (with Michael Dell) $21 billion acquisition of Dell Inc. 
 We were ˜nancial advisor to CNOOC Limited on its 
acquisition of Nexen for $18 billion, the largest-ever 
cross-border acquisition by a Chinese company. After 
successfully defending Elan Corporation plc against another 
pharmaceutical company™s $6 billion hostile offer, Citi acted 
as ˜nancial advisor to Elan on its $9 billion sale to Perrigo 
Company plc. 
Financial News
 awarded Citi the Most Improved 
Investment Bank of 2013.
Markets and Securities Services
Citi™s Markets and Securities Services business provides world-
class ˜nancial products and services as diverse as the needs 
of the thousands of corporations, institutions, governments 
and investors we serve.
 International Financing Review
 named Citi Best 
Derivatives House, Best Emerging Market Bond House, 
Best Credit Derivatives House and Best Latin America 
Bond House.
 Euromoney™
s Awards for Excellence named Citi Best 
Global Emerging Market Bank; Best Global Emerging 
Market Equity House; Best Bank in Asia and Africa; Best 
Investment Bank in Asia, India, the Philippines, Central and 
Eastern Europe, the Caribbean and Central America; Best 
Cash Management House in Africa and Latin America; Best 
M&A House in UAE and Spain; Best Debt House in Russia, 
Turkey and Chile; Best Flow House in Latin America; and 
Best Equity House in North America and India.
 Citi Private Bank was honored by 
The Financial Times
, The Banker
 and Professional Wealth Management
 as Best Private Bank for Customer Service for the 
second year in a row. The Society of Trust and Estate 
Practitioners named Citi its Private Banking Team 
of the Year. 
Private Banker International
 named Citi Outstanding Private Bank for Ultra-High-Net-Worth 
Clients and Outstanding Global Private Bank Asia 
Paci˜c and recognized Citi as a Highly Commended 
Outstanding Private Bank for North America and 
Outstanding Private Bank for Europe. Citi also received 
Euromoney
™s Best Private Banking Services in Latin 
America award. And 
The Asset
 named Citi Best Private 
Bank and Best Wealth Manager in Asia and Australia.
 FX Week
 magazine recognized Citi as Best Bank overall 
 as well as Best Bank for FX for Corporates, Forward FX, 
 FX Prime Brokerage, FX in North America, Latin 
American Currencies, Euro/Dollar, Dollar/Yen and 
e-Trading. 
Global Finance
 named Citi Best FX Bank 
 in North America and Latin America and Best 
 Derivatives Provider in Latin America.
Private Banker International
 named Citi Outstanding Private Bank for Ultra-High-
Net-Worth Clients and Outstanding Global Private Bank Asia Paci˜c, and Citi received 
Euromoney
™s Best Private Banking Services in Latin America award.
Citi Velocity
SM e for Education
 initiative 
donated a 
percentage of two months of institutional client FX 
transaction volumes executed through the Citi Velocity 
platform to six education-related nonpro˜ts around the world.
Institutional Clients Group
With trading ˚oors in more than 80 countries, we work 
to enrich the relationships, products and technology that 
de˜ne our market-making presence. The breadth, depth and 
strength of our sales and trading, distribution and research 
capabilities span a broad range of asset classes, currencies, 
sectors and products Š including equities, commodities, credit, 
futures, foreign exchange (FX), emerging markets, G10 rates, 
municipals, prime ˜nance and securitized markets. Our state-
of-the-art Citi Velocity
SM platform delivers electronic access to 
Citi™s global footprint and real-time information, giving clients 

unprecedented access to our capital markets intelligence and 
services across all product lines. Through our web, mobile 
and trading applications, clients can ˜nd Citi research and 
commentary and proprietary data and analytics; execute fast, 
seamless and stable foreign exchange and rates trades; and 
utilize our suite of sophisticated, post-trade analysis tools.
In 2013, 
Derivatives Week
 named Citi Global Derivatives House 
of the Year, and 
The Banker
 named Citi the Most Innovative 
Bank for Prime Brokerage, Equities, IPOs, Equity-Linked 
Products and Risk Management. 
Risk magazine recognized 
Citi as Client Clearing Service of the Year, and 
Energy Risk
 magazine named Citi Energy Risk Manager of the Year.
Our Investor Services and Direct Custody and Clearing 
businesses provide customized solutions that support the 

diverse investment and transaction strategies of investors 
and intermediaries worldwide. Offering a suite of investment 
administration, portfolio and fund services, trust and custody, 
and investment and ˜nancing solutions, this business 
helps clients meet the challenges of issuing, managing and 
distributing ˜nancial products and services in today™s complex 
and competitive marketplace. In 2013, Citi acquired ING™s 

Custody and Securities Services business in Central and 
Eastern Europe Š with •110 billion in assets under custody Š 
further strengthening our franchise in six important markets 
and adding Bulgaria to our proprietary network. Our Hedge 
and Private Equity Servicing business also surpassed $500 
billion in alternative assets under administration, af˜rming 
its leadership as one of the largest fund administrators in the 
alternative asset management industry. Our Issuer business 

expanded both our network and our product sets through 
our Hong Kong Common Depository by standardizing and 
enhancing securities settlements in emerging markets in 
response to changes in investor demands. 
Global Investor
 recognized Citi as Hedge Fund Administrator of the Year, while 
Global Finance
 named Citi Best Sub-Custodian Bank.
 The Asset 
magazine gave Citi the Triple A Asset Servicing award.
Private Banking
Citi operates one of the world™s global private banks, whose 
teamwork, commitment to service, and ability to see and seize 
opportunities for our clients set us apart. Our 800 Private 
Bankers act as trusted advisors to many of the world™s most 
successful and in˚uential individuals and families. The Citi 

Private Bank network of bankers and product specialists work 
in 51 of˜ces in 16 countries. 
Our comprehensive services are tailored to individuals and 
families, including entrepreneurs and business owners, 
single- and multi-family of˜ces, senior corporate executives, 
next-generation/inherited wealth, law ˜rms and attorneys. 
From banking and cash management to lending, investment 
strategies, and trust and wealth advisory services, we are 
Citi led an $825 million bond issuance
 by Ruwais Power 
Company for a newly constructed desalination and electricity 

generation project in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Citi arranged a £400 million and US$300 million ˜nancing
 for Brook˜eld 

Utilities UK and two subsidiaries to link new housing developments to existing 

gas and electricity networks across the United Kingdom.
12here to support our clients with a comprehensive range 
of services. Our goal is to deliver expertise and a premier 
level of service while helping grow, manage and preserve 
wealth. As we partner with our clients, we can provide global 
thinking informed by deep local insight and can help deliver 
the complete ˜nancial management strategies that today™s 
wealth requires.
In 2013, Citi began creating a new Private Bank experience that 
captures the evolved needs and expectations of our clients Š a 
Private Bank that is more open, transparent and cooperative. 

Our digital app, Citi Private Bank In View, will transform how 

clients and bankers connect and will make the client experience 
more personal and engaging than ever before.
Treasury and Trade Solutions
Citi™s Treasury and Trade Solutions (TTS) business provides 
integrated cash management and trade ˜nance services to 
multinational corporations, ˜nancial institutions and public 
sector organizations across the globe. With the industry™s 
most comprehensive suite of digital and mobile-enabled 
platforms, tools and analytics, TTS leads the way in delivering 
innovative and tailored solutions to its clients. Offerings 
include cash management, payments, receivables, liquidity 
management and investment services, working capital 

solutions, commercial and prepaid card programs, and 
 trade ˜nance.
In 2013, TTS continued to expand its industry-leading set of 
electronic tools for our largest clients, with 63 major clients 
leveraging our proprietary Global Statements and the TWIST 
Citi made history
 by becoming the ˜rst bank to be awarded both the Best 
Bank and Best Investment Bank in Asia from 
Euromoney
 magazine.
Citi created Innovation Labs 
in regions to facilitate 

co-solutioning with clients and establish centers of 

excellence for product development and global rollout.
Bank Services Billing electronic reporting platform across 85 
countries, with more than 50,000 detailed account statements 
delivered. Additionally, 2013 saw the rollout of Interactive 
Solutions, a new product that allows users to visualize the 
breadth of TTS client transaction data by mapping the global 
supply chains of corporate clients, overlaid with Citi™s internal 
risk ratings and available credit facilities. The result is a 
structural and scalable way for clients to gain ef˜ciencies in 
their ˜nancial operations by seeing and taking advantage of 
incremental trade ˜nance and working capital opportunities.
In 2013, Citi launched the CitiDirect BE
SM Tablet, a new 
app for iPad devices that provides visibility into important 
transactional and ˜nancial information, supporting decision 
making and business management for treasury and ˜nance 
executives. Developed in the Citi Innovation Lab Dublin, 
this product enables executives to monitor their company™s 
global cash position and payments activity. With a few 
taps, clients can drill down onto a map or a graph to see 
the resulting balances and con˜rm execution of ˜nancial 
strategies. Collectively, CitiDirect BE Mobile and Tablet 
surpassed $113 billion in total transaction value processed 
across 90 countries in 16 languages and added key mobile 
functionalities such as Citi Supplier Finance, Trade Advisor 

and CitiManager® Mobile. The proprietary client survey 
 by Greenwich Associates recognized Citi in 2013 with a 
 #1 ranking in the Online Services Benchmarking Study.
13Citizenship
Citi strives always to create value for our 
clients, shareholders and the communities 
we serve. We reinforce our commitment 
to Responsible Finance
® and ˜nancial 
inclusion with innovative business 
endeavors, through robust philanthropic 
investments, and by recruiting and 
supporting a diverse workforce Š because 
being a good corporate citizen starts with 
operating responsibly.
In 2013, Citi was named the Industry Group Sustainability 
Leader for the Diversi˜ed Financials sector in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) Š the ˜rst global index to track 
the ˜nancial performance of the leading sustainability-driven 
companies worldwide. This marked the 12th consecutive year 
Citi was named to both the DJSI World and North America 
indices and the ˜rst time Citi was named a sector leader. 
 And for the 11th consecutive year, Citi was included as a 
component of the FTSE4Good Index, which objectively 
measures the performance of companies that meet globally 

recognized corporate responsibility standards.
Financial InclusionAs a ˜nancial institution, Citi recognizes a special 
responsibility to help reach the world™s 2.5 billion people with 
no access to ˜nancial services. Through Citi Micro˜nance, 
Citi Community Development and in partnership with the 
Citi Foundation, we work across business lines and with 
community groups, governments and institutions to develop 

innovative, measurable and replicable initiatives that broaden 
access for historically underserved communities. By investing 
capital and expertise, we work with partners to: 
 Help microentrepreneurs and small business owners start 
and sustain businesses that create livelihoods for their 
family and neighbors;
 Enable young people to receive quality education and the 
tools needed to become successful adults;
 Help consumers with ˜nancial education and access to 

appropriate products and services that enable them to build 
assets, manage their money and weather setbacks; and
 Finance affordable housing and community infrastructure 
projects that create a solid foundation for ˜nancial mobility.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation™s Business Civic 

Leadership Center named Citi and the Citi Foundation winners 
in two categories in the 2013 Corporate Citizenship Awards: 
the Best Economic Empowerment Program award for our 
efforts to invest in and advance entrepreneurship around 
the world and, together with the National Community Tax 

Coalition, the Best Partnership award for promoting college 
success in the United States. Citi Community Development 
and the City and County of San Francisco also received the 
2013 Excellence Award for Public-Private Partnerships from 
the U.S. Conference of Mayors, recognizing the cross-sector 
collaboration on Kindergarten to College, the nation™s ˜rst 
universal college savings program for children.
In Haiti, Citi obtained LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) certi˜cation for a new of˜ce in 
 
Port-au-Prince, which is the ˜rst in the country to be designed 
 and built according to the highest environmental standards.
Citi volunteers in Guatemala 
pitched in on Global Community Day to 

renovate a school and playground in the town of Parajbey in the state 

of Chimaltenango.
14Sustainability
Citi™s commitment to sustainability in our own operations and 
with our clients is based on three pillars:
 Managing the environmental footprint of our own global 
operations and supply chain;
 Evaluating the environmental and social risk associated with 

projects we ˜nance; and
 Developing business opportunities with our clients to 
address critical environmental issues.
We support solutions that address climate change, water 
scarcity, declining biodiversity, human rights and other 
important challenges.
For our leadership in environmental ˜nance and sustainable 
operations, in 2013, Citi was named the World™s Greenest Bank 
by 
Bloomberg Markets
 magazine.
A Diverse Workforce 
A global company needs an equally global workforce. Citi™s 
support for our talented employees helps our people grow 
professionally, make meaningful contributions and develop 
pride in one™s work. The distinct perspectives of our team 
members bring added value to our clients and customers, 
and Citi™s strong tradition of volunteerism ensures that our 

collective passion and talents are put to use both within and 
outside the workplace.
For a more in-depth look at our work in these areas, please 
 be sure to access Citi™s 2013 
Global Citizenship Report
 at http://citizenship.citigroup.com.
2013 Highlights
 Citi and the U.S. Overseas Private Investment 

Corporation announced up to $200 million in ˜nancing 
to aid large corporations around the world in their 
efforts to include micro and small enterprises as 
business and supply chain clients.
 The Citi Foundation, the Center for Financial Inclusion 

at Accion and Visa Inc. launched the global Financial 
Inclusion 2020 campaign, an initiative to accelerate 
˜nancial inclusion by uniting the private sector, 
governments, non-governmental organizations and 

other parties to develop a comprehensive strategy to 

achieve widespread ˜nancial inclusion by 2020.
 In the U.S., more than 150 entrepreneurs entered the 

inaugural Citi Salutes
SM program: Realizing Your Dream 
Business Competition, a call for military veterans to 
submit a business plan in the hope of receiving seed 
funding. The competition is co-sponsored by the Citi 
Foundation and the Institute for Veterans and Military 
Families at Syracuse University.
 Citi was the ˜rst bank to construct Leadership in Energy 

and Environmental Design (LEED) certi˜ed facilities in 

Haiti, Honduras and Venezuela and also opened its ˜rst 
LEED certi˜ed facility in Zambia.
 Ninety-two employee af˜nity networks with 14,000 

members enrich work life in 35 locations around the 
world and offer opportunities for networking, mentoring, 
coaching and community involvement.
 During Citi™s annual Global Community Day in 2013, 

more than 66,000 Citi employees, friends and family 
members volunteered with more than 480 community 
organizations at 1,200 events in 95 countries and 
 473 cities around the world.
In the Philippines
, 870 Citi volunteers helped clean up a bird 
sanctuary at Freedom Island, Metro Manila™s last remaining 

wetland, on Global Community Day.
Citi advised client Abengoa
 on the placement of $300 million 

in tax equity ˜nancing for its Solana Solar project, the ˜rst solar 

plant in the U.S. with thermal storage.
15citi.com/progress
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˜˜

˝˚˛ˆ˛˛ˆ

ˆ˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˛˘ˆˆ˛
˛˝˝ˆ˚ˇ˙˛ˆ˙
˛˝
˛˚ˇ†˛
“˝ˆ˙˛
˝†˙˙˝ˆ‘˛
˛˚˚˛˙’ˆ˝˝†˛
˛˝˚˛˝ˆ˛
˛˚˚˛˝˚€˛“‘˛

’˚˚˛
˛˝’˚˝ˆˇ˛

˚‘˛’
˛
•†…˙

—ˆ
This page intentionally left blank.
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWASHINGTON, D.C. 20549FORM 10-KANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013Commission file number 1-9924Citigroup Inc.(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of  incorporation or organization)52-1568099 (I.R.S. Employer  Identification No.)399 Park Avenue, New York, NY (Address of principal executive offices)10022 (Zip code)(212) 559-1000 (Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: See Exhibit 99.01Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: noneIndicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
 Yes
  No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes
  No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data 
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes
  No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference 

in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting 

company. See the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule
 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes
  No The aggregate market value of Citigroup Inc. common stock held by non-affiliates of Citigroup Inc. on June 30, 2013 was approximately $145.7 billion.Number of shares of Citigroup Inc. common stock outstanding on January 31, 2014: 3,036,458,909Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant™s proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held 

on April 22, 2014, are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III.Available on the web at www.citigroup.com
2FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEXItem NumberPagePart I1.Business ........................4Œ35, 39, 136Œ140, 143Œ144, 172, 314Œ3161A.Risk Factors
 .....................56Œ681B.Unresolved Staff Comments .........Not Applicable2.Properties .......................3163.Legal Proceedings ................3164.Mine Safety Disclosures
 ............Not ApplicablePart II5.Market for Registrant™s Common 
Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, 

and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities .......................152, 179, 312,317Œ318, 3206.Selected Financial Data ............10Œ117.Management™s Discussion and 

Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations ..............6Œ41, 69Œ1357A.Quantitative and Qualitative 
Disclosures About Market Risk
 ......69Œ135, 173Œ175,200Œ233, 240Œ2958.Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data
 ...............148Œ3139.Changes in and Disagreements with 
Accountants on Accounting and 
Financial Disclosure
 ...............Not Applicable9A.Controls and Procedures ...........141Œ1429B.Other Information .................Not ApplicablePart III10.Directors, Executive Officers and
 
Corporate Governance
 .............319Œ320, 322*11.Executive Compensation ...........**12.Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management 
and Related Stockholder Matters ....***13.Certain Relationships and Related 
Transactions and Director
 
Independence ....................****14.Principal Accountant Fees and
 
Services
 ........................*****Part IV15.Exhibits and Financial Statement 
Schedules .......................˜˙





˙

…
˙˜˜˙
˙
”ˆ

…
˙˜˜˜˙˙

˙
…
˙˜˜˜˜˙”

˙
…
˙˜˜˜˜˜˙•ˆ˙

…
˙3
CITIGROUP'S 2013 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
OVERVIEW
4
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS 
OF OPERATIONS
6
Executive Summary
6
Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data
10
SEGMENT AND BUSINESSŠINCOME (LOSS) 
AND REVENUES
12
CITICORP
15
Global Consumer Banking
16
North America Regional Consumer Banking
18
EMEA Regional Consumer Banking
20
Latin America Regional Consumer Banking
22
Asia Regional Consumer Banking
24
Institutional Clients Group
26
Securities and Banking
27
Transaction Services
30
Corporate/Other
32
CITI HOLDINGS
33
BALANCE SHEET REVIEW
36
OFF-BALANCE-SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
40
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
41
CAPITAL RESOURCES
42
Current Regulatory Capital Guidelines
42
Basel III
47
Regulatory Capital Standards Developments
51
Tangible Common Equity and Tangible Book Value Per Share
55
RISK FACTORS
56
MANAGING GLOBAL RISK
69
Risk ManagementŠOverview
69
Risk Management Organization
Risk Aggregation and Stress Testing
72
Risk Capital
72
Funding and Liquidity), Operational, Country
 
and Cross-Border Risk Sections
73
FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS FOR 
DERIVATIVES AND FAIR VALUE OPTION 
LIABILITIES
132
CREDIT DERIVATIVES
133
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
AND
 
136
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
141
MANAGEMENT™S ANNUAL REPORT ON 
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL 
REPORTING
142
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
143
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠINTERNAL 
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
145
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED 
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠ
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
146
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES TABLE 
OF CONTENTS
147
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
148
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
155
FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT
313
SUPERVISION, REGULATION AND OTHER
314
Supervision and Regulation
314
Disclosure Pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran 
Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act
315
Customers
316
Competition
316
Properties
316
Legal Proceedings
316
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY, 
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES, 
DIVIDENDS
317
CORPORATE INFORMATION
319
Citigroup Executive Officers
319
CITIGROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS
322
69
M
a
n
a
g
i
n
g
 
G
l
o
b
a
l
 
R
i
s
k
 
I
n
e
x
Š
C
r
e
d
i
t
,
 
M
a
r
k
e
t
 
(
I
n
c
l
u
d
i
n
g
 
SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES
d
4OVERVIEWCitigroup™s history dates back to the founding of Citibank in 1812. Citigroup™s original corporate predecessor was incorporated in 1988 under 
the laws of the State of Delaware. Following a series of transactions over a 
number of years, Citigroup Inc. was formed in 1998 upon the merger of 
Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc.Citigroup is a global diversified financial services holding company, whose 
businesses provide consumers, corporations, governments and institutions 
with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer 
banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, 
transaction services and wealth management. Citi has approximately 
200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries 
and jurisdictions.At December 31, 2013, Citi had approximately 251,000 full-time employees, compared to approximately 259,000 full-time employees at 
December 31, 2012.Citigroup currently operates, for management reporting purposes, via two primary business segments: Citicorp, consisting of Citi™s 
Global Consumer 
Banking businesses and Institutional Clients Group; and Citi Holdings, 
consisting of businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined 

are not central to its core Citicorp businesses. For a further description of the 
business segments and the products and services they provide, see ﬁCitigroup 
Segmentsﬂ below, ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ and Note 3 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Throughout this report, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and ﬁthe Companyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Additional information about Citigroup is available on Citi™s website 
at www.citigroup.com
. Citigroup™s recent annual reports on Form 10-K, 

quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, proxy statements, as well as other filings 
with the SEC, are available free of charge through Citi™s website by clicking 

on the ﬁInvestorsﬂ page and selecting ﬁAll SEC Filings.ﬂ The SEC™s website 

also contains current reports, information statements, and other information 
regarding Citi at www.sec.gov
.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements to conform to the current period™s presentation. For information 

on certain recent such reclassifications, see Citi™s Forms 8-K furnished to the 

SEC on May 17, 2013 and August 30, 2013.Please see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ and ﬁForward-Looking Statementsﬂ below for a discussion of the most significant 
risks and uncertainties that could impact Citigroup™s 

businesses, financial condition and results of operations.5As described above, Citigroup is managed pursuant to the following segments:CITIGROUP SEGMENTSGlobal ConsumerBanking (GCB)InstitutionalClientsGroup* (ICG)Corporate/OtherRegional Consumer Banking (RCB) in:North AmericaEMEALatin AmericaAsiaConsisting of:  Retail banking, local commercial banking and branch-based financial advisors-  Residential real estate
-  Asset management in Latin America  Citi-branded cards in North America, 
EMEA, Latin America and Asia  Citi retail services in 
North AmericaSecurities and Banking-  Investment banking-  Corporate lending-  Fixed income and 
equity markets 

(including prime 

brokerage)-  Fixed income and 

equity research- Private Bank Transaction Services
-  Treasury and trade 

solutions-  Securities and fund 

services- Treasury
-  Operations and 
technology-  Global staff 
 functions and 
 other corporate 

expenses-  Discontinued 
operationsCiti Holdings-  North America Consumer loans, 
including Consumer 
loans originated by Citi™s 

legacy CitiFinancial North 

America business-  Certain international 

consumer lending 

(including Western 
Europe retail banking 
and cards and Japan 

Consumer Finance)-  Consumer portfolios of 
securities, loans and 
other assets-  Certain retail alternative 
investmentsCiticorp*   Effective in the first quarter of 2014, certain business activities within 
Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
 will be realigned and aggregated as 
Banking and Markets and Securities Services
 components within the ICG segment. The change is due to the realignment of the management structure within the 
ICG segment and will have no impact on any total segment-level information. Citi intends to 

release a revised Quarterly Financial Data Supplement reflecting this realignment prior to the release of first quarter of 2014 earnings information.
The following are the four regions in which Citigroup operates. The regional results are fully reflected in the segment results above. 
North AmericaEurope, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)Latin AmericaAsiaCITIGROUP REGIONS(1)(1) North America includes the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, 
Latin America
 includes Mexico, and 
Asia includes Japan.
6MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSEXECUTIVE SUMMARYOverview2013ŠSteady Progress on Execution Priorities and Strategy 
Despite Continued Challenging Operating Environment
2013 represented a continued challenging operating environment for 
Citigroup in several respects, including:changing expectations regarding the Federal Reserve Board™s tapering of quantitative easing and the impact of this uncertainty on the markets, 
trading environment and customer activity;the increasing costs of legal settlements across the financial services 
industry as Citi continued to work through its legacy legal issues; anda continued low interest rate environment.These issues significantly impacted Citi™s results of operations, particularly 
during the second half of 2013. Despite these challenges, however, Citi made 
progress on its execution priorities as identified in early 2013, including:Efficient resource allocation, including disciplined expense managementŠDuring 2013, Citi completed the significant repositioning 
actions announced in the fourth quarter of 2012, which resulted in 
the exit of markets that do not fit Citi™s strategy and contributed to the 
reduction in its operating expenses year-over-year (see discussion below).Continued focus on the wind down of Citi Holdings and getting Citi 
Holdings closer to ﬁbreak evenﬂŠCiti Holdings™ assets declined by 
$39 billion, or 25%, during 2013, and the net loss for this segment 
improved by approximately 49% (see discussion below). Citi also was able 
to resolve certain of its legacy legal issues during 2013, including entering 
into agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac relating to residential 
mortgage representation and warranty repurchase matters.Utilization of deferred tax assets (DTAs)ŠCiti utilized approximately 
$2.5 billion of its DTAs during 2013, including $700 million in the 
fourth quarter.While making good progress on these initiatives in 2013, Citi expects the operating environment in 2014 to remain challenging. Short-term interest rates likely will remain low for some time, and thus spread compression 
could continue to impact most of Citi™s major geographies during the 

year. (As used throughout this Form 10-K, spread compression refers to 

the reduction in net interest revenue as a percentage of loans or deposits, 
as applicable, driven by either lower yields on interest-earning assets or 
higher costs to fund such assets, or a combination thereof). Given the 
current litigation and regulatory environment, Citi expects its legal and 
related expenses will likely remain elevated in 2014. There continues to 
be uncertainty regarding tapering by the Federal Reserve Board and its 
impact on the markets, including the emerging markets, and global trading 
environment. In addition, despite an improved economic environment in 
2013, there continues to be questions about the sustainability and pace of 
ongoing improvement in various markets. Finally, Citi continues to face 

significant regulatory changes, uncertainties and costs in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates. For a more detailed discussion of 
these and other risks that could impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations 

and financial condition during 2014, see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ below.
Despite these ongoing challenges, however, Citi remains highly focused 
on the continued execution of the priorities discussed above and its strategy, 

which continues to be to wind down Citi Holdings as soon as practicable in 
an economically rational manner and leverage its unique global network to:be a leading provider of financial services to the world™s largest multi-national corporations and investors; andbe the preeminent bank for the emerging affluent and affluent consumers 
in the world™s largest urban centers.2013 Summary ResultsCitigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $13.7 billion and diluted earnings per share 
of $4.35 in 2013, compared to $7.5 billion and $2.44 per share, respectively, 
in 2012. In 2013, results included a credit valuation adjustment (CVA) 
on derivatives (counterparty and own-credit), net of hedges, and debt 
valuation adjustment (DVA) on Citi™s fair value option debt of a pretax loss 
of $342 million ($213 million after-tax) as Citi™s credit spreads tightened 
during the year, compared to a pretax loss of $2.3 billion ($1.4 billion 
after-tax) in 2012. Results in the third quarter of 2013 also included a 
$176 million tax benefit, compared to a $582 million tax benefit in the 
third quarter of 2012, each of which related to the resolution of certain 
tax audit items and were recorded in Corporate/Other. In addition, 2013 
results included a $189 million after-tax benefit related to the divestiture 
of Credicard, Citi™s non-Citibank branded cards and consumer finance 
business in Brazil (Credicard), recorded in Corporate/Other (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citigroup™s 2012 results included 
a pretax loss of $4.6 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the sale of 
minority investments (for additional information, see ﬁCorporate/Otherﬂ below), as well as approximately $1.0 billion of fourth quarter 2012 pretax 
repositioning charges ($653 million after-tax).Excluding the items above, Citi™s net income was $13.5
 billion, or $4.30 per diluted share in 2013, up 11% compared to $11.9 billion, or $3.86 
per share, in the prior year, as higher revenues, lower operating expenses and 

lower net credit losses were partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve 
release and a higher effective tax rate in 2013 (see Note 9 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements). (Citi™s results of operations excluding the impact 

of CVA/DVA, the impact of the Credicard divestiture, the impact of minority 

investments, the repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the 
impact of the tax benefits, each as discussed above, are non-GAAP financial 
measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results of operations excluding 
these impacts provides a more meaningful depiction of the underlying 
fundamentals of its businesses.)Citi™s revenues, net of interest expense, were $76.4
 billion in 2013, up 10% versus the prior year. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of minority 

investments in 2012, revenues were $76.7 billion, up 1%, as revenues in 
Citi Holdings increased 22% compared to the prior year, while revenues in 
7Citicorp were broadly unchanged. Net interest revenues of $46.8 billion were unchanged versus the prior year, largely driven by continued spread 

compression in Transaction Services
 in Citicorp, offset by improvements in 
Citi Holdings, principally reflecting lower funding costs. Excluding CVA/DVA 

and the impact of minority investments in 2012, non-interest revenues of 
$29.9 billion were up 2% from the prior year, principally driven by higher 

revenues in Securities and Banking, Latin America Regional Consumer 
Banking (RCB) and Transaction Services
 in Citicorp, as well as the 
absence of repurchase reserve builds for representation and warranty claims 
in Citi Holdings. The increase was partially offset by a decline in mortgage 
origination revenues, due to significantly lower U.S. mortgage refinancing 
activity in North America RCB, particularly in the second half of 2013.Operating ExpensesCitigroup expenses decreased 3% versus the prior year to $48.4 billion. 
In 2013, Citi incurred legal and related costs of $3.0 billion, compared 
to $2.8 billion in the prior year. Excluding legal and related costs, the 
repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the impact of 
foreign exchange translation into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes (FX 
translation), which lowered reported expenses by approximately $600 million 
in 2013 compared to 2012, operating expenses remained relatively 
unchanged at $45.4 billion compared to $45.5 billion in the prior year. 
(Citi™s results of operations excluding the impact of FX translation are non-
GAAP financial measures. Citigroup believes the presentation of its results 
of operations excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful 
depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its businesses impacted by 
FX translation.)Citicorp™s expenses were $42.5
 billion, down 5% from the prior year, 
primarily reflecting efficiency savings and lower legal and related costs 
and repositioning charges, partially offset by volume-related expenses 
and ongoing investments in the businesses. In addition, as disclosed on February 28, 2014. Citicorp™s expenses in the fourth quarter of 2013
 were 
impacted as a result of a fraud discovered in Banco Nacional de Mexico 
(Banamex), a Citi subsidiary in Mexico. The fraud increased fourth quarter 
of 2013 operating expenses in Transaction Services
 by an estimated 
$400 million, with an offset to compensation expense of approximately 
$40 million associated with the Banamex variable compensation plan. 
For further information, see ﬁInstitutional Clients GroupŠTransaction 

Servicesﬂ below and Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citi Holdings expenses increased 13% year-over-year to $5.9
 billion, primarily due to higher legal and related expenses, partially offset by the 
continued decline in assets and the resulting decline in operating expenses.Credit Costs and Allowance for Loan Losses
Citi™s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims of 

$8.5 billion declined 25% from the prior year. Net credit losses of $10.5 billion 

were down 26% from 2012. Consumer net credit losses declined 27% to 

$10.3 billion, reflecting improvements in the North America mortgage 

portfolio within Citi Holdings, as well as North America Citi-branded cards 

and Citi retail services portfolios in Citicorp. Corporate net credit losses 

decreased 10% year-over-year to $201 million, driven primarily by continued 

credit improvement in Securities and Banking in Citicorp.The net release of allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments was $2.8 billion in 2013, 27% lower than 2012. Citicorp™s 

net reserve release declined 66% to $736 million, primarily due to a lower 
reserve release in North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services 
and volume-related loan loss reserve builds in international Global Consumer Banking (GCB). Citi Holdings net reserve release increased 
27% to $2.0 billion, substantially all of which related to the North America mortgage portfolio. $2.6 billion of the $2.8 billion net reserve release related 
to Consumer lending, with the remainder applicable to Corporate.Citigroup™s total allowance for loan losses was $19.6
 billion at year-end 
2013, or 2.98% of total loans, compared to $25.5 billion, or 3.92%, at the 
end of the prior year. The decline in the total allowance for loan losses 

reflected the continued wind down of Citi Holdings and overall continued 
improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolios.The Consumer allowance for loan losses was $17.1 billion, or 4.35% of total Consumer loans, at year-end 2013, compared to $22.7
 billion, or 5.57% 
of total loans, at year-end 2012. Total non-accrual assets fell to $9.4
 billion, 
a 22% reduction compared to year-end 2012. Corporate non-accrual loans 

declined 18% to $1.9 billion, while Consumer non-accrual loans declined 
23% to $7.0 billion, both reflecting continued credit improvement.CapitalCitigroup™s Tier 1 Capital and Tier 1 Common ratios were 13.7% and 12.6% 
as of December 31, 2013, respectively, compared to 14.1% and 12.7% as 
of December 31, 2012. Citi™s estimated Tier 1 Common ratio under Basel 
III was 10.6% at year-end 2013, up from an estimated 8.7% at year-end 
2012. Citigroup™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio for 
the fourth quarter 2013 was 5.4%. (For additional information on Citi™s 
estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio, Supplementary Leverage ratio and 
related components, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ and ﬁCapital 
Resourcesﬂ below.)8CiticorpCiticorp net income increased 11% from the prior year to $15.6 billion. The 
increase largely reflected a lower impact of CVA/DVA and lower repositioning 
charges, partially offset by higher provisions for income taxes. CVA/DVA, 
recorded in Securities and Banking, was a negative $345 million in 
2013, compared to negative $2.5 billion in the prior year (for a summary 
of CVA/DVA by business within Securities and Banking for 2013 and 
comparable periods, see ﬁInstitutional Clients Groupﬂ below). Results in 
the third quarter of 2013 also included the $176 million tax benefit in 2013, 
compared to the $582 million tax benefit in the third quarter of 2012, and 
the $189 million after-tax benefit related to the divestiture of Credicard. 
Citicorp™s full year 2012 results included a pretax loss of $53 million 
($34 million after-tax) related to the sale of minority investments as well as 
$951 million of pretax repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012 
($604 million after-tax).Excluding these items, Citicorp™s net income was $15.4
 billion, down 1% from the prior year, as lower operating expenses and lower net credit 

losses were largely offset by a lower net loan loss reserve release and a higher 
effective tax rate in 2013.Citicorp revenues, net of interest expense, increased 3% from the prior year to $71.8 billion. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of minority investments, 

Citicorp revenues were $72.2 billion in 2013, relatively unchanged from 
2012. GCB revenues of $38.2 billion declined 2% versus the prior year. 
North 
America GCB revenues declined 6% to $19.8 billion, and international GCB revenues (consisting of Asia RCB, Latin America RCB and EMEA RCB) 
increased 1% year-over-year to $18.4
 billion. Excluding the impact of FX 
translation, international GCB revenues rose 3% year-over-year, driven by 

7% revenue growth in Latin America RCB, partially offset by a 1% revenue 
decline in both EMEA RCB and Asia RCB. Securities and Banking revenues 
were $23.0 billion in 2013, up 15% from the prior year. Excluding CVA/DVA, 

Securities and Banking revenues were $23.4 billion, or 4% higher than 
the prior year. 
Transaction Services
 revenues were $10.6 billion, down 
1% from the prior year, but relatively unchanged excluding the impact 

of FX translation (for the impact of FX translation on 2013 results of 
operations for each of EMEA RCB, Latin America RCB, Asia RCB and 
Transaction Services
, see the table accompanying the discussion of each 
respective business™ results of operations below). Corporate/Other revenues, excluding the impact of minority investments, increased to $77 million from 
$17 million in the prior year, mainly reflecting hedging
 gains.In North America RCB, the revenue decline was driven by lower mortgage origination revenues due to the significant decline in U.S. mortgage 
refinancing activity, particularly in the second half of the year, partially 

offset by higher revenues in Citi retail services, mostly driven by the Best 
Buy portfolio acquisition in the third quarter of 2013. North America RCB average deposits of $166 billion grew 8% year-over-year and average retail 

loans of $43 billion grew 3%. Average card loans of $107
 billion declined 
2%, driven by increased payment rates resulting from ongoing consumer 
deleveraging, while card purchase sales of $240 billion increased 3% versus 
the prior year. For additional information on the results of operations of 
North America RCB for 2013, see ﬁGlobal Consumer BankingŠNorth 
America Regional Consumer Bankingﬂ below.
Year-over-year, international 
GCB average deposits declined 2%, while average retail loans increased 6%, investment sales increased 15%, average 
card loans increased 3%, and international card purchase sales increased 
7%, all excluding Credicard and the impact of FX translation. The decline 
in Asia RCB revenues, excluding the impact of FX translation, reflected the 
continued impact of spread compression, regulatory changes in certain 
markets and the ongoing repositioning of Citi™s franchise in Korea. For 

additional information on the results of operations of Asia RCB for 2013, see ﬁGlobal Consumer BankingŠAsia Regional Consumer Bankingﬂ below.
In Securities and Banking, fixed income markets revenues of $13.1 billion, excluding CVA/DVA, declined 7% from the prior year, primarily 

reflecting industry-wide weakness in rates and currencies, partially offset 
by strong performance in credit-related and securitized products and 
commodities. Equity markets revenues of $3.0 billion in 2013, excluding 
CVA/DVA, were 22% above the prior year driven primarily by market share 

gains, continued improvement in cash and derivative trading performance 
and a more favorable market environment. Investment banking revenues 
rose 8% from the prior year to $4.0 billion, principally driven by higher 
revenues in equity underwriting and advisory, partially offset by lower debt 

underwriting revenues. Lending revenues of $1.2 billion increased 40% from 
the prior year, driven by lower mark-to-market losses on hedges related to 

accrual loans due to less significant credit spread tightening versus 2012. 
Excluding the mark-to-market on hedges related to accrual loans, core 
lending revenues decreased 4%, primarily due to increased hedge premium 
costs and moderately lower loan balances, partially offset by higher spreads. 
Private Bank revenues of $2.5 billion increased 4% from the prior year, 

excluding CVA/DVA, with growth across all regions and products, particularly 

in managed investments and capital markets. For additional information 
on the results of operations of Securities and Banking for 2013, see 
ﬁInstitutional Clients GroupŠSecurities and Bankingﬂ below.
In Transaction Services
, growth from higher deposit balances, trade loans and fees from increased market volumes was offset by continued 
spread compression. Excluding the impact of FX translation, Securities and 
Fund Services revenues increased 4%, as growth in settlement volumes and 
assets under custody were partially offset by spread compression related to 
deposits. Treasury and Trade Solutions revenues decreased 1% excluding 

the impact of FX translation, as the ongoing impact of spread compression 
globally was partially offset by higher balances and fee growth. For additional 

information on the results of operations of Transaction Services
 for 2013, see ﬁInstitutional Clients GroupŠTransaction Services
ﬂ below.
Citicorp end-of-period loans increased 6% year-over-year to $573
 billion, with 2% growth in Consumer loans and 11% growth in Corporate loans.9Citi HoldingsCiti Holdings™ net loss was $1.9 billion in 2013 compared to a $6.5 billion net 
loss in 2012. The decline in the net loss year-over-year was primarily driven 
by the absence of the 2012 pretax loss of $4.7 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) 
related to the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture (MSSB). Excluding 
the 2012 MSSB loss, $77 million ($49 million after-tax) of repositioning 
charges in the fourth quarter 2012 and CVA/DVA (positive $3 million in 
2013 compared to positive $157 million in 2012), Citi Holdings net loss 
of $1.9 billion in 2013 improved 49% from a net loss of $3.7 billion in the 
prior year. The improvement in the net loss was due to significantly lower 
provisions for credit losses and higher revenue, partially offset by the increase 
in expenses driven by higher legal and related costs, as discussed above.Citi Holdings revenues increased to $4.5 billion, compared to a negative $792 million in the prior year. Excluding the 2012 MSSB loss and CVA/DVA, 

Citi Holdings revenues were $4.5 billion in 2013 compared to $3.7 billion 
in the prior year. Net interest revenues increased 22% year-over-year to 

$3.2 billion, largely driven by lower funding costs. Non-interest revenues, 
excluding the 2012 MSSB loss and CVA/DVA, increased 21% to $1.4
 billion, 
primarily driven by lower asset marks and the lower repurchase reserve 
builds, partially offset by lower consumer revenues and gains on asset sales.Citi Holdings assets declined 25% year-over-year to $117
 billion as of year-end 2013, and represented approximately 6% of total Citi™s GAAP assets 

and 19% of its estimated risk-weighted assets under Basel III (based on the 
ﬁAdvanced Approachesﬂ for determining risk-weighted assets).10FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAŠPAGE 1In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts and ratios
2013‹››™$46,793ŁŁŁŁ29,573Revenues, net of interest expense
$76,366ŁŁŁŁ
48,355
8,514Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes$19,497ŁŁŁŁ‘5,867Š‘Income (loss) from continuing operations$13,630ŁŁŁŁ‘Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
 (1)270“ŸŒ‘†Œ‘‘Net income (loss) before attribution of noncontrolling interests$13,900ŁŁŁŁ‘
227™ŸCitigroup™s net income (loss)
$13,673ŁŁŁŁ‘$194Ł‹†Ł‹†Ł™Ł
˙
Š„„„Š„„„
Š„„„
˙˙
˙ˆ
263™›‹Income (loss) allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for Basic EPS$13,216ŁŁŁŁ‘
Š„„„“Ÿ−›‘
˙
˙
˙
˙
ˆ
1‹„Income (loss) allocated to unrestricted common shareholders for diluted EPS (2)$13,217ŁŁŁŁ‘Earnings per share (3)Basic (3)
$4.27Ł‹‰Ÿ‚ŁŁ‚‰†−Ł“Š‰†›‘4.35‚‰Š‚‚‰†Ÿ“Š‰™™‘Diluted (2)(3)
$4.26Ł‹‰−†Ł‚‰†›Ł‚‰Ÿ‚Ł“Š‰†›‘4.35‹‰−−‚‰†‚‚‰Ÿ−“Š‰™™‘Dividends declared per common share
 (3)0.04›‰›−›‰›‚„
11 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATAŠPAGE 2 In millions of dollars, except per-share amounts, ratios and direct staff
2013‹››™At December 31:”
$1,880,382ŁŁŁŁ”
968,273221,116
197,601”
204,339
(in thousands)251‹Ÿ™‹††‹†›‹†ŸRatios
0.73%›‰‚™›‰ŸŸ›‰Ÿ‚“›‰›Œ
˙“−‘7.0†‰‚†‰Œ“™‰−‘
˙“−‘6.9†‰‚†‰Œ‘
63Š‹†ŸŸŸ†›”
˙“Ÿ‘˙“Œ‘12.64%™‰†›”
˙“Œ‘13.68”
˙“Œ‘16.65
˙“†‘8.21Š‰−Œ†‰†›†‰ŒŠ
10.51%™‰−ŠŒ‰Ÿ‹”
10.87™‰−™Œ‰Ÿ−Œ‰‹‹
˙“Š‘0.9›‰Œﬂ–ﬂ–˙“‚‘$65.23ŁŁ†›‰Š›ŁŁŸ‚‰Ÿ›•ˆ
2.16x‡‡‡ﬂ–˙


”˝ˆ



“‹‘˙

“‚‘˙˛˝
“−‘˙…˙ˆ‰˙

…˙ˆ‰
“Ÿ‘˙””


“†‘˙”
“Š‘˙
“Œ‘˙
˙

¦˙˙
Consolidation
…‰
¦˙˙
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
˙
Consolidation: Noncontrolling Interest in a Subsidiary
˙

”˙
Earnings Per Share: Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method
‘‰˙


Citigroup Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries
12SEGMENT AND BUSINESSŠINCOME (LOSS) AND REVENUESThe following tables show the income (loss) and revenues for Citigroup on a segment and business view:CITIGROUP INCOMEIn millions of dollars2013% Change 2013 vs. 2012
˙
Income (loss) from continuing operationsCITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$4,068ŁŁ(14)%EMEA59“‚Š‘Š™NMﬂ–Latin America
1,435(2)‘Asia1,570(13)“†‘Total
$7,132ŁŁ(10)%−Securities and BankingNorth America$2,701ŁŁNM“‚EMEA1,56215“‚‹‘Latin America
1,189(5)‚†Asia1,263Œ‚−™›−51“Œ‘Total
$6,715ŁŁ43%“ŒTransaction Services
North America$541Ł−††Ł−›Œ16%EMEA926(22)Latin America
451†−‹†‹‚(30)‚Asia998(10)“‚‘Total
$2,916ŁŁ(14)%ŸInstitutional Clients Group$9,631ŁŁ19%“‚Corporate/Other$(1,259)Ł‘Ł“Œ›Œ‘26%ﬂ–Total Citicorp
$15,504ŁŁ8%“†Citi Holdings$(1,874)Ł‘Ł‘71%“†›Income from continuing operations$13,630ŁŁ74%“‚›Discontinued operations$270Ł“ŸŒ‘Ł†ŒNMﬂ–Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests2274%−ŒCitigroup™s net income
$13,673ŁŁ81%“‚‹13CITIGROUP REVENUESIn millions of dollars2013% Change 2013 vs. 2012
˙
CITICORPGlobal Consumer BankingNorth America$19,778ŁŁ(6)%ŸEMEA1,449(2)“‚‘Latin America
9,3186‹Asia7,624(4)‘Total
$38,169ŁŁ(2)%‚Securities and BankingNorth America$9,045ŁŁ40%EMEA6,462Š‘Latin America
2,840(3)‹™Asia4,67111“‹‘Total
$23,018ŁŁ15%“ŒTransaction Services
North America$2,502ŁŁ(2)%ŸEMEA3,5331‚Latin America
1,8223ŸAsia2,703(7)‘Total
$10,560ŁŁ(1)%‚Institutional Clients Group$33,578ŁŁ9%“−Corporate/Other$77ŁŠ›ŁŠ†‹10%Total Citicorp
$71,824ŁŁ3%“‹Citi Holdings$4,542Ł“Š™‹)ŁNMﬂ–Total Citigroup net revenues
$76,366ŁŁ10%1415CITICORPCiticorp is Citigroup™s global bank for consumers and businesses and represents Citi™s core franchises. Citicorp is focused on providing best-in-class products and services to customers and leveraging Citigroup™s unparalleled global network, including many of the world™s emerging economies. Citicorp is physically present 
in approximately 100 countries, many for over 100 years, and offers services in over 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi believes this global network provides 
a strong foundation for servicing the broad financial services needs of its large multinational clients and for meeting the needs of retail, private banking, 
commercial, public sector and institutional clients around the world.Citicorp consists of the following operating businesses: Global Consumer Banking (which consists of Regional Consumer Banking in North America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia) and Institutional Clients Group (which includes Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
). Citicorp also includes 
Corporate/Other. At December 31, 2013, Citicorp had approximately $1.8 trillion of assets and $932 billion of deposits, representing 94% of Citi™s total assets and 

96% of Citi™s total deposits, respectively.
In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2013% Change 2013 vs. 2012
˙
$43,609ŁŁ(1)%„28,2159“Ÿ‘Total revenues, net of interest expense
$71,824ŁŁ3%“‹Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$7,393ŁŁ(12)%“‹−
(826)‘‘63Ÿ†
$6,567ŁŁ6%‹
212‹‚†(10)‹‹
90−›™‹NM“ŸŠ‘”
$6,869ŁŁ7%‹Total operating expenses
$42,455ŁŁ(5)%‹Income from continuing operations before taxes$22,500ŁŁ20%
6,99659“‹‚‘Income from continuing operations$15,504ŁŁ8%“†
270“ŸŒ‘†ŒNMﬂ–211‹™(2)ﬂ–Net income$15,563ŁŁ11%“ŒBalance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)Total end-of-period (EOP) assets
$1,763ŁŁ3%−—
1,7482‹
0.89%›‰Œ‹Efficiency ratio (Operating expenses/Total revenues)
59†−†‹Total EOP loans
$573ŁŸ−›ŁŸ›Š6ŠTotal EOP deposits
932Œ†‚Œ›−8Šﬂ–˙16GLOBAL CONSUMER BANKINGGlobal Consumer Banking (GCB) consists of Citigroup™s four geographical Regional Consumer Banking (RCB) businesses that provide traditional banking services to retail customers through retail banking, commercial banking, Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. GCB is a globally diversified business with 3,729 branches in 36 countries around the world as of December 31, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2013, GCB had approximately $395 billion of average assets and $328 billion of average deposits.GCB™s overall strategy is to leverage Citi™s global footprint and seek to be the preeminent bank for the emerging affluent and affluent consumers in large 
urban centers. As of December 31, 2013, Citi had consumer banking operations in 121, or 81%, of the world™s top 150 cities. In credit cards and in certain retail 
markets, Citi serves customers in a somewhat broader set of segments and geographies. Consistent with its overall strategy, Citi intends to continue to optimize 

its branch footprint and further concentrate its presence in major metropolitan areas.In millions of dollars except as otherwise noted2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$28,668Š%9,501(9)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$38,169(2)%˝
$20,608(3)%˝$7,211(11)%
(669)69
37—Š
212(11)
$6,79110%—˝
$10,770(7)%˝3,638(1)Income from continuing operations$7,132(10)%˝17—NM—Net income$7,115(11)%˝Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$3952%˝
1.81%˝˝‹‡
54
$405Šƒ
3282
2.50%˝˝Revenue by business$16,945(7)%˛˚˝21,2241Total
38,169(2)%˝Income from continuing operations by business$2,136(30)%˝4,9962Total
$7,132(10)%˝˘
17Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$38,169(2)%˝
Š
$38,169(2)%˝
$20,608(3)%˝
Š
$20,608(2)%˝
$6,79110%—˝
Š
$6,79111%˜˝$7,115(11)%˝
Š˛˚$7,115(11)%˝˙
˙
˙18NORTH AMERICA REGIONAL CONSUMER BANKINGNorth America Regional Consumer Banking (NA RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services to retail customers and small- to mid-size businesses in the U.S. NA RCB™s 983 retail bank branches as of December 31, 2013 are largely concentrated in the greater metropolitan areas 
of New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Miami, Washington, D.C., Boston, Philadelphia, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio and Austin.At December 31, 2013, NA RCB had approximately 12.0 million customer accounts, $44.1 billion of retail banking loans and $170.2 billion of deposits. In addition, NA RCB had approximately 113.9 million Citi-branded and Citi retail services credit card accounts, with $116.8 billion in outstanding card loan 
balances, including approximately 13.0 million credit card accounts and $7 billion of loans added in September 2013 as a result of the acquisition of Best Buy™s U.S. credit card portfolio.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$16,6591%3,119(31)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$19,778(6)%˝
$9,591(3)%˜˝$4,634(19)%
(1,036)57
60’˚(14)
6˛NM
$3,6647%
$6,523(14)%˝2,455(14)˜˜Income from continuing operations$4,068(14)%˝2˛—100—Net income$4,066(14)%˝Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$175˛’˜2%˝
2.32%˝˝‹‡
48ƒ
$1668
3.09%˝˝Revenue by business$5,378(20)%˝8,211Š
6,1893Total
$19,778(6)%˝Income from continuing operations by business$478(62)%2,009(1)
1,5818˛Total
$4,068(14)%˝˙192013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 14%, mainly driven by lower revenues and lower loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses and expenses.Revenues decreased 6% primarily due to lower retail banking revenues. Retail banking revenues of $5.4 billion declined 20% due to lower mortgage 
origination revenues driven by the significantly lower U.S. mortgage 
refinancing activity, particularly during the second half of 2013 due to higher 

interest rates. In addition, retail banking continued to experience ongoing 
spread compression in the deposit portfolios within the consumer and 
commercial banking businesses. Partially offsetting the spread compression 
was growth in average deposits (8%), average commercial loans (15%) 
and average retail loans (3%). While Citi believes mortgage revenues may 
have broadly stabilized as of year-end 2013, retail banking revenues will 

likely continue to be negatively impacted in 2014 by the lower mortgage 
origination revenues and spread compression in the deposit portfolios.Cards revenues increased 1%. In Citi-branded cards, revenues were unchanged at $8.2 billion as continued improvement in net interest spreads, 
reflecting higher yields as promotional balances represented a smaller 
percentage of the portfolio total as well as lower funding costs, were offset 
by a 5% decline in average loans. Citi-branded cards net interest revenue 
increased 1%, reflecting the higher yields and lower cost of funds, partially 
offset by the decline in average loans and a continued increased payment 
rate from consumer deleveraging. Citi-branded cards non-interest revenue 
declined 5% due to higher affinity rebates.Citi retail services revenues increased 3% primarily due to the acquisition of the Best Buy portfolio, partially offset by declining non-interest revenues, 
driven by improving credit and the resulting impact on contractual partner 
payments. Citi retail services net interest revenues increased 6% driven by a 
4% increase in average loans, primarily due to the Best Buy U.S. portfolio 
acquisition, although net interest spreads declined as the percentage of 
promotional balances within the portfolio increased and could continue to 
increase into 2014. Total card purchase sales of $240 billion increased 3% 

from the prior year, with 3% growth in Citi-branded cards and 5% growth in 

retail services. Citi expects cards revenues could continue to be negatively 
impacted by higher payment rates for consumers, reflecting the relatively 
slow economic recovery and deleveraging as well as Citi™s shift to higher 

credit quality borrowers.Expenses decreased 3%, primarily due to lower legal and related costs and repositioning savings, partially offset by higher-mortgage origination 

costs in the first half of 2013 and expenses in cards as a result of the Best Buy 
portfolio acquisition during the second half of the year.
Provisions increased 7%, as lower net credit losses in the Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services portfolios were offset by continued lower loan 
loss reserve releases ($1.0 billion in 2013 compared to $2.4 billion in 2012), 
primarily related to cards, as well as reserve builds for new loans originated 
in the Best Buy portfolio during the latter part of 2013, which are expected to 
continue into 2014.2012 vs. 2011Net income increased 18%, mainly driven by higher mortgage revenues in 
retail banking and a decline in net credit losses, partially offset by a reduction 
in loan loss reserve releases.Revenues increased 5%, driven by a 38% increase in retail banking mortgage revenues resulting from the high level of U.S. refinancing activity 
as well as higher margins resulting from the shift to retail as compared to 
third-party origination channels. Excluding mortgages, revenue from the 
retail banking business was essentially unchanged, as volume growth and 
improved mix in the deposit and lending portfolios within the consumer and 
commercial portfolios were offset by significant spread compression.Cards revenues declined 4%. In Citi-branded cards, both average loans and net interest revenue declined year-over-year, reflecting continued 

increased payment rates resulting from consumer deleveraging and the 
impact of the look-back provisions of The Credit Card Accountability 
Responsibility and Disclosure Act (CARD Act). In Citi retail services, net 
interest revenues improved slightly but were offset by declining non-interest 
revenues, driven by improving credit and the resulting impact on contractual 
partner payments.Expenses increased 2%, primarily due to increased mortgage origination costs resulting from the higher retail channel mortgage volumes and $100 
million of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012 as well as 
higher legal and related costs, partially offset by lower expenses in cards.Provisions decreased 14%, due to a 29% decline in net credit losses, primarily in the cards portfolios, partly offset by lower loan loss reserve 
releases ($2.4 billion in 2012 compared to $4.2 billion in 2011).20EMEA REGIONAL CONSUMER BANKINGEMEA Regional Consumer Banking (EMEA RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small- to mid-size businesses, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East. The countries in which EMEA RCB has the largest presence are Poland, Russia and the United Arab Emirates.At December 31, 2013, EMEA RCB had 172 retail bank branches with approximately 3.4 million customer accounts, $5.6 billion in retail banking loans, $13.1 billion in deposits, and 2.1 million Citi-branded card accounts with $2.4 billion in outstanding card loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$948(6)%˛˚˝5015Total revenues, net of interest expense
$1,449(2)%
$1,323(8)%’˝$68˛’˜(35)%
(18)NM
Š100
$50(49)%’˛˝
$76NM17NMIncome (loss) from continuing operations$59NM11—NM—˝Net income (loss)$48NMBalance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$10˛˚11%
0.48%˝‹‡
91ƒ
$12.6Š˛
0.85%˝˝Revenue by business$868(1)%—˝581(5)Total
$1,449(2)%Income (loss) from continuing operations by business$(23)75%8249Total
$59NMForeign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$1,449(2)%
Š
$1,449(1)%˜˝
$1,323(8)%’˝
Š
$1,323(6)%˝
$50(49)%’˛˝
Š
$50(49)%˝$48NM
Š˛$48NM˙
˙21The discussion of the results of operations for EMEA RCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of EMEA RCB™s results excluding 
the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of certain of these 
metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2013 vs. 2012Net income of $48 million compared to a net loss of $36 million in 2012 
as lower expenses and lower net credit losses were partially offset by lower 
revenues, primarily due to the sales of Citi™s consumer operations in Turkey 
and Romania during 2013.Revenues decreased 1%, mainly driven by the lower revenues resulting from the sales of the consumer operations referenced above, partially offset by 
higher volumes in core markets and a gain on sale related to the Turkey sale. 

Net interest revenue decreased 5%, due to continued spread compression in 
cards and an 8% decrease in average cards loans, primarily due to the sales 
in Turkey and Romania, partially offset by growth in average retail loans of 

13%. Interest rate caps on credit cards, particularly in Poland, the continued 
liquidation of a higher yielding non-strategic retail banking portfolio and 
the continued low interest rate environment were the main contributors to 
the lower net interest spreads. Citi expects continued regulatory changes, 
including caps on interchange rates, and spread compression to continue 
to negatively impact revenues in this business during 2014. Non-interest 
revenue increased 6%, mainly reflecting higher investment fees and card 
fees due to increased sales volume and the gain on sale related to Turkey, 

partially offset by lower revenues due to the sales in Turkey and Romania. 

Cards purchase sales decreased 4% and investment sales decreased 5% due to 
the sales in Turkey and Romania. Excluding the impact of these divestitures, 

cards purchase sales increased 9% and investment sales increased 12%.Expenses declined 6%, primarily due to repositioning savings as well as lower repositioning charges, partially offset by higher volume-related 
expenses and continued investment spending on new internal operating 
platforms.Provisions declined 49% due to a 35% decrease in net credit losses largely resulting from the sales in Turkey and Romania and a net credit recovery in 

the second quarter 2013. Net credit losses also continued to reflect stabilizing 
credit quality and Citi™s strategic move toward lower-risk customers.
2012 vs. 2011The net loss of $36 million compared to net income of $80 million in 2011 
and was mainly due to higher expenses and lower loan loss reserve releases, 
partially offset by higher revenues.Revenues increased 2%, with growth across the major products, particularly in Russia. Year-over-year, cards purchase sales increased 12%, 

investment sales increased 15% and retail loan volume increased 17%. 
Revenue growth year-over-year was partly offset by the absence of Akbank 

T.A.S. (Akbank), Citi™s equity investment in Turkey, which was moved to
 
Corporate/Other in the first quarter of 2012. Net interest revenue increased 
18%, driven by the absence of Akbank investment funding costs and growth 
in average deposits of 5%, average retail loans of 16% and average cards 
loans of 6%, partially offset by spread compression. Interest rate caps on 
credit cards, particularly in Turkey and Poland, the continued liquidation of 

the higher yielding non-strategic retail banking portfolio and the continued 
low interest rate environment were the main contributors to the lower net 
interest spreads. Non-interest revenue decreased 20%, mainly reflecting the 
absence of Akbank.Expenses increased 13%, primarily due to $57 million of fourth quarter of 2012 repositioning charges in Turkey, Romania and Pakistan and the impact 

of continued investment spending on new internal operating platforms 
during 2012.Provisions increased $43 million due to lower loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses across most countries. Net credit 
losses decreased 36% due to the ongoing improvement in credit quality and 
the move toward lower-risk customers.
22LATIN AMERICA REGIONAL CONSUMER BANKINGLatin America Regional Consumer Banking (Latin America RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small- to mid-size businesses, with the largest presence in Mexico and Brazil. Latin America RCB includes branch networks throughout Latin America as well as Banco Nacional de Mexico, or Banamex, Mexico™s second-largest bank, with nearly 1,700 branches. At December 31, 2013, Latin America RCB had 2,021 retail branches, with approximately 32.2 million customer accounts, $30.6 billion in retail banking loans and $47.7 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 9.2 million Citi-branded card accounts with $12.1 billion in outstanding loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$6,3054%˝3,01312—Total revenues, net of interest expense
$9,3186%˜˝
$5,2441%˜˝$1,72723%˝
37648
152(9)
$2,25523%˝
$1,8194%38438Income from continuing operations$1,435(2)%4—NM—Net income$1,431(3)%Balance Sheet data (in billions of dollars)ƒ
$823%—˝
1.77%˝˝‹‡
56ƒ
$46.23
4.16%˝˝Revenue by business$6,1355%˝3,18310Total
$9,3186%˜˝Income from continuing operations by business$833(8)%602’˜˛8Total
$1,435(2)%Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$9,3186%˜˝
Š
$9,3187%˝
$5,2441%˜˝
Š
$5,2442%’˝
$2,25523%˝
Š
$2,25525%˝$1,431(3)%
Š$1,431(4)%˙
˙23The discussion of the results of operations for Latin America RCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Latin America 
RCB™s results excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a 
reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 4% as higher credit costs, higher expenses and 
a higher effective tax rate (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements) were partially offset by higher revenues.Revenues increased 7%, primarily due to volume growth in retail banking and cards, partially offset by continued spread compression. Net interest 
revenue increased 4% due to increased volumes, partially offset by spread 
compression. Non-interest revenue increased 12%, primarily due to higher 
fees from increased business volumes in retail and cards. Retail banking 
revenues increased 5% as average loans increased 12%, investment sales 
increased 13% and average deposits increased 3%. Cards revenues increased 
11% as average loans increased 10% and purchase sales increased 13%, 
excluding the impact of Credicard (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements). Citi expects revenues in Latin America RCB could continue to 
be negatively impacted by spread compression during 2014, particularly in 
Mexico.Expenses increased 2% due to increased volume-related costs, mandatory salary increases in certain countries and higher regulatory costs, partially 
offset by lower repositioning charges and higher repositioning savings.Provisions increased 25%, primarily due to higher net credit losses as well as a higher loan loss reserve build. Net credit losses increased 25%, primarily 
in the Mexico cards and personal loan portfolios, reflecting both volume 
growth and portfolio seasoning, which Citi expects to continue into 2014. 
The loan loss reserve build increased 50%, primarily due to an increase in 
reserves in Mexico related to the top three Mexican homebuilders, with the 
remainder due to portfolio growth and seasoning and the impact of potential 
losses related to hurricanes in the region during September 2013.During 2013, homebuilders in Mexico began to experience financial difficulties, primarily due to, among other things, decreases in government 
subsidies, new government policies promoting vertical housing and an 
overall renewed government emphasis on urban planning. The loan loss 
reserve build related to the Mexican homebuilders in 2013 was driven by 
deterioration in the financial and operating conditions of these companies 
and decreases in the value of Citi™s collateral securing its loans. Citi™s 

outstanding loans to the top three homebuilders totaled $251 million at 
year-end 2013. Citi continues to monitor the performance of its Mexico 

homebuilder clients, as well as the value of its collateral, to determine 
whether additional reserves or charge-offs may be required in future periods.Going into 2014, absent any significant market developments, including further deterioration in Citi™s Mexican homebuilders clients or losses from the 

hurricanes in 2013, Citi expects net credit losses and reserve builds to be in 
line with portfolio growth and seasoning.For information on the potential impact to Latin America RCB from foreign exchange controls, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCountry and Cross-
Border RiskŠCross-Border Riskﬂ below.
2012 vs. 2011Net income declined 6% as higher revenues were offset by higher credit costs 
and expenses.Revenues increased 8%, primarily due to revenue growth in Mexico and higher volumes, mostly related to personal loans and credit cards. Net 
interest revenue increased 9% due to increased volumes, partially offset by 
continued spread compression. Non-interest revenue increased 6%, primarily 
due to increased business volumes in the private pension fund and insurance 
businesses.Expenses increased 7%, primarily due to $131 million of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012, higher volume-driven expenses and 
increased legal and related costs.Provisions increased 50%, primarily due to increased loan loss reserve builds driven by underlying business volume growth, primarily in Mexico 
and Colombia. In addition, net credit losses increased in the retail portfolios, 
primarily in Mexico, reflecting volume growth.24ASIA REGIONAL CONSUMER BANKINGAsia Regional Consumer Banking (Asia RCB) provides traditional banking and Citi-branded card services to retail customers and small- to mid-size businesses, with the largest Citi presence in Korea, Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines.At December 31, 2013, Asia RCB had 553 retail branches, approximately 16.8 million customer accounts, $71.6 billion in retail banking loans and $101.4 billion in deposits. In addition, the business had approximately 16.6 million Citi-branded card accounts with $19.1 billion in outstanding loan balances.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$4,756(8)%2,8683Total revenues, net of interest expense
$7,624(4)%
$4,450(7)%˝$782(7)%
9NM
31——Š—
$8222%
$2,352Š%78239Income from continuing operations$1,570(13)%Š——Š—Net income$1,570(13)%Balance Sheet data˙(in billions of dollars)ƒ
$129˛˜’˛˜˜2%˝
1.22%˝˝‹‡
58ƒ
$102.6(7)—
0.88%˝˝Revenue by business$4,564(4)%3,060(3)Total
$7,624(4)%Income from continuing operations by business$848(14)%722(11)˛’Total
$1,570(13)%Foreign Currency (FX) Translation Impact

$7,624(4)%
Š
$7,624(1)%—˝
$4,450(7)%˝
Š
$4,450(3)%˝
$8222%
Š
$8225%˛˝$1,570(13)%
Š$1,570(12)%˙
˙25The discussion of the results of operations for Asia RCB below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Asia RCB™s results excluding 
the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a reconciliation of certain of these 
metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 12%, primarily due to a higher effective tax rate 
(see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and lower revenues, 
partially offset by lower expenses.Revenues decreased 1%, as lower net interest revenue was partially offset by higher non-interest revenue. Net interest revenue declined 5%, primarily 
driven by continued spread compression and the repositioning of the 
franchise in Korea (see discussion below). Average retail deposits declined 

4% resulting from continued efforts to rebalance the deposit portfolio mix. 
Average retail loans increased 3% (11% excluding Korea). Non-interest 

revenue increased 7%, mainly driven by 22% growth in investment sales 
volume, despite a decrease in volumes in the second half of the year due to 
investor sentiment, reflecting overall market uncertainty. Cards purchase 

sales grew 7%, with growth across the region. Despite lower overall revenues 
in 2013, several key markets within the region experienced revenue growth, 
including Hong Kong, India, Thailand and China, partially offset by 
regulatory changes in the region, particularly Korea as well as Indonesia, 
Australia and Taiwan.
Citi expects regulatory changes and spread compression to continue to have an adverse impact on Asia RCB revenues during 2014. In addition, 
consistent with its strategy to concentrate its consumer banking operations 
in major metropolitan areas and focus on high quality consumer segments, 
Citi is in an ongoing process to reposition its consumer franchise in Korea 
to improve its operating efficiency and returns. While revenues in Korea 
could begin to stabilize in early 2014, this market could continue to have 
a negative impact on year-over-year revenue comparisons for 
Asia RCB 
through 2014.Expenses declined 3%, as lower repositioning charges and efficiency and repositioning savings were partially offset by increased investment spending, 
particularly investments in China cards.Provisions increased 5%, reflecting a higher loan loss reserve build due to volume growth in China, Hong Kong, India and Singapore as well as 
regulatory requirements in Korea, partially offset by lower net credit losses. 
Despite this increase, overall credit quality in the region remained stable 
during the year.
2012 vs. 2011Net income decreased 5% primarily due to higher expenses.Revenues were unchanged year-over-year. Net interest revenue decreased 
3%, as the benefit of higher loan and deposit balances was offset by spread 
compression, mainly in retail lending. Spread compression continued to 
reflect improvements in the customer risk profile, stricter underwriting 
criteria and the regulatory changes in Korea where policy actions, including 
rate caps and other initiatives, were implemented to slow the growth of 
consumer credit in that market, thus impacting volume growth, lending 
rates and fees. Non-interest revenue increased 6%, reflecting growth in 
cards purchase sales, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from foreign 
exchange products. Despite the continued spread compression and regulatory 
changes in the region, the underlying business metrics continued to grow, 

with average retail loans up 6% and average card loans up 2%.Expenses increased 5%, primarily due to approximately $78 million of repositioning charges in the fourth quarter of 2012, largely in Korea, and 
increased investment spending, including China cards and branches, higher 
volume-driven expenses and increased regulatory costs.Provisions increased 1%, primarily due to lower loan loss reserve releases, which was partially offset by lower net credit losses. Net credit losses 
continued to improve, declining 2% due to the ongoing improvement in 
credit quality.
26INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUPInstitutional Clients Group (ICG) includes Securities and Banking and Transaction Services. ICG provides corporate, institutional, public sector and high-net-worth 
clients around the world with a full range of wholesale banking products and services, including fixed income and equity sales and trading, foreign exchange, prime 
brokerage, equity and fixed income research, corporate lending, investment banking and advisory services, private banking, cash management, trade finance and 

securities services. ICG™s international presence is supported by trading floors in 75 countries and jurisdictions and a proprietary network within Transaction Services in 

over 95 countries and jurisdictions. At December 31, 2013, ICG had approximately $1 trillion of assets, $574 billion of deposits and $14.3 trillion of assets under custody.Effective in the first quarter of 2014, certain business activities within Securities and Banking and Transaction Services 
will be realigned and aggregated as Banking and Markets and Securities Services components within the ICG segment. The change is due to the realignment of the management structure 
within the ICG segment and will have no impact on any total segment-level information. Citi intends to release a revised Quarterly Financial Data Supplement 
reflecting this realignment prior to the release of first quarter of 2014 earnings information.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$4,5155%
2,675(4)˛3,86276,31053666NM
$18,02822%15,550(3)Total revenues, net of interest expense
$33,5789%
$19,897(1)%$182(35)%
5336
(157)NM
$78(72)%˝
$13,60333%3,97284Income from continuing operations$9,63119%110(14)Net income$9,52120%ƒ
 (in billions of dollars)$1,0672%˜˝
0.89%˝˝‹‡
59Revenues by regionNorth America$11,54728%EMEA9,9951Latin America
4,662ŠAsia7,3744Total
$33,5789%Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$3,24289%˛˝EMEA2,488(2)Latin America
1,640(13)Asia2,26116Total
$9,63119%ƒ
in billions of dollarsNorth America$9818%˜˚˝EMEA554Latin America
389˜˛Asia653˜˛Total
$2569%˝27SECURITIES AND BANKINGSecurities and Banking (S&B) offers a wide array of investment and commercial banking services and products for corporations, governments, institutional and public sector entities and high-net-worth individuals. S&B transacts with clients in both cash instruments and derivatives, including fixed income, foreign currency, equity and commodity products. S&B includes investment banking and advisory services, corporate lending, fixed income and equity sales and 
trading, prime brokerage, derivative services, equity and fixed income research and private banking.S&B revenue is generated primarily from fees and spreads associated with these activities. S&B earns fee income for assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage and investment banking services and other such activities. Revenue generated from these activities is recorded in Commissions and fees. In addition, as a market maker, 
S&B facilitates transactions, including holding product inventory to meet client demand, and earns the differential between 
the price at which it buys and sells the products. These price differentials and the unrealized gains and losses on the inventory are recorded in Principal transactions. S&B interest income earned on inventory and loans held is recorded as a component of Net interest revenue.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$9,909Š%˝13,10930Revenues, net of interest expense
$23,01815%
13,803(4)145(14)
71NM
(209)NM
$7˛˜˜(94)%˝Income before taxes and noncontrolling interests$9,20868%2,493NMIncome from continuing operations$6,71543%91˛˛˛(18)$6,62445%–
(in billions of dollars)$907Š%˛˝
0.73%˝˝⁄•
60Revenues by regionNorth America$9,04540%EMEA6,462ŠLatin America
2,840(3)Asia4,67111Total revenues
$23,01815%Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$2,701NMEMEA1,56215Latin America
1,189(5)Asia1,26351Total income from continuing operations
$6,71543%Securities and Banking –−‰›

$3,9778%˛˚˝13,107(7)3,01722˛1,21740
2,4874Securities and Banking(442)56Total 
Securities and Banking revenues (ex-CVA/DVA)
$23,3634%˝CVA/DVA (excluded as applicable in lines
 above)
(345)86%Total revenues, net of interest expense
$23,01815%˙282013 vs. 2012Net income increased 45%. Excluding negative $345 million of CVA/DVA (see table below), net income increased 12%, primarily driven by higher 
revenues and lower expenses, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate 
(see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Revenues increased 15%. Excluding CVA/DVA:
 Revenues increased 4%, reflecting higher revenues in equity markets, investment banking and the Private Bank, partially offset by lower 
revenues in fixed income markets. Overall, Citi™s wallet share continued 
to improve in most major products, while maintaining what Citi believes 
to be a disciplined risk appetite for the changing market environment 
during 2013. Fixed income markets revenues decreased 7%, primarily reflecting industry-wide weakness in rates and currencies, partially offset by strong 
performance in credit-related and securitized products and commodities. 
Rates and currencies performance was lower compared to a strong 2012 
that benefited from increased client revenues and a more liquid market 
environment, particularly in EMEA. 2013 results also reflected a general 
slowdown in client activity exacerbated by uncertainty, particularly in the 
latter part of 2013, around the tapering of quantitative easing as well as 
geopolitical issues. Credit-related and securitized products results reflected 
increased client activity driven by improved market conditions and 
demand for spread products. In addition, while not generally material to 
overall fixed income markets revenues, lower revenues from Citi Capital 
Advisors (CCA) during 2013 also contributed to the decline in fixed 
income markets revenue year-over-year, as Citi continued to wind down 
this business. Equity markets revenues increased 22%, primarily due to market share gains, continued improvement in cash and derivative trading 
performance and a more favorable market environment. Investment banking revenues increased 8%, reflecting gains in overall investment banking wallet share. Advisory revenues increased 19%, 
reflecting an improvement in wallet share, despite a contraction in the 
overall M&A market wallet. Equity underwriting revenues increased 
51%, driven by improved wallet share and increased market activity, 
particularly initial public offerings. Debt underwriting revenues decreased 
6%, primarily due to lower bond underwriting fees and a decline in wallet 
share during the year. Lending revenues increased 40%, driven by lower mark-to-market losses on hedges related to accrual loans (see table below) due to less significant 
credit spread tightening versus 2012. Excluding the mark-to-market losses 
on hedges related to accrual loans, core lending revenues decreased 4%, 
primarily due to increased hedge premium costs and moderately lower 
loan balances, partially offset by higher spreads. Citi expects demand for 
Corporate loans to remain muted in the current market environment. Private Bank revenues increased 4%, with growth across all regions and products, particularly in managed investments, where growth reflected 
both higher client assets under management and increased placement fees, as well as in capital markets. Revenue growth in lending and 
deposits, primarily driven by growth in client volumes, was partially offset 
by continued spread compression.Expenses decreased 4%, primarily reflecting repositioning savings, the impact of lower performance-based compensation, lower repositioning charges and the impact of FX translation, partially offset by higher legal and 
related costs and volume-related expenses.Provisions decreased $115 million, primarily reflecting higher loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by an increase in the provision for unfunded 
lending commitments in the Corporate loan portfolio.2012 vs. 2011Net income decreased 10%. Excluding negative $2.5 billion CVA/DVA 
(see table below), net income increased 56%, primarily driven by an increase 
in revenues and decrease in expenses.Revenues decreased 8%. Excluding CVA/DVA:
 Revenues increased 13%, reflecting higher revenues in most major S&B businesses. Overall, Citi gained wallet share during 2012 in most 
major products and regions, while maintaining what it believed to be a 
disciplined risk appetite for the market environment. Fixed income markets revenues increased 28%, reflecting strong performance in rates and currencies and higher revenues in credit-related 
and securitized products. These results reflected an improved market 
environment and more balanced trading flows, particularly in the 
second half of 2012. Rates and currencies performance reflected strong 
client and trading results in G-10 FX, G-10 rates and Citi™s local markets 
franchise. Credit products, securitized markets and municipals products 
experienced improved trading results, particularly in the second half of 
2012, compared to the prior-year period. Citi™s position serving corporate 
clients for markets products also contributed to the strength and diversity 
of client flows. Equity markets revenues increased 1%, due to improved derivatives performance as well as the absence of proprietary trading losses in 
2011, partially offset by lower cash equity volumes that impacted the 
industry as a whole. Citi™s improved performance in derivatives reflected 
improved trading and continued progress in capturing additional client 
wallet share. Investment banking revenues increased 10%, reflecting increases in debt underwriting and advisory revenues, partially offset by lower equity 
underwriting revenues. Debt underwriting revenues rose 18%, driven by 
increases in investment grade and high yield bond issuances. Advisory 
revenues increased 4%, despite the overall reduction in market activity 
during the year. Equity underwriting revenues declined 7%, driven by 
lower levels of market and client activity. Lending revenues decreased 48%, driven by the mark-to-market losses on hedges related to accrual loans (see table below). The loss on lending 
hedges, compared to a gain in the prior year, resulted from credit spreads 
narrowing during 2012. Excluding the mark-to-market losses on hedges 29related to accrual loans, core lending revenues increased 35%, primarily driven by growth in the Corporate loan portfolio and improved spreads in 
most regions. Private Bank revenues increased 8%, driven by growth in client assets as a result of client acquisition and development efforts in Citi™s targeted client 
segments. Deposit volumes, investment assets under management and 
loans all increased, while pricing and product mix optimization initiatives 

offset underlying spread compression across products.Expenses decreased 4%. Excluding repositioning charges of $349 million 
in 2012 (including $237 million in the fourth quarter of 2012) compared to 
$267 million in 2011, expenses also decreased 4%, driven by efficiency savings 

from ongoing re-engineering programs and lower compensation costs.Provisions increased 5% to $122 million, primarily reflecting lower loan loss reserve releases, partially offset by lower net credit losses, both due to 
portfolio stabilization.The table below summarizes pretax gains (losses) related to changes in CVA/DVA and hedges on accrual loans for the periods
 indicated.In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛S&B CVA/DVA
$(300)(39)
(6)Total 
S&B CVA/DVA
$(345)S&B Hedges on Accrual  Loans gain (loss) (1)$(287)˙S&B‹˙
˙


˙30TRANSACTION SERVICESTransaction Services is composed of Treasury and Trade Solutions and Securities and Fund Services. Treasury and Trade Solutions provides comprehensive cash management and trade finance services for corporations, financial institutions and public sector entities worldwide. Securities and Fund Services 
provides securities services to investors, such as global asset managers, custody and clearing services to intermediaries, such as broker-dealers, and depository 
and agency/trust services to multinational corporations and governments globally. Revenue is generated from net interest revenue on the spread between 
trade loans or intercompany placements and interest paid to customers on deposits as well as fees for transaction processing and fees on assets under custody 
and administration.In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change2013 vs. 2012
˙˜˚˛˛
$5,641(6)%’˝4,9195˛Total revenues, net of interest expense
$10,560(1)%˝
6,0945Š
71(54)Income before taxes and noncontrolling interests$4,395(8)%˝1,4798
2,916(14)1912Net income$2,897(14)%˝–
(in billions of dollars)$160˛’˚14%˝
1.81˝˝˝⁄•
58Revenues by regionNorth America$2,502(2)%˝EMEA3,5331Latin America
1,8223Asia2,703(7)Total revenues
$10,560(1)%˝Income from continuing operations by regionNorth America$54116%˛’˝EMEA926(22)˛˚Latin America
451(30)Asia998(10)Total income from continuing operations
$2,916(14)%˝Foreign currency (FX) translation impact

$10,560(1)%˝
Š
$10,560Š%˝
$6,0945%Š˝
Š
$6,0946%˜˝$2,897(14)%˝
Š$2,897(12)%˝Key indicators (in billions of dollars)–
$434’˚’7%˛˛˝
Š–
$4348%˛’˝(in trillions of dollars)$14.38%˛˚˝˙
˙˙
˙
˙31The discussion of the results of operations for Transaction Services below excludes the impact of FX translation for all periods presented. Presentation of the results of operations, excluding the impact of FX translation, are non-GAAP financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of Transaction 
Services™ results excluding the impact of FX translation is a more meaningful depiction of the underlying fundamentals of the business. For a 
reconciliation of certain of these metrics to the reported results, see the table above.2013 vs. 2012Net income decreased 12%, primarily due to higher expenses and a higher 
effective tax rate (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
partially offset by lower credit costs.Revenues were unchanged as growth from higher deposit balances, trade loans and fees from higher market volumes was offset by continued spread 
compression. Treasury and Trade Solutions revenues decreased 1%, as the 

ongoing impact of spread compression globally was partially offset by higher 
balances and fee growth. Treasury and Trade Solutions average deposits 

increased 7% and average trade loans increased 22%, including the impact 
of the consolidation of approximately $7 billion of trade loans during the 
second quarter of 2013. Securities and Fund Services revenues increased 4%, 
as settlement volumes increased 15% and assets under custody increased 
10%, partially offset by spread compression related to deposits. Despite the 
overall underlying volume growth, Citi expects spread compression will 
continue to negatively impact Transaction Services
 net interest revenues in 
the near term.Expenses increased $311 million. The increase was due to an estimated $360 million charge in the fourth quarter of 2013 related to a fraud 
discovered in Banamex in February 2014. Specifically, as more fully described 

in Citi™s Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 

February 28, 2014, as of December 31, 2013, Citi, through Banamex, had 
extended approximately $585 million of short-term credit to Oceanografia 
S.A. de C.V. (OSA), a Mexican oil services company, through an accounts 

receivable financing program. OSA had been a key supplier to Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex), the Mexican state-owned oil company, although, in February 2014, OSA was suspended from being awarded new Mexican 
government contracts. Pursuant to the program, Banamex extended credit 
to OSA to finance accounts receivables due from Pemex. In February 2014, Citi discovered that credit had been extended to OSA based on fraudulent 
accounts receivable documentation. The estimated $360 million charge 
in the fourth quarter of 2013 resulted from the difference between the 
$585 million Citi had recorded as owed by Pemex to Citi as of December 31, 
2013, and an estimated $185 million that Citi currently believes is owed by 
Pemex, with an offset to compensation expense of approximately $40 million associated with the Banamex variable compensation plan. Excluding the charge related to the fraud in the fourth quarter of 2013, expenses were 
unchanged as volume-related growth and increased financial transaction 
taxes in EMEA, which are expected to continue in future periods, were 
offset by efficiency savings, lower repositioning charges and lower legal and 
related costs.Provisions decreased by 54% due to lower credit costs. As discussed above, Citi currently believes it is owed approximately $185 million by Pemex 
pursuant to the Banamex accounts receivable financing program with 
OSA. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, Citi, through Banamex, had 
approximately $33 million in either direct obligations of OSA or standby 
letters of credit issued on OSA™s behalf. Citi continues to review the events 

arising from or relating to the fraud and their potential impacts. Based on 
its continued review, Citi will determine whether all or any portion of the 

$33 million of direct loans made to OSA and the remaining approximately 
$185 million of accounts receivable due from Pemex may be impaired. Any such impairment would negatively impact provisions in Transaction 
Services in future periods.Average deposits and other customer liabilities increased 8%, primarily as 
a result of client activity in Latin America, EMEA and North America (for 
additional information on Citi™s deposits, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠ

Market RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below).2012 vs. 2011Net income increased 9%, reflecting growth in revenues, partially offset by 
higher expenses and credit costs.Revenues increased 5% as higher trade loan and deposit balances were partially offset by continued spread compression and lower market volumes. 
Treasury and Trade Solutions revenues were up 8%, driven by growth in 

trade as end-of-period trade loans grew 24%. Cash management revenues 
also grew, reflecting growth in deposit balances and fees, partially offset 

by continued spread compression due to the continued low interest rate 
environment. Securities and Fund Services revenues decreased 2%, primarily 
driven by lower market volumes as well as spread compression on deposits.Expenses increased 2%. Excluding repositioning charges of $134 million in 2012 (including $95 million in the fourth quarter of 2012) compared 
to $60 million in 2011, expenses were unchanged, primarily driven by 
incremental investment spending and higher legal and related costs, offset by 
efficiency savings.Average deposits and other customer liabilities grew 14%, driven by 
focused deposit building activities as well as continued market demand for 
U.S. dollar deposits.32CORPORATE/OTHERCorporate/Other includes unallocated global staff functions (including finance, risk, human resources, legal and compliance), other corporate expenses and unallocated global operations and technology expenses, Corporate Treasury and discontinued operations. At December 31, 2013, Corporate/Other had approximately $313 billion of assets, or 17% of Citigroup™s total assets, consisting primarily of Citi™s liquidity portfolio (approximately $117 billion of cash 
and cash equivalents and $143 billion of liquid available-for-sale securities). For additional information, see ﬁBalance Sheet Reviewﬂ and ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛$(609)686Total revenues, net of interest expense
$77
$1,950
Š˛
$(1,873)
(614)Loss from continuing operations$(1,259)
270Net loss before attribution of noncontrolling interests$(989)84Net loss$(1,073)2013 vs. 2012The Net loss decreased $772 million to $1.1 billion, primarily due to lower 
expenses and the $189 million after-tax benefit from the sale of Credicard 
(see ﬁExecutive Summaryﬂ above and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), partially offset by a lower tax benefit.Revenues increased $7 million, driven by hedging gains, partially offset by lower revenue from sales of available-for-sale (AFS) securities in
 2013.Expenses decreased 39%, largely driven by lower legal and related costs and repositioning charges.2012 vs. 2011The Net loss increased by $1.1 billion, primarily due to a decrease in 
revenues and an increase in expenses, particularly repositioning charges and 
legal and related expenses.Revenues decreased $692 million, driven by a lower gain on the sale of minority investments in 2012 as compared to 2011 (a net pretax gain of 
$54 million in 2012 compared to $199 million in 2011), as well as lower 
investment yields on Citi™s Treasury portfolio and the negative impact of 

hedging activities. In 2012, the sale of minority investments included pretax 
gains of $1.1 billion and $542 million on the sales of Citi™s remaining stake 

in Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (HDFC) and its stake 
in Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, respectively, offset by a pretax 

impairment charge relating to Akbank of $1.2 billion and the net pretax loss 
of $424 million related to the sale of a 10.1% stake in Akbank (for additional 
information on Citi™s remaining interest in Akbank, see Note 14 to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements). The 2011 pretax gain of $199 million 
related to the partial sale of Citi™s minority interest in
 HDFC.Expenses increased by $923 million, largely driven by higher legal and related costs as well as higher repositioning charges, including $253 million 
in the fourth quarter of 2012.33CITI HOLDINGSCiti Holdings contains businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp businesses. As of December 31, 2013, Citi Holdings assets were approximately $117 billion, a decrease of 25% year-over-year. The decline in assets of $39 billion from December 31, 2012 was 
composed of approximately $19 billion of loan and other asset sales and $20 billion of run-off, pay-downs and charge-offs. As of December 31, 2013, Citi 
Holdings represented approximately 6% of Citi™s GAAP assets and 19% of its estimated risk-weighted assets under Basel III (based on the ﬁAdvanced Approachesﬂ 
for determining risk-weighted assets).As of December 31, 2013, Consumer assets in Citi Holdings were approximately $104 billion, or approximately 89% of Citi Holdings assets. Of the Consumer assets, approximately $73 billion, or 70%, consisted of North America residential mortgages (residential first mortgages and home equity loans), including Consumer mortgages originated by Citi™s legacy CitiFinancial 
North America business (approximately $12 billion, or 16%, of the $73 billion as of 
December 31, 2013).In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛% Change 2013 vs. 2012
˙˙˜˚˛˛
$3,18422%1,358NMTotal revenues, net of interest expense
$4,542NMProvisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$3,070(47)%
(2,033)(31)
$1,037(76)%
618(5)
(10)82
$1,645(66)%Total operating expenses
$5,90013%Loss from continuing operations before taxes$(3,003)73%
(1,129)74Loss from continuing operations$(1,874)71%16NMCiti Holdings net loss$(1,890)71%Balance sheet data (in billions of dollars)Average assets
$136(30)%
(1.39)%⁄•
130˛˚˜
$117(25)%
93˛’˛(20)
36(47)˛˚˙2013 vs. 2012The Net loss decreased by 71% to $1.9 billion. CVA/DVA was positive 
$3 million in 2013, compared to positive $157 million in 2012. 2012 also 
included the pretax loss of $4.7 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the 
sale of the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture (MSSB) to Morgan 
Stanley. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the 2012 MSSB loss, the net 
loss decreased to $1.9 billion from a net loss of $3.7 billion in 2012, due to 
significantly lower provisions for credit losses and higher revenues, partially 
offset by higher expenses.Revenues increased to $4.5 billion, primarily due to the absence of the 2012 MSSB loss. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the 2012 MSSB 
loss, revenues increased 22%, primarily driven by lower funding costs and 
lower residential mortgage repurchase reserve builds for representation and 
warranty claims. The repurchase reserve builds were $470 million in 2013, 
compared to $700 million in 2012 (for additional information on Citi™s 

repurchase reserve, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠCitigroup 
Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations and Warranties Repurchase 

Reserveﬂ below). Net interest revenues increased 22%, primarily due to the 
lower funding costs. Excluding the CVA/DVA in both periods and 2012 MSSB 

loss, non-interest revenues increased 21% to $1.4 billion, primarily driven by 
lower asset marks and the lower repurchase reserve builds, partially offset by 
lower consumer revenues and gains on asset sales.34Expenses increased 13%, primarily due to higher legal and related costs ($2.6 billion in 2013 compared to $1.2 billion in 2012), driven largely by legacy private-label securitization and other mortgage-related issues, 
partially offset by lower overall assets. Excluding legal and related costs, 
expenses declined 19% versus 2012. During 2013, approximately one-third 
of Citi Holdings™ expenses, excluding legal and related costs, consisted of 
mortgage-related expenses. Citi expects that the sale of mortgage servicing 
rights (MSRs) announced in January 2014 should benefit mortgage expenses 
in Citi Holdings during 2014 (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠ
Mortgage Servicing Rightsﬂ below). While Citi may seek to execute similar 
sales in the future, such sales often require investor and other approvals and 
could also be subject to regulatory review.
Provisions decreased 66%, driven by the absence of incremental net credit losses relating to the national mortgage settlement and those required by 
OCC guidance during 2012 (see discussion below), as well as improved credit 
in North America mortgages and overall lower asset levels.Loan loss reserve releases increased 31% to $2 billion, which included a loan loss reserve release of approximately $2.2 billion related to the North America mortgage portfolio, partially offset by losses on asset sales. Loan 
loss reserves related to the North America mortgage portfolio were utilized 
to offset a substantial portion of the North America mortgage portfolio net 
credit losses during 2013.2012 vs. 2011The Net loss increased by 56% to $6.5 billion, primarily due to the 2012 
MSSB loss. CVA/DVA was positive $157 million, compared to positive 
$74 million in 2011. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the 2012 
MSSB loss, the net loss decreased to $3.7 billion compared to a net loss of 
$4.2 billion in 2011, as lower revenues were partially offset by lower expenses, 
lower provisions and a tax benefit on the sale of a business in 2012.Revenues decreased $7.1 billion to negative $792 million, primarily due to the 2012 MSSB loss. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the 2012 

MSSB loss, revenues decreased 40%, primarily due to lower loan balances 
driven by continued asset sales, divestitures and run-off and higher funding 
costs related to MSSB assets, the absence of private equity marks and lower 
gains on sales.Expenses decreased 19%, driven by lower volumes and divestitures and slightly lower legal and related costs.Provisions decreased 19%, driven primarily by improved credit in North America mortgages and lower volumes and divestitures, partially 
offset by lower loan loss reserve releases. Net credit losses decreased by 
32% to $5.8 billion, primarily reflecting improvements in North America mortgages and despite being impacted by incremental mortgage charge-offs 
of approximately $635 million required by OCC guidance regarding the 
treatment of mortgage loans where the borrower has gone through Chapter 7 
bankruptcy and approximately $370 million related to previously deferred 
principal balances on modified mortgages related to anticipated forgiveness 
of principal in connection with the national mortgage settlement. In 
addition, net credit losses in 2012 were negatively impacted by an additional aggregate amount of $146 million related to the national mortgage 
settlement (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠNational Mortgage 
Settlementﬂ below).Japan Consumer FinanceIn 2008, Citi decided to exit its Japan Consumer Finance business and has 
liquidated approximately 92% of the portfolio since that time. While the 
portfolio has been significantly reduced, Citi continues to monitor various 
aspects of this legacy business relating to the charging of ﬁgray zoneﬂ 
interest, including customer defaults, refund claims and litigation, as well as 
financial, legislative, regulatory, judicial and other political developments. 
Gray zone interest represents interest at rates that are legal but for which 
claims may not be enforceable.As of December 31, 2013, Citi™s Japan Consumer Finance business had 
approximately $278 million in outstanding loans that currently charge 
or have previously charged interest rates in the gray zone, compared to 
approximately $709 million as of December 31, 2012. However, Citi could 

also be subject to refund claims on previously outstanding loans that charged 
gray zone interest and thus could be subject to losses on loans in excess of 
these amounts.At December 31, 2013, Citi™s reserves related to customer refunds in 
the Japan Consumer Finance business were $434 million, compared to 
$736 million at December 31, 2012. The decrease in the reserve year-over-

year primarily resulted from the significant liquidation of the portfolio, 
payments made to customers and a continuing reduction in the population 
of current and former customers who are eligible to make refund claims.Citi continues to monitor and evaluate developments relating to the charging of gray zone interest and the potential impact to both currently and 
previously outstanding loans in this legacy business as well as its reserves 
related thereto. The potential amount of losses and their impact on Citi is 
subject to significant uncertainty and continues to be difficult to predict.Payment Protection Insurance (PPI)The alleged mis-selling of PPI by financial institutions in the U.K. has 
been, and continues to be, the subject of intense review and focus by U.K. 
regulators, particularly the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (formerly the 
Financial Services Authority). The FCA has found certain problems across 
the industry with how these products were sold, including customers not 
realizing that the cost of PPI premiums was being added to their loan or PPI 
being unsuitable for the customer.PPI is designed to cover a customer™s loan repayments if certain events 
occur, such as long-term illness or unemployment. Prior to 2008, certain 

of Citi™s legacy U.K. consumer finance businesses, primarily CitiFinancial 

Europe plc and Canada Square Operations Ltd (formerly Egg Banking plc), 
engaged in the sale of PPI. While Citi has sold a significant portion of these 
businesses, and the remaining businesses are in the process of wind down, 
Citi generally remains subject to customer complaints for, and retains the 

potential liability relating to, the sale of PPI by these businesses.In 2011, the FCA required all firms engaged in the sale of PPI in the U.K. to review their historical sales processes for PPI. In addition, the FCA 35is requiring all such firms to contact proactively any customers who may have been mis-sold PPI after January 2005 and invite them to have their 
individual sale reviewed (Customer Contact Exercise). Citi currently expects 
to complete the Customer Contact Exercise by the end of the first half of 2014. 
Additionally, while Citi is not required to contact customers proactively for 

the sale of PPI prior to January 2005, it is still subject to customer complaints 
and redress for those sales.Redress, whether as a result of customer complaints pursuant to the required Customer Contact Exercise, or for the sale of PPI prior to 
January 2005, generally involves the repayment of premiums and the refund 
of all applicable contractual interest together with compensatory interest of 
8%. Citi estimates that the number of PPI policies sold after January 2005 
(across all applicable Citi businesses in the U.K.) was approximately 417,000, 
for which premiums totaling approximately $490 million were collected. 
As noted above, however, Citi also remains subject to customer complaints 

on the sale of PPI prior to January 2005 and, thus, it could be subject to 
customer complaints substantially higher than this amount.During 2013, Citi increased its PPI reserves by approximately $123 million ($83 million of which was recorded in Citi Holdings and 
$40 million of which was recorded in Corporate/Other for discontinued 
operations), including a $62 million reserve increase in the fourth quarter 
of 2013 ($30 million of which was recorded in Citi Holdings and $32 million 
of which was recorded in Corporate/Other for discontinued operations). 
The increase for the full year 2013 compared to an increase of $266 million 
during 2012. While the overall level of claims generally decreased during 
the second half of 2013, the increase in the reserves both during 2013 and 
in the fourth quarter of 2013 was primarily due to an increase in the rate of 
response to the Customer Contact Exercise as well as a continued elevated 
level of customer complaints on the sale of PPI prior to January 2005, 
which Citi believes is largely as a result of the continued regulatory focus 
and increased customer awareness of PPI issues across the industry. During 

2013, Citi paid $203 million of PPI claims, which were charged against the 
reserve, resulting in a year-end PPI reserve of $296
 million (compared to 
$376 million as of December 31, 2012).Citi believes the number of PPI complaints, the amount of refunds and the impact on Citi could remain volatile and are subject to continued 
significant uncertainty.
36BALANCE SHEET REVIEWThe following sets forth a general discussion of the changes in certain of the more significant line items of Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional information on Citigroup™s liquidity resources, including its deposits, short-term and long-term debt and secured financing transactions, see ﬁManaging Global 
RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.In billions of dollarsDecember 31,  2013September 30, 
 2013ˇˇEOP  4Q13 vs. 3Q13 
Increase  (decrease)%  ChangeˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇAssetsˇˇˇˇ$199$205š$(6)(3)%šˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ257274(17)(6)–
ˇˇ286292(6)(2)30930452ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇ64663791˘ˇ183188(5)(3)Total assets
$1,880$1,900š$(20)(1)%šLiabilities$968$955š$131%š˘›ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ204216(12)(6)–
ˇˇ
109122(13)(11)ˇ5959ŠŠ›ˇ221222(1)Šˇ
113123(10)(8)Total liabilities
$1,674$1,697š$(23)(1)%š„„Total equity
20620331‹Total liabilities and equity
$1,880$1,900š$(20)(1)%šASSETSCash and Deposits with BanksCash and deposits with banks is composed of both Cash and due from banks and Deposits with banks. Cash and due from banks includes 
(i) cash on hand at Citi™s domestic and overseas offices, and (ii) non-
interest-bearing balances due from banks, including non-interest-bearing 
demand deposit accounts with correspondent banks, central banks (such 
as the Federal Reserve Bank), and other banks or depository institutions for 
normal operating purposes. Deposits with banks includes interest-bearing 
balances, demand deposits and time deposits held in or due from banks 
(including correspondent banks, central banks and other banks or depository 
institutions) maintained for, among other things, normal operating and 
regulatory reserve requirement purposes.During 2013, cash and deposits with banks increased 43%, driven by a $67 billion, or 65%, increase in Deposits with banks, reflecting the 
growth in Citi™s deposits during the year (for additional information, see 

ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below). 
Sequentially, cash and deposits with banks decreased 3%, primarily driven 

by net loan growth and higher net trading account assets within Securities and Banking, as trading account liabilities decreased by more than trading account assets, as discussed below, partially offset by higher deposits in 

Transaction Services
 and sales related to the continued reduction of Citi 
Holdings assets.Average cash balances were $204 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, 
compared to $180 billion in the third quarter of 2013.Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or 
Purchased Under Agreements to Resell (Reverse Repos)Federal funds sold consist of unsecured advances to third parties of excess 
balances in reserve accounts held at the Federal Reserve Bank. For the full 
year and fourth quarter of 2013, Citi™s federal funds sold were not significant.Reverse repos and securities borrowed decreased 6% quarter-over-quarter, 
primarily due to a reduction in trading in the Markets businesses within 
Securities and Banking as counterparties became more cautious during 
the second half of 2013 as they reacted to potential tapering by the Federal 
Reserve Board and possible U.S. government default.For further information regarding these balance sheet categories, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.37Trading Account AssetsTrading account assets declined during the second half of 2013 due to declines in client activity in Rates and Currencies in the Markets businesses 
within Securities and Banking, as referenced above. Average trading 
account assets were $239 billion in the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to 
$246 billion in the third quarter of 2013.For further information on Citi™s trading account assets, see Note 13 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.InvestmentsInvestments generally remained stable during 2013, as a slight increase in 
foreign government securities was offset by declines in mortgage-backed 
securities to reduce the interest rate risk profile and U.S. Treasury and 
agency securities.For further information regarding investments, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.LoansLoans represent the largest asset category of Citi™s balance sheet. Citi™s 
total loans, net of unearned income, were $665 billion at December 31, 
2013, compared to $658 billion at September 30, 2013 and $655 billion at 
December 31, 2012. The impact of foreign exchange translation reduced loan 
balances by $8 billion year-over-year and by $1 billion quarter-over-quarter. 
Additionally, approximately $3 billion of loans were moved to Discontinued operations during the second quarter of 2013 as a result of the agreement to 
sell Credicard. Throughout this section, the discussion of loans excludes the 
impact of foreign exchange translation, and excludes Credicard loans for the 
fourth quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2013.Excluding these items, Citi™s loans increased 3% from the prior-year period 
and 1% quarter-over-quarter, as demand from consumer and corporate 

customers continued to be supported by the economic recovery, partially 

offset by the continued wind down of Citi Holdings. At year-end 2013, 

Consumer and Corporate loans represented 59% and 41%, respectively, of 

Citi™s total loans.
Citicorp loans increased 8% year-over-year, with growth in both the 
Consumer and Corporate loan portfolios. Consumer loans grew 5% from 
the prior-year period. In 
North America, Consumer loans grew 4% from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting the addition of the approximately 

$7 billion of credit card loans as a result of the acquisition of the Best Buy 
portfolio in the third quarter of 2013. Internationally, Consumer loans 

increased 7% from the prior-year period, led by growth in Mexico, Hong Kong 

and India, offset by the ongoing repositioning efforts in Korea.Corporate loans grew 12% from the prior-year period, with 12% growth 
in Asia, 7% growth in EMEA and 17% growth in North America, which 
included the consolidation of a $7 billion trade loan portfolio in Transaction 
Services during the second quarter of 2013. Private Bank loans increased 14% 

year-over-year, with the most significant growth in 
Asia and North America. Transaction Services
 loans grew 16% compared to the prior-year period, 

including the trade loan consolidation as well as origination growth in trade 
finance throughout the year. Corporate loans, excluding trade loans, grew 

10% from the prior-year period.
Citi Holdings loans declined 20% year-over-year, primarily due to 
continued run-off and asset sales.During the fourth quarter of 2013, average loans of $659 billion yielded an average rate of 7.0%, compared to $645 billion and 7.0% respectively, in 

the third quarter of 2013.For further information on Citi™s loan portfolios, see generally ﬁManaging 
Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below and Note 15 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.Other AssetsOther assets consist of brokerage receivables, goodwill, intangibles and 
mortgage servicing rights, in addition to other assets (including, among 
other items, loans held-for-sale, deferred tax assets, equity-method 
investments, interest and fees receivable, premises and equipment, certain 
end-user derivatives in a net receivable position, repossessed assets and 
other receivables).During the fourth quarter of 2013, other assets decreased 2% primarily due to the sale of Credicard, which was reported in Discontinued operations. Year-over-year, other assets declined 9% primarily due to a reduction in Citi™s 

deferred tax assets and loans held-for-sale as well as FX translation.
38LIABILITIESDepositsFor a discussion of Citi™s deposits, see ﬁManaging Global Risk ŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below.Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold 
Under Agreements to Repurchase (Repos)Federal funds purchased consist of unsecured advances of excess balances 
in reserve accounts held at the Federal Reserve Bank from third parties. For 
the full year and fourth quarter of 2013, Citi™s federal funds purchased were 
not significant.For further information on Citi™s secured financing transactions, see 
ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below. 

See also Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional 
information on these balance sheet categories.Trading Account LiabilitiesDuring the fourth quarter of 2013, Trading account liabilities decreased by 
11%, due to lower inventory in Securities and Banking businesses, which 
was aligned with the corresponding decrease in reverse repos and trading 
account assets discussed above. Average Trading account liabilities were 
$66 billion, compared to $71 billion in the third quarter of 2013, primarily 
due to lower average Securities and Banking volumes.For further information on Citi™s 
Trading account liabilities
, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.DebtFor further information on Citi™s long-term and short-term debt borrowings, 
see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and Liquidityﬂ below 
and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Other LiabilitiesOther liabilities consist of brokerage payables and other liabilities 
(including, among other items, accrued expenses and other payables, 
deferred tax liabilities, certain end-user derivatives in a net payable position, 
and reserves for legal claims, taxes, repositioning, unfunded lending 
commitments, and other matters).During 2013, Other liabilities decreased 10%, primarily due to a decrease in brokerage payables and normal business fluctuations.39Segment Balance Sheet (1)In millions of dollarsGlobal  Consumer  BankingInstitutional  Clients  GroupCorporate/Other  and  Consolidating  Eliminations (2)Subtotal  CiticorpCiti  HoldingsCitigroup Parent Company- 
 Issued  Long-Term 
 Debt and  Stockholders™  Equity (3)Total Citigroup 
 ConsolidatedAssetsˇˇˇˇ$17,787$63,373$116,763$197,923$967$Š$198,890ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ5,050251,077Š256,127910Š257,037–
ˇˇ6,279275,662242282,1833,745Š285,92830,403114,978150,873296,25412,726Š308,980ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇ291,531267,935Š559,46686,358Š645,824ˇ53,49572,47245,360171,32712,396Š183,723Total assets
$404,545$1,045,497$313,238$1,763,280$117,102$Š$1,880,382Liabilities and equity–
ˇ$332,422$573,782$26,099$932,303$35,970$Š$968,273ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ7,847195,664Š203,5111Š203,512–
ˇˇ
24107,463264107,7511,011Š108,762ˇ29147,11711,32258,730214Š58,944ˇ1,93437,47418,77358,1816,131156,804221,116ˇ
18,39376,13611,652106,1817,461Š113,642”˚“ˇ
ˇˇ43,6347,861243,334294,82966,314(361,143)ŠTotal liabilities
$404,545$1,045,497$311,444$1,761,486$117,102$(204,339)$1,674,249Total equity
ŠŠ1,7941,794Š204,339206,133Total liabilities and equity
$404,545$1,045,497$313,238$1,763,280$117,102$Š$1,880,382ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˙‡˚
ˇ
ˇˆ˚…
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˙ﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇ“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ‘˚‡‡ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ˙†‡†“ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ…
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇCorporate/Other
ˇˇˇˇˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇ−˚˚ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇ
40OFF-BALANCE-SHEET ARRANGEMENTSCitigroup enters into various types of off-balance-sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business. Citi™s involvement in these arrangements can 
take many different forms, including without limitation:purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in unconsolidated special purpose entities, such as credit card receivables and mortgage-
backed and other asset-backed securitization entities;holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general 
partnerships and equity interests in other unconsolidated special purpose 
entities;providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of 
credit and representations and warranties; andentering into operating leases for property and equipment.Citi enters into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes. The securitization arrangements offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process. The securitization 
arrangements also assist Citi and Citi™s customers in monetizing their 

financial assets at more favorable rates than Citi or the customers could 
otherwise obtain.The table below shows where a discussion of Citi™s various off-balance-
sheet arrangements may be found in this Form 10-K. In addition, 
see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesŠ
Securitizationsﬂ below as well as Notes 1, 22 and 27 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Types of Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements Disclosures in 
this Form 10-KŽ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇ

ˇ−˚˚ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ−˚˚ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
−˚˚ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
41CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONSThe following table includes information on Citigroup™s contractual obligations, as specified and aggregated pursuant to SEC requirements.Purchase obligations consist of those obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on Citi. For presentation 
purposes, purchase obligations are included in the table below through 
the termination date of the respective agreements, even if the contract is 
renewable. Many of the purchase agreements for goods or services include 
clauses that would allow Citigroup to cancel the agreement with specified notice; however, that impact is not included in the table below (unless 

Citigroup has already notified the counterparty of its intention to terminate 
the agreement).Other liabilities reflected on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet 
include obligations for goods and services that have already been received, 
uncertain tax positions and other liabilities that have been incurred and will 
ultimately be paid in cash.Contractual obligations by yearIn millions of dollars20142015201620172018ThereafterTotal
ˇˇ
ˇšššššššˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇTotal
$80,093$35,296$37,656$26,658$22,764$79,415$281,882ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇ“˚
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇﬁ“ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ“˚
ˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇOther liabilities
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇ…
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ‘˚‡‡ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇ−•ﬁ−
ˇ‹›ˇˇˇ−•ﬁ−
ˇˇˇˇˇ−•ﬁ−
ˇˇˇ42CAPITAL RESOURCESOverviewCapital is used principally to support assets in Citi™s businesses and to absorb credit, market and operational losses. Citi primarily generates capital 
through earnings from its operating businesses. Citi may augment its capital 
through issuances of common stock, perpetual preferred stock and equity 
issued through awards under employee benefit plans, among other issuances. 
During 2013, Citi issued approximately $4.3 billion of noncumulative 
perpetual preferred stock, resulting in a total of approximately $6.7 billion 
outstanding as of December 31, 2013.Citi has also previously augmented its regulatory capital through the issuance of trust preferred securities, although the treatment of such 
instruments as regulatory capital will largely be phased out under the 
final U.S. Basel III rules (Final Basel III Rules) (see ﬁRegulatory Capital 
Standards Developmentsﬂ below). Accordingly, Citi has continued to redeem 

certain of its trust preferred securities in contemplation of such future phase 
out (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and LiquidityŠ
Long-Term Debtﬂ below).
Further, changes in regulatory and accounting standards as well as the 
impact of future events on Citi™s business results, such as corporate and asset 

dispositions, may also affect Citi™s capital levels.
Citigroup™s capital management framework is designed to ensure that 
Citigroup and its principal subsidiaries maintain sufficient capital consistent 
with each entity™s respective risk profile and all applicable regulatory 

standards and guidelines. Citi assesses its capital adequacy against a series 
of internal quantitative capital goals, designed to evaluate the Company™s 

capital levels in expected and stressed economic environments. Underlying 
these internal quantitative capital goals are strategic capital considerations, 
centered on preserving and building financial strength. Senior management, 
with oversight from the Board of Directors, is responsible for the capital 
assessment and planning process, which is integrated into Citi™s capital plan, 

as part of the Federal Reserve Board™s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 

Review (CCAR) process. Implementation of the capital plan is carried out 
mainly through Citigroup™s Asset and Liability Committee, with oversight 

from the Risk Management and Finance Committee of Citigroup™s Board of 

Directors. Asset and liability committees are also established globally and for 
each significant legal entity, region, country and/or major line of business.
Current Regulatory Capital GuidelinesCitigroup Capital Resources Under Current Regulatory 
Guidelines
Citigroup is subject to the risk-based capital guidelines issued by the Federal 
Reserve Board which currently constitute the Basel I credit risk capital 
rules and also the final (revised) market risk capital rules (Basel II.5). 
Commencing with 2014, Citi™s regulatory capital ratios will reflect, in part, 
the implementation of certain aspects of the Final Basel III Rules, such as 
those related to the transitioning toward qualifying capital components, 
including the application of regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. 
In addition, effective with the second quarter of 2014, Citi will begin applying 
the Basel III Advanced Approaches rules. For additional information 
regarding the implementation of the Final Basel III Rules, see ﬁRegulatory 
Capital Standards Developmentsﬂ below.Historically, capital adequacy has been measured, in part, based on 
two risk-based capital ratios, the Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (Tier 1 

Capital + Tier 2 Capital) ratios. Tier 1 Capital consists of the sum of ﬁcore 

capital elements,ﬂ such as qualifying common stockholders™ equity, as 

adjusted, qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying noncontrolling 
interests, and qualifying trust preferred securities, principally reduced by 
goodwill, other disallowed intangible assets, and disallowed deferred tax 
assets. Total Capital also includes ﬁsupplementaryﬂ Tier 2 Capital elements, 

such as qualifying subordinated debt and a limited portion of the allowance 
for credit losses. Both measures of capital adequacy are stated as a percentage 
of risk-weighted assets.In 2009, the U.S. banking regulators developed a supervisory measure of capital termed ﬁTier 1 Common,ﬂ which is defined as Tier 1 Capital less 

non-common elements, including qualifying perpetual preferred stock, 
qualifying noncontrolling interests, and qualifying trust preferred securities. 
Until January 1, 2015, the Federal Reserve Board has retained this definition 
of Tier 1 Common Capital for CCAR purposes, which differs substantially 

from the more restrictive definition under the Final Basel III Rules. Moreover, 

the presentation of Tier 1 Common Capital and related ratio in the tables 

that follow, labeled ﬁCurrent Regulatory Guidelinesﬂ, are also consistent in 

derivation with this supervisory definition.43Citigroup™s risk-weighted assets are principally derived from application 
of the risk-based capital guidelines related to the measurement of credit risk. Pursuant to these guidelines, on balance sheet assets and the credit 
equivalent amount of certain off-balance-sheet exposures (such as financial 
guarantees, unfunded lending commitments, letters of credit and derivatives) 
are assigned to one of several prescribed risk-weight categories based upon 
the perceived credit risk associated with the obligor or, if relevant, the 

guarantor, the nature of the collateral, or external credit ratings. Risk-

weighted assets also incorporate a measure for market risk on covered 
trading account positions and foreign exchange and commodity positions 
whether or not carried in the trading account. Excluded from risk-weighted 
assets are any assets, such as goodwill and deferred tax assets, to the extent 
required to be deducted from regulatory capital.Citigroup is also subject to a Leverage ratio requirement, a non-risk-based measure of capital adequacy, which is defined as Tier 1 Capital as a 

percentage of quarterly adjusted average total assets.To be ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current federal bank regulatory agency 
definitions, a bank holding company must have a Tier 1 Capital ratio of at 

least 6%, a Total Capital ratio of at least 10%, and not be subject to a Federal 

Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital levels. In addition, 
the Federal Reserve Board currently expects bank holding companies to 
maintain a minimum Leverage ratio of 3% or 4%, depending on factors 
specified in its regulations.Citigroup Capital Ratios Under Current Regulatory GuidelinesDec. 31,
2013 (1)ˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ12.64%–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
13.68–
ˇ
ˇ†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ¢ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
16.65
8.21ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ–
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ˚…
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ–
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇAs indicated in the table above, Citigroup was ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under current federal bank regulatory agency definitions as of December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012.44Components of Citigroup Capital Under Current Regulatory GuidelinesIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇTier 1 Common Capital

ˇˇˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇ$197,694šRegulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:

ˇ”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ(1,724)ƒ€›ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ(1,245)ˇˇˇˇ˙†‡†“ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ(3,989)ˇ
ˇ˚……˚˛“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ(224)ˇˇˇˇˇ39,384ˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ˙†‡†“ﬂ
ˇ23,362ˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˜–⁄3,625ˇ”˚“ˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇˇˇ66„(369)Total Tier 1 Common Capital
$138,070šTier 1 Capital
ˇˇˇˇ$6,645šˇˇˇ3,858ˇˇ871Total Tier 1 Capital
$149,444šTier 2 Capital

ˇ…
ˇˇˇ$13,756šˇ
ˇˇ18,758”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇŠTotal Tier 2 Capital
$32,514šTotal Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$181,958šCitigroup Risk-Weighted Assets
In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013 (11)˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ$963,949šˇ
ˇ128,758Total Risk-Weighted Assets
$1,092,707šˇˇˇˇš€˘ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ…˚ˆ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˙‡˚‰…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇ“
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“—ˆ†“ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ“
ˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇ¦–łˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇAccumulated other comprehensive income
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇﬂ
ˇ•ﬁ−
ˇˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ−•ﬁ−
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ˙†‡†“ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˙˚ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˙‡˚
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂ
ˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˆ˚…‡˚˛“
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˚…
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ–
ˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇ45Citigroup Capital Rollforward Under Current Regulatory GuidelinesIn millions of dollarsThree Months Ended  December 31, 2013
Twelve Months Ended 
 December 31, 2013
Tier 1 Common Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$135,540$123,095”˚“ˇ2,45613,673ˇ(100)(314)”˚“ˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ(186)(811)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ197895”˚“ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ(391)(2,245)”˚“ˇˇˇ
ˇ˚……˚˛“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ86242”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ4262,416”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˜–⁄651,051”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇˇ(66)(66)43134Net increase in Tier 1 Common Capital
$2,530$14,975Balance, end of period
$138,070$138,070Tier 1 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$145,791$136,532”˚“ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
2,53014,975”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ(363)(6,125)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ1,4614,083”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇ25(21)Net increase in Tier 1 Capital
$3,653$12,912Balance, end of period
$149,444$149,444Tier 2 Capital

Balance, beginning of period
$32,550$31,154”˚“ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇ…
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ2771,426”˚“ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ(312)69”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬁ•−ˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇ…
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
(1)(135)Net change in Tier 2 Capital
$(36)$1,360Balance, end of period
$32,514$32,514Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$181,958$181,958ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚
ˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇš€˘ˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˆ˚…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇ…
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ46Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Rollforward Under Current Regulatory GuidelinesIn millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2013
Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2013
Risk-Weighted Assets
Balance, beginning of period
$1,068,991$971,253Changes in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ(1,348)(2,722)”˚“ˇˇˇˇ(558)(3,280)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ7,66310,502”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ(1,601)1,095”˚“ˇˇˇ
ˇ
(2,202)(1,894)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇ2,31612,230”˚“ˇˇˇˇ12,82015,7653,3972,531Net increase in Credit Risk-Weighted Assets
$20,487$34,227Changes in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
ˇˇˇˇˇ$Š$127,721ˇˇˇ(1,252)(29,542)ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
(1,988)(22,261)6,46911,309Net increase in Market Risk-Weighted Assets
$3,229$87,227Balance, end of period
$1,092,707$1,092,707Capital Resources of Citigroup™s Subsidiary U.S. Depository Institutions Under Current Regulatory Guidelines
Citigroup™s subsidiary U.S. depository institutions are also subject to risk-
based capital guidelines issued by their respective primary federal bank 
regulatory agencies, which are similar to the guidelines of the Federal 
Reserve Board. The following table sets forth the capital tiers, risk-weighted 
assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets and capital ratios under current 
regulatory guidelines for Citibank, N.A., Citi™s primary subsidiary U.S. 
depository institution, as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012.In millions of dollars, except ratios
Dec. 31,
 2013 (1)ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
$121,713š–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
122,450–
ˇ
ˇ†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ¢ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
141,341
ˇ905,836ﬂ
ˇˇﬁ
ˇ–
ˇˇ1,317,673–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
13.44%–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ
13.52–
ˇ
ˇ
15.60
ˇ
9.29ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ–
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ˚…
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ–
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ
47Impact of Changes on Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. Capital Ratios Under Current Regulatory Guidelines
The following table presents the estimated sensitivity of Citigroup™s and 
Citibank, N.A.™s capital ratios to changes of $100 million in Tier 1 Common 
Capital, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital (numerator), and changes of 
$1 billion in risk-weighted assets or quarterly adjusted average total assets 
(denominator) as of December 31, 2013. This information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the impact that a change in Citigroup™s or Citibank, 
N.A.™s financial position or results of operations could have on these ratios. 
These sensitivities only consider a single change to either a component 
of capital, risk-weighted assets, or quarterly adjusted average total assets. 
Accordingly, an event that affects more than one factor may have a larger 
basis point impact than is reflected in this table.Tier 1 Common ratio
Tier 1 Capital ratio
Total Capital ratio
Leverage ratioImpact of  $100 million  change in  Tier 1 
 Common  CapitalImpact of  $1 billion  change in  risk-weighted assetsImpact of  $100 million  change in  Tier 1 
 CapitalImpact of  $1 billion  change in  risk-weighted assetsImpact of  $100 million  change in  Total 
 CapitalImpact of  $1 billion  change in  risk-weighted assetsImpact of  $100 million  change in  Tier 1 
 CapitalImpact of  $1 billion  change in  quarterly  adjusted  average total  assets
0.9 bps1.2 bps0.9 bps1.3 bps0.9 bps1.5 bps0.5 bps0.5 bpsˇ1.1 bps1.5 bps1.1 bps1.5 bps1.1 bps1.7 bps0.8 bps0.7 bpsCitigroup Broker-Dealer SubsidiariesAt December 31, 2013, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., a U.S. broker-dealer registered with the SEC that is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of 
Citigroup, had net capital, computed in accordance with the SEC™s net 
capital rule, of $5.4 billion, which exceeded the minimum requirement by 
$4.5 billion.In addition, certain of Citi™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject 
to regulation in the countries in which they do business, including 
requirements to maintain specified levels of net capital or its equivalent. 
Citigroup™s other broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance with their 

capital requirements at December 31, 2013.Basel IIIFor additional information on Citi™s estimated Basel III ratios, see ﬁRisk 
FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ below.Tier 1 Common RatioCiti™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio was 10.6% at December 31, 
2013, compared to 10.5% at September 30, 2013 and 8.7% at December 31, 
2012 (all based on the ﬁAdvanced Approachesﬂ for determining total risk-
weighted assets).The marginal increase quarter-over-quarter in Citi™s estimated Basel III 
Tier 1 Common ratio reflected continued growth in Tier 1 Common 

Capital resulting from quarterly net income and further DTA utilization 

of approximately $700 million (see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and 
Significant EstimatesŠIncome Taxesﬂ below), the effect of which was 

largely offset by higher risk-weighted assets, principally driven by an increase 
in estimated operational risk-weighted assets. Citi increased its estimate of operational risk-weighted assets during the fourth quarter due to an ongoing 
review, refinement and enhancement of its Basel III models, as well as in 

consideration of the evolving regulatory and litigation environment within 
the banking industry.
The significant year-over-year increase in Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 
Common ratio was primarily due to net income and other improvements 
to Tier 1 Common Capital, including a sizable reduction in Citi™s minority 

investments principally resulting from the sale of Citi™s remaining interest 

in the MSSB joint venture as well as approximately $2.5 billion utilization 
of DTAs, which was partially offset by additional net losses in AOCI and, to a 

lesser extent, share repurchases and dividends.On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced that Citi was approved to exit the ﬁparallel runﬂ period regarding the application of 
the Basel III Advanced Approaches in the calculation of risk-weighted assets, 
effective for the second quarter of 2014. One of the stipulations for such 
approval is that Citi further increase its estimated operational risk-weighted 
assets to $288 billion from $232 billion as of December 31, 2013, reflecting 
ongoing developments regarding the overall banking industry operating 
environment. The pro forma impact of the required higher operational risk-
weighted assets would have been a decrease of approximately 50 basis points 
in Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio at December 31, 2013 to 

approximately 10.1%. For additional information regarding the parallel 
run period applicable to the Advanced Approaches under the Final Basel III 
Rules, see ﬁRegulatory Capital Standards DevelopmentsŠRisk-Based Capital 
Ratiosﬂ below.
48Components of Citigroup Capital Under Basel IIIIn millions of dollarsDecember 31,2013 (1)˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇTier 1 Common Capital

ˇˇˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇ$197,694šˇˇˇ182Regulatory Capital Adjustments and Deductions:
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ(1,245)ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ177ƒ‹›ˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˜–⁄ˇ24,518˙‡˚
ˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˜–⁄4,950ˇˇˇˇˇˇ1,125ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ‰…
ˇ26,439ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ…
ˇˇ˜–
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ16,315Total Tier 1 Common Capital
$125,597šAdditional Tier 1 Capital
ˇˇˇˇ6,645šˇˇˇˇ1,374ˇˇ39˘›Regulatory Capital Deduction:
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ243Total Tier 1 Capital
$133,412šTier 2 Capital
ˇ
ˇ14,414šˇˇˇ745ˇˇ52Regulatory Capital Adjustment and Deduction:
ˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ1,669ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ243Total Tier 2 Capital
$16,637šTotal Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
 (12)$150,049šˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…—‡‡ˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˚…
ˇ“˚
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ…—‡‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…—‡‡ˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˚…
ˇ“˚
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ…—‡‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇš€˘ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˚Œ—†“ﬂˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ…˚ˆ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ“˚
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚
ˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ‰…
ˇˇ‘˚‡‡ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇ“
ˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ˙˚ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ“
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ˚…
ˇˇˇˇˇ˙˚ˇˆ˚…
ˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˆ˚…
ˇ˜–
ˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ…
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˙˚ˇˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇ
ˇ“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ–
ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ–
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
49Citigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel IIIIn millions of dollarsDecember 31,2013 (1)˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇˇ$1,186,000šˇˇˇˇ$1,177,000šˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…—‡‡ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…—‡‡ˇ
ˇCitigroup Risk-Weighted Assets Under Basel III at December 31, 2013 (1)Advanced Approaches
Standardized ApproachIn millions of dollarsCiticorpCiti HoldingsTotal
CiticorpCiti  HoldingsTotal
ˇššššššˇ
ˇˇ„„„Total
$960,000$226,000$1,186,000$1,070,000$107,000$1,177,000ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…—‡‡ˇ
ˇˇˇ“
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ˙—“ˇˇˇˆ˚…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ˚……
ˇ“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ‰ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ‘†‡‡ˇ˙˚ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ50Citigroup Capital Rollforward Under Basel IIIIn millions of dollarsThree Months Ended December 31, 2013
Twelve Months Ended
 December 31, 2013
Tier 1 Common Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$121,691$105,396”˚“ˇ2,45613,673ˇ(100)(314)”˚“ˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ(186)(811)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ197895”˚“ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ(335)(2,237)”˚“ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ(96)(1,048)”˚“ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ162410”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˜–⁄ˇ203970”˚“ˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˜–⁄16682”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ(171)(393)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇﬂ…
1,5352,361”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ…
ˇˇ˜–
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ2156,0011012Net increase in Tier 1 Common Capital
$3,906$20,201Balance, end of period
$125,597$125,597Tier 1 Capital

Balance, beginning of period
$128,054$109,125”˚“ˇˇˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
3,90620,201”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ1,4614,083”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇ(2)(3)(7)6Net increase in Tier 1 Capital
$5,358$24,287Balance, end of period
$133,412$133,412Tier 2 Capital
Balance, beginning of period
$17,990$21,446”˚“ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ(349)467”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇˇŠ(1,837)”˚“ˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ(998)(3,446)(6)7Net decrease in Tier 2 Capital
$(1,353)$(4,809)Balance, end of period
$16,637$16,637Total Capital (Tier 1 Capital + Tier 2 Capital)
$150,049$150,049ˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇ“˚‡ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇ˙ﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ“˚
ˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇš€˘ˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ‘˚ˆ˚ˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇ–†˚ˆ
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ…
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ…
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇ“˚
ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ“
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˆ˚…
ˇ˜–
ˇˇˇﬂ
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ51Supplementary Leverage RatioCitigroup™s estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio was 5.4% for 
the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to an estimated 5.1% for the third 
quarter. The quarter-over-quarter ratio improvement was primarily due to an 
increase in Tier 1 Capital arising largely from quarterly net income, as well 
as a decrease in Total Leverage Exposure substantially resulting from lower 
on-balance-sheet assets.The Supplementary Leverage ratio represents the average for the quarter of the three monthly ratios of Tier 1 Capital to Total Leverage Exposure (i.e., 

the sum of the ratios calculated for October, November and December, divided 

by three). Total Leverage Exposure is the sum of: (i) the carrying value of 

all on-balance-sheet assets less applicable Tier 1 Capital deductions; (ii) the 

potential future exposure on derivative contracts; (iii) 10% of the notional 
amount of unconditionally cancellable commitments; and (iv) the full 
notional amount of certain other off-balance sheet exposures (e.g., other 
commitments and contingencies).Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio and estimated Basel III 
Supplementary Leverage ratio and certain related components are non-GAAP 
financial measures. Citigroup believes these ratios and their components 
provide useful information to investors and others by measuring Citigroup™s 

progress against future regulatory capital standards.Regulatory Capital Standards DevelopmentsBasel II.5
In June 2012, the U.S. banking agencies released final (revised) market 
risk capital rules (Basel II.5), which became effective on January 1, 2013. 
Subsequently, in December 2013, the Federal Reserve Board amended Basel 
II.5 by conforming such rules to certain elements of the Final Basel III Rules, 
as well as incorporating additional clarifications. These Basel II.5 revisions 
have not had a material impact on the measurement of Citi™s market risk-
weighted assets.Separately, in October 2013, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
(Basel Committee) issued a new proposal with respect to its ongoing review 
of regulatory capital standards applicable to the trading book of banking 
organizations. The proposal, which is more definitive than the initial version 
published in May 2012, would significantly revise the current market risk 
capital framework, as well as address previously known shortcomings in 
the Basel II.5 rules. Among the more significant of the proposed revisions 
are those related to (i) strengthening and clarifying the boundary between 
trading book and banking book positions; (ii) incorporating certain 
modifications to the standardized approach to the calculation of risk-
weighted assets; (iii) redesigning internal regulatory capital models; and 
(iv) expanding the scope and granularity of public disclosures. The Basel 
Committee has also initiated, in parallel, a quantitative impact study in 
an effort to assess the implications arising from the proposal. Timing as to 

finalization of the Basel Committee proposal, and the potential future impact 
on U.S. banking organizations, such as Citi, are uncertain.Basel IIIOverviewIn July 2013, the U.S. banking agencies released the Final Basel III 
Rules, which comprehensively revise the regulatory capital framework 
for substantially all U.S. banking organizations and incorporate relevant 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.The Final Basel III Rules raise the quantity and quality of regulatory capital by formally introducing not only Tier 1 Common Capital and 

mandating it be the predominant form of regulatory capital, but also by 
narrowing the definition of qualifying capital elements at all three regulatory 
capital tiers (i.e., Tier 1 Common Capital, Additional Tier 1 Capital, and 

Tier
 2 Capital) as well as imposing broader and more constraining regulatory 
capital adjustments and deductions. Moreover, these rules establish both a 

fixed and a discretionary capital buffer, which would be available to absorb 

losses in advance of any potential impairment of regulatory capital below the 
stated minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements.For so-called ﬁAdvanced Approachesﬂ banking organizations (generally those with consolidated total assets of at least $250 billion or consolidated 
total on-balance-sheet foreign exposures of at least $10 billion), which 
includes Citi and Citibank, N.A., the Final Basel III Rules are required to be 
adopted effective January 1, 2014, with the exception of the ﬁStandardized 
Approachﬂ for deriving risk-weighted assets, which becomes effective 
January 1, 2015. However, in order to minimize the effect of adopting 

these new requirements on U.S. banking organizations and consequently 
potentially also global economies, the Final Basel III Rules contain several 
differing, largely multi-year transition provisions (i.e., ﬁphase-insﬂ and 
ﬁphase-outsﬂ) with respect to the stated minimum Tier 1 Common and 

Tier 1 Capital ratio requirements, substantially all regulatory adjustments 

and deductions, non-qualifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital instruments 

(such as trust preferred securities), and the capital buffers. All of these 
transition provisions, with the exception of the phase-out of non-qualifying 
trust preferred securities from Tier 2 Capital, will be fully implemented by 

January 1, 2019 (i.e., hereinafter ﬁfully phased-inﬂ).52Risk-Based Capital RatiosUnder the Final Basel III Rules, when fully phased in by January 1, 2019, Citi will be required to maintain stated minimum Tier 1 Common, Tier 1 
Capital and Total Capital ratios of 4.5%, 6% and 8%, respectively, and will 
be subject to substantially higher effective minimum ratio requirements 
due to the imposition of an additional 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer 
and a surcharge of at least 2% as a global systemically important bank 
(G-SIB). Accordingly, Citi currently anticipates that its effective minimum 
Tier 1 Common, Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratio requirements as of 
January 1, 2019 will be at least 9%, 10.5% and 12.5%, respectively.Further, the Final Basel III Rules implement the ﬁcapital floor provisionﬂ 
of the so-called ﬁCollins Amendmentﬂ of the Dodd-Frank Act. This provision 

requires Advanced Approaches banking organizations to calculate each of the 

three risk-based capital ratios under both the Standardized Approach starting 

on January 1, 2015 (or, for 2014, prior to the effective date of the Standardized 

Approach, the existing Basel I and Basel II.5 capital rules) and the Advanced 

Approaches and publicly report the lower (most conservative) of each of 

the resulting capital ratios. The Standardized Approach and the Advanced 

Approaches primarily differ in the composition and calculation of total risk-
weighted assets, as well as in the definition of Total Capital.
Advanced Approaches banking organizations such as Citi and Citibank, N.A. are required, however, to participate in, and 
must receive Federal Reserve 
Board and OCC approval to exit a parallel run period with respect to the 
calculation of Advanced Approaches risk-weighted assets prior to being able 
to comply with the capital floor provision of the Collins Amendment. During 
such period, the publicly reported ratios of Advanced Approaches banking 
organizations (and the ratios against which compliance with the regulatory 
capital framework is to be measured) would consist of only those risk-based 
capital ratios calculated under the Basel I and Basel II.5 capital rules (or, 

after January 1, 2015, under the Standardized Approach). During the parallel 
run period, Advanced Approaches banking organizations are required to 
report their risk-based capital ratios under the Advanced Approaches only 
to their primary federal banking regulator, which for Citi is the Federal 

Reserve Board. Upon exiting parallel run, an Advanced Approaches banking 
organization would then be required to publicly report (and would be 
measured for compliance against) the lower of each of the risk-based capital 
ratios calculated under the capital floor provision of the Collins Amendment, 
as set forth above.On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and OCC granted permission for Citi and Citibank, N.A., respectively, to exit the parallel run 

period and to begin applying the Advanced Approaches framework in the 
calculation and public reporting of risk-based capital ratios, effective with the second quarter of 2014. Such approval is subject to Citi™s satisfactory 

compliance with certain commitments regarding the implementation of 
the Advanced Approaches rule, as well as general ongoing qualification 
requirements.Capital BuffersThe Final Basel III Rules establish a 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer 
applicable to substantially all U.S. banking organizations and, for Advanced 
Approaches banking organizations, a potential additional Countercyclical 
Capital Buffer of up to 2.5%. An Advanced Approaches banking organization™s 

Countercyclical Capital Buffer would be derived based upon the weighted 
average of the Countercyclical Capital Buffer requirements, if any, in those 
national jurisdictions in which the banking organization has private 
sector credit exposures. Moreover, the Countercyclical Capital Buffer would 
be invoked upon a determination by the U.S. banking agencies that the 
market is experiencing excessive aggregate credit growth, and would be an 
extension of the Capital Conservation Buffer (i.e., an aggregate combined 
buffer of potentially between 2.5% and 5%). While Advanced Approaches 
banking organizations may draw on the Capital Conservation Buffer and, if 
invoked, the Countercyclical Capital Buffer, to absorb losses during periods 
of financial or economic stress, restrictions on earnings distributions (e.g., 
dividends, equity repurchases, and discretionary executive bonuses) would 
result, with the degree of such restrictions greater based upon the extent to 
which the buffer is drawn upon.Under the Final Basel III Rules, the Capital Conservation Buffer for Advanced Approaches banking organizations, as well as the Countercyclical 
Capital Buffer, if invoked, must be calculated in accordance with the Collins 

Amendment, and thus be based on a comparison of each of the three 
reportable risk-based capital ratios as determined under both the Advanced 
Approaches and the Standardized Approach (or, for 2014, the existing Basel 

I and Basel II.5 capital rules) and the stated minimum required ratios for 
each (i.e., 4.5% Tier 1 Common, 6% Tier 1 Capital and 8% Total Capital), 

with the reportable Capital Conservation Buffer (and, if applicable, also the 
Countercyclical Capital Buffer) being the smallest of the three differences. 
Both of these buffers, which are to be comprised entirely of Tier 1 Common 

Capital, are to be phased in incrementally from January 1, 2016 through 
January 1, 2019.53G-SIB SurchargeIn July 2013, the Basel Committee issued an update of its G-SIB framework, incorporating a number of revisions relative to the original rules published 
in November 2011. Among the revisions are selected refinements to the 
methodology for assessing global systemic importance, clarifications related 
to the imposition of additional Tier 1 Common Capital surcharges, and 
certain public disclosure requirements.Under the Basel Committee rules, the methodology for assessing G-SIBs 
is based primarily on quantitative measurement indicators underlying five 

equally weighted broad categories of systemic importance: (i) size; (ii) global 

(cross-jurisdictional) activity; (iii) interconnectedness; (iv) substitutability/
financial institution infrastructure; and (v) complexity. With the exception of 

size, each of the other categories are comprised of multiple indicators also of 

equal weight, and amounting to 12 in total. The initial G-SIB surcharge, which 

is to be comprised entirely of Tier 1 Common Capital, ranges from 1% to 2.5% 

of risk-weighted assets. Moreover, under the Basel Committee™s rules, the G-SIB 

surcharge will be introduced in parallel with the Basel III Capital Conservation 

Buffer and, if applicable, any Countercyclical Capital Buffer, commencing 

phase-in on January 1, 2016 and becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019.Separately, the Final Basel III Rules do not address G-SIBs. Nonetheless, 
the Federal Reserve Board is required by the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules 
establishing a quantitative risk-based capital surcharge for financial 
institutions deemed to be systemically important and posing risk to 
market-wide financial stability, such as Citi, and the Federal Reserve Board 

has indicated that it intends for these rules to be consistent with the Basel 
Committee™s G-SIB rules. Although no such rules have yet been proposed by 

the Federal Reserve Board, Citi anticipates that it will likely be subject to at 
least a 2% initial additional Tier 1 Common Capital surcharge.
Regulatory Capital Adjustments and DeductionsSubstantially all of the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions required under the Final Basel III Rules are to be applied in arriving at Tier 1 

Common Capital.Assets required to be fully deducted from Tier 1 Common Capital 
include, in part, goodwill (both standalone and embedded) and identifiable 
intangible assets (other than MSRs), net assets of certain defined benefit 
pension plans, and DTAs arising from tax credit and net operating loss carry-

forwards. Additionally, DTAs arising from temporary differences, significant 

investments in the common stock of unconsolidated financial institutions, 
and MSRs are subject to potential partial deduction under the so-called 
ﬁthreshold deductionsﬂ (i.e., the portions of these assets that individually 
and, in the aggregate, initially exceed 10% and subsequently collectively 
exceed 15%, respectively, of adjusted Tier 1 Common Capital). Furthermore, 

any assets required to be deducted from regulatory capital are also excluded 
from risk-weighted assets, as well as adjusted average total assets and Total 

Leverage Exposure for leverage ratio purposes.The Final Basel III Rules also require that principally all of the components of AOCI be fully reflected in Tier 1 Common Capital, including 

net unrealized gains and losses on all AFS securities and adjustments to 
defined benefit plan liabilities. Conversely, the rules permit the exclusion 

of net gains and losses on cash flow hedges included in AOCI related to the 
hedging of items not recognized at fair value on a banking organization™s 

balance sheet. Moreover, an Advanced Approaches banking organization 
must adjust its Tier 1 Common Capital for the cumulative change in the 

fair value of financial liabilities attributable to the change in the banking 
organization™s own creditworthiness. Apart from Tier 1 Common Capital 

effects, the minimum regulatory capital requirements of insurance 
underwriting subsidiaries are required to be deducted equally from both 
Additional Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital.
The impact of these regulatory capital adjustments and deductions, with the exception of goodwill, which is required to be deducted in full 
commencing January 1, 2014, are generally to be phased in incrementally 
at 20% annually beginning on January 1, 2014, with full implementation 
by January 1, 2018.Non-Qualifying Trust Preferred SecuritiesAs for non-qualifying capital instruments, the Final Basel III Rules require 
that Advanced Approaches banking organizations phase-out from Tier 1 
Capital trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by January 1, 
2016 (other than certain grandfathered trust preferred securities), with 
50% of these non-qualifying capital instruments includable in Tier 1 
Capital in 2014 and 25% includable in 2015. The carrying value of trust 
preferred securities excluded from Tier 1 Capital may be included in full 
in Tier 2 Capital during those two years (i.e., 50% and 75% in 2014 and 
2015, respectively), but must be phased out of Tier 2 Capital by January 1, 
2022 (declining in 10% annual increments starting at 60% in 2016). 
Moreover, under the Final Basel III Rules, any nonconforming Tier 2 Capital 
instruments issued prior to May 19, 2010 will also be required to be phased 
out by January 1, 2016, with issuances after May 19, 2010 required to be 
excluded entirely from Tier 2 Capital as of January 1, 2014.Standardized Approach Risk-Weighted AssetsThe Standardized Approach for determining risk-weighted assets is applicable 
to substantially all U.S. banking organizations, including Citi and Citibank, 
N.A. and, as of January 1, 2015, will replace the existing regulatory capital 
rules governing the calculation of risk-weighted assets. Although the 
mechanics of calculating risk-weighted assets remains largely unchanged 
from Basel I, the Standardized Approach incorporates heightened risk 
sensitivity for calculating risk-weighted assets for certain on-balance-sheet 
assets and off-balance-sheet exposures, including those to foreign sovereign 
governments and banks, corporate and securitization exposures, and 
counterparty credit risk on derivative contracts. Total risk-weighted assets 
under the Standardized Approach exclude risk-weighted assets arising from 
operational risk, require more limited approaches in measuring risk-
weighted assets for securitization exposures, and apply the standardized risk 
weights to arrive at credit risk-weighted assets. As required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, the Standardized Approach relies on alternatives to external credit 
ratings in the treatment of certain exposures.54Advanced Approaches Risk-Weighted AssetsThe Advanced Approaches for determining risk-weighted assets amends the U.S. Basel II capital guidelines for calculating risk-weighted assets. Total 
risk-weighted assets under the Advanced Approaches would include not only 
Advanced Approaches in calculating credit and operational risk-weighted 
assets, but also market risk-weighted assets. Primary among the Basel II 
modifications are those related to the treatment of counterparty credit risk, 
as well as substantial revisions to the securitization exposure framework. As 
with the Standardized Approach, and as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, 
all references to, and reliance on, external credit ratings in deriving risk-
weighted assets for various types of exposures are removed.Leverage RatiosUnder the Final Basel III Rules, Advanced Approaches banking organizations 

are also required to calculate two leverage ratios, a ﬁTier 1ﬂ Leverage ratio 

and a ﬁSupplementaryﬂ Leverage ratio. The Tier 1 Leverage ratio is a modified 

version of the current U.S. Leverage ratio and reflects the more restrictive Basel 

III definition of Tier 1 Capital in the numerator, but with the same current 

denominator consisting of average total assets less amounts deducted from 

Tier 1 Capital. The Supplementary Leverage ratio significantly differs from 

the Tier 1 Leverage ratio by also including certain off-balance-sheet exposures 

within the denominator of the ratio. Citi, as with substantially all U.S. banking 

organizations, will be required to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage ratio 

of 4% effective January 1, 2014. Advanced Approaches banking organizations 

will be required to maintain a stated minimum Supplementary Leverage 

ratio of 3% commencing on January 1, 2018, but must commence publicly 

disclosing this ratio on January 1, 2015.In July 2013, subsequent to the release of the Final Basel III Rules, the U.S. banking agencies also issued a notice of proposed rulemaking which 
would amend the Final Basel III Rules to impose on the eight largest U.S. 
bank holding companies (currently identified as G-SIBs by the Financial 
Stability Board, which includes Citi) a 2% leverage buffer in addition to 
the stated 3% minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement. The 
leverage buffer would operate in a manner similar to that of the Capital 
Conservation Buffer, such that if a banking organization failed to exceed 

the 2% requirement it would be subject to increasingly onerous restrictions 
(depending upon the extent of the shortfall) regarding capital distributions 
and discretionary executive bonus payments. Accordingly, the proposal 

would effectively raise the Supplementary Leverage ratio requirement to 
5%. Additionally, the proposed rules would require that insured depository 

institution subsidiaries of these bank holding companies, such as Citibank, N.A., maintain a minimum Supplementary Leverage ratio of 6% to be 
considered ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under the revised prompt corrective action 
framework established by the Final Basel III Rules. If adopted as proposed, 
Citi and Citibank, N.A. would need to be compliant with these higher effective 
minimum ratio requirements on January 1, 2018.Separately, in January 2014, the Basel Committee adopted revisions 
which substantially modify its original rules in relation to the measurement 
of exposures for derivatives, securities financing transactions (SFTs), and 

most off-balance-sheet commitments and contingencies, all of which are 
included in the denominator of the Basel III Leverage ratio (the equivalent 
of the U.S. Supplementary Leverage ratio). Under the revised rules, banking 
organizations will be permitted limited netting of SFTs with the same 

counterparty and allowed to apply cash variation margin to reduce derivative 
exposures, both of which are subject to certain specific conditions, as well 
as cap written credit derivative exposures. Moreover, the credit conversion 

factors to be applied to certain off-balance-sheet exposures have been reduced 

from 100% to those applicable under the Basel III Standardized Approach 
for determining credit risk-weighted assets. The Basel Committee will also 
continue to monitor banking organizations™ Basel III Leverage ratios on a 
semiannual basis in order to assess whether any further revisions, including 
the calibration of the ratio, are deemed necessary prior to the incorporation 
of any final adjustments by January 1, 2017. Accordingly, the U.S. banking 

agencies may further revise the Supplementary Leverage ratio in the future 
based upon the current and any further revisions adopted by the Basel 
Committee.55Prompt Corrective Action FrameworkThe Final Basel III Rules revise the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) regulations in certain respects. In general, the PCA regulations direct the U.S. 
banking agencies to enforce increasingly strict limitations on the activities 
of insured depository institutions that fail to meet certain regulatory capital 
thresholds. The revised PCA framework contains five categories of capital 
adequacy as measured by risk-based capital and leverage ratios: (i) ﬁwell 
capitalized;ﬂ (ii) ﬁadequately capitalized;ﬂ (iii) ﬁundercapitalized;ﬂ 
(iv) ﬁsignificantly undercapitalized;ﬂ and (v) ﬁcritically undercapitalized.ﬂAdditionally, the U.S. banking agencies revised the PCA regulations 
to accommodate a new minimum Tier 1 Common ratio requirement 

for substantially all categories of capital adequacy (other than critically 
undercapitalized), increase the minimum Tier 1 Capital ratio requirement 

at each category, and introduce for Advanced Approaches insured depository 

institutions the Supplementary Leverage ratio as a metric, but only for 
the ﬁadequately capitalizedﬂ and ﬁundercapitalizedﬂ categories. These 
revisions will become effective on January 1, 2015, with the exception of the 
Supplementary Leverage ratio for Advanced Approaches insured depository 
institutions, for which January 1, 2018 is the effective date. Accordingly, 

beginning January 1, 2015, an insured depository institution, such as 
Citibank, N.A., would need minimum Tier 1 Common, Tier 1 Capital, Total 

Capital, and Tier 1 Leverage ratios of 6.5% (a new requirement), 8% (a 2% 

increase over the current requirement), 10%, and 5%, respectively, to be 

considered ﬁwell capitalized.ﬂDisclosure RequirementsThe Final Basel III Rules formally establish extensive qualitative and quantitative public disclosure requirements for substantially all U.S. banking 
organizations, as well as additional disclosures specifically required of 
Advanced Approaches banking organizations. The required disclosures are 
intended to provide transparency with respect to such regulatory capital 
aspects as capital structure, capital adequacy, capital buffers, credit risk, 

securitizations, operational risk, equities and interest rate risk. Qualitative 
disclosures that typically remain unchanged each quarter may be disclosed 
annually, however, any significant changes must be provided in the interim. 

Alternatively, quantitative disclosures must be provided quarterly. An 

Advanced Approaches banking organization is required to comply with the 
Advanced Approaches disclosures after exiting parallel run, unless it has not 
exited by the first quarter of 2015, in which case an Advanced Approaches 
banking organization is required to provide the disclosures set forth under 
the Standardized Approach until parallel run has been exited.Volcker Rule
In December 2013, the U.S. banking agencies, along with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
issued final rules to implement the so-called ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ of the Dodd-
Frank Act (Final Volcker Rule). Aside from provisions which prohibit 
ﬁbanking entitiesﬂ (i.e., insured depository institutions and their affiliates) 
from engaging in short-term proprietary trading, the Final Volcker Rule also 
imposes limitations on the extent to which banking entities are permitted to 
invest in certain ﬁcovered fundsﬂ (e.g., hedge funds and private equity funds) 
and requires that such investments be fully deducted from Tier 1 Capital. 
While the initial period within which banking entities have to become 
compliant with the covered fund investment provisions extends to July 21, 
2015, the timing as to the required Tier 1 Capital deduction, as well as the 
expected incorporation of this requirement into the Final Basel III Rules, are 
currently uncertain. For additional information on the Final Volcker Rule, 
see ﬁRisk FactorsŠRegulatory Risksﬂ below.Tangible Common Equity, Tangible Book Value Per Share 
and Book Value Per ShareTangible common equity (TCE), as currently defined by Citi, represents 
common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets (other than MSRs). 
Other companies may calculate TCE in a different manner. TCE, tangible 
book value per share and book value per share are non-GAAP financial 
measures. Citi believes these capital metrics provide useful information, as 
they are used by investors and industry analysts.In millions of dollars or shares, 
 
except per share amountsDecember 31,2013˜˚˛˚˝˙˚ˆˇTotal Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$204,339šˇ6,738Common equity$197,601š
25,009ˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇ5,056ˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ…
ˇŠ”˚“ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ†˙‡˚
ˇŠTangible common equity (TCE)
$167,536šCommon shares outstanding (CSO)3,029.2Book value per share (common equity/CSO)
$65.23šTangible book value per share (TCE/CSO)
$55.31š56RISK FACTORSThe following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, market and economic, liquidity, 
legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could 
impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. 
Other risk and uncertainties, including those not currently known to Citi 
or its management, could also negatively impact Citi™s businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be 
considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties Citi 
may face.REGULATORY RISKSCiti Faces Ongoing Significant Regulatory Changes and 
Uncertainties in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions in 
Which It Operates That Negatively Impact the Management 
of Its Businesses, Increase Its Compliance Risks and Costs 
and Could Adversely Affect Its Results of Operations.
Citi continues to be subject to a significant number of regulatory changes 
and uncertainties both in the U.S. and the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it 
operates. These changes and uncertainties emanate not only from financial 
crisis related reforms, including continued implementation of The Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank 
Act) in the U.S., but also reform proposals by national financial authorities 
and international standard setting bodies (such as the Financial Stability 
Board) as well as individual jurisdictions. The complexities and uncertainties 
arising from the volume of regulatory changes or proposals, across 
numerous regulatory bodies and jurisdictions, is further compounded by 
what appears to be an accelerating urgency to complete reforms and, in some 
cases, to do so in a manner that is the most advantageous or protectionist to 
the proposing jurisdiction.The complete scope and form of a number of regulatory initiatives are still being finalized and, even when finalized, will likely require 
significant interpretation and guidance. Moreover, the heightened regulatory 

environment has resulted not only in a tendency toward more regulation, 
but also in some cases toward the most prescriptive regulation as regulatory 
agencies have often taken a restrictive approach to rulemaking, interpretive 
guidance, approvals and their general ongoing supervisory or prudential 
authority. In addition, even when U.S. and international regulatory 

initiatives overlap, in many instances they have not been undertaken on a 
coordinated basis and areas of divergence have developed with respect to the 
scope, interpretation, timing, structure or approach, leading to additional, 
inconsistent or even conflicting regulations.Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties make Citi™s business 
planning difficult and could require Citi to change its business models or 
even its organizational structure, all of which could ultimately negatively 
impact Citi™s strategy and results of operations as well as realization of 

its deferred tax assets (DTAs). For example, regulators have proposed 
applying limits to certain concentrations of risk, such as through single 
counterparty credit limits, and implementation of such limits could require 
Citi to restructure client or counterparty relationships and could result in 
the potential loss of clients. Further, certain regulatory requirements could 

require Citi to create new subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions instead of 
its current branches, create subsidiaries to conduct particular businesses 
or operations (so-called ﬁsubsidiarizationﬂ), or impose additional capital 
or other requirements on branches in certain jurisdictions. This could, 
among other things, negatively impact Citi™s global capital and liquidity 

management and overall cost structure. Unless and until there is sufficient 
regulatory certainty, Citi™s business planning and/or proposed pricing for 

affected businesses necessarily include assumptions based on possible or 
proposed rules, requirements or outcomes, any of which could impede Citi™s 

ability to conduct its businesses effectively or comply with final requirements 
in a timely manner.
Business planning is further complicated by management™s continual 
need to review and evaluate the impact on Citi™s businesses of ongoing 

rule proposals, final rules and implementation guidance from numerous 
regulatory bodies worldwide, within compressed timeframes. In some cases, 
management™s implementation of a regulatory requirement and assessment 

of its impact is occurring simultaneously with legal challenges or legislative 
action to modify or repeal final rules, thus increasing management 
uncertainty. Moreover, recent regulatory guidance has focused on the need 

for financial institutions to perform increased due diligence and ongoing 
monitoring of third party vendor relationships, thus increasing the scope of 
management involvement and decreasing the efficiency otherwise resulting 
from these relationships. Citi must also spend significant time and resources 
managing the increased compliance risks and costs associated with ongoing 
global regulatory reforms. Citi has established various financial targets for 
2015, including efficiency and returns targets, as well as ongoing expense 
reduction initiatives. Ongoing regulatory changes and uncertainties 
require management to continually manage Citi™s expenses and potentially 

reallocate resources, including potentially away from ongoing business 
investment initiatives.Given the significant number of regulatory reform initiatives and continued uncertainty, it is not possible to determine the ultimate impact to 

Citi™s overall strategy, competitiveness and results of operations or, in many 

cases, its individual businesses.Despite the Issuance of Final U.S. Basel III Rules, There Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Regarding the 
Numerous Aspects of the Regulatory Capital Requirements 
Applicable to Citi and the Ultimate Impact of These 
Requirements on Citi™s Businesses, Products and Results 
of Operations.
Although the U.S. banking agencies issued final Basel III rules applicable 
to Citigroup and its depository institution subsidiaries, including Citibank, 57N.A., during 2013, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding numerous aspects of these and other regulatory capital requirements 
applicable to Citi and, as a result, the ultimate impact of these requirements 
on Citi.Citi™s estimated Basel III ratios and related components are based on 
its current interpretation, expectations and understanding of the final U.S. 
Basel III rules and are subject to, among other things, ongoing regulatory 
review, regulatory approval of Citi™s credit, market and operational Basel III 

risk models (as well as its market risk models under Basel II.5), additional 
refinements, modifications or enhancements (whether required or otherwise) 
to Citi™s models, and further implementation guidance in the U.S. Any 

modifications or requirements resulting from these ongoing reviews or the 
continued implementation of Basel III in the U.S. could result in changes 
in Citi™s risk-weighted assets or other elements involved in the calculation 

of Citi™s Basel III ratios, which could negatively impact Citi™s capital ratios 

and its ability to achieve its capital requirements as it projects or as required. 
Further, because operational risk is measured based not only upon Citi™s 

historical loss experience but also upon ongoing events in the banking industry generally, Citi™s level of operational risk-weighted assets could 

remain elevated for the foreseeable future, despite Citi™s continuing efforts to
 
reduce its risk-weighted assets and exposures.In addition, subsequent to the issuance of the final U.S. Basel III rules, the U.S. banking agencies proposed to amend the final U.S. Basel III rules to 
require the largest U.S. bank holding companies and their insured depository 
institution subsidiaries, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., to effectively 
maintain minimum Supplementary Leverage ratios (SLRs) of 5% and 6%, 
respectively, compared to the minimum 3% required under the final U.S. 

and Basel Committee Basel III rules. If adopted as proposed, the SLR, which 
was initially intended only to supplement the risk-based capital ratios, may 
become the binding regulatory capital constraint facing Citi and Citibank, 
N.A. In addition, when combined with the expected U.S. Tier 1 Common 

Capital ﬁglobal systemically important bankﬂ (G-SIB) surcharge and other 
capital requirements, Citi and Citibank, N.A. could be subject to higher 
capital requirements than many of their U.S. and non-U.S. competitors, 
leading to a potential competitive disadvantage and negative impact on Citi™s 

businesses and results of operations. Various proposals relating to the future liquidity standards or funding 
requirements applicable to U.S. financial institutions further contribute to 
the uncertainty regarding the future capital requirements applicable to Citi. 
For example, the proposed U.S. Basel III Liquidity Coverage ratio (LCR) rules 
would require Citi to hold additional high-quality liquid assets; however, 

this requirement would also serve to increase the denominator of the SLR 
and, as a result, increase the amount of Tier 1 Capital required to be held 

by Citi to meet the minimum SLR requirements. The Federal Reserve Board 
has also indicated it is considering proposals relating to the use of short-
term wholesale funding by U.S. financial institutions, particularly securities financing transactions (SFTs), which could include a capital surcharge 

based on the institution™s reliance on such funding, and/or increased capital 

requirements applicable to SFT matched books.As a result of these and other uncertainties arising from the ongoing implementation of Basel III and other current or potential capital 
requirements on a global basis, Citi™s capital planning and management 

remains challenging. It is also not possible to determine what the overall 
impact of these extensive regulatory capital changes will be on Citi™s 

competitive position (among both domestic and international peers), 
businesses, product offerings or results of operations. For additional information on the Basel III Rules and other capital and liquidity standards developments and requirements referenced above, 
see ﬁLiquidity Risksﬂ below and ﬁCapital ResourcesŠRegulatory Capital 
Standards Developmentsﬂ above.The Impact to Citi™s Derivatives Businesses and Results of Operations Resulting from the Ongoing Implementation 
of Derivatives Regulation in the U.S. and Globally 
Remains Uncertain.
The ongoing implementation of derivatives regulations in the U.S. under 
the Dodd-Frank Act as well as in non-U.S. jurisdictions has impacted, and 
will continue to substantially impact, the derivatives markets by, among 
other things: (i) requiring extensive regulatory and public price reporting 
of derivatives transactions; (ii) requiring a wide range of over-the-counter 
derivatives to be cleared through recognized clearing facilities and traded 
on exchanges or exchange-like facilities; (iii) requiring the collection 
and segregation of collateral for most uncleared derivatives (margin 
requirements); and (iv) significantly broadening limits on the size of 
positions that may be maintained in specified derivatives. These market 
structure reforms have and will likely continue to make trading in many 
derivatives products more costly, may significantly reduce the liquidity 
of certain derivatives markets and could diminish customer demand for 
covered derivatives. However, given the early stage of implementation of 
these U.S. and global reforms, including the additional rulemaking that 
may be or is required to occur and the ongoing significant interpretive issues 
across jurisdictions, the ultimate impact to Citi™s results of operations in its 
derivatives businesses remains uncertain.For example, in October 2013, certain CFTC rules relating to trading on a swap execution facility (SEF) became effective. As a result, certain non-U.S. 
trading platforms that do not want to register with the CFTC as a SEF are 
prohibiting firms with U.S. contacts, such as Citi, from trading on their 
non-U.S. platforms. This has resulted in some bifurcated client activity in 
the swaps marketplace, which could negatively impact Citi by reducing its 
access to non-U.S. platform client activity. Also in October 2013, the CFTC™s 

mandatory clearing requirements for the overseas branches of Citibank, 
N.A. became effective, and certain of Citi™s non-U.S. clients have ceased to 

clear their swaps with Citi given the mandatory requirement. More broadly, 
58under the CFTC™s cross-border guidance, overseas clients who transact their 
derivatives business with overseas branches of U.S. banks, including Citi, 
could be subject to additional U.S. registration and derivatives requirements, 
and these clients have expressed an unwillingness to continue to deal with 
overseas branches of U.S. banks as a result. These and similar issues could 
disproportionately impact Citi given its global footprint.Further, the European Union continues to finalize its European Market 
Infrastructure Regulation which would require, among other things, 
information on all European derivatives transactions be reported to trade 
repositories and certain counterparties to clear ﬁstandardizedﬂ derivatives 
contracts through central counterparties. Regulators in Asia also continue 
to finalize their derivatives reforms which, to date, have taken a different 
approach as compared to the EU or the U.S. Most of these non-U.S. reforms 
will take effect after the reforms in the U.S. and, as a result, it is uncertain to 
what extent the non-U.S. reforms will impose different, additional or even 
inconsistent requirements on Citi™s derivatives activities.
The Dodd-Frank Act also contains a so-called ﬁpush-outﬂ provision that, to date, has generally been interpreted to prevent FDIC-insured depository 
institutions from dealing in certain equity, commodity and credit-

related derivatives. The ultimate scope of this provision and its potential 
consequences are not certain as rulemaking has not yet been completed. 
While this push-out provision was to be effective July 2013, U.S. regulators 
were permitted to grant up to an initial two-year transition period to affected 
depository institutions, and in June 2013, Citi, like other U.S. depository 
institutions, received approval for an initial two-year transition period for 
Citibank, N.A., its primary insured depository institution.Citi currently conducts a substantial portion of its derivatives-dealing activities within and outside the U.S. through Citibank, N.A. The costs of 
revising customer relationships and modifying the organizational structure 
of Citi™s businesses or the subsidiaries engaged in these businesses, and 

the reaction of Citi™s clients to the potential bifurcation of their derivatives 

portfolios between Citibank, N.A. and another Citi affiliate for pushed-out 
derivatives, remain unknown. To the extent that certain of Citi™s competitors 

already conduct these derivatives activities outside of FDIC-insured depository 
institutions, Citi would be disproportionately impacted by any required 
restructuring. Moreover, the extent to which Citi™s non-U.S. operations will be 

impacted by the push-out provision remains unclear, and it is possible that 

Citi could lose market share in its derivatives business or client relationships 
in jurisdictions where foreign bank competitors can operate without the same 

constraints.While the implementation and effectiveness of individual derivatives reforms may not in every case be significant, the cumulative impact of these 
reforms is uncertain and could be material to Citi™s results of operations and 

competitiveness in these businesses.In addition, numerous aspects of the new derivatives regime require extensive compliance systems and processes to be put in place and maintained, including electronic recordkeeping, real-time public transaction 
reporting and external business conduct requirements (e.g., required 
swap counterparty disclosures). These requirements have necessitated 
the installation of extensive technological, operational and compliance 
infrastructure, and Citi™s failure to effectively maintain such systems could 

subject it to increased compliance costs and regulatory and reputational 
risks. Moreover, these new derivatives-related systems and infrastructure 

will likely become the basis on which institutions such as Citi compete for 
clients. To the extent that Citi™s connectivity, product offerings or services 

for clients in these businesses is deficient, this could negatively impact Citi™s 

competitiveness and results of operations in these businesses.It Is Uncertain What Impact the Restrictions on Proprietary Trading Activities under the Volcker Rule Will Have on 
Citi™s Global Market-Making Businesses and Results 
of Operations, and Implementation of the Final Rules 
Subjects Citi to Compliance Risks and Costs.
The ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are intended in part 
to prohibit the proprietary trading activities of institutions such as Citi. On 
December 10, 2013, the five regulatory agencies required to adopt rules 
to implement the Volcker Rule adopted a final rule. Although the rules 
implementing the Volcker Rule have been finalized, and the conformance 
period has been extended to July 2015, the final rules will require extensive 
regulatory interpretation and supervisory oversight, including coordination 
of this interpretive guidance and oversight among the five regulatory 
agencies implementing the rules.As a result, the degree to which Citi™s market-making activities will be 
permitted to continue in their current form, and the potential impact to Citi™s 

results of operations from these businesses, remains uncertain. In addition, 
the final rules and restrictions imposed will affect Citi™s trading activities 

globally and, thus, will impact it disproportionately in comparison to foreign 
financial institutions that will not be subject to the Volcker Rule with respect 

to all of their activities outside of the U.S., further increasing the uncertainty 
of the impact to Citi™s results of operations.
While the final rules contain exceptions for market-making, underwriting, risk-mitigating hedging, and certain transactions on behalf 
of customers and activities in certain asset classes, and require that certain 
of these activities be designed not to encourage or reward ﬁproprietary risk 
taking,ﬂ it remains unclear how these exceptions will be interpreted and 
administered. Absent further regulatory guidance, Citi is required to make 
certain assumptions as to the degree to which Citi™s activities in these areas 

will be permitted to continue in their current form. If these assumptions are 
not accurate, Citi could be subject to increased compliance risks and costs. 
Moreover, the final rules require an extensive compliance regime for the 

ﬁpermittedﬂ activities under the Volcker Rule, including documentation of 

historical trading activities with clients, regulatory reporting, recordkeeping 

and similar requirements, with certain of these requirements effective 
59in July
 2014. If Citi™s
 implementation of this compliance regime is not consistent with regulatory expectations, this could further increase its compliance risks and costs.As in other areas of ongoing regulatory reform, alternative proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading are developing in non-U.S. jurisdictions, 
leading to overlapping or potentially conflicting regimes. For example, in 
the EU, the ﬁLiikanen Reportﬂ on bank structural reform has been reflected 
in the recent European Commission proposal (the so-called ﬁBarnier 
Proposalﬂ), which would prohibit proprietary trading by in-scope credit 
institutions and banking groups, such as certain of Citi™s EU branches, and 

potentially require the mandatory separation of certain trading activities into 
a trading entity legally, economically and operationally separate from the 

legal entity holding the banking activities of a firm.It is likely that, given Citi™s worldwide operations, some form of these or 
other proposals for the regulation of proprietary trading will eventually be 
applicable to a portion of Citi™s operations. While the Volcker Rule and these 

non-U.S. proposals are intended to address similar concernsŠ separating 
the perceived risks of proprietary trading and certain other investment 
banking activities in order not to affect more traditional banking and retail 
activitiesŠthey would do so under different structures, which could result in 
inconsistent regulatory regimes and additional compliance risks and costs for 
Citi in light of its global activities.Requirements in the U.S. and Non-U.S. Jurisdictions to Facilitate the Future Orderly Resolution of Large 
Financial Institutions Could Require Citi to Restructure 
or Reorganize Its Businesses or Change Its Capital or 
Funding Structure in Ways That Could Negatively Impact Its 
Operations or Strategy.
Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires Citi to prepare and submit annually 
a plan for the orderly resolution of Citigroup (the bank holding company) 
and its significant legal entities under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other 
applicable insolvency law in the event of future material financial distress or 
failure. Citi is also required to prepare and submit an annual resolution plan 
for its primary insured depository institution subsidiary, Citibank, N.A., and 
to demonstrate how Citibank is adequately protected from the risks presented 
by non-bank affiliates. These plans must include information on resolution 
strategy, major counterparties and interdependencies, among other things, 
and require substantial effort, time and cost across all of Citi™s businesses 
and geographies. These resolution plans are subject to review by the Federal 
Reserve Board and the FDIC. Citi submitted its resolution plan for 2013, 
including the resolution plan for Citibank, N.A., in September 2013.If the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC both determine that Citi™s 
resolution plan is not ﬁcredibleﬂ (which, although not defined, is generally 
believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plan is feasible or 
would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve Citi in a way that protects 
systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption), 
and Citi does not remedy the identified deficiencies in the plan within the required time period, Citi could be required to restructure or reorganize 
businesses, legal entities, operational systems and/or intracompany 
transactions in ways that could negatively impact its operations and strategy, 

or be subject to restrictions on growth. Citi could also eventually be subjected 
to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or be required to 
divest certain assets or operations. In addition, other jurisdictions, such as the U.K., have requested or are expected to request resolution plans from financial institutions, including 
Citi, and the requirements and timing relating to these plans are or are 
expected to be different from the U.S. requirements and from each other. 

Responding to these additional requests will require additional effort, time 
and cost, and regulatory review and requirements in these jurisdictions could 
be in addition to, or conflict with, changes required by Citi™s regulators in 

the U.S. Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act grants the FDIC the authority, under certain 
circumstances, to resolve systemically important financial institutions, 
including Citi. In connection with this authority, in December 2013, the FDIC 

released a notice describing its preferred single point of entry strategy for 
resolving systemically important financial institutions. In furtherance of this 
strategy, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it expects to propose 

minimum levels of unsecured long-term debt required for bank holding 
companies, as well as guidelines defining the terms or composition of 
qualifying debt instruments, to ensure that adequate resources are available 
at the holding company to resolve a systemically important financial 
institution if necessary. To the extent that these future requirements differ 

from Citi™s current funding profile, Citi may need to increase its aggregate 

long-term debt levels and/or alter the composition and terms of its debt, 
which could lead to increased costs of funds and have a negative impact 
on its net interest revenue, among other potential impacts. Additionally, if 

any final rules require compliance on an accelerated timeline, the resulting 
increased issuance volume may further increase Citi™s cost of funds. 

Furthermore, Citi could be at a competitive disadvantage versus financial 
institutions that are not subject to such minimum debt requirements, such 
as non-regulated financial intermediaries, smaller financial institutions and 
entities in jurisdictions with less onerous or no such requirements.Additional Regulations with Respect to Securitizations Will Impose Additional Costs and May Prevent Citi from 
Performing Certain Roles in Securitizations.
Citi plays a variety of roles in asset securitization transactions, including 
acting as underwriter of asset-backed securities, depositor of the underlying 
assets into securitization vehicles, trustee to securitization vehicles and 
counterparty to securitization vehicles under derivative contracts. The Dodd-Frank Act contains a number of provisions that affect securitizations. These provisions, which in some cases will require multi-regulatory agency 
implementation and will largely be applicable across asset classes, include 
a prohibition on securitization participants engaging in transactions 
that would involve a material conflict of interest with investors in the 60securitization and, in certain transactions, a retention requirement by securitizers of an unhedged exposure to at least 5% of the economic risk 
of the securitized assets. Regulations implementing these provisions have 
been proposed but in many cases have not yet been adopted. The SEC also 
has proposed additional extensive regulation of both publicly and privately 
offered securitization transactions through revisions to the registration, 
disclosure and reporting requirements for asset-backed securities and other 
structured finance products. Moreover, the final U.S. Basel III capital rules 
will increase the capital required to be held by Citi against various exposures 
to securitizations.The cumulative effect of these extensive regulatory changes, as well as other potential future regulatory changes, cannot currently be assessed. 
It is likely, however, that these various measures will increase the costs or 

decrease the attractiveness of executing certain securitization transactions, 
and could effectively limit Citi™s overall volume of, and the role Citi may play 

in, securitizations and make it impractical for Citi to execute certain types 
of securitization transactions it previously executed. As a result, these effects 
could impair Citi™s ability to continue to earn income from these transactions 

or could hinder Citi™s ability to use such transactions to hedge risks, reduce 

exposures or reduce assets with adverse risk-weighting in its businesses, 
and those consequences could affect the conduct of these businesses. In 
addition, certain sectors of the securitization markets, particularly residential 
mortgage-backed securitizations, have been inactive or experienced 
dramatically diminished transaction volumes since the financial crisis. 
The impact of various regulatory reform measures could adversely impact 
any future recovery of these sectors of the securitization markets and, thus, 
the opportunities for Citi to participate in securitization transactions in 
such sectors.MARKET AND ECONOMIC RISKSThe Continued Uncertainty Relating to the Sustainability 
and Pace of Economic Recovery in the U.S. and Globally, 
Including in the Emerging Markets, Could Have a Negative 
Impact on Citi™s Businesses and Results of Operations. 
Moreover, Any Significant Global Economic Downturn or 
Disruption, Including a Significant Decline in Global Trade 
Volumes, Could Materially and Adversely Impact Citi™s 
Businesses, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. 
Citi™s businesses have been, and could continue to be, negatively impacted by 
the uncertainty surrounding the sustainability and pace of economic recovery 
in the U.S., as well as globally. Fiscal and monetary actions taken by U.S. and 
non-U.S. government and regulatory authorities to spur economic growth 
or otherwise, including by maintaining or increasing interest rates, can also 
impact Citi™s businesses and results of operations. For example, changing 
expectations regarding the Federal Reserve Board™s tapering of quantitative 
easing has impacted market and customer activity as well as trading volumes which has negatively impacted the results of operations for Securities and Banking, and could continue to do so in the future.Additionally, given its global focus, Citi could be disproportionately 
impacted as compared to its competitors by any impact of government or 
regulatory policies or economic conditions in the international and/or 
emerging markets (which Citi generally defines as the markets in Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), the Middle East, Africa and 
central and eastern European countries in EMEA and the markets in Latin 
America). Countries such as India, Singapore, Hong Kong, Brazil and China, 
each of which are part of Citi™s emerging markets strategy, have recently 

experienced uncertainty over the potential impact of further tapering by the 
Federal Reserve Board and/or the extent of future economic growth. Actual 
or perceived impacts or a slowdown in growth in these and other emerging 
markets could negatively impact Citi™s businesses and results of operations. 

Further, if a particular country™s economic situation were to deteriorate below 

a certain level, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss and other 
reserve requirements on Citi, which could negatively impact its earnings, 
perhaps significantly.
Moreover, if a severe global economic downturn or other major economic 
disruption were to occur, including a significant decline in global trade 

volumes, Citi would likely experience substantial loan and other losses and 
be required to significantly increase its loan loss reserves, among other 
impacts. A global trade disruption that results in a permanently reduced 
level of trade volumes and increased costs of global trade, whether as a 
result of a prolonged ﬁtrade warﬂ or some other reason, could significantly 
impact trade financing activities, certain trade dependent economies (such 
as the emerging markets in Asia), and certain industries heavily dependent 
on trade, among other things. Given Citi™s global strategy and focus on the 

emerging markets, such a downturn and decrease in global trade volumes 
could materially and adversely impact Citi™s businesses, results of operation 

and financial condition, particularly as compared to its competitors. This 
could include, among other things, the potential that a portion of any such 
losses would not be tax benefitted, given the current environment. Concerns About the Level of U.S. Government Debt and a Downgrade (or a Further Downgrade) of the U.S. 
Government Credit Rating Could Negatively Impact Citi™s 
Businesses, Results of Operations, Capital, Funding 
and Liquidity.
Concerns about the overall level of U.S. government debt and/or a U.S. 
government default, as well as uncertainty relating to actions that may or 
may not be taken to address these and related issues, have adversely affected, 
and could continue to adversely affect, U.S. and global financial markets, economic conditions and Citi™s businesses and results of operations.The credit rating agencies have also expressed concerns about these issues and have taken actions to downgrade and/or place the long-term sovereign credit rating of the U.S. government on negative outlook. A future downgrade 61(or further downgrade) of U.S. debt obligations or U.S. government-related obligations, or concerns that such a downgrade might occur, could negatively 

impact Citi™s ability to obtain funding collateralized by such obligations and 

the pricing of such funding, as well as the pricing or availability of Citi™s 

funding as a U.S. financial institution, among other impacts. Any further 
downgrade could also have a negative impact on U.S. and global financial 
markets and economic conditions generally and, as a result, could have a 
negative impact on Citi™s businesses, results of operations, capital, funding 

and liquidity.
Citi™s Extensive Global Network Subjects It to Various International and Emerging Markets Risks as well as 
Increased Compliance and Regulatory Risks and Costs.
During 2013, international revenues accounted for approximately 59% 
of Citi™s total revenues. In addition, revenues from the emerging markets 
accounted for approximately 41% of Citi™s total revenues in 2013.Citi™s extensive global network subjects it to a number of risks associated 
with international and emerging markets, including, among others, 
sovereign volatility, political events, foreign exchange controls, limitations 

on foreign investment, sociopolitical instability, fraud, nationalization, 

closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of assets. For example, 
Citi operates in several countries, such as Argentina and Venezuela, with 

strict foreign exchange controls that limit its ability to convert local currency 
into U.S. dollars and/or transfer funds outside the country. In such cases, 

Citi could be exposed to a risk of loss in the event that the local currency 
devalues as compared to the U.S. dollar (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠ
Cross-Border Riskﬂ below). There have also been instances of political 
turmoil and other instability in some of the countries in which Citi operates, 
including in certain countries in the Middle East and Africa, to which Citi 
has responded by transferring assets and relocating staff members to more 
stable jurisdictions. Similar incidents in the future could place Citi™s staff and 

operations in danger and may result in financial losses, some significant, 
including nationalization of Citi™s assets.
Citi™s extensive global operations also increase its compliance and 
regulatory risks and costs. For example, Citi™s operations in emerging 

markets, including facilitating cross-border transactions on behalf of its 
clients, subject it to higher compliance risks under U.S. regulations primarily 
focused on various aspects of global corporate activities, such as anti-money-
laundering regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks 
can be more acute in less developed markets and thus require substantial 
investment in compliance infrastructure or could result in a reduction in 
certain of Citi™s business activities. In addition, any failure by Citi to comply 

with applicable U.S. regulations, as well as the regulations in the countries 
and markets in which it operates as a result of its global footprint, could 
result in fines, penalties, injunctions or other similar restrictions, any of 
which could negatively impact Citi™s earnings and its reputation. Citi also 

provides a wide range of financial products and services to the U.S. and other governments, to multi-national corporations and other businesses, and to 
prominent individuals and families around the world. The actions of these 
clients involving the use of Citi products or services could result in an adverse 
impact on Citi, including adverse regulatory and reputational impact.There Continues to Be Uncertainty Relating to Ongoing Economic and Fiscal Issues in the Eurozone, Including 
the Potential Outcomes That Could Occur and the Impact 
Those Outcomes Could Have on Citi™s Businesses, Results of 
Operations or Financial Condition.
Several European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal 
and Spain (GIIPS), have been the subject of credit deterioration due 
to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. Concerns have 
been raised, both within the European Monetary Union (EMU) as well 
as internationally, as to the financial, political and legal effectiveness 
of measures taken to date, the ability of these countries to adhere to any 
required austerity, reform or similar measures and the potential impact of 
these measures on economic growth or recession, as well as deflation, in 
the region.There have also been concerns that these issues could lead to a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The exit of one or more member countries 
from the EMU could result in certain obligations relating to the exiting 
country being redenominated from the Euro to a new country currency. 

Redenomination could be accompanied by immediate revaluation of 
the new currency as compared to the Euro and the U.S. dollar, the extent 

of which would depend on the particular facts and circumstances. Any 
such redenomination/revaluation could cause significant legal and other 
uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and 
debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise, and could 

lead to complex, lengthy litigation. Redenomination/revaluation could also 
be accompanied by the imposition of exchange and/or capital controls, 
required functional currency changes and ﬁdeposit flight.ﬂThese ongoing uncertainties have caused, and could in the future cause, disruptions in the global financial markets and concerns regarding potential 
impacts to the global economy generally, particularly if sovereign debt 

defaults, significant bank failures or defaults and/or a partial or complete 
break-up of the EMU were to occur. These ongoing issues, or a worsening of 

these issues, could negatively impact Citi™s businesses, results of operations 

and financial condition, particularly given its global footprint and strategy, 

both directly through its own exposures as well as indirectly. For example, 

Citi has previously experienced widening of its credit spreads and thus 
increased costs of funding due to concerns about its Eurozone exposure. In 
addition, U.S. regulators could impose mandatory loan loss and other reserve 
requirements on U.S. financial institutions, including Citi, if a particular 
country™s economic situation deteriorates below a certain level, which could 

negatively impact Citi™s earnings, perhaps significantly.
62LIQUIDITY RISKSThere Continues to Be Significant Uncertainty Regarding the Future Quantitative Liquidity Requirements Applicable 
to Citi and the Ultimate Impact of These Requirements on 
Citi™s Liquidity Planning, Management and Funding.
In 2010, the Basel Committee introduced an international framework for new 
Basel III quantitative liquidity requirements, including a Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR) and a Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) and, in January 2013, 
the Basel Committee adopted final Basel III LCR rules (for additional 
information on Citi™s estimated LCR as of December 31, 2013, as calculated 
under the final Basel III LCR rules, as well as the Basel Committee™s NSFR 
framework, see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and 
Liquidityﬂ below).In October 2013, the U.S. banking agencies proposed rules with respect to the U.S. Basel III LCR. The proposed U.S. Basel III LCR is more stringent than 
the final Basel III LCR in several areas, including a (i) narrower definition of 
ﬁhigh-quality liquid assetsﬂ (HQLA), particularly with respect to investment 
grade credit, (ii) potentially more severe standard for calculating net cash 
outflows under the LCR and (iii) shorter timeline for implementation (full 
compliance with the U.S. Basel III LCR by January 2017, versus January 
2019 for the Basel III LCR). With respect to the computation of net cash 
outflows, the U.S. Basel III LCR proposal prescribes more conservative 
outflow assumptions for certain types of funding sources (in particular, for 

deposits) as compared to the final Basel III LCR rules. The U.S. Basel III LCR 
proposal would also require covered firms, including Citi and Citibank, N.A., 
to adopt a daily net cash flow calculation (the dollar amount on the day 
within a 30-day stress period that has the highest amount of net cumulative 
cash outflows) as opposed to the Basel Committee cumulative calculation at 
the end of the 30-day period. Covered firms would also be required to use the 
most conservative assumptions regarding when an inflow or outflow would 
occur (i.e., for instruments or transactions with no or variable maturity 
dates, the earliest possible date for outflows (e.g., day one) and the latest 
possible date for inflows (e.g., day 30)).There continues to be significant uncertainty across the industry regarding the interpretation and implementation of the net cash outflows 
provisions of the U.S. Basel III LCR proposal. Depending on how these 
interpretive and other issues are resolved, Citi™s Basel III LCR under the 

proposed U.S. rules could decrease, perhaps significantly, as compared 

to Citi™s estimated Basel III LCR under the final Basel III rules. The 

implementation of the proposed U.S. Basel III LCR could also impact the way 
Citi manages its liquidity position, including the composition of its liquid 
assets and its liabilities, as well as require it to implement and maintain 
extensive compliance policies, procedures and systems to determine the 
composition and amount of HQLA on a daily basis.Regarding the Basel III NSFR, in January 2014, the Basel Committee issued a revised framework for the calculation of a financial institution™s 
NSFR. This framework remains subject to comment and is expected to be 
followed by a proposal by the U.S. banking agencies to implement the Basel 
III NSFR in the U.S. In addition to the LCR and NSFR, the Federal Reserve 
Board has indicated it is considering various initiatives to limit short-term 
funding risks, including further increases in the liquidity requirements 
applicable to securities financing transactions (SFTs), such as requiring 

larger liquidity buffers for firms with large amounts of SFTs, and/or 

mandatory margin or haircut requirements on SFTs. 
As a result, there is significant uncertainty regarding the calculation, scope, implementation and timing of Citi™s future liquidity standards and 

requirements, and the ultimate impact of these requirements on Citi, its 
liquidity planning, management and funding. While uncertain, Citi could 
be required to increase the level of its deposits and debt funding, which could 
increase its Consolidated Balance Sheet and negatively impact its net interest 
revenue. Moreover, similar to the U.S. Basel III LCR proposal, to the extent 

other jurisdictions propose or adopt quantitative liquidity requirements 
that differ from the Basel Committee™s or the U.S. requirements, Citi could 

be at a competitive disadvantage because of its global footprint or could be 
required to meet different minimum liquidity standards in some or all of the 
jurisdictions in which it operates.For a discussion of the potential negative impacts to Citi™s ability to meet 
its regulatory capital requirements as a result of certain of these liquidity 
proposals, see ﬁRegulatory Risksﬂ above.The Maintenance of Adequate Liquidity and Funding Depends on Numerous Factors, Including Those Outside of 
Citi™s Control, Such as Market Disruptions and Increases in 
Citi™s Credit Spreads.
As a global financial institution, adequate liquidity and sources of funding 
are essential to Citi™s businesses. Citi™s liquidity and sources of funding can 
be significantly and negatively impacted by factors it cannot control, such 
as general disruptions in the financial markets, governmental fiscal and 
monetary policies, or negative investor perceptions of Citi™s creditworthiness. 
Market perception of sovereign default risks can also lead to inefficient 
money markets and capital markets, which could further impact Citi™s 
availability and cost of funding.In addition, Citi™s cost and ability to obtain deposits, secured funding and 
long-term unsecured funding from the credit and capital markets are directly 
related to its credit spreads. Changes in credit spreads constantly occur 
and are market-driven, including both external market factors and factors 
specific to Citi, and can be highly volatile. Citi™s credit spreads may also be 

influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit default swaps 
referenced to Citi™s long-term debt, which are also impacted by these external 

and Citi-specific factors. Moreover, Citi™s ability to obtain funding may be 

impaired if other market participants are seeking to access the markets at the 
same time, or if market appetite is reduced, as is likely to occur in a liquidity 
or other market crisis. In addition, clearing organizations, regulators, clients 63and financial institutions with which Citi interacts may exercise the right to require additional collateral based on these market perceptions or market 
conditions, which could further impair Citi™s access to and cost of funding.
As a holding company, Citi relies on dividends, distributions and other 
payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends as well as to satisfy its debt 
and other obligations. Several of Citi™s subsidiaries are subject to capital 

adequacy or other regulatory or contractual restrictions on their ability to 
provide such payments. Limitations on the payments that Citi receives from 
its subsidiaries could also impact its liquidity.
The Credit Rating Agencies Continuously Review the Ratings of Citi and Certain of Its Subsidiaries, and 
Reductions in Citi™s or Its More Significant Subsidiaries™ 
Credit Ratings Could Have a Negative Impact on Citi™s 
Funding and Liquidity Due to Reduced Funding Capacity 
and Increased Funding Costs, Including Derivatives 
Triggers That Could Require Cash Obligations or 
Collateral Requirements.
The credit rating agencies, such as Fitch, Moody™s and S&P, continuously 
evaluate Citi and certain of its subsidiaries, and their ratings of Citi™s and 
its more significant subsidiaries™ long-term/senior debt and short-term/ 
commercial paper, as applicable, are based on a number of factors, including 

standalone financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within the 
control of Citi and its subsidiaries, such as the agencies™ proprietary rating 
agency methodologies and assumptions, the rating agencies™ ﬁgovernment 
support upliftﬂ assumptions, and conditions affecting the financial services 
industry and markets generally.Citi and its subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their current respective ratings. A ratings downgrade by Fitch, Moody™s or S&P could 

negatively impact Citi™s ability to access the capital markets and other sources 

of funds as well as the costs of those funds, and its ability to maintain certain 
deposits. A ratings downgrade could also have a negative impact on Citi™s 

funding and liquidity due to reduced funding capacity, including derivative 

triggers, which could take the form of cash obligations and collateral 
requirements. In addition, a ratings downgrade could also have a negative 
impact on other funding sources, such as secured financing and other 
margined transactions for which there are no explicit triggers, as well as on 
contractual provisions which contain minimum ratings thresholds in order 
for Citi to hold third-party funds.Moreover, credit ratings downgrades can have impacts which may 
not be currently known to Citi or which are not possible to quantify. For 

example, some entities may have ratings limitations as to their permissible 
counterparties, of which Citi may or may not be aware. In addition, certain 
of Citi™s corporate customers and trading counterparties, among other clients, 

could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi and limit the trading 
of certain contracts or market instruments with Citi in response to ratings 
downgrades. Changes in customer and counterparty behavior could impact 
not only Citi™s funding and liquidity but also the results of operations of 
certain Citi businesses. For additional information on the potential impact of 
a reduction in Citi™s or Citibank, N.A.™s credit ratings, see ﬁManaging Global 

RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and LiquidityŠCredit Ratingsﬂ below.
LEGAL RISKSCiti Is Subject to Extensive Legal and Regulatory 
Proceedings, Investigations, and Inquiries That Could 
Result in Substantial Losses. These Matters Are Often 
Highly Complex and Slow to Develop, and Results Are 
Difficult to Predict or Estimate.
At any given time, Citi is defending a significant number of legal and 
regulatory proceedings and is subject to numerous governmental and 
regulatory examinations, investigations and other inquiries. These 
proceedings, examinations, investigations and inquiries could result, 
individually or collectively, in substantial losses.In the wake of the financial crisis of 2007-2009, the frequency with 
which such proceedings, investigations and inquiries are initiated, and 

the severity of the remedies sought (and in some cases obtained), have 

increased substantially, and the global judicial, regulatory and political 

environment has generally become more hostile to large financial 

institutions such as Citi. Many of the proceedings, investigations and 

inquiries involving Citi relating to events before or during the financial 

crisis have not yet been resolved, and additional proceedings, investigations 

and inquiries relating to such events may still be commenced. In addition, 

heightened expectations of the financial services industry by regulators 

and other enforcement authorities have led to renewed scrutiny of long-
standing industry practices, and this heightened scrutiny could lead to 

more regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. The complexity of 

the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., 

coupled with the global scope of Citi™s operations and the increasing 

aggressiveness of the regulatory environment worldwide, also means that a 

single event may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations 

and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies 

in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in 

different jurisdictions.For example, Citi is currently subject to extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating to its historical mortgage-
related activities, including claims regarding the accuracy of offering 
documents for residential mortgage-backed securities and alleged breaches 
of representation and warranties relating to the sale of mortgage loans or the 
placement of mortgage loans into securitization trusts. Citi is also subject to 
extensive legal and regulatory inquiries, actions and investigations relating 
to, among other things, Citi™s contribution to, or trading in products linked 

to, rates or benchmarks. These rates and benchmarks may relate to interest 
rates (such as the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or ISDAFIX), 

foreign exchange rates (such as the WM/Reuters fix), or other prices. Like 
other banks with operations in the U.S., Citi is also subject to continuing 64oversight by the OCC and other bank regulators, and inquiries and investigations by other governmental and regulatory authorities, with respect 
to its anti-money laundering program. Other institutions subject to similar 
or the same inquiries, actions or investigations as those above have incurred 
substantial liability in relation to their activities in these areas, including in a 
few cases criminal convictions or deferred prosecution agreements respecting 
corporate entities as well as substantial fines and penalties.Moreover, regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act 
and other recent regulatory changes - such as the limitations on federal 
preemption in the consumer arena, the creation of the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau with its own examination and enforcement authority and 
enhanced consumer protections globally, as well as the ﬁwhistle-blowerﬂ 

provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act - could further increase the number of 
legal and regulatory proceedings against Citi. In addition, while Citi takes 
numerous steps to prevent and detect employee misconduct, such as fraud, 
employee misconduct cannot always be deterred or prevented and could 
subject Citi to additional liability or losses.These matters have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, significant time, expense and diversion of management™s attention. In 

addition, they may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, 
restitution, disgorgement, injunctions, business improvement orders or 
other results adverse to it, which could materially and negatively affect Citi™s 

businesses, business practices, financial condition or results of operations, 
require material changes in Citi™s operations, or cause Citi reputational 

harm. Moreover, many large claims asserted against Citi are highly complex 

and slow to develop, and they may involve novel or untested legal theories. 
The outcome of such proceedings is difficult to predict or estimate until 
late in the proceedings, which may last several years. In addition, certain 
settlements are subject to court approval and may not be approved. Although 
Citi establishes accruals for its legal and regulatory matters according to 
accounting requirements, the amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation 
to those matters may be substantially higher than the amounts accrued.For additional information relating to Citi™s legal and regulatory 
proceedings, see Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKSCiti™s Results of Operations Could Be Negatively Impacted 
as Its Revolving Home Equity Lines of Credit Begin 
to ﬁReset.ﬂ
As of December 31, 2013, Citi™s home equity loan portfolio of approximately 
$31.6 billion included approximately $18.9 billion of home equity lines of 
credit that were still within their revolving period and had not commenced 
amortization, or ﬁresetﬂ (Revolving HELOCs). Of these Revolving HELOCs, 
approximately 72% will commence amortization during the period 
of 2015-2017.Before commencing amortization, Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans. Upon amortization, these borrowers will be required to pay both interest, typically at a variable rate, 
and principal that amortizes over 20 years, rather than the typical 30-year 
amortization. As a result, Citi™s customers with Revolving HELOCs that reset 

could experience ﬁpayment shockﬂ due to the higher required payments on 
the loans. Increases in interest rates could further increase these payments, 
given the variable nature of the interest rates on these loans post-reset.Based on the limited number of Citi™s Revolving HELOCs that have reset 
as of December 31, 2013, Citi has experienced a higher 30+ days past due 
delinquency rate on its amortizing home equity loans as compared to its total 
outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). 
These resets have generally occurred during a period of declining interest 
rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall payment shock to 
borrowers. While Citi continues to review its options, increasing interest rates, 
stricter lending criteria and borrower loan-to-value positions could limit 
Citi™s ability to reduce or mitigate this reset risk going forward. Accordingly, 

as these loans begin to reset, Citi could experience higher delinquency rates 
and increased loan loss reserves and net credit losses in future periods, which 
could be significant and would negatively impact its results of operations.For additional information on Citi™s Revolving HELOCs portfolio, see 
ﬁManaging Global RiskŠCredit RiskŠNorth America Consumer Mortgage 
Lendingﬂ below.
Citi™s Ability to Return Capital to Shareholders Substantially Depends on the CCAR Process and the Results 
of Required Regulatory Stress Tests.
In addition to Board of Directors™ approval, any decision by Citi to return 
capital to shareholders, whether through an increase in its common stock 
dividend or through a share repurchase program, substantially depends 
on regulatory approval, including through the annual Comprehensive 
Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal Reserve 
Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. 
Restrictions on Citi™s ability to return capital to shareholders as a result of 
these processes has negatively impacted market perceptions of Citi, and could 
do so in the future.Citi™s ability to accurately predict or explain to stakeholders the outcome 
of the CCAR process, and thus address any such market perceptions, may 
be complicated by the Federal Reserve Board™s evolving criteria employed 

in its overall aggregate assessment of Citi. The Federal Reserve Board™s 

assessment of Citi is conducted not only by using the Board™s proprietary 

stress test models, but also a number of qualitative factors, including a 
detailed assessment of Citi™s ﬁcapital adequacy process,ﬂ as defined by the 

Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that it expects 
leading capital adequacy practices will continue to evolve and will likely be 
determined by the Federal Reserve Board each year as a result of the Board™s 

cross-firm review of capital plan submissions.Similarly, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that, as part of its stated 
goal to continually evolve its annual stress testing requirements, several 65parameters of the annual stress testing process may be altered from time to time, including the severity of the stress test scenario, Federal Reserve Board 
modeling of Citi™s balance sheet and the addition of components deemed 

important by the Federal Reserve Board (e.g., a counterparty failure). These 
parameter alterations are difficult to predict and may limit Citi™s ability 

to return capital to shareholders and address perceptions about Citi in the 
market. Because it is not clear how the Federal Reserve Board™s proprietary 

stress test models and qualitative assessment may differ from the modeling 
techniques and capital planning practices employed by Citi, it is likely that 
Citi™s stress test results (using its own models, estimation methodologies and 

processes) may not be consistent with those disclosed by the Federal Reserve 
Board, thus potentially leading to additional confusion and impacts to Citi™s 

perception in the market.Citi™s Ability to Achieve Its 2015 Financial Targets Will Depend in Part on the Successful Achievement of Its 
Execution Priorities. 
In March 2013, Citi established certain financial targets for 2015. Citi™s 
ability to achieve these targets will depend in part on the successful 
achievement of its execution priorities, including: efficient resource 
allocation, including disciplined expense management; a continued focus 
on the wind-down of Citi Holdings and getting Citi Holdings to ﬁbreak evenﬂ; 
and utilization of its DTAs (see below). Citi™s ability to achieve its targets 
will also depend on factors it cannot control, such as ongoing regulatory 
changes and macroeconomic conditions. While Citi continues to take 
actions to achieve its execution priorities, there is no guarantee that Citi will 
be successful.Citi continues to pursue its disciplined expense-management strategy, 
including re-engineering, restructuring operations and improving efficiency. 

However, there is no guarantee that Citi will be able to reduce its level 

of expenses, as a result of announced repositioning actions, efficiency 
initiatives, or otherwise. Citi™s expenses also depend, in part, on factors 

outside of its control. For example, Citi is subject to extensive legal and 
regulatory proceedings and inquiries, and its legal and related costs remain 
elevated. Moreover, investments Citi has made in its businesses, or may make 

in the future, may not be as productive or effective as Citi expects or at all.In addition, while Citi has made significant progress in reducing the assets (including risk-weighted assets) in Citi Holdings, the pace of the 
wind-down of the remaining assets has slowed as Citi has disposed of many 
of the larger businesses within this segment and the remaining assets largely 
consist of legacy U.S. mortgages with an estimated weighted average life 
of six years. While Citi™s strategy continues to be to reduce the remaining 

assets in Citi Holdings as quickly as practicable in an economically rational 
manner, sales of the remaining larger businesses could largely depend on 

factors outside of Citi™s control, such as market appetite and buyer funding, 

and the remaining assets will largely continue to be subject to ongoing run-
off and opportunistic sales. As a result, Citi Holdings™ remaining assets could continue to have a negative impact on Citi™s overall results of operations. 

Moreover, Citi™s ability to utilize the capital supporting the remaining assets 

within Citi Holdings and thus use such capital for more productive purposes, 
including return of capital to shareholders, will also depend on the ultimate 
pace and level of the wind-down of Citi Holdings.Citi™s Ability to Utilize Its DTAs, and Thus Reduce the Negative Impact of the DTAs on Citi™s Regulatory 
Capital, Will Be Driven by Its Ability to Generate U.S. 
Taxable Income.
At December 31, 2013, Citi™s net DTAs were $52.8 billion, of which 
approximately $41.9 billion and $40.6 billion were not included in Citi™s 
regulatory capital, due to either disallowance (deduction) or permitted 
exclusion, under current regulatory capital guidelines and the Final Basel 
III Rules, respectively. In addition, of the net DTAs as of year-end 2013, 
approximately $19.6 billion related to foreign tax credits (FTCs). The carry-
forward utilization period for FTCs is 10 years and represents the most time-
sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. Of the FTCs at year-end, approximately 
$4.7 billion expire in 2017, $5.2 billion expire in 2018 and the remaining 
$9.7 billion expire over the period of 2019-2023. Citi must utilize any FTCs 
generated in the then-current year prior to utilizing any carry-forward 
FTCs. For additional information on Citi™s DTAs, including the FTCs, see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant EstimatesŠIncome Taxesﬂ 
below and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The accounting treatment for realization of DTAs, including FTCs, is 
complex and requires a significant amount of judgment and estimates 
regarding future taxable earnings in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs 

arise and available tax planning strategies. Citi™s ability to utilize its DTAs, 

including the FTC components, and thus use the capital supporting the 
DTAs for more productive purposes, will be dependent upon Citi™s ability 

to generate U.S. taxable income in the relevant tax carry-forward period, 
including its ability to offset any negative impact of Citi Holdings on Citi™s 

U.S. taxable income. Failure to realize any portion of the DTAs would also 

have a corresponding negative impact on Citi™s net income.
The Value of Citi™s DTAs Could Be Significantly Reduced If Corporate Tax Rates in the U.S. or Certain State or Foreign 
Jurisdictions Decline or as a Result of Other Changes in the 
U.S. Corporate Tax System.
Congress and the Obama Administration have discussed decreasing the U.S. 
corporate tax rate. Similar discussions have taken place in certain state and 
foreign jurisdictions, including recent proposals in the State of New York. 
While Citi may benefit in some respects from any decrease in corporate tax 
rates, a reduction in the U.S., state or foreign corporate tax rates could result 
in a decrease, perhaps significant, in the value of Citi™s DTAs, which would 
result in a reduction to Citi™s net income during the period in which the 
change is enacted. There have also been recent discussions of more sweeping 66changes to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the tax treatment of foreign business income. It is uncertain whether or when any such tax 
reform proposals will be enacted into law, and whether or how they will affect 
Citi™s DTAs.Citi™s Interpretation or Application of the Extensive Tax Laws to Which It Is Subject Could Differ from Those of the 
Relevant Governmental Authorities, Which Could Result in 
the Payment of Additional Taxes and Penalties.
Citi is subject to the various tax laws of the U.S. and its states and 
municipalities, as well as the numerous foreign jurisdictions in which 
it operates. These tax laws are inherently complex and Citi must make 
judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws to its 
entities, operations and businesses. Citi™s interpretations and application 
of the tax laws, including with respect to withholding tax obligations and 
stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from that of the relevant 
governmental taxing authority, which could result in the potential for the 
payment of additional taxes, penalties or interest, which could be material.Citi Maintains Contractual Relationships with Various Retailers and Merchants Within Its U.S. Credit Card 
Businesses in NA RCB, and the Failure to Maintain Those 
Relationships Could Have a Material Negative Impact on 
the Results of Operations or Financial Condition of Those 
Businesses.
Through its U.S. Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services credit card 
businesses within North America Regional Consumer Banking (NA RCB), 
Citi maintains numerous co-branding relationships with third-party 
retailers and merchants in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which 
Citi issues credit cards to customers of the retailers or merchants. These 
agreements provide for shared economics between the parties and ways 
to increase customer brand loyalty, and generally have a fixed term that 
may be extended or renewed by the parties or terminated early in certain 
circumstances. These agreements could be terminated due to, among 
other factors, a breach by Citi of its responsibilities under the applicable 
co-branding agreement, a breach by the retailer or merchant under the 
agreement, or external factors outside of either party™s control, including 
bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings or consolidations and other similar 
events that may occur. While various mitigating factors could be available in 
the event of the loss of one or more of these co-branding relationships, such 
as replacing the retailer or merchant or by Citi™s offering new card products, 
the results of operations or financial condition of Citi-branded cards or Citi 
retail services, as applicable, or NA RCB could be negatively impacted, and 
the impact could be material.Citi™s Operational Systems and Networks Have Been, and 
Will Continue to Be, Subject to an Increasing Risk of 
Continually Evolving Cybersecurity or Other Technological 
Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential 
Client or Customer Information, Damage to Citi™s 
Reputation, Additional Costs to Citi, Regulatory Penalties 
and Financial Losses.
A significant portion of Citi™s operations relies heavily on the secure 
processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information 
as well as the monitoring of a large number of complex transactions on a 
minute-by-minute basis. For example, through its global consumer banking, 
credit card and Transaction Services businesses, Citi obtains and stores an 
extensive amount of personal and client-specific information for its retail, 
corporate and governmental customers and clients and must accurately 
record and reflect their extensive account transactions. With the evolving 
proliferation of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet and 
mobile devices to conduct financial transactions, large, global financial 
institutions such as Citi have been, and will continue to be, subject to an 
increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities.Although Citi devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and 
detection prevention systems and monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical 
business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any 
other measures can provide absolute security. Citi™s computer systems, 

software and networks are subject to ongoing cyber incidents such as 
unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential 
client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer 
viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats 
may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or 

third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional 
challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state 
actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends. If one 
or more of these events occur, it could result in the disclosure of confidential 

client information, damage to Citi™s reputation with its clients and the 

market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs to Citi (such as repairing 
systems, replacing customer debit or credit cards, or adding new personnel 
or protection technologies), regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and 
other financial losses to both Citi and its clients and customers. Such events 
could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of Citi (such 
as the lack of availability of Citi™s online banking system or mobile banking 

platform), as well as the operations of its clients, customers or other third 
parties. Given Citi™s global footprint and the high volume of transactions 

processed by Citi, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded 
before they are discovered and rectified, which would further increase these 
costs and consequences.Citi has been subject to intentional cyber incidents from external sources, including (i) denial of service attacks, which attempted to interrupt 
service to clients and customers; (ii) data breaches, which aimed to obtain 
unauthorized access to customer account data; and (iii) malicious software 67attacks on client systems, which attempted to allow unauthorized entrance to Citi™s systems under the guise of a client and the extraction of client data. 

For example, in 2013 Citi and other U.S. financial institutions experienced 
distributed denial of service attacks which were intended to disrupt consumer 
online banking services. In addition, various retail stores were the subject 
of data breaches which led to access to customer account data. While Citi™s 

monitoring and protection services were able to detect and respond to the 
incidents targeting its systems before they became significant, they still 
resulted in certain limited losses in some instances as well as increases in 
expenditures to monitor against the threat of similar future cyber incidents. 
There can be no assurance that such cyber incidents will not occur again, 
and they could occur more frequently and on a more significant scale. 
In addition, because the methods used to cause cyber attacks change 
frequently or, in some cases, are not recognized until launched, Citi may be 

unable to implement effective preventive measures or proactively address 
these methods.Third parties with which Citi does business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Citi outsources certain functions, 
such as processing customer credit card transactions, uploading content 
on customer-facing websites, and developing software for new products and 

services. These relationships allow for the storage and processing of customer 
information, by third-party hosting of or access to Citi websites, which could 
result in service disruptions or website defacements, and the potential to 
introduce vulnerable code, resulting in security breaches impacting Citi 
customers. While Citi engages in certain actions to reduce the exposure 
resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control 
assessments, limiting third-party access to the least privileged level necessary 
to perform job functions, and restricting third-party processing to systems 
stored within Citi™s data centers, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized 

access, loss or destruction of data or other cyber incidents with increased 
costs and consequences to Citi such as those discussed above. Furthermore, 
because financial institutions are becoming increasingly interconnected 
with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, including through the 
derivatives provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, Citi has increased exposure to 
operational failure or cyber attacks through third parties.While Citi maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms 
and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles, cover certain 
aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover 
all losses.Citi™s Performance and the Performance of Its Individual Businesses Could Be Negatively Impacted If Citi Is Not Able 
to Hire and Retain Qualified Employees for Any Reason.Citi™s performance and the performance of its individual businesses is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled employees. 
Specifically, Citi™s continued ability to compete in its businesses, to manage its businesses effectively and to continue to execute its overall global strategy 
depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its 
existing employees. Citi™s ability to attract and retain employees depends on 
numerous factors, including without limitation, its culture, compensation, 
the management and leadership of the company as well as its individual 
businesses, Citi™s presence in the particular market or region at issue and 
the professional opportunities it offers. The banking industry has and may 
continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, 
including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback 
requirements and special taxation. Moreover, given its continued focus 
on the emerging markets, Citi is often competing for qualified employees 
in these markets with entities that have a significantly greater presence in 
the region or are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions on the 
structure of incentive compensation. If Citi is unable to continue to attract 
and retain qualified employees for any reason, Citi™s performance, including 
its competitive position, the successful execution of its overall strategy and its 
results of operations could be negatively impacted.Incorrect Assumptions or Estimates in Citi™s Financial Statements Could Cause Significant Unexpected Losses 
in the Future, and Changes to Financial Accounting and 
Reporting Standards Could Have a Material Impact on 
How Citi Records and Reports Its Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations.
Citi is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing its 
financial statements under U.S. GAAP, including determining credit loss 
reserves, reserves related to litigation and regulatory exposures, DTAs and 
the fair values of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If Citi™s 
assumptions or estimates underlying its financial statements are incorrect, 
Citi could experience unexpected losses, some of which could be significant.Moreover, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently 
reviewing or proposing changes to several financial accounting and reporting 

standards that govern key aspects of Citi™s financial statements, including 

those areas where Citi is required to make assumptions or estimates. For 
example, the FASB™s financial instruments project could, among other things, 

significantly change how Citi determines the accounting classification for 
financial instruments and could result in certain loans that are currently 
reported at amortized cost being accounted for at fair value through Other 
comprehensive income. The FASB has also proposed a new accounting 

model intended to require earlier recognition of credit losses on financial 
instruments. The proposed accounting model would require that life-time 
ﬁexpected credit lossesﬂ on financial assets not recorded at fair value through 
net income be recorded at inception of the financial asset, replacing the 
multiple existing impairment models under U.S. GAAP which generally 
require that a loss be ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized. In addition, the 
FASB has proposed changes in the accounting for insurance contracts, which 
68would include in its scope many instruments currently accounted for as financial instruments and guarantees, including some where credit rather 
than insurance risk is the primary risk factor. As a result, certain financial 

contracts deemed to have significant insurance risk could no longer be 
recorded at fair value, and the timing of income recognition for insurance 
contracts could also be changed. For additional information on these and 
other proposed changes, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Changes to financial accounting or reporting standards, whether promulgated or required by the FASB or other regulators, could present 

operational challenges and could require Citi to change certain of the 
assumptions or estimates it previously used in preparing its financial 
statements, which could negatively impact how it records and reports its 
financial condition and results of operations generally and/or with respect 
to particular businesses. In addition, the FASB continues its convergence 

project with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) pursuant 
to which U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
may be converged. Any transition to IFRS could further have a material 
impact on how Citi records and reports its financial results. For additional 
information on the key areas for which assumptions and estimates are used 
in preparing Citi™s financial statements, see ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies 

and Significant Estimatesﬂ below and Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.It Is Uncertain Whether Any Further Changes in the Administration of LIBOR Could Affect the Value of LIBOR-
Linked Debt Securities and Other Financial Obligations 
Held or Issued by Citi.
As a result of concerns in recent years regarding the accuracy of LIBOR, 
changes have been made to the administration and process for determining 
LIBOR, including increasing the number of banks surveyed to set LIBOR, 
streamlining the number of LIBOR currencies and maturities and generally 
strengthening the oversight of the process, including by providing for U.K. 
regulatory oversight of LIBOR. In early 2014, Intercontinental Exchange 
(ICE) took over the administration of LIBOR from the British Banker™s 
Association (BBA).It is uncertain whether or to what extent any further changes in the administration or method for determining LIBOR could have on the value of 
any LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by Citi, or any loans, derivatives and 
other financial obligations or extensions of credit for which Citi is an obligor. 

It is also not certain whether or to what extent any such changes would 
have an adverse impact on the value of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, 
derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit held by or 
due to Citi or on Citi™s overall financial condition or results of operations.
Citi May Incur Significant Losses If Its Risk Management 
Processes and Strategies Are Ineffective, and Concentration 
of Risk Increases the Potential for Such Losses.
Citi™s independent risk management organization is structured to facilitate 
the management of the principal risks Citi assumes in conducting its 
activitiesŠcredit risk, market risk and operational riskŠacross three 
dimensions: businesses, regions and critical products. Credit risk is the 
potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or 
counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. Market risk 
encompasses funding risk, liquidity risk and price risk. Price risk losses 
arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading and non-trading 
positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign 
exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and in their implied volatilities. 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
internal processes, systems or human factors, or from external events, and 
includes reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices 
or market conduct in which Citi is involved. For additional information on 
each of these areas of risk as well as risk management at Citi, including 
management review processes and structure, see ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ 
below. Managing these risks is made especially challenging within a 
global and complex financial institution such as Citi, particularly given 
the complex and diverse financial markets and rapidly evolving market 
conditions in which Citi operates.Citi employs a broad and diversified set of risk management and mitigation processes and strategies, including the use of various risk models, 
in analyzing and monitoring these and other risk categories. However, these 

models, processes and strategies are inherently limited because they involve 
techniques, including the use of historical data in some circumstances, and 
judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome 
in the markets in which Citi operates nor can they anticipate the specifics 
and timing of such outcomes. Citi could incur significant losses if its risk 
management processes, strategies or models are ineffective in properly 
anticipating or managing these risks.In addition, concentrations of risk, particularly credit and market risk, can further increase the risk of significant losses. At December 31, 
2013, Citi™s most significant concentration of credit risk was with the U.S. 

government and its agencies, which primarily results from trading assets and 
investments issued by the U.S. government and its agencies (for additional 
information, see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Citi 
also routinely executes a high volume of securities, trading, derivative 
and foreign exchange transactions with counterparties in the financial 
services sector, including banks, other financial institutions, insurance 

companies, investment banks and government and central banks. To the 

extent regulatory or market developments lead to an increased centralization 
of trading activity through particular clearing houses, central agents or 
exchanges, this could increase Citi™s concentration of risk in this sector. 

Concentrations of risk can limit, and have limited, the effectiveness of Citi™s 

hedging strategies and have caused Citi to incur significant losses, and they 
may do so again in the future.69MANAGING GLOBAL RISKRisk ManagementŠOverviewCitigroup believes that effective risk management is of primary importance to its overall operations. Accordingly, Citi™s risk management process has been 
designed to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks it assumes 
in conducting its activities. Specifically, the activities that Citi engages 
inŠand the risks those activities generateŠmust be consistent with Citi™s 
underlying commitment to the principles of ﬁResponsible Finance.ﬂ For 
Citi, ﬁResponsible Financeﬂ means conduct that is transparent, prudent and 
dependable, and that delivers better outcomes for Citi™s clients and society.In order to achieve these principles, Citi establishes and enforces expectations for its risk-taking activities through its risk culture, defined 
roles and responsibilities (the ﬁThree Lines of Defenseﬂ), and through its 
supporting policies, procedures and processes that enforce these standards.Citi™s Risk Culture. Citi™s risk management framework is designed to balance business ownership and accountability for risks with well defined 
independent risk management oversight and responsibility. Citi™s risk 
management framework is based on the following principles established by 
Citi™s Chief Risk Officer:a defined risk appetite, aligned with business strategy;accountability through a common framework to manage risks;risk decisions based on transparent, accurate and rigorous analytics;a common risk capital model to evaluate risks;expertise, stature, authority and independence of risk managers; andrisk managers empowered to make decisions and escalate issues.Significant focus has been placed on fostering a risk culture based on a policy of ﬁTaking Intelligent Risk with Shared Responsibility, without 
Forsaking Individual Accountabilityﬂ:ﬁTaking intelligent riskﬂ means that Citi must identify, measure and aggregate risks, and it must establish risk tolerances based on a full 
understanding of concentrations and ﬁtail risk.ﬂﬁShared responsibilityﬂ means that all individuals collectively bear 
responsibility to seek input and leverage knowledge across and within the 
ﬁThree Lines of Defense.ﬂﬁIndividual accountabilityﬂ means that all individuals must actively 
manage risk, identify issues, and make fully informed decisions that take 
into account all risks to Citi.Roles and Responsibilities. While the management of risk is the collective 
responsibility of all employees, Citi assigns accountability into three lines 
of defense:First line of defense: The business owns all of its risks, and is responsible for the management of those risks.Second line of defense: Citi™s control functions (e.g., Risk, Compliance, 
etc.) establish standards for the management of risks and effectiveness 
of controls.Third line of defense: Citi™s Internal Audit function independently provides 
assurance, based on a risk-based audit plan approved by the Board 
of Directors, that processes are reliable, and governance and controls 
are effective.The Chief Risk Officer, with oversight from the Risk Management and 
Finance Committee of the Board of Directors, as well as the full Board of Directors, is responsible for:establishing core standards for the management, measurement and reporting of risk;identifying, assessing, communicating and monitoring risks on a 
company-wide basis;engaging with senior management on a frequent basis on material 
matters with respect to risk-taking activities in the businesses and related 
risk management processes; andensuring that the risk function has adequate independence, authority, 
expertise, staffing, technology and resources.Risk Management OrganizationAs set forth in the chart below, the risk management organization is 
structured so as to facilitate the management of risk across three dimensions: 
businesses, regions and critical products.Each of Citi™s major business groups has a Business Chief Risk Officer who 
is the focal point for risk decisions, such as setting risk limits or approving 
transactions in the business. The majority of the staff in Citi™s independent 

risk management organization report to these Business Chief Risk Officers. 
There are also Chief Risk Officers for Citibank, N.A. and Citi Holdings.Regional Chief Risk Officers, appointed in each of Asia, EMEA and Latin America, are accountable for all the risks in their geographic areas 
and are the primary risk contacts for the regional business heads and 
local regulators.70
The positions of Product Chief Risk Officers are established for those risk 
areas of critical importance to Citi, currently fundamental credit, market risk 
and real estate risk. The Product Chief Risk Officers are accountable for the 
risks within their specialties across businesses and regions. The Product Chief 
Risk Officers serve as a resource to the Chief Risk Officer, as well as to the 
Business and Regional Chief Risk Officers, to better enable the Business and 
Regional Chief Risk Officers to focus on the day-to-day management of risks 
and responsiveness to business flow. The Chief Administrative Officer oversees 
the day-to-day management of the risk management organization as well as 
Board of Director communication, risk policies and risk governance
 
matters.
Each of the Business, Regional and Product Chief Risk Officers reports 
to Citi™s Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the Head of Franchise Risk and 
Strategy, a direct report to the Chief Executive
 
Officer.
Chief Risk 
Officer
Fundamental Credit
Market and Real Estate Risk, 
Treasury & Model Validation
Product 
Chief Risk
Officers
Asia
Regions / 
Legal 
Entities
EMEA
Mexico & Latin America
Citi Holdings
Citibank, N.A. & Japan
Global Commercial
Global Consumer
Institutional Clients Group
Private Bank
Business Chief Risk 
Officers
Systemic Risk
Global Risk Management
Chief Administrative Office

Policies and Processes
Citi has established a robust process to oversee risk policy creation, ownership 
and ongoing management. Specifically, the Chief Risk Officer and the Risk 
Management Executive Committee (as described below), in some cases 
through established
 
committees:


establish core policies to articulate rules and behaviors for activities where 
capital is at risk; and


establish policy standards, procedures, guidelines, risk limits and limit 
adherence processes covering new and current risk exposures across Citi 
that are in alignment with the risk appetite of the
 
firm.
Key processes, as described below, include Risk Committees, Risk 
Aggregation and Stress Testing, and Risk
 
Capital.
Key Risk Committees
 are established across the firm and broadly cover 
either (a) overall governance or (b) new or complex product
 
governance.
Overall Governance


Risk Management Executive Committee: chaired by Citi™s Chief Risk 
Officer. Membership includes all direct reports of the Chief Risk Officer, 
as well as certain reports of the Head of Franchise Risk and Strategy. This 
Committee generally meets bi-weekly to discuss key risk issues across 
businesses, products and
 
regions.


Citibank, N.A. Risk Committee: chaired by the Citibank, N.A Chief 
Risk Officer. Membership includes the Citibank, N.A Chief Executive 
Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, Chief 
Compliance Officer, Chief Lending Officer and General Counsel. The 
Citibank, N.A. Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk appetite 
framework, thresholds and usage against the established thresholds for 
Citibank, N.A. The Committee is also responsible for reviewing reports 
designed to monitor market, credit, operational and other risk types 
within the
 
bank.
71 Business and Regional Consumer Risk Committees: exist in all regions, with broad engagement from business, risk and other control functions. 
Among these risk committees is the Global Consumer Banking Risk 
Committee, which is chaired by the Global Consumer Banking 
Chief Executive Officer with the Global Consumer Banking Chief 
Risk Officer as the vice chair. The Committee places an emphasis on 
key performance trends, significant regulatory and control events and 
management actions.ICG Risk Management Committee: reviews the risk profile of the 
Institutional Clients Group, discusses pertinent risk issues in trading, 
global transaction services, structuring and lending businesses and 
reviews strategic risk decisions for consistency with Citi™s risk appetite. 
Membership is comprised of Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and Head of 
Franchise Risk and Strategy, as well as the Global Head of Markets, 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk Officer of the Institutional Clients Group.Business Risk, Compliance and Control Committees: exist at both the 
business and segment levels. These Committees, which generally meet 
on a quarterly basis, provide a senior management forum to focus 
on internal control, legal, compliance, regulatory and other risk and 
control issues.Business Practices Committee: a Citi-wide governance committee designed 

to review practices involving potentially significant reputational or 
franchise issues for the firm. Each business also has its own Business 
Practices Committee. These Committees review whether Citi™s business 
practices have been designed and implemented in a way that meets the 
highest standards of professionalism, integrity and ethical behavior.Risk Policy Coordination Group: established to ensure a consistent 
approach to risk policy architecture and risk management requirements 
across Citi. Membership includes independent risk representatives from 
each business, region and Citibank, N.A.New or Complex Product GovernanceNew or complex product review committees have been established to ensure that new product risks are identified, evaluated and determined to 
be appropriate for Citi and its customers, and that the necessary approvals, 
controls and accountabilities are in place.New Product Approval Committee: This Committee™s overall purpose is to ensure that significant risks, including reputation and franchise risks, 
in a new Institutional Clients Group product or service or complex 
transaction, are identified and evaluated from all relevant perspectives, 
determined to be appropriate, properly recorded for risk aggregation 
purposes, effectively controlled, and have accountabilities in place. 
Functions that participate in this Committee™s reviews (as necessary) 
include Legal, Bank Regulatory, Risk, Compliance, Accounting Policy, 
Product Control, and the Basel Interpretive Committee. Citibank, N.A. 
management participates in reviews of this Committee™s proposals 
contemplating the use of bank chain entities.Consumer Product Approval Committee (CPAC): a senior, 
multidisciplinary approval committee for new products, services, 
channels or geographies for Global Consumer Banking. Each region 
has a regional CPAC, and a global CPAC addresses initiatives with high 
anti-money-laundering risk or cross-border elements. The composition 
of these Committees includes senior Risk, Legal, Compliance, Bank 
Regulatory, Operations and Technology and Operational Risk executives 
and is supported by other specialists, including fair lending. A member of 
Citibank, N.A. senior management also participates in the CPAC process.Investment Products Risk Committee: this Committee chairs two new 
product approval committees to facilitate analysis and discussion of new 
retail investment products and services manufactured and/or distributed 
by Citi.Manufacturing Product Approval Committee: responsible for reviewing 
new or meaningfully modified products or transactions manufactured 
by Citi that are distributed to individual investors as well as third-party 
retail distributors of Citi manufactured products.Distribution Product Approval Committee: approves new investment 
products and services, including those manufactured by third parties 
as part of Citi™s ﬁopen architectureﬂ distribution model, before they 
are offered to individual investors via Citi distribution businesses (e.g., 
Private Bank, Consumer, etc.) and sets requirements for the periodic 
review of existing products and services.There are also many other committees across the firm that play critical roles in the management of risks, such as the Asset and Liability Committee 
(ALCO) and the Operational Risk Council.72Risk Aggregation and Stress TestingWhile Citi™s major risk areas are discussed individually on the following 
pages, these risks are also reviewed and managed in conjunction with one 
another and across the various businesses via Citi™s risk aggregation and 
stress testing processes. Moreover, in 2013, a formal policy governing Citi™s 
global systemic stress testing was established.As noted above, independent risk management monitors and controls major risk exposures and concentrations across the organization. This 
requires the aggregation of risks, within and across businesses, as well 
as subjecting those risks to various stress scenarios in order to assess the 
potential economic impact they may have on Citigroup.Stress tests are in place across Citi™s entire portfolio (i.e., trading, 
available-for-sale and accrual portfolios). These firm-wide stress reports 

measure the potential impact to Citi and its component businesses of 
changes in various types of key risk factors (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, 
etc.). The reports also measure the potential impact of a number of historical 
and hypothetical forward-looking systemic stress scenarios, as developed 
internally by independent risk management. These firm-wide stress tests 
are produced on a monthly basis, and results are reviewed by senior 
management and the Board of Directors.Supplementing the stress testing described above, Citi independent risk management, working with input from the businesses and finance, provides 
periodic updates to senior management and the Board of Directors on 
significant potential areas of concern across Citigroup that can arise from 
risk concentrations, financial market participants and other systemic issues. 
These areas of focus are intended to be forward-looking assessments of the 
potential economic impacts to Citi that may arise from these exposures.The stress-testing and focus-position exercises described above are a supplement to the standard limit-setting and risk-capital exercises described 
below, as these processes incorporate events in the marketplace and within 

Citi that impact the firm™s outlook on the form, magnitude, correlation and 

timing of identified risks that may arise. In addition to enhancing awareness 
and understanding of potential exposures, the results of these processes 
then serve as the starting point for developing risk management and 
mitigation strategies.In addition to Citi™s ongoing, internal stress testing described above, Citi 
is also required to perform stress testing on a periodic basis for a number of 
regulatory exercises, including the Federal Reserve Board™s Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and the OCC™s Dodd-Frank Act Stress 

Testing (DFAST). These regulatory exercises typically prescribe certain 

defined scenarios under which stress testing should be conducted, and 
they also provide defined forms for the output of the results. For additional 
information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above.Risk Capital
Citi calculates and allocates risk capital across the company in order to 
consistently measure risk taking across business activities and to assess risk-
reward relationships.Risk capital is defined as the amount of capital required to absorb potential unexpected economic losses resulting from extremely severe events 
over a one-year time period.ﬁEconomic lossesﬂ include losses that are reflected on Citi™s Consolidated Income Statement and fair value adjustments to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, as well as any further declines in value not captured 
on the Consolidated Income Statement.ﬁUnexpected lossesﬂ are the difference between potential extremely severe 
losses and Citi™s expected (average) loss over a one-year time period.ﬁExtremely severeﬂ is defined as potential loss at a 99.9% and a 99.97% 
confidence level, based on the distribution of observed events and 
scenario analysis.The drivers of economic losses are risks which, for Citi, are broadly categorized as credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Citi™s risk capital 
framework is reviewed and enhanced on a regular basis in light of market 
developments and evolving practices.73
M
ANAGING
 G
LOBAL
 R
ISK
 I
N
DEX
 
CR
ED
IT RISK
74
Credit Risk Management
74
Credit Risk Measurement and Stress Testing
74
Loans Outstanding
75
Details of Credit Loss Experience
76
Allowance for Loan Losses
77
Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated Loans
78
North America
 Consumer Mortgage Lending
82
Consumer Loan Details
92
Corporate Credit Details
95
MARK
E
T RISK
(1)
98
Market Risk Management
98
Funding and Liquidity Risk
98
Overview
98
High-Quality Liquid Assets
99
Deposits
100
Long-Term Debt
100
Secured Financing Transactions and Short-Term 
Borrowings
102
Liquidity Management, Measurement and Stress Testing
104
Credit Ratings
105
107
Price Risk Measurement and Stress Testing
107
Price RiskŠNon-Trading Portfolios  
(including Interest Rate
 
Exposure)
107
Price RiskŠTrading Portfolios (including
 
VAR)
115
OP
E
RATIONAL RISK
119
Operational Risk Management
119
Operational Risk Measurement and Stress Testing
119
COUNTRY AN
D
 CROSS-BOR
DE
R RISK
120
Country Risk
120
Cross-Border Risk
128
˜˚˛˝
˝


˝

P
r
i
c
e
R
i
s
k
74CREDIT RISKCredit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations. 
Credit risk arises in many of Citigroup™s business activities, including:wholesale and retail lending;capital markets derivative transactions;structured finance; andrepurchase agreements and reverse repurchase transactions.Credit risk also arises from settlement and clearing activities, when Citi transfers an asset in advance of receiving its counter-value or advances funds 
to settle a transaction on behalf of a client. Concentration risk, within credit 
risk, is the risk associated with having credit exposure concentrated within a 
specific client, industry, region or other
 category.
Credit Risk ManagementCredit risk is one of the most significant risks Citi faces as an institution. As 
a result, Citi has a well established framework in place for managing credit 
risk across all businesses. This includes a defined risk appetite, credit limits 
and credit policies, both at the business level as well as at the firm-wide 
level. Citi™s credit risk management also includes processes and policies with 
respect to problem recognition, including ﬁwatch lists,ﬂ portfolio review, 
updated risk ratings and classification triggers.With respect to Citi™s settlement and clearing activities, intra-day client 
usage of lines is closely monitored against limits, as well as against ﬁnormalﬂ 
usage patterns. To the extent a problem develops, Citi typically moves 

the client to a secured (collateralized) operating model. Generally, Citi™s 

intra-day settlement and clearing lines are uncommitted and cancellable at 
any time.To manage concentration of risk within credit risk, Citi has in place a 
concentration management framework consisting of industry limits, obligor 
limits and single-name triggers. In addition, as noted under ﬁManaging 
Global RiskŠRisk Aggregation and Stress Testingﬂ above, independent 

risk management reviews concentration of risk across Citi™s regions and 

businesses to assist in managing this type of risk.Credit Risk Measurement and Stress TestingCredit exposures are generally reported in notional terms for accrual loans, 
reflecting the value at which the loans are carried on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. Credit exposure arising from capital markets activities is 
generally expressed as the current mark-to-market, net of margin, reflecting 
the net value owed to Citi by a given counterparty.The credit risk associated with these credit exposures is a function of the creditworthiness of the obligor, as well as the terms and conditions of 

the specific obligation. Citi assesses the credit risk associated with its credit 
exposures on a regular basis through its loan loss reserve process (see 
ﬁSignificant Accounting Policies and Significant Estimatesﬂ and Notes 1 and 
16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), as well as through regular 
stress testing at the company, business, geography and product levels. These 

stress-testing processes typically estimate potential incremental credit costs 
that would occur as a result of either downgrades in the credit quality or 
defaults of the obligors or counterparties.75Loans OutstandingIn millions of dollars2013’š˚’’š˚˚’š˚š’šš€Consumer loans

˝˜˚˛$108,453…………
13,398115,6516,592Š−˚’˚˚$244,094…………

˝˜˚˛$55,511…………
33,18236,74024,107769⁄‹˚⁄˚˚ƒƒ˚$150,309…………Total Consumer loans
$394,403…………(572)˜—˚‹˛˛–€‹š‹Consumer loans, net of unearned income
$393,831…………Corporate loans

$32,704…………25,102
˝˜˚˛29,425
34,4341,647$123,312…………
$82,663…………38,372
˝˜˚˛6,274
18,714527
2,341$148,891…………Total Corporate loans
$272,203…………(562)˜⁄€⁄˛˜⁄˚š˛˜€⁄’˛˛Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$271,641…………Total loansŠnet of unearned income
$665,472…………
(19,648)˛˛˛˛Total
 loansŠnet of unearned income and allowance for credit losses$645,824…………Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loansŠnet of unearned income (2)2.97%™™™™Allowance for Consumer loan losses as a percentage of total Consumer  loansŠnet of unearned income (2)4.34%™™™™Allowance for Corporate loan losses as a percentage of total Corporate  loansŠnet of unearned income (2)0.97%™™™™˜˚˛˝
˝
˜’˛˝
˝76Details of Credit Loss ExperienceIn millions of dollars2013’š˚’’š˚˚’š˚š’šš€Allowance for loan losses at beginning of period$25,455…………Provision for loan losses
˝˜˚˛˜’˛$7,603…………
1‹⁄˜⁄ƒ€˛˝$7,604…………Gross credit lossesConsumer
˝˜˚˛˜’˛$8,402…………
3,998Corporate

125ƒ€’
144–—€
2ƒƒ’⁄—
7–‹ƒ€˚˚˚˚——‹

62˚‹’
29’˚˚⁄˚’‹–$12,769…………Credit recoveries

Consumer
$1,073…………
1,065€⁄šCorporate


62’—ƒ’⁄–
52€ƒ‹⁄
1−−−−
20—ƒ‹€˚ƒ’˚˚

31˚⁄’⁄˚ƒšƒ
2˚€’’–˚$2,306…………Net credit losses
˝˜˚˛˜’˛$7,424…………
3,039Total
$10,463…………$(2,948)…˜‹‹⁄˛…˛…˛Allowance for loan losses at end of period$19,648…………
˝˜€˛2.97%™™™™
˝˜˚š˛$1,229…………Total allowance for loan losses and unfunded lending commitments
$20,877…………˝˜˚˛$10,262…………
2.63%™™™™
$201…’’ƒ………
0.08%™™™™Allowance for loan losses at end of period (11)$13,174…………6,474Ÿ
$19,648…………Allowance by type$17,064…………
2,584Ÿ
$19,648…………77˜˚˛˝
˝
˝
˝

˝
˝˜’˛˝
˝˝

˝
˝
˜ƒ˛˝
˝˜—˛˝
˝ˆˇ
˝

˘
˝ˆˇ˝˘
˝

˝
˝
˝
˝ˆˇ
˝
˜–˛˝
˝ˆˇ˝˘
˝
˝˘
˝ˆˇ
˝
˝
˜⁄˛˝
˝
˝
ˆˇ
˝ˆˇ
˜‹˛˝
˝˝˘
˝ˆˇ

˝ˆˇ
˜€˛˝
˝
˝
˝˝
˝˜˚š˛˝
Other liabilities

˝˜˚˚˛˝

˝

˝
Allowance for Loan LossesThe following table details information on Citi™s allowance for loan losses, loans and coverage ratios as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:December 31, 2013
In billions of dollarsAllowance for loan lossesLoans, net of unearned income
Allowance as a percentage of loans (1)North America ˜’˛$6.2$116.85.3%North America 
˜ƒ˛˜—˛5.1107.54.8North America 1.221.95.4
2.336.26.5
2.2111.42.0Total Consumer
$17.0$393.84.3%Total Corporate
2.6271.71.0Total Citigroup
$19.6$665.53.0%˜˚˛˝
˝˜’˛˝˝
˝ˆˇ˝
North America
˝˝
˜ƒ˛˝˝˝˘
˝
North America˝
˝ˆˇ˝
North America

˘
˝
North America
˝
˜—˛˝˝˝˘
˝˝
˝
˝˘
˝˝


˝
˝
˝78Allowance for Loan Losses˝˝’š˚’
In billions of dollars


˝˜˚˛North America ˜’˛……™North America 
˜ƒ˛˜—˛North America 

Total Consumer
……™Total Corporate
Total Citigroup
……™˜˚˛˝
˝˜’˛˝˝
˝ˆˇ˝
North America˝
˝˝
˜ƒ˛˝˝˝˘
˝
North America
˝

˝ˆˇ˝
North America
˝
˝˝
˜—˛˝˝˝˘
˝˝
˝˝˘
˝˝


˝
˝
˝Non-Accrual Loans and Assets and Renegotiated LoansThe following pages include information on Citi™s ﬁNon-Accrual Loans 
and Assetsﬂ and ﬁRenegotiated Loans.ﬂ There is a certain amount of 
overlap among these categories. The following summary provides a general 
description of each category:Non-Accrual Loans and Assets:Corporate and Consumer (commercial market) non-accrual status is based on the determination that payment of interest or principal 
is doubtful.Consumer non-accrual status is generally based on aging, i.e., the 
borrower has fallen behind in payments.Mortgage loans discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than 
FHA-insured loans, are classified as non-accrual. In addition, home equity 

loans in regulated bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related 
residential first mortgage loan is 90 days or more past due.North America Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services are not included 
because under industry standards, credit card loans accrue interest 
until such loans are charged off, which typically occurs at 180 days 
contractual delinquency.Renegotiated Loans:Both Corporate and Consumer loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).Includes both accrual and non-accrual TDRs.Non-Accrual Loans and Assets
The table below summarizes Citigroup™s non-accrual loans as of the periods 
indicated. Non-accrual loans may still be current on interest payments. In 
situations where Citi reasonably expects that only a portion of the principal 
owed will ultimately be collected, all payments received are reflected as a 
reduction of principal and not as interest income. For all other non-accrual 
loans, cash interest receipts are generally recorded as revenue.79Non-Accrual LoansIn millions of dollars2013’š˚’’š˚˚’š˚š’šš€Citicorp$3,791…………Citi Holdings5,166Total non-accrual loans (NAL)
$8,957…………Corporate non-accrual loans (1)North America$736…………EMEA766Latin America
127˚’‹ƒ–’⁄š˚Asia279ƒƒ€—⁄š€‹˚Total Corporate non-accrual loans
$1,908…………$1,580…………328—’—Total Corporate non-accrual loans
$1,908…………Consumer non-accrual loans (1)North America˝˜’˛$5,192…………EMEA138ƒ‹šƒ‹⁄Latin America
1,426Asia293ƒ‹ƒTotal Consumer non-accrual loans
 (2)$7,049…………$2,211…………˝˜’˛4,838Total Consumer non-accrual loans
 (2)$7,049…………˜˚˛˝˝
˝
˝
˝
˝…—–€
˝
˝
˝˜’˛˝
North America
˝


˝
˝˝

North America
˝

˝˝˝


˝
80The table below summarizes Citigroup™s other real estate owned (OREO) assets as of the periods indicated. This represents the carrying value of all real estate 
property acquired by foreclosure or other legal proceedings when Citi has taken possession of the collateral.In millions of dollars2013’š˚’’š˚˚’š˚š’šš€OREOCiticorp$79…—€…‹–…‹—š…Citi Holdings338ƒ€˚—‹š‹–ƒTotal OREO
$417…——š………North America$305…’€€…——˚……EMEA59€€⁄ƒ˚–˚˚’˚Latin America
47—š—⁄Asia6’˚—šTotal OREO
$417…——š………Other repossessed assets$Š…˚…˚…’‹…⁄ƒNon-accrual assetsŠTotal Citigroup

$1,908…………˜˚˛7,049$8,957…………ﬂ†łﬂ417——šŠ˚˚’‹⁄ƒ$9,374…………
1.34%™™™™
0.50
˜’˛219’’˚’⁄’’š€˚˚—Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citicorp
2013’š˚’’š˚˚’š˚š’šš€$3,791…………ﬂ†łﬂ79—€‹–‹—šN/A$3,870…………
0.22%™™™™
˜’˛348—˚–’ƒ’Non-accrual assetsŠTotal Citi Holdings
˝˜˚˛$5,166…………ﬂ†łﬂ338ƒ€˚—‹š‹–ƒN/A$5,504…………
4.70%™™™™
˜’˛125˚—–˚€š˚’–€š˜˚˛˝
North America
˝
˝
North America˝

˝˘
˜’˛˝


˝
˝81Renegotiated LoansThe following table presents Citi™s loans modified in TDRs.In millions of dollarsDec. 31,
 2013˝˝
’š˚’Corporate renegotiated loans (1)
˝˜’˛$36…˚‹š
˝˜ƒ˛143⁄’14˚⁄364——⁄$557…⁄˚–
˝˜’˛$161…
˝˜ƒ˛1858ƒ$237…Total Corporate renegotiated loans
$794…‹⁄ƒConsumer renegotiated loans (4)(5)(6)(7)

˝˜‹˛$18,922…2,510˝˜€˛626$22,058…

$641…€ƒ’˝˜˚š˛830‹––834€š—$2,305…Total Consumer renegotiated loans
$24,363…˜˚˛˝˝˝
˝˝

˝˜’˛˝
˝
˝

˝




˝˜ƒ˛˝
˝


˝

ˆˇ˝

˝˜—˛˝˝˝

˝˝
˝˝˝˝
˝

˝
˜–˛˝˝˝
˝

˝
˜⁄˛˝
˝˜‹˛˝˝ˆˇ
˜€˛˝
˝ˆˇŁ

˜˚š˛˝˝
˝Forgone Interest Revenue on Loans (1)In millions of dollarsIn U.S. officesIn non-U.S. 
offices2013 total

˝˜’˛$2,390$769$3,159˝˜’˛1,1403271,467Forgone interest revenue$1,250$442$1,692˜˚˛˝˝

˝˜’˛˝


˝82
North America Consumer Mortgage Lending
Overview
Citi™s 
North America
 Consumer mortgage portfolio consists of both 
residential first mortgages and home equity loans. At December 31, 2013, 
Citi™s 
North America
 Consumer residential first mortgage portfolio was 
$75.9
 
billion (compared to $88.2
 
billion at December 31, 2012), while the 
home equity loan portfolio was $31.6
 
billion (compared to $37.2
 
billion at 
December 31, 2012). At December 31, 2013, $44.6
 
billion of first mortgages 
was recorded in Citi Holdings, with the remaining $31.3
 
billion recorded 
in Citicorp. At December 31, 2013, $28.7
 
billion of home equity loans 
was recorded in Citi Holdings, with the remaining $2.9
 
billion recorded 
in
 
Citicorp.
Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio included $7.7
 
billion of loans 
with FHA insurance or VA guarantees at December 31, 2013, compared to 
$8.5
 
billion at December 31, 2012. This portfolio consists of loans to low-to-
moderate-income borrowers with lower FICO (Fair Isaac Corporation) scores 
and generally has higher loan-to-value ratios (LTVs). Credit losses on FHA 
loans are borne by the sponsoring governmental agency, provided that the 
insurance terms have not been rescinded as a result of an origination defect. 
With respect to VA loans, the VA establishes a loan-level loss cap, beyond 
which Citi is liable for loss. While FHA and VA loans have high delinquency 
rates, given the insurance and guarantees, respectively, Citi has experienced 
negligible credit losses on these
 
loans.
In addition, Citi™s residential first mortgage portfolio included $1.1
 
billion 
of loans with origination LTVs above 80% that have insurance through 
mortgage insurance companies at December 31, 2013, compared to 
$1.5
 
billion at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013, the residential 
first mortgage portfolio also had $0.8
 
billion of loans subject to long-term 
standby commitments (LTSCs) with U.S. government-sponsored entities 
(GSEs) for which Citi has limited exposure to credit losses, compared to 
$1.0
 
billion at December 31, 2012. Citi™s home equity loan portfolio also 
included $0.3
 
billion of loans subject to LTSCs with GSEs (compared to 
$0.4
 
billion at December 31, 2012) for which Citi also has limited exposure 
to credit losses. These guarantees and commitments may be rescinded in the 
event of loan origination defects. Citi™s allowance for loan loss calculations 
takes into consideration the impact of the guarantees and commitments 
described
 
above.
Citi does not offer option-adjustable rate mortgages/negative-amortizing 
mortgage products to its customers. As a result, option-adjustable rate 
mortgages/negative-amortizing mortgages represent an insignificant portion 
of total balances, since they were acquired only incidentally as part of prior 
portfolio and business
 
purchases.
As of December 31, 2013, Citi™s 
North America
 residential first mortgage 
portfolio contained approximately $5.0
 
billion of adjustable rate mortgages 
that are currently required to make a payment only of accrued interest for 
the payment period, or an interest-only payment, compared to $7.7
 
billion 
at December 31, 2012. This decline resulted primarily from repayments of 
$1.2
 
billion, conversions to amortizing loans of $1.0
 
billion and asset sales of 
$0.4
 
billion. Borrowers who are currently required to make an interest-only 
payment cannot select a lower payment that would negatively amortize the 
loan. Residential first mortgages with this payment feature are primarily 
to high-credit-quality borrowers who have on average significantly higher 
origination and refreshed FICO scores than other loans in the residential first 
mortgage portfolio, and have exhibited significantly lower 30+ delinquency 
rates as compared with residential first mortgages without this payment 
feature. As such, Citi does not believe the residential mortgage loans with this 
payment feature represent substantially higher risk in the
 
portfolio.
North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠNet Credit 
Losses and DelinquenciesŠResidential First Mortgages
The following charts detail the quarterly trends in loan balances, net credit 
losses and delinquencies for Citigroup™s residential first mortgage portfolio in 
North America
. As set forth in the tables below, approximately 59% of Citi™s 
residential first mortgage exposure arises from its portfolio in Citi Holdings, 
which includes residential first mortgages originated by both CitiMortgage as 
well as Citi™s legacy CitiFinancial 
North America
 
business.
4Q™13
3Q™13
2Q™13
1Q™13
4Q™12
47
11
31
43
10
31
39
10
29
37
9
31
36
9
31
North America Residential First Mortgage Š EOP Loans
In billions of dollars



$88
$84
$78
$76
$77
83
4Q™13
(3)
3Q™13
2Q™13
1Q™13
4Q™12
(2)
225
152
11
188
130
13
152
127
7
81
130
8
95
117
5
North America Residential First Mortgage Š 
Net Credit Losses
(1)
In millions of dollars
Citi Holdings - CMI
Citi Holdings - CFNA
Citicorp
$388
$331
$286
$218
$218
Total NCL
˜˚˛˝
˜˚˙˝
˜˚ˆ˝
˜˚˜˝
˜˚˜˝
Citi Holdings CMI
˜˚ˇ˝
˜˚˘˝
˜˚ˆ˝


Citi Holdings CFNA
˙˚˘˝




Citi Holdings Total



˜˚˛˝

Citicorp





S&P/Case Shiller Home 
Price Index
(4)




˜˜˚ˇ˝

“










›˜ˇ









˚








˚









›˜˙




˚


Š




Š


84
North America Residential First Mortgage Delinquencies
ŠCiti Holdings
In billions of dollars
Days Past Due:
0
2
4
6
8
30+ DPD
180+
90-179
30-89
4Q13
3Q13
2Q13
1Q13
4Q12
3Q12
2Q12
1Q12
4Q11
3.39
3.02
3.13
3.33
2.91
2.41
2.21
2.02
1.88
1.57
1.41
1.37
1.16
1.17
0.85
0.61
0.63
0.64
2.36
2.47
2.41
2.28
1.95
1.59
1.47
1.09
1.26
7.32
6.90
6.91
6.77
6.03
4.85
4.29
3.91
3.61

ž


As set forth in the tables above, while loan balances and net credit losses 
have declined in both the CitiMortgage and CitiFinancial portfolios in Citi 
Holdings, the loans originated in the CitiFinancial business have become 
a larger proportion of the total 
North America
 residential first mortgage 
portfolio within Citi Holdings. As a result of the CitiFinancial borrower 
profile, these loans tend to have higher net credit loss rates, at approximately 
5.0%, compared to a net credit loss rate of 1.0% for CitiMortgage residential 
first mortgages in Citi
 
Holdings.
During 2013, continued management actions, including asset sales 
and, to a lesser extent, loan modifications, were the primary drivers of the 
overall delinquency improvement for Citi Holdings residential first mortgage 
portfolio. These management actions, along with a significant improvement 
in the Home Price Index (HPI) in the U.S. housing market during 2013 
(despite a moderation in such improvement during the fourth quarter of 
2013), also resulted in the improvement in net credit losses in the portfolio. 
In addition, Citi continued to observe fewer loans entering the 30-89 days 
past due delinquency bucket during the year, which it attributes to the 
continued general improvement in the economic
 
environment.
During 2013, Citi sold approximately $2.3
 
billion of delinquent residential 
first mortgages (compared to $2.1
 
billion in 2012), including $0.2
 
billion 
during the fourth quarter of 2013. Citi also sold approximately $3.7
 
billion 
of re-performing residential first mortgages during 2013, although, as 
previously disclosed, sales of re-performing residential first mortgages tend 
to be yield sensitive. Additionally, Citi sold approximately $0.2
 
billion of U.S. 
mortgage loans that were guaranteed by U.S. government sponsored agencies 
and excluded from the charts
 
above.
In addition, Citi modified approximately $1.4
 
billion of residential first 
mortgages during 2013 (compared to $0.9
 
billion in 2012), including 
$0.3
 
billion during the fourth quarter of 2013. Citi™s residential first mortgage 
portfolio continued to show some signs of the impact of re-defaults of 
previously modified mortgages during the year. For additional information 
on Citi™s residential first mortgage loan modifications, see Note 15 to the 
Consolidated Financial
 
Statements.
Citi™s ability to reduce delinquencies or net credit losses in its residential 
first mortgage portfolio pursuant to asset sales or modifications could be 
limited going forward due to, among other things, the lower remaining 
inventory of delinquent loans to sell or modify, additional increases in 
interest rates or the lack of market demand for asset
 
sales.
85North America Residential First MortgagesŠState Delinquency TrendsThe following tables set forth, for total Citigroup, the six states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s residential first mortgages as of 
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013

State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% LTV >
 100%Refreshed FICO˝˝¢
$19.230%1.0%4%738›˝˝˝11.7182.63733˜˜˚ˇ˜˘ˇ3.153.921659˙˙˚˙˘˙˙‘¢3.154.425688˙ˇ˚˜˘˛˘2.743.816703ˆ˙˚ˇ1.522.725710ˆ˚ˇ23.1364.18671˙˚ˆ˜˙˘˘˛Total
$64.4100%2.9%8%705›˛˙˚ˆ˝ˆ˚ˆ˝˝ž




Š“‹

Citi™s residential first mortgages portfolio is primarily concentrated in 
California and the New York/New Jersey/Connecticut region (with New York 
the largest of the three states). The significant improvement in refreshed 
LTV percentages at December 31, 2013 was primarily the result of HPI 

improvements across substantially all metropolitan statistical areas, thereby 
increasing values used in the determination of LTV, although the HPI 

improvement varies from market to market. Additionally, delinquent and 

re-performing asset sales of high LTV loans during 2013 further reduced the 

amount of loans with greater than 100% LTV. To a lesser extent, modification 

programs involving principal forgiveness further reduced the loans in this 
category. While 90+ days past due delinquency rates have improved for the 

states or regions above, the continued lengthening of the foreclosure process 
(see discussion under ﬁForeclosuresﬂ below) could result in less improvement 
in these rates in the future, especially in judicial states.ForeclosuresThe substantial majority of Citi™s foreclosure inventory consists of residential 
first mortgages. At December 31, 2013, Citi™s foreclosure inventory included 
approximately $0.8 billion, or 1.2%, of Citi™s residential first mortgages, 
compared to approximately $1.2 billion, or 1.5%, at December 31, 2012 
(based on the dollar amount of ending net receivables of loans in foreclosure 
inventory, excluding loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government agencies 
and loans subject to LTSCs).While Citi™s foreclosure inventory declined year-over-year, due largely to 
portfolio delinquency trends, asset sales and loan modifications, extensive 
state requirements and other regulatory requirements for the foreclosure 
process continue to impact foreclosure timelines. Citi™s average timeframes to 

move a loan out of foreclosure are two to three times longer than historical 
norms. Extended foreclosure timelines continue to be even more pronounced in judicial states (i.e., states that require foreclosures to be processed via 
court approval), where Citi has a higher concentration of residential first 
mortgages in foreclosure. Active foreclosure units in process for over two years 

as a percentage of Citi™s total foreclosure inventory was approximately 29%, 

unchanged from December 31, 2012.Citi™s servicing agreements for mortgage loans sold to the U.S. government 
sponsored enterprises (GSEs) generally provide the GSEs with significant 
mortgage servicing oversight, including, among other things, foreclosures 
or modification completion timelines. The agreements allow for the GSEs 
to take action against a servicer for violation of the timelines, including 
imposing compensatory fees. While the GSEs have not historically exercised 
their rights to impose compensatory fees, they have begun to regularly 
impose such fees.In connection with Citi™s sale of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) 
announced in January 2014, Citi and Fannie Mae substantially resolved 
pending and future compensatory fee claims related to Citi™s servicing of the 

loans sold in the transaction (for additional information, see ﬁMortgage 
Servicing Rightsﬂ below). To date, the GSEs™ imposition of compensatory 

fees, as a result of the extended foreclosure timelines or in connection with 
the announced sale of MSRs or otherwise, has not been material.86
North America Consumer Mortgage Quarterly Credit TrendsŠNet Credit 
Losses and DelinquenciesŠHome Equity Loans
Citi™s home equity loan portfolio consists of both fixed-rate home equity 
loans and loans extended under home equity lines of credit. Fixed-rate 
home equity loans are fully amortizing. Home equity lines of credit allow 
for amounts to be drawn for a period of time with the payment of interest 
only and then, at the end of the draw period, the then-outstanding amount 
is converted to an amortizing loan (the interest-only payment feature during 
the revolving period is standard for this product across the industry). Prior 
to June 2010, Citi™s originations of home equity lines of credit typically had 
a 10-year draw period. Beginning in June 2010, Citi™s originations of home 
equity lines of credit typically have a five-year draw period as Citi changed 
these terms to mitigate risk. After conversion, the home equity loans typically 
have a 20-year amortization
 
period.
At December 31, 2013, Citi™s home equity loan portfolio of $31.6
 
billion 
included approximately $18.9
 
billion of home equity lines of credit 
(Revolving HELOCs) that are still within their revolving period and have 
not commenced amortization, or ﬁreset,ﬂ compared to $22.0
 
billion at 
December 31, 2012. The following chart sets forth these Revolving HELOCs 
(based on certain FICO and combined loan-to-value (CLTV) characteristics 
of the portfolio) and the year in which they
 
reset:
FICO 660+,CLTV>100
FICO<660,CLTV>100
FICO 660+,CLTV>=80<=100
FICO<660,CLTV>=80<=100
FICO 660+,CLTV<80
FICO<660,CLTV<80
%ENR
$6.0
$5.0
$4.0
$3.0
$2.0
$1.0
$0.0
2019+
2018
2017
2016
2015
2014
2013
Pre 2013
$0.5
3%
$0.5
3%
$1.2
6%
$4.0
20%
$5.2
26%
$5.1
25%
$2.7
13%
$0.8
4%
North America Home Equity Lines of Credit AmortizationŠCitigroup
Total Ending Net Receivables (ENR) by Reset Year
In billions of dollars as of December 31, 2013
ž


As indicated by the chart above, approximately 6% of Citi™s Revolving 
HELOCs had commenced amortization as of December 31, 2013, compared 
to approximately 6% and 72% that will commence amortization during 
2014 and 2015-2017, respectively. Before commencing amortization, 
Revolving HELOC borrowers are required to pay only interest on their loans. 
Upon amortization, these borrowers will be required to pay both interest, 
typically at a variable rate, and principal that amortizes over 20 years, 
rather than the typical 30-year amortization. As a result, Citi™s customers 
with Revolving HELOCs that reset could experience ﬁpayment shockﬂ due to 
the higher required payments on the loans. While it is not certain what, if 
any, impact this payment shock could have on Citi™s delinquency rates and 
net credit losses, Citi currently estimates the monthly loan payment for its 
Revolving HELOCs that reset during 2015-2017 could increase on average 
by approximately $360 or 170%. Increases in interest rates could further 
increase these payments given the variable nature of the interest rates on 
these loans post-reset.
87
Based on the limited number of Revolving HELOCs that have begun 
amortization as of December 31, 2013, approximately 6.0% of the amortizing 
home equity loans were 30+ days past due compared to 2.8% of the total 
outstanding home equity loan portfolio (amortizing and non-amortizing). 
However, these resets have generally occurred during a period of declining 
interest rates, which Citi believes has likely reduced the overall ﬁpayment 
shockﬂ to the borrower. Citi continues to monitor this reset risk closely, 
particularly as it approaches 2015, and Citi will continue to consider any 
potential impact in determining its allowance for loan loss reserves. In 
addition, management continues to review additional actions to offset 
potential reset risk, such as extending offers to non-amortizing home equity 
loan borrowers to convert the non-amortizing home equity loan to a fixed-
rate amortizing loan. See also ﬁRisk Factors
Š
Business and Operational 
Risksﬂ
 
above.
The following charts detail the quarterly trends in loan balances, net 
credit losses and delinquencies for Citi™s home equity loan portfolio in 
North
 
America
. The vast majority of Citi™s home equity loan exposure arises 
from its portfolio in Citi
 
Holdings.
4Q™13
3Q™13
2Q™13
1Q™13
4Q™12
34
3
33
3
31
3
30
3
29
3
North America Home Equity Š EOP Loans
In billions of dollars
Citi Holdings
Citicorp
$37
$36
$34
$32
$33
4Q™13
(3)
3Q™13
2Q™13
1Q™13
4Q™12
(2)
385
10
312
6
274
6
212
3
169
3
North America Home Equity Š Net Credit Losses
(1)
In millions of dollars
Citi Holdings
Citicorp
$394
$318
$280
$173
$215
Total NCL
ˆ˚˜˝




Citi Holdings
ˆ˚ˆ˝




Citicorp











›˙˜












˚








˚





›˘ˆ












˚
North America Home Equity Loan Delinquencies
ŠCiti Holdings
In billions of dollars
 
˜˚
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5




4Q13
3Q13
2Q13
1Q13
4Q12
3Q12
2Q12
1Q12
4Q11
0.86
0.74
0.73
0.69
0.63
0.52
0.48
0.43
0.42
0.68
0.58
0.54
0.49
0.47
0.37
0.34
0.30
0.25
0.32
0.33
0.33
0.35
0.35
0.35
0.34
0.33
0.34
1.86
1.65
1.59
1.52
1.45
1.24
1.16
1.07
1.00

ž


88As evidenced by the tables above, home equity loan net credit losses and delinquencies improved during 2013, including fewer loans entering the 30-89 days past due delinquency bucket, primarily due to continued 
modifications and liquidations. Given the lack of a market in which to sell 
delinquent home equity loans, as well as the relatively smaller number of home equity loan modifications and modification programs (see Note 15 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements), Citi™s ability to reduce delinquencies 

or net credit losses in its home equity loan portfolio in Citi Holdings, whether 
pursuant to deterioration of the underlying credit performance of these loans 
or otherwise, is more limited as compared to residential first mortgages.North America Home Equity LoansŠState Delinquency Trends
The following tables set forth, for total Citigroup, the six states and/or regions with the highest concentration of Citi™s home equity loans as of 
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012.In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013

State (1)ENR (2)ENR Distribution90+DPD %% CLTV >
 100% (3)Refreshed FICO˝˝
$8.228%1.6%17%726›˝˝˝7.2242.312718˛˜˙‘¢2.172.944704˛˙ˇ1.241.642713˜˚ˆˆ˙˙1.031.647686˙˙0.722.1537139.5321.726699˜˜˚˙Total
$29.9100%1.9%23%712›˝˝˝ž






Š“‹

Citi™s home equity portfolio is primarily concentrated in California and 
the New York/New Jersey/Connecticut region (with New York the largest of 

the three states). The significant improvement in refreshed CLTV percentages 

as of December 31, 2013 were primarily the result of improvements in HPI 
in these states/regions, thereby increasing values used in the determination 
of CLTV.
National Mortgage SettlementUnder the national mortgage settlement, entered into by Citi and other 
financial institutions in February 2012, Citi agreed to provide customer 
relief in the form of loan modifications for delinquent borrowers, including 
principal reductions, and other loss mitigation activities, and refinancing 
concessions to enable current borrowers whose properties are worth less 
than the balance of their loans to reduce their interest rates. Citi believes 
it has fulfilled its requirement for the loan modification remediation and 
refinancing concessions under the settlement. The results are pending review 
and certification of the monitor required by the settlement, which is not 
expected to be completed until the first half of 2014.Independent Foreclosure Review SettlementAs of December 31, 2013, Citi continues to fulfill its mortgage assistance 
obligations under the independent foreclosure review settlement, entered into 
by Citi and other major mortgage servicers in January 2013, and estimates 
it will incur additional net credit losses of approximately $25 million per 
quarter through the first half of 2014. Citi continues to believe its loan loss 
reserve as of December 31, 2013 will be sufficient to cover any mortgage 
assistance under the settlement.89
Citi Holdings Consumer Mortgage FICO and LTV
The following charts detail the quarterly trends for the residential first 
mortgage and home equity loan portfolios within Citi Holdings by risk 
segment (FICO and LTV/CLTV).
Residential First Mortgages - Citi Holdings (EOP Loans)
In billions of dollars
˜˚˛˝
˜
˙ˆˆˇ
























ˇ




ˇ


ˇ




(1)

Home Equity Loans - Citi Holdings (EOP Loans)
In billions of dollars
˜˚˛˝
˜
˙ˆˆˇ











(1)

˙



˙


˙


š™„

˙

During 2013, Citi Holdings residential first mortgages with an LTV above 
100% declined by 65%, and with an LTV above 100% with FICO scores of 
less than 620 by 56%. The residential first mortgage portfolio has migrated 
to a higher FICO and lower LTV distribution primarily due to home price 
appreciation, asset sales of delinquent first mortgages and principal 
forgiveness. Loans 90+ days past due in the residential first mortgage 
portfolio with refreshed FICO scores of less than 620 as well as LTVs above 
100% declined 64% year-over-year to $0.4
 
billion primarily due to home price 
appreciation, liquidations and asset sales of delinquent first
 
mortgages.
In addition, during 2013, Citi Holdings home equity loans with a CLTV 
above 100% declined by 47%, and with a CLTV above 100% and FICO scores of 
less than 620 by 50%, primarily due to home price appreciation, repayments 
and charge-offs. Loans 90+ days past due in the home equity portfolio with 
refreshed FICO scores of less than 620 as well as CLTVs above 100% declined 
60% year-over-year to $130
 
million primarily due to charge-offs, home price 
appreciation and
 
modifications.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
To minimize credit and liquidity risk, Citi sells most of the conforming 
mortgage loans it originates but retains the servicing rights. These sale 
transactions create an intangible asset referred to as mortgage servicing 
rights (MSRs), which are recorded at fair value on Citi™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet. The fair value of MSRs is primarily affected by changes in 
prepayments of mortgages that result from shifts in mortgage interest rates. 
Specifically, higher interest rates tend to lead to declining prepayments 
which causes the fair value of the MSRs to increase. In managing this risk, 
Citi economically hedges a significant portion of the value of its MSRs 
through the use of interest rate derivative contracts, forward purchase and 
sale commitments of mortgage-backed securities and purchased securities 
classified as trading account
 
assets.
Citi™s MSRs totaled $2.7
 
billion as of December 31, 2013, compared to 
$2.6
 
billion and $1.9
 
billion at September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 
respectively. The increase year-over-year primarily reflected the impact 
of higher interest rates and newly capitalized MSRs, partially offset by 
amortization. At December 31, 2013, approximately $2.1
 
billion of 
MSRs were specific to Citicorp, with the remainder to Citi Holdings. For 
additional information on Citi™s MSRs, see Note 22 to the Consolidated 
Financial
 
Statements.
As announced in January 2014, Citi signed an agreement for the sale 
of Citi™s MSRs portfolio representing approximately 64,000 loans with 
outstanding unpaid principal balances of $10.3
 
billion (approximately 
10% of Citi Holdings third-party servicing portfolio). The sale resulted in 
no adjustment to the value of Citi™s MSRs. The MSRs portfolio being sold 
includes the majority of delinquent loans serviced by CitiMortgage for Fannie 
Mae and represents almost 20% of the total loans serviced by CitiMortgage 
that are 60 days or more past due. Citi and Fannie Mae have substantially 
resolved pending and future compensatory fee claims related to Citi™s 
servicing on those loans. Transfer of the MSRs portfolio is expected to occur 
in tranches during
 
2014.

90Citigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations and Warranties Repurchase ReserveOverview
In connection with Citi™s sales of residential mortgage loans to the U.S. 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) and private investors, as well as 
through private-label residential mortgage securitizations, Citi typically 
makes representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain 
requirements, such as the loan™s compliance with any applicable loan 
criteria established by the buyer and the validity of the lien securing the loan. 
The specific representations and warranties made by Citi in any particular 
transaction depend on, among other things, the nature of the transaction 
and the requirements of the investor (e.g., whole loan sale to the GSEs versus 
loans sold through securitization transactions), as well as the credit quality 
of the loan (e.g., prime, Alt-A or subprime).These sales expose Citi to potential claims for alleged breaches of its representations and warranties. In the event of a breach of its representations 
and warranties, Citi could be required either to repurchase the mortgage loans with the identified defects (generally at unpaid principal balance plus 
accrued interest) or to indemnify (ﬁmake wholeﬂ) the investors for their 
losses on these loans. Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for its potential repurchase or make-whole liability regarding residential mortgage representation and 
warranty claims. During the period 2005-2008, Citi sold approximately 
$91 billion of mortgage loans through private-label securitizations, 
$66.4 billion of which was sold through its legacy Securities and Banking business and $24.6 billion of which was sold through CitiMortgage. 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, Citi considers private-label residential 
mortgage securitization representation and warranty claims as part of its 
litigation accrual analysis and not as part of its repurchase reserve. See 
Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information 
Citi™s potential private-label residential mortgage securitization
 exposure.Accordingly, Citi™s repurchase reserve has been recorded for purposes of its 
potential representation and warranty repurchase liability resulting from its 
whole loan sales to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent private investors, which 
are made through Citi™s Consumer business in
 CitiMortgage.Representation and Warranty Claims by Claimant
The following table sets forth the original principal balance of representation and warranty claims received, as well as the original principal balance of 
unresolved claims by claimant, for each of the periods presentedGSEs and others (1)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013
September 30, 2013
June 30, 2013
March 31, 2013

$80$152$647$1,126›˛ˇ˛
1691532641,252

“˚
˚
Repurchase Reserve
The repurchase reserve is based on various assumptions which are 
primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase activity with the GSEs. As of 
December 31, 2013, the most significant assumptions used to calculate the 
reserve levels are the: (i) probability of a claim based on correlation between 
loan characteristics and repurchase claims; (ii) claims appeal success rates; 
and (iii) estimated loss per repurchase or make-whole payment. In addition, 
as part of its repurchase reserve analysis, Citi considers reimbursements 
estimated to be received from third-party sellers, which are generally based 
on Citi™s analysis of its most recent collection trends and the financial 
viability of the third-party sellers (i.e., to the extent Citi made representation 
and warranties on loans it purchased from third-party sellers that remain 
financially viable, Citi may have the right to seek recovery from the third 
party based on representations and warranties made by the third party to Citi 
(a ﬁback-to-backﬂ claim)).During 2013, Citi recorded an additional reserve of $470 million relating to its loan sale repurchase exposure, all of which was recorded in the first 
half of 2013. During the second and third quarters of 2013, Citi entered 
into previously-disclosed agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, 
respectively, to resolve potential future origination-related representation 

and warranty repurchase claims on a pool of residential first mortgage loans 
that were, in each case, originated between 2000 and 2012. The change in 
estimate in the repurchase reserve during 2013 primarily resulted from GSE 
loan documentation requests received prior to the respective agreements 
referred to above. As a result of these agreements, and based on currently 
available information, Citi believes that changes in estimates in the 
repurchase reserve should generally be consistent with its levels of loan sales 
going forward.91The table below sets forth the activity in the repurchase reserve for each of the quarterly periods presented:Three Months EndedIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013
September 30, 2013
June 30, 2013
March 31, 2013


$345$719$1,415$1,565›˜‹˙˜˘
ŠŠŠ(244)«
4797˘
ŠŠ245225
(8)(10)(37)(138)
ŠŠ(913)Š«
Š(371)ŠŠ«Balance, end of period
$341$345$719$1,415›˜‹˙˘˙






The following table sets forth the unpaid principal balance of loans repurchased due to representation and warranty claims during each of the quarterly periods presented:Three Months EndedIn millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013
September 30, 2013
June 30, 2013
March 31, 2013

$22$46$220$190›˜˙˛In addition to the amounts set forth in the table above, Citi recorded make-whole payments of $1 million, $17 million, $59 million, 
$93 million and $92 million for the quarterly periods ended 
December 31, 2013, September 30, 2013, June 30, 2013, March 31, 2013, and 
December 31, 2012, respectively.
92CONSUMER LOAN DETAILSConsumer Loan Delinquency Amounts and RatiosTotal
 loans (1)90+ days past due (2)30-89 days past due (2)December 31,December 31,December 31,In millions of dollars, except EOP loan amounts in billions
20132013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Citicorp (3)(4)˝˙ˆˇ˘
$302.3$2,973$3,220
0.99%1.07%Retail banking˝˙ˆˇ˘
$151.9$952$1,049
0.63%0.70%North America44.1257205
0.60%0.48%EMEA5.63451
0.61%0.91%Latin America
30.6470395
1.54%1.29%Asia71.6191˜˜˜398
0.27%0.56%Cards˝˙ˆˇ˘
$150.4$2,021$2,171
1.34%1.44%North AmericaŠCiti-branded70.5681661
0.97%0.94%North AmericaŠCiti retail services
46.3771830
1.67%1.79%EMEA2.43242
1.33%1.75%Latin America
12.1349364
2.88%3.01%Asia19.1188274
0.98%1.43%Citi Holdings (5)(6)˝˙ˆˇ˘
$91.2$2,710$2,724
3.23%3.25%International
5.9162200
2.75%3.39%North America85.32,5482,524
3.27%3.24%0.3Total Citigroup
$393.8$5,683$5,944
1.48%1.54%˝

†ˇ

North AmericaŠCiti-branded cards
North America—Citi retail services

†ˇ

†ˇ
North America Regional Consumer Banking




’
†ˇ



’

†ˇ
North America Citi Holdings





’
†ˇ



ˇ’

†ˇ
North America
’

ˇ

93Consumer Loan Net Credit Losses and RatiosAverage
 loans (1)Net credit losses (2)In millions of dollars, except average loan amounts in billions
20132013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Citicorp˝˙ˆˇ˘
$288.0$7,211
2.50%Retail banking˝˙ˆˇ˘
$147.6$1,343
0.91%North America42.7184
0.43%EMEA5.426
0.48%Latin America
29.8844
2.83%Asia69.7289
0.41%Cards˝˙ˆˇ˘
$140.4$5,868
4.18%North AmericaŠCiti-branded68.62,555
3.72%North AmericaŠRetail services
38.51,895
4.93%EMEA2.642
1.65%Latin America
11.7883
7.56%Asia19.0493
2.59%Citi Holdings˝˙ˆˇ˘
$100.9$3,051
3.02%International
6.4217
3.38%NorthAmerica94.52,828
2.99%Other6Total Citigroup
$388.9$10,262
2.64%Ł







“
Consumer loans
94Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing U.S. Consumer MortgagesIn millions of dollars at year end 2013
Due within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than  5 yearsTotal
U.S. Consumer mortgage loan 
portfolio
$258$1,402$76,411$78,0712,11817,00611,25830,382Total
$2,376$18,408$87,669$108,453Fixed/variable pricing of U.S. 
Consumer mortgage loans 
with maturities due after 
one year
$1,147$65,125˘˙ˇ

17,26122,544Total
$18,408$87,66995CORPORATE CREDIT DETAILSConsistent with its overall strategy, Citi™s Corporate clients are typically large, multi-national corporations who value Citi™s global network. Citi aims to 
establish relationships with these clients that encompass multiple products, 
consistent with client needs, including cash management and trade services, 
foreign exchange, lending, capital markets and M&A advisory.For corporate clients and investment banking activities across Citi, the credit process is grounded in a series of fundamental policies, in addition 
to those described under ﬁManaging Global RiskŠRisk ManagementŠ
Overviewﬂ above. These include:joint business and independent risk management responsibility for managing credit risks; a single center of control for each credit relationship, which coordinates 
credit activities with each client; portfolio limits to ensure diversification and maintain risk/capital 
alignment; a minimum of two authorized credit officer signatures required on most 
extensions of credit, one of which must be from a credit officer in credit 
risk management; risk rating standards, applicable to every obligor and facility; and consistent standards for credit origination documentation and remedial 
management.Corporate Credit PortfolioThe following table represents the Corporate credit portfolio (excluding 
Private Bank in Securities and Banking), before consideration of 
collateral or hedges, by remaining tenor at December 31, 2013 and 2012. 
The Corporate credit portfolio includes loans and unfunded lending 
commitments in Citi™s institutional client exposure in Institutional Client Group and, to a much lesser extent, Citi Holdings, by Citi™s internal 
management hierarchy and is broken out by (i) direct outstandings, which 
include drawn loans, overdrafts, bankers™ acceptances and leases, and 
(ii) unfunded lending commitments, which include unused commitments to 
lend, letters of credit and financial guarantees.At December 31, 2013

In billions of dollarsDue within 1 yearGreater than 1 year but within 5 yearsGreater than 5 yearsTotal
 Exposure˛

˝˙ˆˇ˘
$108$80$29$2178720421312Total
$195$284$50$529Portfolio MixŠGeography, Counterparty and IndustryCiti™s Corporate credit portfolio is diverse across geography and counterparty. 
The following table shows the percentage of direct outstandings and 
unfunded lending commitments by region based on Citi™s internal 
management geography:December 31, 2013˜˚˛˜North America51%EMEA27Asia14Latin America
8Total
100%˛˚˚The maintenance of accurate and consistent risk ratings across the Corporate 
credit portfolio facilitates the comparison of credit exposure across all lines 
of business, geographic regions and products. Counterparty risk ratings reflect an estimated probability of default for a counterparty and are derived 
primarily through the use of validated statistical models, scorecard models 
and external agency ratings (under defined circumstances), in combination 
with consideration of factors specific to the obligor or market, such as 
management experience, competitive position and regulatory environment. 
Facility risk ratings are assigned that reflect the probability of default of 
the obligor and factors that affect the loss-given-default of the facility, such 
as support or collateral. Internal obligor ratings that generally correspond 
to BBB and above are considered investment grade, while those below are 
considered non-investment grade.Citigroup also has incorporated climate risk assessment and reporting criteria for certain obligors, as necessary. Factors evaluated include 

consideration of climate risk to an obligor™s business and physical assets and, 

when relevant, consideration of cost-effective options to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions.96The following table presents the Corporate credit portfolio by facility risk rating at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, as a percentage of the total Corporate credit portfolio:Direct outstandings and  unfunded lending commitmentsDecember 31,  2013ŁŁŁłŁŁłŁ52%ﬁﬁﬁ16ﬁﬁłﬁ302˜
Š—Total
100%˛˚˚Citi™s Corporate credit portfolio is also diversified by industry, with a 
concentration in the financial sector, broadly defined, and including banks, 

other financial institutions, insurance companies, investment banks and 
government and central banks. The following table shows the allocation of 
direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments to industries as a 
percentage of the total Corporate credit portfolio:Direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitmentsDecember 31,  2013˝
22%˜˛’
20˜˚15
10˛˚˝’
1065
543Total
100%˛˚˚Credit Risk MitigationAs part of its overall risk management activities, Citigroup uses credit 
derivatives and other risk mitigants to hedge portions of the credit risk in its 
Corporate credit portfolio, in addition to outright asset sales. The purpose 
of these transactions is to transfer credit risk to third parties. The results of 
the mark-to-market and any realized gains or losses on credit derivatives 
are reflected in Principal transactions on the Consolidated Statement of 
Income.At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, $27.2 billion and $33.0 billion, respectively, of the Corporate credit portfolio was economically 

hedged. Citigroup™s expected loss model used in the calculation of its loan 

loss reserve does not include the favorable impact of credit derivatives 
and other mitigants that are marked to market. In addition, the reported 
amounts of direct outstandings and unfunded lending commitments in the tables above do not reflect the impact of these hedging transactions. 
At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the credit protection was 
economically hedging underlying Corporate credit portfolio with the 
following risk rating distribution:Rating of Hedged ExposureDecember 31,  2013ŁŁŁłŁŁłŁ26%ﬁﬁﬁ36ﬁﬁłﬁ299Total
100%˛˚˚At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the credit protection was economically hedging underlying Corporate credit portfolio exposures with 
the following industry distribution:Industry of Hedged ExposureDecember 31,  2013˝
31%’
23˝’
14˛˛9
8˛˚762Total
100%˛˚˚For additional information on Citi™s Corporate credit portfolio, including 
allowance for loan losses, coverage ratios and Corporate non-accrual loans, 
see ﬁCredit RiskŠLoans Outstanding, Details of Credit Loss Experience, 
Allowance for Loan Losses and Non-Accrual Loans and Assetsﬂ above.97Loan Maturities and Fixed/Variable Pricing Corporate LoansIn millions of dollars at 
 
December 31, 2013
Due within 1 yearOver 1 year but within 5 yearsOver 5 yearsTotal
Corporate loan portfolio maturitiesIn U.S. offices
$16,186$10,614$5,904$32,70412,4248,1464,53225,102
14,5639,5505,31229,4258165342971,647
17,04211,1756,21734,434
101,33135,08312,477148,891Total corporate loans
$162,362$75,102$34,739$272,203Fixed/variable pricing of 
Corporate loans with maturities due after one 
year (1)
$8,701$9,712˘˙ˇ

66,40125,027Total
$75,102$34,739


98MARKET RISKMarket risk encompasses funding and liquidity risk and price risk, each of which arise in the normal course of business of a global financial 
intermediary such as Citi.Market Risk ManagementEach business is required to establish, with approval from Citi™s market risk 
management, a market risk limit framework for identified risk factors that 
clearly defines approved risk profiles and is within the parameters of Citi™s 
overall risk tolerance. These limits are monitored by independent market 
risk, Citi™s country and business Asset and Liability Committees and the 
Citigroup Asset and Liability Committee. In all cases, the businesses are 
ultimately responsible for the market risks taken and for remaining within 
their defined limits.Funding and Liquidity RiskAdequate liquidity and sources of funding are essential to Citi™s businesses. 
Funding and liquidity risks arise from several factors, many of which Citi 
cannot control, such as disruptions in the financial markets, changes in key 
funding sources, credit spreads, changes in Citi™s credit ratings and political 
and economic conditions in certain countries.OverviewCiti™s funding and liquidity objectives are to maintain adequate liquidity 
to (i) fund its existing asset base; (ii) grow its core businesses in Citicorp; 
(iii) maintain sufficient excess liquidity, structured appropriately, so that 
it can operate under a wide variety of market conditions, including market 
disruptions for both short- and long-term periods; and (iv) satisfy regulatory 
requirements. Citigroup™s primary liquidity objectives are established by 
entity, and in aggregate, across three major categories:the parent entity, which includes the parent holding company (Citigroup) and Citi™s broker-dealer subsidiaries that are consolidated into Citigroup 
(collectively referred to in this section as ﬁparentﬂ);Citi™s significant Citibank entities, which consist of Citibank, N.A. units 
domiciled in the U.S., Western Europe, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore 
(collectively referred to in this section as ﬁsignificant Citibank entitiesﬂ); 
andother Citibank and Banamex entities.At an aggregate level, Citigroup™s goal is to maintain sufficient funding 
in amount and tenor to fully fund customer assets and to provide an appropriate amount of cash and high-quality liquid assets (as discussed 
further below), even in times of stress. The liquidity framework provides that 
entities be self-sufficient or net providers of liquidity, including in conditions 

established under their designated stress tests.Citi™s primary sources of funding include (i) deposits via Citi™s bank 
subsidiaries, which are Citi™s most stable and lowest cost source of long-

term funding, (ii) long-term debt (primarily senior and subordinated 
debt) primarily issued at the parent and certain bank subsidiaries, and 
(iii) stockholders™ equity. These sources may be supplemented by short-term 

borrowings, primarily in the form of secured financing transactions.As referenced above, Citigroup works to ensure that the structural tenor of these funding sources is sufficiently long in relation to the tenor of its 
asset base. The goal of Citi™s asset/liability management is to ensure that 

there is excess tenor in the liability structure so as to provide excess liquidity 
after funding the assets. The excess liquidity resulting from a longer-term 

tenor profile can effectively offset potential decreases in liquidity that may 
occur under stress. This excess funding is held in the form of high-quality 
liquid assets, which Citi generally refers to as its ﬁliquidity resources,ﬂ and is 
described further below.
99High-Quality Liquid AssetsParent
Significant Citibank EntitiesOther Citibank and  Banamex Entities
Total
In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2013Sept. 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜Dec. 31, 
2013Sept. 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜Dec. 31, 
2013Sept. 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜Dec. 31, 
2013Sept. 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜Ł
$38.4$40.7$82.6$84.1$15.6$11.5$136.6$136.328.124.2181.2172.977.876.2287.1273.3Total
$66.5$64.9$66.9$263.8$257.0$198.1$93.4$87.7$94.7$423.7$409.6$359.7
˝

As set forth in the table above, Citigroup™s liquidity resources at 
December 31, 2013 increased from both September 30, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012. At the end of 2012, Citi had purposefully decreased 
its liquidity resources, primarily through long-term debt reductions and a 
one-time cash outflow on deposits related to the expiration of the FDIC™s 

Transaction Account Guarantee program. The growth in Citi™s liquidity 

resources during 2013 was primarily driven by increased deposits (see 
ﬁDepositsﬂ below), credit card securitization issuances through Citibank, N.A. 
and a continued reduction of Citi Holdings assets, partially offset by Global Consumer Banking and Securities and Banking lending growth.The following table shows further detail of the composition of Citi™s 
liquidity resources by type of asset for each of the periods indicated. For 
securities, the amounts represent the liquidity value that potentially could be 
realized and thus excludes any securities that are encumbered, as well as the 
haircuts that would be required for securities sales or financing transactions.In billions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2013Sept 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜Ł
$136.6$136.3˝
89.477.8
59.258.3123.0121.215.516.0Total
$423.7$409.6





˝


’
As evident from the table above, as of December 31, 2013, more than 80% of Citi™s liquidity resources consisted of available cash, U.S. government 

securities and high-quality foreign sovereign debt securities, with the 
remaining amounts consisting of U.S. agency securities, agency MBS and 
investment grade debt.Citi™s liquidity resources as set forth above do not include additional 
potential liquidity in the form of Citigroup™s borrowing capacity from the 

various Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLB), which was approximately 
$30 billion as of December 31, 2013 and is maintained by pledged collateral 
to all such banks. The liquidity resources shown above also do not include 
Citi™s borrowing capacity at the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank discount window 

or international central banks, which capacity would be in addition to the 
resources noted above.In general, Citigroup can freely fund legal entities within its bank vehicles. Citigroup™s bank subsidiaries, including Citibank, N.A., can lend 

to the Citigroup parent and broker-dealer entities in accordance with 

Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. As of December 31, 2013, the amount 
available for lending to these entities under Section 23A was approximately 
$17 billion (unchanged from September 30, 2013), provided the funds are 
collateralized appropriately.
100DepositsDeposits are the primary and lowest cost funding source for Citi™s bank subsidiaries. The table below sets forth the end of period deposits, by business 
and/or segment, and the total average deposits for each of the periods 
indicated.In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
 2013Sept. 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜Global Consumer Banking
$170.2$168.613.112.5Žˇ
47.747.5101.4101.6Total
$332.4$330.2ICG
$110.1$112.6˝
463.7452.8Total
$573.8$565.4
26.118.0Total Citicorp
$932.3$913.6˝
36.041.8Total Citigroup Deposits (EOP)
$968.3$955.4˝
$956.4$922.1


’

ˇ
End-of-period deposits increased 4% year-over-year and 1% quarter-
over-quarter. The increase during 2013 reflected, in part, elevated levels of 

market liquidity and strong corporate balance sheets, but also was driven by 
underlying business growth.Global Consumer Banking deposits decreased 1% year-over-year, as growth 
in consumer checking and savings balances was offset by reductions in Citi™s 

higher cost time deposits. Corporate deposits increased 10% year-over-year, as 

continued strong deposit flows led to 13% growth in Transaction Services
. This 

deposit growth in Transaction Services
 was offset by a 4% decline in Securities 

and Banking deposits driven by reduced deposit balances with counterparties 

in Citi™s Markets businesses, while deposits increased in the Private Bank. 

Corporate/Other deposits also increased year-over-year as Citi issued tenored 

time deposits to further diversify its funding sources.Average deposits increased 3% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter, 
despite the transfer of approximately $26 billion of deposits relating to MSSB 
to Morgan Stanley during the second half of 2013.Operating balances represented 80% of Citicorp™s total deposit base as 
of December 31, 2013, compared to 79% at September 30, 2013 and 78% 
at December 31, 2012. Citi defines operating balances as checking and 
savings accounts for individuals, as well as cash management accounts 
for corporations; by comparison, time deposits have fixed rates for the 
term of the deposit and generally lower margins. This shift to operating 
balances, combined with overall market conditions and prevailing interest 
rates, continued to reduce Citi™s cost of deposits during 2013. Excluding the 

impact of FDIC assessments and deposit insurance, the average rate on Citi™s 

total deposits was 0.50% at December 31, 2013, compared with 0.53% at 
September 30, 2013, and 0.65% at December 31, 2012.Long-Term DebtLong-term debt (generally defined as original maturities of one year or 
more) continued to represent the most significant component of Citi™s 
funding for the parent entities and was a supplementary source of funding 
for the bank.Long-term debt is an important funding source for Citi™s parent 
entities due in part to its multi-year maturity structure. The weighted-
average maturities of unsecured long-term debt issued by Citigroup and 
its affiliates (including Citibank, N.A.) with a remaining life greater than 
one year (excluding remaining trust preferred securities outstanding) was 
approximately 7.0 years as of December 31, 2013, roughly unchanged from 
the prior quarter and prior-year periods.
Citi™s long-term debt outstanding includes benchmark debt and what 
Citi refers to as customer-related debt, consisting of structured notes, such 

as equity- and credit-linked notes, as well as non-structured notes. Citi™s 

issuance of customer-related debt is generally driven by customer demand 

and supplements benchmark debt issuance as a source of funding for Citi™s 

parent entities.101Long-Term Debt OutstandingThe following table sets forth Citi™s total long-term debt outstanding for the 
periods indicated:In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
2013Sept 30,2013
˜˚˛˜Parent
$164.7$168.698.5100.4
28.128.0˝
3.94.3
22.222.07.89.2
4.24.7Bank$56.4$53.014.014.3
33.630.3
8.88.4Total long-term debt
$221.1$221.6
“






As set forth in the table above, Citi™s overall long-term debt decreased 
$18 billion year-over-year, although the pace of reductions slowed during 

the second half of 2013. At year-end 2013, long-term debt outstanding had 

generally stabilized at $221 billion, as continued reductions in parent debt 
were offset by increases at the bank. In the bank, the increase in long-term 
debt during the year was driven by increased securitizations, specifically 
$11.5 billion of credit card securitizations by the Citibank Credit Card 
Issuance Trust (CCCIT), given the lower cost of this funding. Going into 

2014, Citi expects to maintain its total long-term debt outstanding at 
approximately these levels, with a modest further reduction in parent debt 
partially offset by continued increased securitization activities at the bank. 
Overall, changes in Citi™s long-term debt outstanding will continue to reflect 

the funding needs of its businesses. It also will depend on the market and 
economic environment and any regulatory changes, such as prescribed 
levels of debt required to be maintained by Citi pursuant to the U.S. banking 
regulators orderly liquidation authority (for additional information, see 
ﬁRisk Factors-Regulatory Risksﬂ above).As part of its liquidity and funding strategy, Citi has considered, and may 
continue to consider, opportunities to repurchase its long-term and short-

term debt pursuant to open market purchases, tender offers or other means. 
Such repurchases decrease Citi™s overall funding costs. During 2013, Citi 

repurchased an aggregate of approximately $8.0 billion of its outstanding 
long-term and short-term debt primarily pursuant to selective public tender 
offers and open market purchases. Citi also redeemed $7.3 billion of trust preferred securities during the year, including $3.0 billion related to the exchange of trust preferred securities previously held by the U.S. Treasury and 

FDIC (for details on Citi™s remaining outstanding trust preferred securities, 

see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Long-Term Debt Issuances and Maturities
The table below details Citi™s long-term debt issuances and maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during the periods presented:2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛In billions of dollarsMaturities (1)Issuances (1)

Parent
$46.0$30.725.617.8
1.04.6———˝
6.4Š——
8.57.33.71.0—
0.8ŠBank$17.8$23.7˝Žı‡ŠŠ——11.89.5
2.411.5
3.62.7Total
$63.8$54.4˝


102The table below shows Citi™s aggregate long-term debt maturities (including repurchases and redemptions) during 2013, as well as its aggregate expected annual long-term debt maturities, as of December 31, 2013:In billions of dollarsMaturities2013Expected Long-Term Debt Maturities as of December 31, 2013
20142015201620172018ThereafterTotal
Parent
$46.0$24.6$20.4$21.5$21.2$14.3$62.7$164.725.6
1.0˝
6.4—————
8.53.7
0.8—Bank$17.8$18.8$11.3$13.1$3.1$6.6$3.5$56.411.8———
2.4
3.6Total long-term debt
$63.8$43.4$31.7$34.6$24.3$20.9$66.2$221.1Secured Financing Transactions and Short-Term 
BorrowingsAs referenced above, Citi supplements its primary sources of funding with short-
term borrowings. Short-term borrowings generally include (i) secured financing 

transactions (securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, or repos) 

and (ii) to a lesser extent, short-term borrowings consisting of commercial paper 

and borrowings from the FHLB and other market participants (see Note 18 to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on Citigroup™s and its 

affiliates™ outstanding short-term borrowings).103Secured FinancingSecured financing primarily is conducted through Citi™s broker-dealer 
subsidiaries to facilitate customer matched-book activity and to efficiently 
fund a portion of the trading inventory. Generally, changes in the level of 
secured financing are primarily due to fluctuations in trading inventory (on 
an end-of-quarter or an average basis).Secured financing was $204 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared to $217 billion as of September 30, 2013 and $211 billion as of December 31, 
2012. The decrease in secured financing quarter-over-quarter was primarily 

driven by a reduction in trading positions in Securities and Banking businesses (see ﬁBalance Sheet Reviewﬂ above). Average balances for secured 

financing were approximately $216 billion for the quarter ended December 
31, 2013, compared to $225 billion for the quarter ended September 30, 2013 
and $230 billion for the quarter ended December 31, 2012.Commercial Paper
The following table sets forth Citi™s commercial paper outstanding for each 
of its parent and significant Citibank entities, respectively, for each of the 
periods indicated.In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
2013Sept 30,2013
˜˚˛˜Commercial paper$0.2$0.317.717.6Total
$17.9$17.9

Other Short-Term BorrowingsAt December 31, 2013, Citi™s other short-term borrowings, which 
included borrowings from the FHLB and other market participants, were 
approximately $41 billion, unchanged from both the prior quarter and year-
end 2012.Short-Term Borrowings TableThe following table contains the year-end, average and maximum month-
end amounts for the following respective short-term borrowings categories at 
the end of each of the three prior fiscal years.Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under  agreements to repurchaseShort-term borrowings(1Commercial paperOther short-term borrowings(2)In billions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
$203.5$17.9$41.0Ł
229.416.339.6239.918.844.7Weighted-average interest rate
1.02%0.28%1.39%0.590.260.87

Ł–
Ł˘ˇ

104Liquidity Management, Measurement and Stress TestingCiti™s aggregate liquidity resources are managed by the Citi Treasurer. Liquidity is managed via a centralized treasury model by Corporate Treasury 
and by in-country treasurers. Pursuant to this structure, Citi™s liquidity 
resources are managed with a goal of ensuring the asset/liability match and 
that liquidity positions are appropriate in every entity and throughout Citi.Citi™s Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall risk profile of Citi™s 
aggregate liquidity resources. The Chief Risk Officer and Citi™s Chief Financial 

Officer co-chair Citi™s Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which 

includes Citi™s Treasurer and senior executives. ALCO sets the strategy of the 

liquidity portfolio and monitors its performance. Significant changes to portfolio 

asset allocations need to be approved by ALCO.Citi™s liquidity resources are held in cash or high-quality securities that could 
readily be converted to cash in a stress situation. At December 31, 2013, Citi™s 

liquidity pool primarily was invested in cash; government securities, including 

U.S. agency debt, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities and foreign sovereign 

debt; and a certain amount of highly rated investment-grade credits. While 

the vast majority of Citi™s liquidity pool at December 31, 2013 consisted of long 

positions, Citi utilizes derivatives to manage its interest rate and currency risks; 

credit derivatives are not used.Liquidity Measurement and Stress TestingCiti uses multiple measures in monitoring its liquidity, including those described 

below. In addition, there continue to be numerous regulatory developments 

relating to the future liquidity standards and requirements applicable to financial 

institutions such as Citi, including relating to certain of the measures discussed 

below. For additional information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above.Liquidity stress testing is performed for each of Citi™s major entities, operating 
subsidiaries and/or countries. Stress testing and scenario analyses are intended 

to quantify the potential impact of a liquidity event on the balance sheet and 

liquidity position, and to identify viable funding alternatives that can be utilized. 

These scenarios include assumptions about significant changes in key funding 

sources, market triggers (such as credit ratings), potential uses of funding and 

political and economic conditions in certain countries. These conditions include 

standard and stressed market conditions as well as firm-specific events.A wide range of liquidity stress tests is important for monitoring purposes. 
Some span liquidity events over a full year, some may cover an intense stress 

period of one month, and still other time frames may be appropriate. These 

potential liquidity events are useful to ascertain potential mismatches between 

liquidity sources and uses over a variety of horizons (overnight, one week, two 

weeks, one month, three months, one year, two years). Liquidity limits are set 

accordingly. To monitor the liquidity of a unit, those stress tests and potential 

mismatches may be calculated with varying frequencies, with several important 
tests performed daily.
Liquidity Coverage Ratio. As indicated above, Citi measures liquidity stress 
periods of various lengths, with emphasis on the 30-day, as well as the 12-month 
periods. In addition to measures Citi has developed for the 30-day stress scenario, 

Citi also monitors its liquidity by reference to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio 

(LCR), as calculated pursuant to the final Basel III LCR rules issued by the 

Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in January 2013. Generally, the LCR 

is designed to ensure banks maintain an adequate level of unencumbered high-
quality liquid assets to meet liquidity needs under an acute 30-day stress scenario. 
Under the Basel Committee™s final Basel III LCR rules, the LCR is to be calculated 

by dividing the amount of unencumbered cash and highly liquid, unencumbered 

government, government-backed and corporate securities by estimated net 

outflows over a stressed 30-day period. The net outflows are calculated by 

applying assumed outflow factors, prescribed in the rules, to various categories of 

liabilities, such as deposits, unsecured and secured wholesale borrowings, unused 

commitments and derivatives-related exposures, partially offset by inflows from 

assets maturing within 30 days.Based on Citi™s current interpretation of the Basel Committee™s final Basel 
III LCR rules, Citi™s estimated LCR was approximately 117% as of December 31, 

2013, compared with approximately 113% at September 30, 2013 and 116% at 

December 31, 2012. The increase in the LCR during the fourth quarter primarily 

was due to the increase in Citi™s high-quality liquid assets, as discussed under 

ﬁHigh Quality Liquid Assetsﬂ above, and continued improvement in the mix of 

deposits. Citi™s estimated LCR under the final Basel III rules as of December 31, 

2013 represents additional liquidity of approximately $62 billion above the 

minimum 100% LCR threshold.As discussed in more detail under ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above, in 
October 2013, the U.S. banking agencies proposed rules with respect to the U.S. 

Basel III LCR. Along with others in the industry, Citi continues to review the U.S. 

proposal and its potential impact on its estimated liquidity resources and LCR.Citi™s estimated LCR, as calculated under the Basel Committee™s final Basel III 
LCR rules, is a non-GAAP financial measure. Citi believes this measure provides 

useful information to investors and others by measuring Citi™s progress toward 

potential future expected regulatory liquidity standards. Citi™s estimated LCR 

for all periods presented is based on its current interpretation, expectations and 

understanding of the Basel Committee™s final rules. It is subject to, among other 

things, Citi™s continued review of the proposed U.S. Basel III LCR requirements, 

implementation of any final U.S. Basel III rules and further regulatory 

implementation guidance.Long-term liquidity measure. For 12-month liquidity stress periods, Citi 
uses several measures, including the long-term liquidity measure. It is based on 

Citi™s internal 12-month, highly stressed market scenario and assumes market, 

credit and economic conditions are moderately to highly stressed with potential 

further deterioration. It is broadly defined as the ratio of unencumbered liquidity 

resources to net stressed cumulative outflows over a 12-month period.Net Stable Funding Ratio. In January 2014, the Basel Committee issued 
revised guidelines for the implementation of the net stable funding ratio (NSFR) 

under Basel III. Similar to the long-term liquidity measure, the NSFR is intended 

to measure the stability of a banking organization™s funding over a one-year 

time horizon (i.e., the proportion of long-term assets funded by long-term, stable 

funding, such as equity, deposits and long-term debt). Citi continues to review the 

Basel Committee™s revised guidelines relative to its overall liquidity position. For 

additional information, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above.Given the range of potential stresses, Citi maintains a series of contingency 
funding plans on a consolidated basis and for individual entities. These plans 

specify a wide range of readily available actions for a variety of adverse 
market conditions or idiosyncratic disruptions.105Credit RatingsCitigroup™s funding and liquidity, its funding capacity, ability to access capital markets and other sources of funds, the cost of these funds, and its 
ability to maintain certain deposits are partially dependent on its credit 
ratings. The table below indicates the ratings for Citigroup and Citibank, 
N.A. as of December 31, 2013. While not included in the table below, 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI) is rated A/A-1 by Standard & Poor™s as 
of December 31, 2013.Debt Ratings as of December 31, 2013Citigroup Inc.Citibank, N.A.
Senior  debtCommercial  paperOutlookLong- termShort- termOutlook
AF1StableAF1Stable
Baa2P-2StableA2P-1Stable
A-A-2NegativeAA-1StableRecent Credit Rating Developments
On December 4, 2013, S&P upgraded Citi™s unsupported rating (stand-
alone credit profile) to ‚bbb+™ from ‚bbb,™ and simultaneously removed 
the one ﬁtransition notch,ﬂ resulting in no net change to the long- and 
short-term ratings of Citigroup Inc. and Citibank, N.A. As a result of the 
unsupported upgrade, Citi™s hybrid instruments were upgraded to ‚BB+™ 
from ‚BB™. S&P noted Citi™s progress in reducing non-core assets within Citi 
Holdings and the firm™s improved risk profile. As of December 31, 2013, S&P 
maintains outlooks of ‚Stable™ at Citibank, N.A. and ‚Negative™ at Citigroup 
Inc. Citigroup Inc.™s negative outlook reflects S&P™s ongoing assessment 
of government support. S&P cited the need for additional guidance from 
regulators before adjusting its support assumptions, and in early December 
2013, stated that any removal of support is ﬁlikely to be gradual or partial.ﬂOn November 14, 2013, Moody™s concluded its support reassessment for 
the six largest U.S. banks, including Citi, related to potential implementation 
of Orderly Liquidation Authority under the Dodd-Frank Act. Bank level 
support assumptions remained unchanged, and Moody™s upgraded Citibank, 

N.A.™s unsupported rating, which raised its supported long- and short-term 

ratings to ‚A2/P-1™ from ‚A3/P-2™. Moody™s removed Citigroup Inc.™s two 

notches of government support, but incorporated one notch of uplift for 
reduced loss given default assumptions under the proposed resolution 
framework. As a result, Citigroup Inc.™s long- and short-term ratings 

remained at ‚Baa2/P-2™. As of December 31, 2013, Moody™s has ‚Stable™ 

outlooks for both entities.Potential Impacts of Ratings Downgrades
Ratings downgrades by Moody™s, Fitch or S&P could negatively impact 
Citigroup™s and/or Citibank, N.A.™s funding and liquidity due to reduced 
funding capacity, including derivatives triggers, which could take the form of 
cash obligations and collateral requirements.The following information is provided for the purpose of analyzing the potential funding and liquidity impact to Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. of 
a hypothetical, simultaneous ratings downgrade across all three major 
rating agencies. This analysis is subject to certain estimates, estimation 
methodologies, and judgments and uncertainties. Uncertainties include 
potential ratings limitations certain entities may have with respect to 
permissible counterparties, as well as general subjective counterparty 
behavior. For example, certain corporate customers and trading 
counterparties could re-evaluate their business relationships with Citi 
and limit the trading of certain contracts or market instruments with 
Citi. Changes in counterparty behavior could impact Citi™s funding and 
liquidity, as well as the results of operations of certain of its businesses. The 
actual impact to Citigroup or Citibank, N.A. is unpredictable and may differ 
materially from the potential funding and liquidity impacts described below.For additional information on the impact of credit rating changes on Citi and its applicable subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk FactorsŠLiquidity Risksﬂ above.106Citigroup Inc. and Citibank, N.A.ŠPotential Derivative TriggersAs of December 31, 2013, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch 
downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citigroup across all three 
major rating agencies could impact Citigroup™s funding and liquidity due to 
derivative triggers by approximately $1.0 billion. Other funding sources, such 
as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which 
there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.As of December 31, 2013, Citi estimates that a hypothetical one-notch downgrade of the senior debt/long-term rating of Citibank, N.A. across all 
three major rating agencies could impact Citibank, N.A.™s funding and 

liquidity by approximately $1.5 billion, due to derivative triggers.In total, Citi estimates that a one-notch downgrade of Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., across all three major rating agencies, could result in 
aggregate cash obligations and collateral requirements of approximately 
$2.6 billion (see also Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
As set forth under ﬁHigh-Quality Liquid Assetsﬂ above, the liquidity 
resources of Citi™s parent entities were approximately $67 billion, and 

the liquidity resources of Citi™s significant Citibank entities and other 

Citibank and Banamex entities were approximately $357 billion, for a total 
of approximately $424 billion as of December 31, 2013. These liquidity 
resources are available in part as a contingency for the potential events 
described above.In addition, a broad range of mitigating actions are currently included in Citigroup™s and Citibank, N.A.™s contingency funding plans. For Citigroup, 

these mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, accessing surplus 
funding capacity from existing clients, tailoring levels of secured lending, 
and adjusting the size of select trading books and collateralized borrowings 
from Citi™s significant bank subsidiaries. Mitigating actions available to 

Citibank, N.A. include, but are not limited to, selling or financing highly 
liquid government securities, tailoring levels of secured lending, adjusting 
the size of select trading books, reducing loan originations and renewals, 
raising additional deposits, or borrowing from the FHLB or central banks. Citi 
believes these mitigating actions could substantially reduce the funding and 
liquidity risk, if any, of the potential downgrades described above.
Citibank, N.A.ŠAdditional Potential Impacts
In addition to the above derivative triggers, Citi believes that a potential one-
notch downgrade of Citibank, N.A.™s senior debt/long-term rating by S&P and 
Fitch could also have an adverse impact on the commercial paper/short-term 
rating of Citibank, N.A. As of December 31, 2013, Citibank, N.A. had liquidity 
commitments of approximately $17.7 billion to consolidated asset-backed 
commercial paper conduits (as referenced in Note 22 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).In addition to the above-referenced liquidity resources of Citi™s significant 
Citibank entities and other Citibank and Banamex entities, Citibank, 
N.A. could reduce the funding and liquidity risk, if any, of the potential 

downgrades described above through mitigating actions, including repricing 
or reducing certain commitments to commercial paper conduits. In the 
event of the potential downgrades described above, Citi believes that certain 
corporate customers could re-evaluate their deposit relationships with 
Citibank, N.A. This re-evaluation could result in clients adjusting their 
discretionary deposit levels or changing their depository institution, which 
could potentially reduce certain deposit levels at Citibank, N.A. However, 

Citi could choose to adjust pricing, offer alternative deposit products to its 
existing customers or seek to attract deposits from new customers, in addition 
to the mitigating actions referenced above.107Price RiskPrice risk losses arise from fluctuations in the market value of trading and non-trading positions resulting from changes in interest rates, credit 
spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices, and in their 
implied volatilities.Price Risk Measurement and Stress TestingPrice risks are measured in accordance with established standards to 
ensure consistency across businesses and the ability to aggregate risk. 
The measurement used for non-trading and trading portfolios, as well as 
associated stress testing processes, are described below.Price RiskŠNon-Trading PortfoliosNet Interest Revenue and Interest Rate Risk
Net interest revenue (NIR), for interest rate exposure purposes, is the 
difference between the yield earned on the non-trading portfolio assets 
(including customer loans) and the rate paid on the liabilities (including 
customer deposits or company borrowings). NIR is affected by changes in the 
level of interest rates, as well as the amounts of assets and liabilities, and the 
timing of repricing of assets and liabilities to reflect market rates.Interest Rate Risk MeasurementCiti™s principal measure of risk to NIR is interest rate exposure (IRE). IRE 
measures the change in expected NIR in each currency resulting solely from 
unanticipated changes in forward interest rates. Factors such as changes 
in volumes, credit spreads, margins and the impact of prior-period pricing 
decisions are not captured by IRE. IRE also assumes that businesses make no 
additional changes in pricing or balances in response to the unanticipated 
rate changes.For example, if the current 90-day LIBOR rate is 3% and the one-year-forward rate (i.e., the estimated 90-day LIBOR rate in one year) is 

5%, the +100 bps IRE scenario measures the impact on NIR of a 100 bps 
instantaneous change in the 90-day LIBOR to 6% in one year.
The impact of changing prepayment rates on loan portfolios is incorporated into the results. For example, in the declining interest rate 
scenarios, it is assumed that mortgage portfolios prepay faster and that 
income is reduced. In addition, in a rising interest rate scenario, portions of 
the deposit portfolio are assumed to experience rate increases that may be less 

than the change in market interest rates.Mitigation and Hedging of Interest Rate Risk
In order to manage changes in interest rates effectively, Citi may modify 
pricing on new customer loans and deposits, enter into transactions with 
other institutions or enter into derivative transactions that have the opposite 
risk exposures. Citi regularly assesses the viability of these and other strategies 
to reduce its interest rate risks and implements such strategies when it 
believes those actions are prudent. Such strategies are not included in the 
estimation of IRE.Stress TestingCitigroup employs additional measurements, including stress testing the 
impact of non-linear interest rate movements on the value of the balance 
sheet; the analysis of portfolio duration and volatility, particularly as they 
relate to mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities; and the potential 
impact of the change in the spread between different market indices.Changes in Interest RatesŠImpacts on Net Interest Revenue, Other Comprehensive Income and Capital
Citi measures the potential impacts of changes in interest rates on Citi™s net interest revenue and value of its other comprehensive income (OCI), which can in turn impact Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio. Citi™s 
goal is to benefit from an increase in the market level of interest rates, while 
limiting the impact of changes in OCI on its regulatory capital position.Citi manages interest rate risk as a consolidated net position. Citi™s client-
facing businesses create interest rate sensitive-positions, including loans and 
deposits, as part of their ongoing activities. Citi Treasury accumulates these 

risk positions and manages them centrally. Operating within established 

limits, Citi Treasury makes positioning decisions and uses tools, such as Citi™s 

investment securities portfolio, firm-issued debt, and interest rate derivatives, 
to target the desired risk profile. Changes in Citi™s interest rate risk position 

reflect the accumulated changes in all non-trading assets and liabilities, 
with potentially large and offsetting impacts, as well as Citi Treasury™s 

positioning decisions.OCI at risk is managed as part of the firm-wide interest rate risk position. OCI at risk considers potential changes in OCI (and the corresponding 
impact on the estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio) relative to Citi™s 

capital generation capacity.
108The following table sets forth the estimated impact to Citi™s net interest revenue, OCI and estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio, each assuming an 
unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates.In millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Estimated annualized impact to net interest revenue (1)
$1,229609˝˙ˆˇ˘
$1,838As a% of average interest-earning assets
0.11%
$(3,070)ŸŁ˝
(37)ŸŁ˝’⁄




˝
The increase in the estimated impact to net interest revenue in 2013 from the prior year primarily reflected changes in Citi™s balance sheet composition, 
including the continued growth and seasoning of Citi™s deposit balances and 

increases in Citi™s capital base, net of Citi Treasury positioning. The change 

in the estimated impact to OCI and estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio 

from the prior year primarily reflected changes in the composition of Citi 
Treasury™s investment and derivatives portfolio.
In the event of an unanticipated parallel instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates, Citi expects the negative impact to OCI would 
be offset through the combination of expected incremental net interest 
revenue and the expected recovery of the impact on OCI through accretion 
of Citi™s investment portfolio over a period of time. As of December 31, 2013, 
Citi expects that the $(3.1) billion impact to OCI in such a scenario could 
potentially be offset over approximately 18 months.Citi routinely evaluates multiple interest rate scenarios, including interest rate increases and decreases and steepening and flattening of the yield 
curve, to anticipate how net interest revenue and OCI might be impacted 
in different interest rate environments. The following table sets forth the 
estimated impact to Citi™s net interest revenue, OCI and estimated Basel III 

Tier 1 Common ratio under four different changes in interest rates for the 

U.S. dollar and Citi™s other currencies. While Citi also monitors the impact of 

a parallel decrease in interest rates, a 100 basis point decrease in short-term 
interest rates is not meaningful, as it would imply negative interest rates in 
many of Citi™s markets.
In millions of dollars (unless otherwise noted)Scenario 1Scenario 2Scenario 3Scenario 4
˛˚˚˛˚˚——
˛˚˚—˛˚˚Estimated annualized impact to net interest revenue (in millions of dollars)
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝
˝’⁄


˝
As shown in the table above, the magnitude of the impact to Citi™s net interest 
revenue and OCI is greater under scenario 2 as compared to scenario 3. 
This is due to the fact that the combination of changes to Citi™s investment 
portfolio, partially offset by changes related to Citi™s pension liabilities, results 
in a net position that is more sensitive to rates at shorter and intermediate 
term maturities.109Changes in Foreign Exchange RatesŠImpacts on OCI and CapitalAs of December 31, 2013, Citi estimates that a simultaneous 5% appreciation 
of the U.S. dollar against all of Citi™s other currencies could reduce Citi™s 
tangible common equity (TCE) by approximately $1.7 billion, or 1.0% of 
TCE, as a result of changes to Citi™s foreign currency translation adjustment 
OCI, net of hedges. This impact would be primarily due to changes in the 
value of the Mexican Peso, the British pound sterling, the Euro, the Korean 
Won and the Australian dollar.Despite this decrease in TCE, Citi believes its business model and management of foreign currency translation exposure work to minimize the 
effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on its estimated Basel III Tier 1 

Common ratio. Specifically, as currency movements change the value of Citi™s 

net investments in foreign currency denominated capital, these movements 
also change the value of Citi™s risk-weighted assets denominated in those 

currencies. This, coupled with Citi™s foreign currency hedging strategies, such 

as foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency forwards and other currency 

hedging instruments, lessens the impact of foreign currency movements on 
Citi™s estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio.
For the quarter endedIn millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
 2013Sept. 30, 
2013
˜˚˛˜
(0.4)%1.3%
$(241)$383˝
(0.1)%0.6%˝



(2)(1)


The effect of Citi™s business model and management strategies on changes in foreign exchange rates are shown in the table above. During the fourth 
quarter, the U.S. dollar appreciated by approximately 0.4% against the major 
currencies to which Citi is exposed, resulting in an approximately $(241) 
million, or approximately 0.1%, decrease in TCE. The impact on Citi™s 
estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio was a reduction of approximately 2 
basis points.For additional information in the changes in OCI, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.110
I
nterest 
R
evenue/
E
xpense and Yields
Average Rates
-
Interest Revenue, Interest Expense, and Net Interest Margin









































1Q11
2Q11
2011: 2.82%
2012: 2.82%
2013: 2.85%
3Q11
4Q11
1Q12
2Q12
3Q12
4Q12
1Q13
2Q13
3Q13
4Q13
1.00%
1.50%
2.00%
2.50%
3.00%
3.50%
4.00%
4.50%
5.00%
In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted
2013
˜˚˛˜
˜˚˛˛
Change
2013 vs 2012




$
63,491




(6)%


16,177


(22)



$
47,314




Š%


3.83%


(23) bps


1.19


(28) bps


2.85%


3 bps
—

Interest-rate benchmarks
˝˝
0.31%


3 bps

˝
2.35


55 bps


204 bps




’



 Long-term debt 

 Principal transactions




Discontinued operations

Citi™s net interest margin (NIM) is calculated by dividing gross interest 
revenue less gross interest expense by average interest earning assets. As set 
forth in the table above, quarter-over-quarter, Citi™s NIM increased by 7 basis 
points as funding costs continued to improve, driven by both the continued 
reduction in Citi™s deposit costs and a reduction in long-term debt costs 
(see ﬁFunding and Liquidityﬂ above). Overall loan and investment yields 
generally stabilized towards the end of the year. On a full-year basis, Citi™s 
NIM increased by 3 basis points. The increase was driven by the declining 
funding costs, partially offset by declining loan and investment yields, 
which declined throughout 2012 and most of 2013, given the continued 
low interest rate environment. While Citi™s NIM likely will fluctuate from 
quarter-to-quarter, Citi expects its NIM during 2014 to be at or around the 
level experienced in 2013.
111Average Balances and Interest RatesŠAssets (1)(2)(3)(4)Taxable Equivalent BasisAverage volume
Interest revenue% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛AssetsDeposits with banks (5)$144,904$1,0260.71%Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or 
purchased under agreements to resell (6)
158,237$1,1330.72%
109,2331,4331.31%˝˙ˆˇ˘
$267,470$2,5660.96%Trading account assets
 (7)(8)
$126,123$3,7282.96%
127,2912,6832.11%˝˙ˆˇ˘
$253,414$6,4112.53%
˝ˇ−ˇ
$174,084$2,7131.56%
18,0758114.49%
114,1223,7613.30%˝˙ˆˇ˘
$306,281$7,2852.38%Loans (net of unearned income) (9)
$354,707$25,9417.31%
292,85219,6606.71%˝˙ˆˇ˘
$647,559$45,6017.04%Other interest-earning assets (10)$38,233$6021.57%˝
$1,657,861$63,4913.83%$222,526˝
2,909Total assets
$1,883,296Net interest revenue’



 Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations

Ł˘ˇ
Ł–
Interest revenue
Non-interest-earning assetsOthernon-interest-bearing liabilities.
Interest expenseTrading account liabilities
ICGInterest revenueInterest revenue Interest expense
 Trading account assets
Trading account liabilities
’

112Average Balances and Interest RatesŠLiabilities and Equity,  and Net Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)(4)Taxable Equivalent BasisAverage volume
Interest expense
% Average rate
In millions of dollars, except rates
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛LiabilitiesDeposits
$262,544$1,7540.67%˛˘˚˜
481,1344,4820.93%
$743,678$6,2360.84%˛˘˜˛Federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
 or sold under agreements to repurchaseˆ(7)
$126,742$6770.53%
102,6231,6621.62%
$229,365$2,3391.02%Trading account liabilities
ˆ(8)(9)
$24,834$930.37%
47,908760.16%
$72,742$1690.23%Short-term borrowingsˆ(10)
$77,439$1760.23%
35,5514211.18%
$112,990$5970.53%Long-term debtˆ(11)
$194,140$6,6023.40%
10,1942342.30%˜˘˚˚
$204,334$6,8363.35%Total interest-bearing liabilities
$1,363,109$16,1771.19%
$21,948
299,052
362Total liabilities
$1,684,471Citigroup stockholders™ equityˆ(12)$196,8841,941Total equity
ˆ(12)$198,825Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity
$1,883,296Net interest revenue as a percentage of average  interest-earning assetsˆ(13)
$926,291$25,5912.76%
731,57021,7232.97Total
$1,657,861$47,3142.85%ˆNet interest revenue
ˆ
ˆˆ›˘
ˆ
ˆ›ˆ†›ˆ†
ˆˆ
Interest revenueInterest expenseDiscontinued operations
˘
ˆ
ˆˆ

ˆﬁ“†
ˆﬁ…
ˆˆ
Interest expenseˆˆ
ˆ
Non-interest-earning assetsOther non-interest-bearing liabilities
˘ˆInterest expenseTrading account liabilities
Interest revenue˘ˆInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets
ˆTrading account liabilities
›˘
ˆ›†
ˆ
Long-term debt
Principal transactions˘ˆ
ˆ
113Analysis of Changes in Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)2013 vs. 2012
ˆ˜˚˛˛
Increase (decrease) due to change in:ˆIn millions of dollarsAverage
volumeAverage
rateNetchangeﬁ
ﬁ

Deposits with banksˆ(4)$(99)$(136)$(235)Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or 
 purchased under agreements to resell
$13$(351)$(338)
(169)(345)(514)
$(156)$(696)$(852)Trading account assets
ˆ(5)
$46$(217)$(171)
26(420)(394)
$72$(637)$(565)Investmentsˆ(1)
$125$(297)$(172)
(15)(380)(395)
$110$(677)$(567)Loans (net of unearned income)ˆ(6)
$(379)$(757)$(1,136)
485(1,501)(1,016)
$106$(2,258)$(2,152)Other interest-earning assetsˆ(7)$(37)$59$22Total interest revenue
$(4)$(4,345)$(4,349)ˆ
ˆł†
ˆˆ
Interest revenue Interest expense Discontinued operations
˘
ˆ
ˆ“†
ˆInterest expenseTrading account liabilities
 ICG  Interest revenue˘ˆInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets 
Trading account liabilities
›˘
ˆˆ
114Analysis of Changes in Interest Expense and Interest Revenue (1)(2)(3)2013 vs. 2012
ˆ˜˚˛˛
Increase (decrease) due to change in:ˆIn millions of dollarsAverage
volumeAverage
rateNetchangeﬁ
ﬁ

Deposits
$247$(630)$(383)˛˚˛
(71)(1,000)(1,071)
$176$(1,630)$(1,454)Federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
 or sold under agreements to repurchase
$33$(208)$(175)˛˜
13(316)(303)
$46$(524)$(478)Trading account liabilities
ˆ(5)
$(18)$(5)$(23)
5(3)2
$(13)$(8)$(21)Short-term borrowingsˆ(6)
$(3)$(24)$(27)
55(158)(103)
$52$(182)$(130)Long-term debt
$(2,078)$(216)$(2,294)
(97)39(58)
$(2,175)$(177)$(2,352)Total interest expense
$(1,914)$(2,521)$(4,435)Net interest revenue$1,910$(1,824)$86ˆ
ˆł†
ˆˆ
Interest revenue Interest expense Discontinued operations
˘
ˆ
ˆ“†
ˆInterest expenseTrading account liabilities
 ICGInterest revenue˘ˆInterest revenueInterest expense
Trading account assets 
Trading account liabilities
›˘
ˆ›†
115
Price RiskŠTrading Portfolios
Price risk in Citi™s trading portfolios is monitored using a series of measures, 
including but not limited to:

Value at risk (VAR) 





Factor sensitivity 
Each trading portfolio across Citi™s business segments (Citicorp, Citi 
Holdings and 
Corporate/Other
) has its own market risk limit framework 
encompassing these measures and other controls, including trading 
mandates, permitted product lists and a new product approval process for 
complex products. All trading positions are marked to market, with the 
results reflected in earnings.
The following histogram of total daily trading-related revenue (loss) 
captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which revenues 
for Citi™s trading businesses fell within particular ranges. As shown in the 
histogram, positive trading-related revenue was achieved for 92% of the 
trading days in 2013.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
(50) to (40)
(70) to (60)
(60) to (50)
40 to 50
30 to 40
20 to 30
10 to 20
(40) to (30)
60 to 70
70 to 80
80 to 90
100 to 110
110 to 120
120 to 130
130 to 140
140 to 150
150 to 160
160 to 170
190 to 200
Number of Days
0 to 10
50 to 60
90 to 100
170 to 180
180 to 190
(30) to (20)
(20) to (10)
(10) to 0
Histogram of Daily Trading-Related Revenue
(1)(2)
ŠTwelve Months Ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollars

ˆ

ﬁ˘

ˆ
›
 Trading related 
revenue

 Other comprehensive income
ˆ
Trading 
related revenue


116Value at RiskValue at risk (VAR) estimates, at a 99% confidence level, the potential decline 
in the value of a position or a portfolio under normal market conditions 
assuming a one-day holding period. VAR statistics, which are based on 
historical data, can be materially different across firms due to differences in 
portfolio composition, differences in VAR methodologies, and differences in 
model parameters. As a result, Citi believes VAR statistics can be used more 
effectively as indicators of trends in risk taking within a firm, rather than as a 
basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms.Citi uses a single, independently approved Monte Carlo simulation VAR 
model (see ﬁVAR Model Review and Validationﬂ below), which has been 

designed to capture material risk sensitivities (such as first- and second-order 
sensitivities of positions to changes in market prices) of various asset classes/
risk types (such as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity 
risks). Citi™s VAR includes all positions, which are measured at fair value; 

it does not include investment securities classified as available-for-sale or 

held-to-maturity. For information on these securities, see Note
 14 to the 
Citi believes its VAR model is conservatively calibrated to incorporate the 
greater of short-term (most recent month) and long-term (three years) 
market volatility. The Monte Carlo simulation involves approximately 

300,000 market factors, making use of approximately 200,000 time series, 
with sensitivities updated daily and model parameters updated weekly.
The conservative features of the VAR calibration contribute approximately 
a 16% add-on to what would be a VAR estimated under the assumption of 

stable and perfectly normally distributed markets.As set forth in the table below, Citi™s total Trading and Credit Portfolios VAR 
was $144 million at December 31, 2013 and $118 million at December 31, 
2012. Daily total Trading and Credit Portfolios VAR averaged $121 million 

in 2013 and ranged from $93 million to $175 million. The change in 
total Trading and Credit Portfolios VAR was primarily driven by a loss of 



there was an increase in risk to G10 interest rate exposures and a reduction in 
commercial real estate exposures.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
20132013 Average
ˆ
˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˜ˆﬁ

$115$114˛˜˜343526271312˛˛(63)(75)Ÿﬁłž†““ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆˆ
$125$113˛˜˜›ˆ
ˆ$15$14Total Trading VARŠgeneral 
 market risk factors only 
 
(excluding credit portfolios)
ˆ(2)$110$99ˆ
198˜Total Trading and 
 Credit Portfolios VAR
$144$121ˆ
ŸŸˆ

›

ŸŸˆ

›ˆ†˙ˆ


ˆˆŸ

S&B

†““ˆ”Ÿˆﬁ
ˆ

Ÿﬁł˘
ˆ

›ﬁˆ

ˆ‘Ÿ


The table below provides the range of market factor VARs inclusive of 
specific risk that was experienced during 2013 and 2012.2013˜˚˛˜In millions of dollarsLowHigh
$92$142˛˚˛21661860824˜˛117The following table provides the VAR for 
S&B during 2013, excluding the CVA relating to derivative counterparties, hedges of CVA, fair value option 
loans, and hedges to the loan portfolio.In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 2013
TotalŠall market risk 
 factors, including general and specific risk
$123ﬁ
$10915181VAR Model Review and Validation
Generally, Citi™s VAR review and model validation process entails reviewing 
the model framework, major assumptions, and implementation of the 
mathematical algorithm. In addition, as part of the model validation 
process, product specific back-testing on portfolios is periodically completed 

VAR (as described below) back-testing is performed against buy-and-hold 
profit and loss on a monthly basis for approximately 164 portfolios across the 
organization (trading desk level, ICG business segment and Citigroup) and 

validated within Citi™s risk management organization. This validation 

process includes a review by Citi™s model validation group and further 

approval from its model validation review committee, which is composed 
of senior quantitative risk management officers. In the event of significant 
model changes, parallel model runs are undertaken prior to implementation. 
In addition, significant model and assumption changes are subject to the 

Citi uses the same independently validated VAR model for both Regulatory 
VAR and Risk Management VAR (i.e., Total Trading and Total Trading and 

Credit Portfolios VARs) and, as such, the model review and oversight process 

for both purposes is as described above.Regulatory VAR, which is calculated in accordance with Basel II.5, differs 
from Risk Management VAR due to the fact that certain positions included 

in Risk Management VAR are not eligible for market risk treatment in 

Regulatory VAR. The composition of 
Risk Management VAR is discussed
 
under ﬁValue at Riskﬂ
 above. The applicability of the VAR model for positions 



In accordance with Basel II.5, Regulatory VAR includes all trading book 
covered positions and all foreign exchange and commodity exposures. 
Pursuant to Basel II.5, Regulatory VAR excludes positions that fail to meet the 

intent and ability to trade requirements and are therefore classified as non-
trading book and categories of exposures that are specifically excluded as 
covered positions. Regulatory VAR excludes CVA on derivative instruments and 

DVA on Citi™s own 
fair value option liabilities, but includes associated hedges 
to that CVA as of April 2013 pursuant to regulatory guidance. As reflected in 

the graph on the following page, the impact of this asymmetrical treatment 
of including only CVA hedges drove an increase in Regulatory VAR beginning 

in April 2013. Citi expects that, effective April 1, 2014, CVA hedges will no 

longer be included as a covered position for market risk-weighted assets in 
accordance with the Final Basel III Rules. Instead, these positions will be 
included in credit risk-weighted assets as computed under the Advanced 
Approaches for determining risk-weighted-assets.118
Regulatory VAR Back-testing
In accordance with Basel II.5, Citi is required to perform back-testing to 
evaluate the effectiveness of its VAR model and to determine the capital 
multiplier used in the calculation of market risk-weighted-assets. Regulatory 
VAR back-testing is the process in which the daily one-day VAR, at a 99% 
confidence interval, is compared to the buy-and-hold profit and loss (e.g., the 
profit and loss impact if the portfolio is held constant at the end of the day 
and re-priced the following day) as required under Basel II.5. Based on a 99% 
confidence level, Citi would expect two to three days in any one year where 
buy-and-hold losses exceeded the Regulatory VAR. Given the conservative 
calibration of Citi™s VAR model (as a result of taking the greater of short- and 
long-term volatilities and fat tail scaling of volatilities), Citi would expect fewer 
exceptions under normal and stable market conditions. Periods of unstable 
market conditions could increase the number of back-testing exceptions.
The following graph shows the daily buy-and-hold profit and loss 
associated with Citi™s covered positions under Basel II.5 compared to Citi™s 
one-day Regulatory VAR during 2013. As the graph indicates, for the twelve 
month period ending December 31, 2013, there were no back-testing 
exceptions observed for Citi™s Regulatory VAR. Citi posted buy-and-hold gains 
in 49% of days where daily Regulatory VAR back-testing was performed. 
The difference between the 49% of buy-and-hold gains for Regulatory VAR 
back-testing and the 92% of gains shown in the histogram of daily trading 
related revenue above reflects, among other things, that a significant portion 
of Citi™s trading related revenue is not generated from daily price movements, 
on these positions and exposures as well as differences in the portfolio 
composition of Regulatory VAR and Risk Management VAR.
Regulatory Trading VAR and Associated Buy-and-Hold Profit and Loss
(1)
 Š Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollars
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
Buy-and-Hold Profit and Loss
Regulatory Trading VAR
Jan-13
Feb-13
Mar-13
Apr-13
May-13
Jun-13
Jul-13
Aug-13
Sep-13
Oct-13
Nov-13
Dec-13

ˆ

›˘ˆ
›ˆ
Stress Testing
Citi performs stress testing on a regular basis to estimate the impact of 
extreme market movements. It is performed on individual positions 
and 
trading portfolios, as well as in aggregate inclusive of multiple trading 
portfolios. Citi™s independent market risk management organization, after 
consultations with the businesses, develops both systemic and specific stress 
scenarios, reviews the output of periodic stress testing exercises, and uses the 
information to assess the ongoing appropriateness of exposure levels and 
limits. Citi uses two complementary approaches to market risk stress testing 
across all major risk factors (i.e., equity, foreign exchange, commodity, 
interest rate and credit spreads): top-down systemic stresses and bottom-






















potential impact of extreme market movements on a firm-wide basis, and are 
constructed using both historical periods of market stress and projections of 
adverse economic scenarios. Business specific stresses are designed to probe 
the risks of particular portfolios and market segments, especially those risks 
that are not fully captured in VaR and systemic stresses.
Factor Sensitivities
Factor sensitivities are expressed as the change in the value of a position for 
a defined change in a market risk factor, such as a change in the value of a 
Treasury bill for a one-basis-point change in interest rates. Citi™s independent 
market risk management ensures that factor sensitivities are calculated, 
monitored, and in most cases, limited, for all material risks taken in a 
trading portfolio.
119OPERATIONAL RISKOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, systems or human factors, or from external events. It includes the 
reputation and franchise risk associated with business practices or market 
conduct in which Citi is involved. Operational risk is inherent in Citigroup™s 
global business activities, as well as the internal processes that support those 
business activities, and can result in losses arising from events related to the 
following, among others:







Operational Risk ManagementCiti™s operational risk is managed through an overall framework designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well defined independent risk 
management. This framework includes:

independent assessment by Citi™s Internal Audit function.The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels relative to the characteristics of Citigroup™s businesses, the markets in which it operates, 
its capital and liquidity, and the competitive, economic and regulatory 

environment.To anticipate, mitigate and control operational risk, Citigroup maintains 
a system of policies and has established a consistent framework for 
monitoring, assessing and communicating operational risks and the overall 
effectiveness of the internal control environment across Citigroup. As part 
of this framework, Citi has established a ﬁManager™s Control Assessmentﬂ 

program to help managers self-assess key operational risks and controls and 
identify and address weaknesses in the design and/or effectiveness of internal 
controls that mitigate significant operational risks.As noted above, each major business segment must implement an operational risk process consistent with the requirements of this framework. 
The process for operational risk management includes the following steps:







ensure that sufficient resources are available to actively improve the operational risk environment and mitigate emerging risks.As new products and business activities are developed, processes are designed, modified or sourced through alternative means and operational risks are considered.An Operational Risk Council provides oversight for operational risk across Citigroup. The Council™s membership includes senior members of Citi™s 



covering multiple dimensions of risk management, with representatives of 
the Business and Regional Chief Risk Officers™ organizations. The Council™s 

focus is on identification and mitigation of operational risk and related 
incidents. The Council works with the business segments and the control 
functions (e.g., Compliance, Finance, Human Resources and Legal) with the 
objective of ensuring a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework 
for managing operational risk globally.
In addition, Enterprise Risk Management, within Citi™s Franchise Risk 

technology and the other independent control groups in enhancing the 
effectiveness of controls and managing operational risks across products, 
business lines and regions.Operational Risk Measurement and Stress TestingAs noted above, information about the businesses™ operational risk, historical 
operational risk losses and the control environment is reported by each major 
business segment and functional area. The information is summarized and 
reported to senior management, as well as to the Audit Committee of Citi™s 
Board of Directors.Operational risk is measured and assessed through risk capital (see ﬁManaging Global RiskŠRisk Capitalﬂ above). Projected operational risk 
losses under stress scenarios are also required as part of the Federal Reserve 
Board™s CCAR process.
120COUNTRY AND CROSS-BORDER RISKCOUNTRY RISKOverviewCountry risk is the risk that an event in a country (precipitated by 
developments internal or external to a country) could directly or indirectly 
impair the value of Citi™s franchise or adversely affect the ability of obligors 
within that country to honor their obligations to Citi, any of which could 
negatively impact Citi™s results of operations or financial condition. Country 
risk events could include sovereign volatility or defaults, banking failures 
or defaults, redenomination events (which could be accompanied by a 
revaluation (either devaluation or appreciation) of the affected currency), 
currency crises, foreign exchange and/or capital controls and/or political 
events and instability. Country risk events could result in mandatory loan 


Economic Risksﬂ above.Citi has instituted a risk management process to monitor, evaluate and 
manage the principal risks it assumes in conducting its activities, including 
risks associated with Citi™s country risk exposures. For additional information, 

see ﬁManaging Global Riskﬂ above. As part of this risk management process, 
Citi has a dedicated country risk unit that assesses and manages its country 
risk exposures. Citi™s independent risk management, working with input from 

the businesses and finance, provides periodic updates to senior management 
on significant potential areas of concern across Citi that can arise from risk 
concentrations, financial market participants and other systemic issues. 
These areas of focus are intended to be forward-looking assessments of the 
potential economic impacts to Citi that may arise from these exposures.While Citi continues to work to mitigate its exposures to potential country risk events, the impact of any such event is highly uncertain and 
will ultimately be based on the specific facts and circumstances. As a result, 
there can be no assurance that the various steps Citi has taken to protect 
its businesses, results of operations and financial condition against these 
events will be sufficient. In addition, there could be negative impacts to Citi™s 

businesses, results of operations or financial condition that are currently 
unknown to Citi and thus cannot be mitigated as part of its ongoing 
contingency planning.121Emerging Markets ExposuresCiti generally defines emerging markets as countries in Latin America, Asia (other than Japan, Australia and New Zealand), central and eastern Europe, 
the Middle East and Africa.The following table presents Citicorp™s principal emerging markets assets 
as of December 31, 2013. For purposes of the table below, loan amounts are 

based on the domicile of the borrower. For example, a loan to a Chinese 

as a loan in China. Trading account assets and investment securities are 

categorized below based on the domicile of the issuer of the security or the 
underlying reference entity.
As of December 31, 2013
GCB NCL RateIn billions of dollarsAggregate (1)Trading Account 
 Assets(2)Investment Securities(3)ICG Loans(4)(5)GCB Loans(4)20132012$74.2$5.7$27.6$9.6$31.34.0%39.9(0.9)12.14.823.91.1˛˘˛27.73.06.710.37.70.7
27.00.26.68.212.00.325.71.83.79.810.40.425.63.33.814.44.16.020.80.93.112.14.70.2
14.41.21.15.26.90.0˚˘˚11.20.46.02.02.80.110.30.71.46.51.71.6˛˘˛„†“†
8.91.20.51.75.50.76.40.20.64.31.32.55.40.50.61.82.55.2›ˆ
4.90.01.72.40.80.04.80.31.50.92.11.7ˇﬁŠ4.1(0.1)0.12.81.32.53.10.30.31.51.04.22.80.10.01.61.11.02.40.20.61.00.61.3›
2.20.31.10.40.41.5˜˘˜ˆﬁ……
Trading account assets, Investment securities
ICGGCBˆˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆ
ICG

ˆ
ˆˆˆ
ICG


ˆ˘
ˆGCB
ˆˆ
ˆﬁ−‡†˙−˘


ˆ
122
Emerging Markets Trading Account Assets and Investment Securities
In the ordinary course of business, Citi holds securities in its trading accounts 
and investment accounts, including those above. Trading account assets are 
marked to market daily, with asset levels varying as Citi maintains inventory 
consistent with customer needs. Investment securities are recorded at either 
fair value or historical cost, based on the underlying accounting treatment, 
and are predominantly held as part of the local entity asset and liability 
management program, or to comply with local regulatory requirements. 
In the markets in the table above, 98% of Citi™s investment securities were 
related to sovereign
 
issuers.
Emerging Markets Consumer Lending
GCB™s
 strategy within the emerging markets is consistent with 
GCB™s
 
overall strategy, which is to leverage its global footprint and seek to be the 
preeminent bank for the emerging affluent and affluent consumers in 
large urban centers. In credit cards and in certain retail markets, Citi serves 
customers in a somewhat broader set of segments and geographies. Overall, 
Citi believes that its customers are more resilient than the overall market 
under a wide range of economic conditions. Citi™s Consumer business has 
a well-established risk appetite framework across geographies and products 
that reflects the business strategy and activities and establishes boundaries 
around the key risks that arise from the strategy and
 
activities.
As of December 31, 2013, 
GCB
 had approximately $127
 
billion of 
Consumer loans outstanding to borrowers in the emerging markets, or 
approximately 42% of 
GCB™s
 total loans, compared to approximately 
$118
 
billion or 41% of total 
GCB
 loans as of December 31, 2012. Of the 
approximately $127
 
billion as of December 31, 2013, the five largest 

















comprised approximately 28% of 
GCB™s
 total
 
loans.
Within the emerging markets, 28% of Citi™s 
GCB
 loans were mortgages, 
27% were commercial markets loans, 23% were personal loans, and 22% were 
credit cards loans, each as of year-end
 
2013.
Overall consumer credit quality in the emerging markets remained 
generally stable in 2013, as net credit losses were 1.9% of average loans in 
2013, compared to 1.8% in 2012, consistent with Citi™s target market strategy 
and risk appetite
 
framework.
Emerging Markets Corporate Lending
Consistent with its overall strategy, Citi™s Corporate clients in the emerging 
markets are typically large, multi-national corporations who value Citi™s 
global network. Citi aims to establish relationships with these clients that 
encompass multiple products, consistent with client needs, including 
cash management and trade services, foreign exchange, lending, 
capital markets and M&A advisory. Citi believes that its target corporate 
segment is more resilient under a wide range of economic conditions, 
and that its relationship-based approach to client service enables it to 
effectively manage the risks inherent in such relationships. Citi has a 
well-established risk appetite framework around its corporate lending 
activities, including risk-based limits and approval authorities and portfolio 
concentration
 
boundaries.
As of December 31, 2013, 
ICG
 had approximately $126
 
billion of 
loans outstanding to borrowers in the emerging markets, representing 
approximately 47% of 
ICG™s
 total loans outstanding, as compared to 
approximately $117
 
billion or 48% of ICG loans outstanding at December 31, 
2012. No single emerging market country accounted for more than 6% of 
Citi™s 
ICG
 loans as of December 31,
 
2013.
As of December 31, 2013, approximately two-thirds of Citi™s emerging 
markets Corporate loans (excluding Private Bank in
 Securities and 
Banking
) are to borrowers whose ultimate parent is rated investment grade, 
which Citi considers to be ratings of BBB or better according to Citi™s internal 
risk measurement system and methodology (for additional information on 
Citi™s internal risk measurement system for Corporate loans, see ﬁCorporate 
Credit Detailsﬂ above). The vast majority of the remainder are rated BB or B 
according to Citi™s internal risk measurement system and
 
methodology.
Overall 
ICG 
net credit losses in the emerging markets were 0.04% of 
average loans in 2013, as compared to 0.2% in 2012. The ratio of non-
accrual 
ICG
 loans to total loans in the emerging markets remained stable at 
0.5% as of December 31, 2013, as compared with December 31,
 
2012.
The following chart shows the composition of emerging markets 
ICG
 
loans overall and for Citi™s three largest 
ICG
 lending marketsŠBrazil, China 
and IndiaŠby type of
 
loan.
India
China
Brazil
Total Emerging
Markets
43%
39%
18%
59%
29%
13%
47%
39%
13%
60%
37%
3%
$125.8
$14.4
$10.3
$12.1
Funded Emerging Markets ICG Loans by Loan Type 
In billions of dollars
Transaction Services
Corporate Lending in S&B
Private Bank and Other
123A significant portion of Corporate loans in S&B are to borrowers whose ultimate parent is headquartered in a different country, often in the developed 
markets. For example, as of December 31, 2013, in Brazil, approximately 
25% of Citi™s Corporate loans in 
S&B were to borrowers whose ultimate parent 
was domiciled in another country. In China, approximately 75% were to 

foreign multi-national corporations. In India, approximately 50% were to 
foreign multi-national corporations.GIIPS Sovereign, Financial Institution and Corporate Exposures


weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. Moreover, the ongoing 
Eurozone debt and economic crisis and other developments in the European 
Monetary Union (EMU) could lead to the withdrawal of one or more 
countries from the EMU or a partial or complete break-up of the EMU. The 
information below sets forth certain information regarding Citi™s country risk 
exposures on these topics as of December 31, 2013.The information in the tables below is based on Citi™s internal risk 
management measures and systems. The country designation in Citi™s 

internal risk management systems is based on the country to which the 
client relationship, taken as a whole, is most directly exposed to economic, 
financial, sociopolitical or legal risks. As a result, Citi™s reported exposures 

in a particular country may include exposures to subsidiaries within the 
client relationship that are actually domiciled outside of the country (e.g., 
Citi™s Greece credit risk exposures may include loans, derivatives and other 

exposures to a U.K. subsidiary of a Greece-based corporation).Citi believes that the risk of loss associated with the exposures set forth below is likely materially lower than the exposure amounts disclosed below 
and is sized appropriately relative to its franchise in these countries. In 
addition, the sovereign entities of the countries disclosed below, as well as 

the financial institutions and corporations domiciled in these countries, are 
important clients in the global Citi franchise. Citi fully expects to maintain 
its presence in these markets to service all of its global customers. As such, 
Citi™s exposures in these countries may vary over time based on its franchise, 

client needs and transaction structures.124GIIPS Sovereign, Financial Institution and Corporate ExposuresGIIPS (1)In billions of U.S. dollars
GreeceIrelandItalyPortugal
SpainDecember 31,2013September 30, 2013
$1.0$0.4$1.2$0.2$2.5$5.3$7.0ﬁˆ
0.50.59.20.22.913.312.7Gross funded credit exposure
$1.6$0.9$10.4$0.4$5.4$18.6$19.7
$(0.1)$(0.3)$(1.3)$(0.1)$(2.6)$(4.3)$(4.3)
(0.3)(0.0)(7.9)(0.2)(1.2)(9.6)(9.8)Net current funded credit exposure
$1.1$0.6$1.3$0.1$1.6$4.7$5.6$0.1$0.3$1.4$0.1$2.3$4.2$0.40.00.00.20.00.00.20.3Net trading and AFS exposure 
(6)$0.1$0.3$1.6$0.1$2.3$4.4$0.6Net current funded exposure
$1.2$0.9$2.9$0.2$3.9$9.1$6.2Additional collateral received, not reducing amounts above 
(7)$(0.7)$(0.1)$(0.1)(0.0)$(0.4)$(1.3)$(1.3)Net current funded credit exposure detail
$0.2$0.0$0.3(0.0)$(0.2)$0.4$1.10.10.10.10.00.91.10.8
0.80.50.80.10.93.2$3.7Net current funded credit exposure
$1.1$0.6$1.3$0.1$1.6$4.7$5.6Net unfunded commitments (8)$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.0$0.00.00.00.10.00.50.70.4
0.30.63.00.32.36.46.4Total net unfunded commitments
$0.3$0.6$3.1$0.3$2.8$7.1$6.8ˆ
ˆ
ˆ˘



ˆˆ


›
ˆˆ›
ˆˆ
ˆ
ˆˆ……
ˆ˘
ˆ…ˆ


ˆˆ˘ˆ

ˆ
ˆ


ˆˆ˘ˆ

ˆ›˘›ˆ


ˆˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆ
ˆ

ˆˆˆ
ˆ
125Retail, Small Business and Citi Private BankAs of December 31, 2013, Citi had approximately $4.7 billion of mostly 
locally funded accrual loans to retail, small business and Citi Private Bank 


approximately (i) $3.3 billion consisted of retail and small business 

related to held-to-maturity securitized retail assets (primarily mortgage-



and Greece ($0.6 billion), (ii) $0.9 billion related to held-to-maturity 
securitized retail assets, and (iii) $0.5 billion related to Private Bank 
In addition, Citi had approximately $4.4 billion of unfunded 



cancellable upon the occurrence of significant credit events, including 
redenomination events.Credit Default Swaps

to hedge its own credit exposure to these underlying entities that arises from 
loans to these entities or derivative transactions with these entities.




netting and margining agreements with a given counterparty. Thus, the 

credit exposure to that counterparty is measured and managed in aggregate 
across all products covered by a given netting or margining agreement.underlying single reference entities as of December 31, 2013 is set forth in 
the table below. The net notional contract amounts, less mark-to-market 

adjustments, are included in ﬁNet current funded exposureﬂ in the table 
above and appear in either ﬁNet trading exposureﬂ when part of a trading 
strategy or in ﬁPurchased credit protectionﬂ when purchased as a hedge 
against a credit exposure.Purchased credit protection generally pays out only upon the occurrence of certain credit events with respect to the country or borrower covered by 
the protection, as determined by a committee composed of dealers and other 
market participants. In addition to general counterparty credit risks, the 
credit protection may not fully cover all situations that may adversely affect 
the value of Citi™s exposure and, accordingly, Citi could still experience losses 

despite the existence of the credit protection.CDS purchased or sold on underlying single reference entities in these countriesIn billions of U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2013
GIIPSGreeceIrelandItalyPortugal
Spain
$(15.5)$(0.3)$(1.4)$(10.2)$(2.4)$(5.6)6.80.31.33.42.34.0

(12.4)(0.0)(0.9)(9.2)(1.7)(3.9)5.00.00.92.51.73.1
(2.0)ŠŠ(1.4)(0.3)(0.8)2.3ŠŠ1.50.41.0
(3.7)(0.3)(0.5)(1.4)(0.9)(2.1)2.40.30.51.20.81.1ˆ…
ˆ126seeks to purchase products from counterparties that would not be correlated with the underlying credit exposure it is hedging. In addition, Citi generally 
seeks to purchase products with a maturity date similar to the exposure 
against which the protection is purchased. While certain exposures may have 

market, Citi generally will purchase credit protection with a maximum tenor 
that is readily available in the market.
purchased credit protection. With respect to the $15.5 billion net purchased 



investment grade counterparties.Secured Financing TransactionsAs part of its banking activities with its clients, Citi enters into secured 
financing transactions, such as repurchase agreements and reverse 
repurchase agreements. These transactions typically involve the lending of 
cash, against which securities are taken as collateral. The amount of cash 
loaned against the securities collateral is a function of the liquidity and 
quality of the collateral as well as the credit quality of the counterparty. The 
collateral is typically marked to market daily, and Citi has the ability to call 
for additional collateral (usually in the form of cash) if the value of the 
securities falls below a pre-defined threshold.As shown in the table below, at December 31, 2013, Citi had loaned 

counterparties, usually through reverse repurchase agreements (compared 

approximately $16.7 billion fair value of securities collateral (compared to 


in cash, against all secured financing transactions.Consistent with Citi™s risk management systems, secured financing 
transactions are included in the counterparty derivative mark-to-market 
exposure at their net credit exposure value, which is typically small or zero 
given the over-collateralized structure of these
 transactions.In billions of dollars  
as of December 31, 2013
Cash financing outSecurities collateral in (1)
$14.4$16.7ˆ
ˆ

ˆCollateral taken in against secured financing transactions is generally high quality, marketable securities, consisting of government debt, corporate 

debt, or asset-backed securities. The table below sets forth the fair value of the 
securities collateral taken in by Citi against secured financing transactions as 
of December 31, 2013.In billions of dollars  
as of December 31, 2013
Total
Government
 bondsMunicipal or Corporate bondsAsset-backed bonds
$16.7$8.6$0.8$7.3
$16.4$8.6$0.6$7.3
0.1Š0.1Š
0.2Š0.2Šˆ
ˆ
ˆ
one year. In most cases, Citi has the right to call for additional margin 
daily, and can terminate the transaction and liquidate the collateral if 

the counterparty fails to post the additional margin. The table below 
sets forth the remaining transaction tenor for these transactions as of 
December 31, 2013.Remaining transaction tenorIn billions of dollars  
as of December 31, 2013
Total
<1 year1-3 years>3 years
$14.4$7.8$1.9$4.6ˆ
ˆ127Redenomination and Devaluation RiskAs referenced above, the ongoing Eurozone debt crisis and other 
developments in the EMU could lead to the withdrawal of one or more 
countries from the EMU or a partial or complete break-up of the EMU (see 
also ﬁRisk FactorsŠMarket and Economic Risksﬂ above). If one or more 
countries were to leave the EMU, certain obligations relating to the exiting 
country could be redenominated from the Euro to a new country currency. 
While alternative scenarios could develop, redenomination could be 
accompanied by immediate devaluation of the new currency as compared to 
Citi, like other financial institutions with substantial operations in the EMU, is exposed to potential redenomination and devaluation risks 
arising from (i) Euro-denominated assets and/or liabilities located or held 
within the exiting country that are governed by local country law (ﬁlocal 
exposuresﬂ), as well as (ii) other Euro-denominated assets and liabilities, 
such as loans, securitized products or derivatives, between entities outside of 
the exiting country and a client within the country that are governed by local 
country law (ﬁoffshore exposuresﬂ). However, the actual assets and liabilities 

that could be subject to redenomination and devaluation risk are subject to 
substantial legal and other uncertainty.
Citi has been, and will continue to be, engaged in contingency planning 

extent that Citi™s local and offshore assets are approximately equal to its 

liabilities within the exiting country, and assuming both assets and liabilities 

are symmetrically redenominated and devalued, Citi believes that its risk 
of loss as a result of a redenomination and devaluation event would not be 
material. However, to the extent its local and offshore assets and liabilities 

are not equal, or there is asymmetrical redenomination of assets versus 
liabilities, Citi could be exposed to losses in the event of a redenomination 
and devaluation. Moreover, a number of events that could accompany 

a redenomination and devaluation, including a drawdown of unfunded 
commitments or ﬁdeposit flight,ﬂ could exacerbate any mismatch of assets 
and liabilities within the exiting country.

December 31, 2013 are not additive to the risk exposures to such countries 
described above. Rather, Citi™s credit risk exposures in the affected country 

would generally be reduced to the extent of any redenomination and 
devaluation of assets.As of December 31, 2013, Citi estimates that it had net asset exposure subject to redenomination and devaluation in Italy, principally relating to 

derivatives contracts. Citi also estimates that, as of such date, it had net asset 

related to offshore exposures related to held-to-maturity securitized retail 

and Citi Private Bankﬂ above) and government bonds. However, as of 

December 31, 2013, Citi™s estimated redenomination and devaluation 

exposure to Italy was less than Citi™s net current funded credit exposure to 

Italy (before purchased credit protection) as reflected in the table above. 
Further, as of December 31, 2013, Citi™s estimated redenomination and 




the table above. As of December 31, 2013, Citi had a net liability position in 
each of Greece, Ireland and Portugal.As referenced above, Citi™s estimated redenomination and devaluation 
exposure does not include purchased credit protection. As described above, 
Citi has purchased credit protection primarily from investment grade, global 


purchased credit protection is available in a redenomination/devaluation 
event, any redenomination/devaluation exposure could be reduced.Any estimates of redenomination/devaluation exposure are subject to ongoing review and necessarily involve numerous assumptions, including 
which assets and liabilities would be subject to redenomination in any 
given case, the availability of purchased credit protection and the extent 
of any utilization of unfunded commitments, each as referenced above. 
In addition, other events outside of Citi™s control-such as the extent of any 

deposit flight and devaluation, the imposition of exchange and/or capital 
reserve requirements or any required timing of functional currency changes 
and the accounting impact thereof could further negatively impact Citi in 
such an event. Accordingly, in an actual redenomination and devaluation 

scenario, Citi™s exposures could vary considerably based on the specific facts 

and circumstances.128CROSS-BORDER RISKOverviewprevent the conversion of local currency into non-local currency and/or the 
transfer of funds outside the country, among other risks, thereby impacting 
the ability of Citigroup and its customers to transact business across borders. 
Examples of cross-border risk include actions taken by foreign governments 
such as exchange controls and restrictions on the remittance of funds. These 
actions might restrict the transfer of funds or the ability of Citigroup to obtain 
payment from customers on their contractual obligations. Management of 
cross-border risk at Citi is performed through a formal review process that 
includes annual setting of cross-border limits and ongoing monitoring of 
cross-border exposures as well as monitoring of economic conditions globally 

Market and Economic Risksﬂ above.FFIECŠCross-Border OutstandingsCiti™s cross-border disclosures are based on the country exposure bank 
regulatory reporting guidelines of the Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC), as revised in December 2013. The tables 
below reflect these revised guidelines for both December 31, 2013 and 2012.Reporting of cross-border exposure under FFIEC bank regulatory guidelines differs significantly from Citi™s country risk reporting, as described 

under ﬁCountry Riskﬂ above. The more significant differences are as follows:
counterparty, collateral, issuer or guarantor, as applicable, whereas Citi™s country risk reporting is based on the identification of the country where 
the client relationship, taken as a whole, is most directly exposed to the 
economic, financial, sociopolitical or legal risks.FFIEC amounts do not consider the benefit of collateral received for 
securities financing transactions (i.e. repurchase agreements, reverse 
repurchase agreements and securities loaned and borrowed) and are 
reported based on notional amounts, while country risk amounts are 
reported based on the net credit exposure arising from the transaction.Cross-border reporting under FFIEC guidelines permits netting of 
derivatives receivables and payables, reported at fair value, but only under 
a legally binding netting agreement with the same specific counterparty, 
and does not include the benefit of margin received or hedges, compared 
to country risk reporting which recognizes the benefit of margin and 
hedges and permits netting so long as under the same legally binding 
netting agreement.
portfolios is not permitted under FFIEC reporting, whereas such positions 
are reported on a net basis under country risk reporting.
based on the gross notional amount sold and purchased, and do not 


entity and adjusted for any mark-to-market receivable or payable position.FFIEC reporting requires loans be reported without the benefit of hedges, 
compared to country risk reporting which includes loans net of hedges 
and collateral.Given the differences noted above, Citi™s cross-border exposures and total 
outstandings tend to fluctuate, in some cases, significantly, from period to 
period. As an example, because total outstandings under FFIEC guidelines 
do not include the benefit of margin or hedges, market volatility in interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads will cause significant 
fluctuations in the level of total outstandings, all else being equal.In addition, as noted above, FFIEC bank regulatory guidelines for reporting of cross-border exposures were revised effective December 2013. 
These revisions resulted in changes to the presentation (including increasing 
the number of countries included) and calculation of Citi™s total cross-border 

outstandings, as compared to those previously disclosed at December 31, 

ﬁinvestments in and funding of local franchisesﬂ (i.e., local country assets) and require such assets to be included within the cross-border exposures 
below, (ii) no longer permit the offsetting of local country liabilities against 

local country assets, and (iii) make various changes in the categories 
required to be reported.129The tables below set forth the countries where Citigroup™s total outstandings exceeded 0.75% of total Citigroup assets as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:December 31, 2013
Cross-Border Claims on Third Parties and Local Country Assets
In billions of U.S. dollars
BanksPublicNBFIs (1)Other  (Corporateand Households)Trading
Assets (2)Short Term 
Claims (2)Total 
Outstanding (3)Commitments and Guarantees (4)Credit Derivatives 
Purchased (5)Credit Derivatives
 Sold (5)$30.6$12.3$37.2$31.6$14.5$62.3$111.7$17.7$136.5$130.96.837.07.640.78.244.292.15.46.26.3§†š†˙
14.929.012.76.411.444.963.03.523.822.7”†
0.40.046.35.22.941.851.91.30.10.01.516.30.528.72.835.647.019.111.29.015.22.813.85.95.324.637.712.393.591.27.24.05.118.17.513.634.411.915.314.46.710.91.615.04.823.334.23.82.01.8›
11.014.62.64.76.518.932.99.392.090.1
9.18.71.512.93.122.532.21.67.17.43.410.50.617.55.123.232.07.67.77.1
2.29.41.416.10.813.929.12.11.21.21.67.51.717.23.717.328.02.13.93.56.28.64.66.32.814.225.77.732.932.0›
2.815.00.41.36.37.019.53.276.068.94.19.60.84.50.614.419.05.729.128.6
1.77.00.29.91.711.718.814.00.20.16.64.10.35.54.710.016.52.237.435.6December 31, 2012
In billions of U.S. dollars
Total
 Outstanding (3)Commitments and  Guarantees (4)Credit Derivatives 
 Purchased (5)Credit Derivatives Sold
 (5)§†š†˙
”†
˜˘˜˚˘˛˚˘˛˛˛˘˜˜˛˘˜›

˛˛˘˛
˜˘˛›
˜˚˘˛
ˆˆˆˆˆ

ˆˆˆ

ˆ›˘
ˆˆ130Argentina and Venezuela DevelopmentsCiti operates in several countries with strict foreign exchange controls that 

funds outside the country. In such cases, Citi could be exposed to a risk of 

dollar.Argentina

currencies, which apply to capital repatriation efforts, certain operating 
expenses, and discretionary investments offshore, has become limited. 
In addition, beginning in January 2012, the Central Bank of Argentina 
increased its minimum capital requirements, which affects Citi™s ability to 
remit profits out of the country.As of December 31, 2013, Citi™s net investment in its Argentine operations 
was approximately $730 million, compared to $720 million as of 

Citi Argentina paid dividends to Citi of approximately $90 million.Citi uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency in Argentina 
exchange rate as published by the Central Bank of Argentina. During the 
fourth quarter of 2013, devaluation of the Argentine peso continued at an 
accelerated rate, with an official exchange rate of 6.52 Argentine pesos to one 



It is expected that the devaluation of the Argentine peso will continue for the 
foreseeable future.The impact of devaluations of the Argentine peso on Citi™s net investment 
in Argentina is reported as a translation loss in stockholders™ equity offset, to 
the extent hedged, by:
that have been designated as, and qualify for, hedge accounting under Derivatives and Hedging; and
monetary assets or currency futures held in Argentina that do not qualify 
At December 31, 2013, Citi had cumulative translation losses related to its investment in Argentina, net of qualifying net investment hedges, of approximately $1.30 billion (pretax), which were recorded 
in stockholders™ equity. The cumulative translation losses would not be 

reclassified into earnings unless realized upon sale or liquidation of Citi™s 

Argentine operations. While Citi currently uses the Argentine peso as the functional currency for its operations in Argentina, an increase in inflation resulting in a cumulative 
three-year inflation rate of 100% or more would result in a change in the 


by INDEC, the Argentine government™s statistics institute, suggest an annual 
inflation rate of approximately 10% to 11% for each of the three years ended 
December 31, 2013, whereas private institutions, economists, and local labor 
unions calculate the inflation rate to be closer to 25% to 30% annually over 
the same period. On February 1, 2013, the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF) issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with 
the Argentine government™s inaccurate inflation statistics. In February 2014, 

the Argentine government announced the new national consumer price 
index (CPI), and official inflation in January 2014 under the new CPI was 

future devaluations of the Argentine peso being recorded in earnings for Citi™s 

Argentine peso-denominated assets and liabilities.As noted above, Citi hedges currency risk in its net investment in Argentina 
become less available and more expensive and may not be available to offset 
any future currency devaluations that could occur. Moreover, on February 4, 

2014, Argentina™s central bank enacted new regulations which limit banks™ 

holdings of foreign currency, which could further limit Citi™s ability to hedge 

As of December 31, 2013, Citi™s total hedges against its net investment in 
Argentina were approximately $940 million. Of this amount, approximately 
$160 million consisted of foreign currency forwards that are recorded as 


in the net investment hedge year-over-year and sequentially was driven by 

significantly increased hedging costs. In addition, Citi Argentina held both 


(compared to $280 million and $370 million as of December 31, 2012 

notional value of approximately $310 million (compared to $170 million as 

The ongoing economic and political situation in Argentina could lead to further governmental intervention or regulatory restrictions on 
foreign investments in Argentina, including further devaluation of the 
Argentine peso, further limits to foreign currency holdings, or the potential 

pesos, which could be accompanied by a devaluation of the Argentine 
peso. Any redenomination could occur at different rates (asymmetric 
redenomination) and/or rates other than the official foreign exchange rate. 

any gains or losses resulting from redenomination, are subject to substantial 

and Corporate ExposuresŠRedenomination and Devaluation Riskﬂ above 
for a general discussion of redenomination and devaluation risk). As of 
December 31, 2013, Citi had total third-party assets of $3.9 billion in Citi 
Argentina, compared to $3.8 billion at December 31, 2012, consisting of 


denominated assets of approximately $920 million, compared to $1.5 billion 
at December 31, 2012.131Venezuela
controls. Under these controls, the Venezuelan government™s Foreign 
Currency Administration Commission (CADIVI) purchases and sells foreign 
currency at an official foreign exchange rate fixed by the government (as of 
December 31, 2013, the official exchange rate was fixed at 6.3 bolivars to one 
The exchange controls
dollars in Venezuela at the official foreign currency rate. Citi has not been 


mechanism in Venezuela established to settle certain import transactions. 


approximately $1.7 billion. As of December 31, 2013, the rate published by 

As of December 31, 2013, Citi used the official CADIVI exchange rate of 



rate was the only rate legally available to Citi at December 31, 2013 in the 


although the official rate may not necessarily be reflective of economic 
reality. Re-measurement of Citi™s bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities 

due to changes in the exchange rate is recorded in earnings.At December 31, 2013, Citi™s net investment in its Venezuelan operations 
was approximately $240 million (compared to $340 million at December 31, 

assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivars of approximately $220
 million 
(compared to $290 million at December 31, 2012 and $220 million 



approximately $1.2 billion at December 31, 2013, composed primarily of 
cash, loans and debt securities.In January 2014, the Venezuelan government announced that the 
exchange rate to be applied to foreign currency transactions related to 

going forward. Accordingly, beginning in the first quarter of 2014, Citi 











$110 million foreign currency loss in the first quarter of 2014, which could 

beginning in the first quarter of 2014, Citi™s revenues and expenses will be 


More recently, the Venezuelan government has also announced the 

this new foreign exchange market have been announced, Citi will determine 
whether further changes to the foreign exchange rate used to translate Citi™s 

results in Venezuela are necessary. Any further changes could negatively 

affect Citi™s financial results in the
 future.EgyptThere has been ongoing political transition and sporadic civil unrest in 
Egypt, contributing to significant economic uncertainty and volatility. Citi 
operates in Egypt through a branch of Citibank N.A., and uses the Egyptian 
pound as the functional currency to translate its financial statements into 

net investment in Egypt was approximately $250 million, unchanged 

related to its investment in Egypt, net of qualifying net investment hedges, 
of approximately $123 million (pretax), compared to approximately 

net investment is hedged with forward foreign-exchange derivatives. Total 
third-party assets of the Egypt Citibank, N.A. branch were approximately 

primarily of cash on deposit with the Central Bank of Egypt, loans and short-
term local government debt securities. A significant majority of these third-
party assets were funded with local deposit liabilities. Citi continues to closely 
monitor the political and economic situation in Egypt, and will continue to 
take actions to mitigate its exposures to potential risk events.UkraineThere have been political changes, civil unrest and military action in 
Ukraine, contributing to significant economic uncertainty and volatility. 
Citi operates in Ukraine through a subsidiary of Citibank, N.A., and uses 


all of the net investment is hedged with a Ukraine sovereign bond indexed 
to foreign exchange rates which is subject to sovereign political risk. Total 
third-party assets of the Ukraine Citibank subsidiary were approximately 
$0.6 billion, as of December 31, 2013, composed primarily of cash on 
deposit with the Central Bank of Ukraine, short-term local government debt 
securities and corporate loans. A significant majority of these third-party 
assets were funded with local deposit liabilities. Citi continues to closely 
monitor the political, economic and military situation in Ukraine, and will 
continue to take actions to mitigate its exposures to potential risk events.132
FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS FOR DERIVATIVES AND FAIR VALUE OPTION
 LIABILITIES
The following discussion relates to the derivative obligor information and the 
fair valuation for derivatives and liabilities for which the fair value option 
(FVO) has been elected. See Notes
 
25 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for additional information on Citi™s derivative activities and FVO 
liabilities,
 
respectively.
Fair Valuation Adjustments for Derivatives
The fair value adjustments applied by Citi to its derivative carrying values 
consist of the following
 
items:

 
Liquidity adjustments are applied to items in Level
 
2 or Level
 
3 of 
the fair-value hierarchy (see Note
 
25 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for more details) to ensure that the fair value reflects the price 
at which the net open risk position could be liquidated. The liquidity 
reserve is based on the bid/offer spread for an instrument. When Citi 
has elected to measure certain portfolios of financial investments, such 
as derivatives, on the basis of the net open risk position, the liquidity 
reserve is adjusted to take into account the size of the position. Citi uses 
the relevant benchmark curve for the currency of the derivative (e.g., the 
London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar derivatives) as the discount 
rate for uncollateralized derivatives. As of December 31, 2013, Citi has 
not recognized any valuation adjustments to reflect the cost of funding 
uncollateralized derivative positions beyond that implied by the relevant 
benchmark curve. Citi continues to monitor market practices and activity 
with respect to discounting in derivative
 
valuation.

 
Credit valuation adjustments (CVA) are applied to over-the-counter 
derivative instruments, in which the base valuation generally discounts 
expected cash flows using the relevant base interest rate curves. Because 
not all counterparties have the same credit risk as that implied by the 
relevant base curve, a CVA is necessary to incorporate the market view of 
both counterparty credit risk and Citi™s own credit risk in the
 
valuation.
Citi™s CVA methodology is composed of two steps. First, the exposure 
profile for each counterparty is determined using the terms of all individual 
derivative positions and a Monte Carlo simulation or other quantitative 
analysis to generate a series of expected cash flows at future points in time. 
The calculation of this exposure profile considers the effect of credit risk 
mitigants, including pledged cash or other collateral and any legal right 
of offset that exists with a counterparty through arrangements such as 
netting agreements. Individual derivative contracts that are subject to an 
enforceable master netting agreement with a counterparty are aggregated 
for this purpose, since it is those aggregate net cash flows that are subject to 
nonperformance risk. This process identifies specific, point-in-time future 
cash flows that are subject to nonperformance risk, rather than using the 
current recognized net asset or liability as a basis to measure the
 
CVA.
Second, market-based views of default probabilities derived from 
observed credit spreads in the credit default swap (CDS) market are applied 
to the expected future cash flows determined in step one. Citi™s own-credit 
CVA is determined using Citi-specific CDS spreads for the relevant tenor. 
Generally, counterparty CVA is determined using CDS spread indices for each 
credit rating and tenor. For certain identified netting sets where individual 
analysis is practicable (e.g.,
 
exposures to counterparties with liquid CDS), 
counterparty-specific CDS spreads are
 
used.
The CVA is designed to incorporate a market view of the credit risk 
inherent in the derivative portfolio. However, most unsecured derivative 
instruments are negotiated bilateral contracts and are not commonly 
transferred to third parties. Derivative instruments are normally settled 
contractually or, if terminated early, are terminated at a value negotiated 
bilaterally between the counterparties. Therefore, the CVA (both counterparty 
and own-credit) may not be realized upon a settlement or termination 
in the normal course of business. In addition, all or a portion of the CVA 
may be reversed or otherwise adjusted in future periods in the event of 
changes in the credit risk of Citi or its counterparties, or changes in the 
credit mitigants (collateral and netting agreements) associated with the 
derivative
 
instruments.
The table below summarizes the CVA applied to the fair value of derivative 
instruments for the periods
 
indicated:
Credit valuation adjustment 
contra-liability (contra-asset)
In millions of dollars
December 31,
 
2013

ˇ


ˇ

$
(1,733)



ˇ

ˇ

651

Total CVAŠderivative instruments
$
(1,082)


Own Debt Valuation Adjustments
Own debt valuation adjustments (DVA) are recognized on Citi™s liabilities for 
which the fair value option (FVO) has been elected using Citi™s credit spreads 
observed in the bond market. Accordingly, the fair value of the liabilities for 
which the fair value option has been elected (other than non-recourse and 
similar liabilities) is impacted by the narrowing or widening of Citi™s credit 
spreads. Changes in fair value resulting from changes in Citi™s instrument-
specific credit risk are estimated by incorporating Citi™s current credit spreads 
observable in the bond market into the relevant valuation technique used to 
value each
 
liability.
The table below summarizes pretax gains (losses) related to changes in 
CVA on derivative instruments, net of hedges, and DVA on own FVO liabilities 
for the periods
 
indicated:
Credit/debt valuation
adjustment gain (loss)
 (1)
In millions of dollars
2013



ˇ

ˇ

$
291





ˇ

ˇ

(223)

†’˘
Total CVAŠderivative instruments
$
68



˘˘

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

$
(410)




Total CVA and DVA
$
(342)





ˇˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ
‡
ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ


ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

133CREDIT DERIVATIVESCitigroup makes markets in and trades a range of credit derivatives on behalf of clients and in connection with its risk management activities. Through 
these contracts, Citi either purchases or writes protection on either a single-
name or portfolio basis. Citi primarily uses credit derivatives to help mitigate 
credit risk in its corporate loan portfolio and other cash positions, and to 
facilitate client transactions.Credit derivatives generally require that the seller of credit protection make payments to the buyer upon the occurrence of predefined events 
(settlement triggers). These settlement triggers, which are defined by the 
form of the derivative and the referenced credit, are generally limited to 
the market standard of failure to pay indebtedness and bankruptcy (or 
comparable events) of the reference credit and, in a more limited range 
of transactions, debt restructuring. Credit derivative transactions referring 
to emerging market reference credits will also typically include additional 
settlement triggers to cover the acceleration of indebtedness and the risk of 
repudiation or a payment moratorium. In certain transactions on a portfolio 
of referenced credits or asset-backed securities, the seller of protection may 
not be required to make payment until a specified amount of losses has 
occurred with respect to the portfolio and/or may only be required to pay for 
losses up to a specified amount.Citi generally has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protection purchased and sold, and it may hold the reference assets directly, 

rather than entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts as and when desired. The open risk exposures from credit derivative contracts are largely 
matched after certain cash positions in reference assets are considered and 
after notional amounts are adjusted, either to a duration-based equivalent 
basis or to reflect the level of subordination in tranched structures.Citi monitors its counterparty credit risk in credit derivative contracts. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, approximately 97% of the 
gross receivables are from counterparties with which Citi maintains collateral 
agreements. A majority of Citi™s top 15 counterparties (by receivable balance 

owed to Citi) are banks, financial institutions or other dealers. Contracts 
with these counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events. 
However, counterparty ratings downgrades may have an incremental effect by 

lowering the threshold at which Citi may call for additional collateral.The ratings of the credit derivatives portfolio presented in the following table are based on the assigned internal or external ratings of the referenced 
asset or entity. Where external ratings are used, investment-grade ratings are 

considered to be ‚Baa/BBB™ and above, while anything below is considered 
non-investment grade. Citi™s internal ratings are in line with the related 

external rating system. On certain underlying referenced credits or entities, 
ratings are not available. Such referenced credits are included in the ﬁnot 
ratedﬂ category and are primarily related to credit default swaps and other 
derivatives referencing investment grade and high yield credit index products 
and customized baskets.134The following tables summarize the key characteristics of Citi™s credit derivatives portfolio by counterparty and derivative form as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:Fair values
NotionalsDecember 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsReceivable
 (1)Payable
 (2)Protection purchasedProtection soldBy industry/counterparty
$24,992$23,455$739,646$727,748
8,8409,820254,250224,0731381624,9302,820ˇˇˇˇ6,4477,922216,236188,722Total by industry/counterparty
$40,417$41,359$1,215,062$1,143,363By instrumentˇˇ
ˇˇ$40,233$39,930$1,201,716$1,141,864›
ˇˇ
ˇˇ1841,42913,3461,499Total by instrument
$40,417$41,359$1,215,062$1,143,363By ratingˇ
$12,062$11,691$576,844$546,011ˇ
15,21614,188173,980170,789ˇ
13,13915,480464,238426,563Total by rating
$40,417$41,359$1,215,062$1,143,363By maturityˇ$2,901$3,262$254,305$221,562ˇˇˇ31,67432,349883,879853,391ˇ5,8425,74876,87868,410Total by maturity
$40,417$41,359$1,215,062$1,143,363ˇˇˇˇˇ˙š˚
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ›…˚ˇˇˇˇ˙š˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ—
ˇ›…˚ˇˇˇˇ˙š˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ—
135Fair values
NotionalsDecember 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsReceivable
 (1)Payable
 (2)Protection purchasedProtection soldBy industry/counterparty

“™™ˇˇˇˇTotal by industry/counterparty
By instrumentˇˇ
ˇˇ›
ˇˇ
ˇˇTotal by instrument
By ratingˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Total by rating
By maturityˇˇˇˇˇTotal by maturity
ˇˇˇˇˇ˙š˚
ˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇˇˇ
ˇ›…˚ˇˇˇˇ˙š˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ—
ˇ›…˚ˇˇˇˇ˙š˚
ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ—
136SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains a summary of Citigroup™s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently 
issued accounting pronouncements. These policies, as well as estimates made 
by management, are integral to the presentation of Citi™s results of operations 
and financial condition. While all of these policies require a certain level of 
management judgment and estimates, this section highlights and discusses 
the significant accounting policies that require management to make highly 
difficult, complex or subjective judgments and estimates at times regarding 
matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to change (see also 
ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ). Management has 
discussed each of these significant accounting policies, the related estimates, 
and its judgments with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Additional information about these policies can be found in Note 1 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.Valuations of Financial InstrumentsCitigroup holds debt and equity securities, derivatives, retained interests 
in securitizations, investments in private equity and other financial 
instruments. In addition, Citi purchases securities under agreements to 
resell (reverse repos) and sells securities under agreements to repurchase 
(repos). Citigroup holds its investments, trading assets and liabilities, and 
resale and repurchase agreements on the Consolidated Balance Sheet to meet 
customer needs and to manage liquidity needs, interest rate risks and private 
equity investing.Substantially all of the assets and liabilities described in the preceding paragraph are reflected at fair value on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

In addition, certain loans, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and 
deposits, as well as certain securities borrowed and loaned positions that are 
collateralized with cash, are carried at fair value. Approximately 39.0% and 
42.7% of total assets, and 11.6% and 16.0% of total liabilities, were accounted 
for at fair value as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
When available, Citi generally uses quoted market prices to determine fair value and classifies such items within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy 
established under ASC 820-10, Fair Value Measurement
 (see Note 25 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements). If quoted market prices are not 
available, fair value is based upon internally developed valuation models that 
use, where possible, current market-based or independently sourced market 
parameters, such as interest rates, currency rates and option volatilities. 
Where a model is internally developed and used to price a significant 
product, it is subject to validation and testing by Citi™s separate model 

verification group. Such models are often based on a discounted cash flow 
analysis. In addition, items valued using such internally generated valuation 
techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver 
that is significant to the valuation. Thus, an item may be classified under the 
fair value hierarchy as Level 3 even though there may be some significant 
inputs that are readily observable.The credit crisis caused some markets to become illiquid, thus reducing the availability of certain observable data used by Citi™s valuation techniques. 

This illiquidity, in at least certain markets, continued through 2013. When 

or if liquidity returns to these markets, the valuations will revert to using the related observable inputs in verifying internally calculated values. For 
additional information on Citigroup™s fair value analysis, see Notes 25 and 26 

to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Recognition of Changes in Fair ValueChanges in the valuation of the trading assets and liabilities, as well as all 
other assets (excluding available-for-sale securities (AFS) and derivatives 
in qualifying cash flow hedging relationships) and liabilities carried at fair 
value, are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Changes in 
the valuation of AFS, other than write-offs and credit impairments, and the 
effective portion of changes in the valuation of derivatives in qualifying 
cash flow hedging relationships generally are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI), which is a component of 
Stockholders™ equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. A full description of 
Citi™s policies and procedures relating to recognition of changes in fair value 
can be found in Notes 1, 25 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Evaluation of Other-than-Temporary ImpairmentCiti conducts and documents periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized 
losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other-than-temporary. Under 
the guidance for debt securities, other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) 
is recognized in earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Income for debt securities that Citi has an intent to sell or that Citi believes it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost 
basis. For those securities that Citi does not intend to sell nor expect to be 
required to sell, credit-related impairment is recognized in earnings, with the 
non-credit-related impairment recorded in AOCI.An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for 
AFS securities, while such losses related to held-to-maturity (HTM) securities 
are not recorded, as these investments are carried at their amortized cost (less 
any OTTI). For securities transferred to HTM from Trading account assets
, amortized cost is defined as the fair value amount of the securities at the date 
of transfer plus any accretion income and less any impairments recognized 
in earnings subsequent to transfer. For securities transferred to HTM from 

AFS, amortized cost is defined as the original purchase cost, plus or minus 
any accretion or amortization of a purchase discount or premium, less any 
impairment recognized in earnings.Regardless of the classification of the securities as AFS or HTM, Citi assesses each position with an unrealized loss for OTTI.Management assesses equity method investments with fair value less than carrying value for OTTI, as discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For investments that management does not plan to sell prior to recovery of value, or Citi is not likely to be required to sell, various 
factors are considered in assessing OTTI. For investments that Citi plans to 
sell prior to recovery of value, or would likely be required to sell and there 
is no expectation that the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale 
date, the full impairment would be recognized in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.137CVA/DVA MethodologyASC 820-10 requires that Citi™s own credit risk be considered in determining 
the market value of any Citi liability carried at fair value. These liabilities 
include derivative instruments as well as debt and other liabilities for which 
the fair value option has been elected. The credit valuation adjustment 
(CVA) also incorporates the market view of the counterparty credit risk in 
the valuation of derivative assets. The CVA is recognized on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as a reduction or increase in the associated derivative asset or 
liability to arrive at the fair value (carrying value) of the derivative asset or 
liability. The debt valuation adjustment (DVA) is recognized on the balance 
sheet as a reduction or increase in the associated fair value option debt 
liability to arrive at the fair value of the liability. For additional information, 
see ﬁFair Value Adjustments for Derivatives and FVO Liabilitiesﬂ above.Allowance for Credit LossesAllowance for Funded Lending Commitments
Management provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent 
in the funded loan portfolio on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the 
form of an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are established in 
accordance with Citigroup™s credit reserve policies, as approved by the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer review the adequacy of the credit loss reserves each 
quarter with representatives from the risk management and finance staffs 
for each applicable business area. Applicable business areas include those 
having classifiably managed portfolios, where internal credit-risk ratings 
are assigned (primarily Institutional Clients Group and Global Consumer 
Banking), or modified Consumer loans, where concessions were granted due 
to the borrowers™ financial difficulties.The above-mentioned representatives covering these respective business areas present recommended reserve balances for their funded and unfunded 
lending portfolios along with supporting quantitative and qualitative data. 
The quantitative data include:Estimated Probable Losses for Non-Performing, Non-Homogeneous Exposures Within a Business Line™s Classifiably Managed Portfolio and 
Impaired Smaller-Balance Homogeneous Loans Whose Terms Have 
Been Modified Due to the Borrowers™ Financial Difficulties, Where It Was 
Determined That a Concession Was Granted to the Borrower.
Consideration may be given to the following, as appropriate, when 
determining this estimate: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s original effective rate; (ii) the borrower™s overall 
financial condition, resources and payment record; and (iii) the prospects 
for support from financially responsible guarantors or the realizable value of any collateral. When impairment is measured based on the present value of 
expected future cash flows, the entire change in present value is recorded in 
the Provision for loan losses.Statistically Calculated Losses Inherent in the Classifiably Managed Portfolio for Performing and De Minimus Non-Performing Exposures.
The calculation is based upon: (i) Citigroup™s internal system of credit-
risk ratings, which are analogous to the risk ratings of the major credit 
rating agencies; and (ii) historical default and loss data, including rating 
agency information regarding default rates from 1983 to 2012, and 
internal data dating to the early 1970s on severity of losses in the event of 
default. Adjustments may be made to this data. Such adjustments include: 
(i) statistically calculated estimates to cover the historical fluctuation 
of the default rates over the credit cycle, the historical variability of loss 
severity among defaulted loans, and the degree to which there are large 
obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; and (ii) adjustments made 
for specifically known items, such as current environmental factors and 
credit trends.In addition, representatives from both the risk management and finance staffs that cover business areas with delinquency-managed portfolios 
containing smaller homogeneous loans present their recommended reserve 
balances based upon leading credit indicators, including loan delinquencies 
and changes in portfolio size, as well as economic trends, including housing 
prices, unemployment and GDP. This methodology is applied separately for 

each individual product within each different geographic region in which 
these portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on Citi™s credit costs 

in any period and could result in a change in the allowance. Changes to the 
allowance are recorded in the Provision for loan losses.Allowance for Unfunded Lending Commitments
A similar approach to the allowance for loan losses is used for calculating 
a reserve for the expected losses related to unfunded loan commitments 
and standby letters of credit. This reserve is classified on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the allowance for unfunded 
lending commitments are recorded in the Provision for unfunded 
lending commitments.For a further description of the loan loss reserve and related accounts, see Notes 1 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.138SecuritizationsCitigroup securitizes a number of different asset classes as a means of strengthening its balance sheet and accessing competitive financing rates in 
the market. Under these securitization programs, assets are transferred into 
a trust and used as collateral by the trust to obtain financing. The cash flows 
from assets in the trust service the corresponding trust liabilities and equity 
interests. If the structure of the trust meets certain accounting guidelines, 
trust assets are treated as sold and are no longer reflected as assets of Citi. 
If these guidelines are not met, the assets continue to be recorded as Citi™s 
assets, with the financing activity recorded as liabilities on Citi™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet.Citigroup also assists its clients in securitizing their financial assets and packages and securitizes financial assets purchased in the financial markets. 
Citi may also provide administrative, asset management, underwriting, 
liquidity facilities and/or other services to the resulting securitization entities 
and may continue to service some of these financial assets.GoodwillCitigroup has recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheet goodwill 
of $25.0 billion (1.3% of assets) and $25.7 billion (1.4% of assets) at 
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Goodwill is tested 
for impairment annually on July 1 and between annual tests if an event 
occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce 
the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. No goodwill 
impairment was recorded during 2013, 2012 and 2011.As discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as of December 31, 2013, Citigroup consists of the following business segments: 
Global Consumer Banking, Institutional Clients Group, Corporate/
Other and Citi Holdings. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the 
level below the business segment (referred to as reporting unit). Goodwill 
is allocated to Citi™s reporting units at the date the goodwill is initially 

recorded. Once goodwill has been allocated to the reporting units, it 
generally no longer retains its identification with a particular acquisition, 
but instead becomes identified with the reporting unit as a whole. As a 
result, all of the fair value of each reporting unit is available to support the 
allocated goodwill. The nine reporting units at December 31, 2013 were 
North America Regional Consumer Banking, EMEA Regional Consumer 
Banking, Asia Regional Consumer Banking, Latin America Regional 
Consumer Banking, Securities and Banking, Transaction Services, 

Latin America Retirement Services, Citi HoldingsŠCards
 and Citi 
HoldingsŠOther.The reporting unit structure in 2013 was the same as the reporting unit structure in 2012, although selected names were changed and certain 
underlying businesses were transferred between certain reporting units in 
the third quarter of 2013. Specifically, assets were transferred from the legacy 

Brokerage Asset Management reporting unit to the Special Asset Pool, both 
components within the Citi Holdings segment. While goodwill affected by the 
reorganization is reassigned to reporting units that receive businesses using 
a relative fair value approach, no goodwill was allocated to this transferred portfolio as the assets do not represent a business as defined by GAAP and 
therefore goodwill allocation was not appropriate. The legacy reporting 
unit was renamed as Latin America Retirement Services, and continues to hold the $42 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2013. Additionally, the 

legacy Local Consumer LendingŠ Cards reporting unit was renamed Citi 
HoldingsŠCards
, but no changes were made to the businesses and assets 
assigned to the reporting unit. An interim goodwill impairment test was 
performed on the impacted reporting units as of July 1, 2013, resulting in 
no impairment.Under ASC 350, IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other, the goodwill impairment analysis is done in two steps. Citi has an option to assess 
qualitative factors to determine if it is necessary to perform the goodwill 
impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, 
Citi determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a 
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, no further testing is necessary. 

If, however, Citi determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value 

of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then Citi is required to 
perform the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test.The first step requires a comparison of the fair value of the individual reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of 
the reporting unit is in excess of the carrying value, the related goodwill 
is considered not to be impaired and no further analysis is necessary. If 

the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, there is an 
indication of potential impairment and a second step of testing is performed 
to measure the amount of impairment, if any, for that reporting
 unit.If required, the second step involves calculating the implied fair value of goodwill for each of the affected reporting units. The implied fair value 
of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill 
recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of 
the reporting unit determined in step one over the fair value of the net assets 
and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit were being acquired. 
If the amount of the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit exceeds the 
implied fair value of the goodwill in the pro forma purchase price allocation, 
an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. A recognized impairment 
charge cannot exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to a reporting unit 
and cannot subsequently be reversed even if the fair value of the reporting 
unit recovers.The carrying value used in both steps of the impairment test for each reporting unit is derived by allocating Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity 

to each component (defined below) based on regulatory capital and tangible 
common equity assessed for each component. The assigned carrying value of 
Citi™s nine reporting units, plus the legacy 
Special Asset Pool and Corporate/
Other (together the ﬁcomponentsﬂ), is equal to Citigroup™s total stockholders™ 

equity. Regulatory capital is derived using each component™s Basel III 

risk-weighted assets. Specifically identified Basel III capital deductions are 
then added to the components™ regulatory capital to assign Citigroup™s total 

tangible common equity. In allocating Citigroup™s total stockholders™ equity 

to each component, the reported goodwill and intangibles associated with 139each reporting unit are specifically included in the carrying amount of the respective reporting units, and the remaining stockholders™ equity is then 
allocated to each component based on the relative tangible common equity 
associated with each component.Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying value of the reporting unit can be 
supported by the fair value of the individual reporting unit using widely 
accepted valuation techniques, such as the market approach (earnings 
multiples and/or transaction multiples) and/or the income approach 
(discounted cash flow (DCF) method). In applying these methodologies, Citi 
utilizes a number of factors, including actual operating results, future 
business plans, economic projections and market data. Citi prepares a 
formal three-year strategic plan for its businesses on an annual basis. These 
projections incorporate certain external economic projections developed at 
the point in time the plan is developed. For the purpose of performing any 
impairment test, the most recent three-year forecast available is updated by 
Citi to reflect current economic conditions as of the testing date. Citi used 
the updated long-range financial forecasts as a basis for its annual goodwill 
impairment test. Management may engage an independent valuation 
specialist to assist in Citi™s valuation
 process.Citigroup engaged an independent valuation specialist in 2013 and 2012 to assist in Citi™s valuation for most of the reporting units employing both the 

market approach and DCF method. Citi believes that the DCF method, using 
management projections for the selected reporting units and an appropriate 
risk-adjusted discount rate, is most reflective of a market participant™s view 

of fair values given current market conditions. For the reporting units where 
both methods were utilized in 2013 and 2012, the resulting fair values were 
relatively consistent and appropriate weighting was given to outputs from 
both methods.The DCF method used at the time of each impairment test used discount rates that Citi believes adequately reflected the risk and uncertainty in the 
financial markets generally and specifically in the internally generated cash 
flow projections. The DCF method employs a capital asset pricing model in 
estimating the discount rate. Citi continues to value the remaining reporting 
units where it believes the risk of impairment to be low, primarily using the 

market approach.Citi performs its annual goodwill impairment test as of July 1. The results of the 2013 annual impairment test validated that the fair values 
exceeded the carrying values for the reporting units that had goodwill at the 
testing date. Citi is also required to test goodwill for impairment whenever 
events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment 
may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business 
climate, a decision to sell or dispose of all or a significant portion of a 
reporting unit, or a significant decline in Citi™s stock price. No other interim 

goodwill impairment tests were performed during 2013, outside of the test 
performed during the third quarter after the reporting unit reorganization, as 
discussed above.Since none of the Company™s reporting units are publicly traded, 
individual reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly 
correlated to Citigroup™s common stock price. The sum of the fair values of 

the reporting units at July 1, 2013 exceeded the overall market capitalization, 
of Citi as of July 1, 2013. However, Citi believes that it was not meaningful 

to reconcile the sum of the fair values of Citi™s reporting units to its market 

capitalization as the market capitalization of Citigroup reflects the execution 
risk in a transaction involving Citigroup due to its size. However, the 

individual reporting units™ fair values are not subject to the same level of 
execution risk or a business model that is perceived to be as complex.See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on goodwill, including the changes in the goodwill 
balance year-over-year and the reporting unit goodwill balances as of 

December 31, 2013.Income TaxesOverview
Citi is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and local 
municipalities and the foreign jurisdictions in which Citi operates. These 
tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the 
taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. Disputes over 
interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by 
the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the 
taxing authority upon audit.In establishing a provision for income tax expense, Citi must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently 
complex tax laws. Citi must also make estimates about when in the future 
certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both 
domestic and foreign. Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences 
of events that have been recognized in the financial statements or tax 
returns, based upon enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets (DTAs) are 

recognized subject to management™s judgment that realization is more likely 

than not. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further 
discussion of Citi™s tax provision and related income tax assets and
 liabilities.DTAsAt December 31, 2013, Citi had recorded net DTAs of $52.8 billion, a decrease 
of $2.5 billion (including approximately $700 million in the fourth quarter 
of 2013) from $55.3 billion at December 31, 2012. The decrease in total 
DTAs year-over-year was due to the earnings of Citicorp, partially offset by 
the continued negative impact of Citi Holdings on U.S. taxable income. 
Foreign tax credits (FTCs) composed approximately $19.6 billion of Citi™s 
DTAs as of December 31, 2013, compared to approximately $22 billion 
as of December 31, 2012. The decrease in FTCs year-over-year was due to 
the generation of U.S. taxable income and represented $2.4 billion of the 
$2.5 billion decrease in Citi™s overall DTAs noted above. The FTCs carry-
forward periods represent the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs. 140For a tabular summary of Citi™s net DTAs balance as of December 31, 2013, including the FTCs and applicable expiration dates of the FTCs, see Note 9 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.While Citi™s net total DTAs decreased year-over-year, the time remaining for 
utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect 
to the FTC component of the DTAs. Although realization is not assured, 

Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $52.8 billion 

at December 31, 2013 is more likely than not based upon expectations as 
to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and 

available tax planning strategies (as defined in ASC 740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. 

In general, Citi would need to generate approximately $98 billion of U.S. 
taxable income during the FTC carry-forward periods to prevent this most 
time-sensitive component of Citi™s DTAs from expiring. Citi™s net DTAs will 

decline primarily as additional domestic GAAP taxable income is generated.Citi has concluded that two components of positive evidence support the full realization of its DTAs. First, Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. taxable income 

in the carry-forward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax planning strategies. 
Citi™s forecasted taxable income, which will continue to be subject to overall 

market and global economic conditions, incorporates geographic business 
forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those forecasts (e.g., U.S. 
tax exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. tax reporting in 
subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. taxable earnings.Second, Citi has sufficient tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented, if necessary, to prevent a carry-forward 

from expiring. These strategies include: repatriating low taxed foreign source 
earnings for which an assertion that the earnings have been indefinitely 
reinvested has not been made; accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or 
deferring U.S. tax deductions out of, the latter years of the carry-forward period (e.g., selling appreciated intangible assets, electing straight-line 
depreciation); accelerating deductible temporary differences outside the 
U.S.; and selling certain assets that produce tax-exempt income, while 
purchasing assets that produce fully taxable income. In addition, the sale 
or restructuring of certain businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable 
income within the relevant carry-forward periods.Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believes the U.S. federal and New York state and city net operating loss carry-forward period of 20 years 

provides enough time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing 

net operating loss carry-forwards and any net operating loss that would be 
created by the reversal of the future net deductions that have not yet been 
taken on a tax return.With respect to the FTCs component of the DTAs, the carry-forward period 
is 10 years. Citi believes that it will generate sufficient U.S. taxable income 
within the 10-year carry-forward period to be able to fully utilize the FTCs, in 
addition to any FTCs produced in such period, which must be used prior to 
any carry-forward utilization.Litigation AccrualsSee the discussion in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
information regarding Citi™s policies on establishing accruals for litigation 
and regulatory contingencies.Accounting Changes and Future Application of 
Accounting StandardsSee Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of 

ﬁAccounting Changesﬂ and the ﬁFuture Application of Accounting Standards.ﬂ141DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURESCiti™s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within 
the time periods specified in the SEC™s rules and forms, including without 
limitation that information required to be disclosed by Citi in its SEC filings 
is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) as appropriate to 
allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Citi™s Disclosure Committee assists the CEO and CFO in their 
responsibilities to design, establish, maintain and evaluate the effectiveness 
of Citi™s disclosure controls and procedures. The Disclosure Committee 

is responsible for, among other things, the oversight, maintenance and 

implementation of the disclosure controls and procedures, subject to the 
supervision and oversight of the CEO and CFO.Citi™s management, with the participation of its CEO and CFO, has 
evaluated the effectiveness of Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures 

(as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as 
of December 31, 2013 and, based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO have 
concluded that at that date Citigroup™s disclosure controls and procedures 

were effective.142Citi™s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Citi™s internal control over 
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles. Citi™s internal control over financial 
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of Citi™s assets; (ii) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that Citi™s receipts and expenditures are made only in 
accordance with authorizations of Citi™s management and directors; and 
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Citi™s assets that could have 
a material effect on its financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In addition, given Citi™s large size, complex operations and global footprint, 

lapses or deficiencies in internal controls may occur from time to time.Citi management assessed the effectiveness of Citigroup™s internal control 
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 based on the criteria 
set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 

Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992). Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 
2013, Citi™s internal control over financial reporting was effective. In 

addition, there were no changes in Citi™s internal control over financial 

reporting during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2013 that materially 
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Citi™s internal control 

over financial reporting.The effectiveness of Citi™s internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2013 has been audited by KPMG LLP, Citi™s independent 

registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report below, which 

expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of Citi™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013.MANAGEMENT™S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL 
REPORTING143FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSCertain statements in this Form 10-K, including but not limited to statements included within the Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations, are ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ 
within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. In addition, Citigroup also may make forward-looking statements in its 
other documents filed or furnished with the SEC, and its management may 
make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives 
of the media and others.Generally, forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but 
instead represent Citigroup™s and its management™s beliefs regarding future 

events. Such statements may be identified by words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, may increase, may fluctuate, and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as will, should, would and could.Such statements are based on management™s current expectations and are 
subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Actual results 
and capital and other financial conditions may differ materially from those 
included in these statements due to a variety of factors, including without 
limitation the precautionary statements included throughout this Form 10-K 
and the risks and uncertainties listed and described under ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ 
above and summarized below: regulatory changes and uncertainties faced by Citi in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions in which it operates and the potential impact 
these changes and uncertainties could have on Citi™s business planning, 
compliance risks and costs and overall results of operations; continued uncertainty arising from numerous aspects of the regulatory 
capital requirements applicable to Citi, including Citi™s continued 
implementation of the final U.S. Basel III rules and the ongoing 
regulatory review of Citi™s risk models, and the potential impact these 
uncertainties could have on Citi™s ability to meet its capital requirements 
as it projects or as required; the potential impact of U.S. and international derivatives regulation on 
Citi™s competitiveness, compliance costs and regulatory and reputational 
risks and results of operations; ongoing implementation of proprietary trading restrictions under the 
ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ and similar international proposals and the potential 
impact of these reforms on Citi™s global market-making businesses, results 
of operations and compliance risks and costs; the potential impact to Citi™s businesses and capital and funding 
structure as a result of regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in 
non-U.S. jurisdictions to facilitate the future orderly resolution of large 
financial institutions; additional regulations with respect to securitizations and the potential 
impact to Citi and its businesses; continued uncertainty relating to the sustainability and pace of economic 
recovery and growth in the U.S. and globally and the potential impact 
fiscal and monetary actions taken by U.S. and non-U.S. authorities may 
have on economic recovery and growth, global trading markets, and the 
emerging markets, as well as Citi™s businesses and results of operations; any significant global economic downturn or disruption, including a 
significant decline in global trade volumes, on Citi™s businesses, results 
of operations and financial condition, particularly as compared to 
Citi™s competitors; uncertainty arising from the level of U.S. government debt or a potential 
U.S. government default or downgrade of the U.S. government credit 
rating on Citi™s businesses, results of operations, capital, funding 
and liquidity; risks arising from Citi™s extensive operations outside of the U.S., 
including in the emerging markets, including foreign exchange controls, 
limitations on foreign investments, sociopolitical instability, fraud, 
nationalization, closure of branches or subsidiaries and confiscation of 
assets, as well as increased compliance and regulatory risks and costs; ongoing economic and fiscal issues in the Eurozone and the potential 
outcomes that could occur, including the exit of one or more countries 
from the European Monetary Union and any resulting redenomination/
revaluation, and the potential impact, directly or indirectly, on Citi™s 
businesses, results of operations or financial condition; uncertainty regarding the future quantitative liquidity requirements 
applicable to Citi and the potential impact these requirements could have 
on Citi™s liquidity ratios, planning, management and funding; potential impacts on Citi™s liquidity and/or costs of funding as a result 
of external factors, such as market disruptions, governmental fiscal and 
monetary policies and changes in Citi™s credit spreads; reductions in Citi™s or its more significant subsidiaries™ credit ratings and 
the potential impact on Citi™s funding and liquidity, as well as the results 
of operations for certain of its businesses; the potential impact on Citi™s businesses, business practices, reputation, 
financial condition or results of operations from the extensive legal and 
regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries to which Citi is 
subject, including those related to Citi™s U.S. mortgage-related activities, 
Citi™s contribution to, or trading in products linked to, various rates or 
benchmarks, and its anti-money laundering programs;144 the potential impact to Citi™s delinquency rates, loan loss reserves and net credit losses as Citi™s revolving home equity lines of credit begin to ﬁresetﬂ; results from the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) 
process and evolving supervisory stress tests and the potential impacts 
on Citi™s ability to return capital to shareholders and market perceptions 
of Citi; Citi™s ability to successfully execute on and achieve its ongoing execution 
priorities and the potential impact its inability to do so could have on the 
achievement of its 2015 financial targets; Citi™s ability to utilize its deferred tax assets (DTAs), including the foreign 
tax credit components of its DTAs, and thus utilize the regulatory capital 
supporting its DTAs for more productive purposes; the potential impact on the value of Citi™s DTAs if corporate tax rates in 
the U.S. or certain state or foreign jurisdictions decline, or if other changes 

are made to the U.S. tax system, such as changes to the tax treatment of 
foreign business income; the possibility that Citi™s interpretation or application of the extensive 
tax laws to which it is subject, such as with respect to withholding tax 
obligations and stamp and other transactional taxes, could differ from 
that of the relevant governmental taxing authorities; Citi™s failure to maintain its contractual relationships with various third-
party retailers and merchants within its U.S. credit card businesses in NA RCB, and the potential impact any such failure could have on the results 
of operations or financial condition of those businesses; the potential impact to Citi from continually evolving cybersecurity 
and other technological risks and attacks, including additional costs, 
reputational damage, regulatory penalties and financial losses; the potential impact on Citi™s performance, including its competitive 
position and ability to execute its strategy, if Citi is unable to hire or retain 
qualified employees; incorrect assumptions or estimates in Citi™s financial statements, and 
the potential impact of regulatory changes to financial accounting and 
reporting standards on how Citi records and reports its financial condition 
and results of operations; changes in the administration of or method for determining LIBOR on 
the value of any LIBOR-linked securities and other financial obligations 
held or issued by Citi; andthe effectiveness of Citi™s risk management and mitigation processes and 
strategies, including the effectiveness of its risk models.Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Citigroup speak only as to the date they are made, and Citi does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events 
that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made.145The Board of Directors and Stockholders Citigroup Inc.:We have audited Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries™ (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 
2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated 
Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company™s management is 
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting 
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting, included in the accompanying management™s annual report on 
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on the Company™s internal control over financial reporting based on 
our audit.We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an 
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered 
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a 

reasonable basis for our opinion.A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company™s 

internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance 
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company™s assets that 

could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of 
any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that 
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.In our opinion, Citigroup maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based 
on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework 
(1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway
 Commission.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated 
balance sheets of Citigroup as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the 
related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes 
in stockholders™ equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-
year period ended December 31, 2013, and our report dated March 3, 2014 
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.New York, New York 
March 3, 2014REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠ
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING146The Board of Directors and Stockholders Citigroup Inc.:We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Citigroup Inc. and subsidiaries (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁCitigroupﬂ) as of 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of 
income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders™ equity and cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 
2013. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company™s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards 
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes 
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for 

our opinion.In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Citigroup as 

of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash 
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013, 
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Citigroup™s internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria 
established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 

(COSO), and our report dated March 3, 2014 expressed an unqualified 
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over 

financial reporting.New York, New York 
March 3, 2014REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMŠ
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS147
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES TABLE OF CONTENTS
CONSOLIDATED
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of IncomeŠ 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011
148
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeŠ
 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011
149
Consolidated Balance SheetŠDecember 31, 2013 and 2012
150
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders™ EquityŠ
 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011
152
Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsŠ 
For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011
153
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Note 1 Œ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
155
Note 2 Œ Discontinued Operations
170
Note 3 Œ Business Segments
172
Note 4 Œ Interest Revenue and Expense
173
Note 5 Œ Commissions and Fees
174
Note 6 Œ Principal Transactions
175
Note 7 Œ Incentive Plans
175
Note 8 Œ Retirement Benefits
181
Note 9 Œ Income Taxes
195
Note 10 Œ Earnings per Share
200
Note 11 Œ Federal Funds, Securities Borrowed, Loaned and  
Subject to Repurchase Agreements
201
Note 12 Œ Brokerage Receivables and Brokerage Payables
203
Note 13 Œ Trading Account Assets and Liabilities
203
Note 14 Œ Investments
204
Note 15 Œ Loans
215
Note 16 Œ Allowance for Credit Losses
227
Note 17 Œ Goodwill and Intangible Assets
229
Note 18 Œ Debt
232
Note 19 Œ Regulatory Capital and Citigroup, Inc. Parent  
Company Information
234
Note 20 Œ Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
237
Note 21 Œ Preferred Stock
239
Note 22 Œ Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities
240
Note 23 Œ Derivatives Activities
258
Note 24 Œ Concentrations of Credit Risk
270
Note 25 Œ Fair Value Measurement
271
Note 26 Œ Fair Value Elections
292
Note 27 Œ Pledged Assets, Collateral, Guarantees and Commitments
296
Note 28 Œ Contingencies
302
Note 29 Œ Subsequent Event
312
Note 30 Œ Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
312
148CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOMECitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,In millions of dollars, except per share amounts
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Revenues$62,97016,177Net interest revenue$46,793$13,1137,121
4,089
748•ˆ‘ˇ˘
(633)––
98$(535)––$2,2802,757Total non-interest revenues
$29,573Total revenues, net of interest expense
$76,366Provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims

$7,604830
80–Total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and claims
$8,514Operating expenses

$23,9673,165‰
6,1361,888
13,199Total operating expenses
(3)$48,355Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes$19,497
5,867Income from continuing operations$13,630Discontinued operations
$(242)––268—˛–
(244)–˛˜Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$270–Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$13,900227Citigroup™s net income
$13,673Basic earnings per share(4)(5)
$4.27
0.09—˚‚˚˜–˚‚˚˜Net income$4.35Weighted average common shares outstanding
3,035.8Diluted earnings per share(4)(5)
$4.26
0.09—˚‚˚˜–˚‚˚˜Net income$4.35Adjusted weighted average common shares outstanding(4)3,041.6—˛–

—˜–Other revenue‰‚“‚Ł‚






149CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOMECitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$13,900Citigroup™s other comprehensive income (loss)

$(2,321)
1,048–
1,281––
(2,245)–Citigroup™s total other comprehensive income (loss)
$(2,237)–
$227Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
$(27)–
10–Total other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
$(17)–‰
210Citigroup™s comprehensive income
$11,436—˛–’™
Other comprehensive income.
150CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETCitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Assets
$29,885169,005

’
257,037
25,674‰

’–
285,928

’

’
308,980

’
393,831

’
271,641
$665,472
(19,648)–‰
$645,82425,009
5,056
2,718
’
125,266
ŠTotal assets
$1,880,382The following table presents certain assets of consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The assets in the table below include only those assets that can be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs on the following page and are in excess of those obligations. Additionally, the assets in the table below include third-party assets of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate 

in consolidation.December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Assets of consolidated VIEs that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs$360‰
97710,416

’
63,493

’
31,919
$95,412
(3,502)–‰
$91,9101,233Total assets of consolidated VIEs that can only be used to settle obligations of consolidated VIEs
$104,896
151CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETCitigroup Inc. and Subsidiaries
(Continued)December 31,In millions of dollars, except shares and per share amounts2013˜˚˛˜Liabilities
$128,399

’
284,164
69,406

’
486,304‰
$968,273

’
203,512
53,707‰
108,762
’
58,944
’
221,116

’
59,935
ŠœTotal liabilities
$1,674,249Stockholders™ equity
269,520 as ofDecember 31, 2013

$6,738
3,062,098,976 as ofDecember 31, 2013

31
107,193111,168‰
December 31, 2013Š32,856,062 

(1,658)–
(19,133)–Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$204,3391,794Total equity
$206,133Total liabilities and equity
$1,880,382The following table presents certain liabilities of consolidated VIEs, which are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet above. The liabilities in the table below include third-party liabilities of consolidated VIEs only and exclude intercompany balances that eliminate in consolidation. The liabilities also exclude amounts where creditors or beneficial interest holders have recourse to the general credit of Citigroup.December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have  recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$21,793
’
34,743
999Total liabilities of consolidated VIEs for which creditors or beneficial interest holders do not have 
 recourse to the general credit of Citigroup$57,535
152CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS™ EQUITYCitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years ended December 31,
AmountsSharesIn millions of dollars, except shares in thousands2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Preferred stock at aggregate liquidation value

$2,562102˛˜˛˜4,270œ171œ(94)œœ(3)œœ
$6,738270˛˚˜˛˜Common stock and additional paid-in capital

$106,4213,043,15387818,930(78)œœŠœœ‰‰
ŠœœŠœŠœŠœ•ˆ‘ˇ˘3–˛16˜˜
$107,2243,062,099Retained earnings
$97,809
Š–œ
$97,809
13,673(120)—˛˜˚––(194)––•ˆ‘ˇ˘Š˛˛
$111,168Treasury stock, at cost

$(847)––(14,269)––26(1,629)–‰
(837)–—˛–(16,958)––
$(1,658)––(32,856)––Citigroup™s accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

$(16,896)––
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
(2,237)–
$(19,133)––Total Citigroup common stockholders™ equity
$197,6013,029,243Total Citigroup stockholders™ equity
$204,339Noncontrolling interest
$1,948
6‰
’
(2)œœ‰
(118)–
227(63)––Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
(17)–•ˆ‘ˇ˘(187)––Net change in noncontrolling interests$(154)–Balance, end of period
$1,794Total equity
$206,133—˛–
Retained earnings
 Financial ServicesŠInsurance (Topic 944): Accounting for Costs Associated with 
Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts‚
—˜–





153CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSCitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
Years
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Cash flows from operating activities of continuing operationsNet income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$13,900Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests227Citigroup™s net income
$13,673Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes
(90)––Gain (loss) on sale, net of taxes
360—˛–Income from continuing operationsŠexcluding noncontrolling interests
$13,403Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of continuing operations

194(54)–
3,3032,380––
7,684(748)––53535,001–
(6,787)––
4,274–
(7,724)
(6,490)
4,321–13,332–
(7,880)––•ˆ‘ˇ˘
2,666Total adjustments
$44,007Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations
$57,410Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$(66,871)(27,892)––
9,123(220,823)––131,100
84,831
(3,490)––
716Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
$(93,306)–Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(314)––4,270œ(94)œœ
Šœ‰
(837)–—˛–
(452)––54,405
(63,994)––37,713199––
154CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWSCitigroup
 Inc. and Subsidiaries
(Continued)Years
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations
$30,896––
$(1,558)–Discontinued operationsNet cash provided by discontinued operations
$(10)Change in cash and due from banks$(6,568)Cash and due from banks at beginning of year36,453Cash and due from banks at end of year$29,885Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations

$4,495
$14,383Non-cash investing activities
$6,718œœ‰
$17,300‰
325‰
ŠœNon-cash financing activities
$6,718œœ
155NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIESPrinciples of ConsolidationThe Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Citigroup and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP). The Company consolidates subsidiaries in 
which it holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights or 
where it exercises control. Entities where the Company holds 20% to 50% of 
the voting rights and/or has the ability to exercise significant influence, other 
than investments of designated venture capital subsidiaries or investments 
accounted for at fair value under the fair value option, are accounted for 
under the equity method, and the pro rata share of their income (loss) is 
included in Other revenue. Income from investments in less than 20% 
owned companies is recognized when dividends are received. As discussed in 
more detail in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citigroup 
consolidates entities deemed to be variable interest entities when Citigroup is 
determined to be the primary beneficiary. Gains and losses on the disposition 
of branches, subsidiaries, affiliates, buildings, and other investments are 
included in Other revenue.Throughout these Notes, ﬁCitigroup,ﬂ ﬁCitiﬂ and the ﬁCompanyﬂ refer to Citigroup Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods™ financial statements and notes to conform to the current period™s presentation.
Citibank, N.A.Citibank, N.A. is a commercial bank and wholly owned subsidiary of 
Citigroup Inc. Citibank™s principal offerings include: Consumer finance, 
mortgage lending, and retail banking products and services; investment 
banking, commercial banking, cash management, trade finance 
and e-commerce products and services; and private banking products 
and services.Variable Interest EntitiesAn entity is referred to as a variable interest entity (VIE) if it meets the 
criteria outlined in ASC 810, Consolidation (formerly Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards(SFAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB (Financial 
Accounting Standards Board) Interpretation No. 46(R)) (SFAS 167), which are: (i) the entity has equity that is insufficient to permit the entity 
to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support 
from other parties; or (ii) the entity has equity investors that cannot make 
significant decisions about the entity™s operations or that do not absorb their 
proportionate share of the entity™s expected losses or expected returns.The Company consolidates a VIE when it has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic success 

and a right to receive benefits or the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could be potentially significant to the VIE (that is, it is the 
primary beneficiary).Along with the VIEs that are consolidated in accordance with these guidelines, the Company has variable interests in other VIEs that are 
not consolidated because the Company is not the primary beneficiary. 

These include multi-seller finance companies, certain collateralized debt 
obligations (CDOs), many structured finance transactions, and various 
investment funds.However, these VIEs and all other unconsolidated VIEs are monitored by 
the Company to determine if any events have occurred that could cause its 
primary beneficiary status to change. These events include:additional purchases or sales of variable interests by Citigroup or an unrelated third party, which cause Citigroup™s overall variable interest 
ownership to change;changes in contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates 
expected losses and residual returns among the variable interest holders;changes in the party that has power to direct the activities of a VIE that 
most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; andproviding support to an entity that results in an implicit variable interest.All other entities not deemed to be VIEs with which the Company has involvement are evaluated for consolidation under other subtopics of ASC 810 (formerly Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, SFAS No. 94, 
Consolidation of All Majority-
Owned Subsidiaries, and EITF Issue No. 04-5, Determining Whether 
a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a 

Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have 
Certain Rights).Foreign Currency TranslationAssets and liabilities of Citi™s foreign operations are translated from their 
respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars using period-end spot 
foreign-exchange rates. The effects of those translation adjustments are 
reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component 
of stockholders™ equity, along with related hedge and tax effects, until 
realized upon sale or substantial liquidation of the foreign operation. 
Revenues and expenses of Citi™s foreign operations are translated monthly 
from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars at amounts that 
approximate weighted average exchange rates.For transactions whose terms are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, including transactions denominated in the local 

currencies of foreign operations with the U.S. dollar as their functional 
currency, the effects of changes in exchange rates are primarily included in 

Principal transactions, along with the related hedge effects. Instruments 156used to hedge foreign currency exposures include foreign currency forward, option and swap contracts and designated issues of non-U.S. dollar debt. 
Foreign operations in countries with highly inflationary economies designate 
the U.S. dollar as their functional currency, with the effects of changes in 

exchange rates primarily included in Other revenue.Investment SecuritiesInvestments include fixed income and equity securities. Fixed income 
instruments include bonds, notes and redeemable preferred stocks, as well as 
certain loan-backed and structured securities that are subject to prepayment 
risk. Equity securities include common and nonredeemable preferred stock.Investment securities are classified and accounted for as follows:Fixed income securities classified as ﬁheld-to-maturityﬂ represent 
securities that the Company has both the ability and the intent to hold 
until maturity and are carried at amortized cost. Interest income on such 
securities is included in Interest revenue.Fixed income securities and marketable equity securities classified 
as ﬁavailable-for-saleﬂ are carried at fair value with changes in fair 
value reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), 
a component of Stockholders™ equity, net of applicable income taxes 
and hedges. As described in more detail in Note 14 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, declines in fair value that are determined to be 
other-than-temporary are recorded in earnings immediately. Realized 
gains and losses on sales are included in income primarily on a specific 
identification cost basis. Interest and dividend income on such securities 
is included in Interest revenue.Venture capital investments held by Citigroup™s private equity subsidiaries 
that are considered investment companies are carried at fair value with 
changes in fair value reported in Other revenue. These subsidiaries 
include entities registered as Small Business Investment Companies and 
engage exclusively in venture capital activities.Certain investments in non-marketable equity securities and certain 
investments that would otherwise have been accounted for using the 
equity method are carried at fair value, since the Company has elected to 
apply fair value accounting. Changes in fair value of such investments are 
recorded in earnings.Certain non-marketable equity securities are carried at cost and 
periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment, as described 
in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For investments in fixed income securities classified as held-to-maturity or available-for-sale, accrual of interest income is suspended for investments 
that are in default or on which it is likely that future interest payments will 
not be made as scheduled. The Company uses a number of valuation techniques for investments carried at fair value, which are described in Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are 
included in earnings.Trading Account Assets and LiabilitiesTrading account assets include debt and marketable equity securities, 
derivatives in a receivable position, residual interests in securitizations and 
physical commodities inventory. In addition, as described in Note 26 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain assets that Citigroup has 
elected to carry at fair value under the fair value option, such as loans and 
purchased guarantees, are also included in Trading account assets.Trading account liabilities 
include securities sold, not yet purchased (short positions), and derivatives in a net payable position, as well as certain 
liabilities that Citigroup has elected to carry at fair value (as described in 
Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).Other than physical commodities inventory, all trading account assets 
and liabilities are carried at fair value. Revenues generated from trading 
assets and trading liabilities are generally reported in Principal transactions and include realized gains and losses as well as unrealized gains and losses 
resulting from changes in the fair value of such instruments. Interest income 
on trading assets is recorded in Interest revenue reduced by interest expense 
on trading liabilities.Physical commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or market with related losses reported in Principal transactions. Realized gains and losses on sales of commodities inventory are included in Principal transactions. Investments in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, 
silver, platinum and palladium) are accounted for as hybrid instruments 

containing a debt host contract and an embedded non-financial derivative 
instrument indexed to the price of the relevant precious metal. The embedded 
derivative instrument is separated from the debt host contract and accounted 
for at fair value. The debt host contract is accounted for at fair value 
under the fair value option, as described in Note 26 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Derivatives used for trading purposes include interest rate, currency, 
equity, credit, and commodity swap agreements, options, caps and floors, 

warrants, and financial and commodity futures and forward contracts. 
Derivative asset and liability positions are presented net by counterparty on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet when a valid master netting agreement exists 
and the other conditions set out in ASC 210-20, Balance Sheet-Offsetting, are met. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The Company uses a number of techniques to determine the fair value of trading assets and liabilities, which are described in Note 25 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.157Securities Borrowed and Securities LoanedSecurities borrowing and lending transactions generally do not constitute a sale of the underlying securities for accounting purposes, and are treated as 
collateralized financing transactions. Such transactions are recorded at the 
amount of proceeds advanced or received plus accrued interest. As described 
in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has 
elected to apply fair value accounting to a number of securities borrowing 
and lending transactions. Fees paid or received for all securities lending and 
borrowing transactions are recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue 
at the contractually specified rate.The Company monitors the fair value of securities borrowed or loaned on a daily basis and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain 
contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of securities lending and borrowing transactions.Repurchase and Resale AgreementsSecurities sold under agreements to repurchase (repos) and securities 
purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos) generally do not 
constitute a sale for accounting purposes of the underlying securities and 
are treated as collateralized financing transactions. As described in Note 26 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has elected to apply 
fair value accounting to a majority of such transactions, with changes in fair 
value reported in earnings. Any transactions for which fair value accounting 
has not been elected are recorded at the amount of cash advanced or received 
plus accrued interest. Irrespective of whether the Company has elected fair 
value accounting, interest paid or received on all repo and reverse repo 
transactions is recorded in Interest expense or Interest revenue at the 
contractually specified rate.Where the conditions of ASC 210-20-45-11, Balance Sheet-Offsetting: Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements, are met, repos and 
reverse repos are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.The Company™s policy is to take possession of securities purchased under 
reverse repurchase agreements. The Company monitors the fair value of 
securities subject to repurchase or resale on a daily basis and obtains or posts 
additional collateral in order to maintain contractual margin protection.As described in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company uses a discounted cash flow technique to determine the fair value 
of repo and reverse repo transactions.LoansLoans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any 
unearned income and unamortized deferred fees and costs except that 
credit card receivable balances also include accrued interest and fees. Loan 
origination fees and certain direct origination costs are generally deferred 
and recognized as adjustments to income over the lives of the related loans.As described in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Citi has elected fair value accounting for certain loans. Such loans are carried at fair 
value with changes in fair value reported in earnings. Interest income on 
such loans is recorded in Interest revenue at the contractually specified rate.Loans for which the fair value option has not been elected are classified upon origination or acquisition as either held-for-investment or held-for-sale. 

This classification is based on management™s initial intent and ability with 

regard to those loans.Loans that are held-for-investment are classified as 
Loans, net of unearned income on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the related cash 
flows are included within the cash flows from the investing activities category 
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Change in loans. However, when the initial intent for holding a loan has changed from held-

for-investment to held-for-sale, the loan is reclassified to held-for-sale, but 

the related cash flows continue to be reported in cash flows from investing 
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on the line Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans.158Consumer loansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the Global Consumer Banking businesses and Citi Holdings.Non-accrual and re-aging policiesAs a general rule, interest accrual ceases for installment and real estate (both 
open- and closed-end) loans when payments are 90 days contractually past 
due. For credit cards and unsecured revolving loans, however, Citi generally 
accrues interest until payments are 180 days past due. As a result of OCC 
guidance issued in the first quarter of 2012, home equity loans in regulated 
bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related residential first 
mortgage is 90 days or more past due. As a result of OCC guidance issued 
in the third quarter of 2012, mortgage loans in regulated bank entities 
discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than FHA-insured loans, 
are classified as non-accrual. Commercial market loans are placed on a cash 
(non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and 
a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 90 
days past due.Loans that have been modified to grant a short-term or long-term concession to a borrower who is in financial difficulty may not be accruing 
interest at the time of the modification. The policy for returning such 
modified loans to accrual status varies by product and/or region. In most 
cases, a minimum number of payments (ranging from one to six) are 
required, while in other cases the loan is never returned to accrual status. 
For regulated bank entities, such modified loans are returned to accrual 
status if a credit evaluation at the time of, or subsequent to, the modification 
indicates the borrower™s ability to meet the restructured terms, and the 

borrower is current and has demonstrated a reasonable period of sustained 
payment performance (minimum six months of consecutive payments).For U.S. Consumer loans, generally one of the conditions to qualify for modification is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) must be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended Consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended Consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) loans are modified under those respective agencies™ 

guidelines and payments are not always required in order to re-age a 
modified loan to current. Charge-off policies
Citi™s charge-off policies follow the general guidelines below:Unsecured installment loans are charged off at 120 days contractually past due.Unsecured revolving loans and credit card loans are charged off at 
180 days contractually past due.Loans secured with non-real estate collateral are written down to 
the estimated value of the collateral, less costs to sell, at 120 days 
contractually past due.Real estate-secured loans are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 180 days contractually past due.Real estate-secured loans are charged off no later than 180 days 
contractually past due if a decision has been made not to foreclose on 
the loans. Non-bank real estate-secured loans are charged off at the earlier of 
180 days contractually past due if there have been no payments within the 
last six months, or 360 days contractually past due, if a decision has been 
made not to foreclose on the loans. Non-bank loans secured by real estate are written down to the estimated 
value of the property, less costs to sell, at the earlier of the receipt of 
title, the initiation of foreclosure (a process that must commence when 
payments are 120 days contractually past due), when the loan is 180 days 
contractually past due if there have been no payments within the past six 
months or 360 days contractually past due. Non-bank unsecured personal loans are charged off at the earlier of 
180 days contractually past due if there have been no payments within the 
last six months, or 360 days contractually past due.Unsecured loans in bankruptcy are charged off within 60 days of 
notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or in accordance with Citi™s 
charge-off policy, whichever occurs earlier.As a result of OCC guidance issued in the third quarter of 2012, real estate-
secured loans that were discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other 
than FHA-insured loans, are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell. Other real estate-secured loans in bankruptcy 
are written down to the estimated value of the property, less costs to sell, at 
the later of 60 days after notification or 60 days contractually past due.Non-bank loans secured by real estate that are discharged through 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy are written down to the estimated value of the 
property, less costs to sell, at 60 days contractually past due. Non-bank unsecured personal loans in bankruptcy are charged off when 
they are 30 days contractually past due.Commercial market loans are written down to the extent that principal is 
judged to be uncollectable.159Corporate loansCorporate loans represent loans and leases managed by ICG or Citi Holdings. 
Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a cash (non-
accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a 
forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 90 
days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized and in the process 
of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired Corporate loans and leases 
is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, and interest is 
thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually received in cash. 
When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of principal, all 
cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded investment in 
the loan.Impaired Corporate loans and leases are written down to the extent that principal is deemed to be uncollectable. Impaired collateral-dependent 
loans and leases, where repayment is expected to be provided solely by 
the sale of the underlying collateral and there are no other available and 
reliable sources of repayment, are written down to the lower of cost or 
collateral value. Cash-basis loans are returned to an accrual status when 
all contractual principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of 
repayment and there is a sustained period of repayment performance in 
accordance with the contractual terms.Loans Held-for-SaleCorporate and Consumer loans that have been identified for sale are 
classified as loans held-for-sale and included in Other assets. The practice of Citi™s U.S. prime mortgage business has been to sell substantially all of 
its conforming loans. As such, U.S. prime mortgage conforming loans are 
classified as held-for-sale and the fair value option is elected at origination, 
with changes in fair value recorded in Other revenue. With the exception 
of these loans for which the fair value option has been elected, held-for-
sale loans are accounted for at the lower of cost or market value, with any 
write-downs or subsequent recoveries charged to Other revenue. The related 
cash flows are classified in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the 
cash flows from operating activities category on the line Change in loans held-for-sale.Allowance for Loan LossesAllowance for loan losses represents management™s best estimate of probable 
losses inherent in the portfolio, including probable losses related to large 
individually evaluated impaired loans and troubled debt restructurings. 
Attribution of the allowance is made for analytical purposes only, and 
the entire allowance is available to absorb probable loan losses inherent 
in the overall portfolio. Additions to the allowance are made through the 
Provision for loan losses. Loan losses are deducted from the allowance and 
subsequent recoveries are added. Assets received in exchange for loan claims 
in a restructuring are initially recorded at fair value, with any gain or loss 
reflected as a recovery or charge-off to the allowance.Corporate loans
In the Corporate portfolios, the Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-
specific component and a statistically based component. The asset-specific 
component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35, Receivables-Subsequent 
Measurement (formerly SFAS 114) on an individual basis for larger-
balance, non-homogeneous loans, which are considered impaired. An asset-
specific allowance is established when the discounted cash flows, collateral 
value (less disposal costs), or observable market price of the impaired loan is 
lower than its carrying value. This allowance considers the borrower™s overall 
financial condition, resources, and payment record, the prospects for support 
from any financially responsible guarantors (discussed further below) 
and, if appropriate, the realizable value of any collateral. The asset-specific 
component of the allowance for smaller balance impaired loans is calculated 
on a pool basis considering historical loss experience.The allowance for the remainder of the loan portfolio is determined under ASC 450, Contingencies (formerly SFAS 5) using a statistical methodology, 

supplemented by management judgment. The statistical analysis considers 
the portfolio™s size, remaining tenor, and credit quality as measured by 

internal risk ratings assigned to individual credit facilities, which reflect probability of default and loss given default. The statistical analysis considers historical default rates and historical loss severity in the event of default, 
including historical average levels and historical variability. The result is an 

estimated range for inherent losses. The best estimate within the range is 
then determined by management™s quantitative and qualitative assessment 

of current conditions, including general economic conditions, specific 
industry and geographic trends, and internal factors including portfolio 
concentrations, trends in internal credit quality indicators, and current and 
past underwriting standards.For both the asset-specific and the statistically based components of the Allowance for loan losses, management may incorporate guarantor support. 
The financial wherewithal of the guarantor is evaluated, as applicable, 
based on net worth, cash flow statements and personal or company financial 
statements which are updated and reviewed at least annually. Citi seeks 

performance on guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business. 
Seeking performance entails obtaining satisfactory cooperation from the 
guarantor or borrower in the specific situation. This regular cooperation 
is indicative of pursuit and successful enforcement of the guarantee; the 
exposure is reduced without the expense and burden of pursuing a legal 
remedy. A guarantor™s reputation and willingness to work with Citigroup 

is evaluated based on the historical experience with the guarantor and 
the knowledge of the marketplace. In the rare event that the guarantor 
is unwilling or unable to perform or facilitate borrower cooperation, Citi 
pursues a legal remedy; however, enforcing a guarantee via legal action 
against the guarantor is not the primary means of resolving a troubled loan situation and rarely occurs. If Citi does not pursue a legal remedy, 

it is because Citi does not believe that the guarantor has the financial 
wherewithal to perform regardless of legal action or because there are 160legal limitations on simultaneously pursuing guarantors and foreclosure. A guarantor™s reputation does not impact Citi™s decision or ability to seek 

performance under the guarantee.In cases where a guarantee is a factor in the assessment of loan losses, it is included via adjustment to the loan™s internal risk rating, which in turn 

is the basis for the adjustment to the statistically based component of the 
Allowance for loan losses. To date, it is only in rare circumstances that an 

impaired commercial loan or commercial real estate loan is carried at a 
value in excess of the appraised value due to a guarantee.When Citi™s monitoring of the loan indicates that the guarantor™s 
wherewithal to pay is uncertain or has deteriorated, there is either no 
change in the risk rating, because the guarantor™s credit support was never 

initially factored in, or the risk rating is adjusted to reflect that uncertainty 
or deterioration. Accordingly, a guarantor™s ultimate failure to perform or 

a lack of legal enforcement of the guarantee does not materially impact 
the allowance for loan losses, as there is typically no further significant 
adjustment of the loan™s risk rating at that time. Where Citi is not seeking 

performance under the guarantee contract, it provides for loans losses as if 
the loans were non-performing and not guaranteed.Consumer loansFor Consumer loans, each portfolio of non-modified smaller-balance, 
homogeneous loans is independently evaluated by product type (e.g., 
residential mortgage, credit card, etc.) for impairment in accordance 
with ASC 450-20. The allowance for loan losses attributed to these loans 
is established via a process that estimates the probable losses inherent in 
the specific portfolio. This process includes migration analysis, in which 
historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current 
aging of the portfolio, together with analyses that reflect current and 
anticipated economic conditions, including changes in housing prices and 
unemployment trends. Citi™s allowance for loan losses under ASC 450-20 
only considers contractual principal amounts due, except for credit card 
loans where estimated loss amounts related to accrued interest receivable are 
also included.Management also considers overall portfolio indicators, including historical credit losses, delinquent, non-performing, and classified loans, 
trends in volumes and terms of loans, an evaluation of overall credit quality, 

the credit process, including lending policies and procedures, and economic, 
geographical, product and other environmental factors.Separate valuation allowances are determined for impaired smaller-
balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled 
debt restructuring (TDR). Long-term modification programs as well as 
short-term (less than 12 months) modifications originated beginning 
January 1, 2011 that provide concessions (such as interest rate reductions) 
to borrowers in financial difficulty are reported as TDRs. In addition, loans 
included in the U.S. Treasury™s Home Affordable Modification Program 

(HAMP) trial period at December 31, 2011 are reported as TDRs. The allowance for loan losses for TDRs is determined in accordance with ASC 
310-10-35 considering all available evidence, including, as appropriate, 
the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan™s 

original contractual effective rate, the secondary market value of the loan 
and the fair value of collateral less disposal costs. These expected cash flows 
incorporate modification program default rate assumptions. The original 
contractual effective rate for credit card loans is the pre-modification rate, 
which may include interest rate increases under the original contractual 
agreement with the borrower.
Where short-term concessions have been granted prior to January 1, 2011, the allowance for loan losses is materially consistent with the requirements of 
ASC 310-10-35.Valuation allowances for commercial market loans, which are classifiably 
managed Consumer loans, are determined in the same manner as for 
Corporate loans and are described in more detail in the following section. 
Generally, an asset-specific component is calculated under ASC 310-10-35 

on an individual basis for larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans that are 

considered impaired and the allowance for the remainder of the classifiably 
managed Consumer loan portfolio is calculated under ASC 450 using a 
statistical methodology, supplemented by management adjustment.
Reserve Estimates and PoliciesManagement provides reserves for an estimate of probable losses inherent 
in the funded loan portfolio on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the 
form of an allowance for loan losses. These reserves are established in 
accordance with Citigroup™s credit reserve policies, as approved by the 
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Citi™s Chief Risk Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer review the adequacy of the credit loss reserves each 
quarter with representatives from the risk management and finance staffs 
for each applicable business area. Applicable business areas include those 
having classifiably managed portfolios, where internal credit-risk ratings 
are assigned (primarily Institutional Clients Group and Global Consumer 
Banking) or modified Consumer loans, where concessions were granted due 
to the borrowers™ financial difficulties.The above-mentioned representatives for these business areas present recommended reserve balances for their funded and unfunded lending 
portfolios along with supporting quantitative and qualitative data 
discussed below:Estimated probable losses for non-performing, non-homogeneous exposures within a business line™s classifiably managed portfolio and 

impaired smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms have been 

modified due to the borrowers™ financial difficulties, where it was 
determined that a concession was granted to the borrower. Consideration may be given to the following, as appropriate, when determining this 
estimate: (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the 
loan™s original effective rate; (ii) the borrower™s overall financial condition, 

resources and payment record; and (iii) the prospects for support from 161financially responsible guarantors or the realizable value of any collateral. In the determination of the allowance for loan losses for TDRs, management 
considers a combination of historical re-default rates, the current economic 
environment and the nature of the modification program when forecasting 
expected cash flows. When impairment is measured based on the present 
value of expected future cash flows, the entire change in present value is 
recorded in the Provision for loan losses.Statistically calculated losses inherent in the classifiably managed portfolio for performing and de minimis non-performing exposures. The calculation is based on: (i) Citi™s internal system of credit-risk ratings, 

which are analogous to the risk ratings of the major rating agencies; and 
(ii) historical default and loss data, including rating agency information 
regarding default rates from 1983 to 2012 and internal data dating to the 
early 1970s on severity of losses in the event of default. Adjustments may 
be made to this data. Such adjustments include: (i) statistically calculated 
estimates to cover the historical fluctuation of the default rates over the credit 
cycle, the historical variability of loss severity among defaulted loans, and the 
degree to which there are large obligor concentrations in the global portfolio; 
and (ii) adjustments made for specific known items, such as current 
environmental factors and credit trends.In addition, representatives from each of the risk management and finance staffs that cover business areas with delinquency-managed 
portfolios containing smaller-balance homogeneous loans present their 

recommended reserve balances based on leading credit indicators, including 
loan delinquencies and changes in portfolio size as well as economic trends, 
including current and future housing prices, unemployment, length of time 
in foreclosure, costs to sell and GDP. This methodology is applied separately 

for each individual product within each geographic region in which these 
portfolios exist.This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The frequency of default, risk ratings, loss recovery rates, the size and 
diversity of individual large credits, and the ability of borrowers with foreign 
currency obligations to obtain the foreign currency necessary for orderly debt 
servicing, among other things, are all taken into account during this review. 

Changes in these estimates could have a direct impact on the credit costs in 
any period and could result in a change in the allowance.Allowance for Unfunded Lending CommitmentsA similar approach to the allowance for loan losses is used for calculating 
a reserve for the expected losses related to unfunded loan commitments 
and standby letters of credit. This reserve is classified on the balance 
sheet in Other liabilities. Changes to the allowance for unfunded 
lending commitments are recorded in the Provision for unfunded 
lending commitments.Mortgage Servicing RightsMortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are recognized as intangible assets 
when purchased or when the Company sells or securitizes loans acquired 
through purchase or origination and retains the right to service the loans. 
Mortgage servicing rights are accounted for at fair value, with changes in 
value recorded in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Additional information on the Company™s MSRs can be found in Note 22 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Citigroup Residential MortgagesŠRepresentations and 
WarrantiesIn connection with Citi™s sales of residential mortgage loans to the U.S. 
government-sponsored entities (GSEs) and private investors, as well as 
through private-label securitizations, Citi typically makes representations 
and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, such as the 
loan™s compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the buyer 
and the validity of the lien securing the loan. The specific representations 
and warranties made by Citi in any particular transaction depend on, 
among other things, the nature of the transaction and the requirements 
of the investor (e.g., whole loan sale to the GSEs versus loans sold through 
securitization transactions), as well as the credit quality of the loan (e.g., 
prime, Alt-A or subprime).These sales expose Citi to potential claims for alleged breaches of its representations and warranties. In the event of a breach of its representations 
and warranties, Citi could be required either to repurchase the mortgage 
loans with the identified defects (generally at unpaid principal balance plus 
accrued interest) or to indemnify (make-whole) the investors for their losses 
on these loans.Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for its potential repurchase or make-whole liability regarding residential mortgage representation and 
warranty claims. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, Citi considers 
private-label residential mortgage securitization representation and 
warranty claims as part of its litigation accrual analysis and not as part of its 
repurchase reserve. See Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for 
additional information on Citi™s potential private-label residential mortgage 

securitization exposure. Accordingly, Citi™s repurchase reserve has been 

recorded for purposes of its potential representation and warranty repurchase 
liability resulting from its whole loan sales to the GSEs and, to a lesser extent 
private investors, which are made through Citi™s Consumer business in 

CitiMortgage.The repurchase reserve is based on various assumptions which are primarily based on Citi™s historical repurchase activity with the GSEs. As of 

December 31, 2013, the most significant assumptions used to calculate the 
reserve levels are: (i) the probability of a claim based on correlation between 
loan characteristics and repurchase claims; (ii) claims appeal success rates; 
and (iii) estimated loss per repurchase or make-whole payment. In addition, 
as part of its repurchase reserve analysis, Citi considers reimbursements 
estimated to be received from third-party sellers, which generally are based 162on Citi™s analysis of its most recent collection trends and the financial 
viability of the third-party sellers (i.e., to the extent Citi made representation 
and warranties on loans it purchased from third-party sellers that remain 
financially viable, Citi may have the right to seek recovery from the third 
party based on representations and warranties made by the third party to Citi 
(a ﬁback-to-backﬂ claim)).In the case of a repurchase, Citi will bear any subsequent credit loss on the mortgage loan and the loan is typically considered a credit-impaired 
loan and accounted for under AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 03-3, 

ﬁAccounting for Certain Loans and Debt Securities Acquired in a Transferﬂ 

(now incorporated into ASC 310-30, ReceivablesŠLoans and Debt 
Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality) (SOP 03-3).In the case of a repurchase of a credit-impaired SOP 03-3 loan, the difference between the loan™s fair value and unpaid principal balance at the 

time of the repurchase is recorded as a utilization of the repurchase reserve. 
Make-whole payments to the investor are also treated as utilizations and 
charged directly against the reserve. The repurchase reserve is estimated 
when Citi sells loans (recorded as an adjustment to the gain on sale, which is 
included in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income) and is 
updated quarterly. Any change in estimate is recorded in 
Other revenue.GoodwillGoodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost over the fair value 
of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to 
annual impairment testing and between annual tests if an event occurs 
or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair 
value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company has an 
option to assess qualitative factors to determine if it is necessary to perform 
the goodwill impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or 
circumstances, the Company determines that it is not more likely than not 
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, no 
further testing is necessary. If, however, the Company determines that it 
is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than 
its carrying amount, the Company is required to perform the first step 
of the two-step goodwill impairment test. Furthermore, on any business 
dispositions, goodwill is allocated to the business disposed of based on the 
ratio of the fair value of the business disposed of to the fair value of the 
reporting unit.Additional information on Citi™s goodwill impairment testing can be 
found in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Intangible AssetsIntangible assetsŠincluding core deposit intangibles, present value 
of future profits, purchased credit card relationships, other customer 
relationships, and other intangible assets, but excluding MSRsŠare 
amortized over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets deemed to 
have indefinite useful lives, primarily certain asset management contracts 
and trade names, are not amortized and are subject to annual impairment 
tests. An impairment exists if the carrying value of the indefinite-lived 
intangible asset exceeds its fair value. For other intangible assets subject to 
amortization, an impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not 
recoverable and exceeds the fair value of the intangible asset.Other Assets and Other LiabilitiesOther assets include, among other items, loans held-for-sale, deferred tax 
assets, equity method investments, interest and fees receivable, premises 
and equipment, repossessed assets, and other receivables. Other liabilities include, among other items, accrued expenses and other payables, deferred 
tax liabilities, and reserves for legal claims, taxes, unfunded lending 
commitments, repositioning reserves, and other matters.Other Real Estate Owned and Repossessed AssetsReal estate or other assets received through foreclosure or repossession are 
generally reported in Other assets, net of a valuation allowance for selling 
costs and subsequent declines in fair value.SecuritizationsThe Company primarily securitizes credit card receivables and mortgages. 
Other types of securitized assets include corporate debt instruments (in cash 
and synthetic form) and student loans.There are two key accounting determinations that must be made relating to securitizations. Citi first makes a determination as to whether the 
securitization entity would be consolidated. Second, it determines whether 
the transfer of financial assets to the entity is considered a sale under GAAP. If 

the securitization entity is a VIE, the Company consolidates the VIE if it is the 
primary beneficiary (as discussed in ﬁVariable Interest Entitiesﬂ above). For 

all other securitization entities determined not to be VIEs in which Citigroup 
participates, a consolidation decision is based on which party has voting 
control of the entity, giving consideration to removal and liquidation rights 

in certain partnership structures. Only securitization entities controlled by 
Citigroup are consolidated.Interests in the securitized and sold assets may be retained in the form of subordinated or senior interest-only strips, subordinated tranches, spread 
accounts and servicing rights. In credit card securitizations, the Company 
retains a seller™s interest in the credit card receivables transferred to the trusts, 

which is not in securitized form. In the case of consolidated securitization 
entities, including the credit card trusts, these retained interests are not 
reported on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The securitized loans remain 
163on the balance sheet. Substantially all of the Consumer loans sold or securitized through non-consolidated trusts by Citigroup are U.S. prime 
residential mortgage loans. Retained interests in non-consolidated mortgage 
securitization trusts are classified as Trading account assets
, except for 
MSRs, which are included in Mortgage servicing rights on Citigroup™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet.DebtShort-term borrowings and long-term debt are accounted for at amortized 
cost, except where the Company has elected to report the debt instruments, 
including certain structured notes at fair value, or the debt is in a fair value 
hedging relationship.Transfers of Financial AssetsFor a transfer of financial assets to be considered a sale: (i) the assets 
must have been isolated from the Company, even in bankruptcy or other 
receivership; (ii) the purchaser must have the right to pledge or sell the 
assets transferred or, if the purchaser is an entity whose sole purpose is to 
engage in securitization and asset-backed financing activities and that entity 
is constrained from pledging the assets it receives, each beneficial interest 
holder must have the right to sell the beneficial interests; and (iii) the 
Company may not have an option or obligation to reacquire the assets.If these sale requirements are met, the assets are removed from the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the conditions for sale are not 

met, the transfer is considered to be a secured borrowing, the assets remain 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the sale proceeds are recognized as 
the Company™s liability. A legal opinion on a sale generally is obtained for 

complex transactions or where the Company has continuing involvement 
with assets transferred or with the securitization entity. For a transfer to 

be eligible for sale accounting, those opinions must state that the asset 
transfer would be considered a sale and that the assets transferred would 
not be consolidated with the Company™s other assets in the event of the 

Company™s insolvency.
For a transfer of a portion of a financial asset to be considered a sale, the portion transferred must meet the definition of a participating interest. 
A participating interest must represent a pro rata ownership in an entire 
financial asset; all cash flows must be divided proportionately, with the 

same priority of payment; no participating interest in the transferred asset 
may be subordinated to the interest of another participating interest holder; 
and no party may have the right to pledge or exchange the entire financial 
asset unless all participating interest holders agree. Otherwise, the transfer is 
accounted for as a secured borrowing.See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.Risk Management ActivitiesŠDerivatives Used for 
Hedging PurposesThe Company manages its exposures to market rate movements outside its 
trading activities by modifying the asset and liability mix, either directly 
or through the use of derivative financial products, including interest-rate 
swaps, futures, forwards, and purchased options, as well as foreign-exchange 
contracts. These end-user derivatives are carried at fair value in Other assets, Other liabilities, Trading account assets and Trading account liabilities.To qualify as an accounting hedge under the hedge accounting rules 
(versus an economic hedge where hedge accounting is not sought), a 
derivative must be highly effective in offsetting the risk designated as being 
hedged. The hedge relationship must be formally documented at inception, 
detailing the particular risk management objective and strategy for the 
hedge. This includes the item and risk that is being hedged, the derivative 
that is being used and how effectiveness will be assessed and ineffectiveness 
measured. The effectiveness of these hedging relationships is evaluated on 
a retrospective and prospective basis, typically using quantitative measures 
of correlation with hedge ineffectiveness measured and recorded in 
current earnings.If a hedge relationship is found to be ineffective, it no longer qualifies as an accounting hedge and hedge accounting would not be applied. Any gains 
or losses attributable to the derivatives, as well as subsequent changes in fair 
value, are recognized in Other revenue or Principal transactions with no 
offset to the hedged item, similar to trading derivatives.The foregoing criteria are applied on a decentralized basis, consistent with the level at which market risk is managed, but are subject to various limits 
and controls. The underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction may be 
an individual item or a portfolio of similar items.For fair value hedges, in which derivatives hedge the fair value of assets or liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivatives are reflected in Other revenue, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item related 
to the hedged risk. These are expected to, and generally do, offset each other. 

Any net amount, representing hedge ineffectiveness, is reflected in current 
earnings. Citigroup™s fair value hedges are primarily hedges of fixed-rate 

long-term debt and available-for-sale securities.
For cash flow hedges, in which derivatives hedge the variability of cash flows related to floating- and fixed-rate assets, liabilities or forecasted 
transactions, the accounting treatment depends on the effectiveness of 
the hedge. To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the 

variability of the hedged cash flows, the effective portion of the changes 
in the derivatives™ fair values will not be included in current earnings, but 
is reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These changes in fair value will be included in earnings of future periods when 
the hedged cash flows impact earnings. To the extent these derivatives 

are not effective, changes in their fair values are immediately included in 
Other revenue. Citigroup™s cash flow hedges primarily include hedges of 
164floating-rate debt and floating-rate assets, including loans and securities purchased under agreement to resell, as well as rollovers of short-term fixed-
rate liabilities and floating-rate liabilities and forecasted debt issuances.For net investment hedges in which derivatives hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the accounting 
treatment will similarly depend on the effectiveness of the hedge. The effective 
portion of the change in fair value of the derivative, including any forward 
premium or discount, is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment.For those accounting hedge relationships that are terminated or when hedge designations are removed, the hedge accounting treatment described 
in the paragraphs above is no longer applied. Instead, the end-user derivative 
is terminated or transferred to the trading account. For fair value hedges, any 
changes in the fair value of the hedged item remain as part of the basis of the 
asset or liability and are ultimately reflected as an element of the yield. For 
cash flow hedges, any changes in fair value of the end-user derivative remain 
in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are included in earnings of future periods when the hedged cash flows impact earnings. 
However, if it becomes probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will 

not occur, any amounts that remain in 
Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss) are immediately reflected in Other revenue.End-user derivatives that are economic hedges, rather than qualifying for hedge accounting, are also carried at fair value, with changes in value 
included in Principal transactions or Other revenue. Citigroup often 
uses economic hedges when qualifying for hedge accounting would be too 
complex or operationally burdensome; examples are hedges of the credit 
risk component of commercial loans and loan commitments. Citigroup 
periodically evaluates its hedging strategies in other areas and may designate 
either a qualifying hedge or an economic hedge, after considering the 
relative cost and benefits. Economic hedges are also employed when the 
hedged item itself is marked to market through current earnings, such as 
hedges of commitments to originate one-to-four-family mortgage loans to be 

held for sale and MSRs. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for a further discussion of the Company™s hedging and derivative activities.
Employee Benefits ExpenseEmployee benefits expense includes current service costs of pension and 
other postretirement benefit plans (which are accrued on a current basis), 
contributions and unrestricted awards under other employee plans, the 
amortization of restricted stock awards and costs of other employee benefits. 
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Stock-Based CompensationThe Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock and option 
awards over the requisite service period, generally based on the instruments™ 
grant-date fair value, reduced by expected forfeitures. Compensation 
cost related to awards granted to employees who meet certain age plus years-of-service requirements (retirement eligible employees) is accrued in 
the year prior to the grant date, in the same manner as the accrual for cash 
incentive compensation. Certain stock awards with performance conditions 
or certain clawback provisions are subject to variable accounting, pursuant 
to which the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in 
Citigroup™s stock price. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Income TaxesThe Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S. and its states and 
municipalities, and the foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. These tax 
laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and 
the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for 
income tax expense, the Company must make judgments and interpretations 
about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. The Company 
must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect 
taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign.Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be 
settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company 
treats interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of Income tax expense.Deferred taxes are recorded for the future consequences of events that have been recognized for financial statements or tax returns, based upon 
enacted tax laws and rates. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to 
management™s judgment that realization is more-likely-than-not. FASB 

Interpretation No. 48, ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxesﬂ 

(FIN 48) (now incorporated into ASC 740, Income Taxes
), sets out a 
consistent framework to determine the appropriate level of tax reserves to 
maintain for uncertain tax positions. This interpretation uses a two-step 
approach wherein a tax benefit is recognized if a position is more-likely-
than-not to be sustained. The amount of the benefit is then measured to be 
the highest tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely to be realized. FIN 48 
also sets out disclosure requirements to enhance transparency of an entity™s 

tax reserves.See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of the Company™s tax provision and related income tax assets 

and liabilities.Commissions, Underwriting and Principal TransactionsCommissions revenues are recognized in income generally when earned. 
Underwriting revenues are recognized in income typically at the closing of 
the transaction. Principal transactions revenues are recognized in income on 
a trade-date basis. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a 
description of the Company™s revenue recognition policies for commissions 
and fees, and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of 
Principal Transactions revenue.165Earnings per ShareEarnings per share (EPS) is computed after deducting preferred stock dividends. The Company has granted restricted and deferred share awards 
with dividend rights that are considered to be participating securities, 
which are akin to a second class of common stock. Accordingly, a portion 
of Citigroup™s earnings is allocated to those participating securities in the 
EPS calculation.Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common stockholders after the allocation of dividends and undistributed 
earnings to the participating securities by the weighted average number 
of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per 
share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other 
contracts to issue common stock were exercised. It is computed after giving 
consideration to the weighted average dilutive effect of the Company™s 

stock options and warrants, convertible securities and the shares that 
could have been issued under the Company™s Management Committee 

Long-Term Incentive Plan and after the allocation of earnings to the 

participating securities.Use of EstimatesManagement must make estimates and assumptions that affect the 
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related footnote disclosures. Such 
estimates are used in connection with certain fair value measurements. See 
Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions 
on estimates used in the determination of fair value. The Company also 
uses estimates in determining consolidation decisions for special-purpose 
entities as discussed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Moreover, estimates are significant in determining the amounts of other-
than-temporary impairments, impairments of goodwill and other intangible 
assets, provisions for probable losses that may arise from credit-related 
exposures and probable and estimable losses related to litigation and 
regulatory proceedings, and tax reserves. While management makes its 
best judgment, actual amounts or results could differ from those estimates. 
Current market conditions increase the risk and complexity of the judgments 
in these estimates.Cash FlowsCash equivalents are defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from banks. Cash flows from risk management activities are classified in the 
same category as the related assets and liabilities.Related Party TransactionsThe Company has related party transactions with certain of its subsidiaries 
and affiliates. These transactions, which are primarily short-term in nature, 
include cash accounts, collateralized financing transactions, margin 
accounts, derivative trading, charges for operational support and the 
borrowing and lending of funds, and are entered into in the ordinary course 
of business.166ACCOUNTING CHANGESOIS Benchmark RateIn July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-10, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge 
Accounting Purposes. This ASU permits the Fed funds effective swap rate 
(OIS) to be used as a U.S. benchmark interest rate, in addition to the U.S. 
Treasury rate and LIBOR, for hedge accounting purposes. The ASU also 
permits using different benchmark rates for similar hedges.This ASU became effective upon issuance and permitted prospective application for qualifying new or redesignated hedging relationships 
commencing on or after July 17, 2013. By introducing a new benchmark 
interest rate eligible for hedging under ASC 815, this ASU improves the 
Company™s ability to manage interest rate risk by allowing the designation of 

hedging derivatives that are more closely aligned with the interest rate risk 
profile of certain assets and liabilities.Remeasurement of Significant Pension and Postretirement Benefit PlansIn the second quarter of 2013, the Company changed the method of accounting for its most significant pension and postretirement benefit plans 
(Significant Plans) such that plan obligations, plan assets and periodic plan 
expense are remeasured and disclosed quarterly, instead of annually. The 
effect of remeasuring the Significant Plan obligations and assets by updating 
plan actuarial assumptions on a quarterly basis is reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and periodic plan expense. The 
Significant Plans captured approximately 80% of the Company™s global 
pension and postretirement plan obligations at December 31, 2012. All other 
plans (All Other Plans) will continue to be remeasured annually. Quarterly 
measurement for the Significant Plans provides a more timely measurement 
of the funded status and periodic plan expense for the Company™s significant 
pension and postretirement benefit plans.The cumulative effect of this change in accounting policy was an approximate $20 million (pretax) decrease in net periodic plan expense in 
the second quarter of 2013, as well as a pretax increase of approximately 
$22 million to Accumulated other comprehensive income as of April 1, 
2013. The change in accounting methodology had an immaterial impact 
on prior periods. For additional information, see Note 8 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Reclassification Out of Accumulated Other 
Comprehensive IncomeIn February 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 
No. 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts 
Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which required new footnote disclosures of items reclassified from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) to net income. The requirements 
became effective for the first quarter of 2013 and are included in Note 20 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for ImpairmentIn July 2012, the FASB issued ASU No. 2012-02, IntangiblesŠGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for 
Impairment. The ASU is intended to simplify the guidance for testing the 
decline in the realizable value (impairment) of indefinite-lived intangible 
assets other than goodwill. Some examples of intangible assets subject to 
the guidance include indefinite-lived trademarks, licenses and distribution 
rights. The ASU allows companies to perform a qualitative assessment 
about the likelihood of impairment of an indefinite-lived intangible asset 
to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary, similar in 
approach to the goodwill impairment test. The ASU became effective for 
annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning 
after September 15, 2012.In performing the annual impairment analysis for indefinite-lived intangible assets in July 2013, including goodwill, Citi elected to bypass the 
optional qualitative assessment described above, choosing instead to perform 
a quantitative analysis. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.OffsettingIn December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-11, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. The ASU requires new disclosures for derivatives, resale and repurchase agreements, 
and securities borrowing and lending transactions that are either offset in 
the balance sheet (presented on a net basis) or subject to an enforceable 
master netting arrangement or similar arrangement. The standard requires 
disclosures that provide incremental gross and net information in the 
current notes to the financial statements for the relevant assets and liabilities. 
The ASU did not change the existing offsetting eligibility criteria or the 
permitted balance sheet presentation for those instruments that meet the 
eligibility criteria.The new incremental disclosure requirements became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2013 and was required to be presented retrospectively 
for prior periods. The incremental requirements can be found in Note 11 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for resale and repurchase agreements 
and securities borrowing and lending transactions and Note 23 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for derivatives.167OCC Chapter 7 Bankruptcy GuidanceIn the third quarter of 2012, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued guidance relating to the accounting for mortgage loans 
discharged through bankruptcy proceedings pursuant to Chapter 7 of the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 7 bankruptcy). Under this OCC guidance, 
the discharged loans are accounted for as troubled debt restructurings 
(TDRs). These TDRs, other than FHA-insured loans, are written down to their 
collateral value less cost to sell. FHA-insured loans are reserved for, based on 
a discounted cash flow model. As a result of implementing this guidance, 
Citigroup recorded an incremental $635 million of charge-offs in the third 
quarter of 2012, the vast majority of which related to loans that were current. 
These charge-offs were substantially offset by a related loan loss reserve 
release of approximately $600 million, with a net reduction in pretax income 
of $35 million. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Citigroup recorded a benefit 
to charge-offs of approximately $40 million related to finalizing the impact 
of this OCC guidance. Furthermore, as a result of this OCC guidance, TDRs 
increased by $1.7 billion and non-accrual loans increased by $1.5 billion in 
the third quarter of 2012 ($1.3 billion of which was current).Presentation of Comprehensive IncomeIn June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income. The ASU requires an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of 
net income, and the components of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) 
either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two 
separate but consecutive statements. Citigroup selected the two-statement 
approach. Under this approach, Citi is required to present components of net 
income and total net income in the Statement of Income. The Statement of 
Comprehensive Income follows the Statement of Income and includes the 
components of OCI and a total for OCI, along with a total for comprehensive 
income. The ASU removed the option of reporting OCI in the statement of 
changes in stockholders™ equity. This ASU became effective for Citigroup on 
January 1, 2012 and a Statement of Comprehensive Income is included in 
these Consolidated Financial Statements.Fair Value MeasurementIn May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement 
(Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement 
and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The ASU created 
a common definition of fair value for GAAP and IFRS and aligned the 
measurement and disclosure requirements. It required significant additional 
disclosures both of a qualitative and quantitative nature, particularly for 
those instruments measured at fair value that are classified in Level 3 of 
the fair value hierarchy. Additionally, the ASU provided guidance on when 
it is appropriate to measure fair value on a portfolio basis and expanded 
the prohibition on valuation adjustments where the size of the Company™s 
position is a characteristic of the adjustment from Level 1 to all levels of the 
fair value hierarchy.The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012. As a result of implementing the prohibition on valuation adjustments where the size of 
the Company™s position is a characteristic, the Company released reserves of 

approximately $125 million, increasing pretax income in the first quarter 
of 2012.Deferred Asset Acquisition CostsIn October 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-26, Financial ServicesŠInsurance (Topic 944): Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring 
or Renewing Insurance Contracts. The ASU amended the guidance for 
insurance entities that required deferral and subsequent amortization of 
certain costs incurred during the acquisition of new or renewed insurance 
contracts, commonly referred to as deferred acquisition costs (DAC). The 
new guidance limited DAC to those costs directly related to the successful 
acquisition of insurance contracts; all other acquisition-related costs must be 
expensed as incurred. Under prior guidance, DAC consisted of those costs that 
vary with, and primarily relate to, the acquisition of insurance contracts.The ASU became effective for Citigroup on January 1, 2012 and was adopted using the retrospective method. As a result of implementing the ASU, 
in the first quarter of 2012, DAC was reduced by approximately $165 million 
and a $58 million deferred tax asset was recorded with an offset to opening 
retained earnings of $107 million (net of tax).168FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDSAccounting for Investments in Tax Credit PartnershipsIn January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-01, InvestmentsŠEquity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments 
in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects, which is effective for Citi for 
interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014. 
Any transition adjustment would be reflected as an adjustment to retained 
earnings in the earliest period presented (retrospective application). The ASU 
will be applicable to Citi™s portfolio of low income housing tax credit (LIHTC) 
partnership interests. The new standard widens the scope of investments 
eligible to elect to apply a new alternative method, the proportional 
amortization method, under which the cost of the investment is amortized to 
tax expense in proportion to the amount of tax credits and other tax benefits 
received. Citi anticipates that its entire LIHTC portfolio will qualify to elect 
the proportional amortization method under the ASU. These investments are 
currently accounted for under the equity method, which results in losses (due 
to amortization of the investment) being recognized in Other revenue and tax credits and benefits being recognized in the Income tax expense line. In contrast, the proportional amortization method combines the amortization 
of the investment and receipt of the tax credits/benefits into one line, 
Income tax expense. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting this 
ASU. Early adoption of this new standard is permitted and Citi is currently 
evaluating whether to adopt the ASU early for the 2014 fiscal year.Reclassification of Defaulted Consumer Mortgage Loans 
upon ForeclosureIn January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-04, ReceivablesŠTroubled 
Debt Restructurings by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40): Reclassification 
of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans 
upon Foreclosure. This ASU clarifies when an in-substance repossession 
or foreclosure occurs that would require a transfer of the mortgage 
loan to other real estate owned (OREO). Under the ASU, repossession or 
foreclosure is deemed to have occurred when (1) the creditor obtains legal 
title to the residential real estate property or (2) the borrower conveys all 
interest in the residential real estate property to the creditor to satisfy the 
mortgage loan through completion of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or a 
similar legal agreement. The ASU will become effective for annual and 
interim periods beginning after December 15, 2014 and can be adopted. 
The ASU can be adopted using either a modified retrospective method or a 
prospective transition method with the cumulative effect being recognized 
in the beginning retained earnings of the earliest annual period for which 
the ASU is adopted. The standard will not have a material effect on Citi™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements, as Citi™s current practice complies with 
the ASU™s provisions.Investment CompaniesIn June 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-08, Financial ServicesŠInvestment Companies (Topic 946): Amendments to the Scope, 
Measurement, and Disclosure Requirements. This ASU introduces a 
new approach for assessing whether an entity is an investment company. 
To determine whether an entity is an investment company for accounting 
purposes, Citi will now be required to evaluate the fundamental and typical 
characteristics of the entity including its purpose and design.The amendments in the ASU will be effective for Citi in the first quarter of 2014. Earlier application is prohibited. No material impact is anticipated 
from adopting this ASU.Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net 
Operating Loss Carry-forward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a 
Tax Credit Carry-forward ExistsIn July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating 
Loss Carry-forward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carry-forward 
Exists (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). As a result of applying this ASU, an unrecognized tax benefit should be presented as a 
reduction of a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss (NOL) or other tax 
credit carry-forward when settlement in this manner is available under the 
tax law. The assessment of whether settlement is available under the tax law 
would be based on facts and circumstances as of the balance sheet reporting 
date and would not consider future events (e.g., upcoming expiration of 
related NOL carry-forwards). This classification should not affect an entity™s 
analysis of the realization of its deferred tax assets. Gross presentation in 
the rollforward of unrecognized tax positions in the notes to the financial 
statements would still be required.This ASU is effective for Citi in its 2014 fiscal year, and may be applied on 
a prospective basis to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist at the effective 
date. Citi has the option to apply the ASU retrospectively. Early adoption 

is also permitted. The impact of adopting this ASU is not expected to be 
material to Citi.169Accounting for Financial InstrumentsŠCredit LossesIn December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed ASU, Financial InstrumentsŠCredit Losses. This proposed ASU, or exposure draft, was issued for public comment in order to allow stakeholders the opportunity 
to review the proposal and provide comments to the FASB, and does not 
constitute accounting guidance until a final ASU is issued.The exposure draft contains proposed guidance developed by the FASB 
with the goal of improving financial reporting about expected credit losses 
on loans, securities and other financial assets held by banks, financial 
institutions, and other public and private organizations. The exposure draft 
proposes a new accounting model intended to require earlier recognition of 
credit losses, while also providing additional transparency about credit risk.The FASB™s proposed model would utilize a single ﬁexpected credit 
lossﬂ measurement objective for the recognition of credit losses at the 
time the financial asset is originated or acquired, replacing the multiple 
existing impairment models in GAAP, which generally require that a loss be 

ﬁincurredﬂ before it is recognized.The FASB™s proposed model represents a significant departure from 
existing GAAP, and may result in material changes to the Company™s 

accounting for financial instruments. The impact of the FASB™s final ASU 

to the Company™s financial statements will be assessed when it is issued. 

The exposure draft does not contain a proposed effective date; this would be 
included in the final ASU, when issued.Other Potential Amendments to Current Accounting 
StandardsThe FASB and International Accounting Standards Board, either jointly 
or separately, are currently working on several major projects, including 
amendments to existing accounting standards governing financial 
instruments, leases and consolidation. In particular, as part of the joint 
financial instruments project, the FASB has issued a proposed ASU that 
would result in significant changes to the guidance for recognition and 
measurement of financial instruments, in addition to the proposed 
ASU that would change the accounting for credit losses on financial 
instruments discussed above. The FASB is also working on a joint project 
that would require substantially all leases to be capitalized on the balance 
sheet. Additionally, the FASB has issued a proposal on principal-agent 
considerations that would change the way the Company needs to evaluate whether to consolidate VIEs and non-VIE partnerships. The principal-
agent consolidation proposal would require all VIEs, including those that 
are investment companies, to be evaluated for consolidation under the 
same requirements.The FASB recently issued a proposed ASU relating to the accounting for 
insurance contracts that would include in its scope many contracts currently 
accounted for as financial instruments and guarantees, including some 
where credit risk rather than insurance risk is the primary risk factor, such 

as standby letters of credit and liquidity facilities. Representations and 
warranties and indemnifications would also be considered to be insurance 
contracts. As a result, the timing of income recognition for insurance 
contracts could be changed and certain financial contracts deemed to have 
insurance risk, such as catastrophe bonds, could no longer be recorded 
at fair value.All of these projects may have significant impacts for the Company. 
Upon completion of the standards, the Company will need to re-evaluate its 
accounting and disclosures. However, due to ongoing deliberations of the 

standard setters, the Company is currently unable to determine the effect of 
future amendments or proposals. 1702. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONSThe following Discontinued operations are recorded within the Corporate/Other segment.Sale of Brazil Credicard BusinessOn December 20, 2013, Citi sold its non-Citibank branded cards and 
consumer finance business in Brazil (Credicard) for approximately $1.24 
billion. The sale resulted in a pretax gain of $206 million ($325 million 
after-tax). In the fourth quarter of 2013, certain expenses related to Credicard 
were recognized by Citi in Income (loss) from discontinued operations. 
The net impact of these expenses and the gain on sale was an after-tax 
benefit of $189 million recorded in Corporate/Other. Citi retained its 
Citi-branded and Diners credit cards, along with certain affluent segments 
currently associated with Credicard, which will be re-branded as Citi. 
Previously, Credicard had been part of the Global Consumer Banking 
segment and had approximately $3.5 billion in assets prior to the sale.Credicard is reported as Discontinued operations for all periods presented.Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations for Credicard follows:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$1,012˝˛˙˚ˆˇ˝˛˙˚˜˜
$(48)˝˛˛˚˝206(138)Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$296˝˝†
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
$197˝˝
(207)
Š˛•Net cash provided by discontinued operations
$(10)˝•˝Sale of Certain Citi Capital Advisors BusinessDuring the third quarter of 2012, Citi executed definitive agreements to 
transition a carve-out of its liquid strategies business within Citi Capital 
Advisors (CCA). The sale occurred pursuant to two separate transactions, 
creating two separate management companies. The first transaction closed in 

February 2013, and Citigroup retained a 24.9% passive equity interest in the 
management company (which is held in Citi™s Institutional Clients Group segment). The second transaction closed in August 2013.This sale is reported as Discontinued operations for the second half of 2012 and 2013. Prior periods were not reclassified due to the immateriality of 
the impact in those periods.Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations for the operations related to CCA follows:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$74˝•˚
$(158)62
(30)Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$(66)†
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜
$(43)˝
Šˆ
43Net cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š˝171Sale of Egg Banking plc Credit Card BusinessOn March 1, 2011, Citi announced that Egg Banking plc (Egg), an indirect subsidiary that was part of Citi Holdings, entered into a definitive agreement 
to sell its credit card business. The sale closed in April 2011.An after-tax gain on sale of $126 million was recognized upon closing. 
Egg operations had total assets and total liabilities of approximately 
$2.7 billion and $39 million, respectively, at the time of sale.
Summarized financial information for Discontinued operations for the operations related to Egg follows:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$Š˝˛˝…ˆ˚
$(62)˝˝˜ˆŠ˛ˆ…
(22)Income (loss) from discontinued  operations, net of taxes
$(40)˝˝†
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
$Š˝˝
Š
ŠNet cash provided by discontinued operations
$Š˝˝Audit of Citi German Consumer Tax GroupCiti sold its German retail banking operations in 2007 and reported them 
as Discontinued operations. During the third quarter of 2013, German 
tax authorities concluded their audit of Citi™s German Consumer tax group 
for the years 2005-2008. This resolution resulted in a pretax benefit of $27 
million and a tax benefit of $57 million ($85 million total net income 
benefit) during the third quarter of 2013, all of which was included in 
Discontinued operations. During 2013, residual costs associated with 
German retail banking operations resulted in a pretax benefit of $26 million 
and a tax benefit of $54 million ($80 million total net income benefit).Combined Results for Discontinued OperationsThe following is summarized financial information for Credicard, CCA, Egg, 
the German tax benefit and previous Discontinued operations for which Citi 
continues to have minimal residual costs associated with the sales:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Total revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)$1,086˝˛˙˛˚•˝˛˙…–ˆ
$(242)˝˝268˛ˇˇ
(244)˛˜Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes
$270˝˝†
Cash Flows from Discontinued OperationsIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
$154˝˝
(207)
43˛•Net cash provided by discontinued
 operations$(10)˝•˝˜˙•ˇ…1723. BUSINESS SEGMENTSCitigroup is a diversified bank holding company whose businesses provide a broad range of financial services to Consumer and Corporate customers 
around the world. The Company™s activities are conducted through the 
Global Consumer Banking (GCB), Institutional Clients Group (ICG), 
Corporate/Other and Citi Holdings business segments.The GCB segment includes a global, full-service Consumer franchise delivering a wide array of banking, credit card lending and investment 
services through a network of local branches, offices and electronic delivery 
systems and is composed of four Regional Consumer Banking (RCB) 
businesses: North America, EMEA, Latin America and Asia.The Company™s 
ICG segment is composed of Securities and Banking and Transaction Services
 and provides corporate, institutional, public sector and 
high-net-worth clients in approximately 100 countries with a broad range of 
banking and financial products and services.Corporate/Other includes net treasury results, unallocated corporate expenses, offsets to certain line-item reclassifications (eliminations), the 
results of discontinued operations and unallocated taxes.The Citi Holdings segment is composed of businesses and portfolios of assets that Citigroup has determined are not central to its core Citicorp 
businesses.The accounting policies of these reportable segments are the same as those disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The prior-period balances reflect reclassifications to conform the 
presentation in those periods to the current period™s presentation. 

Reclassifications during the second quarter of 2013 related to the reporting of 
Citi™s announced sale of Credicard as discontinued operations are reflected for 

all periods presented (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
Reclassifications during the first quarter of 2013 were related to the re-
allocation of certain administrative costs and the re-allocation of certain 
funding costs among Citi™s businesses.
The following table presents certain information regarding the Company™s 
continuing operations by segment:Revenues, net of interest expense
 (1)Provision
 (benefit) for income taxesIncome (loss) from continuing operations (2)Identifiable assetsIn millions of dollars, except identifiable
 assets in billions2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜Global Consumer Banking$38,169˝˙ˆˇ˛˜˚˝$3,638˝˝$7,132˝˝$405˝Institutional Clients Group33,578˙˜ˇ˛˙˛3,9729,631˘ˇ˚ˆ˙1,045Corporate/Other
77(614)(1,259)313
$71,824˝˝$6,996˝˝$15,504˝˝$1,763˝4,542(1,129)(1,874)117
$76,366˝˝$5,867˝˝$13,630˝˝$1,880˝Corporate/Other

North America
EMEA
Latin 

America
Asia•š
Corporate/Other



GCB
ICG

•š
1734. INTEREST REVENUE AND EXPENSEFor the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, Interest revenue and Interest expense consisted of the following:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Interest revenue
$45,580˝˝1,026
2,566
6,919˘ˇ˙˜˚
6,277602Total interest revenue
$62,970˝˝Interest expense
$6,236˝˝
2,339
169˛ˆ˚5976,836ˆˇ˛˘˘Total interest expense
$16,177˝˝Net interest revenue$46,793˝˝
7,604Net interest revenue after provision for 
 loan losses$39,189˝˝Trading account liabilities
ICGTrading account assets
š•š
1745. COMMISSIONS AND FEESThe table below sets forth Citigroup™s Commissions and fees revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. The primary components of 
Commissions and fees revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 were 
credit card and bank card fees, investment banking fees, trading-related fees 
and Transaction Services.Credit card and bank card fees primarily are composed of interchange revenue and certain card fees, including annual fees, reduced by reward 
program costs and certain partner payments. Interchange revenue and fees 
are recognized when earned, except for annual card fees, which are deferred 
and amortized on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period. Reward costs 
are recognized when points are earned by the customers.Investment banking fees are substantially composed of underwriting and advisory revenues. Investment banking fees are recognized when Citigroup™s 

performance under the terms of the contractual arrangements is completed, 
which is typically at the closing of the transaction. Underwriting revenue is 
recorded in Commissions and fees, net of both reimbursable and non-
reimbursable expenses, consistent with the AICPA Audit and Accounting 

Guide for Brokers and Dealers in Securities (codified in ASC 940-605-05-1). 
Expenses associated with advisory transactions are recorded in Other operating expenses, net of client reimbursements. Out-of-pocket expenses 
are deferred and recognized at the time the related revenue is recognized. 
In general, expenses incurred related to investment banking transactions 
that fail to close (are not consummated) are recorded gross in Other operating expenses.Trading-related fees primarily include commissions and fees from the 
following: executing transactions for clients on exchanges and over-the-

counter markets; sale of mutual funds, insurance and other annuity 
products; and assisting clients in clearing transactions, providing brokerage 
services and other such activities. Trading-related fees are recognized 

when earned in Commissions and fees. Gains or losses, if any, on these 

transactions are included in Principal transactions (see Note 6 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements).The following table presents Commissions and fees revenue for the years ended December 31:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛$2,472˝˝3,315˜ˇˆˆ˛
2,532
1,847˛ˇ˘˜˛911ˆ˚˘ˆˆ˚
551
500˙˛˙
516469Total commissions and fees
$13,113˝˝



1756. PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONSPrincipal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities. Trading activities include revenues 
from fixed income, equities, credit and commodities products, and foreign 
exchange transactions. Not included in the table below is the impact of 
net interest revenue related to trading activities, which is an integral part 
of trading activities™ profitability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for information about net interest revenue related to trading 
activity. Principal transactions include CVA (credit valuation adjustment on 
derivatives) and DVA (debt valuation adjustments on issued liabilities, for 
which the fair value option has been elected).The following table presents principal transactions revenue for the years ended December 31:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Global Consumer Banking$863˝˘˛˜˝Institutional Clients Group6,310Corporate/Other
(76)$7,097˝˝24˙˛Total Citigroup
$7,121˝˝
$3,978˝˜ˇ˙˚˛˝2,224˜ˇ˙˚ˆ319˙267ˆ˜
333Total
$7,121˝˝
















7. INCENTIVE PLANSOverviewThe Company makes restricted or deferred stock and/or deferred cash awards, as well as stock payments, as part of its discretionary annual incentive award 
program involving a large segment of Citigroup™s employees worldwide.Stock awards, deferred cash awards and grants of stock options also may be made at various times during the year as sign-on awards to induce new 
hires to join the Company or to high-potential employees as long-term 
retention awards.Consistent with long-standing practice, a portion of annual compensation for non-employee directors also is delivered in the form of equity awards.Other incentive awards are made on an annual or other regular basis pursuant to programs designed to retain and motivate certain employees 
who do not participate in Citigroup™s annual discretionary incentive award 

program.Recipients of Citigroup stock awards generally do not have any stockholder rights until shares are delivered upon vesting or exercise, or after 
the expiration of applicable required holding periods. Recipients of restricted 
or deferred stock awards, however, may be entitled to receive dividends 

or dividend-equivalent payments during the vesting period. Recipients 
of restricted stock awards generally are entitled to vote the shares in their 
award during the vesting period. Once a stock award vests, the shares are 
freely transferable, unless they are subject to a restriction on sale or transfer 
for a specified period. Pursuant to a stock ownership commitment, certain 
executives have committed to holding most of their vested shares indefinitely.
All equity awards granted since April 19, 2005 have been made pursuant to stockholder-approved stock incentive plans that are administered by the 

Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Citigroup Board of Directors 
(the Committee), which is composed entirely of independent non-employee 
directors.At December 31, 2013, approximately 68.4 million shares of Citigroup common stock were authorized and available for grant under Citigroup™s 

2009 Stock Incentive Plan, the only plan from which equity awards are 
currently granted.The 2009 Stock Incentive Plan and predecessor plans permit the use of treasury stock or newly issued shares in connection with awards granted 
under the plans. Newly issued shares were issued to settle the vesting of 
annual deferred stock awards in January 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. The 
newly issued shares in January 2011 were specifically intended to increase 
the Company™s equity capital. The use of treasury stock or newly issued 

shares to settle stock awards does not affect the amortization recorded in the 
Consolidated Income Statement for equity awards.176The following table shows components of compensation expense relating to the Company™s stock-based compensation programs and deferred cash 
award programs as recorded during 2013, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛

$468˝˝˙˙˘10ˆˆ


230˛ˆ˘˜˚˘
54

862Total
$1,624˝˝







Annual Incentive AwardsMost of the shares of common stock issued by Citigroup as part of its equity 
compensation programs are to settle the vesting of restricted and deferred 
stock awards granted as part of discretionary annual incentive awards. These 
annual incentive awards generally also include immediate cash bonus 
payments and deferred cash awards and, in the European Union (EU), 
immediately vested stock payments.Discretionary annual incentives generally are awarded in the first quarter of the year based upon the previous year™s performance. Awards valued at 

less than U.S. $100,000 (or the local currency equivalent) generally are paid 
entirely in the form of an immediate cash bonus. Pursuant to Citigroup 
policy and/or regulatory requirements, employees and officers with higher 
incentive award values are subject to mandatory deferrals of incentive 
pay and generally receive 25%-60% of their award in a combination of 
restricted or deferred stock and deferred cash awards. Certain employees are 
subject to reduced deferral requirements that apply to awards valued at less 
than U.S. $100,000 (or local currency equivalent). Discretionary annual 
incentive awards made to many employees in the EU are subject to deferral 
requirements between 40%-60%, regardless of the total award value, with 50% 
of the immediate incentive delivered in the form of a stock payment subject 
to a restriction on sale or transfer (generally, for six months).
Deferred annual incentive awards generally are delivered as two awardsŠa restricted or deferred stock award under the Company™s Capital 

Accumulation Program (CAP) and a deferred cash award. The applicable 
mix of CAP and deferred cash awards may vary based on the employee™s 

minimum deferral requirement and the country of employment. In some 
cases, the entire deferral will be in the form of either a CAP or deferred 
cash award.Subject to certain exceptions (principally, for retirement-eligible 
employees), continuous employment within Citigroup is required to vest 
in CAP and deferred cash awards. Post-employment vesting by retirement-
eligible employees and participants who meet other conditions generally is 
conditioned upon their refraining from competition with Citigroup during 
the remaining vesting period, unless the employment relationship has been 
terminated by Citigroup under certain conditions.Generally, the CAP and deferred cash awards vest in equal annual 
installments over three- or four-year periods. Vested CAP awards are delivered 

in shares of common stock. Dividend equivalent payments are paid to 
participants during the vesting period or accrued for participants who have 
a CAP award subject to the performance-vesting conditions described below. 

Deferred cash awards are payable in cash and earn a fixed notional rate of 
interest that is paid only if and when the underlying principal award amount 
vests. Generally, in the EU, vested CAP shares are subject to a restriction on 

sale or transfer after vesting, and vested deferred cash awards are subject to 
hold-back (generally, for six months in each case).
Unvested CAP and deferred cash awards made in January 2011 or later are subject to one or more clawback provisions that apply in certain 
circumstances, including in the case of employee risk-limit violations or 
other misconduct or where the awards were based on earnings that were 
misstated. Deferred cash awards made to certain employees in February 2013 
and later are subject to a discretionary performance-based vesting condition 
under which an amount otherwise scheduled to vest may be reduced in 
the event of a ﬁmaterial adverse outcomeﬂ for which a participant has 
ﬁsignificant responsibility.ﬂ Deferred cash awards made to these employees 

in February 2014 are subject to an additional clawback provision pursuant 
to which unvested awards may be canceled if the employee engaged in 
misconduct or exercised materially imprudent judgment, or who failed to 
supervise or escalate the behavior of other employees who did.CAP awards made to certain employees in February 2013 and later and deferred cash awards made to certain employees in January 2012 are subject 
to a formulaic performance-based vesting condition pursuant to which 
amounts otherwise scheduled to vest will be reduced based on the amount of 
any pretax loss by a participant™s business in the calendar year preceding the 

scheduled vesting date. For CAP awards made in February 2013 and later, a 

minimum reduction of 20% applies for the first dollar of loss.The annual incentive award structure and terms and conditions described above apply generally to awards made in 2011 and later, except where 

indicated otherwise. Annual incentive awards in January 2009 and 2010 of 
U.S. $100,000 or more (or local currency equivalent) were generally subject 
to deferral requirements between 25%-40%. In 2010, because an insufficient 
number of shares were available for grant under the 2009 Stock Incentive 
Plan, an alternative award structure was applied, primarily for deferrals of 
incentive awards in the U.S. and U.K. Under this structure, portions of the 
amounts that normally would have been deferred in the form of CAP awards 
were instead awarded as two types of deferred cash awardsŠone subject to a 
four-year vesting schedule and earning a LIBOR-based return, and the other 

subject to a two-year vesting schedule and denominated in stock units, the 177value of which fluctuated based on the price of Citigroup common stock. Other terms and conditions of these awards were the same as the CAP awards 
granted in 2010. In 2009, some deferrals also were made in the form of a 
deferred cash award subject to a four-year vesting schedule and earning a 

LIBOR-based return, in addition to a CAP award.Prior to 2009, a mandatory deferral requirement of at least 25% applied to incentive awards valued at $20,000 or more. Deferrals were in the form of 
CAP awards. In some cases, participants were entitled to elect to receive stock 
options in lieu of some or all of the value that otherwise would have been 
awarded as restricted or deferred stock. CAP awards granted prior to 2011 
were not subject to clawback provisions or performance criteria.Except for awards subject to variable accounting (as described below), the total expense recognized for stock awards represents the grant date fair value 
of such awards, which is generally recognized as a charge to income ratably 
over the vesting period, except for awards to retirement-eligible employees 
and stock payments (e.g., immediately vested awards). Whenever awards 
are made or are expected to be made to retirement-eligible employees, the 
charge to income is accelerated based on when the applicable conditions to 
retirement eligibility are or will be met. If the employee is retirement eligible 
on the grant date, the entire expense is recognized in the year prior to grant. 
For immediately vested stock payments, the charge to income is recognized 
in the year prior to grant. For employees who become retirement eligible 
during the vesting period, expense is recognized from the grant date until 
eligibility conditions are met.Expense for immediately vested stock awards that generally are made in lieu of cash compensation also is recognized in the year prior to grant in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Annual incentive awards made in January 2011 and January 2010 to certain executive officers and other highly compensated employees were 
administered in accordance with the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act 
of 2008, as amended (EESA), pursuant to structures approved by the Special 
Master for TARP Executive Compensation (Special Master). These structures 

included stock awards subject to vesting requirements over periods of up to 
three years and/or sale restrictions. Certain of these awards are subject to 
discretionary performance-based vesting conditions. These awards, and CAP 
awards to participants in the EU that are subject to certain discretionary 
clawback provisions, are subject to variable accounting, pursuant to which 
the associated charges fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s common 

stock price over the applicable vesting periods. For these awards, the total 
amount that will be recognized as expense cannot be determined in full 
until the awards vest. For stock awards subject to discretionary performance 
conditions, compensation expense was accrued based on Citigroup™s 

common stock price at the end of the reporting period and on the estimated 
outcome of meeting the performance conditions.In January 2009, certain senior executives received 30% of their annual incentive awards as performance-vesting equity awards conditioned primarily 
on stock-price performance. Because the price targets were not met, only a 
fraction of the awards vested. The fraction of awarded shares that vested was 
determined based on a ratio of the price of Citigroup™s common stock on 
January 14, 2013 (the award termination date) to the award™s price targets of 

$106.10 and $178.50. None of the shares awarded or vested were entitled to 
any payment or accrual of dividend equivalents. The grant-date fair value of 
the awards was recognized as compensation expense ratably over the vesting 
period.This fair value was determined using the following assumptions:Weighted-average per-share fair value
$22.97Weighted-average expected life
3.85 yearsValuation assumptions

Š
˛š˜˛Š˚š˘˘ŠSign-on and Long-Term AwardsAs referenced above, from time to time, restricted or deferred stock awards 
and/or stock option grants are made outside of Citigroup™s annual incentive 
programs to induce employees to join Citigroup or as special retention 
awards to key employees. Vesting periods vary, but generally are two to 
four years. Generally, recipients must remain employed through the 
vesting dates to vest in the awards, except in cases of death, disability or 
involuntary termination other than for ﬁgross misconduct.ﬂ Unlike CAP 
awards, these awards do not usually provide for post-employment vesting by 
retirement-eligible participants. If these stock awards are subject to certain 
clawback provisions or performance conditions, they may be subject to 
variable accounting.Deferred cash awards often are granted to induce new hires to join the Company and usually are intended to replace deferred incentives awarded 
by prior employers that were forfeited when the employees joined Citigroup. 
As such, the vesting schedules and terms and conditions of these awards 
generally are structured to match the vesting schedules and terms and 
conditions of the forfeited awards. The expense recognized in 2013 and 2012 
for these awards was $93 million and $147 million, respectively.
A retention award of deferred stock to then-CEO Vikram Pandit was made 
on May 17, 2011, and was scheduled to vest in three equal installments 
on December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015. The award was cancelled in its 
entirety when Mr.
 Pandit resigned in October 2012. Because of discretionary 
performance vesting conditions, the award was subject to variable accounting 

until its cancellation in the fourth quarter of 2012.178Director CompensationNon-employee directors receive part of their compensation in the form of deferred stock awards that vest in two years and may elect to receive part of 
their retainer in the form of a stock payment, which they may elect to defer.A summary of the status of Citigroup™s unvested stock awards that are not 
subject to variable accounting at December 31, 2013, and changes during the 
12 months ended December 31, 2013, are presented below:Unvested stock awards
SharesWeighted-average
 grant date fair value 
 per share
63,976,925$37.62
19,619,71543.96
(2,007,674)35.89ı
(26,438,206)38.83
55,150,760$39.37
A summary of the status of Citigroup™s unvested stock awards that are 
subject to variable accounting at December 31, 2013, and changes during the 
12 months ended December 31, 2013, are presented below:Unvested stock awards
SharesWeighted-
average award 
issuance fair 
 value per share

5,964,224$42.50
1,975,17443.94
(65,409)47.71ı
(1,887,967)42.52
5,986,022$42.91
At December 31, 2013, there was $694 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock awards, net of the forfeiture 
provision. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average 
period of 1.9 years. However, the cost of awards subject to variable accounting 

will fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s common stock price.
Stock Option ProgramsBeginning in 2009, directors were no longer able to elect to receive any of 
their compensation in the form of stock options, and the Company no longer 
grants stock options to employees as part of its annual incentive award 
programs (this last occurred when certain CAP participants were permitted to 
elect to receive stock options in lieu of restricted or deferred awards made in 
2009). Citigroup still grants stock options to employees on occasion, as sign-
on awards or as retention awards, as referenced above. All stock options are 
granted on Citigroup common stock with exercise prices that are no less than 
the fair market value at the time of grant. Vesting periods and other terms 
and conditions of sign-on and retention option grants tend to vary by grant.On February 14, 2011, Citigroup granted options exercisable for approximately 2.9 million shares of Citigroup common stock to certain of 
its executive officers. The options have six-year terms and vest in three equal 
annual installments beginning on February 14, 2012. The exercise price 
of the options is $49.10, which was the closing price of a share of Citigroup 
common stock on the grant date. On any exercise of the options before the 
fifth anniversary of the grant date, the shares received on exercise (net of the 
amount required to pay taxes and the exercise price) are subject to a one-
year transfer restriction.On April 20, 2010, Citigroup made an option grant to a group of employees who were not eligible for the October 29, 2009 broad-based grant 
described below. The options were awarded with an exercise price equal to 

the NYSE closing price of a share of Citigroup common stock on the trading 
day immediately preceding the date of grant ($48.80). The options vested in 
three annual installments beginning on October 29, 2010. The options have 
a six-year term.On October 29, 2009, Citigroup made a broad-based option grant to employees worldwide. The options have a six-year term, and generally 
vested in three equal installments over three years, beginning on the first 
anniversary of the grant date. The options were awarded with an exercise 
price equal to the NYSE closing price on the trading day immediately 
preceding the date of grant ($40.80). The CEO and other employees whose 
2009 compensation was subject to structures approved by the Special Master 
did not participate in this grant.In January 2009, members of Citigroup™s Management Executive 
Committee received 10% of their awards as performance-based stock options, 
with an exercise price that placed the awards significantly ﬁout of the 
moneyﬂ on the date of grant. Half of each executive™s options has an exercise 

price of $178.50 and half has an exercise price of $106.10. The options were 
granted on a day on which the NYSE closing price of a share of Citigroup 
common stock was $45.30. The options have a 10-year term and vested 
ratably over a four-year period.
Generally, all other options granted from 2003 through 2009 have six-year 
terms and vested ratably over three- or four-year periods; however, options 

granted to directors provided for cliff vesting. All outstanding options granted 
prior to 2009 are significantly ﬁout of the moneyﬂ.179Prior to 2003, Citigroup options had 10-year terms and generally vested at a rate of 20% per year over five years (with the first vesting date occurring 12 to 18 months following the grant date). All outstanding options that were 
granted prior to 2003 expired in 2012.From 1997 to 2002, a broad base of employees participated in annual option grant programs. The options vested over five-year periods, or cliff vested after five years, and had 10-year terms but no reload features. No 
grants have been made under these programs since 2002 and all options that 
remained outstanding expired in 2012.All unvested options granted to former CEO Vikram Pandit, including 
premium-priced stock options granted on May 17, 2011, were canceled upon 
his resignation in October 2012.Information with respect to stock option activity under Citigroup stock option programs for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is as follows:2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛OptionsWeighted-
 average  exercise 
 priceIntrinsic value
 per shareł

ł

Outstanding, beginning of period
35,020,397$51.20$Š˝˝œ˝˝œ
ŠŠŠœœœœ(50,914)212.35Šœœ(86,964)528.40Šœœ(3,374,413)40.819.54œœœOutstanding, end of period
31,508,106$50.72$1.39˝˝œ˝˝œExercisable, end of period
30,662,588The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding under Citigroup stock option programs at December 31, 2013:Options outstandingOptions exercisable
Range of exercise
 pricesNumber outstandingWeighted-average
 contractual life remainingWeighted-average
 exercise
 priceNumber exercisable
Weighted-average
 exercise
 price30,009,5522.1 years$42.5729,164,034$42.3969,9567.1 years56.7669,95656.76˝˛˚˚š˚˚œ˝˛ˆˆšˆˆ516,5314.9 years147.33516,531147.33˝˜˚˚š˚˚œ˝˜ˆˆšˆˆ712,0670.8 years243.80712,067243.80˝˙˚˚š˚˚œ˝˙ˆˆšˆˆ200,0004.1 years335.50200,000335.50
˙˛ˇ
31,508,1062.1 years$50.7330,662,588$50.78180As of December 31, 2013, there was $0.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options; this cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 0.1 years. Valuations and 

related assumptions for Citigroup option programs are presented below. 

Citigroup uses a lattice-type model to value stock options.For options granted
 during2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Weighted-average per-share fair value, 
 at December 31N/A˝˛˙šˆ˚Weighted-average expected life

N/AValuation assumptions

N/AŠ
N/A˜š˙˙ŠN/AœExpected annual forfeitures
N/AŠ
Profit Sharing PlanIn October 2010, the Committee approved awards under the 2010 Key 
Employee Profit Sharing Plan (KEPSP), which entitled participants to profit-
sharing payments based on an initial performance measurement period 
of January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012. Generally, if a participant 
remains employed and all other conditions to vesting and payment are 
satisfied, the participant would be entitled to an initial payment in 2013, 
as well as a holdback payment in 2014 that would be reduced based on 
performance during the subsequent holdback period (generally, January 1, 
2013 through December 31, 2013). Because the vesting and performance 
conditions were satisfied, the participant™s initial payment equaled two-thirds 
of the product of the cumulative pretax income of Citicorp (as defined in the 
KEPSP) for the initial performance period and the participant™s applicable 
percentage. The initial payments were paid in 2013 and were paid in cash, 
except for U.K. participants who received 50% of their payment in Citigroup 
common stock that was subject to a six-month sale restriction.Participants who satisfied the vesting and performance conditions for the KEPSP holdback payment were entitled to such payment equal to the product 
of (i) the lesser of cumulative pretax income of Citicorp for the initial 
performance period and cumulative pretax income of Citicorp for the initial 
performance period and the holdback period combined (generally, January
 1, 
2010 through December 31, 2013), and (ii) the participant™s applicable 

percentage, less the initial payment. The holdback payment will be paid 
after January 20, 2014 but no later than March 15, 2014. The holdback 
payment will be credited with notional interest during the holdback period. 
The holdback payment will be paid in cash; however, a portion of the awards 

will be paid in Citigroup common stock if required by regulatory authority. 

Regulators required that U.K. participants receive at least 50% of their initial 
payment and at least 50% of their holdback payment, if any, in shares of 

Citigroup common stock that will be subject to a six-month sale restriction. 
Clawbacks apply to the award.Independent risk function employees were not eligible to participate in the KEPSP, as the independent risk function participates in the determination 

of whether payouts will be made under the KEPSP. Instead, key employees 

in the independent risk function were eligible to receive deferred cash 
retention awards, which vest two-thirds on January 20, 2013 and one-third 
on January 20, 2014. The deferred cash awards incentivize key risk employees 
to contribute to the Company™s long-term profitability by ensuring that 

the Company™s risk profile is properly aligned with its long-term strategies, 

objectives and risk appetite, thereby aligning the employees™ interests with 
those of Company shareholders.On February 14, 2011, the Committee approved grants of awards under the 2011 KEPSP to certain executive officers, and on May 17, 2011 to 
the then-CEO Vikram Pandit. These awards had a performance period of 

January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012 and other terms of the awards are 
similar to the 2010 KEPSP. The KEPSP award granted to Mr.
 Pandit was 
cancelled upon his resignation in October 2012.Expense recognized in 2013 and 2012 in respect of the KEPSP was $78 million and $246 million, respectively.
Performance Share UnitsCertain executive officers were awarded a target number of performance 
share units (PSUs) on February 19, 2013 for performance in 2012, and to 
a broader group of executives on February 18, 2014, for performance in 
2013. PSUs will be earned only to the extent that Citigroup attains specified 
performance goals relating to Citigroup™s return on assets and relative total 
shareholder return against peers over the three-year period beginning with 
the year of award. The actual number of PSUs ultimately earned could vary 
from zero, if performance goals are not met, to as much as 150% of target, 
if performance goals are meaningfully exceeded. The value of each PSU is 
equal to the value of one share of Citi common stock. The value of the award 
will fluctuate with changes in Citigroup™s share price and the attainment of 
the specified performance goals for each award, until it is settled solely in 
cash after the end of the performance period.Variable Incentive CompensationCitigroup has various incentive plans globally that are used to motivate and 
reward performance primarily in the areas of sales, operational excellence 
and customer satisfaction. These programs are reviewed on a periodic basis to 
ensure that they are structured appropriately, aligned to shareholder interests 
and adequately risk balanced. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 
and 2011, Citigroup expensed $1.1 billion, $670 million and $1.0 billion, 
respectively, for these plans globally.1818. RETIREMENT BENEFITSPension and Postretirement PlansThe Company has several non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain U.S. employees and has various defined benefit pension 
and termination indemnity plans covering employees outside the United 
States. The U.S. qualified defined benefit plan was frozen effective January 1, 
2008 for most employees. Accordingly, no additional compensation-based 
contributions were credited to the cash balance portion of the plan for 
existing plan participants after 2007. However, certain employees covered 
under the prior final pay plan formula continue to accrue benefits. The 
Company also offers postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to 
certain eligible U.S. retired employees, as well as to certain eligible employees 
outside the United States.The Company also sponsors a number of noncontributory, nonqualified 
pension plans. These plans, which are unfunded, provide supplemental 
defined pension benefits to certain U.S. employees. With the exception of 
a few employees covered under the prior final average pay formulas, the 
benefits under these plans were frozen in prior years.The following table summarizes the components of net (benefit) expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s 

U.S. qualified and nonqualified pension plans, postretirement plans and 
plans outside the United States. Beginning in the second quarter of 2013, 
the Company utilizes a quarterly, rather than annual, measurement for 

the Significant Plans (as defined in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements). For All Other Plans (as defined in Note 1 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements), the Company will continue to utilize an annual 
measurement approach.Net (Benefit) ExpensePension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Qualified plans$8˛˜$210$Š$43
53838433146(863)šš(396)šš(2)šš(133)šš

ŠŠ’˛šŠŠ
(4)’˛š’˛š4(1)’˛ššŠ10495Š45214˛˚ŠŠŠ13˛˚Š(1)
Š8˛ŠŠNet qualified (benefit) expense
$(196)š’˜˚˜š$322$30$100Nonqualified plans expense
$46$Š$Š$Š
$(23)$Š$Š$3Total net (benefit) expense
$(173)šš$322$30$103’˛š‹
182ContributionsThe Company™s funding practice for U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is generally to fund to minimum funding requirements in accordance with 
applicable local laws and regulations. The Company may increase its 
contributions above the minimum required contribution, if appropriate. In 
addition, management has the ability to change its funding practices. For the U.S. pension plans, there were no required minimum cash contributions 
for 2013 or 2012. The following table summarizes the actual Company 
contributions for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, as well as 
estimated expected Company contributions for 2014. Expected contributions 
are subject to change since contribution decisions are affected by various 
factors, such as market performance and regulatory requirements.Pension plans
 (1)Postretirement plans
 (1)U.S. plans
 (2)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜
$Š$308$Š$251
5149525Total Company contributions
$51$357$52˛˛$256’˛š
’˜š
The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into 
net expense in 2014 are approximately $181 million and $3 million, 
respectively, for defined benefit pension plans. For postretirement plans, the 

estimated 2014 net actuarial loss and prior service cost amortizations are 
approximately $31 million and $(12) million, respectively.
The following table summarizes the funded status and amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Company™s U.S. 

qualified and nonqualified pension plans, postretirement plans and plans 
outside the United States.Net Amount RecognizedPension plans
Postretirement plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜Change in projected benefit obligationQualified plans
$13,268$7,399$1,072$2,002
(368)385Š818˛˜210Š43
53838433146Šš(28)Š(171)(671)(733)(253)š(617)
(661)š(296)š(85)š(64)šŠŠ13˛˚ŠŠ(57)šŠ(2)23(2)šŠ(3)
Š8˛ŠŠŠ(76)Š(4)Qualified plans$12,137$7,194$780$1,411˜”˚˚˜Nonqualified plans (2)$692$Š$Š$ŠProjected benefit obligation at year end$12,829$7,194$780$1,411˜”˚˚˜’˛š‹
’˜š183Pension plans
Postretirement plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜Change in plan assetsQualified plans
$12,656$7,154$50$1,497
(53)126321789(256)(1)(223)
Š35752256Š650ŠŠ(61)šŠŠ(661)š(302)š(122)š(64)šŠ(106)Š(15)Qualified plans$12,731$6,918$32$1,472Nonqualified plans (2)$Š$Š$Š$ŠPlan assets at fair value at year end
$12,731$6,918$32$1,472Funded status of the plansQualified plans (3)$593š$(276)š$(748)’˛”˚˜˜š$61šNonqualified plans (2)(692)šŠŠŠFunded status of the plans at year end$(99)š$(276)š$(748)’˛”˚˜˜š$61šNet amount recognizedQualified plans$593$709$Š$407
Šš(985)š(748)’˛”˚˜˜š(346)šQualified plans$593š$(276)š$(748)’˛”˚˜˜š$61šNonqualified plans (2)$(692)š$Š$Š$ŠNet amount recognized on the balance sheet$(99)š$(276)š$(748)’˛”˚˜˜š$61šAmounts recognized in Accumulated other  comprehensive income (loss)Qualified plans
$Š$(1)’˜š$Š$(1)’˛š
7(2)š1˛173(3,911)š(2,007)š129š(555)šQualified plans$(3,904)š$(2,010)š$130’˛˜˜š$(383)šNonqualified plans (2)$(226)š$Š$Š$ŠNet amount recognized in equityŠpretax$(4,130)š$(2,010)š$130’˛˜˜š$(383)šAccumulated benefit obligationQualified plans$12,122$6,652$780$1,411˜”˚˚˜Nonqualified plans (2)668ŠŠŠAccumulated benefit obligation at year end$12,790$6,652$780$1,411˜”˚˚˜’˛š‹
’˜š
184The following table shows the change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to pension and post-retirement benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Balance, January 1, net of tax
 (1)$(5,270)šš
(22)2,380šš
(1,084)
271
36074š
(666)Change, net of tax
$1,313ššBalance, December 31, net of tax
 (1)$(3,957)šš’˛š
Accumulated other 

comprehensive income (loss)’˜š

ˇ‹
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, for both qualified and nonqualified pension plans and for both funded and unfunded plans, the aggregate 
projected benefit obligation (PBO), the aggregate accumulated benefit 
obligation (ABO), and the aggregate fair value of plan assets are presented 
for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets 
and for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of 
plan assets as follows:PBO exceeds fair value of plan assets
ABO exceeds fair value plan assets
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
 (1)Non-U.S. plans
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜
$692$2,765$692$2,408
6682,3756682,090Š1,780Š1,468’˛š



””
At December 31, 2013, combined accumulated benefit obligations for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, excluding U.S. nonqualified plans, 
were less than plan assets by $0.9 billion. At December 31, 2012, combined 
accumulated benefit obligations for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, 
excluding U.S. nonqualified plans, were less than plan assets by $0.2 billion.Plan AssumptionsThe Company utilizes a number of assumptions to determine plan 
obligations and expense. Changes in one or a combination of these 
assumptions will have an impact on the Company™s pension and 
postretirement PBO, funded status and benefit expense. Changes in the plans™ 
funded status resulting from changes in the PBO and fair value of plan assets 
will have a corresponding impact on Accumulated other comprehensive 
income (loss).185Certain assumptions used in determining pension and postretirement benefit obligations and net benefit expenses for the Company™s plans are 
shown in the following table:At year end2013˜˚˛˜Discount rate−‹ƒ‹
’˛š4.75%Ÿ4.35
1.60 to 29.25ı
5.60
3.50 to 11.90ı
8.65Future compensation increase rate−‹ƒ‹
N/A‡™€
1.00 to 26.00ı
3.40Expected return on assets−‹ƒ‹
7.00
1.20 to 11.50ı
5.68
8.50 to 8.90ı
8.50’˛š†ˇ












ˇ


’˜š†ˇ









ˇ














During the year2013˜˚˛˜Discount rate−‹ƒ‹
3.90%/4.2 4.75%/4.80%/%Ÿ3.60/3.60 
4.40/4.30/
1.50 to 28.00ı
5.24
3.50 to 10.00ı
7.46Future compensation increase rate−‹ƒ‹
N/A‡™€
1.20 to 26.00ı
3.93Expected return on assets−‹ƒ‹
7.00
0.90 to 11.50ı
5.76
8.50 to 9.60ı
8.50’˛š



’˜š

˙ˇ

”

‹








186Discount RateThe discount rates for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans were selected 
by reference to a Citigroup-specific analysis using each plan™s specific 
cash flows and compared with high-quality corporate bond indices for 
reasonableness. Citigroup™s policy is to round to the nearest five hundredths 
of a percent. The discount rates for the non-U.S. pension and postretirement 
plans are selected by reference to high-quality corporate bond rates in 
countries that have developed corporate bond markets. However, where 
developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected 
by reference to local government bond rates with a premium added to reflect 
the additional risk for corporate bonds in certain countries.Expected Rate of ReturnThe Company determines its assumptions for the expected rate of return 
on plan assets for its U.S. pension and postretirement plans using a 
ﬁbuilding blockﬂ approach, which focuses on ranges of anticipated rates 
of return for each asset class. A weighted average range of nominal rates 
is then determined based on target allocations to each asset class. Market 
performance over a number of earlier years is evaluated covering a wide 
range of economic conditions to determine whether there are sound reasons 
for projecting any past trends.The Company considers the expected rate of return to be a long-term assessment of return expectations and does not anticipate changing this 
assumption unless there are significant changes in investment strategy 
or economic conditions. This contrasts with the selection of the discount 
rate and certain other assumptions, which are reconsidered annually in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.The expected rate of return for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans was 7.00% at December 31, 2013, 7.00% at December 31, 2012, and 7.50% 
at December 31, 2011. The expected return on assets reflects the expected 
annual appreciation of the plan assets and reduces the Company™s annual 

pension expense. The expected return on assets is deducted from the sum 
of service cost, interest cost and other components of pension expense to 
arrive at the net pension (benefit) expense. Net pension (benefit) expense for 
the U.S. pension plans for 2013, 2012 and 2011 reflects deductions of $863 
million, $897 million and $890 million of expected returns, respectively.
The following table shows the expected rate of return used in determining the 
Company™s pension expense compared to the actual rate of return on plan assets 

during 2013, 2012 and 2011 for the U.S. pension and postretirement plans:2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
’˛š7.00%ŸŸ
’˜š6.00%˛˛‹˚˚Ÿ˛˛‹˚˚Ÿ’˛š†ˇ
’˜š
For the non-U.S. plans, pension expense for 2013 was reduced by the expected return of $396 million, compared with the actual return of $(130) 
million. Pension expense for 2012 and 2011 was reduced by expected returns 
of $399 million and $422 million, respectively. Actual returns were lower in 

2013, but higher in 2012 and 2011 than the expected returns in those years.Sensitivities of Certain Key Assumptions
The following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-
percentage-point change in the discount rate:
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛−‹ƒ‹
$16
(52)šš
In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛−‹ƒ‹
$(57)šš
79Since the U.S. qualified pension plan was frozen, the majority of the prospective service cost has been eliminated and the gain/loss amortization 
period was changed to the life expectancy for inactive participants. As a 
result, pension expense for the U.S. qualified pension plan is driven more 
by interest costs than service costs, and an increase in the discount rate 
would increase pension expense, while a decrease in the discount rate would 
decrease pension expense.The following tables summarize the effect on pension expense of a one-percentage-point change in the expected rates of return:One-percentage-point increaseIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛−‹ƒ‹
$(123)’˛˜˚šš
(68)ššOne-percentage-point decreaseIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛−‹ƒ‹
$123˛˜˚
68Health Care Cost-Trend Rate

Assumed health care cost-trend rates were as follows:2013˜˚˛˜Health care cost increase rate for U.S. plans
8.00%Ÿ
5.00ł
2020˜˚˜˚A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost-trend rates would have the following effects on postretirement expense:One-percentage- point increaseOne- percentage- point decreaseIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜†ˇ

$1˜$(1)’˛š†ˇ

24(19)š187Plan AssetsCitigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ asset allocations for the U.S. plans at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the target allocations for 2014 by 
asset category based on asset fair values, are as follows:Target asset
 allocationU.S. pension assets
 at December 31,U.S. postretirement assets
 at December 31,Asset category
 (1)2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜Ÿ19%Ÿ19%Ÿ42%Ÿ42%Ÿ
5%Ÿ5%Ÿ
11%˛˛Ÿ11%˛˛Ÿ23%˜˜Ÿ23%˜˜ŸTotal
100%˛˚˚Ÿ100%˛˚˚Ÿ’˛š””

‹
’˜š
Third-party investment managers and advisors provide their services to Citigroup™s U.S. pension and postretirement plans. Assets are rebalanced as 

Citi™s Pension Plan Investment Committee deems appropriate. Citigroup™s 

investment strategy, with respect to its assets, is to maintain a globally 

diversified investment portfolio across several asset classes that, when 
combined with Citigroup™s contributions to the plans, will maintain the 

plans™ ability to meet all required benefit obligations.Citigroup™s pension and postretirement plans™ weighted-average asset 
allocations for the non-U.S. plans and the actual ranges at the end of 2013 
and 2012, and the weighted-average target allocations for 2014 by asset 
category based on asset fair values are as follows:Non-U.S. pension plans
Weighted-average
 target asset allocation
Actual range at December 31,Weighted-average
 at December 31,Asset category
 (1)2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜Ÿ0 - 69%Ÿ20%Ÿ0 - 9972
˛0 - 191˛0 - 1007˛˛Total
˛˚˚Ÿ100%˛˚˚ŸNon-U.S. postretirement plans
Weighted-average
 target asset allocation
Actual range at December 31,Weighted-average
 at December 31,Asset category 
(1)2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜Ÿ0 - 41%Ÿ41%Ÿ51 - 100510 - 88Total
˛˚˚Ÿ100%˛˚˚Ÿ’˛š”
188Fair Value DisclosureFor information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 
2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methodology utilized by 

the Company, see Note 1 and Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Certain investments may transfer between the fair value hierarchy classifications during the year due to changes in valuation methodology and 
pricing sources. There were no significant transfers of investments between 
Level 1 and Level 2 during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.Plan assets by detailed asset categories and the fair value hierarchy are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
 (1)Fair value measurement at December 31, 2013
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3Total
−‹ƒ‹
$864$Š$Š$864
441ŠŠ441203ŠŠ203Š895Š895−‹ƒ‹›
1,112ŠŠ1,112−‹ƒ‹
Š91Š91−‹ƒ‹
Š1,385Š1,385
Š344Š344
Š403Š403
Š137Š137Š2,0141,1803,194Š61Š61
Š64Š64ŠŠ9191
ŠŠ2,1062,106
8601Š609Š100157257›
$2,628$6,095$3,534$12,257$107$957$Š$1,064
Š4952101Total assets
$2,735$7,101$3,586$13,422
$(9)$(650)$Š$(659)Total net assets
$2,726$6,451$3,586$12,763’˛š

‹
189In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
(1)Fair value measurement at December 31, 2012
Asset categoriesLevel 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
−‹ƒ‹

−‹ƒ‹›
−‹ƒ‹
˛˛˜˛˛˜−‹ƒ‹






›

Total assets

’˛˚šššTotal net assets
’˛š

‹
190In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Fair value measurement at December 31, 2013
Asset categories Level 1
Level 2
Level 3Total
−‹ƒ‹
$6$13$Š$19
117292494582423,593Š3,835722Š29−‹ƒ‹
Š392Š392
2,559232Š2,791
1107805895ŠŠ1111
31Š4Š13233
42ŠŠ42712202221›
$3,093$5,338$299$8,730$92$4$Š$96Total assets
$3,185$5,342$299$8,826
$Š$(436)$Š$(436)Total net assets
$3,185$4,906$299$8,390In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Fair value measurement at December 31, 2012
Asset categoriesLevel 1Level 2Level 3Total
−‹ƒ‹
˛˜˛˜
−‹ƒ‹›
˛˛−‹ƒ‹



˛˛˛˛
›
˜”˛˚˜Total assets
191Level 3 Roll ForwardThe reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances during the period for Level 3 assets are as follows:In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2012
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, sales, and
 issuancesTransfers in
 and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2013
š$1,180šš91
’˛˚ššš2,106157Total investments
šš$3,534
52Total assets
šš$3,586In millions of dollarsU.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categoriesBeginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2011
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, sales, and
 issuancesTransfers in
 and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2012
−‹ƒ‹
š
š−‹ƒ‹
˛š
’˛š˛šš
š˛˜˛˛˜šTotal investments
š
˜˜˛šTotal assets
š˛˛˜192In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categories Beginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2012
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, sales, and
 issuancesTransfers in
 and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2013

š$49
šŠ
’˛š˜5˛š11’˛š32’˜˚š202Total investments
’˜šš$299šŠTotal assets
’˜šš$299In millions of dollarsNon-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans
Asset categories Beginning Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2011
Realized gains (losses)Unrealized gains (losses)Purchases, sales, and
 issuancesTransfers in
 and/or out of Level 3Ending Level 3 fair value at
 Dec. 31, 2012

’˛˚š’˜˜š
’˛š
š˜˜˛˜˛ššTotal investments
šTotal assets
šInvestment StrategyThe Company™s global pension and postretirement funds™ investment strategies are to invest in a prudent manner for the exclusive purpose of 
providing benefits to participants. The investment strategies are targeted 
to produce a total return that, when combined with the Company™s 
contributions to the funds, will maintain the funds™ ability to meet all 
required benefit obligations. Risk is controlled through diversification 
of asset types and investments in domestic and international equities, 
fixed-income securities and cash and short-term investments. The target 
asset allocation in most locations outside the U.S. is primarily in equity 
and debt securities. These allocations may vary by geographic region and 
country depending on the nature of applicable obligations and various other 
regional considerations. The wide variation in the actual range of plan 
asset allocations for the funded non-U.S. plans is a result of differing local 
statutory requirements and economic conditions. For example, in certain 
countries local law requires that all pension plan assets must be invested in 
fixed-income investments, government funds, or local-country securities.Significant Concentrations of Risk in Plan AssetsThe assets of the Company™s pension plans are diversified to limit the impact 
of any individual investment. The U.S. qualified pension plan is diversified 
across multiple asset classes, with publicly traded fixed income, hedge funds, 
publicly traded equity, and private equity representing the most significant 
asset allocations. Investments in these four asset classes are further diversified 
across funds, managers, strategies, vintages, sectors and geographies, 
depending on the specific characteristics of each asset class. The pension 
assets for the Company™s largest non-U.S. plans are primarily invested in 
publicly traded fixed income and publicly traded equity securities.193Oversight and Risk Management PracticesThe framework for the Company™s pensions oversight process includes monitoring of retirement plans by plan fiduciaries and/or management 
at the global, regional or country level, as appropriate. Independent risk 
management contributes to the risk oversight and monitoring for the 
Company™s U.S. qualified pension plan and largest non-U.S. pension plans. 
Although the specific components of the oversight process are tailored to the 
requirements of each region, country and plan, the following elements are 
common to the Company™s monitoring and risk management process:
allocation reviews;periodic monitoring of funding levels and funding ratios;periodic monitoring of compliance with asset allocation guidelines;periodic monitoring of asset class and/or investment manager 
performance against benchmarks; andperiodic risk capital analysis and stress testing.Estimated Future Benefit Payments The Company expects to pay the following estimated benefit payments in future years:Pension plans
Postretirement benefit plans
In millions of dollarsU.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
U.S. plans
Non-U.S. plans
Prescription DrugsIn December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and 
Modernization Act of 2003 (Act of 2003) was enacted. The Act of 2003 
established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare known as ﬁMedicare 
Part D,ﬂ and a federal subsidy to sponsors of U.S. retiree health care benefit 
plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare 
Part D. The benefits provided to certain participants are at least actuarially 
equivalent to Medicare Part D and, accordingly, the Company is entitled to 
a subsidy.The expected subsidy reduced the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) by approximately $4 million and $93 million as of 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and the postretirement expense 

by approximately $3 million and $9 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

The reduction in the expected subsidy was due to the Company™s adoption of 

the Employee Group Waiver Plan, as described
 below.
The following table shows the estimated future benefit payments without the effect of the subsidy and the amounts of the expected subsidy in 
future years:Expected U.S. postretirement benefit paymentsIn millions of dollarsBefore Medicare Part D subsidy
Medicare Part D subsidy
After Medicare
 Part D subsidy
˜The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Act of 2010) were 

signed into law in the U.S. in March 2010. One provision that impacted 
Citigroup was the elimination of the tax deductibility for benefits paid 
that are related to the Medicare Part D subsidy, starting in 2013. Citigroup 

was required to recognize the full accounting impact in 2010, the period 
in which the Act of 2010 was signed. As a result, there was a $45 million 
reduction in deferred tax assets with a corresponding charge to earnings from 
continuing operations.Certain provisions of the Act of 2010 improved the Medicare Part D option known as the Employer Group Waiver Plan (EGWP) with respect to the 

Medicare Part D subsidy. The EGWP provides prescription drug benefits that 

are more cost effective for Medicare-eligible participants and large employers. 
Effective April 1, 2013, the Company began sponsoring and implementing 
an EGWP for eligible retirees. The expected Company subsidy received under 
EGWP during 2013 was $10.5 million.The other provisions of the Act of 2010 are not expected to have a significant impact on Citigroup™s pension and postretirement
 plans.194Postemployment PlansThe Company sponsors U.S. postemployment plans that provide income continuation and health and welfare benefits to certain eligible U.S. 
employees on long-term disability.As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the plans™ funded status recognized in the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet was $(252) million and 

$(501) million, respectively. The amounts recognized in 
Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 
$46 million and $(185) million, respectively. During 2013, the Company 

made changes to its postemployment plans that limit the period for which 
future disabled employees are eligible for continued company subsidized 
medical benefits. These changes resulted in the decreases in the Company™s 

obligations, as shown above.The following table summarizes the components of net expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the Company™s U.S. 

postemployment plans.Net expenseIn millions of dollars201320122011Service related expense

$20˜˜10˛˜
(3)17Total service related expense
$44Non-service related expense (benefit)
$(14)Total net expense
$30The following table summarizes certain assumptions used in determining the postemployment benefit obligations and net benefit expenses for the Company™s U.S. postemployment
 plans.20132012Discount rate4.05%ŸHealth care cost increase rate8.00%Ÿ
5.00ł
2020˜˚˜˚Early Retiree Reinsurance ProgramThe Company participates in the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program 
(ERRP), which provides federal government reimbursement to eligible 
employers to cover a portion of the health benefit costs associated with 
early retirees. Of the $8 million the Company received in reimbursements, 
approximately $3 million and $5 million were used to reduce the 
health benefit costs for certain eligible employees for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.Defined Contribution PlansThe Company sponsors defined contribution plans in the U.S. and in certain 
non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered in accordance with 
local laws. The most significant defined contribution plan is the Citigroup 
401(k) Plan sponsored by the Company in the U.S.Under the Citigroup 401(k) Plan, eligible U.S. employees received matching contributions of up to 6% of their eligible compensation for 2013 
and 2012, subject to statutory limits. Additionally, for eligible employees 

whose eligible compensation is $100,000 or less, a fixed contribution of 
up to 2% of eligible compensation is provided. All Company contributions 
are invested according to participants™ individual elections. The pretax 
expense associated with this plan amounted to approximately $394 million, 
$384 million and $374 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
1959. INCOME TAXESDetails of the Company™s income tax provision for the years ended December 31 are presented in the table below:Income TaxesIn millions of dollars2013 ˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Current$(260)šš3,788
(41)Total current income taxes
$3,487Deferred
$2,550šš(716)
546šTotal deferred income taxes
$2,380ššProvision (benefit) for income tax on 
 continuing operations before  noncontrolling interests (1)$5,867

(244)š˛˜

Šš

5šš(1,353)28
625š698ššIncome taxes before noncontrolling interests$5,626š’˛š



‹
 Tax Rate
The reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the Company™s 
effective income tax rate applicable to income from continuing operations 
(before noncontrolling interests and the cumulative effect of accounting 
changes) for the years ended December 31 was as follows:2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Federal statutory rate
35.0%ŸŸ
1.7
(2.2)šš(0.6)š†ˇ
(0.3)’˚‹˛š˜‹˚
Šš›
(4.2)šš”
0.7˚‹˜˚‹˜Effective income tax rate30.1%˚‹˛ŸŸ’˛š



ł
’˜š

Œ›€
As set forth in the table above, Citi™s effective tax rate for 2013 was 30.1%, 
which included a tax benefit of $127 million for the resolution of certain tax 
items during the year. This compared to an effective tax rate for 2012 of 0.1% 

due to the effect of permanent differences on the comparably lower level of 
pretax income. 2012 included a $925 million tax benefit, also related to the 
resolution of certain tax audit items during the year.
As previously disclosed, during 2013, Citi decided that earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries would no longer be indefinitely reinvested outside the 
U.S. (as asserted under ASC 740, Income Taxes
). This decision increased 
Citi™s 2013 tax provision on these foreign subsidiary earnings to the higher 

U.S. tax rate and thus increased Citi™s effective tax rate for 2013 and reduced 

its after-tax earnings. For additional information on Citi™s foreign earnings, 

see ﬁForeign Earningsﬂ below.
196Deferred Income TaxesDeferred income taxes at December 31 related to the following:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Deferred tax assets$8,356
4,067
1,806
6,910
4,409
736›
26,097666Š2,734$55,781£
ŠDeferred tax assets after valuation allowance
$55,781Deferred tax liabilities
$(455)šŠš
(1,076)š(811)
(640)š
$(2,982)šNet deferred tax assets$52,799Unrecognized Tax BenefitsThe following is a roll-forward of the Company™s unrecognized tax benefits.In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Total unrecognized tax benefits at January
 1$3,109
58
251
(716)šš
(1,115)š’˛˛š
(15)šš
2’˜šTotal unrecognized tax benefits at December
 31$1,574The total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 that, if recognized, would affect Citi™s effective tax rate, 

are $0.8 billion, $1.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. The remaining 

uncertain tax positions have offsetting amounts in other jurisdictions or are 
temporary differences, except for $0.4 billion at December 31, 2013, which 
would be booked directly to Retained earnings.Interest and penalties (not included in ﬁunrecognized tax benefitsﬂ  above) are a component of the Provision for income taxes.2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛In millions of dollarsPretaxNet of tax›
˛$492$315›
(108)(72)›
277173’˛š
‹

˜˚˛˛‹Citi currently is under audit by the Internal Revenue Service and other major taxing jurisdictions around the world. It is thus reasonably possible 
that significant changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits 
may occur within the next 12 months, although Citi does not expect such 
audits to result in amounts that would cause a significant change to its 
effective tax rate, other than as discussed below.
 Citi expects to conclude its IRS audit for the 2009-2011 cycle within the next 12 months. The gross uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2013 for 
the items that may be resolved are as much as $520 million. Because of the number and nature of the issues remaining to be resolved, the potential tax 
benefit to continuing operations could be anywhere from $0 to $150 million, 
while the potential tax benefit to retained earnings could be from $0 to 
$350 million. In addition, Citi may conclude certain state and local tax 
audits within the next 12 months. The gross uncertain tax positions at 
December 31, 2013 are as much as $170 million. The potential tax benefit 
to continuing operations could be anywhere between $0 and $110 million, 
excluding interest.197The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate and the earliest tax year subject to examination:JurisdictionTax
 year
ł
˜˚˛˜
˜˚˛˚Foreign EarningsForeign pretax earnings approximated $13.1 billion in 2013, $14.7 billion 
in 2012 and $13.1 billion in 2011 (of which $0.1 billion, $0.0 billion 
and $0.1 billion, respectively, are in Discontinued operations). As a U.S. 
corporation, Citigroup and its U.S. subsidiaries are subject to U.S. taxation 
on all foreign pretax earnings earned by a foreign branch. Pretax earnings of 
a foreign subsidiary or affiliate are subject to U.S. taxation when effectively 
repatriated. The Company provides income taxes on the undistributed 
earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries except to the extent that such earnings are 
indefinitely reinvested outside the United States.At December 31, 2013, $43.8 billion of accumulated undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries was indefinitely invested. At the existing 
U.S. federal income tax rate, additional taxes (net of U.S. foreign tax 
credits) of $11.7 billion would have to be provided if such earnings were 
remitted currently. The current year™s effect on the income tax expense 

from continuing operations is included in the ﬁForeign income tax rate 
differentialﬂ line in the reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the 
Company™s effective income tax rate in the table
 above.Income taxes are not provided for the Company™s ﬁsavings bank base year 
bad debt reservesﬂ that arose before 1988, because under current U.S. tax 
rules, such taxes will become payable only to the extent such amounts are 
distributed in excess of limits prescribed by federal law. At December 31, 2013, 

the amount of the base year reserves totaled approximately $358 million 
(subject to a tax of $125 million).Deferred Tax Assets
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, Citi had no valuation allowance on 
its DTAs.In billions of dollarsJurisdiction/componentDTA balance
 December 31, 2013
Œ›

U.S. federal
 (1)
$1.419.6˜˜‹˚
2.521.5˜˜‹˚Š˚‹˛Total U.S. federal
$45.0State and localł
$1.4
0.52.4Total state and local
$4.3Foreign

$0.2˚‹˜
1.2˛‹˜2.1Total foreign
$3.5Total
$52.8’˛š




Œ›
’˜š”











198The following table summarizes the amounts of tax carry-forwards and their expiration dates as of December 31, 2013: In billions of dollarsAmountYear of expiration
December 31, 
 2013
˜˚˛˜U.S. tax return foreign tax credit 
 carry-forwards
$Š4.75.21.2˜˚˜˚3.1˜˚˜˛1.4˜˚˜˜3.30.7Total U.S. tax return foreign tax credit 
 carry-forwards
$19.6˜˜‹˚U.S. tax return general business credit 
 carry-forwards
$Š0.40.40.40.40.50.4Total U.S. tax return general business credit 
 carry-forwards
$2.5U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL carry-forwards
$0.2˚‹˜0.1˚‹˛0.31.71.7Total U.S. subsidiary separate federal NOL
  carry-forwards
 (2)$4.0New York State NOL carry-forwards
$0.1˚‹˛6.52.00.10.9Total New York State NOL carry-forwards
 (2)$9.6New York City NOL carry-forwards
$0.1˚‹˛3.91.50.6˚‹˜Total New York City NOL carry-forwards
 (2)$6.1APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards
£
$0.2˚‹˜Total APB 23 subsidiary NOL carry-forwards
$0.2˚‹˜’˛š

’˜šWhile Citi™s net total DTAs decreased year-over-year, the time remaining 
for utilization has shortened, given the passage of time, particularly with respect to the FTC component of the DTAs. Realization of the DTAs will 

continue to be driven by Citi™s ability to generate U.S. taxable earnings in the 

carry-forward periods, including through actions that optimize Citi™s U.S. 

taxable earnings.Although realization is not assured, Citi believes that the realization of the recognized net DTAs of $52.8
 billion at December 31, 2013 is more 
likely than not based upon expectations as to future taxable income in the 
jurisdictions in which the DTAs arise and available tax planning strategies 

(as defined in ASC 740, Income Taxes
) that would be implemented, if 
necessary, to prevent a carry-forward from expiring. In general, Citi would 

need to generate approximately $98 billion of U.S. taxable income during the 
FTC carry-forward periods to prevent this most time sensitive component of 
Citi™s DTAs from expiring. Citi™s net DTAs will decline primarily as additional 

domestic GAAP taxable income is generated.Citi has concluded that two components of positive evidence support the full realization of its DTAs. First, Citi forecasts sufficient U.S. taxable income 

in the carryforward periods, exclusive of ASC 740 tax planning strategies. 
Citi™s forecasted taxable income, which will continue to be subject to overall 

market and global economic conditions, incorporates geographic business 
forecasts and taxable income adjustments to those forecasts (e.g., U.S. 
tax exempt income, loan loss reserves deductible for U.S. tax reporting in 
subsequent years), and actions intended to optimize its U.S. taxable earnings.Second, Citi has sufficient tax planning strategies available to it under ASC 740 that would be implemented to prevent a carry-forward from 
expiring. These strategies include: repatriating low taxed foreign source 
earnings for which an assertion that the earnings have been indefinitely 
reinvested has not been made; accelerating U.S. taxable income into, or 
deferring U.S. tax deductions out of, the latter years of the carry-forward 
period (e.g., selling appreciated intangible assets, electing straight-line 
depreciation); accelerating deductible temporary differences outside the 
U.S.; and selling certain assets that produce tax-exempt income, while 
purchasing assets that produce fully taxable income. In addition, the sale 
or restructuring of certain businesses can produce significant U.S. taxable 
income within the relevant carry-forward periods.199 Based upon the foregoing discussion, Citi believesthe U.S. federal and New York state and city NOL carry-forward period of 20 years provides 
enough time to fully utilize the DTAs pertaining to the existing NOL carry-

forwards and any NOL that would be created by the reversal of the future net 
deductions that have not yet been taken on a tax return.The U.S. FTC carry-forward period is 10 years and represents the most time-sensitive component of Citi™s
 DTAs. Utilization of FTCs in any year is 

restricted to 35% of foreign source taxable income in that year. However, 

overall domestic losses that Citi has incurred of approximately $64 billion as 
of December 31, 2013 are allowed to be reclassified as foreign source income 
to the extent of 50% of domestic source income produced in subsequent years. 
Such resulting foreign source income would cover the FTCs being carried 
forward. As such, Citi believes the foreign source taxable income limitation 
will not be an impediment to the FTC carry-forward usage, as long as Citi 
can generate sufficient domestic taxable income within the 10-year carry-
forward period.As noted in the tables above, Citi™s FTC carry-forwards were $19.6
 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared to $22.0 billion as of December 31, 2012. 
This decrease represented $2.4 billion of the $2.5 billion decrease in Citi™s 

overall DTAs during 2013. Citi believes that it will generate sufficient 

U.S. taxable income within the 10-year carry-forward period referenced 
above to be able to fully utilize the FTC carry-forward, in addition to any 
FTCs produced in such period, which must be used prior to any carry-
forward utilization.20010. EARNINGS PER SHAREThe following is a reconciliation of the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) computations for the years ended December 31:In millions, except shares and per-share amounts
2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˝˙˛ˆIncome from continuing operations before attribution of noncontrolling interests$13,630ˇˇ
227Net income from continuing operations (for EPS purposes)$13,403ˇˇ
270ˆ
Š’’Citigroup™s net income
$13,673ˇˇ
˝˙˜ˆ194˜‘˜‘Net income available to common shareholders
$13,479ˇˇ
˝
263˛‘‘Net income allocated to common shareholders for basic EPS$13,216ˇˇ
˝
˝

1˛˛˛˘Net income allocated to common shareholders for diluted EPS$13,217ˇˇWeighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to basic EPS
3,035.8
‰
˝˙⁄ˆŠ5.3’0.5˚−‘Š˚−˛˚−˛Adjusted weighted-average common shares outstanding applicable to diluted EPS3,041.6Basic earnings per share˝(6)
$4.27ˇˇ⁄−˘˛
0.09˙˚−˚˜ˆ˚−˚˜Net income$4.35ˇˇ⁄−˘⁄Diluted earnings per share˝(6)
$4.26ˇˇ⁄−‘˚
0.09˙˚−˚˜ˆ˚−˚˜Net income$4.35ˇˇ⁄−‘⁄˙˛ˆ˝
˝˜˚˛˛−˙˜ˆ˝˝
˝˙⁄ˆ˝‰
˝

˝‰
˝˜˚˛˛−˝
˝
˝˝‡

‡
˝Œ˝‰‰

‡˝˜˛−˚
˝˝‡


˙‘ˆ˝
˝201
11.
 
FEDERAL FUNDS, SECURITIES BORROWED, 
L
O
A
N
E
D
 
A
N
D
 
S
U
B
J
E
C
T
 
T
O
 
R
E
P
U
R
C
H
A
S
E
 
AGREEMENTS
Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
agreements to resell
, at their respective carrying values, consisted of the 
following at December
 
31:
In millions of dollars
2013
˜˚˛˜

$
20
ˇ


136,649


120,368

Total
$
257,037
ˇ

Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchase
, at their respective carrying values, consisted of 
the following at
 
December
 
31:
In millions of dollars
2013
˜˚˛˜

$
910
ˇ


175,691


26,911

Total
$
203,512
ˇ

The resale and repurchase agreements represent collateralized financing 
transactions. The Company executes these transactions through its broker-
dealer subsidiaries to facilitate customer matched-book activity and to 
efficiently fund a portion of the Company™s trading inventory. Transactions 
executed by the Company™s bank subsidiaries primarily facilitate customer 
financing
 
activity.
It is the Company™s policy to take possession of the underlying collateral, 
monitor its market value relative to the amounts due under the agreements 
and, when necessary, require prompt transfer of additional collateral in order 
to maintain contractual margin protection. Collateral typically consists of 
government and government-agency securities, corporate and municipal 
bonds, and mortgage-backed and other asset-backed
 
securities.
The resale and repurchase agreements are generally documented 
under industry standard agreements that allow the prompt close-out of 
all transactions (including the liquidation of securities held) and the 
offsetting of obligations to return cash or securities by the non-defaulting 
party, following a payment or other type of default under the relevant 
master agreement. Events of default generally include: (i)
 
failure to deliver 
cash or securities as required under the transaction, (ii)
 
failure to provide 
or return cash or securities as used for margining purposes, (iii)
 
breach 
of representation, (iv)
 
cross-default to another transaction entered into 
among the parties, or, in some cases, their affiliates, and (v)
 
a repudiation 
of obligations under the agreement. The counterparty that receives the 
securities in these transactions is generally unrestricted in its use of the 
securities, with the exception of transactions executed on a tri-party
 
basis.
The majority of the resale and repurchase agreements is recorded at fair 
value, as described in Note
 
25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 
remaining portion is carried at the amount of cash initially advanced or 
received, plus accrued interest, as specified in the respective
 
agreements.
The securities borrowing and lending agreements also represent 
collateralized financing transactions similar to the resale and repurchase 
agreements. Collateral typically consists of government and government-
agency securities and corporate debt and equity
 
securities.
Similar to the resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowing 
and lending agreements are generally documented under industry standard 
agreements that allow the prompt close-out of all transactions (including 
the liquidation of securities held) and the offsetting of obligations to return 
cash or securities by the non-defaulting party, following a payment or other 
default by the other party under the relevant master agreement. Events 
of default and rights to use securities under the securities borrowing and 
lending agreements are similar to the resale and repurchase agreements 
referenced
 
above.
A majority of securities borrowing and lending agreements is recorded 
at the amount of cash advanced or received. The remaining portion is 
recorded at fair value as the Company elected the fair value option for 
certain securities borrowed and loaned portfolios, as described in Note
 
26 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. With respect to securities loaned, 
the Company receives cash collateral in an amount generally in excess 
of the market value of the securities loaned. The Company monitors the 
market value of securities borrowed and securities loaned on a daily basis 
and obtains or posts additional collateral in order to maintain contractual 
margin
 
protection.
The enforceability of offsetting rights incorporated in the master netting 
agreements for resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing 
and lending agreements is evidenced to the extent that a supportive legal 
opinion has been obtained from counsel of recognized standing which 
provides the requisite level of certainty regarding the enforceability of these 
agreements and that the exercise of rights by the non-defaulting party to 
terminate and close-out transactions on a net basis under these agreements 
will not be stayed, or avoided under applicable law upon an event of default 
including bankruptcy, insolvency or similar
 
proceeding.
A legal opinion may not have been sought or obtained for certain 
jurisdictions where local law is silent or sufficiently ambiguous to determine 
the enforceability of offsetting rights or where adverse case law or conflicting 
regulation may cast doubt on the enforceability of such rights. In some 
jurisdictions and for some counterparty types, the insolvency law for a 
particular counterparty type may be nonexistent or unclear as overlapping 
regimes may exist. For example, this may be the case for certain sovereigns, 
municipalities, central banks and U.S. pension
 
plans.
202The following tables present the gross and net resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending agreements and the related offsetting amount permitted under ASC 210-20-45, as of December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012. The tables also include amounts related to financial 
instruments that are not permitted to be offset under ASC 210-20-45 but would be eligible for offsetting to the extent an event of default occurred 
and a legal opinion supporting enforceability of the offsetting rights has 
been obtained. Remaining exposures continue to be secured by financial 
collateral, but the Company may not have sought or been able to obtain a 
legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the offsetting right.As of December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsGross amounts of recognized assetsGross amounts offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (1)Net amounts of assets included on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet (2)Amounts not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but eligible for offsetting upon counterparty default
 (3)Net amounts (4)
$179,894$43,245$136,649$105,226$31,423
120,368Š120,36826,72893,640Total
$300,262$43,245$257,017$131,954$125,063 In millions of dollarsGross amounts of recognized liabilitiesGross amounts offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (1)Net amounts of liabilities included 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet (2)Amounts not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but eligible for offsetting upon counterparty default
 (3)Net amounts (4)
$218,936$43,245$175,691$80,082$95,609
26,911Š26,9113,83323,078Total
$245,847$43,245$202,602$83,915$118,687˝˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollars˝˝

˝˙˛ˆ˝˝
˝˙˜ˆ


˝˙⁄ˆ˝
ˇˇˇˇˇ
’‰
ˇˇˇˇˇ In millions of dollars˝
˝

˝˙˛ˆ˝

˝˙˜ˆ


˝˙⁄ˆ˝
ˇˇˇˇˇ
’‰
ˇˇˇˇˇ˙˛ˆ˝
˙˜ˆ˝
˝
˙⁄ˆ˝


˝˝
˝20312. BROKERAGE RECEIVABLES AND BROKERAGE PAYABLESThe Company has receivables and payables for financial instruments sold 
to and purchased from brokers, dealers and customers, which arise in the 
ordinary course of business. The Company is exposed to risk of loss from the 
inability of brokers, dealers or customers to pay for purchases or to deliver the 
financial instruments sold, in which case the Company would have to sell or 
purchase the financial instruments at prevailing market prices. Credit risk 
is reduced to the extent that an exchange or clearing organization acts as a 
counterparty to the transaction and replaces the broker, dealer or customer 
in question.The Company seeks to protect itself from the risks associated with customer activities by requiring customers to maintain margin collateral 
in compliance with regulatory and internal guidelines. Margin levels are 
monitored daily, and customers deposit additional collateral as required. 

Where customers cannot meet collateral requirements, the Company will 
liquidate sufficient underlying financial instruments to bring the customer 
into compliance with the required margin level.Exposure to credit risk is impacted by market volatility, which may impair 
the ability of clients to satisfy their obligations to the Company. Credit limits 

are established and closely monitored for customers and for brokers and 
dealers engaged in forwards, futures and other transactions deemed to be 
credit sensitive.Brokerage receivables and Brokerage payables consisted of the following at December 31:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜
$5,811ˇ
19,863Total brokerage receivables
 (1)$25,674ˇ
$34,751ˇ
18,956Total brokerage payables
 (1)$53,707ˇ˙˛ˆ˝˝
13. TRADING ACCOUNT ASSETS AND LIABILITIESTrading account assets and Trading account liabilities, at fair value, 
consisted of the following at December 31:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Trading account assets

˝˙˛ˆŠ−ƒ−
$23,955ˇ1,4227211,211
723‘˚˘2,574‰
$30,606ˇŠ−ƒ−˝‰
Š−ƒ−˝‰‡
$13,537ˇ
1,300‰˝‰
$14,837ˇ
$3,207ˇ74,856
30,534
˝˙˜ˆ52,82161,776˝˙˛ˆ5,616˝˙⁄ˆ11,675Total trading account assets
$285,928ˇTrading account liabilities


$61,508ˇ
˙˜ˆ47,254Total trading account liabilities
$108,762ˇ˙˛ˆ˝˝
˝‡™




˝

˝
˙˜ˆ˝
˝


˝
˙⁄ˆ˝
˝

˝

˝20414. INVESTMENTSOverviewIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜
$286,511ˇ
˝˙˛ˆ10,599
˝˙˜ˆ4,705
˝˙⁄ˆ7,165Total investments
$308,980ˇ˙˛ˆ˝
˝˙˜ˆ˝
˝˙⁄ˆ˝
˝−
The following table presents interest and dividends on investments for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛‰
$5,750ˇˇ
732437⁄⁄⁄⁄˛˘Total interest and dividends
$6,919ˇˇThe following table presents realized gains and losses on all investments for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. The gross realized investment losses exclude losses from OTTI:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛$1,606ˇˇ(858)ˆˆNet realized gains$748ˇˇThe Company has sold various debt securities that were classified as HTM. These sales were in response to a significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuers or securities. In addition, certain securities 
were reclassified to AFS investments in response to significant credit deterioration and, because the Company intends to sell the securities, 
recorded OTTI on the securities. The following table sets forth, for the periods 
indicated, gain (loss) on HTM securities sold, securities reclassified to AFS 
and OTTI recorded on AFS securities reclassified.In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛
$935ˇˇ(128)ˆˆ‹Łƒ
989’‹Łƒ
$(156)ˇˆˇ’205Securities Available-for-SaleThe amortized cost and fair value of AFS securities at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows:2013˜˚˛˜In millions of dollarsAmortized costGross unrealized gains (1)Gross unrealized losses (1)Fair
 value
˝˝˝˝˙˛ˆ˝˝˝˙˛ˆ˝Debt securities AFS
˝˙˜ˆŠ−ƒ−
$42,494$391$888$41,997ˇˇˇ˛‘⁄ˇ332332˛’8410Š94˛’’˛12ŠŠ12’’’’
9,97695410,067’45568453˛‘⁄‰
$53,054$504$903$52,655ˇˇˇ˛‘‘ˇŠ−ƒ−˝‰
Š−ƒ−˝‰‡
$68,891$476$147$69,220ˇˇˇ˛‘ˇ
18,3201236718,376˜⁄˘‰˝‰
$87,211$599$214$87,596ˇˇˇ˜˚ˇ
˝˙⁄ˆ$20,761$184$2,005$18,940ˇˇ˛⁄˜ˇˇ96,74540367796,471
11,03921011911,130˜‘˝˙˜ˆ15,3524212015,2747101Š711˜’‰‹Łƒ
$284,872$1,943$4,038$282,777ˇˇˇˇ‹Łƒ
$3,832$85$183$3,734ˇˇˇˇTotal securities AFS
$288,704$2,028$4,221$286,511ˇˇˇˇ˙˛ˆ˝˝
ˇ⁄‘˝˝˝
˝‡−
˙˜ˆ˝˝˝‡™


˝
˝
˙⁄ˆ˝‡



•


Accumulated other comprehensive income



˝At December 31, 2013, the amortized cost of approximately 6,300 investments in equity and fixed income securities exceeded their fair value 
by $4,221 million. Of the $4,221 million, the gross unrealized loss on equity 
securities was $183 million. Of the remainder, $1,553
 million represented 
unrealized loss on fixed-income investments that have been in a gross-
unrealized-loss position for less than a year and, of these, 98% were rated 
investment grade; $2,485 million represents unrealized loss on fixed-income 
investments that have been in a gross-unrealized-loss position for a year or 
more and, of these, 96% were rated investment grade.At December 31, 2013, the AFS mortgage-backed securities portfolio fair value balance of $52,655 million consisted of $41,997 million of government-sponsored agency securities, and $10,658 million of privately 
sponsored securities, substantially all of which were backed by non-U.S. 
residential mortgages.As discussed in more detail below, the Company conducts and documents 
periodic reviews of all securities with unrealized losses to evaluate whether 
the impairment is other-than-temporary. Any credit-related impairment 

related to debt securities that the Company does not plan to sell and is not 
likely to be required to sell is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of 
Income, with the non-credit-related impairment recognized in AOCI. For 
other debt securities with OTTI, the entire impairment is recognized in the 
Consolidated Statement of Income.206The table below shows the fair value of AFS securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:Less than 12 months12 months or longerTotal
In millions of dollarsFair
 value
Gross unrealized lossesFair
 value
Gross unrealized lossesFair
 value
Gross unrealized lossesDecember 31, 2013
Securities AFS
Š−ƒ−
$19,377$533$5,643$355$25,020$8888533Š883
2,10345Š2,108420662822348‰
$21,771$546$5,679$357$27,450$903Š−ƒ−˝‰
Š−ƒ−˝‰‡
$34,780$133$268$14$35,048$147
6,6926610116,79367‰˝‰
$41,472$199$369$15$41,841$214
$595$29$11,447$1,976$12,042$2,00535,7836145,7786341,561677
4,565108387114,95211911,207571,9316313,138120‹Łƒ
1,27192806912,077183Total securities AFS
$116,664$1,645$26,397$2,576$143,061$4,221December 31, 2012
Securities AFS
Š−ƒ−
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˛‘⁄’’˜˚’
’˘’˛˜’’⁄⁄‰
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˛‘‘Š−ƒ−˝‰
Š−ƒ−˝‰‡
ˇˇ˛˛ˇˇˇˇ˛‘
’’‰˝‰
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˜˚
ˇ˛˚ˇ’ˇˇˇˇ˘‘
˜‘‹Łƒ
˛Total securities AFS
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ207The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value of AFS debt securities by contractual maturity dates as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:2013˜˚˛˜In millions of dollarsAmortized costFair value
˝Mortgage-backed securities (1)˝$87$87ˇ˛˚ˇ˛˚˝346354˝2,8982,932˝˙˜ˆ49,72349,282Total
$53,054$52,655ˇˇU.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
˝$15,789$15,853ˇˇ˝66,23266,457˝2,1292,185˝˝˙˜ˆ3,0613,101Total
$87,211$87,596ˇˇState and municipal˝$576$581ˇˇ˝3,7313,735˝439482˝˝˙˜ˆ16,01514,142Total
$20,761$18,940ˇˇForeign government

˝$37,022$36,959ˇˇ˝51,44651,304˝7,3327,216˝˝˙˜ˆ945992Total
$96,745$96,471ˇˇAll other (3)˝$2,786$2,733ˇˇ˝10,93411,020˝5,6325,641˝˝˙˜ˆ7,7497,721Total
$27,101$27,115ˇˇTotal debt securities AFS
$284,872$282,777ˇˇ˙˛ˆ˝
˝
˙˜ˆ˝
˝˝
˝˙⁄ˆ˝
˝208Debt Securities Held-to-MaturityThe carrying value and fair value of debt securities HTM at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows:In millions of dollarsAmortized cost (1)Net unrealized losses recognized in AOCICarrying
 value
 (2)Gross unrealized gainsGross unrealized lossesFair
 value
December 31, 2013
Debt securities held-to-maturity
˝˙⁄ˆ$72$16$56$5$2$591,3792871,0924492631,2782Š21Š3
1,3722061,16660201,20610Š101Š11‰
$2,835$509$2,326$516$285$2,557
$1,394$62$1,332$50$70$1,3125,628Š5,62870105,688
81878740111Š851˝˙⁄ˆ599265732210585Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$11,274$675$10,599$769$375$10,993December 31, 2012
Debt securities held-to-maturity
˝˙⁄ˆˇˇˇˇ⁄˚ˇˇ˜˚˛˛⁄˜˛
˛˜⁄’˛˜⁄˛˜˛˜˜‰
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇˇ˘⁄ˇˇˇ⁄˘ˇ’’’
˛˚⁄˘˜‘˘⁄’˝˙⁄ˆ˜‘Total debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˙˛ˆ˝Trading account assets

−


˝˙˜ˆ˝˝




˝˙⁄ˆ˝˝˝‡™


˝
˝
The Company has the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity absent any unforeseen further significant changes in 
circumstances, including deterioration in credit or with regard to regulatory 
capital requirements.The net unrealized losses classified in AOCI relate to debt securities previously reclassified from AFS investments to HTM investments. 
Additionally, for HTM securities that have suffered credit impairment, 

declines in fair value for reasons other than credit losses are recorded in AOCI, while credit-related impairment is recognized in earnings. The AOCI 
balance for HTM securities is amortized over the remaining life of the related 
securities as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the accretion 
of discount on the same debt securities. This will have no impact on the 
Company™s net income because the amortization of the unrealized holding 

loss reported in equity will offset the effect on interest income of the accretion 
of the discount on these securities.209The table below shows the fair value of debt securities in HTM that have been in an unrecognized loss position as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:Less than 12 months12 months or longerTotal
In millions of dollarsFair
 value
Gross unrecognized lossesFair
 value
Gross unrecognized lossesFair
 value
Gross unrecognized lossesDecember 31, 2013
Debt securities held-to-maturity
$Š$Š$358$285$358$285
23520302505377092010ŠŠ92010986198429610Total debt securities held-to-maturity
$1,253$36$858$339$2,111$375December 31, 2012
Debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇˇ˘ˇˇˇˇ
’’⁄˘⁄˘’’’’’’Total debt securities held-to-maturity
ˇˇ˘ˇˇˇˇExcluded from the gross unrecognized losses presented in the above table are the $675 million and $1,532 million of gross unrealized losses recorded in AOCI as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, 

mainly related to the HTM securities that were reclassified from AFS 
investments. Virtually all of these unrecognized losses relate to securities that 

have been in a loss position for 12 months or longer at December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012.210The following table presents the carrying value and fair value of HTM debt securities by contractual maturity dates as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:2013˜˚˛˜In millions of dollarsCarrying value
Fair value

Mortgage-backed securities˝$Š$Šˇ’ˇ’˝ŠŠ‘˘˝1011˝˝˙˛ˆ2,3162,546Total
$2,326$2,557ˇˇState and municipal˝$8$9ˇˇ˝1717⁄‘⁄˘˝6972‘˜˝˝˙˛ˆ1,2381,214Total
$1,332$1,312ˇˇForeign government
˝$Š$Šˇ’ˇ’˝5,6285,688˝ŠŠ’’˝˝˙˛ˆŠŠ’’Total
$5,628$5,688ˇˇAll other˝(2)˝$Š$Šˇ’ˇ’˝740851˝ŠŠ’’˝˝˙˛ˆ573585Total
$1,313$1,436ˇˇTotal debt securities held-to-maturity
$10,599$10,993ˇˇ˙˛ˆ˝
˝˝
˙˜ˆ˝
Evaluating Investments for Other-Than-Temporary ImpairmentOverview
The Company conducts and documents periodic reviews of all securities 
with unrealized losses to evaluate whether the impairment is other-
than-temporary.An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI for 
AFS securities. Losses related to HTM securities generally are not recorded, as 
these investments are carried at amortized cost. However, for HTM securities 

with credit-related losses, only the credit loss component of the impairment is 
recognized in earnings, while the remainder of the impairment is recognized 
in AOCI. For securities transferred to HTM from Trading account assets
, 
amortized cost is defined as the fair value of the securities at the date of 
transfer, plus any accretion income and less any impairment recognized 
in earnings subsequent to transfer. For securities transferred to HTM from 

AFS, amortized cost is defined as the original purchase cost, plus or minus 
any accretion or amortization of a purchase discount or premium, less any 
impairment recognized in earnings.Regardless of the classification of the securities as AFS or HTM, the Company has assessed each position with an unrealized loss for OTTI. 
Factors considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include:the length of time and the extent to which fair value has been below cost;the severity of the impairment;the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer;activity in the market of the issuer that may indicate adverse credit 
conditions; andthe Company™s ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of 

time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.
211The Company™s review for impairment generally entails:
identification and evaluation of investments that have indications of possible impairment;analysis of individual investments that have fair values less than 
amortized cost, including consideration of the length of time the 
investment has been in an unrealized loss position and the expected 
recovery period;discussion of evidential matter, including an evaluation of factors or 
triggers that could cause individual investments to qualify as having 
other-than-temporary impairment and those that would not support 
other-than-temporary impairment; anddocumentation of the results of these analyses, as required under 
business policies.Debt
Under the guidance for debt securities, OTTI is recognized in earnings 
for debt securities that the Company has an intent to sell or that the 
Company believes it is more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell 
prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. For those securities that the 
Company does not intend to sell or expect to be required to sell, credit-
related impairment is recognized in earnings, with the non-credit-related 
impairment recorded in AOCI.For debt securities that are not deemed to be credit impaired, management assesses whether it intends to sell or whether it is more-likely-
than-not that it would be required to sell the investment before the expected 
recovery of the amortized cost basis. In most cases, management has asserted 
that it has no intent to sell and that it believes it is not likely to be required to 
sell the investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Where such an 
assertion cannot be made, the security™s decline in fair value is deemed to be 

other than temporary and is recorded in earnings.For debt securities, a critical component of the evaluation for OTTI is the identification of credit impaired securities, where management does 
not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized 
cost basis of the security. For securities purchased and classified as AFS with 

the expectation of receiving full principal and interest cash flows as of the 
date of purchase, this analysis considers the likelihood and the timing of 
receiving all contractual principal and interest. For securities reclassified out 
of the trading category in the fourth quarter of 2008, the analysis considers 
the likelihood of receiving the expected principal and interest cash flows 
anticipated as of the date of reclassification in the fourth quarter of 2008.EquityFor equity securities, management considers the various factors described above, including its intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period 
of time sufficient for recovery to cost or whether it is more-likely-than-not 
that the Company will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of 
its cost basis. Where management lacks that intent or ability, the security™s 
decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and is recorded in 
earnings. AFS equity securities deemed other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to fair value, with the full difference between fair value and cost 
recognized in earnings.Management assesses equity method investments with fair value less than carrying value for OTTI. Fair value is measured as price multiplied 
by quantity if the investee has publicly listed securities. If the investee is 
not publicly listed, other methods are used (see Note 25 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).For impaired equity method investments that Citi plans to sell prior to recovery of value or would likely be required to sell, with no expectation that 
the fair value will recover prior to the expected sale date, the full impairment 
is recognized in earnings as OTTI regardless of severity and duration. The 
measurement of the OTTI does not include partial projected recoveries 
subsequent to the balance sheet date.For impaired equity method investments that management does not plan to sell prior to recovery of value and is not likely to be required to sell, the 
evaluation of whether an impairment is other-than-temporary is based on 

(i) whether and when an equity method investment will recover in value and 
(ii) whether the investor has the intent and ability to hold that investment for 
a period of time sufficient to recover the value. The determination of whether 
the impairment is considered other-than-temporary is based on all of the 

following indicators, regardless of the time and extent of impairment:cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence 
the operations of the issuer;intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to 
allow for any anticipated recovery in market value; andlength of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the 
carrying value.The sections below describe current circumstances related to certain of the Company™s significant equity method investments, specific impairments 
and the Company™s process for identifying credit-related impairments 

in its security types with the most significant unrealized losses as of 
December 31, 2013.AkbankIn March 2012, Citi decided to reduce its ownership interest in Akbank T.A.S., 
an equity investment in Turkey (Akbank), to below 10%. As of March 31, 
2012, Citi held a 20% equity interest in Akbank, which it purchased in 
January 2007, accounted for as an equity method investment. As a result of 
its decision to sell its share holdings in Akbank, in the first quarter of 2012 
Citi recorded an impairment charge related to its total investment in Akbank 
amounting to approximately $1.2 billion pretax ($763 million after-tax). This impairment charge was primarily driven by the recognition of all net investment foreign currency hedging and translation losses previously 
reflected in AOCI, as well as a reduction in the carrying value of the 
investment to reflect the market price of Akbank™s shares. The impairment 
charge was recorded in OTTI losses on investments in the Consolidated 
Statement of Income. During the second quarter of 2012, Citi sold a 10.1% 
stake in Akbank, resulting in a loss on sale of $424 million ($274 million 212after-tax) recorded in Other revenue. As of December 31, 2013, the remaining 9.9% stake in Akbank is recorded within marketable equity securities available-for-sale. The revaluation of the Turkish Lira was hedged, so the change in the value of the currency related to Akbank investment did not have a significant impact on earnings during 
the year.MSSB
On September 17, 2012, Citi sold to Morgan Stanley a 14% interest (the 14% 
Interest) in the MSSB joint venture, pursuant to the exercise of the purchase 
option by Morgan Stanley on June 1, 2012. Morgan Stanley paid Citi 
$1.89 billion in cash as the purchase price of the 14% Interest. The purchase 
price was based on an implied 100% valuation of the MSSB joint venture 
of $13.5 billion, as agreed between Morgan Stanley and Citi pursuant to an 
agreement dated September 11, 2012. The related approximately $4.5 billion 
in deposits were transferred to Morgan Stanley at no premium, as agreed 
between the parties.Prior to the September 2012 sale, Citi™s carrying value of its 49% interest 
in the MSSB joint venture was approximately $11.3 billion. As a result 
of the agreement entered into with Morgan Stanley on September 11, 
2012, Citi recorded a charge to net income in the third quarter of 2012 of 
approximately $2.9 billion after-tax ($4.7
 billion pretax), consisting of 
(i) a charge recorded in Other revenue of approximately $800 million 
after-tax ($1.3
 billion pretax), representing a loss on sale of the 14% 
Interest, and (ii) an OTTI of the carrying value of its then-remaining 35% 
interest in the MSSB joint venture of approximately $2.1 billion after-tax 

($3.4 billion pretax).On June 21, 2013, Morgan Stanley notified Citi of its intent to exercise its call option with respect to Citi™s remaining 35% investment in the MSSB 

joint venture, composed of an approximate $4.725 billion equity investment 
and $3 billion of other MSSB financing (consisting of approximately 
$2.028 billion of preferred stock and a $0.880 billion loan). At the closing 
of the transaction on June 28, 2013, the loan to MSSB was repaid and the 
MSSB interests and preferred stock were settled, with no significant gains or 
losses recorded at the time of settlement. In addition, MSSB made a dividend 
payment to Citi on June 28, 2013 in the amount of $37.5 million.Mortgage-backed securitiesFor U.S. mortgage-backed securities (and in particular for Alt-A and other 
mortgage-backed securities that have significant unrealized losses as a 
percentage of amortized cost), credit impairment is assessed using a cash 
flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying mortgages, using 
the security-specific collateral and transaction structure. The model estimates 
cash flows from the underlying mortgage loans and distributes those cash 
flows to various tranches of securities, considering the transaction structure 
and any subordination and credit enhancements that exist in that structure. 
The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows on the mortgage-backed 
securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using a number of assumptions, including default rates, prepayment 
rates, recovery rates (on foreclosed properties) and loss severity rates 
(on non-agency mortgage-backed securities).Management develops specific assumptions using as much market data as possible and includes internal estimates, as well as estimates published 
by rating agencies and other third-party sources. Default rates are projected 
by considering current underlying mortgage loan performance, generally 
assuming the default of (i) 10% of current loans, (ii) 25% of 30-59 day 
delinquent loans, (iii) 70% of 60-90 day delinquent loans and (iv) 100% 
of 91+ day delinquent loans. These estimates are extrapolated along a 
default timing curve to estimate the total lifetime pool default rate. Other 
assumptions contemplate the actual collateral attributes, including 
geographic concentrations, rating actions and current market prices.Cash flow projections are developed using different stress test scenarios. Management evaluates the results of those stress tests (including the 
severity of any cash shortfall indicated and the likelihood of the stress 
scenarios actually occurring based on the underlying pool™s characteristics 

and performance) to assess whether management expects to recover the 
amortized cost basis of the security. If cash flow projections indicate that the 

Company does not expect to recover its amortized cost basis, the Company 
recognizes the estimated credit loss in earnings.State and municipal securitiesThe process for identifying credit impairments in Citigroup™s AFS state and 
municipal bonds is primarily based on a credit analysis that incorporates 
third-party credit ratings.  Citigroup monitors the bond issuers and any 
insurers providing default protection in the form of financial guarantee 
insurance.  The average external credit rating, ignoring any insurance, is 
Aa3/AA-.  In the event of an external rating downgrade or other indicator of 
credit impairment (i.e., based on instrument-specific estimates of cash flows 
or probability of issuer default), the subject bond is specifically reviewed for 
adverse changes in the amount or timing of expected contractual principal 
and interest.For AFS state and municipal bonds with unrealized losses that Citigroup plans to sell, would likely be required to sell or will be subject to an issuer call 
deemed probable of exercise prior to the expected recovery of its amortized 
cost basis, the full impairment is recognized in earnings.213Recognition and Measurement of OTTIThe following table presents the total OTTI recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2013:OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
Year ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsAFS (1)HTMOther Assets (2)Total

˝
‰˝˜˚˛⁄
$9$154$Š$163
Š98Š98
˝
$9$56$Š$65
˝‡
˝˙˜ˆ269Š201470Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
$278$56$201$535˙˛ˆ˝
˙˜ˆ˝

Other revenue−¤ﬂƒƒž¥
OTTI on Investments and Other Assets
¦˝˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollarsAFS (1)HTMOther Assets (2)Total

˝
‰˝˜˚˛˜
ˇ˛˘ˇˇ’ˇ
˛’‘‘
˝
ˇ˛‘ˇ⁄˚˚ˇ’ˇ⁄˛‘
˝‡
˝˙˜ˆ’Total impairment losses recognized in earnings
ˇˇ⁄˚˚ˇˇ˙˛ˆ˝
˙˜ˆ˝
¤ﬂƒƒž¥˝
214The following is a 12-month roll-forward of the credit-related impairments recognized in earnings for AFS and HTM debt securities held as of December 31, 2013 that the Company does not intend to sell nor likely will be required to sell:Cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings
In millions of dollars˝˜˚˛˜˝
Credit impairments recognized in earnings on securities not previously impairedCredit impairments recognized in earnings on securities that have been previously impairedReductions due to credit-impaired securities sold, transferred or maturedDec. 31, 2013 
balanceAFS debt securities
ˇ$Š$Š$Š$295Š2Š171
˛˛‘ŠŠ(3)113˛⁄˘7ŠŠ144Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
 AFS debt securitiesˇ˘˛˘$7$2$(3)$723HTM debt securities
˝˙˛ˆˇ$47$7$(245)$678
ŠŠŠ562Š(4)133Total OTTI credit losses recognized for 
 HTM debt securitiesˇ$49$7$(249)$867˙˛ˆ˝
Investments in Alternative Investment Funds That Calculate Net Asset Value per ShareThe Company holds investments in certain alternative investment funds 
that calculate net asset value (NAV) per share, including hedge funds, 
private equity funds, funds of funds and real estate funds. The Company™s 
investments include co-investments in funds that are managed by the Company and investments in funds that are managed by third parties. 
Investments in funds are generally classified as non-marketable equity 
securities carried at fair value.The fair values of these investments are estimated using the NAV per share 
of the Company™s ownership interest in the funds, where it is not probable 

that the Company will sell an investment at a price other than the NAV.
Fair value
Unfunded commitmentsRedemption frequency
 (if currently eligible) monthly,
 quarterly, annually
Redemption notice periodIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜2013˜˚˛˜$751ˇ$Šˇ’Generally quarterly10-95 days
˝˙˛ˆ˙˜ˆ794170ŠŠ
˝˙˜ˆ˙⁄ˆ29436ŠŠTotal
˝(4)$1,839ˇ$206ˇŠŠ˙˛ˆ˝
˙˜ˆ˝‡™

−


˙⁄ˆ˝
˙ˆ
˝
˝˝
˝
˝˝

‡−˝
˝˝

˝
21515. LOANSCitigroup loans are reported in two categoriesŠConsumer and Corporate. These categories are classified primarily according to the segment and 
subsegment that manage the loans.Consumer LoansConsumer loans represent loans and leases managed primarily by the 
Global Consumer Banking businesses in Citicorp and in Citi Holdings. The 
following table provides information by loan type:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Consumer loans

$108,453
13,398115,6516,592$244,094

$55,511
33,18236,74024,107769“€˛$150,309Total Consumer loans
$394,403(572)Consumer loans, net of unearned income
$393,831ˆ…ˆ—
Included in the loan table above are lending products whose terms may give rise to greater credit issues. Credit cards with below-market introductory interest rates and interest-only loans are examples of such products. These 
products are closely managed using credit techniques that are intended to 
mitigate their higher inherent risk.During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company sold and/or reclassified to held-for-sale $11.5 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, 

of Consumer loans. During the year ended December 31, 2013, Citi acquired 
approximately $7 billion of loans related to the acquisition of Best Buy™s U.S. 

credit card portfolio. The Company did not have significant purchases of 
Consumer loans during the year ended December 31, 2012.Citigroup has established a risk management process to monitor, evaluate 
and manage the principal risks associated with its Consumer loan portfolio. 
Credit quality indicators that are actively monitored include delinquency 
status, consumer credit scores (FICO), and loan to value (LTV) ratios, each as 

discussed in more detail below.
Delinquency Status
Delinquency status is monitored and considered a key indicator of credit 
quality of Consumer loans. Substantially all of the U.S. residential first 
mortgage loans use the Mortgage Banking Association (MBA) method of 
reporting delinquencies, which considers a loan delinquent if a monthly 
payment has not been received by the end of the day immediately preceding 
the loan™s next due date. All other loans use the Office of Thrift Supervision 
(OTS) method of reporting delinquencies, which considers a loan delinquent 
if a monthly payment has not been received by the close of business on the 
loan™s next due date.As a general policy, residential first mortgages, home equity loans and 
installment loans are classified as non-accrual when loan payments are 
90 days contractually past due. Credit cards and unsecured revolving loans 
generally accrue interest until payments are 180 days past due. Home equity 
loans in regulated bank entities are classified as non-accrual if the related 
residential first mortgage is 90 days or more past due. Mortgage loans in 
regulated bank entities discharged through Chapter 7 bankruptcy, other than 

FHA-insured loans, are classified as non-accrual. Commercial market loans 
are placed on a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on 
actual experience and a forward-looking assessment of the collectability of 
the loan in full, that the payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when 
interest or principal is 90 days past due.The policy for re-aging modified U.S. Consumer loans to current status varies by product. Generally, one of the conditions to qualify for these 

modifications is that a minimum number of payments (typically ranging 
from one to three) be made. Upon modification, the loan is re-aged to 
current status. However, re-aging practices for certain open-ended Consumer 

loans, such as credit cards, are governed by Federal Financial Institutions 
Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. For open-ended Consumer loans 
subject to FFIEC guidelines, one of the conditions for the loan to be re-aged 
to current status is that at least three consecutive minimum monthly 
payments, or the equivalent amount, must be received. In addition, under 
FFIEC guidelines, the number of times that such a loan can be re-aged is 
subject to limitations (generally once in 12 months and twice in five years). 
Furthermore, Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of 
Veterans Affairs (VA) loans are modified under those respective agencies™ 

guidelines and payments are not always required in order to re-age a 
modified loan to current.216The following tables provide details on Citigroup™s Consumer loan delinquency and non-accrual loans as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:Consumer Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2013In millions of dollarsTotal
 current (1)(2)30-89 days past due (3)˜ 90 days past due (3)Past due
 government
 guaranteed (4)Total
 loans (2)Total
 non-accrual90 days past due and accruing

$66,666$2,040$1,925$5,271$75,902$3,369$3,99730,603434605Š31,6421,452Š113,8781,4951,456Š116,829Š1,45612,609225243Š13,07724778,6302628Š8,6841127Total
$232,386$4,220$4,257$5,271$246,134$5,180$5,467

$46,067$435$332$Š$46,834$584$ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ34,733780641Š36,15440241330,138398158Š30,694230Š33,242111295Š33,648610ŠTotal
$144,180$1,724$1,426$Š$147,330$1,826$413Total GCB and Citi Holdings
$376,566$5,944$5,683$5,271$393,464$7,006$5,880Other3381316Š36743ŠTotal Citigroup
$376,904$5,957$5,699$5,271$393,831$7,049$5,880ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
Consumer Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2012In millions of dollarsTotal
 current (1)(2)30-89 days past due (3)˜ 90 days past due (3)Past due
 government
 guaranteed (4)Total
 loans (2)Total
 non-accrual90 days past due and accruing

ﬁﬁﬁﬁ˜€€ﬁ€’˜ﬁ˜˛˚˛˛Total


ﬁ€˚“ﬁﬁ˜ﬁ˜ﬁﬁﬁﬁ˛€˛ﬁﬁTotal
ﬁTotal GCB and Citi Holdings
Other˛€ﬁ€˛ﬁTotal Citigroup
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
217Consumer Credit Scores (FICO)In the U.S., independent credit agencies rate an individual™s risk for 
assuming debt based on the individual™s credit history and assign every 
consumer a ﬁFICOﬂ credit score. These scores are continually updated by the 
agencies based upon an individual™s credit actions (e.g., taking out a loan or 
missed or late payments).The following table provides details on the FICO scores attributable to Citi™s U.S. Consumer loan portfolio as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 

(commercial market loans are not included in the table since they are 
business-based and FICO scores are not a primary driver in their credit 
evaluation). FICO scores are updated monthly for substantially all of the 
portfolio or, otherwise, on a quarterly basis.
FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsLess than 620˜ 620 but less than 660Equal to or greater than 660
$11,860$6,426$46,2074,0932,77923,1528,12510,69394,4373,9002,3995,186Total
$27,978$22,297$168,982ˆ…ˆ


ˆ
FICO score distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)ˆ˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollarsˆ˜ˆˆ
ˆ
Total
ˆˆ


ˆ
Loan to Value (LTV) Ratios
LTV ratios (loan balance divided by appraised value) are calculated at 
origination and updated by applying market price data.The following tables provide details on the LTV ratios attributable to Citi™s 
U.S. Consumer mortgage portfolios as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. 
LTV ratios are updated monthly using the most recent Core Logic HPI data 

available for substantially all of the portfolio applied at the Metropolitan 
Statistical Area level, if available, or the state level if not. The remainder 
of the portfolio is updated in a similar manner using the Office of Federal 
Housing Enterprise Oversight indices.LTV distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsLess than or equal to 80%> 80% but less than or equal to 100%Greater than 100%
$45,809$13,458$5,26914,2168,6856,935Total
$60,025$22,143$12,204ˆ


ˆ
LTV distribution in U.S. portfolio
 (1)(2)ˆ˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollarsˆˆˆ˛˚˚Ÿ
ˆˆ˛˚˚Ÿ
Total
ˆ


ˆ
Impaired Consumer LoansImpaired loans are those loans that Citigroup believes it is probable all 
amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan will not 
be collected. Impaired Consumer loans include non-accrual commercial 
market loans, as well as smaller-balance homogeneous loans whose terms 
have been modified due to the borrower™s financial difficulties and where 
Citigroup has granted a concession to the borrower. These modifications 
may include interest rate reductions and/or principal forgiveness. Impaired 
Consumer loans exclude smaller-balance homogeneous loans that have not 
been modified and are carried on a non-accrual basis. In addition, impaired 
Consumer loans exclude substantially all loans modified pursuant to Citi™s 
short-term modification programs (i.e., for periods of 12 months or less) that 
were modified prior to January 1, 2011.218As a result of OCC guidance issued in the third quarter of 2012, mortgage loans to borrowers that have gone through Chapter 7 bankruptcy are classified as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). These TDRs, other than 
FHA-insured loans, are written down to collateral value less cost to sell. FHA-
insured loans are reserved based on a discounted cash flow model (see Note 
1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The recorded investment in receivables reclassified to TDRs in the third quarter of 2012 as a result of this 
OCC guidance approximated $1,714 million, composed of $1,327 million of 
residential first mortgages and $387 million of home equity loans.The following tables present information about total impaired Consumer loans at and for the years ending December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively:Impaired Consumer LoansAt and for the year ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)(2)Unpaid principal balanceRelated specific allowance (3)Average
 carrying value
 (4)Interest income recognized (5)(6)

$16,801$17,788$2,309$17,616$7902,1412,8064272,116813,3393,3851,1783,7202341,1141,1435361,09415339860518340422Total
 (7)$23,793$25,727$4,633$24,950$1,280ˆ
ˆ
ˆ Allowance for loan losses.
ˆ–
ˆˆˆ˘
ˆ…ž
˘ˆ˜˚˛’˘
ˆ˜˚˛’˘
ˆ˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollarsˆˆ
–
ˆ
ˆ

’˚€“’“˜˛Total
 (8)ˆ
ˆ
ˆAllowance for loan losses.
ˆ–
ˆˆˆ˘
ˆ
ˆ…ž
˘ˆ˜˚˛˜˘

ˆ˜˚˛˜˘
219Consumer Troubled Debt RestructuringsThe following tables present Consumer TDRs occurring during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012:At and for the year ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollars except number of loans modifiedNumber of loans modifiedPost-modification
 recorded investment (1)(2)Deferred principal (3)Contingent principal forgiveness (4)Principal forgiveness (5)Average
 interest rate reductionNorth America
32,116$4,160$68$25$1581%11,0433491Š911172,211826ŠŠŠ1453,326381ŠŠŠ720239ŠŠŠŠTotal
268,898$5,755$69$25$249International
3,618$161$Š$Š$21%682ŠŠŠŠ199,025613ŠŠ211565,708351ŠŠ1084131042ŠŠŠTotal
268,832$1,231$2$Š$33ˆ˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollars except  
number of loans modifiedˆ
ˆˆˆ
ˆ
–
ˆ
ˆNorth America
˜˜’˜˛€˛Ÿ€’’ﬁ“€˜ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ˛“˚˛€ﬁﬁﬁﬁTotal
˜“’International
ﬁﬁ’˛Ÿ“˛ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ˜’’“˜ﬁ˛€’““˛“˛ﬁ˛˜ﬁTotal
ﬁ˜’“ˆ
ˆ
North America

ˆ˜˚˛’˘ˆ


ˆ˘


ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
North America

ˆ˜˚˛˜˘ˆ


220The following table presents Consumer TDRs that defaulted during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and for which the payment 
default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is 
defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial 
markets loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due.In millions of dollarsYear ended
 December 31, 2013
¢
ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
North America
$1,53218020491˛’˚3ﬁTotal
$2,010International
$61Šﬁ22210515Total
$403221Corporate LoansCorporate loans represent loans and leases managed by the Institutional Clients Group in Citicorp or, to a much lesser extent, in Citi Holdings. The following table presents information by Corporate loan type as of 
December 31, 2013 and 2012:In millions of dollarsDecember 31,  2013ˆˆ˜˚˛˜Corporate
$32,70425,102
29,425
34,4341,647$123,312
$82,66338,372
6,274
18,714527
2,341$148,891Total Corporate loans
$272,203(562)Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$271,641ˆ…ˆ—
The Company sold and/or reclassified (to held-for-sale) $5.8 billion and 
$4.4 billion of Corporate loans for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 
2012, respectively.
Corporate loans are identified as impaired and placed on a cash (non-accrual) basis when it is determined, based on actual experience and a 
forward-looking assessment of the collectability of the loan in full, that the 
payment of interest or principal is doubtful or when interest or principal is 90 
days past due, except when the loan is well collateralized and in the process 
of collection. Any interest accrued on impaired Corporate loans and leases 
is reversed at 90 days and charged against current earnings, and interest is 
thereafter included in earnings only to the extent actually received in cash. 
When there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of principal, all 
cash receipts are thereafter applied to reduce the recorded investment in the 
loan. While Corporate loans are generally managed based on their internally 
assigned risk rating (see further discussion below), the following tables 
present delinquency information by Corporate loan type as of December 31, 
2013 and December 31, 2012:Corporate Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2013In millions of dollars30Œ89 days  past due  and accruing (1)> 90 days  past due and  accruing (1)Total past due 
 and accruingTotal 
 non-accrual (2)Total 
 current (3)Total 
 loans$72$5$77$769$112,985$113,831ŠŠŠ36561,70462,069
18317535851534,02734,90091101891,9752,174472497054,47654,595
4,072Total
$311$183$494$1,908$265,167$271,641ˆ
ˆˆ
˜


ˆˆ
ˆ222Corporate Loan Delinquency and Non-Accrual Details at December 31, 2012In millions of dollars30-89 days  past due  and accruing (1)˜ 90 days  past due and  accruing (1)Total past due 
 and accruingTotal 
 non-accrual (2)Total 
 current (3)Total 
 loans’€˛˚ﬁ
’’’“ﬁ““˚
ˆTotal
ˆ
ˆˆ
˜

ˆˆ
ˆCitigroup has a risk management process to monitor, evaluate and 
manage the principal risks associated with its Corporate loan portfolio. As 
part of its risk management process, Citi assigns numeric risk ratings to its 
Corporate loan facilities based on quantitative and qualitative assessments 
of the obligor and facility. These risk ratings are reviewed at least annually 

or more often if material events related to the obligor or facility warrant. 
Factors considered in assigning the risk ratings include: financial condition 
of the obligor, qualitative assessment of management and strategy, amount 

and sources of repayment, amount and type of collateral and guarantee 
arrangements, amount and type of any contingencies associated with the 
obligor, and the obligor™s industry and
 geography.
The obligor risk ratings are defined by ranges of default probabilities. The facility risk ratings are defined by ranges of loss norms, which are the product 
of the probability of default and the loss given default. The investment grade 
rating categories are similar to the category BBB-/Baa3 and above as defined 
by S&P and Moody™s. Loans classified according to the bank regulatory 

definitions as special mention, substandard and doubtful will have risk 
ratings within the non-investment grade categories.223Corporate Loans Credit Quality Indicators at December 31, 2013 and 2012Recorded investment in loans (1)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013ˆ˜˚˛˜Investment grade (2)$79,36049,699
13,1781,60051,370Total investment grade
$195,207Non-investment grade (2)$33,70212,005
4,2053853,155769365
51518970Total non-investment grade
$55,360Private Banking loans managed on a 
delinquency basis
 (2)$17,002Loans at fair value
4,072Corporate loans, net of unearned income
$271,641ˆ


ˆ
ˆCorporate loans and leases identified as impaired and placed on non-accrual status are written down to the extent that principal is judged to 
be uncollectible. Impaired collateral-dependent loans and leases, where 
repayment is expected to be provided solely by the sale of the underlying 
collateral and there are no other available and reliable sources of repayment, 
are written down to the lower of cost or collateral value, less cost to sell. 
Cash-basis loans are returned to an accrual status when all contractual 
principal and interest amounts are reasonably assured of repayment and 
there is a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months, 
in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan.224The following tables present non-accrual loan information by Corporate loan type at and for the years ended December 31, 2013, and 2012, respectively:Non-Accrual Corporate LoansAt and for the year ended December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsRecorded  investment (1)Unpaid  principal balanceRelated specific  allowanceAverage 
 carrying value
 (2)Interest income  recognized (3)
$769$1,074$79$967$3036538233789
515651355853189190131189Š7021620641Total non-accrual Corporate loans
$1,908$2,513$268$2,183$43ˆ˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollarsˆˆ
ˆ–
ˆ
ˆ
ﬁ
€˛˚€˛˛˜’˜€Total non-accrual Corporate loans
December 31, 2013
ˆ˜˚˛˜
In millions of dollarsRecorded investment (1)Related specific allowanceˆ
ˆ
$401$79243
253351861316120Total non-accrual Corporate loans with specific allowance
$925$268
$368341
2623ˆ9˛˚Total non-accrual Corporate loans without specific allowance
$983N/A•¡–ˆ
ˆ–
ˆˆ
ˆ•¡–ˆ
225Corporate Troubled Debt RestructuringsThe following table presents TDR activity at and for the year ended December 31, 2013.In millions of dollarsCarrying
 Value
TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of principal payments (1)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of interest payments (2)TDRs involving changes in the amount and/or timing of both principal and interest paymentsBalance of principal forgiven or deferredNet P&L impact (3)$130$55$58$17$Š$1ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
3419141ŠŠ5ŠŠ5ŠŠTotal
$169$74$72$23$Š$1ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆThe following table presents TDR activity at and for the year ended December 31, 2012.In millions of dollars
ˆŠ
ˆˆˆˆ
ˆˆˆˆ
ˆˆˆˆˆ
ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛ﬁ˛ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ
˛˛’ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁTotal
˜˛˜ﬁ˛ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
ˆThe following table presents total Corporate loans modified in a TDR at December 31, 2013 and 2012, as well as those TDRs that defaulted during the years ended 2013 and 2012, and for which the payment default occurred within one year of a permanent modification. Default is defined as 60 days past due, except for classifiably managed commercial markets loans, where default is defined as 90 days past due.In millions of dollarsTDR balances at December 31, 2013
TDR loans  in payment default
 during the year ended December 31, 2013

ˆˆ˜˚˛˜
ˆ
ˆˆˆ˜˚˛˜
$197$2714Š˛“ﬁ
16117˛’˛ﬁ422ŠﬁTotal
$794$44€“’226Purchased Distressed LoansIncluded in the Corporate and Consumer loan outstanding tables above are purchased distressed loans, which are loans that have evidenced significant 
credit deterioration subsequent to origination but prior to acquisition by 
Citigroup. In accordance with SOP 03-3 (codified as ASC 310-30), the 
difference between the total expected cash flows for these loans and the 
initial recorded investment is recognized in income over the life of the 
loans using a level yield. Accordingly, these loans have been excluded from 
the impaired loan table information presented above. In addition, per 
SOP 03-3, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows for a purchased distressed loan require a build of an allowance so the loan retains its level 
yield. However, increases in the expected cash flows are first recognized as 
a reduction of any previously established allowance and then recognized as 
income prospectively over the remaining life of the loan by increasing the 
loan™s level yield. Where the expected cash flows cannot be reliably estimated, 
the purchased distressed loan is accounted for under the cost recovery 
method. The carrying amount of the Company™s purchased distressed 
loan portfolio was $636 million and $440 million, net of an allowance of 
$113 million, and $98 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 
2012, respectively.The changes in the accretable yield, related allowance and carrying amount net of accretable yield for 2013 and 2012 are as follows:In millions of dollarsAccretable yieldCarrying
 amount of loan receivable
Allowanceˆ˜˚˛˛
˜ﬁ
ﬁﬁﬁﬁ
˛ﬁˆ˜˚˛˜
˜˜ﬁ
˛˚ﬁ˜˜ﬁ
’ﬁﬁﬁBalance at December 31, 2013
 (2)$78$749$113ˆ
ˆˆ…

ˆˆ


ˆˆˆ…˘
ˆ
ˆˆ
ˆˆ


ˆ…˘
22716. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSESIn millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Allowance for loan losses at beginning of year$25,455˝˙˚ˆ˛˛ˇ˝(12,769)2,306˙ˆ˚˛˜Net credit losses (NCLs)$(10,463)˝˝$10,463˝˛˘ˆ˜˙˛˝
(1,961)
(898)Total provision for credit losses
$7,604˝˝ˆ
(2,948)Allowance for loan losses at end of year$19,648˝˜ˇˆ˘ˇˇ˝˙˚ˆ˛˛ˇAllowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at beginning of year (4)$1,119˝˝
80ˇ˛ˆ
30Allowance for credit losses on unfunded lending commitments at end of year(4)$1,229˝˝Total allowance for loans, leases, and unfunded lending commitments
$20,877˝˝˙˛ˆ˜ˇ˛
⁄‹›‹


“




⁄‹›‹


Other liabilities

228Allowance for Credit Losses and Investment in Loans at December 31, 2013 In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

$2,776$22,679$25,455
(369)(12,400)(12,769)1682,1382,306
20110,26210,463
(199)(1,762)(1,961)
(1)(897)(898)8(2,956)(2,948)Ending balance$2,584$17,064$19,648

$2,232$12,402$14,634
2684,6334,901
8429113Total allowance for loan losses
$2,584$17,064$19,648

$265,230$368,449$633,679
2,22223,79326,015
117632749
4,0729575,029Total loans, net of unearned income
$271,641$393,831$665,472Allowance for Credit Losses and Investment in Loans at December 31, 2012 In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

˝˝˝˙˚ˆ˛˛ˇ

˜˜˙˛˘ˆ˜˙˛
˜
˙˙Ending balance˝˝˝˜ˇˆ˘ˇˇ

˝˝˝

˙ˇTotal allowance for loan losses
˝˝˝˜ˇˆ˘ˇˇ

˝˝˝

˛˛˜
˛ˆ˜˙˛Total loans, net of unearned income
˝˝˝Allowance for Credit Losses at December 31, 2011 In millions of dollarsCorporateConsumerTotal

˝˝˝
˙ˆ˚˛˜


˛ˆ˘˘˘Ending balance˝˝˝˙˚ˆ˛˛ˇ22917. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETSGoodwillThe changes in Goodwill during 2013 and 2012 were as follows:In millions of dollars
˝˜ˇˆ˘˛˙



˝
(577)
(25)(62)Balance at December 31, 2013
$25,009The changes in Goodwill by segment during 2013 and 2012 were as follows:In millions of dollarsGlobal  Consumer BankingInstitutional Clients GroupCiti HoldingsCorporate/OtherTotal

˝˝˝˘ˆ˘˘˚˝Ÿ˝˜ˇˆ˘˛˙˝Ÿ˝Ÿ˝Ÿ˝Ÿ˝ŸŸŸŸ˜˚˜˘˘˘ŸŸŸ
˝˝˝˛ˇ˙˝Ÿ˝$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š(82)ŠŠŠ(82)(472)(113)3Š(582)Balance at December 31, 2013
$13,985$10,868$156$Š$25,009Goodwill

ŠLocal Consumer Lending  CiticorpŠNorth America Regional Consumer Banking

Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the level below the business segments (referred to as a reporting unit). The Company performed 
its annual goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2013 resulting in no 
impairment for any of the reporting units.The reporting unit structure in 2013 was the same as the reporting unit structure in 2012, although certain names were changed and certain 
underlying businesses were transferred between certain reporting units in 
the third quarter of 2013. Specifically, assets were transferred from the legacy 

Brokerage Asset Management reporting unit to the Special Asset Pool, both 
components within the Citi Holdings segment. While goodwill affected by the 
reorganization was reassigned to reporting units that receive businesses using 
a relative fair value approach, no goodwill was allocated to this transferred portfolio as the assets do not represent a business as defined by GAAP and 
therefore goodwill allocation was not appropriate. The legacy reporting 
unit was renamed as Latin America Retirement Services, and continues to hold the $42 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2013. Additionally, the 

legacy Local Consumer LendingŠCards
 reporting unit was renamed Citi 
HoldingsŠCards
, but no changes were made to the businesses and assets 
assigned to the reporting unit. An interim goodwill impairment test was 
performed on the impacted reporting units as of July 1, 2013, resulting in 
no impairment.No goodwill was deemed impaired in 2013, 2012 and 2011.230The following table shows reporting units with goodwill balances as of December 31, 2013.In millions of dollarsReporting unitFair value as a % of 
 allocated book value
GoodwillNorth America Regional Consumer Banking
183%$6,785EMEA Regional Consumer Banking
159355Asia Regional Consumer Banking
2515,067Latin America Regional Consumer Banking
2441,778Securities and Banking1479,270Transaction Services
7171,598Latin America Retirement Services
 (1)22442Citi HoldingsŠCards (2)170114Citi HoldingsŠOtherŠŠLatin America Retirement Services:


“
Brokerage Asset Management
‹ŠCards:
Local Consumer LendingŠCards.Citigroup engaged an independent valuation specialist in 2013 and 2012 to assist in Citi™s valuation for most of the reporting units employing 

both the market approach and the discounted cash flow (DCF) method. Citi 
believes that the DCF method, using management projections for the selected 
reporting units and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, is the most 
reflective of a market participant™s view of fair values given current market 

conditions. For the reporting units where both methods were utilized in 2013 
and 2012, the resulting fair values were relatively consistent and appropriate 
weighting was given to outputs from both methods.231INTANGIBLE ASSETSThe components of intangible assets were as follows:December 31, 2013

In millions of dollarsGross carrying
 amountAccumulated amortizationNet carrying
 amount




$7,552$6,006$1,546˝˝˝
1,2551,052203˛ˆ˙˛ˇ
67538928623814692˛˙ˇ˛˚˘
323Š323Ÿ5,0732,4672,606Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
$15,116$10,060$5,056˝˛ˇˆ˜˚˘˝˝
2,718Š2,718ŸTotal intangible assets
$17,834$10,060$7,774˝˝˝
Intangible assets amortization expense was $808 million, $856 million and $898 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Intangible assets 
amortization expense is estimated to be $743 million in 2014, $699 million 
in 2015, $792 million in 2016, $851 million in 2017 and $403 million 
in 2018.The changes in intangible assets during 2013 were as follows:In millions of dollars

˙˛ˆ˜˚˛˜Acquisitions/ divestituresAmortizationImpairmentsFX and other (1)Net carrying
 amount at December 31, 2013
˝$22$(377)$(4)$(1)$1,546
Š(72)(21)Š203
(36)Š(65)286˛˚˘Š(12)ŠŠ92
(162)ŠŠ(2)323431(311)Š(31)2,606Intangible assets (excluding MSRs)
˝$291$(808)$(25)$(99)$5,056
2,718Total intangible assets
˝$7,774

23218. DEBTShort-Term BorrowingsShort-term borrowings consist of commercial paper and other borrowings with weighted average interest rates at December 31 as follows:2013˜˚˛˜In millions of dollarsBalanceWeighted
 average couponž

Commercial paper$17,6770.25%˝2011.11$17,878˝Other borrowings (3)41,0660.87%Total
$58,944˝ž





˙˛ˆ
…‹
Borrowings under bank lines of credit may be at interest rates based on LIBOR, CD rates, the prime rate or bids submitted by the banks. Citigroup 
pays commitment fees for its lines of credit.Some of Citigroup™s non-bank subsidiaries have credit facilities with 
Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions, including Citibank, N.A. 

Borrowings under these facilities are secured in accordance with Section 23A 
of the Federal Reserve Act.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc. (CGMHI) has borrowing agreements consisting of facilities that CGMHI has been advised are 
available, but where no contractual lending obligation exists. These 
arrangements are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure flexibility in 
meeting CGMHI™s short-term requirements.
Long-Term DebtBalances at December 31,In millions of dollarsWeighted
 average couponMaturities2013˜˚˛˜Citigroup Inc. (1)4.02%2014-2098$124,857˝
4.482014-204328,039„
6.902032-20673,908˛˚ˆ˛˛˚Bank (4)1.992014-203856,039
6.022014-2037418Broker-dealer
 (5)3.112014-20397,831
2.622015-201724˜ˇTotal
 (6)$221,116˝$188,727˝˜˚˛ˆ˚˘˚
28,481„
3,908˛˚ˆ˛˛˚Total
$221,116˝…ˆ











…ˆ

‹






˙˛ˆ

…‹



…‹

„



„„



„„
The Company issues both fixed and variable rate debt in a range of currencies. It uses derivative contracts, primarily interest rate swaps, to 
effectively convert a portion of its fixed rate debt to variable rate debt and 
variable rate debt to fixed rate debt. The maturity structure of the derivatives 
generally corresponds to the maturity structure of the debt being hedged. 
In addition, the Company uses other derivative contracts to manage 
the foreign exchange impact of certain debt issuances. At December 31, 
2013, the Company™s overall weighted average interest rate for long-term 

debt was 3.58% on a contractual basis and 2.73% including the effects of 
derivative contracts.233Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) including trust preferred securities are as follows:In millions of dollars20142015201620172018ThereafterTotal
˝˝˝˛˙ˆ˛˙˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˙˝˝˙ˆ˘ˇˇ˝
˛ˆ˙˙˜˜˘
˜˜ˆ˙˙˜Total
˝˘˙ˆ˘˜˘˝˝˝˝˝˝The following table summarizes the Company™s outstanding trust preferred securities at December 31, 2013:Junior subordinated debentures owned by trustTrust
Issuance dateSecurities issuedLiquidation value
(1)Coupon rateCommon shares issued to parentAmountMaturityRedeemable by issuer beginningIn millions of dollars, except share amounts


˝˝˜˚˚˛ˆ



˛˘ˆ
˛˙ˆ






˛ˆ˚˚˚˙˚ˆ
˙˚ˆ

‹
˜˚ˆ˚˚˚‹
˛ˇˆ
‹
˛ˇˆ


ˇ˚

„


ˇ˘˜

„

˜ˇˆ˚˚˚˜ˇ


„

˘˚ˆ˚˚˚˘˚
˘˛

„¥
‹
˙ˇˆ˚˚˚˙ˇ
‹

‹

Total obligated
$4,731$4,781
In each case, the coupon rate on the subordinated debentures is the same as that on the trust preferred securities. Distributions on the trust preferred securities and interest on the subordinated debentures are payable quarterly, 

except for Citigroup Capital III and Citigroup Capital XVIII on which 
distributions are payable semiannually.
234
1
9
.
 
R
E
G
U
L
A
T
O
R
Y
 
C
A
P
I
T
A
L
 
A
N
D
 
C
I
T
I
G
R
O
U
P
 
I
N
C
.
 
PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION
Citigroup is subject to risk-based capital and leverage guidelines issued by the 
Federal Reserve Board. Citi™s U.S. insured depository institution subsidiaries, 
including Citibank, N.A., are subject to similar guidelines issued by their 
respective primary federal bank regulatory agencies. These guidelines are 
used to evaluate capital adequacy and include the required minimums 
shown in the following table. The regulatory agencies are required by law 
to take specific prompt actions with respect to institutions that do not meet 
minimum capital standards.
The following table sets forth Citigroup™s and Citibank, N.A.™s regulatory 
capital tiers, risk-weighted assets, quarterly adjusted average total assets, 
and capital ratios as of December
 
31, 2013 in accordance with current 
regulatory guidelines:
In
 
millions
 
of dollars, 
except ratios
Required
minimum
Well 
 capitalized 
 minimum
Citigroup
Citibank, N.A.
„
$
138,070
$
121,713
„
149,444
122,450
„

181,958
141,341

1,092,707
905,836




1,820,998
1,317,673
„
N/A
N/A
12.64
%
13.44%
„
4.0%
6.0%
13.68
13.52
„
 8.0
10.0
16.65
15.60

 3.0
5.0
(3)
8.21
9.29


„„„


‹






As indicated in the table above, Citigroup and Citibank, N.A. were well 
capitalized under the current federal bank regulatory definitions as of 
December
 
31, 2013.
Banking SubsidiariesŠConstraints on Dividends
There are various legal limitations on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary 
depository institutions to extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply 
funds to Citigroup and its non-bank subsidiaries. The approval of the Office 
of the Comptroller of the Currency is required if total dividends declared 
in any calendar year exceed amounts specified by the applicable agency™s 
regulations. State-chartered depository institutions are subject to dividend 
limitations imposed by applicable state law.
In determining the dividends, each depository institution must also 
consider its effect on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio 
requirements, as well as policy statements of the federal regulatory agencies 
that indicate that banking organizations should generally pay dividends 
out of current operating earnings. Citigroup received $12.2 billion and 
$19.1 billion in dividends from Citibank, N.A. during 2013 and 2012, 
respectively.
Non-Banking Subsidiaries
Citigroup also receives dividends from its non-bank subsidiaries. These 
non-bank subsidiaries are generally not subject to regulatory restrictions 
on dividends, although their ability to declare dividends can be restricted by 
capital considerations, as set forth in the table below.
In millions of dollars
Subsidiary
Jurisdiction
Net 
capital
 
or 
equivalent
Excess
 
over 
minimum 
requirement

⁄‹›‹















˝˘ˆ˙˙˙
235Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Only Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive IncomeYears
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Revenues$3,234˝˝5,559Net interest expense
$(2,325)˝˝Dividends from subsidiaries13,044Non-interest revenue139Total revenues, net of interest expense
$10,858˝˝˛˚ˆ˚ˇ˛Total operating expenses
$851˝˝˛ˆˇ˚˙Income before taxes and equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries$10,007˝˝
(1,637)2,029)Parent company™s net income
$13,673˝˝Comprehensive income…¢
$13,673˝˝(2,237)…¢
$11,436˝˝Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Only Balance SheetYears
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜Assets$233˝˛ˇ˙„
184˛ˇ˚1,03283,110203,739106,170˛˚˜ˆ˙˙ˇTotal assets
$394,468˝Liabilities
$185˝„
165382156,80424,181
8,412Total liabilities
$190,129˝Total equity
204,339Total liabilities and equity
$394,468˝

236Citigroup Inc. Parent Company Only Cash Flows Statement Years
 ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛Net cash provided by (used in ) operating activities of continuing operations
$(7,881)˝˝Cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations$Š˝˝385
233…
7,2264Net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations
$7,848˝˝Cash flows from financing activities of continuing operations$(314)˝˝4,192˜ˆ˜ˇ˚Ÿˆ
(13,426)…
11,402(1,741)Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations
$113˝˝Net increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks$80˝˛ˇ˚˝Cash and due from banks at beginning of period153˙˛˛Cash and due from banks at end of period$233˝˛ˇ˙˝˙Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information for continuing operations


$(71)˝˝6,514
…ª
ˆ
˙˛ˆ

…‹
23720. CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)Changes in each component of Citigroup™s Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the three-year period ended December 31, 2013 are as follows:In millions of dollarsNetunrealized
gains (losses)on investment 
securitiesCash flow 
hedges (1)Benefit plans (2)Foreigncurrency
translationadjustment,net of hedges (CTA)
 (3)Accumulatedothercomprehensive income (loss)˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ˚

˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ˚

˜˚˛˚˝˙ˆˇ˚



Balance at December 31, 2013
$(1,724)$(1,245)$(3,989)$(12,175)$(19,133)ˇ
ˇ—–
ˇˇ—ˇ
ˇ„˚

ˇﬂ
ˇ—–

—–
ˇ


ˇˇˇ
The pretax and after-tax changes in each component of 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the three-year period ended December 31, 2013 are as follows:In millions of dollarsPretaxTax effect
After-tax









ChangeBalance, December 31, 2013
$(27,596)$8,463$(19,133)238During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company recognized a pretax loss of $1,071 million ($649 million net of tax) related to amounts reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into the Consolidated Statement of income. See details in the table below:Increase (decrease) in AOCI due to amounts reclassified to Consolidated 
Statement of IncomeIn millions of dollarsYear ended December
 31, 2013

ﬂ
Net realized (gains) losses on investment securities (1)
ﬂ
Amortization of cash flow hedges (2)

ž
ﬂ
Amortization of benefit plans (3)
ﬂ
Foreign currency translation adjustment
 (5)Total amounts reclassified out of AOCIŠpretax
Total tax effect
Total amounts reclassified out of AOCIŠafter-tax
ˇRealized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net
Gross impairment losses
ˇ


ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
23921. PREFERRED STOCKThe following table summarizes the Company™s preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:Carrying value
 in millions of dollarsIssuance dateRedeemable by issuer beginningDividend rateRedemptionprice per depositary 
share/preference shareNumber of depositary 
sharesDecember 31,  2013December 31,  2012”˚

$Šﬂ


Š‡‡


97

121‡


1,500

750

575ž
”˚
1,250ž

950ž

1,495ž$6,738ˇˇˇ
ˇˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ”˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚
ˇˇ˘ˇ˚ˇ
˘ˆˇ•˝˘’˛ˇ
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ„•˛—
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚—
ˇ—
ˇ˘ˇ˚ˇ
—
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ„•˛—
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚—
ˇ
ˇ˘ˇ˚ˇ
—
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ”˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ„•˛—
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ˘ˇ˚ˇ
˘ˆˇ•˝˘’˛ˇ”˚—
ˇ—˚—
ˇˇ”˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˚
ˇˇ„•˝ˆ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ—˚
ˇ
ˇ—˚ˇ”˚—
ˇˇ
ˇˇ—˚
On February 12, 2014, Citi issued $480 million of Series L Preferred Stock as depository shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of the corresponding series of non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. The dividend rate is 6.875%, payable quarterly on February 12, May 12, August 12 
and November 12, commencing May 12, 2014, in each case when, as and if 
declared by Citigroup™s Board of Directors.
During 2013, Citi distributed approximately $194 million in dividends on its outstanding preferred stock. Based on its preferred stock outstanding 
as of December 31, 2013, Citi estimates it will distribute preferred dividends 
of approximately $427 million during 2014, in each case assuming such 
dividends are approved by Citigroup™s Board of Directors.
24022. SECURITIZATIONS AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIESUses of Special Purpose EntitiesA special purpose entity (SPE) is an entity designed to fulfill a specific limited need of the company that organized it. The principal uses of SPEs are to 
obtain liquidity and favorable capital treatment by securitizing certain of 
Citigroup™s financial assets, to assist clients in securitizing their financial 
assets and to create investment products for clients. SPEs may be organized 
in various legal forms including trusts, partnerships or corporations. In a 
securitization, the company transferring assets to an SPE converts all (or a 
portion) of those assets into cash before they would have been realized in 
the normal course of business through the SPE™s issuance of debt and equity 
instruments, certificates, commercial paper and other notes of indebtedness. 
These issuances are recorded on the balance sheet of the SPE, which may 
or may not be consolidated onto the balance sheet of the company that 
organized the SPE.Investors usually have recourse only to the assets in the SPE and often benefit from other credit enhancements, such as a collateral account or over-

collateralization in the form of excess assets in the SPE, a line of credit, or a 
liquidity facility, such as a liquidity put option or asset purchase agreement. 

Because of these enhancements, the SPE issuances can typically obtain a 
more favorable credit rating from rating agencies than the transferor could 
obtain for its own debt issuances. This results in less expensive financing 
costs than unsecured debt. The SPE may also enter into derivative contracts 
in order to convert the yield or currency of the underlying assets to match 
the needs of the SPE investors or to limit or change the credit risk of the SPE. 
Citigroup may be the provider of certain credit enhancements as well as the 
counterparty to any related derivative contracts.Most of Citigroup™s SPEs are variable interest entities (VIEs), as 
described below.
Variable Interest Entities
VIEs are entities that have either a total equity investment that is insufficient 
to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated 
financial support, or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a 
controlling financial interest (i.e., ability to make significant decisions 
through voting rights and right to receive the expected residual returns of 
the entity or obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity). Investors 
that finance the VIE through debt or equity interests or other counterparties 
providing other forms of support such as guarantees, subordinated fee 
arrangements or certain types of derivative contracts, are variable interest 
holders in the entity.The variable interest holder, if any, that has a controlling financial interest 
in a VIE is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and must consolidate the 
VIE. Citigroup would be deemed to have a controlling financial interest and 
be the primary beneficiary if it has both of the following characteristics:power to direct activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity™s economic performance; andobligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be 
significant to the VIE, or right to receive benefits from the entity that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company must evaluate its involvement in each VIE and understand the purpose and design of the entity, the role the Company had in the entity™s 
design and its involvement in the VIE™s ongoing activities. The Company 

then must evaluate which activities most significantly impact the economic 
performance of the VIE and who has the power to direct such activities.For those VIEs where the Company determines that it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic 

performance, the Company then must evaluate its economic interests, if any, 

and determine whether it could absorb losses or receive benefits that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. When evaluating whether the Company 
has an obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant, it 
considers the maximum exposure to such loss without consideration of 
probability. Such obligations could be in various forms, including, but not 

limited to, debt and equity investments, guarantees, liquidity agreements and 
certain derivative contracts.In various other transactions, the Company may: (i) act as a derivative counterparty (for example, interest rate swap, cross-currency swap, or 
purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE); 
(ii) act as underwriter or placement agent; (iii) provide administrative, 
trustee or other services; or (iv) make a market in debt securities or other 
instruments issued by VIEs. The Company generally considers such 
involvement, by itself, not to be variable interests and thus not an indicator of 
power or potentially significant benefits or losses.241Citigroup™s involvement with consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs with which the Company holds significant variable interests or has continuing involvement 
through servicing a majority of the assets in a VIE, each as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, is presented below:In millions of dollarsAs of December 31, 2013
Maximum exposure to loss in significant 
 unconsolidated VIEs(1)Funded exposures
(2)Unfunded exposures
(3)CiticorpTotal
 involvement with SPE assetsConsolidated VIE / SPE assetsSignificant unconsolidated VIE assets(4)Debt investmentsEquity investmentsFunding commitmentsGuarantees and derivatives
Total

$52,229$52,229$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
‚‹™‹ˇ˚
239,204Š239,2043,583ŠŠ363,619
7,7115987,113583ŠŠŠ583
31,75931,759ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
4,204Š4,20434ŠŠŠ34
16,883Š16,8831,938ŠŠŠ1,93845,88497144,91317,452741,13219518,85312,7167,0395,67729Š3,881Š3,91015,96222315,7391,8462,0731,173Š5,092
1,7781951,583145ŠŠŠ14531,7872,55729,23019126481Š536ﬂ
4,822Š4,822Š51ŠŠ512,4392252,2141436492078890Total
$467,378$95,796$371,582$25,944$3,111$6,287$309$35,651Citi Holdings
$1,867$1,448$419$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
‚‹™‹ˇ˚
73,549Š73,549549ŠŠ77626
13,1931,69511,49835ŠŠ237
1,5201,520ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
3,625Š3,62588ŠŠ87175
2,733Š2,733358ŠŠ1114693,50833,5056293258Š8907,304Š7,3043204939Š1,146
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ1,237Š1,237Š61ŠŠ614,4944,43460ŠŠŠŠŠTotal
$113,030$9,100$103,930$1,662$268$1,197$277$3,404Total Citigroup
$580,408$104,896$475,512$27,606$3,379$7,484$586$39,055ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ—˘ˆ˛ﬂ
ﬂ—˘ˆ˛
ﬂˇ

Consumer loans
ˇ˘ˆ−˛˚ˇˇ™ˆˆˇ
ˇˇ™ˆˆˇ
242In millions of dollarsAs of December 31, 2012
Maximum exposure to loss in significant 
 unconsolidated VIEs(1)Funded exposures
(2)Unfunded exposures
(3)CiticorpTotal
 involvement with SPE assetsConsolidated VIE / SPE assetsSignificant unconsolidated VIE assets(4)Debt investmentsEquity investmentsFunding commitmentsGuarantees and derivatives
Total

ˇžžžžžž
‚‹™‹ˇ˚
žžž
žžžˇ
žžž
žžžž
žžžžžž
žžžžžžﬂ
žžžžTotal
Citi Holdings
žžžžž
‚‹™‹ˇ˚
žžž
žž
žžžžžž
žžž
žžžžž
žžžžžžžžžžžžžTotal
Total Citigroup
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ˘ˆ−˛˚ˇˇ™ˆˆˇ
ˇˇ™ˆˆˇ
243The previous tables do not include:certain venture capital investments made by some of the Company™s private equity subsidiaries, as the Company accounts for these investments 
in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide (codified in 
ASC 946);certain limited partnerships that are investment funds that qualify for 
the deferral from the requirements of ASC 810 where the Company is the 
general partner and the limited partners have the right to replace the 
general partner or liquidate the funds; certain investment funds for which the Company provides investment 
management services and personal estate trusts for which the Company 
provides administrative, trustee and/or investment management services; VIEs structured by third parties where the Company holds securities in 
inventory, as these investments are made on arm™s-length terms; certain positions in mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities 
held by the Company, which are classified as Trading account assets or Investments, where the Company has no other involvement with 
the related securitization entity deemed to be significant (for more 
information on these positions, see Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements);certain representations and warranties exposures in legacy Securities and Banking-sponsored mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations, 
where the Company has no variable interest or continuing involvement 
as servicer. The outstanding balance of mortgage loans securitized during 
2005 to 2008 where the Company has no variable interest or continuing 
involvement as servicer was approximately $16 billion and $19 billion at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively; andcertain representations and warranties exposures in Citigroup residential 
mortgage securitizations, where the original mortgage loan balances are 
no longer outstanding.The asset balances for consolidated VIEs represent the carrying amounts of the assets consolidated by the Company. The carrying amount may 

represent the amortized cost or the current fair value of the assets depending 
on the legal form of the asset (e.g., security or loan) and the Company™s 

standard accounting policies for the asset type and line of business.The asset balances for unconsolidated VIEs where the Company has significant involvement represent the most current information available 
to the Company. In most cases, the asset balances represent an amortized 

cost basis without regard to impairments in fair value, unless fair value 
information is readily available to the Company. For VIEs that obtain 

asset exposures synthetically through derivative instruments (for example, 
synthetic CDOs), the tables generally include the full original notional 
amount of the derivative as an asset balance.The maximum funded exposure represents the balance sheet carrying amount of the Company™s investment in the VIE. It reflects the initial 

amount of cash invested in the VIE adjusted for any accrued interest and 
cash principal payments received. The carrying amount may also be 
adjusted for increases or declines in fair value or any impairment in value 
recognized in earnings. The maximum exposure of unfunded positions 
represents the remaining undrawn committed amount, including liquidity 
and credit facilities provided by the Company, or the notional amount 

of a derivative instrument considered to be a variable interest. In certain 
transactions, the Company has entered into derivative instruments or 
other arrangements that are not considered variable interests in the VIE 
(e.g., interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, or where the Company is 
the purchaser of credit protection under a credit default swap or total return 
swap where the Company pays the total return on certain assets to the SPE). 
Receivables under such arrangements are not included in the maximum 
exposure amounts.244Funding Commitments for Significant Unconsolidated VIEsŠLiquidity Facilities and Loan CommitmentsThe following table presents the notional amount of liquidity facilities and loan commitments that are classified as funding commitments in the VIE tables 
above as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:December 31, 2013
ˇ
In millions of dollarsLiquidity facilities
Loan commitmentsCiticorp
$Š$Šž51,1273,881ŠžŠ1,173žŠ81žžŠ20žTotal Citicorp
$3,886$2,401Citi Holdings

$Š$ŠžŠ258žŠ939žTotal Citi Holdings
$Š$1,197Total Citigroup funding commitments
$3,886$3,598Citicorp and Citi Holdings Consolidated VIEsThe Company engages in on-balance-sheet securitizations, which are 
securitizations that do not qualify for sales treatment; thus, the assets remain 
on the Company™s balance sheet. The consolidated VIEs included in the 
tables below represent hundreds of separate entities with which the Company 
is involved. In general, the third-party investors in the obligations of 
consolidated VIEs have legal recourse only to the assets of the VIEs and do not 
have such recourse to the Company, except where the Company has provided 
a guarantee to the investors or is the counterparty to certain derivative 
transactions involving the VIE. In addition, the assets are generally restricted 
only to pay such liabilities.Thus, the Company™s maximum legal exposure to loss related to 
consolidated VIEs is significantly less than the carrying value of the 
consolidated VIE assets due to outstanding third-party financing. 
Intercompany assets and liabilities are excluded from the table. All assets are 
restricted from being sold or pledged as collateral. The cash flows from these 
assets are the only source used to pay down the associated liabilities, which 
are non-recourse to the Company™s general assets.
The following table presents the carrying amounts and classifications of consolidated assets that are collateral for consolidated VIE and SPE 
obligations as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013
ˇ
CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup
$0.2$0.2$0.4ﬂ
1.0Š1.0ž10.4Š10.4žﬂˇ˝ˆ˘
83.28.791.91.10.21.3Total assets
$95.9$9.1$105.0$24.3$Š$24.3ž32.82.034.8
0.90.11.0Total liabilities
$58.0$2.1$60.1245Citicorp and Citi Holdings Significant Interests in Unconsolidated VIEsŠBalance Sheet ClassificationThe following table presents the carrying amounts and classification of significant variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2013 and 2012:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013
ˇ
CiticorpCiti HoldingsCitigroup
ﬂ
$4.8$0.4$5.23.70.44.1ﬂˇ˝ˆ˘
18.30.618.92.20.52.7Total assets
$29.0$1.9$30.9Credit Card Securitizations
The Company securitizes credit card receivables through trusts that are 

established to purchase the receivables. Citigroup transfers receivables into 

the trusts on a non-recourse basis. Credit card securitizations are revolving 

securitizations; as customers pay their credit card balances, the cash proceeds 

are used to purchase new receivables and replenish the receivables in the trust.Substantially all of the Company™s credit card securitization activity is 
through two trustsŠCitibank Credit Card Master Trust (Master Trust) and 

the Citibank Omni Master Trust (Omni Trust). These trusts are treated as 

consolidated entities because, as servicer, Citigroup has the power to direct 

the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the trusts, holds a seller™s interest and certain securities issued by the trusts, 

and provides liquidity facilities to the trusts, which could result in potentially 
significant losses or benefits from the trusts. Accordingly, the transferred 

credit card receivables remain on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet with 

no gain or loss recognized. The debt issued by the trusts to third parties is 
included in Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company utilizes securitizations as one of the sources of funding for its business in North America. The following table reflects amounts related 
to the Company™s securitized credit card receivables as of December 31, 2013 

and 2012:CiticorpCiti HoldingsIn billions of dollarsDecember 31,  2013December 31,2013
$32.3$Š
8.11.3
12.1ŠTotal ownership interests in principal amount of trust credit card receivables
$52.5$1.3ˇ—˘ˆ˛ﬂ

ﬂ—˘ˆ˛

ﬂˇ
Consumer loans


Credit Card SecuritizationsŠCiticorp
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to 
Citicorp™s credit card securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 
2012 and 2011:In billions of dollars2013
$15.2…˚
(11.2)Credit Card SecuritizationsŠCiti Holdings
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to 

Citi Holdings™ credit card securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 

2012 and 2011:In billions of dollars2013
$0.2ž…˚
(0.1)žž246Managed LoansAfter securitization of credit card receivables, the Company continues to 
maintain credit card customer account relationships and provides servicing 
for receivables transferred to the trusts. As a result, the Company considers 
the securitized credit card receivables to be part of the business it manages. 
As Citigroup consolidates the credit card trusts, all managed securitized card 
receivables are on-balance sheet.Funding, Liquidity Facilities and Subordinated InterestsAs noted above, Citigroup securitizes credit card receivables through two 
securitization trustsŠMaster Trust, which is part of Citicorp, and Omni 
Trust, which is also substantially part of Citicorp. The liabilities of the trusts 
are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, excluding those retained 
by Citigroup.Master Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes. Some of the term 
notes are issued to multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the term notes issued by the Master Trust was 3.1 years as 

of December 31, 2013 and 3.8 years as of December 31, 2012.Master Trust Liabilities (at par value)In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
 2013˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˙
$27.9
6.2Total Master Trust liabilities
$34.1The Omni Trust issues fixed- and floating-rate term notes, some of which 
are purchased by multi-seller commercial paper conduits. The weighted 
average maturity of the third-party term notes issued by the Omni Trust was 

0.7 years as of December 31, 2013 and 1.7 years as of December 31, 2012.Omni Trust Liabilities (at par value)In billions of dollarsDec. 31,
 2013˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˙
$4.4†˝†
1.9“˝ˇTotal Omni Trust liabilities
$6.3ˇˇ˝‘Mortgage Securitizations
The Company provides a wide range of mortgage loan products to a diverse 
customer base. Once originated, the Company often securitizes these loans 
through the use of SPEs. These SPEs are funded through the issuance of trust 
certificates backed solely by the transferred assets. These certificates have 
the same life as the transferred assets. In addition to providing a source of 
liquidity and less expensive funding, securitizing these assets also reduces 
the Company™s credit exposure to the borrowers. These mortgage loan 
securitizations are primarily non-recourse, thereby effectively transferring 
the risk of future credit losses to the purchasers of the securities issued by 
the trust. However, the Company™s Consumer business generally retains 
the servicing rights and in certain instances retains investment securities, 
interest-only strips and residual interests in future cash flows from the trusts 
and also provides servicing for a limited number of Securities and Banking securitizations. Securities and Banking and Citi Holdings do not retain 
servicing for their mortgage securitizations.The Company securitizes mortgage loans generally through either a government-sponsored agency, such as Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie 

Mac (U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages), or private-label (non-agency-
sponsored mortgages) securitization. The Company is not the primary 
beneficiary of its U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations because 
Citigroup does not have the power to direct the activities of the SPE that most 
significantly impact the entity™s economic performance. Therefore, Citi does 

not consolidate these U.S. agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations.The Company does not consolidate certain non-agency-sponsored mortgage securitizations, because Citi is either not the servicer with the power 
to direct the significant activities of the entity or Citi is the servicer but the 
servicing relationship is deemed to be a fiduciary relationship and, therefore, 
Citi is not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the entity.
In certain instances, the Company has (i) the power to direct the activities and (ii) the obligation to either absorb losses or the right to receive 
benefits that could be potentially significant to its non-agency-sponsored 
mortgage securitizations and, therefore, is the primary beneficiary and thus 
consolidates the SPE.247Mortgage SecuritizationsŠCiticorpThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to Citicorp mortgage securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 
and 2011:2013In billions of dollarsU.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-
 sponsored mortgages˙
˙˙
˙
˙˙

$65.8$6.7
0.4Š
0.1ŠAgency and non-agency securitization gains for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $154 million and $49 million, respectively.
Agency and non-agency securitization gains (losses) for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $30 million and $(9) million, respectively.
Key assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests at the date of sale or securitization of mortgage receivables for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows:December 31, 2013
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests
0.0% to 12.4%2.3% to 4.3%0.1% to 19.2%…
10.1%3.4%7.8%
0.0% to 21.4%5.4% to 10.0%0.1% to 11.2%…
5.5%7.2%7.5%
NM47.2% to 53.0%0.1% to 89.0%…
NM49.3%49.2%…
0.0 to 12.4 years2.9 to 9.7 years2.5 to 16.5 yearsDecember 31, 2012
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests
ƒƒƒ…
ˇˇ˝†ƒƒƒ
ƒƒƒ…
ƒ⁄˝ˆƒƒ
‹›ƒƒ…
‹›ƒ‘†˝ˇƒ…
—ˇ–˙
˙
˙˙


˙
˙
˙248The interests retained by the Company range from highly rated and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the key assumptions used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions, are set forth in the tables below. The negative effect of each change is calculated independently, 

holding all other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may 
not be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key 
assumptions may be less than the sum of the individual effects shown below.
December 31, 2013
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests
0.1% to 20.9%0.5% to 17.4%2.1% to 19.6%…
6.9%5.5%11.2%
6.2% to 30.4%1.3% to 100.0%1.4% to 23.1%…
11.1%6.4%7.4%
NM0.1% to 80.0%25.5% to 81.9%…
NM49.5%52.8%…
2.1 to 14.1 years0.0 to 11.9 years0.0 to 26.0 yearsDecember 31, 2012
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests
ƒƒƒ…
ƒƒƒ
ƒƒƒ…
ƒƒƒ
‹›ƒƒ…
‹›ƒ‘†˝ˇƒ…
—ˇ–˙
˙
˙˙


˙
˙
˙In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests
$2,519$293$429
$(76)$(6)$(25)(148)(11)(48)
(96)(1)(7)(187)(2)(14)
NM(2)(7)NM(3)(14 )249In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests

––—ˆˇ––—†–—‘⁄–
–—ˇ–—ˇˇ––—ˆ––
‹›—ˇ–—ˇˆ–‹›—ˆ––—ˇ–˙
˙
˙
˙Mortgage SecuritizationsŠCiti HoldingsThe following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to Citi Holdings mortgage securitizations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 
and 2011:2013In billions of dollarsU.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-
 sponsored mortgages˙
˙
˙
˙˙

$ 0.2$Š
0.3Š
ŠŠ‚Gains recognized on the securitization of U.S. agency-sponsored mortgages during 2013 were $20 million. Agency securitization gains for 
the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $45 million and $78 
million, respectively.
The Company did not securitize non-agency-sponsored mortgages for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.Similar to Citicorp mortgage securitizations discussed above, the range in the key assumptions is due to the different characteristics of the interests 
retained by the Company. The interests retained range from highly rated 

and/or senior in the capital structure to unrated and/or residual interests.At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the key assumptions used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 
10% and 20% in each of the key assumptions, are set forth in the tables below. 

The negative effect of each change is calculated independently, holding all 

other assumptions constant. Because the key assumptions may not in fact 
be independent, the net effect of simultaneous adverse changes in the key 
assumptions may be less than the sum of the individual effects shown below.
250December 31, 2013
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior interestsSubordinated interests(2)
0.0% to 49.3%9.9%Š…
9.5%9.9%Š
9.6% to 26.2%12.3% to 27.3%Š…
20.0%15.6%Š
NM0.3%Š…
NM0.3%Š…
2.3 to 7.6 years5.2 yearsŠDecember 31, 2012
Non-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesSenior  interestsSubordinated interests
ƒƒƒ…
⁄˝“ƒƒƒ
ƒƒƒ…
ƒƒˇ‘˝“ƒ
‹›ƒƒ…
‹›ƒƒ…
“˝†˙
—ˇ–˙
˙
˙
˙˙
˙In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests
$585$50$Š
$(16)$(3)$Š(32)(5)Š
(33)(3)Š(65)(6)Š
NM(5)ŠNM(11)ŠIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
U.S. agency-
 sponsored mortgagesNon-agency-sponsored mortgages
(1)Senior interestsSubordinated interestsCarrying value of retained interests
ˆ⁄
–‚—ˇ––—ˇ––
—‘“–—ˆ–‚–—“–—ˇ–
‹›—⁄––‹›˙—ˇ⁄–—†–—ˇ–˙
˙
˙
˙251Mortgage Servicing RightsIn connection with the securitization of mortgage loans, the Company™s 
U.S. Consumer mortgage business generally retains the servicing rights, 
which entitle the Company to a future stream of cash flows based on the 
outstanding principal balances of the loans and the contractual servicing 
fee. Failure to service the loans in accordance with contractual requirements 
may lead to a termination of the servicing rights and the loss of future 
servicing fees.The fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) was $2.7 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

The MSRs correspond to principal loan balances of $286 billion and $325 
billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following 

table summarizes the changes in capitalized MSRs for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012:In millions of dollars2013Balance, beginning of year
$1,942
634˙640–—ˇ–(496)–(2)‚Balance, as of December 31
$2,718—ˇ–˙
˙The fair value of the MSRs is primarily affected by changes in prepayments of mortgages that result from shifts in mortgage interest rates. 
In managing this risk, the Company economically hedges a significant 
portion of the value of its MSRs through the use of interest rate derivative 
contracts, forward purchase and sale commitments of mortgage-backed 
securities and purchased securities classified as Trading account
 assets.The Company receives fees during the course of servicing previously securitized mortgages. The amounts of these fees for the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:In millions of dollars2013
$800
42
100Total MSR fees
$942ˇ˘ˇ““These fees are classified in the Consolidated Statement of Income as Other revenue.Re-securitizations
The Company engages in re-securitization transactions in which debt 
securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial interests. 
During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Citi transferred non-
agency (private-label) securities with an original par value of approximately 
$955 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, to re-securitization entities. These 
securities are backed by either residential or commercial mortgages and are 
often structured on behalf of clients.As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately 
$425 million ($131 million of which related to re-securitization transactions 
executed in 2013), and are recorded in Trading account assets
. Of this 
amount, approximately $58 million was related to senior beneficial 
interests, and approximately $367 million was related to subordinated 
beneficial interests. As of December 31, 2012, the fair value of Citi-retained 
interests in private-label re-securitization transactions structured by 
Citi totaled approximately $380 million ($128 million of which related 
to re-securitization transactions executed in 2012). Of this amount, 
approximately $11 million was related to senior beneficial interests, and approximately $369 million was related to subordinated beneficial interests. The original par value of private-label re-securitization transactions in 
which Citi holds a retained interest as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 was 
approximately $6.1 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.
The Company also re-securitizes U.S. government-agency guaranteed mortgage-backed (agency) securities. During the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, Citi transferred agency securities with a fair 
value of approximately $26.3 billion and $30.3 billion, respectively, to 

re-securitization entities.As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of Citi-retained interests in agency re-securitization transactions structured by Citi totaled approximately 
$1.5 billion ($1.2 billion of which related to re-securitization transactions 
executed in 2013) compared to $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2012 
($1.1 billion of which related to re-securitization transactions executed in 
2012), which is recorded in Trading account assets
. The original fair value 
of agency re-securitization transactions in which Citi holds a retained interest 
as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 was approximately $75.5 billion and 
$71.2 billion, respectively.
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company did not consolidate any private-label or agency re-securitization entities.252Citi-Administered Asset-Backed Commercial Paper ConduitsThe Company is active in the asset-backed commercial paper conduit 
business as administrator of several multi-seller commercial paper conduits 
and also as a service provider to single-seller and other commercial paper 
conduits sponsored by third parties.Citi™s multi-seller commercial paper conduits are designed to provide 
the Company™s clients access to low-cost funding in the commercial paper 

markets. The conduits purchase assets from or provide financing facilities to 
clients and are funded by issuing commercial paper to third-party investors. 
The conduits generally do not purchase assets originated by the Company. 

The funding of the conduits is facilitated by the liquidity support and credit 
enhancements provided by the Company.
As administrator to Citi™s conduits, the Company is generally responsible 
for selecting and structuring assets purchased or financed by the conduits, 
making decisions regarding the funding of the conduits, including 
determining the tenor and other features of the commercial paper issued, 
monitoring the quality and performance of the conduits™ assets, and 
facilitating the operations and cash flows of the conduits. In return, the 
Company earns structuring fees from customers for individual transactions 
and earns an administration fee from the conduit, which is equal to the 
income from the client program and liquidity fees of the conduit after 
payment of conduit expenses. This administration fee is fairly stable, since 
most risks and rewards of the underlying assets are passed back to the clients. 
Once the asset pricing is negotiated, most ongoing income, costs and fees are 
relatively stable as a percentage of the conduit™s
 size.The conduits administered by the Company do not generally invest in liquid securities that are formally rated by third parties. The assets are 
privately negotiated and structured transactions that are generally designed 
to be held by the conduit, rather than actively traded and sold. The yield 
earned by the conduit on each asset is generally tied to the rate on the 
commercial paper issued by the conduit, thus passing interest rate risk to the 
client. Each asset purchased by the conduit is structured with transaction-
specific credit enhancement features provided by the third-party client seller, 

including over collateralization, cash and excess spread collateral accounts, 
direct recourse or third-party guarantees. These credit enhancements are 
sized with the objective of approximating a credit rating of A or above, based 
on the Company™s internal risk ratings. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the 

conduits had approximately $32 billion and $30 billion of purchased assets 
outstanding, respectively, and had incremental funding commitments with 

clients of approximately $13.5 billion and $14 billion, respectively.
Substantially all of the funding of the conduits is in the form of short-term commercial paper. At the respective periods ended December 31, 2013 

and 2012, the weighted average remaining lives of the commercial paper 
issued by the conduits were approximately 67 and 38 days, respectively.
The primary credit enhancement provided to the conduit investors is in the form of transaction-specific credit enhancements described above. One 
conduit holds only loans that are fully guaranteed primarily by AAA-rated 
government agencies that support export and development financing 
programs. In addition to the transaction-specific credit enhancements, the 
conduits, other than the government guaranteed loan conduit, have obtained a letter of credit from the Company, which is equal to at least 8 to 10% of 

the conduit™s assets with a minimum of $200 million. The letters of credit 

provided by the Company to the conduits total approximately $2.3 billion 
and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The net 

result across multi-seller conduits administered by the Company, other than 

the government guaranteed loan conduit, is that, in the event defaulted 
assets exceed the transaction-specific credit enhancements described above, 
any losses in each conduit are allocated first to the Company and then the 
commercial paper investors.The Company also provides the conduits with two forms of liquidity agreements that are used to provide funding to the conduits in the event 
of a market disruption, among other events. Each asset of the conduits is 
supported by a transaction-specific liquidity facility in the form of an asset 
purchase agreement (APA). Under the APA, the Company has generally 

agreed to purchase non-defaulted eligible receivables from the conduit at par. 

The APA is not generally designed to provide credit support to the conduit, 

as it generally does not permit the purchase of defaulted or impaired assets. 
Any funding under the APA will likely subject the underlying conduit clients 

to increased interest costs. In addition, the Company provides the conduits 
with program-wide liquidity in the form of short-term lending commitments. 
Under these commitments, the Company has agreed to lend to the conduits 
in the event of a short-term disruption in the commercial paper market, 
subject to specified conditions. The Company receives fees for providing 
both types of liquidity agreements and considers these fees to be on fair 
market terms.Finally, the Company is one of several named dealers in the commercial 
paper issued by the conduits and earns a market-based fee for providing 
such services. Along with third-party dealers, the Company makes a market 
in the commercial paper and may from time to time fund commercial 
paper pending sale to a third party. On specific dates with less liquidity in 

the market, the Company may hold in inventory commercial paper issued 
by conduits administered by the Company, as well as conduits administered 

by third parties. The amount of commercial paper issued by its administered 
conduits held in inventory fluctuates based on market conditions and 
activity. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company owned $13.9 billion 

and $11.7 billion, respectively, of the commercial paper issued by its 

administered conduits.The asset-backed commercial paper conduits are consolidated by the Company. The Company determined that, through its roles as administrator 

and liquidity provider, it had the power to direct the activities that most 

significantly impacted the entities™ economic performance. These powers 
included its ability to structure and approve the assets purchased by the 
conduits, its ongoing surveillance and credit mitigation activities, its ability 
to sell or repurchase assets out of the conduits, and its liability management. 
In addition, as a result of all the Company™s involvement described above, 

it was concluded that the Company had an economic interest that could 
potentially be significant. However, the assets and liabilities of the conduits 

are separate and apart from those of Citigroup. No assets of any conduit are 
available to satisfy the creditors of Citigroup or any of its other subsidiaries.253During the second quarter of 2013, Citi consolidated the government guaranteed loan conduit it administers that was previously not consolidated due to changes in the primary risks and design of the conduit that were 
identified as a reconsideration event. Citi, as the administrator and liquidity 
provider, previously determined it had an economic interest that could 

potentially be significant. Upon the reconsideration event, it was determined 
that Citi had the power to direct the activities that most significantly 
impacted the conduit™s economic performance. The impact of the 

consolidation resulted in an increase of assets and liabilities of approximately 

$7 billion each and a net pretax gain to the Consolidated Statement of 
Income of approximately $40 million.Collateralized Debt and Loan ObligationsA securitized collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is an SPE that purchases 
a pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities and synthetic exposures 
through derivatives on asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of 
equity and notes to investors.A cash CDO, or arbitrage CDO, is a CDO designed to take advantage of the difference between the yield on a portfolio of selected assets, typically 
residential mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of funding the CDO 
through the sale of notes to investors. ﬁCash flowﬂ CDOs are entities in which 
the CDO passes on cash flows from a pool of assets, while ﬁmarket valueﬂ 
CDOs pay to investors the market value of the pool of assets owned by the 
CDO at maturity. In these transactions, all of the equity and notes issued by 

the CDO are funded, as the cash is needed to purchase the debt securities.A synthetic CDO is similar to a cash CDO, except that the CDO obtains exposure to all or a portion of the referenced assets synthetically through 
derivative instruments, such as credit default swaps. Because the CDO does 
not need to raise cash sufficient to purchase the entire referenced portfolio, 
a substantial portion of the senior tranches of risk is typically passed on to 
CDO investors in the form of unfunded liabilities or derivative instruments. 
The CDO writes credit protection on select referenced debt securities to the 
Company or third parties. Risk is then passed on to the CDO investors in 
the form of funded notes or purchased credit protection through derivative 
instruments. Any cash raised from investors is invested in a portfolio of 
collateral securities or investment contracts. The collateral is then used 
to support the obligations of the CDO on the credit default swaps written 
to counterparties.A securitized collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is substantially similar to the CDO transactions described above, except that the assets owned by 
the SPE (either cash instruments or synthetic exposures through derivative 
instruments) are corporate loans and to a lesser extent corporate bonds, 
rather than asset-backed debt securities.A third-party asset manager is typically retained by the CDO/CLO to select the pool of assets and manage those assets over the term of the SPE. The 
Company is the manager for a limited number of CLO transactions over the 
term of the SPE.The Company earns fees for warehousing assets prior to the creation of a ﬁcash flowﬂ or ﬁmarket valueﬂ CDO/CLO, structuring CDOs/CLOs and 
placing debt securities with investors. In addition, the Company has retained interests in many of the CDOs/CLOs it has structured and makes a market in 
the issued notes.The Company™s continuing involvement in synthetic CDOs/CLOs generally 
includes purchasing credit protection through credit default swaps with 
the CDO/CLO, owning a portion of the capital structure of the CDO/CLO in 
the form of both unfunded derivative positions (primarily ﬁsuper-seniorﬂ 

exposures discussed below) and funded notes, entering into interest-rate 
swap and total-return swap transactions with the CDO/CLO, lending to the 
CDO/CLO, and making a market in the funded notes.Where a CDO/CLO entity issues preferred shares (or subordinated notes that are the equivalent form), the preferred shares generally represent an 
insufficient amount of equity (less than 10%) and create the presumption 
that preferred shares are insufficient to finance the entity™s activities 

without subordinated financial support. In addition, although the preferred 
shareholders generally have full exposure to expected losses on the collateral 
and uncapped potential to receive expected residual returns, they generally 
do not have the ability to make decisions significantly affecting the entity™s 

financial results because of their limited role in making day-to-day decisions 
and their limited ability to remove the asset manager. Because one or both 

of the above conditions will generally be met, the Company has concluded, 
even where a CDO/CLO entity issued preferred shares, the entity should be 
classified as a VIE.In general, the asset manager, through its ability to purchase and sell 
assets orŠwhere the reinvestment period of a CDO/CLO has expiredŠthe 
ability to sell assets, will have the power to direct the activities of the entity 
that most significantly impact the economic performance of the CDO/CLO. 
However, where a CDO/CLO has experienced an event of default or an 

optional redemption period has gone into effect, the activities of the asset 
manager may be curtailed and/or certain additional rights will generally be 
provided to the investors in a CDO/CLO entity, including the right to direct 

the liquidation of the CDO/CLO entity.
The Company has retained significant portions of the ﬁsuper-seniorﬂ 
positions issued by certain CDOs. These positions are referred to as ﬁsuper-

seniorﬂ because they represent the most senior positions in the CDO and, at 
the time of structuring, were senior to tranches rated AAA by independent 
rating agencies.The Company does not generally have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
CDOs/CLOs, as this power is generally held by a third-party asset manager 
of the CDO/CLO. As such, those CDOs/CLOs are not consolidated. The 
Company may consolidate the CDO/CLO when: (i) the Company is the asset 
manager and no other single investor has the unilateral ability to remove 
the Company or unilaterally cause the liquidation of the CDO/CLO, or the 
Company is not the asset manager but has a unilateral right to remove the 
third-party asset manager or unilaterally liquidate the CDO/CLO and receive 
the underlying assets, and (ii) the Company has economic exposure to the 
entity that could be potentially significant to the entity.
254The Company continues to monitor its involvement in unconsolidated CDOs/CLOs to assess future consolidation risk. For example, if the Company were to acquire additional interests in these entities and obtain the right, due 
to an event of default trigger being met, to unilaterally liquidate or direct 
the activities of a CDO/CLO, the Company may be required to consolidate 
the asset entity. For cash CDOs/CLOs, the net result of such consolidation 

would be to gross up the Company™s balance sheet by the current fair value 

of the securities held by third parties and assets held by the CDO/CLO, which 
amounts are not considered material. For synthetic CDOs/CLOs, the net result 
of such consolidation may reduce the Company™s balance sheet, because 

intercompany derivative receivables and payables would be eliminated in 
consolidation, and other assets held by the CDO/CLO and the securities held 
by third parties would be recognized at their current fair values.Key Assumptions and Retained InterestsŠCiti HoldingsAt December 31, 2013 and 2012, the key assumptions used to value retained 
interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 10% and 
20% are set forth in the tables below:December 31, 2013
CDOsCLOs
44.3% to 48.7%1.3% to 1.5%December 31, 2012
CDOsCLOs
ƒƒDecember 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsCDOsCLOsCarrying value of retained interests
$19$1,365
$(1)$(7)(2)(14)December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsCDOsCLOsCarrying value of retained interests

––—ˆ–—†–Asset-Based Financing
The Company provides loans and other forms of financing to VIEs that hold 
assets. Those loans are subject to the same credit approvals as all other loans 
originated or purchased by the Company. Financings in the form of debt 
securities or derivatives are, in most circumstances, reported in Trading account assets and accounted for at fair value through earnings. The 
Company generally does not have the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact these VIEs™ economic performance and thus it does not 
consolidate them.Asset-Based FinancingŠCiticorpThe primary types of Citicorp™s asset-based financings, total assets of the 
unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement and the Company™s 
maximum exposure to loss at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are shown below. 
For the Company to realize the maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would 
have to default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.December 31, 2013
In billions of dollarsTotal 
 unconsolidated  VIE assetsMaximum   exposure to 
 unconsolidated VIEsType

$14.0$3.9
2.21.8ŠŠ
28.713.2Total
$44.9$18.9December 31, 2012
In billions of dollarsTotal 
 unconsolidated  VIE assetsMaximum   exposure to  
 unconsolidated VIEsType


ˆ˝ˇ

Total
ˇ“˝ˇ255The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:In billions of dollars2013
$0.5
˙
$0.7At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the key assumption used to value retained interests, and the sensitivity of the fair value to adverse changes of 
10% and 20% are set forth in the tables below:December 31, 2013


3.0%ƒDecember 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsAsset-based financingCarrying value of retained interests
$1,316Š
$(11)(23)December 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsAsset-based financingCarrying value of retained interests
Š
–—††–Asset-Based FinancingŠCiti Holdings
The primary types of Citi Holdings™ asset-based financing, total assets of 
the unconsolidated VIEs with significant involvement and the Company™s 
maximum exposure to loss at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are shown below. 
For the Company to realize the maximum loss, the VIE (borrower) would 
have to default with no recovery from the assets held by the VIE.December 31, 2013
In billions of dollarsTotal 
 unconsolidated  VIE assetsMaximum  exposure to 
 unconsolidated VIEsType

$0.8$0.3
0.10.1
2.60.5Total
$3.5$0.9December 31, 2012
In billions of dollarsTotal 
 unconsolidated  VIE assetsMaximum  exposure to  
 unconsolidated VIEsType




Total
The following table summarizes selected cash flow information related to asset-based financings for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:In billions of dollars2013
˙
$0.2At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the effects of adverse changes of 10% and 20% in the discount rate used to determine the fair value of retained interests 
are set forth in the tables below:December 31, 2013
In millions of dollarsAsset-based financingCarrying value of retained interests
$95Š
$ŠŠDecember 31, 2012
In millions of dollarsAsset-based financingCarrying value of retained interests
ˆˆ⁄Š
‚‚256Municipal Securities Tender Option Bond (TOB) TrustsTOB trusts hold fixed- and floating-rate, taxable and tax-exempt securities 
issued by state and local governments and municipalities. The trusts are 
typically single-issuer trusts whose assets are purchased from the Company 
or from other investors in the municipal securities market. The TOB trusts 
fund the purchase of their assets by issuing long-term, putable floating rate 
certificates (Floaters) and residual certificates (Residuals). The trusts are 
referred to as TOB trusts because the Floater holders have the ability to tender 
their interests periodically back to the issuing trust, as described further 
below. The Floaters and Residuals evidence beneficial ownership interests in, 
and are collateralized by, the underlying assets of the trust. The Floaters are 
held by third-party investors, typically tax-exempt money market funds. The 
Residuals are typically held by the original owner of the municipal securities 
being financed.The Floaters and the Residuals have a tenor that is equal to or shorter than the tenor of the underlying municipal bonds. The Residuals entitle their 
holders to the residual cash flows from the issuing trust, the interest income 
generated by the underlying municipal securities net of interest paid on the 
Floaters, and trust expenses. The Residuals are rated based on the long-term 
rating of the underlying municipal bond. The Floaters bear variable interest 
rates that are reset periodically to a new market rate based on a spread to a 
high grade, short-term, tax-exempt index. The Floaters have a long-term 
rating based on the long-term rating of the underlying municipal bond and 
a short-term rating based on that of the liquidity provider to the trust.There are two kinds of TOB trusts: customer TOB trusts and non-customer TOB trusts. Customer TOB trusts are trusts through which customers 
finance their investments in municipal securities. The Residuals are held 
by customers and the Floaters by third-party investors, typically tax-exempt 
money market funds. Non-customer TOB trusts are trusts through which 
the Company finances its own investments in municipal securities. In such 
trusts, the Company holds the Residuals, and third-party investors, typically 
tax-exempt money market funds, hold the Floaters.The Company serves as remarketing agent to the trusts, placing the Floaters with third-party investors at inception, facilitating the periodic reset 
of the variable rate of interest on the Floaters, and remarketing any tendered 
Floaters. If Floaters are tendered and the Company (in its role as remarketing 
agent) is unable to find a new investor within a specified period of time, it 
can declare a failed remarketing, in which case the trust is unwound. The 
Company may, but is not obligated to, buy the Floaters into its own inventory. 

The level of the Company™s inventory of Floaters fluctuates over time. At 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company held $176 million and $203 
million, respectively, of Floaters related to both customer and non-customer 

TOB trusts.For certain non-customer trusts, the Company also provides credit enhancement. At December 31, 2013 and 2012 approximately $230 million 
and $184 million, respectively, of the municipal bonds owned by TOB trusts 

have a credit guarantee provided by the Company.
The Company provides liquidity to many of the outstanding trusts. If a trust is unwound early due to an event other than a credit event on the 
underlying municipal bond, the underlying municipal bonds are sold in the 
market. If there is a shortfall in the trust™s cash flows between the redemption 

price of the tendered Floaters and the proceeds from the sale of the 
underlying municipal bonds, the trust draws on a liquidity agreement in an 
amount equal to the shortfall. For customer TOBs where the Residual is less 
than 25% of the trust™s capital structure, the Company has a reimbursement 

agreement with the Residual holder under which the Residual holder 
reimburses the Company for any payment made under the liquidity 
arrangement. Through this reimbursement agreement, the Residual holder 
remains economically exposed to fluctuations in value of the underlying 
municipal bonds. These reimbursement agreements are generally subject 
to daily margining based on changes in value of the underlying municipal 
bond. In cases where a third party provides liquidity to a non-customer TOB 
trust, a similar reimbursement arrangement is made whereby the Company 
(or a consolidated subsidiary of the Company) as Residual holder absorbs 
any losses incurred by the liquidity provider.
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, liquidity agreements provided with respect to customer TOB trusts totaled $3.9 billion and $4.9 billion, 
respectively, of which $2.8 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, were offset 

by reimbursement agreements. For the remaining exposure related to TOB 
transactions, where the Residual owned by the customer was at least 25% 
of the bond value at the inception of the transaction, no reimbursement 
agreement was executed. The Company also provides other liquidity 
agreements or letters of credit to customer-sponsored municipal investment 

funds, which are not variable interest entities, and municipality-related 
issuers that totaled $5.4 billion and $6.4 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 
2012, respectively. These liquidity agreements and letters of credit are offset 

by reimbursement agreements with various term-out provisions.The Company considers the customer and non-customer TOB trusts to be VIEs. Customer TOB trusts are not consolidated by the Company. The 

Company has concluded that the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the economic performance of the customer TOB trusts 
is primarily held by the customer Residual holder, which may unilaterally 

cause the sale of the trust™s
 bonds.Non-customer TOB trusts generally are consolidated. Similar to customer TOB trusts, the Company has concluded that the power over the non-
customer TOB trusts is primarily held by the Residual holder, which may 

unilaterally cause the sale of the trust™s bonds. Because the Company holds 

the Residual interest, and thus has the power to direct the activities that most 
significantly impact the trust™s economic performance, it consolidates the 

non-customer TOB trusts.257Municipal InvestmentsMunicipal investment transactions include debt and equity interests in 
partnerships that finance the construction and rehabilitation of low-income 
housing, facilitate lending in new or underserved markets, or finance 
the construction or operation of renewable municipal energy facilities. 
The Company generally invests in these partnerships as a limited partner 
and earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits and grants 
earned from the investments made by the partnership. The Company may 
also provide construction loans or permanent loans for the development or 
operations of real estate properties held by partnerships. These entities are 
generally considered VIEs. The power to direct the activities of these entities 
is typically held by the general partner. Accordingly, these entities are not 
consolidated by the Company.Client IntermediationClient intermediation transactions represent a range of transactions 
designed to provide investors with specified returns based on the returns 
of an underlying security, referenced asset or index. These transactions 
include credit-linked notes and equity-linked notes. In these transactions, 
the VIE typically obtains exposure to the underlying security, referenced 
asset or index through a derivative instrument, such as a total-return swap 
or a credit-default swap. In turn the VIE issues notes to investors that pay a 
return based on the specified underlying security, referenced asset or index. 
The VIE invests the proceeds in a financial asset or a guaranteed insurance 
contract that serves as collateral for the derivative contract over the term of 
the transaction. The Company™s involvement in these transactions includes 
being the counterparty to the VIE™s derivative instruments and investing in a 
portion of the notes issued by the VIE. In certain transactions, the investor™s 
maximum risk of loss is limited and the Company absorbs risk of loss above 
a specified level. The Company does not have the power to direct the activities 
of the VIEs that most significantly impact their economic performance and 
thus it does not consolidate them.The Company™s maximum risk of loss in these transactions is defined 
as the amount invested in notes issued by the VIE and the notional amount 
of any risk of loss absorbed by the Company through a separate instrument 
issued by the VIE. The derivative instrument held by the Company may 
generate a receivable from the VIE (for example, where the Company 
purchases credit protection from the VIE in connection with the VIE™s 

issuance of a credit-linked note), which is collateralized by the assets 
owned by the VIE. These derivative instruments are not considered variable 
interests and any associated receivables are not included in the calculation of 
maximum exposure to the VIE.Investment Funds
The Company is the investment manager for certain investment funds 
and retirement funds that invest in various asset classes including private 
equity, hedge funds, real estate, fixed income and infrastructure. The 
Company earns a management fee, which is a percentage of capital under 
management, and may earn performance fees. In addition, for some of these 
funds the Company has an ownership interest in the investment funds. The 
Company has also established a number of investment funds as opportunities 
for qualified employees to invest in private equity investments. The Company 
acts as investment manager to these funds and may provide employees with 
financing on both recourse and non-recourse bases for a portion of the 
employees™ investment commitments.The Company has determined that a majority of the investment entities managed by Citigroup are provided a deferral from the requirements of SFAS 

167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
, because they meet the 
criteria in Accounting Standards Update No. 2010-10, Consolidation (Topic 
810), Amendments for Certain Investment Funds (ASU 2010-10). These entities continue to be evaluated under the requirements of ASC 810-10, prior 
to the implementation of SFAS 167 (FIN 46(R), 
Consolidation of Variable 

Interest Entities), which required that a VIE be consolidated by the party with 
a variable interest that will absorb a majority of the entity™s expected losses or 

residual returns, or both.Trust Preferred SecuritiesThe Company has raised financing through the issuance of trust preferred 
securities. In these transactions, the Company forms a statutory business trust 

and owns all of the voting equity shares of the trust. The trust issues preferred 
equity securities to third-party investors and invests the gross proceeds in 
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Company. 
The trusts have no assets, operations, revenues or cash flows other than those 
related to the issuance, administration and repayment of the preferred equity 
securities held by third-party investors. Obligations of the trusts are fully and 
unconditionally guaranteed by the Company.Because the sole asset of each of the trusts is a receivable from the Company and the proceeds to the Company from the receivable exceed 
the Company™s investment in the VIE™s equity shares, the Company is not 

permitted to consolidate the trusts, even though it owns all of the voting 
equity shares of the trust, has fully guaranteed the trusts™ obligations, and 
has the right to redeem the preferred securities in certain circumstances. 
The Company recognizes the subordinated debentures on its Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as long-term liabilities. For additional information, see Note 
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.25823. DERIVATIVES ACTIVITIESIn the ordinary course of business, Citigroup enters into various types of derivative transactions. These derivative transactions include:Futures and forward contracts, which are commitments to buy or sell at a future date a financial instrument, commodity or currency at a 
contracted price and may be settled in cash or through delivery.Swap contracts, which are commitments to settle in cash at a future date 
or dates that may range from a few days to a number of years, based on 
differentials between specified financial indices, as applied to a notional 
principal amount.Option contracts, which give the purchaser, for a premium, the right, 
but not the obligation, to buy or sell within a specified time a financial 
instrument, commodity or currency at a contracted price that may also be 
settled in cash, based on differentials between specified indices or prices.The swap and forward contracts are over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives 
that are bilaterally negotiated with counterparties and settled with those counterparties, except for swap contracts that are novated and ﬁclearedﬂ 
through central counterparties (CCPs). Futures and option contracts are 
generally standardized contracts that are traded on an exchange with a CCP 
as the counterparty from the inception of the transaction. Citigroup enters 
into these derivative contracts relating to interest rate, foreign currency, 

commodity and other market/credit risks for the following reasons:Trading PurposesŠCustomer Needs: Citigroup offers its customers derivatives in connection with their risk-management actions to 
transfer, modify or reduce their interest rate, foreign exchange and other 
market/credit risks or for their own trading purposes. As part of this 
process, Citigroup considers the customers™ suitability for the risk involved 
and the business purpose for the transaction. Citigroup also manages its 
derivative risk positions through offsetting trade activities, controls focused 

on price verification, and daily reporting of positions to senior managers.Trading PurposesŠCitigroup trades derivatives as an active market 
maker. Trading limits and price verification controls are key aspects of 
this activity.HedgingŠCitigroup uses derivatives in connection with its risk-
management activities to hedge certain risks or reposition the risk profile 
of the Company. For example, Citigroup issues fixed-rate long-term 
debt and then enters into a receive-fixed, pay-variable-rate interest rate 
swap with the same tenor and notional amount to convert the interest 
payments to a net variable-rate basis. This strategy is the most common 
form of an interest rate hedge, as it minimizes interest cost in certain yield 
curve environments. Derivatives are also used to manage risks inherent 
in specific groups of on-balance-sheet assets and liabilities, including 
AFS securities and borrowings, as well as other interest-sensitive assets 
and liabilities. In addition, foreign-exchange contracts are used to hedge 
non-U.S.-dollar-denominated debt, foreign-currency-denominated AFS 
securities and net investment exposures.Derivatives may expose Citigroup to market, credit or liquidity risks in excess of the amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Market 
risk on a derivative product is the exposure created by potential fluctuations 
in interest rates, foreign-exchange rates and other factors and is a function 
of the type of product, the volume of transactions, the tenor and terms of the 
agreement and the underlying volatility. Credit risk is the exposure to loss 

in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the transaction where 
the value of any collateral held is not adequate to cover such losses. The 
recognition in earnings of unrealized gains on these transactions is subject 
to management™s assessment as to collectability. Liquidity risk is the potential 

exposure that arises when the size of the derivative position may not be able 
to be rapidly adjusted at a reasonable cost in periods of high volatility and 
financial stress.Derivative transactions are customarily documented under industry standard master agreements and credit support annexes, which provide 
that following an uncured payment default or other event of default the 
non-defaulting party may promptly terminate all transactions between the 
parties and determine a net amount due to be paid to, or by, the defaulting 

party. Events of default generally include: (i)
 failure to make a payment 
on a derivatives transaction (which remains uncured following applicable 
notice and grace periods), (ii) breach of a covenant (which remains uncured 
after applicable notice and grace periods), (iii) breach of a representation, 
(iv) cross default, either to third-party debt or to another derivatives 
transaction entered into among the parties, or, in some cases, their affiliates, 

(v) the occurrence of a merger or consolidation which results in a party 
becoming a materially weaker credit, and (vi) the cessation or repudiation 
of any applicable guarantee or other credit support document. An event of 
default may also occur under a credit support annex if a party fails to make 
a collateral delivery (which remains uncured following applicable notice and 
grace periods).The enforceability of offsetting rights incorporated in the master netting agreements for derivative transactions is evidenced to the extent that a 
supportive legal opinion has been obtained from counsel of recognized 
standing that provides the requisite level of certainty regarding the 
enforceability of these agreements and that the exercise of rights by the non-
defaulting party to terminate and close-out transactions on a net basis under 
these agreements will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law upon an 
event of default including bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding.
A legal opinion may not have been sought or obtained for certain jurisdictions where local law is silent or sufficiently ambiguous to determine 
the enforceability of offsetting rights or where adverse case law or conflicting 
regulation may cast doubt on the enforceability of such rights. In some 
jurisdictions and for some counterparty types, the insolvency law for a 
particular counterparty type may be nonexistent or unclear as overlapping 
regimes may exist. For example, this may be the case for certain sovereigns, 
municipalities, central banks and U.S. pension plans.259Exposure to credit risk on derivatives is impacted by market volatility, 
which may impair the ability of clients to satisfy their obligations to the Company. Credit limits are established and closely monitored for customers 

engaged in derivatives transactions. Citi considers the level of legal certainty 
regarding enforceability of its offsetting rights under master netting 
agreements and credit support annexes to be an important factor in its risk 
management process. For example, because derivatives executed under 
master netting agreements where Citi does not have the requisite level of 
legal certainty regarding enforceability, consume much greater amounts 

of single counterparty credit limits, than those executed under enforceable 
master netting agreements, Citi generally transacts much lower volumes of 
derivatives under master netting agreements where Citi does not have the 
requisite level of legal certainty regarding enforceability.
Cash collateral and security collateral in the form of G10 government debt securities generally is posted to secure the net open exposure of 
derivative transactions, at a counterparty level, whereby the receiving party 
is free to commingle/rehypothecate such collateral in the ordinary course 
of its business. Nonstandard collateral such as corporate bonds, municipal 
bonds, U.S. agency securities and/or MBS may also be pledged as collateral 
for derivative transactions. Security collateral posted to open and maintain 
a master netting agreement with a counterparty, in the form of cash and 

securities, may from time to time be segregated in an account at a third-party 
custodian pursuant to a tri-party Account Control Agreement.260Information pertaining to the volume of derivative activity is provided in the table below. The notional amounts, for both long and short derivative positions, of Citigroup™s derivative instruments as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 are presented in the table below.Derivative NotionalsHedging instruments under ASC 815 (SFAS
 133) (1)(2)Other derivative instruments
Trading derivatives
Management hedges (3)In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013ˇDecember 31, 2013ˇDecember 31, 2013ˇInterest rate contracts
$150,823$36,352,196$93,286
206,129,74261,398Š4,105,6323,103Š3,971,6973,185Total interest rate contract notionals
$150,843$50,559,267$160,972Foreign exchange contracts

$22,402$1,552,292$20,013
79,6463,728,51114,2261011,037,433Š1061,029,87271Total foreign exchange contract notionals
$102,255$7,348,108$34,310Equity contracts
$ Š$100,019$ Š
Š23,161ŠŠ333,945ŠŠ266,570ŠTotal equity contract notionals
$ Š$723,695$ ŠCommodity and other contracts
$ Š$22,978$ Š
Š98,265ŠŠ100,482ŠŠ97,626ŠTotal commodity and other contract notionals
$ Š$319,351$ ŠCredit derivatives
 (4)$Š$1,143,363$ Š951,195,22319,744Total credit derivatives
$ 95$2,338,586$19,744Total derivative notionals
$253,193$61,289,007$215,026ˇ
ˇ
ˇ–ˇ

ˇ
ˇˇ
ˇ–›
ˇ
ˇ
ˇOther assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities


ˇˇ

Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities

ˇˇ

ˇˇ


The following tables present the gross and net fair values of the Company™s derivative transactions, and the related offsetting amount 

permitted under ASC 210-20-45 and 815-10-45, as of December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012. Under ASC 210-20-45, gross positive fair values 
are offset against gross negative fair values by counterparty pursuant to 
enforceable master netting agreements. Under ASC 815-10-45, payables 
and receivables in respect of cash collateral received from or paid to a given counterparty pursuant to an enforceable credit support annex are included in 
the offsetting amount. GAAP does not permit offsetting for security collateral 
posted. The table also includes amounts that are not permitted to be offset 
under ASC 210-20-45 and 815-10-45, such as security collateral posted or 
cash collateral posted at third-party custodians, but would be eligible for 
offsetting to the extent an event of default occurred and a legal opinion 
supporting enforceability of the offsetting rights has been obtained.261Derivative Mark-to-Market (MTM) Receivables/PayablesIn millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Derivatives classified in Trading 
accounts assets / liabilitiesˇ(1)(2)(3)Derivatives classified in Other
 assets / liabilitiesˇ(2)(3)Derivatives instruments designated as ASC
 815 (SFAS
 133) hedgesAssetsLiabilitiesAssetsLiabilities‚⁄˚ˆ
$956$306$3,082$8542,5055855ŠŠŠŠŠInterest rate contracts$3,461$891$3,087$854‚⁄˚ˆ
$1,540$1,244$989$293ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠForeign exchange contracts
$1,540$1,244$989$293‚⁄˚ˆ
$Š$Š$Š$2ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠCredit Derivatives
$Š$Š$Š$2Total derivative instruments designated as ASC
 815 (SFAS
 133) hedges$5,001$2,135$4,076$1,149Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC
 815 (SFAS
 133) hedges‚⁄˚ˆ
$314,250$297,589$37$9310,636318,7162753330ŠŠInterest rate contracts$624,919$616,335$64$14‚⁄˚ˆ
$90,965$87,336$79$312ŠŠ4855ŠŠForeign exchange contracts
$91,014$87,393$79$3‚⁄˚ˆ
$19,080$28,458$Š$ŠŠŠŠŠ5,7975,834ŠŠEquity contracts$24,877$34,292$Š$Š‚⁄˚ˆ
$7,921$9,059$Š$ŠŠŠŠŠ1,1611,111ŠŠCommodity and other contracts$9,082$10,170$Š$Š‚⁄˚ˆ
$38,496$38,247$71$5631,8502,547ŠŠŠŠŠŠCredit derivatives
ˇ(4)$40,346$40,794$71$563Total derivatives instruments not designated as ASC
 815 (SFAS
 133) hedges$790,238$788,984$214$580Total derivatives
$795,239$791,119$4,290$1,729
$6,073$8,827$82$282‡
(713,598)(713,598)ŠŠ
(34,893)(39,094)(2,951)ŠNet receivables/payables included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
ˇ(9)$52,821$47,254$1,421$2,011Additional amounts subject to an enforceable master netting agreement  but not offset on the Consolidated Balance SheetLess: Does not meet applicable offsetting guidance$Š$Š$Š$ŠLess: Cash collateral received/paid(365)(5)ŠŠLess: Non-cash collateral received/paid(7,478)(3,345)(341)ŠTotal Net receivables/payables
ˇ(9)$44,978$43,904$1,080$2,011262ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities
›ˇ‚⁄˚ˆ

›
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ–›
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ–›

ˇ‡ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

–›
ˇ‡


ˇˇ–›
ˇ
ˇ‡
263In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Derivatives classified in Trading
accounts assets / liabilitiesˇ(1)(2)(3)Derivatives classified in Other 
 assets / liabilitiesˇ(2)(3)Derivatives instruments designated as ASC 815 (SFAS
 133) hedgesAssetsLiabilitiesAssetsLiabilities‚⁄˚ˆ
˘Interest Rate contracts‚⁄˚ˆ
Foreign exchange contracts
‚⁄˚ˆ
Credit derivatives
Total derivative instruments designated as ASC 815 (SFAS
 133) hedgesDerivatives instruments not designated as ASC 815 (SFAS
 133) hedges‚⁄˚ˆ
Interest Rate contracts‚⁄˚ˆ
Foreign exchange contracts
‚⁄˚ˆ
Equity contracts‚⁄˚ˆ
Commodity and other contracts‚⁄˚ˆ
Credit derivatives
ˇ(4)Total Derivatives instruments not designated as ASC 815 (SFAS
 133) hedgesTotal derivatives

‡

Net receivables/payables included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
ˇ(9)Additional amounts subject to an enforceable master netting agreement  but not offset on the Consolidated Balance SheetLess: Does not meet applicable offsetting guidanceLess: Cash collateral received/paidLess: Non-cash collateral received/paidTotal Net receivables/payables
ˇ(9)ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
Other assets/Other liabilities
Trading account assets/Trading account liabilities
›ˇ‚⁄˚ˆ

›
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ

ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ–›
ˇ
ˇ
ˇ
ˇˇ–›
ˇ
ˇ‡
ˇ‡
ˇ
ˇˇ–‡
264The amounts recognized in Principal transactions in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 related to derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship as 
well as the underlying non-derivative instruments are presented in Note 6 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Citigroup presents this disclosure 
by business classification, showing derivative gains and losses related to its 
trading activities together with gains and losses related to non-derivative 
instruments within the same trading portfolios, as this represents the way 
these portfolios are risk managed.The amounts recognized in Other revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 related to 
derivatives not designated in a qualifying hedging relationship are shown 
below. The table below does not include the offsetting gains/losses on the 

hedged items, which amounts are also recorded in Other revenue.Gains (losses) included in Other revenue
 Year ended December 31, 
In millions of dollars2013
$(376)221
(595)Total Citigroup
$(750)Accounting for Derivative HedgingCitigroup accounts for its hedging activities in accordance with ASC 815, 
Derivatives and Hedging (formerly SFAS 133). As a general rule, hedge 
accounting is permitted where the Company is exposed to a particular risk, 
such as interest-rate or foreign-exchange risk, that causes changes in the 
fair value of an asset or liability or variability in the expected future cash 
flows of an existing asset, liability or a forecasted transaction that may 
affect earnings.Derivative contracts hedging the risks associated with the changes in fair value are referred to as fair value hedges, while contracts hedging the risks 
affecting the expected future cash flows are called cash flow hedges. Hedges 
that utilize derivatives or debt instruments to manage the foreign exchange 
risk associated with equity investments in non-U.S.-dollar-functional-

currency foreign subsidiaries (net investment in a foreign operation) are 
called net investment hedges.If certain hedging criteria specified in ASC 815 are met, including testing for hedge effectiveness, special hedge accounting may be applied. The hedge 
effectiveness assessment methodologies for similar hedges are performed 
in a similar manner and are used consistently throughout the hedging 
relationships. For fair value hedges, the changes in value of the hedging 
derivative, as well as the changes in value of the related hedged item due to 
the risk being hedged, are reflected in current earnings. For cash flow hedges 
and net investment hedges, the changes in value of the hedging derivative are 
reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Citigroup™s 
stockholders™ equity, to the extent the hedge is effective. Hedge ineffectiveness, 

in either case, is reflected in current earnings.For asset/liability management hedging, the fixed-rate long-term debt would be recorded at amortized cost under current GAAP. However, by electing 

to use ASC 815 (SFAS
 133) fair value hedge accounting, the carrying value 
of the debt is adjusted for changes in the benchmark interest rate, with any 
such changes in value recorded in current earnings. The related interest-rate 
swap also is recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with any changes 
in fair value reflected in earnings. Thus, any ineffectiveness resulting from 
the hedging relationship is recorded in current earnings. Alternatively, a 

management hedge, which does not meet the ASC 815 hedging criteria, 
would involve recording only the derivative at fair value on the balance sheet, 
with its associated changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The debt would 
continue to be carried at amortized cost and, therefore, current earnings 
would be impacted only by the interest rate shifts and other factors that cause 
the change in the swap™s value and may change the underlying yield of the 

debt. This type of hedge is undertaken when hedging requirements cannot 
be achieved or management decides not to apply ASC 815 hedge accounting. 
Another alternative for the Company is to elect to carry the debt at fair 
value under the fair value option. Once the irrevocable election is made 
upon issuance of the debt, the full change in fair value of the debt would 
be reported in earnings. The related interest rate swap, with changes in fair 
value, would also be reflected in earnings, and provides a natural offset to the 
debt™s fair value change. To the extent the two offsets are not exactly equal, 

the difference is reflected in current earnings.265Key aspects of achieving ASC 815 hedge accounting are documentation of hedging strategy and hedge effectiveness at the hedge inception and substantiating hedge effectiveness on an ongoing basis. A derivative must 
be highly effective in accomplishing the hedge objective of offsetting either 
changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item for the risk 
being hedged. Any ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship is recognized 
in current earnings. The assessment of effectiveness excludes changes in 
the value of the hedged item that are unrelated to the risks being hedged. 
Similarly, the assessment of effectiveness may exclude changes in the fair 

value of a derivative related to time value that, if excluded, are recognized in 
current earnings.Fair Value HedgesHedging of benchmark interest rate risk
Citigroup hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of outstanding 
fixed-rate issued debt and certificates of deposit. Depending on the risk 
management objectives, these types of hedges are designated as either fair 
value hedges of only the benchmark interest rate risk or fair value hedges 
of both the benchmark interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The fixed 
cash flows from those financing transactions are converted to benchmark 
variable-rate cash flows by entering into, respectively, receive-fixed, pay-
variable interest rate swaps or receive-fixed in non-functional currency, pay 
variable in functional currency swaps. These fair value hedge relationships 
use either regression or dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine whether 
the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an 
ongoing basis.Citigroup also hedges exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate assets, including available-for-sale debt securities and loans. When 

certain interest rates do not qualify as a benchmark interest rate, Citigroup 
designates the risk being hedged as the risk of changes in overall fair value. 
The hedging instruments used are receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate 
swaps. These fair value hedging relationships use either regression or dollar-

offset ratio analysis to determine whether the hedging relationships are 
highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis.Hedging of foreign exchange riskCitigroup hedges the change in fair value attributable to foreign-exchange 
rate movements in available-for-sale securities that are denominated in 
currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the 
securities, which may be within or outside the U.S. The hedging instrument 
employed is a forward foreign-exchange contract. In this type of hedge, the 
change in fair value of the hedged available-for-sale security attributable 
to the portion of foreign exchange risk hedged is reported in earnings and 
not Accumulated other comprehensive incomeŠa process that serves 
to offset substantially the change in fair value of the forward contract that 
is also reflected in earnings. Citigroup considers the premium associated 
with forward contracts (differential between spot and contractual forward 
rates) as the cost of hedging; this is excluded from the assessment of hedge 
effectiveness and reflected directly in earnings. The dollar-offset method is 
used to assess hedge effectiveness. Since that assessment is based on changes 
in fair value attributable to changes in spot rates on both the available-for-
sale securities and the forward contracts for the portion of the relationship 
hedged, the amount of hedge ineffectiveness is not significant.266The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Company™s fair value hedges for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011:Gains (losses) on fair value hedges
 Year ended December 31,
 (1)In millions of dollars2013Gain (loss) on derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$(3,288)265Total gain (loss) on the derivatives in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(3,023)Gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$3,204(185)Total gain (loss) on the hedged item in designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$3,019Hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges

$(84)(4)Total hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings on designated and qualifying fair value hedges
$(88)Net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges

$Š84Total net gain (loss) excluded from assessment of the effectiveness of fair value hedges
$84ˇOther revenueˇ
Net interest revenue˙š˚›
ˇˇ
ˇ
Cash Flow HedgesHedging of benchmark interest rate risk
Citigroup hedges variable cash flows resulting from floating-rate liabilities 
and rollover (re-issuance) of liabilities. Variable cash flows from those 
liabilities are converted to fixed-rate cash flows by entering into receive-
variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps and receive-variable, pay-fixed 
forward-starting interest rate swaps. Citi also hedges variable cash flows from 
recognized and forecasted floating-rate assets and origination of short-term 
assets. Variable cash flows from those assets are converted to fixed-rate 
cash flows by entering into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps. 
These cash-flow hedging relationships use either regression analysis or 
dollar-offset ratio analysis to assess whether the hedging relationships are 
highly effective at inception and on an ongoing basis. When certain interest 
rates do not qualify as a benchmark interest rate, Citigroup designates the 
risk being hedged as the risk of overall changes in the hedged cash flows. 
Since efforts are made to match the terms of the derivatives to those of the 
hedged forecasted cash flows as closely as possible, the amount of hedge 
ineffectiveness is not significant.Hedging of foreign exchange risk
Citigroup locks in the functional currency equivalent cash flows of long-
term debt and short-term borrowings that are denominated in a currency 
other than the functional currency of the issuing entity. Depending on the 
risk management objectives, these types of hedges are designated as either 
cash flow hedges of only foreign exchange risk or cash flow hedges of both 
foreign exchange and interest rate risk, and the hedging instruments used 
are foreign exchange cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. These 
cash flow hedge relationships use dollar-offset ratio analysis to determine 
whether the hedging relationships are highly effective at inception and on an 
ongoing basis.Hedging of overall changes in cash flowsCitigroup hedges the overall exposure to variability in cash flows related 
to the future acquisition of mortgage-backed securities using ﬁto be 
announcedﬂ forward contracts. Since the hedged transaction is the gross 
settlement of the forward contract, the assessment of hedge effectiveness is 
based on assuring that the terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged 
forecasted transaction are the same.Hedging total returnCitigroup generally manages the risk associated with leveraged loans it 
has originated or in which it participates by transferring a majority of its 
exposure to the market through SPEs prior to or shortly after funding. 
Retained exposures to leveraged loans receivable are generally hedged using 
total return swaps.267The amount of hedge ineffectiveness on the cash flow hedges recognized in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is not significant. The pretax change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) from cash flow hedges is presented below:Year ended December 31,
In millions of dollars2013Effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI

$74934
14Total effective portion of cash flow hedges included in AOCI
$797Effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings


$(700)(176)Total effective portion of cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI to earnings
 (1)$(876)ˇ
Other revenueNet interest revenue 
For cash flow hedges, any changes in the fair value of the end-user derivative remaining in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet will be included in earnings of future 
periods to offset the variability of the hedged cash flows when such cash 
flows affect earnings. The net loss associated with cash flow hedges expected 
to be reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
within 12 months of December 31, 2013 is approximately $0.4 billion. 
The maximum length of time over which forecasted cash flows are hedged 
is 10 years.The after-tax impact of cash flow hedges on AOCI is shown in Note
 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Net Investment HedgesConsistent with ASC 830-20, Foreign Currency MattersŠForeign 
Currency Transactions (formerly SFAS 52, Foreign Currency 
Translation), ASC 815 allows hedging of the foreign currency risk of a net 
investment in a foreign operation. Citigroup uses foreign currency forwards, 
options and foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments to manage 
the foreign exchange risk associated with Citigroup™s equity investments in 
several non-U.S.-dollar-functional-currency foreign subsidiaries. Citigroup 
records the change in the carrying amount of these investments in the 
Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss). Simultaneously, the effective portion 
of the hedge of this exposure is also recorded in the Foreign currency 
translation adjustment account and the ineffective portion, if any, is 
immediately recorded in earnings.For derivatives designated as net investment hedges, Citigroup follows the forward-rate method from FASB Derivative Implementation Group Issue 

H8 (now ASC 815-35-35-16 through 35-26), ﬁForeign Currency Hedges: Measuring the Amount of Ineffectiveness in a Net Investment Hedge.ﬂ 
According to that method, all changes in fair value, including changes 
related to the forward-rate component of the foreign currency forward 
contracts and the time value of foreign currency options, are recorded in the 
Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss).For foreign-currency-denominated debt instruments that are designated as hedges of net investments, the translation gain or loss that is recorded in 
the Foreign currency translation adjustment account is based on the spot 
exchange rate between the functional currency of the respective subsidiary 
and the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of Citigroup. To the 

extent the notional amount of the hedging instrument exactly matches the 
hedged net investment and the underlying exchange rate of the derivative 
hedging instrument relates to the exchange rate between the functional 
currency of the net investment and Citigroup™s functional currency (or, in the 

case of a non-derivative debt instrument, such instrument is denominated in 
the functional currency of the net investment), no ineffectiveness is recorded 
in earnings.The pretax gain (loss) recorded in the Foreign currency translation adjustment account within Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(loss), related to the effective portion of the net investment hedges, is 
$2,370 million, $(3,829) million and $904 million for the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Credit DerivativesA credit derivative is a bilateral contract between a buyer and a seller 
under which the seller agrees to provide protection to the buyer against the 
credit risk of a particular entity (ﬁreference entityﬂ or ﬁreference creditﬂ). 
Credit derivatives generally require that the seller of credit protection make 268payments to the buyer upon the occurrence of predefined credit events (commonly referred to as ﬁsettlement triggersﬂ). These settlement triggers 
are defined by the form of the derivative and the reference credit and are 
generally limited to the market standard of failure to pay on indebtedness 
and bankruptcy of the reference credit and, in a more limited range of 
transactions, debt restructuring. Credit derivative transactions referring to 
emerging market reference credits will also typically include additional 
settlement triggers to cover the acceleration of indebtedness and the risk of 
repudiation or a payment moratorium. In certain transactions, protection 
may be provided on a portfolio of reference credits or asset-backed securities. 
The seller of such protection may not be required to make payment until a 
specified amount of losses has occurred with respect to the portfolio and/or 
may only be required to pay for losses up to a specified amount.The Company is a market maker and trades a range of credit derivatives. Through these contracts, the Company either purchases or writes protection 
on either a single name or a portfolio of reference credits. The Company 
also uses credit derivatives to help mitigate credit risk in its Corporate and 
Consumer loan portfolios and other cash positions, and to facilitate client 
transactions.The range of credit derivatives sold includes credit default swaps, total return swaps, credit options and credit-linked notes.A credit default swap is a contract in which, for a fee, a protection seller agrees to reimburse a protection buyer for any losses that occur due to 
a credit event on a reference entity. If there is no credit default event or 

settlement trigger, as defined by the specific derivative contract, then the 

protection seller makes no payments to the protection buyer and receives only 
the contractually specified fee. However, if a credit event occurs as defined in 

the specific derivative contract sold, the protection seller will be required to 
make a payment to the protection buyer.
A total return swap transfers the total economic performance of a reference asset, which includes all associated cash flows, as well as capital 
appreciation or depreciation. The protection buyer receives a floating rate of 
interest and any depreciation on the reference asset from the protection seller 
and, in return, the protection seller receives the cash flows associated with 
the reference asset plus any appreciation. Thus, according to the total return 
swap agreement, the protection seller will be obligated to make a payment 
any time the floating interest rate payment and any depreciation of the 
reference asset exceed the cash flows associated with the underlying asset. A 
total return swap may terminate upon a default of the reference asset subject 
to the provisions of the related total return swap agreement between the 
protection seller and the protection buyer.
A credit option is a credit derivative that allows investors to trade or hedge changes in the credit quality of the reference asset. For example, in a credit 
spread option, the option writer assumes the obligation to purchase or sell the reference asset at a specified ﬁstrikeﬂ spread level. The option purchaser buys 
the right to sell the reference asset to, or purchase it from, the option writer at 
the strike spread level. The payments on credit spread options depend either 
on a particular credit spread or the price of the underlying credit-sensitive 
asset. The options usually terminate if the underlying assets default.A credit-linked note is a form of credit derivative structured as a debt security with an embedded credit default swap. The purchaser of the note 
writes credit protection to the issuer and receives a return that could be 
negatively affected by credit events on the underlying reference credit. If 
the reference entity defaults, the purchaser of the credit-linked note may 
assume the long position in the debt security and any future cash flows 
from it but will lose the amount paid to the issuer of the credit-linked note. 
Thus, the maximum amount of the exposure is the carrying amount of the 
credit-linked note. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the 
amount of credit-linked notes held by the Company in trading inventory was 
immaterial.The following tables summarize the key characteristics of the Company™s 
credit derivative portfolio as protection seller as of December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012:In millions of dollars at 
 
December 31, 2013
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsFair
 value
 payable
 (1)(2)By industry/counterparty
$727,748$6,520
224,0734,0012,82056188,7222,059Total by industry/counterparty
$1,143,363$12,636By instrument
$1,141,864$12,607•
1,49929Total by instrument
$1,143,363$12,636By rating
$546,011$2,385
170,7897,408
426,5632,843Total by rating
$1,143,363$12,636By maturity
$221,562$858853,3917,49268,4104,286Total by maturity
$1,143,363$12,636ˇ
ˇ
269In millions of dollars at 
 December 31, 201
2Maximum potential amount of future paymentsFair
 value
 payable
 (1)(2)By industry/counterparty

Total by industry/counterparty
By instrument

•
Total by instrument
By rating


Total by rating
By maturity
Total by maturity
ˇ
ˇ
Citigroup evaluates the payment/performance risk of the credit derivatives for which it stands as a protection seller based on the credit rating assigned to the underlying referenced credit. Where external ratings by nationally 
recognized statistical rating organizations (such as Moody™s and S&P) 

are used, investment grade ratings are considered to be Baa/BBB or above, 
while anything below is considered non-investment grade. The Citigroup 
internal ratings are in line with the related external credit rating system. 
On certain underlying reference credits, mainly related to over-the-counter 

credit derivatives, ratings are not available. These are included in the not-
rated category. Credit derivatives written on an underlying non-investment 

grade reference credit represent greater payment risk to the Company. The 

non-investment grade category in the table above primarily includes credit 
derivatives where the underlying referenced entity has been downgraded 
subsequent to the inception of the derivative. On certain underlying 
referenced credits or entities, ratings are not available. Such referenced 
credits are included in the ﬁnot ratedﬂ category and are primarily related to 
credit default swaps and other derivatives referencing investment grade and 
high yield credit index products and customized baskets.The maximum potential amount of future payments under credit derivative contracts presented in the table above is based on the notional 
value of the derivatives. The Company believes that the maximum potential amount of future payments for credit protection sold is not representative of 
the actual loss exposure based on historical experience. This amount has not 
been reduced by the Company™s rights to the underlying assets and the related 

cash flows. In accordance with most credit derivative contracts, should a 
credit event (or settlement trigger) occur, the Company usually is liable for 

the difference between the protection sold and the recourse it holds in the 
value of the underlying assets. Thus, if the reference entity defaults, Citi will 
have a right to collect on the underlying reference credit and any related cash 
flows, while being liable for the full notional amount of credit protection 
sold to the buyer. Furthermore, this maximum potential amount of future 

payments for credit protection sold has not been reduced for any cash 
collateral paid to a given counterparty, as such payments would be calculated 

after netting all derivative exposures, including any credit derivatives with 
that counterparty in accordance with a related master netting agreement. 
Due to such netting processes, determining the amount of collateral that 
corresponds to credit derivative exposures alone is not possible. The Company 
actively monitors open credit-risk exposures and manages this exposure by 
using a variety of strategies, including purchased credit derivatives, cash 
collateral or direct holdings of the referenced assets. This risk mitigation 
activity is not captured in the table above.Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features in DerivativesCertain derivative instruments contain provisions that require the Company 
to either post additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding 
liability balances upon the occurrence of a specified credit-risk-related event. 
These events, which are defined by the existing derivative contracts, are 
primarily downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company and its affiliates. 
The fair value (excluding CVA) of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-
related contingent features that are in a net liability position at December 31, 
2013 and December 31, 2012 was $26 billion and $36 billion, respectively. 
The Company has posted $24 billion and $32 billion as collateral for this 
exposure in the normal course of business as of December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, respectively.Each downgrade would trigger additional collateral or cash settlement requirements for the Company and its affiliates. In the event that each 
legal entity was downgraded a single notch by the three rating agencies 
as of December 31, 2013, the Company would be required to post an 
additional $2.5 billion as either collateral or settlement of the derivative 
transactions. Additionally, the Company would be required to segregate 

with third-party custodians collateral previously received from existing 
derivative counterparties in the amount of $0.1 billion upon the single 
notch downgrade, resulting in aggregate cash obligations and collateral 
requirements of approximately $2.6 billion.27024. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISKConcentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate 
credit exposure is material in relation to Citigroup™s total credit exposure. 
Although Citigroup™s portfolio of financial instruments is broadly diversified 
along industry, product, and geographic lines, material transactions are 
completed with other financial institutions, particularly in the securities 
trading, derivatives and foreign exchange businesses.In connection with the Company™s efforts to maintain a diversified 
portfolio, the Company limits its exposure to any one geographic region, 
country or individual creditor and monitors this exposure on a continuous 
basis. At December 31, 2013, Citigroup™s most significant concentration of 

credit risk was with the U.S. government and its agencies. The Company™s 

exposure, which primarily results from trading assets and investments issued 
by the U.S. government and its agencies, amounted to $168.4 billion and 
$190.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Mexican 

and Japanese governments and their agencies, which are rated investment 
grade by both Moody™s and S&P, were the next largest exposures. The 

Company™s exposure to Mexico amounted to $37.0 billion and $33.6 billion 

at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and was composed of 

investment securities, loans and trading assets. The Company™s exposure to 

Japan amounted to $29.0 billion and $38.7 billion at December 31, 2013 
and 2012, respectively, and was composed of investment securities, loans and 

trading assets.The Company™s exposure to states and municipalities amounted to 
$33.1 billion and $34.1 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, 

and was composed of trading assets, investment securities, derivatives and 
lending activities.27125. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTASC 820-10 (formerly SFAS 157) Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value, establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value and 
requires disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as 
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement 
date. Among other things, the standard requires the Company to maximize 
the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs 
when measuring fair value.Under ASC 820-10, the probability of default of a counterparty is factored into the valuation of derivative positions and includes the impact of 
Citigroup™s own credit risk on derivatives and other liabilities measured at 

fair value.Fair Value HierarchyASC 820-10 specifies a hierarchy of inputs based on whether the inputs are 
observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained 
from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company™s 
market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair 
value hierarchy:
identical instruments in active markets.
similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and 
significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.This hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available. The Company considers relevant and observable market prices in its 
valuations where possible. The frequency of transactions, the size of the bid-
ask spread and the amount of adjustment necessary when comparing similar 
transactions are all factors in determining the liquidity of markets and the 
relevance of observed prices in those markets.The Company™s policy with respect to transfers between levels of the fair 
value hierarchy is to recognize transfers into and out of each level as of the 
end of the reporting period.Determination of Fair ValueFor assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Company measures such 
value using the procedures set out below, irrespective of whether these assets 
and liabilities are carried at fair value as a result of an election or whether 
they are required to be carried at fair value.When available, the Company generally uses quoted market prices to 
where a market price is available, the Company will make use of acceptable 
practical expedients (such as matrix pricing) to calculate fair value, in which 
If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed valuation techniques that use, where possible, current 
market-based parameters, such as interest rates, currency rates, option 
volatilities, etc. Items valued using such internally generated valuation 
techniques are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver 

even though there may be some significant inputs that are readily observable.The Company may also apply a price-based methodology, which utilizes, 
where available, quoted prices or other market information obtained from 
recent trading activity in positions with the same or similar characteristics to 
the position being valued. The market activity and the amount of the bid-ask 
spread are among the factors considered in determining the liquidity of 
markets and the relevance of observed prices from those markets. If relevant 
and observable prices are available, those valuations may be classified as 

stale, a significant adjustment to the price of a similar security is necessary 
to reflect differences in the terms of the actual security or loan being valued, 
or prices from independent sources are insufficient to corroborate the 
valuation, the ﬁpriceﬂ inputs are considered unobservable and the fair value 
Fair value estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices obtained from independent vendors or brokers. 


from observed prices to proprietary valuation models.The following section describes the valuation methodologies used by the Company to measure various financial instruments at fair value, 
including an indication of the level in the fair value hierarchy in which each 
instrument is generally classified. Where appropriate, the description includes 
details of the valuation models, the key inputs to those models and any 
significant assumptions.Market valuation adjustments
value hierarchy to ensure that the fair value reflects the liquidity or illiquidity 
of the market. The liquidity reserve may utilize the bid-offer spread for an 
instrument as one of the factors.Counterparty credit-risk adjustments are applied to derivatives, such as over-the-counter uncollateralized derivatives, where the base valuation uses 

market parameters based on the relevant base interest rate curves. Not all 
counterparties have the same credit risk as that implied by the relevant base 
curve, so it is necessary to consider the market view of the credit risk of a 
counterparty in order to estimate the fair value of such an item.Bilateral or ﬁownﬂ credit-risk adjustments are applied to reflect the Company™s own credit risk when valuing derivatives and liabilities measured 

at fair value. Counterparty and own credit adjustments consider the expected 
future cash flows between Citi and its counterparties under the terms of 
the instrument and the effect of credit risk on the valuation of those cash 
flows, rather than a point-in-time assessment of the current recognized net 
asset or liability. Furthermore, the credit-risk adjustments take into account 

the effect of credit-risk mitigants, such as pledged collateral and any legal 
right of offset (to the extent such offset exists) with a counterparty through 
arrangements such as netting agreements.Generally, the unit of account for a financial instrument is the individual 
financial instrument. The Company applies market valuation adjustments 
that are consistent with the unit of account, which does not include 
adjustment due to the size of the Company™s position, except as follows. 

ASC 820-10 permits an exception, through an accounting policy election, 
to measure the fair value of a portfolio of financial assets and financial 
liabilities on the basis of the net open risk position when certain criteria are 
met. Citi has elected to measure certain portfolios of financial instruments, 
such as derivatives, that meet those criteria on the basis of the net open risk 272position. The Company applies market valuation adjustments, including adjustments to account for the size of the net open risk position, consistent 
with market participant assumptions and in accordance with the unit 
of account.Valuation Process for Fair Value MeasurementsPrice verification procedures and related internal control procedures are 
governed by the Citigroup Pricing and Price Verification Policy and 
Standards, which is jointly owned by Finance and Risk Management. 
Finance has implemented the ICG Securities and Banking Pricing and 
Price Verification Standards and Procedures to facilitate compliance with 
this policy.For fair value measurements of substantially all assets and liabilities held by the Company, individual business units are responsible for valuing 

the trading account assets and liabilities, and Product Control within 
Finance performs independent price verification procedures to evaluate 
those fair value measurements. Product Control is independent of the 
individual business units and reports to the Global Head of Product Control. 
It has authority over the valuation of financial assets and liabilities. Fair 
value measurements of assets and liabilities are determined using various 
techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted cash flows and internal 
models, such as option and correlation models.Based on the observability of inputs used, Product Control classifies the 

a position involves one or more significant inputs that are not directly 
observable, additional price verification procedures are applied. These 
procedures may include reviewing relevant historical data, analyzing profit 
and loss, valuing each component of a structured trade individually, and 

benchmarking, among others.hierarchy are distributed to senior management in Finance, Risk and the 
individual business. This inventory is also discussed in Risk Committees and 
in monthly meetings with senior trading management. As deemed necessary, 

reports may go to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors or to the 
full Board of Directors. Whenever a valuation adjustment is needed to bring 
the price of an asset or liability to its exit price, Product Control reports it to 
management along with other price verification results.In addition, the pricing models used in measuring fair value are governed by an independent control framework. Although the models are developed 
and tested by the individual business units, they are independently validated 


Finance with respect to their impact on the price verification procedures. The 
purpose of this independent control framework is to assess model risk arising 
from models™ theoretical soundness, calibration techniques where needed, 
and the appropriateness of the model for a specific product in a defined 



review process as the valuation models. To ensure their continued 

applicability, models are independently reviewed annually. In addition, 

Risk Management approves and maintains a list of products permitted to be 
valued under each approved model for a given business.Securities purchased under agreements to resell and 
securities sold under agreements to repurchase
No quoted prices exist for such instruments, so fair value is determined using 
a discounted cash-flow technique. Cash flows are estimated based on the 
terms of the contract, taking into account any embedded derivative or other 
features. Expected cash flows are discounted using interest rates appropriate 
to the maturity of the instrument as well as the nature of the underlying 
collateral. Generally, when such instruments are held at fair value, they are 

valuation are readily observable. However, certain long-dated positions are 
Trading account assets and liabilitiesŠtrading securities and trading loans
When available, the Company uses quoted market prices to determine the 

fair value hierarchy. Examples include some government securities and 
exchange-traded equity securities.For bonds and secondary market loans traded over the counter, the 
Company generally determines fair value utilizing valuation techniques, 
including discounted cash flows, price-based and internal models, such 
as Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation. Fair value estimates from 
these internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to prices 


sources and may apply matrix pricing for similar bonds or loans where no 
price is observable. A price-based methodology utilizes, where available, 
quoted prices or other market information obtained from recent trading 
activity of assets with similar characteristics to the bond or loan being valued. 
The yields used in discounted cash flow models are derived from the same 
price information. Trading securities and loans priced using such methods 



security or loan, a quoted price is stale, a significant adjustment to the price 
of a similar security or loan is necessary to reflect differences in the terms of 
the actual security or loan being valued, or prices from independent sources 
are insufficient to corroborate valuation, a loan or security is generally 

be zero for a security, such as a subprime CDO, that is not receiving any 

principal or interest and is currently written down to zero.Where the Company™s principal market for a portfolio of loans is the 
securitization market, the Company uses the securitization price to determine 
the fair value of the portfolio. The securitization price is determined from 
the assumed proceeds of a hypothetical securitization in the current market, 
adjusted for transformation costs (i.e., direct costs other than transaction 
costs) and securitization uncertainties such as market conditions and 
liquidity. As a result of the severe reduction in the level of activity in 

certain securitization markets since the second half of 2007, observable 
securitization prices for certain directly comparable portfolios of loans 
have not been readily available. Therefore, such portfolios of loans are 



loan securitization markets, such as commercial real estate loans, price 
verification of the hypothetical securitizations has been possible, since these 
markets have remained active. Accordingly, this loan portfolio is classified as 


273Trading account assets and liabilitiesŠderivativesExchange-traded derivatives are generally measured at fair value using 

value hierarchy.The majority of derivatives entered into by the Company are executed over the counter and are valued using internal valuation techniques, as no 
quoted market prices exist for such instruments. The valuation techniques 
and inputs depend on the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying 
instrument. The principal techniques used to value these instruments are 
discounted cash flows and internal models, including Black-Scholes and 
Monte Carlo simulation. The fair values of derivative contracts reflect cash 
the Company has paid or received (for example, option premiums paid 
and received).The key inputs depend upon the type of derivative and the nature of the underlying instrument and include interest rate yield curves, 
foreign-exchange rates, volatilities and correlation. The Company uses 
overnight indexed swap (OIS) curves as fair value measurement inputs 
for the valuation of certain collateralized derivatives. Citi uses the relevant 

Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar derivatives) as the discount rate 
for uncollateralized derivatives. Citi has not recognized any valuation 
adjustments to reflect the cost of funding uncollateralized derivative positions 
beyond that implied by the relevant benchmark curve. Citi continues 
to monitor market practices and activity with respect to discounting in 
derivative valuation.depending upon the observability of the significant inputs to the model.Subprime-related direct exposures in CDOsThe valuation of high-grade and mezzanine asset-backed security (ABS) 
CDO positions utilizes prices based on the underlying assets of each high-
grade and mezzanine ABS CDO. The high-grade and mezzanine positions 
are largely hedged through the ABS and bond short positions. This results in 
closer symmetry in the way these long and short positions are valued by the 
Company. Citigroup uses trader marks to value this portion of the portfolio 
and will do so as long as it remains largely hedged.For most of the lending and structured direct subprime exposures, fair value is determined utilizing observable transactions where available, other 
market data for similar assets in markets that are not active and other 
internal valuation techniques.InvestmentsThe investments category includes available-for-sale debt and marketable 
equity securities, whose fair value is generally determined by utilizing similar 
procedures described for trading securities above or, in some cases, using 
consensus pricing as the primary source.Also included in investments are nonpublic investments in private equity and real estate entities held by the S&B business. Determining the fair 
value of nonpublic securities involves a significant degree of management 
resources and judgment, as no quoted prices exist and such securities are 
generally very thinly traded. In addition, there may be transfer restrictions 
on private equity securities. The Company™s process for determining the fair 

value of such securities utilizes commonly accepted valuation techniques, 
including comparables analysis. In determining the fair value of nonpublic 
securities, the Company also considers events such as a proposed sale of the investee company, initial public offerings, equity issuances or other 

observable transactions. As discussed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, the Company uses net asset value to value certain of these 
investments.value hierarchy.
Short-term borrowings and long-term debtWhere fair value accounting has been elected, the fair value of non-
structured liabilities is determined by utilizing internal models using the 
appropriate discount rate for the applicable maturity. Such instruments are 

readily observable.The Company determines the fair value of structured liabilities (where performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation or currency risks) 
and hybrid financial instruments (where performance is linked to risks 
other than interest rates, inflation or currency risks) using the appropriate 
derivative valuation methodology (described above in ﬁTrading account 

assets and liabilitiesŠderivativesﬂ) given the nature of the embedded risk 

observability of significant inputs to the model.Alt-A mortgage securitiesThe Company classifies its Alt-A mortgage securities as held-to-maturity, 
available-for-sale and trading investments. The securities classified as trading 
and available-for-sale are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value 
reported in current earnings and AOCI, respectively. For these purposes, Citi 
defines Alt-A mortgage securities as non-agency residential mortgage-backed 
securities (RMBS) where (i) the underlying collateral has weighted average 
FICO scores between 680 and 720 or (ii) for instances where FICO scores 
are greater than 720, RMBS have 30% or less of the underlying collateral 
composed of full documentation loans.Similar to the valuation methodologies used for other trading securities and trading loans, the Company generally determines the fair values of 
Alt-A mortgage securities utilizing internal valuation techniques. Fair value 
estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, to 
prices obtained from independent vendors. Consensus data providers compile 
prices from various sources. Where available, the Company may also make 
use of quoted prices for recent trading activity in securities with the same or 
similar characteristics to the security being valued.The valuation techniques used for Alt-A mortgage securities, as with other mortgage exposures, are price-based and yield analysis. The primary market-
derived input is yield. Cash flows are based on current collateral performance 
with prepayment rates and loss projections reflective of current economic 
conditions of housing price change, unemployment rates, interest rates, 
borrower attributes and other market indicators.Alt-A mortgage securities that are valued using these methods are 

by Alt-A mortgages of lower quality or subordinated tranches in the capital 

exists for such positions, which reduces the reliability of prices available from 
independent sources.274Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring BasisThe following tables present for each of the fair value hierarchy levels the Company™s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on 
a recurring basis at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. The 
category is not limited to other financial instruments (hedging instruments) 


gross in the following table.Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting(2)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
 agreements to resell$Š$172,848$3,566$176,414$(34,933)$141,481Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
˜˚˛˚
$Š$22,861$1,094$23,955$Š$23,955Š1,2232,8544,077Š4,077Š2,3182562,574Š2,574Total trading mortgage-backed securities
$Š$26,402$4,204$30,606$Š$30,606U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$12,080$2,757$Š$14,837$Š$14,837State and municipalŠ2,9852223,207Š3,207Foreign government
49,22025,22041674,856Š74,856CorporateŠ28,6991,83530,534Š30,534Equity securities58,7611,9581,05761,776Š61,776Asset-backed securitiesŠ1,2744,3425,616Š5,616Other trading assetsŠ8,4913,18411,675Š11,675Total trading non-derivative assets
$120,061$97,786$15,260$233,107$Š$233,107Trading derivatives

$11$624,902$3,467$628,3804091,1891,32592,5545,79317,6111,47324,8775067,7758019,082
Š37,3363,01040,346Total trading derivatives
$6,350$778,813$10,076$795,239Cash collateral paid (3)$6,073Netting agreements$(713,598)Netting of cash collateral received(34,893)Total trading derivatives
$6,350$778,813$10,076$801,312$(748,491)$52,821InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities˜˚˛˚
$Š$41,810$187$41,997$Š$41,997Š10,10310210,205Š10,205Š453Š453Š453Total investment mortgage-backed securities
$Š$52,366$289$52,655$Š$52,655U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
$69,139$18,449$8$87,596$Š$87,596State and municipal$Š$17,297$1,643$18,940$Š$18,940Foreign government
35,17960,94834496,471Š96,471Corporate410,84128511,130Š11,130Equity securities2,5833368153,734Š3,734Asset-backed securitiesŠ13,3141,96015,274Š15,274Other debt securitiesŠ66150711Š711Non-marketable equity securitiesŠ3584,3474,705Š4,705Total investments
$106,905$174,570$9,741$291,216$Š$291,216275In millions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting(2)Net balanceLoans (4)$Š$886$4,143$5,029$Š$5,029Mortgage servicing rights
ŠŠ2,7182,718Š2,718Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
 on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$9,811$181$9,992Cash collateral paid$82Netting of cash collateral received$(2,951)Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
 on a recurring basis$Š$9,811$181$10,074$(2,951)$7,123Total assets
$233,316$1,234,714$45,685$1,519,870$(786,375)$733,495Total as a percentage of gross assets
 (5)15.4%81.6%3.0%LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$Š$787$890$1,677$Š$1,677Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
agreements to repurchase$Š$85,576$902$86,478$(34,933)$51,545Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
51,0359,88359061,50861,508Trading derivatives

$12$614,586$2,628$617,2262987,97863088,6375,78326,1782,33134,2923638,6461,16110,170
Š37,5103,28440,794Total trading derivatives
$6,187$774,898$10,034$791,119Cash collateral received (6)$8,827Netting agreements$(713,598)Netting of cash collateral paid(39,094)Total trading derivatives
$6,187$774,898$10,034$799,946$(752,692)$47,254Short-term borrowings$Š$3,663$29$3,692$Š$3,692Long-term debtŠ20,0806,79726,877Š26,877Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
 on a recurring basis, gross
$Š$1,719$10$1,729Cash collateral received (7)$282Total non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
 on a recurring basis$Š$1,719$10$2,011$2,011Total liabilities
$57,222$896,606$19,252$982,189$(787,625)$194,564Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (5)5.9%92.1%2.0%˝˝
˝˝˝€š

˝
˝˝˝›


˝

˝
˝
˝˝˝˝
˝˙˙
˝

˙
˝
˝
˝


˝
˝
˝
276Fair Value Levels
In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Level 1(1)Level 2(1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting(2)Net balanceAssetsFederal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under 
 agreements to resell‡Œ‡‡‡‡†‡Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed securities
˜˚˛˚
Œ€‹šŁ’…ŒŒ’š⁄™ŁŒ’š⁄™ŁŒŒTotal trading mortgage-backed securities
‡Œ‡‡⁄š€⁄‹‡‡Œ‡U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
‡‡‡Œ‡‡Œ‡State and municipalŒŒForeign government
Ł‹š€’‹ŒŁ‹š€’‹CorporateŒ’…š€€⁄Œ’…š€€⁄Equity securities€™⁄…™š‹‹ŁŒ…™š‹‹ŁAsset-backed securitiesŒŁ‹‹⁄š⁄…’…š’…€Œ…š’…€Other trading assetsŒŒTotal trading non-derivative assets
‡‡‡‡‡Œ‡Trading derivatives

‡€‡Ł‹„š™’…‡‡Ł‹‹š’⁄„„…š’…Ł„™š€„Ł€š’…‹‹š„…€™‹…
Œ⁄‹šŁ…ŁTotal trading derivatives
‡€š„Ł‹‡‡‡Cash collateral paid (3)‡…š…‹„Netting agreements‡†Netting of cash collateral received†Total trading derivatives
‡€š„Ł‹‡‡‡‡†‡InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities˜˚˛˚
‡⁄™‡‡‡⁄„š’⁄…‡Œ‡⁄„š’⁄…Œ„š⁄„€„š™„„Œ„š™„„Œ⁄⁄‹Œ⁄⁄‹Œ⁄⁄‹Total investment mortgage-backed securities
‡⁄™‡…’š„™€‡‡‡Œ‡U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
‡‡„Łš™€…‡‡‡Œ‡State and municipal‡Œ‡‡Ł⁄‹‡‡Œ‡Foreign government
’Ł’ŒCorporateŒ‹š€Ł‹’Ł…‹š™„⁄Œ‹š™„⁄Equity securities„„’⁄š‹⁄€Œ⁄š‹⁄€Asset-backed securitiesŒŒOther debt securitiesŒŒ€…Ł€…ŁŒ€…ŁNon-marketable equity securitiesŒ…š’™⁄…š„™ŁŒ…š„™ŁTotal investments
‡…’š’’…‡‡‡€‹⁄š⁄™’‡Œ‡€‹⁄š⁄™’277In millions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Level 1(1)Level 2 (1)Level 3Gross inventoryNetting 
(2)Net balanceLoans (4)‡Œ‡’…™‡‡…š€Ł„‡Œ‡…š€Ł„Mortgage servicing rights
ŒŒŒNon-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
 on a recurring basis, gross
‡Œ‡‡€š⁄…€‡Cash collateral paid‡Netting of cash collateral received‡†Non-trading derivatives and other financial assets measured 
 on a recurring basis‡Œ‡‡€š⁄…€‡‡†‡Total assets
‡‡‡‡‡†‡Total as a percentage of gross assets
 (5)ŠŁ„˚⁄Š€˚„ŠLiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits‡Œ‡‡„Ł™‡‡Œ‡Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
 agreements to repurchaseŒ†Trading account liabilities
Securities sold, not yet purchased
Łš€ŁŁ’™…™’š„‹Ł™’š„‹ŁTrading account derivatives

‡‡‡‡€š™™⁄€…š‹Ł™
Œ⁄„š„⁄™…€š€…⁄Total trading derivatives
‡€š‹‹€‡‡‡Cash collateral received (6)‡„š‹€’Netting agreements‡†Netting of cash collateral paid†Total trading derivatives
‡€š‹‹€‡‡‡‡†‡Short-term borrowingsŒŒLong-term debtŒ™š„€™€‹š„™⁄Œ€‹š„™⁄Non-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
 on a recurring basis, gross
‡Œ‡€š€€Ł‡€⁄‡€š€…€Cash collateral received (7)‡™…ŁNon-trading derivatives and other financial liabilities measured 
 on a recurring basis‡Œ‡€š€€Ł‡€⁄‡‡Œ‡Total liabilities
‡‡‡‡‡†‡Total as a percentage of gross liabilities
 (5)⁄˚⁄ŠŠŠ˝˝
˝˝˝€š

˝
˝˝˝


˝
˝˝˝€š
˝˝
˝˝
˝˙˙
˝

˙
˝
˝
˝


˝
˝
278Changes in Level 3 Fair Value CategoryThe following tables present the changes in the Level 3 fair value category for 
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. As discussed above, the Company 

classifies financial instruments as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when 

there is reliance on at least one significant unobservable input to the valuation 

model. In addition to these unobservable inputs, the valuation models for 

Level 3 financial instruments typically also rely on a number of inputs that are 

readily observable either directly or indirectly. The gains and losses presented 

below include changes in the fair value related to both observable and 

unobservable inputs.The Company often hedges positions with offsetting positions that are classified in a different level. For example, the gains and losses for assets 
and liabilities in the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not 
reflect the effect of offsetting losses and gains on hedging instruments that 
have been classified by the Company in the Level 1 and Level 2 categories. In 
addition, the Company hedges items classified in the Level 3 category with 
instruments also classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The effects of 

these hedges are presented gross in the following tables.Level 3 Fair Value RollforwardIn millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2012Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlementsDec. 31, 
2013Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell˜˚˛˝˙ˆ$(137)$Š$627$(1,871)$59$Š$71$(226)$3,566$(124)Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed 
securities

˜$141$Š$1,386$(1,477)$1,316$68$(1,310)$(355)$1,094$52474Š513(372)3,630Š(3,189)(7)2,85410114Š278(304)244Š(1,178)(17)25614Total trading mortgage-
 backed securities˜$729$Š$2,177$(2,153)$5,190$68$(5,677)$(379)$4,204$76U.S. Treasury and federal
 agency securities
˜‘$(1)$Š$54$Š$Š$Š$(53)$Š$Š$ŠState and municipal37Š9Š107Š(126)Š22215Foreign government
(21)Š156(67)326Š(289)Š4165Corporate(20)Š410(410)2,864Š(2,116)(923)1,835(406)Equity securities129Š228(210)829Š(183)Š1,05759Asset-backed securities˙˛˙˚ˆ544Š181(193)5,165Š(5,579)(229)4,342123Other trading assets202Š960(1,592)3,879Š(2,253)(333)3,184(7)Total trading non-derivative assets
˜$1,599$Š$4,175$(4,625)$18,360$68$(16,276)$(1,864)$15,260$(135)Trading derivatives, net
 (4)
292Š692(226)228Š(155)(173)839779‘625Š29(35)26Š(10)60695146–96Š25295298Š(149)25(858)(453)–296ŠŠ4615Š(25)79(360)384
–(368)Š106(183)20ŠŠ493(274)(544)Total trading derivatives, net
 (4)˜–$941$Š$852$(103)$587$Š$(339)$484$42$312279In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2012Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlementsDec. 31, 
2013Unrealized gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther (1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities

˜$Š$(7)$2,058$(3,820)$593$Š$(38)$(57)$187$11Š3060(265)212Š(140)Š1027‘ŠŠ4(21)17ŠŠŠŠŠTotal investment mortgage-
backed securities˜$Š$23$2,122$(4,106)$822$Š$(178)$(57)$289$18U.S. Treasury and federal
 agency securities
˜$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$(4)$Š$8$ŠState and municipalŠ1012(122)1,236Š(217)(125)1,643(75)Foreign government
Š2178(256)506Š(391)(78)344(28)CorporateŠ(27)334(119)104Š(303)(89)285ŠEquity securitiesƒƒˆŠ5619(1)1Š(33)Š81547Asset-backed securitiesŠ1171,192(1,684)1,475Š(337)(1,023)1,960ŠOther debt securitiesŠŠŠ(205)50Š(53)Š50ŠNon-marketable equity securities˚˛ˆ’˙Š249ŠŠ653Š(342)(1,577)4,347241Total investments
˜$Š$430$3,857$(6,493)$4,847$Š$(1,858)$(2,949)$9,741$203Loans˜$Š$(24)$353$Š$179$652$(192)$(1,756)$4,143$(122)Mortgage servicing rights
Š555ŠŠŠ634(2)(411)2,718553Other financial assets measured on a recurring basisŠ631Š216474(2,046)(979)181(5)LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits˜$Š$(125)$32$(21)$Š$86$Š$(118)$890$(41)Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase91Š216(17)36Š40(123)90250Trading account liabilities

ˆ’˚42Š89(52)ŠŠ612(382)59073Short-term borrowings53Š2(10)Š316Š(338)29(5)Long-term debt(161)1532,461(2,531)Š1,466(1)(1,332)6,797(55)Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basisŠ(215)5(2)(5)104Š(331)10(9)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
˛
Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
Other revenue
—ˆ–
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)




—˙–‚
˘
280In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2011Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlementsDec. 31, 
2012Unrealized  gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther(1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3AssetsFederal funds sold and securities 
borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell˜˜ˆ˝’˜‘˜˚˙˝˜—˙˙˙–˜‘˜‘˜‘˜—’˝–˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜Trading non-derivative assets
Trading mortgage-backed 
securities
˜˜˜‘˜˜—ƒˆ˚–˜’˚ƒ˜ƒ“˜—ƒˆ˚–˜–˜˜–‘—˙““–‘––––‘—ˆ˝˚–‘—˚˙˚–‘Total trading mortgage-backed 
securities˜˜˜‘˜˜–˜ˆ˛ˆ’˚˜ƒ“˜–˜–˜˜–U.S. Treasury and federal agency 
securities˜ˆ˜‘˜‘˜‘˜‘˜˜‘˜–˜‘˜‘˜‘State and municipal‘–‘–‘–Foreign government
‘–“’˝‘—˙˝“–‘˚Corporate—“˝–‘˙’˙–‘–––Equity securities–‘—˙ƒ–‘––—˚–Asset-backed securities˚˝ˆ‘–‘––˙˛˙˚ˆ–Other trading assets–‘–‘––ˆƒ’Total trading non-derivative assets
˜˜’ˆ“˜‘˜˜–˜˜ƒ“˜–˜–˜˜Trading derivatives, net
 (4)
–‘–‘––––˙˙˝‘–‘–‘––‘—ˆ˙–˙˙ˆ‘—’˚ƒ–––—˚˝’–—“ˆ˙–‘—’’–˚‘––
–‘–‘–ˆˆ˚––Total trading derivatives, net
 (4)˜—ƒƒ“–˜–˜‘˜˜–˜˜‘˜–˜—˚˝˙–˜–˜–InvestmentsMortgage-backed securities
˜’ƒ“˜‘˜ƒ˜˜–˜˜‘˜‘˜–˜˜˙ˆ‘’—’–˙’‘—˚˙–‘‘‘‘‘‘–‘‘‘‘‘Total investment mortgage-
backed securities˜˜‘˜˜˜—ˆ˛ƒ˚“–˜ˆ˛’ƒ“˜‘˜—˚˙–˜–˜˜˙ˆU.S. Treasury and federal agency 
securities˜ƒ˚˜‘˜‘˜ƒ˚˜–˜˜‘˜‘˜‘˜˜‘State and municipal’’ƒ‘–‘–‘–Foreign government
˙˙ƒ‘–‘––Corporate‘—’––‘––Equity securities‘‘‘‘‘––ƒƒˆ—ˆ˙–Asset-backed securities‘–‘—ƒˆ˝–“ˆ˝‘—ƒƒ––Other debt securities‘—˚ˆ–‘‘‘––‘Non-marketable equity securities‘˙˚ˆ‘‘‘—ˆ˛ˆƒˆ––˚˛ˆ’˙Total investments
˜˜‘˜˙’˝˜˜–˜˜‘˜—˙˛’ƒ“–˜–˜˜281In millions of dollarsDec. 31, 
2011Net realized/unrealized gains (losses) incl. in
Transfers
PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlementsDec. 31, 
2012Unrealized  gains (losses) still held (3)Principal transactionsOther(1)(2)into Level 3out of Level 3Loans˜˜‘˜—ˆ˙–˜˜–˜˜“ˆ˝˜–˜–˜˜Mortgage servicing rights
‘–‘‘—˚–––Other financial assets measured on a recurring basis‘ˆ’’—ˆ˚–˙—˚˝––LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits˜˜‘˜–˜˜—ˆ’–˜‘˜˜‘˜–˜˜–Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase—’˙–‘‘–‘‘––˙ˆTrading account liabilities

–‘—˙ƒ–‘‘–ˆ’˚–Short-term borrowings˙““–‘˙ƒ–‘‘—ƒ“˝–—˚ƒ–Long-term debt’˛“˝˙–‘‘––Other financial liabilities measured on a recurring basisˆ‘––—˙–’‘––
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
˛

Realized gains (losses) from sales of investments
Other revenue
—ˆ–
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)




—˙–‚
˘
Level 3 Fair Value RollforwardThe following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period 
December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013:Transfers of Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell of $1.9 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 related 
to shortening of the remaining tenor of certain reverse repos. There is 
more transparency and observability for repo curves used in the valuation 
of structured reverse repos with tenors up to five years; thus, structured 
reverse repos maturing within five years are generally classified as Level 2.Transfers of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-
backed securities in Investments of $2.1 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, 
and of $3.8 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, due to changes in the level of 
price observability for the specific securities. Similarly, there were transfers 
of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-backed 
securities in Trading securities of $1.4 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and 
of $1.5 billion from Level 3 to Level 2.Transfers of asset-backed securities in Investments of $1.2 billion from 
Level 2 to Level 3, and of $1.7 billion from Level 3 to Level 2. These 
transfers were related to collateralized loan obligations, reflecting changes 
in the level of price observability.Transfers of other debt trading assets from Level 3 to Level 2 of $1.6 billion 
were primarily related to trading loans for which there was an increased 
volume of market quotations as well as positions that were reclassified as Level 3 positions within Loans to conform to the balance sheet 
presentation. The reclassification has also been reflected as transfers into 
Level 3 within Loans in the rollforward table above.Transfers of Long-term debt of $2.5 billion from Level 2 to Level 3, and 
of $2.5 billion from Level 3 to Level 2, related mainly to structured debt 
reflecting changes in the significance of unobservable inputs as well as 
certain underlying market inputs becoming less or more observable.The following were the significant Level 3 transfers for the period December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012:Transfers of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities in Trading account assets of $1.3 billion from Level 2 
to Level 3 primarily due to a decrease in observability of prices.Transfers of other trading assets from Level 2 to Level 3 of $1.1 billion, 
the majority of which consisted of trading loans for which there were a 
reduced number of market quotations.Transfers of other trading assets from Level 3 to Level 2 of $2.1 billion 
included $1.0 billion transfered primarily as a result of an increased 
volume of market quotations, with a majority of the remaining amount 
related to positions that were reclassified as Level 3 positions within Loans to conform with the balance sheet presentation. The reclassification 
has also been reflected as transfers into Level 3 within Loans in the rollforward table above.282Transfers of $3.7 billion of U.S. government-sponsored agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities in Investments from Level 3 to Level 2 
consisting mainly of securities that were newly issued during the year. At 
issuance, these securities had limited trading activity and were previously 
classified as Level 3. As trading activity in these securities increased and 
pricing became observable, these positions were transferred to Level 2.Transfers of Long-term debt in the amounts of $2.5 billion from Level 
2 to Level 3 and $2.7 billion from Level 3 to Level 2 were the result of 
Citi™s conforming and refining the application of the fair value level 
classification methodologies to certain structured debt instruments 
containing embedded derivatives, as well as certain underlying market 
inputs becoming less or more observable.In addition, 2012 included sales of non-marketable equity securities classified as Investments of $2.8 billion relating to the sale of EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing.283Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Fair Value MeasurementsThe Company™s Level 3 inventory consists of both cash securities and 
derivatives of varying complexities. The valuation methodologies applied 
to measure the fair value of these positions include discounted cash 
flow analyses, internal models and comparative analysis. A position is 
classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when at least one input 
is unobservable and is considered significant to its valuation. The specific 
reason an input is deemed unobservable varies. For example, at least one 
significant input to the pricing model is not observable in the market, at least one significant input has been adjusted to make it more representative of the 
position being valued, or the price quote available does not reflect sufficient 
trading activities.The following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 inventory and the most significant unobservable inputs 
used in Level 3 fair value measurements as of December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012. Differences between this table and amounts presented 
in the Level 3 Fair Value Rollforward table represent individually immaterial 

items that have been measured using a variety of valuation techniques other 
than those listed.Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Fair Value MeasurementsAs of December 31, 2013
Fair Value
 (in millions) (1) Methodology
InputLow (2)(3)High (2)(3)Weighted
 Average
 (4)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities
 borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell$3,299
™™™Mortgage-backed securities$2,869˜˜˜ƒƒ˘’˝1,241ﬂ
ﬂ
˝˘˝ˆ™™™State and municipal, foreign
 government, corporate and
 other debt securities$5,361˜‘˜˜2,014
ˆƒ˚Equity securities (5)$947˜˜“ˆ˘’’˜827
ﬂ
˙˘˝˝™˚˘˝˝™˙˘˚˝™ŁŒ„
Asset-backed securities$4,539˜‘˜˜1,300Non-marketable equity$2,324Ÿ
˜˜ˆˆ’˛˚˚“˛ˆ˙˝˜1,470
533
‘™ƒ˚˘˝˝™ˆ˘˙ƒ™
˝˘“˝
DerivativesŠGross
 (6)
$5,721

™™™
$1,727
™™™189

™™™
˙˝˘˝˝™’˝˘˝˝™˚˝˘˝˝™
˙˝˘˝˝™™™
$3,189
™™™563
™™™
–™““˘˙˝™™
—ƒ˝˘˝˝–™˚˚˘˝˝™˝˘’˝™˜‘˜˜284As of December 31, 2013
Fair Value
 (in millions) (1) Methodology
InputLow (2)(3)High (2)(3)Weighted
 Average
 (4)
$1,955
˙˘˝˝™™™
—ƒ˚˘˝˝–™“˝˘˝˝™™™™™
$4,767
™’˙˘˝˝™™1,520
˚˘˝˝™“˚˘˝˝™˙ƒ˘˙ˆ™˜˜˜ˆ˚ƒ˘’“


$8260

’˘“˝’˘“˝’˘“˝38
˜˝˘˝˝˜˜Ÿ
˜˜˜‘™ˆ˚˘˝˝™™Loans$2,153˜‘˜˜1,422ﬂ
™˙˘˚˝™™549ﬂ
˙“Mortgage servicing rights
$2,625
ﬂ
ˆ˘’˙™™™ŁŒ„
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits$890
™™™™™™
“˘˝˝™™™™™™
—ƒ˚˘˝˝–™“˝˘˝˝™™
˙˘˝˝™™™Federal funds purchased and
 securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase$902
˝˘˙ƒ™ˆ˘’’™™Trading account liabilities

$289$273
–™˚˘˝˝™—˚˝˘˝˝–™˜‘˜˜““˘ƒ˚Short-term borrowings and long-term debt$5,957
™™™868
™™™
™™™
—ƒ˝˘˝˝–™˚˚˘˝˝™˝˘’˝™
–™““˘˙˝™™
˙˘˝˝™™˚˘˝˝™˜˝˘’ˆ˜˜
—ˆ–˘
—˙–
—˚–
—’–
—ƒ–285As of December 31, 2012
Fair Value
 (in millions) (1)Methodology
InputLow (2)(3)High (2)(3)AssetsFederal funds sold and securities
 borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell˜

™™Trading and investment securities
Mortgage-backed securities˜˜‘˜ﬂ
ﬂ
‘™™
State and municipal, foreign government, 
corporate and other debt securities˜˜˝˘˝˝˜
ﬂ
˝˘˝˝™ˆ˝˘˝˝™ﬂ
ˆ˚ˆ˝˝Equity securities˜
ﬂ
“˘˝˝™™
˜˝˘˝˝˜ƒ˚˝˘˝˝Asset-backed securities˜˜‘˜ﬂ
‘™™

™“˝˘˝˝™ŁŒ„–
Non-marketable equity˜Ÿ
˜˜
˙˘ƒ˝
˝˘ƒƒƒ˝“
‘™ƒ˚˘˝˝™DerivativesŠGross
 (4)
˜
–™“˝˘˝˝™˝
˝˘˝“™™
‘™™
˜
™’ƒ˘ˆ˚™
˙˝˘˝˝™’˝˘˝˝™˝ˆƒ’
˜˙˛’’“
™™
ƒ˙˘“˙™™
™““˘“˝™
˜ˆƒ˘˙˚™™
—ƒƒ˘˝˝–™“˚˘˝˝™
˚˘˝˝™™
˜˙˛ƒƒƒ˜˝˘˝˝˜
’˘˚˝™™
˚˘˝˝™““˘˝˝™˝286As of December 31, 2012
Fair Value
 (in millions) (1)Methodology
InputLow (2)(3)High (2)(3)


˜˜˜
ˆ˝˘ƒ“™““˘˚˝™Loans˜˜˝˘˝˝˜ﬂ
˚˚Mortgage servicing rights
˜
ﬂ
‘™™
LiabilitiesInterest-bearing deposits˜
™™™™
—ƒ’˘˝˝–™“˚˘˝˝™
˚˘˝˝™™Federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
or sold under agreements to repurchase˜
˝˘ˆˆ™™Trading account liabilities

˜˜˝˘˝˝˜ƒ˚Short-term borrowings and long-term debt˜˚˛˝’ƒ˜˝˘˝˝˜
™™’˙“ﬂ

ƒ˚˘˙˝™™
™““˘“˝™
–™˚˝˘˙˝™
—ˆ–˘
—˙–
—˚–287Sensitivity to Unobservable Inputs and Interrelationships between Unobservable InputsThe impact of key unobservable inputs on the Level 3 fair value 
measurements may not be independent of one another. In addition, the 
amount and direction of the impact on a fair value measurement for a given 
change in an unobservable input depends on the nature of the instrument as 
well as whether the Company holds the instrument as an asset or a liability. 
For certain instruments, the pricing hedging and risk management are 
sensitive to the correlation between various inputs rather than on the analysis 
and aggregation of the individual inputs.The following section describes the sensitivities and interrelationships of the most significant unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair 
value measurements.CorrelationCorrelation is a measure of the co-movement between two or more variables. 
A variety of correlation-related assumptions are required for a wide range of 
instruments, including equity and credit baskets, foreign-exchange options, 
CDOs backed by loans or bonds, mortgages, subprime mortgages and many 
other instruments. For almost all of these instruments, correlations are not 
observable in the market and must be estimated using historical information. 
Estimating correlation can be especially difficult where it may vary over time. 
Extracting correlation information from market data requires significant 
assumptions regarding the informational efficiency of the market (for 
example, swaption markets). Changes in correlation levels can have a major 
impact, favorable or unfavorable, on the value of an instrument, depending 
on its nature. A change in the default correlation of the fair value of the 
underlying bonds comprising a CDO structure would affect the fair value of 
the senior tranche. For example, an increase in the default correlation of the 
underlying bonds would reduce the fair value of the senior tranche, because 
highly correlated instruments produce larger losses in the event of default 
and a part of these losses would become attributable to the senior tranche. 
That same change in default correlation would have a different impact on 
junior tranches of the same structure.VolatilityVolatility represents the speed and severity of market price changes and is 
a key factor in pricing options. Typically, instruments can become more 
expensive if volatility increases. For example, as an index becomes more 
volatile, the cost to Citi of maintaining a given level of exposure increases 
because more frequent rebalancing of the portfolio is required. Volatility 
generally depends on the tenor of the underlying instrument and the strike 
price or level defined in the contract. Volatilities for certain combinations 
of tenor and strike are not observable. The general relationship between 
changes in the value of a portfolio to changes in volatility also depends on 
changes in interest rates and the level of the underlying index. Generally, 
long option positions (assets) benefit from increases in volatility, whereas 
short option positions (liabilities) will suffer losses. Some instruments are 
more sensitive to changes in volatility than others. For example, an at-the-
money option would experience a larger percentage change in its fair value than a deep-in-the-money option. In addition, the fair value of an option 
with more than one underlying security (for example, an option on a basket 
of bonds) depends on the volatility of the individual underlying securities as 
well as their correlations.YieldAdjusted yield is generally used to discount the projected future principal and 
interest cash flows on instruments, such as asset-backed securities. Adjusted 
yield is impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and relevant 
credit spreads.In some circumstances, the yield of an instrument is not observable in the market and must be estimated from historical data or from yields of 
similar securities. This estimated yield may need to be adjusted to capture the 
characteristics of the security being valued. In other situations, the estimated 
yield may not represent sufficient market liquidity and must be adjusted as 
well. Whenever the amount of the adjustment is significant to the value of 
the security, the fair value measurement is classified as Level
 3.PrepaymentVoluntary unscheduled payments (prepayments) change the future cash 
flows for the investor and thereby change the fair value of the security. The 
effect of prepayments is more pronounced for residential mortgage-backed 
securities. An increase in prepaymentsŠin speed or magnitudeŠgenerally 
creates losses for the holder of these securities. Prepayment is generally 
negatively correlated with delinquency and interest rate. A combination 
of low prepayment and high delinquencies amplify each input™s negative 
impact on mortgage securities™ valuation. As prepayment speeds change, the 
weighted average life of the security changes, which impacts the valuation 
either positively or negatively, depending upon the nature of the security and 
the direction of the change in the weighted average life.RecoveryRecovery is the proportion of the total outstanding balance of a bond or loan 
that is expected to be collected in a liquidation scenario. For many credit 
securities (such as asset-backed securities), there is no directly observable 
market input for recovery, but indications of recovery levels are available 
from pricing services. The assumed recovery of a security may differ from 
its actual recovery that will be observable in the future. The recovery rate 
impacts the valuation of credit securities. Generally, an increase in the 
recovery rate assumption increases the fair value of the security. An increase 
in loss severity, the inverse of the recovery rate, reduces the amount of 
principal available for distribution and, as a result, decreases the fair value of 
the security.288Credit SpreadCredit spread is a component of the security representing its credit quality. 
Credit spread reflects the market perception of changes in prepayment, 
delinquency and recovery rates, therefore capturing the impact of other 
variables on the fair value. Changes in credit spread affect the fair value of 
securities differently depending on the characteristics and maturity profile of 
the security. For example, credit spread is a more significant driver of the fair 
value measurement of a high yield bond as compared to an investment grade 
bond. Generally, the credit spread for an investment grade bond is also more 
observable and less volatile than its high yield counterpart.Qualitative Discussion of the Ranges of Significant 
Unobservable InputsThe following section describes the ranges of the most significant 
unobservable inputs used by the Company in Level 3 fair value 
measurements. The level of aggregation and the diversity of instruments held 
by the Company lead to a wide range of unobservable inputs that may not be 
evenly distributed across the Level 3 inventory.CorrelationThere are many different types of correlation inputs, including credit 
correlation, cross-asset correlation (such as equity-interest rate correlation), and same-asset correlation (such as interest rate-interest rate correlation). Correlation inputs are generally used to value hybrid and exotic instruments. 
Generally, same-asset correlation inputs have a narrower range than cross-
asset correlation inputs. However, due to the complex and unique nature 
of these instruments, the ranges for correlation inputs can vary widely 
across portfolios.VolatilitySimilar to correlation, asset-specific volatility inputs vary widely by asset type. 
For example, ranges for foreign exchange volatility are generally lower and 
narrower than equity volatility. Equity volatilities are wider due to the nature 
of the equities market and the terms of certain exotic instruments. For most 
instruments, the interest rate volatility input is on the lower end of the range; 
however, for certain structured or exotic instruments (such as market-linked 
deposits or exotic interest rate derivatives), the range is much wider.YieldRanges for the yield inputs vary significantly depending upon the type of 
security. For example, securities that typically have lower yields, such as 
municipal bonds, will fall on the lower end of the range, while more illiquid 
securities or securities with lower credit quality, such as certain residual 
tranche asset-backed securities, will have much higher yield inputs.Credit Spread
Credit spread is relevant primarily for fixed income and credit instruments; 
however, the ranges for the credit spread input can vary across instruments. 
For example, certain fixed income instruments, such as certificates of deposit, 
typically have lower credit spreads, whereas certain derivative instruments 
with high-risk counterparties are typically subject to higher credit spreads 
when they are uncollateralized or have a longer tenor. Other instruments, 
such as credit default swaps, also have credit spreads that vary with the 
attributes of the underlying obligor. Stronger companies have tighter credit 
spreads, and weaker companies have wider credit spreads.PriceThe price input is a significant unobservable input for certain fixed income 
instruments. For these instruments, the price input is expressed as a 
percentage of the notional amount, with a price of $100 meaning that the 
instrument is valued at par. For most of these instruments, the price varies 
between zero to $100, or slightly above $100. Relatively illiquid assets that 
have experienced significant losses since issuance, such as certain asset-
backed securities, are at the lower end of the range, whereas most investment 
grade corporate bonds will fall in the middle to the higher end of the range. 
For certain structured debt instruments with embedded derivatives, the price 
input may be above $100 to reflect the embedded features of the instrument 
(for example, a step-up coupon or a conversion option).The price input is also a significant unobservable input for certain equity securities; however, the range of price inputs varies depending on the nature 

of the position, the number of shares outstanding and other factors.289Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring BasisCertain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and therefore are not included in the tables above. These include assets 
measured at cost that have been written down to fair value during the periods 
as a result of an impairment. In addition, these assets include loans held-
for-sale and other real estate owned that are measured at the lower of cost 
or market.The following table presents the carrying amounts of all assets that were still held as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, and for which a 
nonrecurring fair value measurement was recorded during the six and twelve 
months then ended, respectively:In millions of dollarsFair value
Level 2Level 3December 31, 2013

$3,483$2,165$1,318
138151234,7133,947766Total assets at fair value on a 
 nonrecurring basis$8,334$6,127$2,207

In millions of dollarsFair value
Level 2Level 3December 31, 2012

˜˜˜
‘Total assets at fair value on a 
 nonrecurring basis˜˜˜







The fair value of loans-held-for-sale is determined where possible using 
quoted secondary-market prices. If no such quoted price exists, the fair value 
of a loan is determined using quoted prices for a similar asset or assets, 
adjusted for the specific attributes of that loan. Fair value for the other real 
estate owned is based on appraisals. For loans whose carrying amount is 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, the fair values depend 
on the type of collateral. Fair value of the collateral is typically estimated 
based on quoted market prices if available, appraisals or other internal 
valuation techniques.Where the fair value of the related collateral is based on an unadjusted appraised value, the loan is generally classified as Level 2. Where significant 
adjustments are made to the appraised value, the loan is classified as Level 3. 
Additionally, for corporate loans, appraisals of the collateral are often based 

on sales of similar assets; however, because the prices of similar assets require 

significant adjustments to reflect the unique features of the underlying 
collateral, these fair value measurements are generally classified as Level 3.Valuation Techniques and Inputs for Level 3 Nonrecurring Fair Value MeasurementsThe following tables present the valuation techniques covering the majority of Level 3 nonrecurring fair value measurements and the most significant 
unobservable inputs used in those measurements as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:Fair
 Value
(1)Weighted
 averageAs of December 31, 2013
(in millions)Methodology
InputLowHigh(2)Loans held-for-sale
$912˜’˝˘˝˝˜˜393
˙˚

’˙
Other real estate owned$98™˚“˘˝˝™™17
˜’˝˘˙’˜˜“’˘’ƒ˜˜˜Loans (3)$581™ˆ˙˘˝˝™™109˜˜˜˜’˛˚˝˝˛˝˝˝˜˜
Ł
—ˆ–
290Fair
 Value
(1)As of December 31, 2012
 (in millions)Methodology
InputLowHighLoans held-for-sale
$747˜˜485˙˝˙˝174
Other real estate owned$165™˚˝˘˝˝™˜ˆ“˛ƒƒ˙˜Loans (3)$351™ˆ˙˘˝˝™111˜˜
’˘˝˝™™

—ˆ–
Nonrecurring Fair Value ChangesThe following table presents total nonrecurring fair value measurements for the period, included in earnings, attributable to the change in fair 
value relating to assets that are still held at December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012:In millions of dollarsYear ended 
December 31, 2013

$Š
(6)(761)Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
$(767)


In millions of dollarsﬂ


˜–
––—ˆ˛ˆ˙˝–Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
˜–







291Estimated Fair Value of Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair ValueThe table below presents the carrying value and fair value of Citigroup™s 
financial instruments which are not carried at fair value. The table below 
therefore excludes items measured at fair value on a recurring basis 
presented in the tables above.The disclosure also excludes leases, affiliate investments, pension and benefit obligations and insurance policy claim reserves. In addition, 
contract-holder fund amounts exclude certain insurance contracts. Also, as 
required, the disclosure excludes the effect of taxes, any premium or discount 
that could result from offering for sale at one time the entire holdings of a 
particular instrument, excess fair value associated with deposits with no fixed 
maturity, and other expenses that would be incurred in a market transaction. 

In addition, the table excludes the values of non-financial assets and 
liabilities, as well as a wide range of franchise, relationship and intangible 
values, which are integral to a full assessment of Citigroup™s financial 

position and the value of its net assets.The fair value represents management™s best estimates based on a 
range of methodologies and assumptions. The carrying value of short-term 
financial instruments not accounted for at fair value, as well as receivables 
and payables arising in the ordinary course of business, approximates fair 
value because of the relatively short period of time between their origination 
and expected realization. Quoted market prices are used when available 
for investments and for liabilities, such as long-term debt not carried 
at fair value. For loans not accounted for at fair value, cash flows are 
discounted at quoted secondary market rates or estimated market rates if 
available. Otherwise, sales of comparable loan portfolios or current market 
origination rates for loans with similar terms and risk characteristics are 
used. Expected credit losses are either embedded in the estimated future 
cash flows or incorporated as an adjustment to the discount rate used. The 
value of collateral is also considered. For liabilities such as long-term debt 
not accounted for at fair value and without quoted market prices, market 
borrowing rates of interest are used to discount contractual cash flows.December 31, 2013
Estimated fair value
In billions of dollarsCarrying value
Estimated fair value
Level 1Level 2Level 3Assets$17.8$18.2$5.3$11.9$1.0
115.6115.6Š105.510.1637.9635.1Š5.6629.5254.2254.29.4191.753.1Liabilities$966.6$965.6$Š$776.4$189.2
152.0152.0Š147.14.9194.2201.3Š175.625.7
136.2136.2Š41.295.0

In billions of dollars

ˆAssets˜˜˜ˆ˘˝˜˜
‘˚˘“‘Liabilities˜˜˜‘˜˜
“˙˘˚“˙˘˚‘“˙˘˙‘
‘
Allowance for loan losses




˘

—ˆ–
Other assets


—˙–
—˚–
Other liabilities



Fair values vary from period to period based on changes in a wide range of factors, including interest rates, credit quality and market perceptions 
of value, and as existing assets and liabilities run off and new transactions 
are entered into. The estimated fair values of loans reflect changes in credit 
status since the loans were made, changes in interest rates in the case of 
fixed-rate loans, and premium values at origination of certain loans.The estimated fair values of the Company™s corporate unfunded lending 
commitments at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 were liabilities 
of $5.2 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, which are substantially classified 

as Level 3. The Company does not estimate the fair values of consumer 
unfunded lending commitments, which are generally cancelable by 
providing notice to the borrower.
29226. FAIR VALUE ELECTIONSThe Company may elect to report most financial instruments and certain 
other items at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis with changes 

in fair value reported in earnings. The election is made upon the acquisition 

of an eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment or when 

certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair value election may not 

be revoked once an election is made. The changes in fair value are recorded 

in current earnings. Additional discussion regarding the applicable areas in 

which fair value elections were made is presented in Note 25 to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.All servicing rights are recognized initially at fair value. The Company has elected fair value accounting for its mortgage servicing rights. See Note 22 to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions regarding the 
accounting and reporting of MSRs.The following table presents, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the changes in fair value gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 
2013 and 2012 associated with those items for which the fair value option 
was elected:Changes in fair value gains 
 (losses) for the years  ended December 31,In millions of dollars2013Assets

$(628)˜—˙˝“–‚
(190)(39)—˚˝–
72ƒƒ(155)–‚
$(83)˜–$553˜–
951(9)ˆ‚
$1,495˜Total assets
$555˜Liabilities$166˜–

110’’‚
30–76113–Total liabilities
$495˜–
Consolidation




Own Debt Valuation AdjustmentsOwn debt valuation adjustments are recognized on Citi™s liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected using Citi™s credit spreads 
observed in the bond market. The fair value of liabilities for which the fair 
value option is elected (other than non-recourse and similar liabilities) is 
impacted by the narrowing or widening of the Company™s credit spreads. The 
estimated change in the fair value of these liabilities due to such changes 
in the Company™s own credit risk (or instrument-specific credit risk) was a 
loss of $410 million and $2,009 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Changes in fair value resulting from changes 
in instrument-specific credit risk were estimated by incorporating the 
Company™s current credit spreads observable in the bond market into the 
relevant valuation technique used to value each liability as described above.293The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial LiabilitiesSelected portfolios of securities purchased under 
agreements to resell, securities borrowed, securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase, securities loaned and 
certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings
The Company elected the fair value option for certain portfolios of fixed-
income securities purchased under agreements to resell and fixed-income 
securities sold under agreements to repurchase, securities borrowed, securities 
loaned, and certain non-collateralized short-term borrowings on broker-
dealer entities in the United States, United Kingdom and Japan. In each case, 
the election was made because the related interest-rate risk is managed on a 
portfolio basis, primarily with derivative instruments that are accounted for 
at fair value through earnings. The balance of related assets and liabilities 
subject to fair value election declined between December 31, 2012 and 
December 31, 2013, primarily due to the prospective exclusion of overnight 
transactions from the fair value election beginning in the fourth quarter.Changes in fair value for transactions in these portfolios are recorded in Principal transactions. The related interest revenue and interest expense are 
measured based on the contractual rates specified in the transactions and 
are reported as interest revenue and expense in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.Certain loans and other credit productsCitigroup has elected the fair value option for certain originated and 
purchased loans, including certain unfunded loan products, such as 
guarantees and letters of credit, executed by Citigroup™s lending and trading 
businesses. None of these credit products are highly leveraged financing 
commitments. Significant groups of transactions include loans and 
unfunded loan products that are expected to be either sold or securitized in 
the near term, or transactions where the economic risks are hedged with 
derivative instruments such as purchased credit default swaps or total return 
swaps where the Company pays the total return on the underlying loans to a 
third party. Citigroup has elected the fair value option to mitigate accounting 
mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is complex and to achieve 
operational simplifications. Fair value was not elected for most lending 
transactions across the Company.The following table provides information about certain credit products carried at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012:December 31, 2013

In millions of dollarsTrading assets
Loans‚

$9,262$4,058˜˜
4(94)––
97Š‘

41Š‘In addition to the amounts reported above, $2,308 million and $1,891 million of unfunded loan commitments related to certain credit products 
selected for fair value accounting were outstanding as of December 31, 2013 
and 2012, respectively.
Changes in fair value of funded and unfunded credit products are classified in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue on Trading 

account assets or loan interest depending on the balance sheet classifications 
of the credit products. The changes in fair value for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012 due to instrument-specific credit risk totaled to 
a gain of $4 million and $68 million, respectively.
Certain investments in unallocated precious metalsCitigroup invests in unallocated precious metals accounts (gold, silver, 
platinum and palladium) as part of its commodity and foreign currency 
trading activities or to economically hedge certain exposures from issuing 
structured liabilities. Under ASC 815, the investment is bifurcated into a debt 
host contract and a commodity forward derivative instrument. Citigroup 
elects the fair value option for the debt host contract, and reports the debt 
host contract within Trading account assets on the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The total carrying amount of debt host contracts across 
unallocated precious metals accounts was approximately $1.3 billion 
at December 31, 2013 and approximately $5.5 billion at December 31, 
2012. The amounts are expected to fluctuate based on trading activity in 
future periods.As part of its commodity and foreign currency trading activities, Citi sells (buys) unallocated precious metals investments and executes forward 
purchase (sale) derivative contracts with trading counterparties. When 
Citi sells an unallocated precious metals investment, Citi™s receivable from 

its depository bank is repaid and Citi derecognizes its investment in the 
unallocated precious metal. The forward purchase (sale) contract with the 
trading counterparty indexed to unallocated precious metals is accounted 
for as a derivative, at fair value through earnings. As of December 31, 
2013, there were approximately $13.7 billion and $5.9 billion notional 
amounts of such forward purchase and forward sale derivative contracts 
outstanding, respectively.
Certain investments in private equity and real estate ventures and certain equity method and other investments
Citigroup invests in private equity and real estate ventures for the purpose 
of earning investment returns and for capital appreciation. The Company 294has elected the fair value option for certain of these ventures, because such investments are considered similar to many private equity or hedge fund 
activities in Citi™s investment companies, which are reported at fair value. 
The fair value option brings consistency in the accounting and evaluation of 
these investments. All investments (debt and equity) in such private equity 
and real estate entities are accounted for at fair value. These investments are 
classified as Investments on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.Citigroup also holds various non-strategic investments in leveraged buyout funds and other hedge funds for which the Company elected fair 
value accounting to reduce operational and accounting complexity. Since 

the funds account for all of their underlying assets at fair value, the impact 
of applying the equity method to Citigroup™s investment in these funds was 

equivalent to fair value accounting. These investments are classified as Other assets on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Changes in the fair values of these investments are classified in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income.
Citigroup also elects the fair value option for certain non-marketable equity securities whose risk is managed with derivative instruments that are 
accounted for at fair value through earnings. These securities are classified as 
Trading Assets on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in the fair 

value of these securities and the related derivative instruments are recorded 
in Principal transactions.Certain mortgage loans (HFS)Citigroup has elected the fair value option for certain purchased and 
originated prime fixed-rate and conforming adjustable-rate first mortgage 
loans HFS. These loans are intended for sale or securitization and are hedged 
with derivative instruments. The Company has elected the fair value option 
to mitigate accounting mismatches in cases where hedge accounting is 
complex and to achieve operational simplifications.The following table provides information about certain mortgage loans HFS carried at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013


$2,089
48ˆ“˝
Š‘

Š‘The changes in fair values of these mortgage loans are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. There was no 

net change in fair value during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 
due to instrument-specific credit risk. Related interest income continues to 
be measured based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income.Certain consolidated VIEsThe Company has elected the fair value option for all qualified assets 
and liabilities of certain VIEs that were consolidated upon the adoption 
of SFAS 167 on January 1, 2010, including certain private label mortgage 
securitizations, mutual fund deferred sales commissions and collateralized 
loan obligation VIEs. The Company elected the fair value option for these 
VIEs, as the Company believes this method better reflects the economic risks, 
since substantially all of the Company™s retained interests in these entities are 
carried at fair value.With respect to the consolidated mortgage VIEs, the Company determined the fair value for the mortgage loans and long-term debt utilizing internal 
valuation techniques. The fair value of the long-term debt measured using 
internal valuation techniques is verified, where possible, to prices obtained 
from independent vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and 

may apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. Security pricing associated with long-term debt that is valued using 
observable inputs is classified as Level 2, and debt that is valued using one or 
more significant unobservable inputs is classified as Level 3. The fair value 
of mortgage loans in each VIE is derived from the security pricing. When 
substantially all of the long-term debt of a VIE is valued using Level 2 inputs, 
the corresponding mortgage loans are classified as Level 2. Otherwise, the 
mortgage loans of a VIE are classified as Level 3.With respect to the consolidated mortgage VIEs for which the fair value option was elected, the mortgage loans are classified as Loans on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The changes in fair value of 

the loans are reported as Other revenue in the Company™s Consolidated 

Statement of Income. Related interest revenue is measured based on the 
contractual interest rates and reported as Interest revenue in the Company™s 

Consolidated Statement of Income. Information about these mortgage loans 
is included in the table below. The change in fair value of these loans due to 

instrument-specific credit risk was a loss of $156 and $107 million for the 
years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
The debt issued by these consolidated VIEs is classified as long-term debt on Citigroup™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The changes in fair value for the 

majority of these liabilities are reported in Other revenue in the Company™s 
Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest expense is measured 295based on the contractual interest rates and reported as Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The aggregate unpaid principal balance of long-term debt of these consolidated VIEs exceeded the aggregate fair value by $223 million and $869 million as of December 31, 2013 and 
2012, respectively.
The following table provides information about Corporate and Consumer loans of consolidated VIEs carried at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012:December 31, 2013

In millions of dollarsCorporate loansConsumer loans

$14$910˜˜
7212ˆ˙ƒ
Š81ˆ˙

Š106ˆ’Certain structured liabilities
The Company has elected the fair value option for certain structured 
liabilities whose performance is linked to structured interest rates, inflation, 
currency, equity, referenced credit or commodity risks (structured liabilities). 
The Company elected the fair value option, because these exposures are considered to be trading-related positions and, therefore, are managed on a 
fair value basis. These positions will continue to be classified as debt, deposits 
or derivatives (Trading account liabilities) on the Company™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheet according to their legal form.The following table provides information about the carrying value of structured notes, disaggregated by type of embedded derivative instrument at December 31, 
2013 and 2012:In billions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013


$9.8˜“˘“0.5˝˘“7.0ƒ˘ˆ1.83.5˙˘ƒTotal
$22.6˜The change in fair value for these structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. 

Changes in fair value for these structured liabilities include an economic 
component for accrued interest, which is included in the change in fair value 
reported in Principal transactions.Certain non-structured liabilitiesThe Company has elected the fair value option for certain non-structured 
liabilities with fixed and floating interest rates (non-structured liabilities). 
The Company has elected the fair value option where the interest-rate risk of such liabilities is economically hedged with derivative contracts or the 
proceeds are used to purchase financial assets that will also be accounted 
for at fair value through earnings. The election has been made to mitigate 
accounting mismatches and to achieve operational simplifications. These 
positions are reported in Short-term borrowings and Long-term debt on 
the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in fair value for 
these non-structured liabilities is reported in Principal transactions in the Company™s Consolidated Statement of Income. Related interest expense on 
non-structured liabilities is measured based on the contractual interest rates 
and reported as Interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income.The following table provides information about long-term debt carried at fair value, excluding debt issued by consolidated VIEs, at December 31, 2013 and 2012:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013


$25,968˜
(866)–The following table provides information about short-term borrowings carried at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012:In millions of dollarsDecember 31, 2013


$3,692˜
(38)–29627. PLEDGED ASSETS, COLLATERAL, GUARANTEES AND COMMITMENTSPledged AssetsIn connection with the Company™s financing and trading activities, the Company has pledged assets to collateralize its obligations under repurchase 
agreements, secured financing agreements, secured liabilities of consolidated 
VIEs and other borrowings. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the approximate 
carrying values of the significant components of pledged assets recognized on 
the Company™s Consolidated Balance Sheet included:In millions of dollars2013˜˚˛˜$183,071228,513
118,832Total
$530,416In addition, included in Cash and due from banks at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $8.8 billion and $13.4 billion, respectively, of cash 

segregated under federal and other brokerage regulations or deposited with 
clearing organizations.CollateralAt December 31, 2013 and 2012, the approximate fair value of collateral 
received by the Company that may be resold or repledged, excluding 
the impact of allowable netting, was $308.3 billion and $307.1 billion, 
respectively. This collateral was received in connection with resale 
agreements, securities borrowings and loans, derivative transactions and 
margined broker loans.At December 31, 2013 and 2012, a substantial portion of the collateral received by the Company had been sold or repledged in connection with 
repurchase agreements, securities sold, not yet purchased, securities 
borrowings and loans, pledges to clearing organizations, segregation 
requirements under securities laws and regulations, derivative transactions 
and bank loans.In addition, at December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had pledged $397 billion and $418 billion, respectively, of collateral that may not be sold 

or repledged by the secured parties.Lease CommitmentsRental expense (principally for offices and computer equipment) was 
$1.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable leases, net of sublease income, are as follows:In millions of dollarsTotal
GuaranteesCiti provides a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to its customers 
to enhance their credit standing and enable them to complete a wide variety 
of business transactions. For certain contracts meeting the definition of a 
guarantee, the guarantor must recognize, at inception, a liability for the fair 
value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.In addition, the guarantor must disclose the maximum potential amount of future payments that the guarantor could be required to make under 
the guarantee, if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The 
determination of the maximum potential future payments is based on 
the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration of possible 
recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or pledged. As 
such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the anticipated 
losses, if any, on these guarantees.
The following tables present information about Citi™s guarantees at 
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 (for a discussion of the decrease 
in the carrying value period-over-period, see ﬁCarrying ValueŠGuarantees 

and Indemnificationsﬂ below):Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2013 except carrying value in millions
Expire within 1 yearExpire after 1 yearTotal amount
 outstandingCarrying value
 (in millions of dollars)
$28.8$71.4$100.2$428.8
7.64.912.541.8
6.061.667.6797.0Š0.30.322.3
79.2Š79.2Š85.9Š85.9Š
Š36.336.3ŠTotal
$207.5$174.5$382.0$1,289.9297Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December
 31, 2012 except carrying value in millions
Expire within 1 yearExpire after 1 yearTotal amount
 outstandingCarrying value
 (in millions of dollars)
˛˚˜ƒ˛
˛˜ƒ˚
˛˛ƒ˜⁄
⁄⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄Total
‡˛…
Financial standby letters of credit
Citi issues standby letters of credit which substitute its own credit for that of 
the borrower. If a letter of credit is drawn down, the borrower is obligated 
to repay Citi. Standby letters of credit protect a third party from defaults 
on contractual obligations. Financial standby letters of credit include: 
(i) guarantees of payment of insurance premiums and reinsurance risks 
that support industrial revenue bond underwriting; (ii) settlement of 
payment obligations to clearing houses, including futures and over-the-
counter derivatives clearing (see further discussion below); (iii) support 
options and purchases of securities in lieu of escrow deposit accounts; and 
(iv) letters of credit that backstop loans, credit facilities, promissory notes and 
trade acceptances.Performance guaranteesPerformance guarantees and letters of credit are issued to guarantee a 
customer™s tender bid on a construction or systems-installation project or to 
guarantee completion of such projects in accordance with contract terms. 
They are also issued to support a customer™s obligation to supply specified 
products, commodities, or maintenance or warranty services to a third party.Futures and over-the-counter derivatives clearingCiti provides clearing services for clients executing exchange traded 
futures and over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives contracts with central 
counterparties (CCPs). Based on all relevant facts and circumstances, 
Citi has concluded that it acts as an agent for accounting purposes in its 
role as clearing member for these client transactions. As such, Citi does 
not reflect the underlying exchange traded futures or OTC derivatives 
contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 23 for a 
discussion of Citi™s derivatives activities that are reflected in its Consolidated 
Financial Statements.As a clearing member, Citi collects and remits cash and securities 
collateral (margin) between its clients and the respective CCP. There are two 

types of margin: initial margin and variation margin. Where Citi obtains benefits from or controls cash initial margin (e.g., retains an interest 
spread), cash initial margin collected from clients and remitted to the 
CCP is reflected within Brokerage Payables (payables to customers) and 
Brokerage Receivables (receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing 
organizations), respectively. However, for OTC derivatives contracts where 

Citi has contractually agreed with the client that (a) Citi will pass through 
to the client all interest paid by the CCP on cash initial margin; (b) Citi 
will not utilize its right as clearing member to transform cash margin into 
other assets; and (c) Citi does not guarantee and is not liable to the client for 
the performance of the CCP, cash initial margin collected from clients and 

remitted to the CCP is not reflected on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The 

total amount of cash initial margin collected and remitted in this manner as 
of December 31, 2013 was approximately $1.4 billion.Variation margin due from clients to the respective CCP, or from the CCP 
to clients, reflects changes in the value of the client™s derivatives contracts for 

each trading day. As a clearing member, Citi is exposed to the risk of non-

performance by clients (e.g., failure of a client to post variation margin to the 
CCP for negative changes in the value of the client™s derivatives contracts). 

In the event of non-performance by a client, Citi would move to close out 
the client™s positions. The CCP would typically utilize initial margin posted 

by the client and held by the CCP, with any remaining shortfalls required to 

be paid by Citi as clearing member. Citi generally holds incremental cash or 

securities margin posted by the client, which would typically be expected to be 
sufficient to mitigate Citi™s credit risk in the event the client fails to perform.
As required by ASC 860-30-25-5, securities collateral posted by clients is not recognized on Citi™s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Derivative instruments considered to be guaranteesDerivatives are financial instruments whose cash flows are based on a 
notional amount and an underlying instrument, where there is little or no 
initial investment, and whose terms require or permit net settlement. For 
a discussion of Citi™s derivatives activities, see Note 23 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.298The derivative instruments considered to be guarantees, which are presented in the tables above, include only those instruments that require Citi to make payments to the counterparty based on changes in an underlying 
instrument that is related to an asset, a liability, or an equity security held by 

the guaranteed party. More specifically, derivative instruments considered to 

be guarantees include certain over-the-counter written put options where the 

counterparty is not a bank, hedge fund or broker-dealer (such counterparties 

are considered to be dealers in these markets and may, therefore, not hold the 

underlying instruments). Credit derivatives sold by Citi are excluded from the 
tables above as they are disclosed separately in Note 23 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. In instances where Citi™s maximum potential future 

payment is unlimited, the notional amount of the contract is disclosed.Loans sold with recourseLoans sold with recourse represent Citi™s obligations to reimburse the buyers 
for loan losses under certain circumstances. Recourse refers to the clause in a 
sales agreement under which a lender will fully reimburse the buyer/investor 
for any losses resulting from the purchased loans. This may be accomplished 
by the seller taking back any loans that become delinquent.In addition to the amounts shown in the tables above, Citi has recorded a repurchase reserve for its potential repurchases or make-whole liability 
regarding residential mortgage representation and warranty claims related 
to its whole loan sales to the U.S. government-sponsored enterprises 
(GSEs) and, to a lesser extent, private investors. The repurchase reserve was approximately $341 million and $1,565 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, and these amounts are included in 
Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Citi is also exposed to potential representation and warranty claims as a result of mortgage loans sold through private-label securitizations in its 
Consumer business in CitiMortgage as well as its legacy Securities and Banking business. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, Citi considers 
private-label securitization representation and warranty claims as part of its 
litigation accrual analysis and not as part of its repurchase reserve. See Note 
28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Securities lending indemnificationsOwners of securities frequently lend those securities for a fee to other parties 
who may sell them short or deliver them to another party to satisfy some 
other obligation. Banks may administer such securities lending programs for 
their clients. Securities lending indemnifications are issued by the bank to 
guarantee that a securities lending customer will be made whole in the event 
that the security borrower does not return the security subject to the lending 
agreement and collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the security.Credit card merchant processingCredit card merchant processing guarantees represent the Company™s indirect 
obligations in connection with: (i) providing transaction processing services 
to various merchants with respect to its private-label cards; and (ii) potential 
liability for bank card transaction processing services. The nature of the 
liability in either case arises as a result of a billing dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder™s 
favor. The merchant is liable to refund the amount to the cardholder. In 
general, if the credit card processing company is unable to collect this 
amount from the merchant, the credit card processing company bears the 
loss for the amount of the credit or refund paid to the cardholder.With regard to (i) above, Citi has the primary contingent liability with respect to its portfolio of private-label merchants. The risk of loss is mitigated 
as the cash flows between Citi and the merchant are settled on a net basis and 
Citi has the right to offset any payments with cash flows otherwise due to the 
merchant. To further mitigate this risk, Citi may delay settlement, require a 

merchant to make an escrow deposit, include event triggers to provide Citi 
with more financial and operational control in the event of the financial 
deterioration of the merchant, or require various credit enhancements 
(including letters of credit and bank guarantees). In the unlikely event 
that a private-label merchant is unable to deliver products, services or a 
refund to its private-label cardholders, Citi is contingently liable to credit or 
refund cardholders.With regard to (ii) above, Citi has a potential liability for bank card transactions where Citi provides the transaction processing services as well 
as those where a third party provides the services and Citi acts as a secondary 
guarantor, should that processor fail to perform.
Citi™s maximum potential contingent liability related to both bank card 
and private-label merchant processing services is estimated to be the total 
volume of credit card transactions that meet the requirements to be valid 
charge-back transactions at any given time. At December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, this maximum potential exposure was estimated to be 
$86 billion and $80 billion, respectively.
However, Citi believes that the maximum exposure is not representative 
of the actual potential loss exposure based on its historical experience. This 

contingent liability is unlikely to arise, as most products and services are 

delivered when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned 

to merchants. Citi assesses the probability and amount of its contingent 

liability related to merchant processing based on the financial strength of the 

primary guarantor, the extent and nature of unresolved charge-backs and 

its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 

the losses incurred and the carrying amounts of Citi™s contingent obligations 

related to merchant processing activities were immaterial.299Custody indemnificationsCustody indemnifications are issued to guarantee that custody clients will 
be made whole in the event that a third party subcustodian or depository 
institution fails to safeguard clients™ assets.Other guarantees and indemnificationsCredit Card Protection ProgramsCiti, through its credit card businesses, provides various cardholder protection 
programs on several of its card products, including programs that provide 
insurance coverage for rental cars, coverage for certain losses associated with 
purchased products, price protection for certain purchases and protection 
for lost luggage. These guarantees are not included in the table, since the 
total outstanding amount of the guarantees and Citi™s maximum exposure 
to loss cannot be quantified. The protection is limited to certain types of 
purchases and losses, and it is not possible to quantify the purchases that 
would qualify for these benefits at any given time. Citi assesses the probability 
and amount of its potential liability related to these programs based on the 
extent and nature of its historical loss experience. At December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, the actual and estimated losses incurred and the carrying 
value of Citi™s obligations related to these programs were immaterial.Other Representation and Warranty IndemnificationsIn the normal course of business, Citi provides standard representations 
and warranties to counterparties in contracts in connection with numerous 
transactions and also provides indemnifications, including indemnifications 
that protect the counterparties to the contracts in the event that additional 
taxes are owed due either to a change in the tax law or an adverse 
interpretation of the tax law. Counterparties to these transactions provide Citi 
with comparable indemnifications. While such representations, warranties 
and indemnifications are essential components of many contractual 
relationships, they do not represent the underlying business purpose for the 
transactions. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual 
terms related to Citi™s own performance under the terms of a contract and 
are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment 
that the risk of loss is remote. Often these clauses are intended to ensure 
that terms of a contract are met at inception. No compensation is received 
for these standard representations and warranties, and it is not possible to 
determine their fair value because they rarely, if ever, result in a payment. 
In many cases, there are no stated or notional amounts included in the 
indemnification clauses, and the contingencies potentially triggering the 
obligation to indemnify have not occurred and are not expected to occur. 
As a result, these indemnifications are not included in the tables above.Value-Transfer NetworksCiti is a member of, or shareholder in, hundreds of value-transfer networks 
(VTNs) (payment, clearing and settlement systems as well as exchanges) 
around the world. As a condition of membership, many of these VTNs require 
that members stand ready to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the organization due to another member™s default on its obligations. Citi™s 
potential obligations may be limited to its membership interests in the VTNs, 
contributions to the VTN™s funds, or, in limited cases, the obligation may 
be unlimited. The maximum exposure cannot be estimated as this would 
require an assessment of future claims that have not yet occurred. Citi 
believes the risk of loss is remote given historical experience with the VTNs. 
Accordingly, Citi™s participation in VTNs is not reported in the guarantees 
tables above, and there are no amounts reflected on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet as of December
 31, 2013 or December
 31, 2012 for potential obligations 
that could arise from Citi™s involvement with VTN associations.Long-Term Care Insurance IndemnificationIn the sale of an insurance subsidiary, the Company provided an 
indemnification to an insurance company for policyholder claims and 
other liabilities relating to a book of long-term care (LTC) business (for the 
entire term of the LTC policies) that is fully reinsured by another insurance 
company. The reinsurer has funded two trusts with securities whose fair 
value (approximately $5.4 billion at December 31, 2013, compared to 
$4.9 billion at December 31, 2012) is designed to cover the insurance 
company™s statutory liabilities for the LTC policies. The assets in these trusts 
are evaluated and adjusted periodically to ensure that the fair value of the 
assets continues to cover the estimated statutory liabilities related to the LTC 
policies, as those statutory liabilities change over time. If the reinsurer fails to perform under the reinsurance agreement for any reason, including insolvency, and the assets in the two trusts are insufficient 

or unavailable to the ceding insurance company, then Citi must indemnify 

the ceding insurance company for any losses actually incurred in connection 
with the LTC policies. Since both events would have to occur before Citi 

would become responsible for any payment to the ceding insurance company 
pursuant to its indemnification obligation, and the likelihood of such events 
occurring is currently not probable, there is no liability reflected in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 
related to this indemnification. Citi continues to closely monitor its potential 
exposure under this indemnification obligation.Carrying ValueŠGuarantees and IndemnificationsAt December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the total carrying amounts 
of the liabilities related to the guarantees and indemnifications included in 
the tables above amounted to approximately $1.3 billion and $3.2 billion, 
respectively. The decrease in the carrying value is primarily related to certain 
derivative instruments where Citi obtained additional contract level details 
during the second quarter of 2013, resulting in some of these contracts no 
longer being considered guarantees for disclosure purposes by Citi. Derivative 
instruments are included at fair value in either Trading account liabilities or Other liabilities, depending upon whether the derivative was entered into 
for trading or non-trading purposes. The carrying value of financial and 
performance guarantees is included in Other liabilities. For loans sold with recourse, the carrying value of the liability is included in Other liabilities.300CollateralCash collateral available to Citi to reimburse losses realized under these 
guarantees and indemnifications amounted to $52 billion and $39 billion 
at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Securities and 
other marketable assets held as collateral amounted to $39 billion and 
$51 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. The 
majority of collateral is held to reimburse losses realized under securities 
lending indemnifications. Additionally, letters of credit in favor of Citi held 
as collateral amounted to $5.3 billion and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012, respectively. Other property may also be available to 
Citi to cover losses under certain guarantees and indemnifications; however, 
the value of such property has not been determined.Performance risk
Citi evaluates the performance risk of its guarantees based on the assigned 
referenced counterparty internal or external ratings. Where external ratings 
are used, investment-grade ratings are considered to be Baa/BBB and above, 
while anything below is considered non-investment grade. Citi™s internal 
ratings are in line with the related external rating system. On certain 
underlying referenced credits or entities, ratings are not available. Such 
referenced credits are included in the ﬁnot ratedﬂ category. The maximum 
potential amount of the future payments related to guarantees and credit 
derivatives sold is determined to be the notional amount of these contracts, 
which is the par amount of the assets guaranteed.Presented in the tables below are the maximum potential amounts of future payments that are classified based upon internal and external credit 
ratings as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. As previously 
mentioned, the determination of the maximum potential future payments 
is based on the notional amount of the guarantees without consideration 
of possible recoveries under recourse provisions or from collateral held or 
pledged. As such, Citi believes such amounts bear no relationship to the 
anticipated losses, if any, on these guarantees.
Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2013
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal

$76.2$14.8$9.2$100.2
7.43.61.512.5
ŠŠ67.667.6ŠŠ0.30.3
ŠŠ79.279.2ŠŠ85.985.9
36.20.1Š36.3Total
$119.8$18.5$243.7$382.0Maximum potential amount of future paymentsIn billions of dollars at December 31, 2012
Investment gradeNon-investment gradeNot ratedTotal

˛˛ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˜˛˚˜ƒ˛
˛˜ƒ˚
⁄⁄⁄⁄
⁄⁄⁄⁄
˚ƒ˛⁄Total
301Credit Commitments and Lines of CreditThe table below summarizes Citigroup™s credit commitments as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012:In millions of dollarsU.S.Outside of U.S.Total 
December 31, 2013
˜˚˛˜$1,427$5,914$7,341
1,6843,2624,946
13,8792,90216,781
1,8308952,725507,913133,198641,111141,28795,425236,7121,6116112,222Total
$669,631$242,207$911,838The majority of unused commitments are contingent upon customers™ maintaining specific credit standards. Commercial commitments generally have floating interest rates and fixed expiration dates and may require 
payment of fees. Such fees (net of certain direct costs) are deferred and, upon 
exercise of the commitment, amortized over the life of the loan or, if exercise 

is deemed remote, amortized over the commitment period.Commercial and similar letters of creditA commercial letter of credit is an instrument by which Citigroup substitutes 
its credit for that of a customer to enable the customer to finance the 
purchase of goods or to incur other commitments. Citigroup issues a letter 
on behalf of its client to a supplier and agrees to pay the supplier upon 
presentation of documentary evidence that the supplier has performed in 
accordance with the terms of the letter of credit. When a letter of credit is 
drawn, the customer is then required to reimburse Citigroup.One- to four-family residential mortgagesA one- to four-family residential mortgage commitment is a written 
confirmation from Citigroup to a seller of a property that the bank will 
advance the specified sums enabling the buyer to complete the purchase.Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family  residential properties
Revolving open-end loans secured by one- to four-family residential 
properties are essentially home equity lines of credit. A home equity line 
of credit is a loan secured by a primary residence or second home to the 
extent of the excess of fair market value over the debt outstanding for the 
first mortgage.Commercial real estate, construction and land developmentCommercial real estate, construction and land development include 
unused portions of commitments to extend credit for the purpose of 
financing commercial and multifamily residential properties as well as land 
development projects. Both secured-by-real-estate and unsecured commitments are included in this line, as well as undistributed loan proceeds, where there is an obligation 
to advance for construction progress payments. However, this line only 

includes those extensions of credit that, once funded, will be classified as 
Total loans, net
 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.Credit card linesCitigroup provides credit to customers by issuing credit cards. The credit card 
lines are unconditionally cancellable by the issuer.Commercial and other consumer loan commitmentsCommercial and other consumer loan commitments include overdraft and 
liquidity facilities, as well as commercial commitments to make or purchase 
loans, to purchase third-party receivables, to provide note issuance or 
revolving underwriting facilities and to invest in the form of equity. Amounts 
include $58 billion and $53 billion with an original maturity of less than one 
year at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.In addition, included in this line item are highly leveraged financing commitments, which are agreements that provide funding to a borrower with 
higher levels of debt (measured by the ratio of debt capital to equity capital 
of the borrower) than is generally considered normal for other companies. 
This type of financing is commonly employed in corporate acquisitions, 
management buy-outs and similar transactions.Other commitments and contingenciesOther commitments and contingencies include all other transactions related 
to commitments and contingencies not reported on the lines above.30228. CONTINGENCIESAccounting and Disclosure FrameworkASC 450 governs the disclosure and recognition of loss contingencies, including potential losses from litigation and regulatory matters. ASC 450 
defines a ﬁloss contingencyﬂ as ﬁan existing condition, situation, or set of 
circumstances involving uncertainty as to possible loss to an entity that 
will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to 
occur.ﬂ It imposes different requirements for the recognition and disclosure 
of loss contingencies based on the likelihood of occurrence of the contingent 
future event or events. It distinguishes among degrees of likelihood using the 
following three terms: ﬁprobable,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe future event or events 
are likely to occurﬂ; ﬁremote,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe chance of the future event 
or events occurring is slightﬂ; and ﬁreasonably possible,ﬂ meaning that ﬁthe 
chance of the future event or events occurring is more than remote but less 
than likely.ﬂ These three terms are used below as defined in ASC 450.Accruals. ASC 450 requires accrual for a loss contingency when it is ﬁprobable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact 
of lossﬂ and ﬁthe amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.ﬂ In 
accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup establishes accruals for contingencies, 
including the litigation and regulatory matters disclosed herein, when 
Citigroup believes it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the 
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable 
estimate of the loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum amount 
of the range is accrued, unless some higher amount within the range is a 
better estimate than any other amount within the range. Once established, 
accruals are adjusted from time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional 
information. The amount of loss ultimately incurred in relation to those 
matters may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued for 
those matters.Disclosure. ASC 450 requires disclosure of a loss contingency if ﬁthere is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may have 
been incurredﬂ and there is no accrual for the loss because the conditions 
described above are not met or an exposure to loss exists in excess of the 
amount accrued. In accordance with ASC 450, if Citigroup has not accrued 
for a matter because Citigroup believes that a loss is reasonably possible but 
not probable, or that a loss is probable but not reasonably estimable, and 
the matter thus does not meet the criteria for accrual, and the reasonably 
possible loss is material, it discloses the loss contingency. In addition, 

Citigroup discloses matters for which it has accrued if it believes a reasonably 
possible exposure to material loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. 
In accordance with ASC 450, Citigroup™s disclosure includes an estimate of 

the reasonably possible loss or range of loss for those matters as to which an 
estimate can be made. ASC 450 does not require disclosure of an estimate 
of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss where an estimate cannot 
be made. Neither accrual nor disclosure is required for losses that are 
deemed remote.Contingencies Arising From Litigation and 
Regulatory MattersIn addition to the matters described below, in the ordinary course of business, 
Citigroup, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and current and former officers, 
directors and employees (for purposes of this section, sometimes collectively 
referred to as Citigroup and Related Parties) routinely are named as 
defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings. Certain 
of these actions and proceedings assert claims or seek relief in connection 
with alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, banking, 
antifraud, antitrust, anti-money laundering, employment and other statutory 
and common laws. Certain of these actual or threatened legal actions and 
proceedings include claims for substantial or indeterminate compensatory 
or punitive damages, or for injunctive relief, and in some instances seek 
recovery on a class-wide basis.In the ordinary course of business, Citigroup and Related Parties also are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal), certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, 
fines, penalties, restitution, disgorgement, injunctions or other relief. In 
addition, certain affiliates and subsidiaries of Citigroup are banks, registered 
broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, investment advisers or 

other regulated entities and, in those capacities, are subject to regulation 
by various U.S., state and foreign securities, banking, commodity futures, 
consumer protection and other regulators. In connection with formal and 
informal inquiries by these regulators, Citigroup and such affiliates and 
subsidiaries receive numerous requests, subpoenas and orders seeking 
documents, testimony and other information in connection with various 
aspects of their regulated activities. From time to time Citigroup and Related 
Parties also receive grand jury subpoenas and other requests for information 
or assistance, formal or informal, from federal or state law enforcement 
agencies, including among others various United States Attorneys™ Offices, 
the Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section and other divisions of 
the Department of Justice, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of 
the United States Department of the Treasury, and the Federal Bureau of 

Investigation, relating to Citigroup and its customers.Because of the global scope of Citigroup™s operations, and its presence 
in countries around the world, Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to 
litigation and governmental and regulatory examinations, information-
gathering requests, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 
informal) in multiple jurisdictions with legal and regulatory regimes that 
may differ substantially, and present substantially different risks, from those 

Citigroup and Related Parties are subject to in the United States. In some 
instances Citigroup and Related Parties may be involved in proceedings 
involving the same subject matter in multiple jurisdictions, which may result 
in overlapping, cumulative or inconsistent outcomes.Citigroup seeks to resolve all litigation and regulatory matters in the manner management believes is in the best interests of Citigroup and its 
shareholders, and contests liability, allegations of wrongdoing and, where 

applicable, the amount of damages or scope of any penalties or other relief 
sought as appropriate in each pending matter.
303Inherent Uncertainty of the Matters Disclosed. Certain of the matters disclosed below involve claims for substantial or indeterminate damages. The claims asserted in these matters typically are broad, often spanning a 
multi-year period and sometimes a wide range of business activities, and 
the plaintiffs™ or claimants™ alleged damages frequently are not quantified 
or factually supported in the complaint or statement of claim. Other matters 
relate to regulatory investigations or proceedings, as to which there may 
be no objective basis for quantifying the range of potential fine, penalty, or 

other remedy. As a result, Citigroup is often unable to estimate the loss in 

such matters, even if it believes that a loss is probable or reasonably possible, 
until developments in the case or investigation have yielded additional 
information sufficient to support a quantitative assessment of the range 
of reasonably possible loss. Such developments may include, among other 
things, discovery from adverse parties or third parties, rulings by the court 
on key issues, analysis by retained experts, and engagement in settlement 
negotiations. Depending on a range of factors, such as the complexity of 
the facts, the novelty of the legal theories, the pace of discovery, the court™s 

scheduling order, the timing of court decisions, and the adverse party™s 

willingness to negotiate in good faith toward a resolution, it may be months 
or years after the filing of a case or commencement of an investigation before 
an estimate of the range of reasonably possible loss can be made.Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made. For some of the matters disclosed below, Citigroup is currently able to estimate a reasonably possible 

loss or range of loss in excess of amounts accrued (if any). For some of the 
matters included within this estimation, an accrual has been made because 
a loss is believed to be both probable and reasonably estimable, but an 
exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued. In these cases, the 
estimate reflects the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of the accrued 
amount. For other matters included within this estimation, no accrual has 
been made because a loss, although estimable, is believed to be reasonably 
possible, but not probable; in these cases the estimate reflects the reasonably 
possible loss or range of loss. As of December 31, 2013, Citigroup estimates 
that the reasonably possible unaccrued loss in future periods for these 
matters ranges up to approximately $5 billion in the aggregate.These estimates are based on currently available information. As available information changes, the matters for which Citigroup is able to estimate will 
change, and the estimates themselves will change. In addition, while many 
estimates presented in financial statements and other financial disclosures 
involve significant judgment and may be subject to significant uncertainty, 

estimates of the range of reasonably possible loss arising from litigation and 
regulatory proceedings are subject to particular uncertainties. For example, 
at the time of making an estimate, Citigroup may have only preliminary, 

incomplete, or inaccurate information about the facts underlying the claim; 
its assumptions about the future rulings of the court or other tribunal 
on significant issues, or the behavior and incentives of adverse parties or 
regulators, may prove to be wrong; and the outcomes it is attempting to 
predict are often not amenable to the use of statistical or other quantitative 
analytical tools. In addition, from time to time an outcome may occur that 
Citigroup had not accounted for in its estimate because it had deemed such an outcome to be remote. For all these reasons, the amount of loss in excess 
of accruals ultimately incurred for the matters as to which an estimate has 
been made could be substantially higher or lower than the range of loss 
included in the estimate.Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made. For other matters disclosed below, Citigroup is not currently able to estimate the reasonably 

possible loss or range of loss. Many of these matters remain in very 
preliminary stages (even in some cases where a substantial period of time has 

passed since the commencement of the matter), with few or no substantive 
legal decisions by the court or tribunal defining the scope of the claims, the 
class (if any), or the potentially available damages, and fact discovery is still 
in progress or has not yet begun. In many of these matters, Citigroup has 
not yet answered the complaint or statement of claim or asserted its defenses, 
nor has it engaged in any negotiations with the adverse party (whether 
a regulator or a private party). For all these reasons, Citigroup cannot at 
this time estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, if any, for 

these matters.Opinion of Management as to Eventual Outcome. Subject to the foregoing, it is the opinion of Citigroup™s management, based on current 

knowledge and after taking into account its current legal accruals, that the 
eventual outcome of all matters described in this Note would not be likely 
to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition 
of Citigroup. Nonetheless, given the substantial or indeterminate amounts 
sought in certain of these matters, and the inherent unpredictability of such 
matters, an adverse outcome in certain of these matters could, from time 
to time, have a material adverse effect on Citigroup™s consolidated results of 

operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.Credit Crisis-Related Litigation and Other MattersCitigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous 
legal actions and other proceedings asserting claims for damages and 
related relief for losses arising from the global financial credit crisis that 
began in 2007. Such matters include, among other types of proceedings, 
claims asserted by: (i) individual investors and purported classes of 
investors in Citigroup™s common and preferred stock and debt, alleging 
violations of the federal securities laws, foreign laws, state securities and 
fraud law, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and 
(ii) individual investors and purported classes of investors in securities and 
other investments underwritten, issued or marketed by Citigroup, including 
securities issued by other public companies, collateralized debt obligations 
(CDOs), mortgage-backed securities (MBS), auction rate securities (ARS), 
investment funds, and other structured or leveraged instruments, which have 
suffered losses as a result of the credit crisis. These matters have been filed in 
state and federal courts across the U.S. and in foreign tribunals, as well as in 
arbitrations before the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and 
other arbitration associations.In addition to these litigations and arbitrations, Citigroup continues to cooperate fully in response to subpoenas and requests for information from 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), FINRA, state attorneys 
general, the Department of Justice and subdivisions thereof, the Office of 304the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, bank 
regulators, and other government agencies and authorities, in connection 
with various formal and informal (and, in many instances, industry-wide) 
inquiries concerning Citigroup™s mortgage-related conduct and business 

activities, as well as other business activities affected by the credit crisis. These 
business activities include, but are not limited to, Citigroup™s sponsorship, 

packaging, issuance, marketing, trading, servicing and underwriting of CDOs 
and MBS, and its origination, sale or other transfer, servicing, and foreclosure 

of residential mortgages.Mortgage-Related Litigation and Other MattersSecurities Actions: Beginning in November 2007, Citigroup and Related 
Parties were named as defendants in a variety of class and individual 
securities actions filed by investors in Citigroup™s equity and debt securities in 
state and federal courts relating to the Company™s disclosures regarding its 
exposure to subprime-related assets.Citigroup and Related Parties were named as defendants in the consolidated putative class action IN RE CITIGROUP INC. SECURITIES 
LITIGATION, filed in the United States District Court for the Southern 

District of New York. The consolidated amended complaint asserted claims 

under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on 
behalf of a putative class of purchasers of Citigroup common stock from 
January 1, 2004 through January 15, 2009. On November 9, 2010, the court 
issued an opinion and order dismissing all claims except those arising out of 
Citigroup™s exposure to CDOs for the time period February 1, 2007 through 

April 18, 2008. On August 30, 2012, the court entered an order preliminarily 
approving the parties™ proposed settlement, under which Citigroup agreed to 
pay $590 million in exchange for a release of all claims asserted on behalf 
of the settlement class. A fairness hearing was held on April 8, 2013. On 
August 1, 2013, the court entered a final order approving the settlement. 
Appeals from the final order have been dismissed or voluntarily withdrawn. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the consolidated lead docket number 07 Civ. 9901 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Stein, J.), and 13-3531, 13-3539, and 13-3710 (2d Cir.).
Citigroup and Related Parties were named as defendants in the consolidated putative class action IN RE CITIGROUP INC. BOND 
LITIGATION, also filed in the United States District Court for the Southern 

District of New York. The consolidated amended complaint asserted claims 

under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 on behalf of a 
putative class of purchasers of $71 billion of debt securities and preferred 
stock issued by Citigroup between May 2006 and August 2008. On July 12, 
2010, the court issued an opinion and order dismissing plaintiffs™ claims 
under Section 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, but denying defendants™ 
motion to dismiss certain claims under Section 11. On March 25, 2013, 
the court entered an order preliminarily approving the parties™ proposed 
settlement, under which Citigroup agreed to pay $730 million in exchange for a release of all claims asserted on behalf of the settlement class. A fairness 
hearing was held on July 23, 2013. On August 20, 2013, the court entered a 
final order approving the settlement. In a separate order dated December 19, 
2013, the court awarded fees to class counsel. On January 14, 2014, an 
objector to the settlement filed a notice of appeal from the fee award. 
Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in court 
filings under the consolidated lead docket number 08 Civ. 9522 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Stein, J.).Citigroup and Related Parties also have been named as defendants in a variety of other putative class actions and individual actions arising out 
of similar facts to those alleged in the actions described above. Many of 
these matters have been dismissed or settled. These actions assert a wide 
range of claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, foreign 
securities laws, ERISA, and state law. Additional information concerning 

certain of these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
numbers 09 Civ. 7359 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.), 10 Civ. 9646 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.). 

11 Civ. 7672 (S.D.N.Y.) (Koeltl, J.), 12 Civ. 6653 (S.D.N.Y.) (Stein, J.) and 

13-4488, 13-4504 (2d Cir.).
Beginning in November 2007, certain Citigroup affiliates also have been named as defendants arising out of their activities as underwriters 
of securities in actions brought by investors in securities issued by public 
companies adversely affected by the credit crisis. Many of these matters 
have been dismissed or settled. As a general matter, issuers indemnify 

underwriters in connection with such claims, but in certain of these matters 
Citigroup affiliates are not being indemnified or may in the future cease to be 
indemnified because of the financial condition of the issuer.
Regulatory Actions: On October 19, 2011, in connection with its industry-wide investigation concerning CDO-related business activities, the SEC filed 
a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York regarding Citigroup™s structuring and sale of the Class V Funding 

III CDO (Class V). On the same day, the SEC and Citigroup announced a 

settlement of the SEC™s claims, subject to judicial approval, and the SEC filed 

a proposed final judgment pursuant to which Citigroup™s U.S. broker-dealer 

Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI) agreed to disgorge $160 million 
and to pay $30 million in prejudgment interest and a $95 million penalty. 

On November 28, 2011, the court issued an order refusing to approve the 
proposed settlement and ordering trial to begin on July 16, 2012. The 
parties appealed from this order to the United States Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit which, on March 15, 2012, granted a stay of the district court 
proceedings pending resolution of the appeals. The parties have fully briefed 
their appeals, and the Second Circuit held oral argument on February 8, 
2013. Additional information concerning this action is publicly available in 
court filings under the docket numbers 11 Civ. 7387 (S.D.N.Y.) (Rakoff, J.) 

and 11-5227 (2d Cir.).
305In connection with the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working 
Group industry-wide investigation, the Department of Justice has issued subpoenas seeking information and testimony relating to Citigroup™s 

issuance, sponsoring, and underwriting of MBS. Citigroup also has received 
a grand jury subpoena seeking information relating to two related MBS 
issuances in mid-2007. In addition, Citigroup has received subpoenas 
and requests for information from several state attorneys general and the 
SEC relating to Citigroup™s MBS-related business activities. Citigroup is 

cooperating fully with these inquiries.Mortgage-Backed Securities and CDO Investor Actions: Beginning in July 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants 
in complaints filed by purchasers of MBS and CDOs sold or underwritten 
by Citigroup. The MBS-related complaints generally assert that defendants 
made material misrepresentations and omissions about the credit quality 
of the mortgage loans underlying the securities, such as the underwriting 
standards to which the loans conformed, the loan-to-value ratio of the loans, 
and the extent to which the mortgaged properties were owner-occupied, and 

typically assert claims under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, state 
blue sky laws, and/or common-law misrepresentation-based causes of action. 
The CDO-related complaints further allege that the defendants adversely 
selected or permitted the adverse selection of CDO collateral without full 
disclosure to investors. Plaintiffs in these actions generally seek rescission 
of their investments, recovery of their investment losses, or other damages. 
Other purchasers of MBS and CDOs sold or underwritten by Citigroup have 
threatened to file additional lawsuits, for some of which Citigroup has agreed 
to toll (extend) the statute of limitations.The filed actions generally are in the early stages of proceedings, and many of the actions or threatened actions have been resolved 
through settlement or otherwise. As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate 
original purchase amount of the purchases at issue in the filed suits was 
approximately $7.3 billion, and the aggregate original purchase amount 
of the purchases covered by tolling agreements with investors threatening 
litigation was approximately $1.4 billion. Information concerning certain of 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
12 Civ. 4000 (S.D.N.Y.) (Swain, J.), CV-2012-901036 (Ala. Cir. Ct.) (Price, J.), 

12 Civ. 4354 (C.D. Cal.) (Pfaelzer, J.), 650212/2012 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.) (Oing, J.), 

653990/2013 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.), CGC-10-501610 (Cal. Super. Ct.) (Kramer, J.), 

and 14 Civ. 252 (C.D. Cal.) (Pfaelzer, J.).
On September 2, 2011, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), 
as conservator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, filed an action against 
Citigroup and Related Parties, which was coordinated in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York with 15 other related suits 

brought by the same plaintiff against various other financial institutions. 
Motions to dismiss in the coordinated suits were denied in large part. 
In connection with a settlement of these claims under which Citigroup 
agreed to pay FHFA $250 million, on May 29, 2013, the court so-ordered a 

stipulation of voluntary dismissal with prejudice in FEDERAL HOUSING 
FINANCE AGENCY v. CITIGROUP INC., ET AL., and on June 24, 2013, the 

court entered orders of voluntary dismissal with prejudice and bar orders in FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY v. JPMORGAN CHASE & CO., ET AL., 

and FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY v. ALLY FINANCIAL INC., ET AL., 

dismissing with prejudice all claims against Citigroup in those actions. 
Additional information concerning these actions is publicly available 
in court filings under the docket numbers 11 Civ. 6196, 6188, and 7010 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Cote, J.).
Mortgage-Backed Security Repurchase Claims: Various parties to 
MBS securitizations and other interested parties have asserted that certain 
Citigroup affiliates breached representations and warranties made in 
connection with mortgage loans sold into securitization trusts (private-
label securitizations). Typically, these claims are based on allegations 

that securitized mortgages were not underwritten in accordance with the 
applicable underwriting standards and that misrepresentations were made 
during the mortgage application and approval process. Citigroup also has 
received numerous inquiries, demands for loan files, and requests to toll 
(extend) the applicable statutes of limitation for representation and warranty 
claims relating to its private-label securitizations. These inquiries, demands 
and requests have been made by trustees of securitization trusts and others.The vast majority of repurchase claims concerning Citigroup™s private-
label securitizations have not been resolved. Most of these claims and related 
activities concern mortgages in 67 private-label securitizations issued by 
entities associated with Securities and Banking (S&B) legacy securitizations 
during the period from 2005 through 2007. The initial issuance balance 
of those securitizations was $59.2 billion, and as of year-end 2013, those 

securitizations have a current outstanding balance of $15.8 billion and 
realized losses totaling $10.7 billion.Among these requests, in December 2011, Citigroup received a letter from the law firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP, which purports to represent a group 

of investment advisers and holders of MBS issued or underwritten by 
entities associated with S&B legacy securitizations. Through that letter 
and subsequent discussions, Gibbs & Bruns LLP has asserted that its clients 
collectively hold certificates in 110 MBS trusts purportedly issued and/or 
underwritten by those affiliates, and that those affiliates have repurchase 
obligations for certain mortgages in these trusts.To date, plaintiffs have filed actions against Citigroup seeking to enforce 
certain of these contractual repurchase claims in connection with three 
private-label securitizations. Each of the three actions is in the early stages 
of proceedings. In the aggregate, plaintiffs are asserting repurchase claims 
as to approximately 2,900 loans that were securitized into these three 
securitizations, as well as any other loans that are later found to have 
breached representations and warranties. Further information concerning 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 
13 Civ. 2843 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), 13 Civ. 6989 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.), and 

653816/2013 (N.Y. Sup. Ct.).
306Counterparty and Investor Actions In 2010, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) commenced an arbitration 
(ADIA I) against Citigroup and Related Parties before the International 
Center for Dispute Resolution (ICDR), alleging statutory and common 
law claims in connection with its $7.5 billion investment in Citigroup in 
December 2007. ADIA sought rescission of the investment agreement or, in 
the alternative, more than $4 billion in damages. Following a hearing in 
May 2011 and post-hearing proceedings, on October 14, 2011, the arbitration 
panel issued a final award and statement of reasons finding in favor of 
Citigroup on all claims asserted by ADIA. On March 4, 2013, the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York denied ADIA™s petition 
to vacate the arbitration award and granted Citigroup™s cross-petition to 
confirm. ADIA appealed, and on February 19, 2014, the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the judgment. Additional information 

concerning this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket 
numbers 12 Civ. 283 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.) and 13-1068-cv (2d Cir.).On August 20, 2013, ADIA commenced a second arbitration (ADIA II) against Citigroup before the ICDR, alleging common law claims arising out 
of the same investment at issue in ADIA I. On August 28, 2013, Citigroup 
filed a complaint against ADIA in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York seeking to enjoin ADIA II on the ground that it 

is barred by the court™s judgment confirming the arbitral award in ADIA I. On 

September 23, 2013, ADIA filed motions to dismiss Citigroup™s complaint and 

to compel arbitration. On November 25, 2013, the court denied Citigroup™s 

motion for a preliminary injunction and granted ADIA™s motions to dismiss 

and to compel arbitration. On December 23, 2013, Citigroup appealed that 
ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket numbers 13 Civ. 6073 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.) and 13-4825 

(2d Cir.).
Alternative Investment Fund-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Since mid-2008, the SEC has been investigating the management and 
marketing of the ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds, alternative investment 
funds managed and marketed by certain Citigroup affiliates that suffered 
substantial losses during the credit crisis. In addition to the SEC inquiry, 
on June 11, 2012, the New York Attorney General served a subpoena on a 
Citigroup affiliate seeking documents and information concerning certain 
of these funds; on August 1, 2012, the Massachusetts Attorney General 
served a Civil Investigative Demand on a Citigroup affiliate seeking similar 
documents and information. Citigroup is cooperating fully with these 
inquiries. Citigroup has entered into tolling agreements with the New York 
Attorney General concerning certain claims related to the investigations.Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit filed in October 2012 on behalf of investors 
in CSO Ltd., CSO US Ltd., and Corporate Special Opportunities Ltd., whose 
investments were managed indirectly by a Citigroup affiliate. Plaintiffs 
assert a variety of state common law claims, alleging that they and other investors were misled into investing in the funds and, later, not redeeming 

their investments. The complaint seeks to recover more than $400 million 
on behalf of a putative class of investors. Additional information concerning 
this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 
12-cv-7717 (S.D.N.Y.) (Castel, J.).
In addition, numerous investors in the ASTA/MAT funds have filed 
lawsuits or arbitrations against Citigroup and Related Parties seeking 
damages and related relief. Although most of these investor disputes have 
been resolved, some remain pending.Auction Rate Securities-Related Litigation and Other Matters
Citigroup and Related Parties have been named as defendants in numerous 
actions and proceedings brought by Citigroup shareholders and purchasers 
or issuers of ARS, asserting federal and state law claims arising from the 
collapse of the ARS market in early 2008, which plaintiffs contend Citigroup 
and other ARS underwriters and broker-dealers foresaw or should have 
foreseen, but failed adequately to disclose. Many of these matters have 
been dismissed or settled. Most of the remaining matters are in arbitrations 
pending before FINRA.KIKOsPrior to the devaluation of the Korean won in 2008, several local banks in 
Korea, including Citibank Korea Inc. (CKI), entered into foreign exchange 
derivative transactions with small and medium-size export businesses 
(SMEs) to enable the SMEs to hedge their currency risk. The derivatives had 
ﬁknock-in, knock-outﬂ features. Following the devaluation of the won, many 
of these SMEs incurred significant losses on the derivative transactions and 
filed civil lawsuits against the banks, including CKI. The claims generally 
allege that the products were not suitable and that the risk disclosure was 
inadequate.As of December 31, 2013, there were 102 civil lawsuits filed by SMEs against CKI. To date, 84 decisions have been rendered at the district court 

level, and CKI has prevailed in 64 of those decisions. In the other 20 
decisions, plaintiffs were awarded only a portion of the damages sought. 
The damage awards total in the aggregate approximately $37.2 million. 
CKI is appealing the 20 adverse decisions. A significant number of plaintiffs 
that had decisions rendered against them are also filing appeals, including 
plaintiffs that were awarded less than all of the damages they sought.Of the 84 cases decided at the district court level, 62 have been appealed to the high court, including the 20 in which an adverse decision was rendered 
against CKI in the district court. Of the 27 appeals decided or settled at high 
court level, CKI prevailed in 17 cases, and in the other 10 cases plaintiffs 
were awarded partial damages, which increased the aggregate damages 
awarded against CKI by a further $10.1 million. CKI is appealing nine of the 
adverse decisions to the Korean Supreme Court and many plaintiffs have filed 
appeals to the Supreme Court as well.As of December 31, 2013, the Supreme Court has rendered five judgments relating to CKI, and CKI has prevailed in all five cases.307Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy ProceedingsBeginning in September 2010, Citigroup and Related Parties have been 
named as defendants in various adversary proceedings and claim objections 
in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings of Lehman Brothers Holdings 
Inc. (LBHI) and the liquidation proceedings of Lehman Brothers Inc. (LBI). 
Information concerning the bankruptcy proceedings is publicly available 
under the docket numbers 08-13555 and 08-01420 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) 
(Chapman, J.).On February 8, 2012, Citigroup and Related Parties were named as defendants in an adversary proceeding asserting objections to proofs of 
claim totaling approximately $2.6 billion filed by Citibank, N.A. and its 
affiliates, and claims under federal bankruptcy and state law to recover 
$2 billion deposited by LBHI with Citibank, N.A. against which Citibank, 
N.A. asserts a right of setoff. Plaintiffs also seek avoidance of a $500 million 
transfer and an amendment to a guarantee in favor of Citibank, N.A. 
and other relief. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on November 16, 
2012, asserting additional claims. On May 14, 2013, the court approved an 
agreement by the parties pursuant to which Citibank, N.A. agreed to pay 
plaintiffs approximately $167 million resolving, in part, one of plaintiffs™ 
claims. Discovery concerning the remaining claims is ongoing. Additional 
information concerning this adversary proceeding is publicly available 
in court filings under the docket numbers 12-01044 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) 

(Chapman, J.) and 08-13555 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (Chapman, J.).
On May 6, 2013, Citibank, N.A. filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Barclays Bank, 

PLC (Barclays) based on an indemnification agreement pursuant to which 
Barclays agreed to indemnify Citibank, N.A. for losses incurred as a result 
of Citibank, N.A.™s provision of foreign exchange clearing and settlement 

services to LBI in September 2008. Citibank, N.A. seeks to recover its 
remaining principal claims against LBI in the amount of $91 million, as 
well as attorneys™ fees, statutory prejudgment interest, and funding losses. Citi 
is carrying a receivable in Other assets related to the expected recovery under 
the indemnity based on its expectation that it will recover from Barclays 
on the claims. Additional information relating to this action is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket number 13 Civ. 3063 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Schofield, J.).Terra Firma LitigationIn December 2009, the general partners of two related private equity funds 
filed a complaint in New York state court, subsequently removed to the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting 
multi-billion-dollar fraud and other common law claims against certain 
Citigroup affiliates arising out of the May 2007 auction of the music 
company EMI, in which Citigroup acted as advisor to EMI and as a lender to 
plaintiffs™ acquisition vehicle. Following a jury trial, a verdict was returned 
in favor of Citigroup on November 4, 2010. Plaintiffs appealed from the 
entry of the judgment. On May 31, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit vacated the November 2010 jury verdict in favor of Citigroup and ordered that the case be retried. A retrial is scheduled to begin 
on July 7, 2014. Additional information relating to this action is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 09 Civ. 10459 (S.D.N.Y.) 
(Rakoff, J.) and 11-0126-cv (2d Cir.).In August and September 2013, the plaintiffs in the New York proceedings, 
together with their affiliates and principal, filed fraud and negligent 
misrepresentation claims arising out of the EMI auction in the High Court 
of Justice, Queen™s Bench Division, Manchester District Registry Mercantile 

Court in Manchester, England, against certain Citigroup affiliates. The 

cases have since been transferred to the High Court of Justice, Queen™s 

Bench Division, Commercial Court in London. The plaintiffs have elected 
to proceed with only one of the cases. Additional information relating to the 
surviving action is available in court filings under the caption Terra Firma 
Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. & Ors v Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.& Ors (Claim No. 3MA40121).Terra Securities-Related LitigationCertain Citigroup affiliates have been named as defendants in an action 
brought by seven Norwegian municipalities, asserting claims for fraud and 
negligent misrepresentation arising out of the municipalities™ purchase 
of fund-linked notes acquired from the now-defunct securities firm Terra 
Securities, which in turn acquired those notes from Citigroup. Plaintiffs 
seek approximately $120 million in compensatory damages, plus punitive 
damages. On March 28, 2013, the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York granted defendants™ motion for summary 
judgment dismissing all remaining claims asserted by seven Norwegian 
municipalities. Plaintiffs appealed this ruling, and on February 18, 2014, 
the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued a summary 
order affirming the dismissal. Additional information related to this action 
is publicly available in court filings under the docket numbers 09 Civ. 7058 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Marrero, J.) and 13-1188-cv (2nd Cir.).Tribune Company Bankruptcy
Certain Citigroup affiliates have been named as defendants in adversary 
proceedings related to the Chapter 11 cases of Tribune Company (Tribune) 
filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware, 
asserting claims arising out of the approximately $11 billion leveraged 
buyout of Tribune in 2007. On August 2, 2013, the Litigation Trustee, as 
successor plaintiff to the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, filed 
a fifth amended complaint in the adversary proceeding KIRSCHNER v. 
FITZSIMONS, ET AL. The complaint seeks to avoid and recover as actual 
fraudulent transfers the transfers of Tribune stock that occurred as a part of 
the leveraged buyout. Several Citigroup affiliates are named as ﬁShareholder Defendantsﬂ and are alleged to have tendered Tribune stock to Tribune as a part of the buyout. CGMI also has been named in a separate action as 
a defendant in connection with its role as advisor to Tribune. Additional 
information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket numbers 08-13141 (Bankr. D. Del.) (Carey, J.), 11 MD 
02296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.), and 12 MC 2296 (S.D.N.Y.) (Sullivan, J.).308Money Laundering InquiriesCitigroup and Related Parties, including Citigroup™s affiliate Banamex USA, have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the United States Attorney™s 
Office for the District of Massachusetts, concerning, among other issues, 
policies, procedures and activities related to compliance with Bank Secrecy 
Act and anti-money laundering requirements under applicable federal laws 
and banking regulations. Banamex USA also has received a subpoena from 
the FDIC related to its Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering program. 

Citigroup is cooperating fully with these inquiries.Credit Default Swaps MattersIn April 2011, the European Commission (EC) opened an investigation (Case 
No COMP/39.745) into the CDS industry. The scope of the investigation 
initially concerned the question of ﬁwhether 16 investment banks and 
Markit, the leading provider of financial information in the CDS market, 
have colluded and/or may hold and abuse a dominant position in order to 
control the financial information on CDS.ﬂ On July 2, 2013, the EC issued 
to Citigroup, CGMI, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd., Citicorp North America 
Inc., and Citibank, N.A., as well as Markit, ISDA, and 12 other investment 
bank dealer groups, a Statement of Objections alleging that Citigroup and 
the other dealers colluded to prevent exchanges from entering the credit 
derivatives business in breach of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning 
of the European Union. The Statement of Objections sets forth the EC™s 
preliminary conclusions, does not prejudge the final outcome of the case, 
and does not benefit from the review and consideration of Citigroup™s 
arguments and defenses. Citigroup filed a Reply to the Statement of 
Objections on January 23, 2014, and it will have the opportunity to make oral 
submissions to the EC, likely during the course of 2014. In July 2009 and September 2011, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice served Civil Investigative Demands (CIDs) on Citigroup 
concerning potential anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry. Citigroup 

has responded to the CIDs and is cooperating with the investigation. In addition, putative class action complaints have been filed by various entities against Citigroup, CGMI and Citibank, N.A., among other 
defendants, alleging anticompetitive conduct in the CDS industry and 
asserting various claims under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act as 
well as a state law claim for unjust enrichment. On October 16, 2013, 
the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation centralized numerous 
putative class actions filed by various entities against Citigroup, CGMI and 
Citibank, N.A., among other defendants, alleging anticompetitive conduct 
in the credit default swaps industry and ordered that those actions pending 
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois be 
transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of 
New York for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings before Judge 

Denise Cote. Additional information relating to these actions is publicly 
available in court filings under the docket numbers 1:13-cv-03357 (N.D. Ill.), 
1:13-cv-04979 (N.D. Ill.), 1:13-cv-04928 (S.D.N.Y.), 1:13-cv-05413 (N.D. 

Ill.), and 1:13-cv-05417 (N.D. Ill.), 1:13-cv-05725 (N.D. Ill.), and 13-cv-6116 
(S.D.N.Y.).
Foreign Exchange MattersGovernment agencies in the U.S. and other jurisdictions are conducting 
investigations or making inquiries regarding trading on the foreign 
exchange markets. Citigroup has received requests for information and 
is cooperating with the investigations and inquiries and responding to 
the requests.Numerous foreign exchange dealers, including Citibank, N.A., Citigroup, and, in certain cases, Citigroup Forex, Inc., are named as defendants in 
putative class actions that are proceeding on a consolidated basis before 
Judge Schofield in the United States District Court for the Southern District 
of New York under the caption IN RE FOREIGN EXCHANGE BENCHMARK 

RATES ANTITRUST LITIGATION. The plaintiffs in these actions allege that 

the defendants colluded to manipulate the WM/Reuters rate (WMR), thereby 
causing the putative classes to suffer losses in connection with WMR-based 
financial instruments. The plaintiffs assert federal and state antitrust claims 
and claims for unjust enrichment, and seek compensatory damages, treble 
damages where authorized by statute, restitution, and declaratory and 
injunctive relief. Additional information concerning these consolidated 
actions is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 
1:13-cv-7789. Additionally, Citibank, N.A., Citigroup, and CKI, as well as 

numerous other foreign exchange dealers, are named as defendants in a 
putative class action captioned SIMMTECH CO. v. BARCLAYS BANK PLC, ET 

AL., that is also proceeding before Judge Schofield in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York. The plaintiff seeks to represent 

a putative class of persons who traded foreign currency with the defendants 
in Korea, alleging that the class suffered losses as a result of the defendants™ 
alleged WMR manipulation. The plaintiff asserts federal and state antitrust 
claims, and seeks compensatory damages, treble damages, and declaratory 
and injunctive relief. Additional information concerning this action is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket number 1:13-cv-7953.Interbank Offered Rates-Related Litigation and 
Other MattersRegulatory Actions: Government agencies in the U.S., including the 
Department of Justice, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the 
SEC, and a consortium of state attorneys general, as well as agencies in 
other jurisdictions, including the EC, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, 
the Japanese Financial Services Agency (JFSA), the Swiss Competition 
Commission and the Monetary Authority of Singapore, are conducting 
investigations or making inquiries regarding submissions made by panel 
banks to bodies that publish various interbank offered rates and other 
benchmark rates. As members of a number of such panels, Citigroup 
subsidiaries have received requests for information and documents. Citigroup 
is cooperating with the investigations and inquiries and is responding to 
the requests.309On December 16, 2011, the JFSA took administrative action against Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. (CGMJ) for, among other things, 
certain communications made by two CGMJ traders about the Euroyen 
Tokyo interbank offered rate (TIBOR) and the Japanese yen London 

interbank offered rate (LIBOR). The JFSA issued a business improvement 
order and suspended CGMJ™s trading in derivatives related to yen LIBOR 

and Euroyen and yen TIBOR from January 10 to January 23, 2012. On the 
same day, the JFSA also took administrative action against Citibank Japan 

Ltd. (CJL) for conduct arising out of CJL™s retail business and also noted that 

the communications made by the CGMJ traders to employees of CJL about 
Euroyen TIBOR had not been properly reported to CJL™s management team.
On December 4, 2013, the EC announced a settlement with Citigroup and CGMJ resolving the EC™s investigation into yen LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR. As 

detailed in the EC™s announcement, Citigroup was among five banks and one 

interdealer broker settling the EC™s investigation.
 As part of the settlement, 
Citigroup has agreed to pay a fine of 70,020,000 Euro.Antitrust and Other Litigation: Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other U.S. Dollar (USD) LIBOR panel banks, are defendants in a 
multi-district litigation (MDL) proceeding before Judge Buchwald in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned 

IN RE LIBOR-BASED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ANTITRUST LITIGATION 

(the LIBOR MDL), appearing under docket number 1:11-md-2262 (S.D.N.Y.). 

Judge Buchwald appointed interim lead class counsel for, and consolidated 

amended complaints were filed on behalf of, three separate putative classes 
of plaintiffs: (i) over-the-counter (OTC) purchasers of derivative instruments 

tied to USD LIBOR; (ii) purchasers of exchange-traded derivative instruments 
tied to USD LIBOR; and (iii) indirect OTC purchasers of U.S. debt securities. 
Each of these putative classes alleged that the panel bank defendants 
conspired to suppress USD LIBOR in violation of the Sherman Act and/or 
the Commodity Exchange Act, thereby causing plaintiffs to suffer losses on 
the instruments they purchased. Also consolidated into the MDL proceeding 
were individual civil actions commenced by various Charles Schwab entities 
alleging that the panel bank defendants conspired to suppress the USD 
LIBOR rates in violation of the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and 
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), and California state law, causing the 

Schwab entities to suffer losses on USD LIBOR-linked financial instruments 
they owned. Plaintiffs in these actions sought compensatory damages 
and restitution for losses caused by the alleged violations, as well as treble 
damages under the Sherman Act. The Schwab and OTC plaintiffs also sought 
injunctive relief.Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other defendants, moved to dismiss all of the above actions. On March 29, 2013, Judge Buchwald issued 
an opinion and order dismissing the plaintiffs™ federal and state antitrust 
claims, RICO claims and unjust enrichment claims in their entirety, 

but allowing certain of the plaintiffs™ Commodity Exchange Act claims 
to proceed.On August 23, 2013, Judge Buchwald issued a decision resolving several motions filed after the March 29, 2013 order. Pursuant to the August 23, 2013 

decision, on September 10, 2013, consolidated second amended complaints 
were filed by interim lead plaintiffs for the putative classes of (i) OTC 
purchasers of derivative instruments tied to USD LIBOR and (ii) purchasers 
of exchange-traded derivative instruments tied to USD LIBOR. Each of these 
putative classes continues to allege that the panel bank defendants conspired 
to suppress USD LIBOR: (i) OTC purchasers assert claims under the Sherman 
Act and for unjust enrichment and breach of the implied covenant of good 
faith and fair dealing and (ii) purchasers of exchange-traded derivative 
instruments assert claims under the Commodity Exchange Act and the 
Sherman Act and for unjust enrichment.On September 17, 2013, the plaintiff class of indirect OTC purchasers of U.S. debt securities filed an appeal in the Second Circuit of Judge Buchwald™s 

March 29, 2013 and August 23, 2013 orders. The Schwab plaintiffs filed a 
separate appeal in the Second Circuit on September 24, 2013. The Second 
Circuit dismissed the appeals on October 30, 2013, and denied the plaintiffs™ 
motions to reconsider dismissal on December 16, 2013.As part of the August 23, 2013 order, Judge Buchwald also continued 
the stay of all actions that have been consolidated into the LIBOR MDL 
proceeding after June 29, 2012. Citigroup and/or Citibank, N.A. are named 
in 36 such stayed actions. The stayed actions include lawsuits filed by, or on 

behalf of putative classes of, community and other banks, savings and loans 
institutions, credit unions, municipalities and purchasers and holders of 
LIBOR-linked financial products. As a general matter, plaintiffs allege that 

defendant panel banks artificially suppressed USD LIBOR, thereby decreasing 
the amount plaintiffs would have received in the absence of manipulation. 
Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, various forms of enhanced damages, 
and declaratory and injunctive relief. Additional information relating to 
these actions is publicly available in court filings under the following docket 
numbers: 1:12-cv-4205 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:12-cv-5723 (S.D.N.Y.) 

(Buchwald, J.); 1:12-cv-5822 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:12-cv-6056 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:12-cv-6693 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:12-cv-

7461 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 2:12-cv-6294 (E.D.N.Y.) (Seybert, J.); 2:12-

cv-10903 (C.D. Cal.) (Snyder, J.); 3:12-cv-6571 (N.D. Cal.) (Conti, J.); 3:13-

cv-106 (N.D. Cal.) (Beller, J.); 4:13-cv-108 (N.D. Cal.) (Ryu, J.); 3:13-cv-109 

(N.D. Cal.) (Laporte, J.); 3:13-cv-48 (S.D. Cal.) (Sammartino, J.); 5:13-cv-62 
(C.D. Cal.) (Phillips, J.); 1:13-cv-346 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:13-cv-407 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 5:13-cv-122 (C.D. Cal.) (Bernal, J.); 1:13-cv-1016 

(S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:13-cv-1456 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:13-

cv-1700 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:13-cv-342 (E.D. Va.) (Brinkema, J.); 

1:13-cv-2297 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 4:13-cv-2244 (N.D. Cal.) (Hamilton, 

J.); 3:13-cv-2921 (N.D. Cal.) (Chesney, J.); 3:13-cv-1466 (S.D. Cal.) (Lorenz, 

J.); 3:13-cv-2979 (N.D. Cal.) (Tigar, J.); 4:13-cv-2149 (S.D. Tex.) (Hoyt, J.); 

2:13-cv-1476 (E.D. Cal.) (Mueller, J.); 1:13-cv-4018 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, 

J.); 2:13-cv-4352 (E.D. Pa.) (Restrepo, J.); 4:13-cv-334 (S.D. Iowa) (Pratt. J.); 
4:13-cv-335 (S.D. Iowa) (Pratt, J.); 1:13-cv-7720 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 

1:13-cv-7720 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.); 1:13-cv-5278 (N.D. Cal.) (Vadas, J.); 

and 1:14-cv-146 (S.D.N.Y.) (Buchwald, J.).
310Citigroup and Citibank, N.A., along with other USD LIBOR panel banks, are also named as defendants in an individual action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on February 13, 

2013, captioned 7 WEST 57th STREET REALTY CO. v. CITIGROUP, INC., 
ET AL. The plaintiff filed an amended complaint on June 11, 2013, 
asserting federal and state antitrust claims and federal RICO claims and 
seeking compensatory damages, treble damages where authorized by 
statute, and declaratory relief. The plaintiff alleges that the defendant panel 
banks manipulated USD LIBOR to keep it artificially high and that this 
manipulation affected the value of plaintiffs™ OTC municipal bond portfolio. 
The defendants have moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and briefing 
on the motions to dismiss was completed on December 13, 2013. Additional 
information concerning this action is publicly available in court filings 
under the docket number 1:13-cv-981 (Gardephe, J.).Separately, on April 30, 2012, an action was filed in the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of New York captioned 

LAYDON V. MIZUHO BANK LTD. ET AL. The plaintiff filed an amended 

complaint on November 30, 2012, naming as defendants banks that are or 
were members of the panels making submissions used in the calculation 
of Japanese yen LIBOR and TIBOR, and certain affiliates of those banks, 
including Citigroup, Citibank, N.A., CJL and CGMJ. On April 15, 2013, 
the plaintiff filed a second amended complaint alleging that defendants, 
including Citigroup, Citibank, N.A., CJL and CGMJ, manipulated Japanese 
yen LIBOR and TIBOR in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act and 
the Sherman Act. The second amended complaint asserts claims under 
these acts and for unjust enrichment on behalf of a putative class of persons 
and entities that engaged in U.S.-based transactions in Euroyen TIBOR 
futures contracts between January 2006 and December 2010. Plaintiffs seek 
compensatory damages, treble damages under the Sherman Act, restitution, 
and declaratory and injunctive relief. The defendants have moved to dismiss 
the second amended complaint, and briefing on the motions to dismiss 
was completed on October 16, 2013. Additional information concerning 
this action is publicly available in court filings under the docket number 
1:12-cv-3419 (S.D.N.Y.) (Daniels, J.).
Interchange Fees LitigationBeginning in 2005, several putative class actions were filed against Citigroup 
and Related Parties, together with Visa, MasterCard and other banks and 
their affiliates, in various federal district courts and consolidated with other 
related cases in a multi-district litigation proceeding before Judge Gleeson 
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This 
proceeding is captioned IN RE PAYMENT CARD INTERCHANGE FEE AND 
MERCHANT DISCOUNT ANTITRUST LITIGATION.The plaintiffs, merchants that accept Visa- and MasterCard-branded 
payment cards as well as membership associations that claim to represent 
certain groups of merchants, allege, among other things, that defendants 
have engaged in conspiracies to set the price of interchange and merchant discount fees on credit and debit card transactions and to restrain trade 
through various Visa and MasterCard rules governing merchant conduct, all 

in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act and certain California statutes. 
Plaintiffs seek, on behalf of classes of U.S. merchants, treble damages, 
including all interchange fees paid to all Visa and MasterCard members 

with respect to Visa and MasterCard transactions in the U.S. since at least 

January 1, 2004, as well as injunctive relief. Supplemental complaints have 
also been filed against defendants in the putative class actions alleging that 
Visa™s and MasterCard™s respective initial public offerings were anticompetitive 

and violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act, and that MasterCard™s initial public 

offering constituted a fraudulent conveyance.On July 13, 2012, all parties to the putative class actions, including Citigroup and Related Parties, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding 

(MOU) setting forth the material terms of a class settlement. The class 
settlement contemplated by the MOU provides for, among other things, a 

total payment by all defendants to the class of $6.05 billion; a rebate to 
merchants participating in the damages class settlement of 10 basis points on 
interchange collected for a period of eight months by the Visa and MasterCard 

networks; changes to certain network rules that would permit merchants 
to surcharge some payment card transactions subject to certain limitations 
and conditions, including disclosure to consumers at the point of sale; and 
broad releases in favor of the defendants. Subsequently, all defendants and 

certain of the plaintiffs who had entered into the MOU executed a settlement 
agreement consistent with the terms of the MOU.Visa and MasterCard have also entered into a settlement agreement 
with merchants that filed individual, non-class actions. While Citigroup 
and Related Parties are not parties to the individual merchant non-class 
settlement agreement, they are contributing to that settlement, and 
the agreement provides for a release of claims against Citigroup and 
Related Parties.On November 27, 2012, the court entered an order granting preliminary approval of the proposed class settlements and provisionally certified two 
classes for settlement purposes only. The United States District Court for 

the Eastern District of New York held a hearing on September 12, 2013 

to consider whether the class settlements should be finally approved. On 
December 13, 2013, the court entered an order granting final approval to 
the class settlement, and on January 14, 2014, the court entered a final 
judgment. Additional information concerning these consolidated actions is 
publicly available in court filings under the docket number MDL 05-1720 
(E.D.N.Y.) (Gleeson, J.). A number of objectors have filed an appeal of the 

final approval order with the Second Circuit Court of Appeals.Numerous merchants, including large national merchants, have requested exclusion (opted out) from the class settlements, and some of 
those opting out have filed complaints against Visa, MasterCard, and in 

some instances one or more issuing banks. Two of these suits, 7-ELEVEN, 

INC., ET AL. v. VISA INC., ET AL., and SPEEDY STOP FOOD STORES, LLC, 
311ET AL. v. VISA INC., ET AL., name Citigroup as a defendant. Additional 
information concerning these actions is publicly available in court filings 
under docket numbers 1:13-CV-04442 (S.D.N.Y.) (Hellerstein, J.) and 

13-10-75377A (Tex. D. Ct).
Regulatory Review of Consumer ﬁAdd-Onﬂ ProductsCertain of Citi™s consumer businesses, including its Citi-branded and retail 
services cards businesses, offer or have in the past offered or participated 
in the marketing, distribution, or servicing of products, such as payment 
protection and identity monitoring, that are ancillary to the provision of 
credit to the consumer (add-on products). These add-on products have been 
the subject of enforcement actions against other institutions by regulators, 
including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the OCC, 
and the FDIC, that have resulted in orders to pay restitution to customers 
and penalties in substantial amounts. Citi has made restitution to certain 
customers in connection with certain add-on products and anticipates 
making additional restitution. Certain state attorneys general also have 
filed industry-wide suits under state consumer protection statutes, alleging 
deceptive marketing practices in connection with the sale of payment 
protection products and demanding restitution and statutory damages 
for in-state customers. In light of the current regulatory focus on add-on 
products and the actions regulators have taken in relation to other credit card 
issuers, one or more regulators may order that Citi pay additional restitution 
to customers and/or impose penalties or other relief arising from Citi™s 
marketing, distribution, or servicing of add-on products.Parmalat Litigation and Related MattersOn July 29, 2004, Dr. Enrico Bondi, the Extraordinary Commissioner 
appointed under Italian law to oversee the administration of various 
Parmalat companies, filed a complaint in New Jersey state court against 
Citigroup and Related Parties alleging, among other things, that the 
defendants ﬁfacilitatedﬂ a number of frauds by Parmalat insiders. On 
October 20, 2008, following trial, a jury rendered a verdict in Citigroup™s 
favor on Parmalat™s claims and in favor of Citibank, N.A. on three 
counterclaims. Parmalat has exhausted all appeals, and the judgment is now 
final. Additional information concerning this matter is publicly available in 
court filings under docket number A-2654-08T2 (N.J. Sup. Ct.).Prosecutors in Parma and Milan, Italy, have commenced criminal 
proceedings against certain current and former Citigroup employees (along 
with numerous other investment banks and certain of their current and 
former employees, as well as former Parmalat officers and accountants). In the event of an adverse judgment against the individuals in question, 
the authorities could seek administrative remedies against Citigroup. 
On April 18, 2011, the Milan criminal court acquitted the sole Citigroup 
defendant of market-rigging charges. The Milan prosecutors have appealed 
part of that judgment and seek administrative remedies against Citigroup, 
which may include disgorgement of 70 million Euro and a fine of 900,000 
Euro. On April 4, 2013, the Italian Supreme Court granted the appeal of 
the Milan Public Prosecutors and referred the matter to the Milan Court 
of Appeal for further proceedings concerning the administrative liability, if 

any, of Citigroup. Additionally, the Parmalat administrator filed a purported 

civil complaint against Citigroup in the context of the Parma criminal 
proceedings, which seeks 14 billion Euro in damages. The trial in the Parma 
criminal proceedings is ongoing. Judgment is expected towards the end of 
2014. In January 2011, certain Parmalat institutional investors filed a civil 
complaint seeking damages of approximately 130 million Euro against 
Citigroup and other financial institutions.Allied Irish Bank LitigationIn 2003, Allied Irish Bank (AIB) filed a complaint in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to hold Citibank, N.A. 
and Bank of America, N.A., former prime brokers for AIB™s subsidiary Allfirst 
Bank (Allfirst), liable for losses incurred by Allfirst as a result of fraudulent 
and fictitious foreign currency trades entered into by one of Allfirst™s traders. 
AIB seeks compensatory damages of approximately $500 million, plus 
punitive damages, from Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. collectively. 
In 2006, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants™ motion 
to dismiss. In 2009, AIB filed an amended complaint. In 2012, the parties 
completed discovery and the court granted Citibank, N.A.™s motion to strike 
AIB™s demand for a jury trial. Citibank, N.A. also filed a motion for summary 
judgment, which is pending. AIB has announced a settlement with Bank 
of America, N.A. for an undisclosed amount, leaving Citibank, N.A. as the 
sole remaining defendant. Additional information concerning this matter 
is publicly available in court filings under docket number 03 Civ. 3748 
(S.D.N.Y.) (Batts, J.).Settlement PaymentsPayments required in settlement agreements described above have been 
made or are covered by existing litigation accruals.31229. SUBSEQUENT EVENTAs disclosed on February 28, 2014, Citi™s results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2013 and full year 2013 were impacted by an estimated 
$235 million after-tax ($360 million pretax) charge resulting from a fraud 
discovered in Banco Nacional de Mexico (Banamex), a Citi subsidiary 
in Mexico, in February 2014. For additional information, see Citi™s 
Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2014. The fraud increased fourth quarter of 2013 operating 
expenses in Transaction Services by an estimated $400 million, with an 
offset to compensation expense of approximately $40 million associated with 
the Banamex variable compensation plan. Citi™s results of operations for 
2013, as reported in this Annual Report of Form 10-K, reflect the impact of 
the fraud based on Citi™s review to date.30. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)2013˜˚˛˜In millions of dollars, except per share amountsFourthThirdSecondFirstRevenues, net of interest expense
$17,780$17,880$20,479$20,227
12,29311,65512,14012,267
2,0721,9592,0242,459Income from continuing operations before income taxes$3,415$4,266$6,315$5,501…1,0901,0802,1271,570……Income from continuing operations$2,325$3,186$4,188$3,931
1819230(33)…˛˜Net income before attribution of noncontrolling interests$2,506$3,278$4,218$3,89850513690Citigroup™s net income
$2,456$3,227$4,182$3,808Earnings per share (1)Basic
$0.71$0.98$1.34$1.240.771.011.351.23Diluted
0.710.981.331.240.771.001.341.23Common stock price per share
$53.29$53.00$53.27$47.6047.6747.6742.5041.1552.1148.5147.9744.240.010.010.010.01˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛˚ƒ˚˛’™
‡˛…ƒ
[End of Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements]313FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENTRATIOS2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ
0.73%
7.0
6.9š
10.5
0.9†˛“

†˜“

†’“

AVERAGE DEPOSIT LIABILITIES IN OFFICES OUTSIDE THE U.S. (1)2013˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛In millions of dollars at year end except ratios
Average
 interest rateAverage
 balance—

—
—

—
0.68%$63,759ƒƒ0.57220,599
1.06262,924Total
0.82%$547,282ƒƒ†˛“
†˜“
MATURITY PROFILE OF TIME DEPOSITS ($100,000 OR MORE) IN U.S. OFFICESIn millions of dollars 
at December 31, 2013
Under 3 monthsOver 3 to 6 monthsOver 6 to 12 monthsOver 12 months
$19,314$7,346$1,996$1,08557641,2081,380314SUPERVISION, REGULATION AND OTHERSUPERVISION AND REGULATIONCitigroup is subject to regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as applicable laws in the other jurisdictions in which it does business.GeneralAs a registered bank holding company and financial holding company, 
Citigroup is regulated and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board. 
Citigroup™s nationally chartered subsidiary banks, including Citibank, N.A., 
are regulated and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(OCC) and its state-chartered depository institution by the relevant state™s 
banking department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 
The FDIC also has back-up enforcement authority for banking subsidiaries 
whose deposits it insures. Overseas branches of Citibank, N.A. are regulated 
and supervised by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC and overseas subsidiary 
banks by the Federal Reserve Board. Such overseas branches and subsidiary 
banks also are regulated and supervised by regulatory authorities in the 
host countries. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB) regulates consumer financial products and services.A U.S. financial holding company and the companies under its control are permitted to engage in a broader range of activities in the U.S. and 
abroad than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. 
Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve Board, financial holding 
companies generally can engage, directly or indirectly in the U.S. and 
abroad, in financial activities, either de novo or by acquisition, by providing 
after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve Board. These financial activities 

include underwriting and dealing in securities, insurance underwriting 
and brokerage and making investments in non-financial companies for a 
limited period of time (as long as Citi does not manage the non-financial 
company™s day-to-day activities, and its banking subsidiaries engage only in 

permitted cross-marketing with the non-financial company). If Citigroup 
ceases to qualify as a financial holding company, it could be barred from new 

financial activities or acquisitions, and could have to discontinue the broader 
range of activities permitted to financial holding companies.Citi is permitted to acquire U.S. depository institutions, including out-of-state banks, subject to certain restrictions and the prior approval of federal 
banking regulators. In addition, intrastate bank mergers are permitted 
and banks in states that do not prohibit out-of-state mergers may merge. 
A national bank also can generally establish a new branch in any state, 
and state banks can generally establish a new branch in another state, in 
either case to the same extent as banks organized in the state where the new 
branch is to be established. However, all bank holding companies, including 

Citigroup, must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before 
acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository 
institution or bank holding company. The Federal Reserve Board must also 

approve certain additional capital contributions to an existing non-U.S. 
investment and certain acquisitions by Citigroup of an interest in a non-U.S. 
company, including in a foreign bank, as well as the establishment by 

Citibank, N.A. of foreign branches in certain circumstances.For more information on U.S. and foreign regulation affecting Citigroup and its subsidiaries, see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.Other Bank and Bank Holding Company RegulationCitigroup and its banking subsidiaries are subject to other regulatory 
limitations, including requirements for banks to maintain reserves against 
deposits, requirements as to risk-based capital and leverage (see ﬁCapital 
Resourcesﬂ above and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
restrictions on the types and amounts of loans that may be made and 
the interest that may be charged, and limitations on investments that 
can be made and services that can be offered. The Federal Reserve Board 
may also expect Citigroup to commit resources to its subsidiary banks in 
certain circumstances. Citigroup is also subject to anti-money laundering 
and financial transparency laws, including standards for verifying client 
identification at account opening and obligations to monitor client 
transactions and report suspicious activities.Securities and Commodities RegulationCitigroup conducts securities underwriting, brokerage and dealing activities 
in the U.S. through Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (CGMI), its primary 
broker-dealer, and other broker-dealer subsidiaries, which are subject to 
regulations of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and 
certain exchanges, among others. Citigroup conducts similar securities 
activities outside the U.S., subject to local requirements, through various 
subsidiaries and affiliates, principally Citigroup Global Markets Limited 
in London (CGML), which is regulated principally by the U.K. Financial 
Conduct Authority, and Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo, which 
is regulated principally by the Financial Services Agency of Japan.Citigroup also has subsidiaries that are members of futures exchanges and are registered accordingly. In the U.S., CGMI is a member of the principal 

U.S. futures exchanges, and Citigroup has subsidiaries that are registered 
as futures commission merchants and commodity pool operators with the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). On December 31, 2012, 

Citibank, N.A., CGMI, and Citigroup Energy Inc., registered as swap dealers 
with the CFTC. On October 9, 2013, CGML also registered as a swap dealer 
with the CFTC. CGMI is also subject to Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC and Rule 1.17 
of the CFTC, which specify uniform minimum net capital requirements. 
Compliance with these rules could limit those operations of CGMI that 
require the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting and trading 
activities and the financing of customer account balances, and also limits 
the ability of broker-dealers to transfer large amounts of capital to parent 

companies and other affiliates. See also ﬁCapital ResourcesŠCitigroup 
Broker-Dealer Subsidiariesﬂ and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for a further discussion of capital considerations of Citigroup™s 
non-banking subsidiaries.315Changes in RegulationProposals to change the laws and regulations affecting the banking and financial services industries are frequently introduced in Congress, before 
regulatory bodies and abroad that may affect the operating environment of 
Citigroup and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. This 
has been particularly true as a result of the financial crisis. Citigroup cannot 
determine whether any such proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, 
the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation or implementing 
regulations would have upon the financial condition or results of operations 
of Citigroup or its subsidiaries. For additional information on regulatory 
changes, see ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ above.DividendsIn addition to Board of Directors™ approval, Citigroup™s ability to pay 
common stock dividends substantially depends on regulatory approval, 
including an annual regulatory review of the results of the Comprehensive 
Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process required by the Federal 
Reserve Board and the supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-
Frank Act. See ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above. For 
information on the ability of Citigroup™s subsidiary depository institutions 
and non-bank subsidiaries to pay dividends, see Note 19 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.Transactions with AffiliatesThe types and amounts of transactions between Citigroup™s U.S. subsidiary 
depository institutions and their non-bank affiliates are regulated by the 
Federal Reserve Board, and are generally required to be on arm™s-length 
terms. See also ﬁManaging Global RiskŠMarket RiskŠFunding and 
Liquidityﬂ above.Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository 
InstitutionIf the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. 
subsidiary depository institution such as Citibank, N.A., upon its insolvency or 
certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the depository 
institution™s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of 
the depository institution™s creditors, enforce the terms of the depository 
institution™s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm 
contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party.Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain 
claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution 
would be afforded priority over other general unsecured claims against 
such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and 
depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such 
an institution by any receiver. As a result, such persons would be treated 

differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the 
depositors in U.S. offices of the depository institution.An FDIC-insured financial institution that is affiliated with a failed FDIC-insured institution may have to indemnify the FDIC for losses resulting from 
the insolvency of the failed institution. Such an FDIC indemnity claim is 
generally superior in right of payment to claims of the holding company and 
its affiliates and depositors against such depository institution.Privacy and Data SecurityCitigroup is subject to many U.S., state and international laws and 
regulations relating to policies and procedures designed to protect the non-
public information of its consumers. Citigroup must periodically disclose 
its privacy policies to consumers and in certain circumstances must permit 
consumers to opt out of the company™s ability to share such information 
with third-party non-affiliates and affiliates™ use of such information for 
marketing. See also ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above.DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO SECTION 219 OF THE IRAN THREAT REDUCTION AND SYRIA HUMAN RIGHTS ACTPursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Section 219), which added Section 13(r) to the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Citi is required to disclose in its annual 
or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly 
engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with 
individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law. Disclosure 
is generally required even where the activities, transactions or dealings were 
conducted in compliance with applicable law. Citi has previously disclosed 
reportable activities pursuant to Section 219 for each of the first, second and 
third quarters of 2013 in its related quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.During the fourth quarter of 2013, Citibank Bahrain processed one domestic check transaction involving Future Bank, an Office of Foreign 
Assets Control (OFAC) Designated Bank. This transaction resulted in no 

revenues or net profit to Citi.In addition, Citibank™s branch operation in the United Arab Emirates 
(Citibank UAE) is compelled by local law to participate in the local 
government-run Wage Protection System (WPS), an electronic salary-

transfer platform that is operated by the Central Bank of the UAE (CBUAE). 
All registered financial institutions are required by local law to participate in 
the WPS. Under the WPS, each local employer sends a secure file to its bank 
which in turn must process the file payments via the WPS to the various 
receiving banks where the employees hold their accounts. While transactions 
clear through the WPS at the CBUAE and Citibank UAE does not transact 
directly with the counterparty banks, certain OFAC Designated Banks are 

participants in the WPS and act as sending and/or receiving banks. Citi has 
discussed those banks™ participation and the WPS requirements with OFAC, 

and has a license application pending with the agency.
During the fourth quarter of 2013, Citibank UAE processed two WPS payments that were destined to the account of one of its commercial 
customer™s employees at an OFAC Designated Bank. The aggregate value of 

the transactions was approximately $2,900 and the gross revenue and net 
profit to Citi was approximately $14.00 and $9.00, respectively.
316Citibank, N.A., has one credit card account for the Iranian Mission to the United Nations located in the United States. This is a commercial account used primarily for the purchase of gasoline. The provision of certain services 
in the United States to the diplomatic mission of the Government of Iran was 
authorized by an OFAC General License, however, in October 2012, certain 

additional requirements were published. With regard to these requirements, 
Citi has applied to OFAC for a specific license for this account. From the 

fourth quarter of 2012, through the end of the fourth quarter of 2013, the 
aggregate value of the transactions for this account was approximately 
$18,300. The transactions did not generate any revenue or net profit for Citi.CUSTOMERSIn Citi™s judgment, there is no customer the loss of which would have 
a material adverse effect on any reportable segment about which 
financial information is presented in Citi™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. In addition, no customer accounts for at least 10% of Citi™s 
consolidated revenues.COMPETITIONThe financial services industry, including each of Citigroup™s businesses, 
is highly competitive. Citigroup™s competitors include a variety of other 
financial services and advisory companies such as banks, thrifts, credit 
unions, credit card issuers, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, 
investment banking companies, brokerage firms, investment advisory 
companies, hedge funds, private equity funds, securities processing 
companies, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, automobile 
financing companies, and internet-based financial services companies.Citigroup competes for clients and capital (including deposits and funding in the short- and long-term debt markets) with some of these 
competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis. 
Citigroup™s competitive position depends on many factors, including the 

value of Citi™s brand name, reputation, the types of clients and geographies 

served, the quality, range, performance, innovation and pricing of products 

and services, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, 
technology advances, customer service and convenience, effectiveness 
of transaction execution, interest rates and lending limits, regulatory 
constraints and the effectiveness of sales promotion efforts. Citigroup™s ability 

to compete effectively also depends upon its ability to attract new employees 
and retain and motivate existing employees, while managing compensation 
and other costs. See ﬁRisk FactorsŠBusiness and Operational Risksﬂ above.In recent years, Citigroup has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses. For example, the increased pressure on trading 
commissions from growing direct access to automated, electronic markets 
could impact Securities and Banking, and technological advances that 
enable more companies to provide funds transfers may diminish the 
importance of Global Consumer Banking™s
 role as a financial intermediary.
Over time, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in certain sectors of the financial services industry. This consolidation 

accelerated in recent years as a result of the financial crisis, through mergers, 
acquisitions and bankruptcies, and may produce larger, better capitalized 

and more geographically diverse competitors able to offer a wider array of 
products and services at more competitive prices around the world.PROPERTIESCitigroup™s principal executive offices are located at 399 Park Avenue in 
New York City, which offices are the subject of a lease. Citigroup also has 
additional office space at 601 Lexington Avenue in New York City under a 
long-term lease, and at 111 Wall Street in New York City under a lease of the 
entire building. Citibank, N.A. leases one building and owns a commercial 
condominium unit in a separate building in Long Island City, New York, 
each of which are fully occupied by Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries.Citigroup Global Markets Holdings Inc.™s principal offices are located at 
388 Greenwich Street in New York City, and 390 Greenwich Street in New York 

City, with both buildings subject to long term-leases and fully occupied by 

Citigroup and certain of its subsidiaries.Citigroup™s principal executive offices in 
EMEA are located at 25 and 33 Canada Square in London™s Canary Wharf, with both buildings subject to 

long-term leases. Citigroup is the largest tenant of 25 Canada Square and the 
sole tenant of 33 Canada Square.In Asia, Citigroup™s principal executive offices are in leased premises 
located at Citibank Tower in Hong Kong. Citigroup also has significant lease 

premises in Singapore and Japan. Citigroup has major or full ownership 
interests in country headquarter locations in Shanghai, Seoul, Kuala 
Lumpur, Manila, and
 Mumbai.Citigroup™s principal executive offices in Mexico, which also serve as the 
headquarters of Banamex, are located in Mexico City, in a two-tower complex 

with six floors each, totaling 257,000 rentable square feet.Citigroup™s principal executive offices for 
Latin America (other than Mexico) are located in leased premises located in Miami, on 9 floors at the 
Miami Center building, totaling 158,000 rentable square feet.Citigroup also owns or leases over 69.3 million square feet of real estate in 101 countries, consisting of 10,855 properties.Citigroup continues to evaluate its global real estate footprint and current and projected space requirements and may determine from time to time that 
certain of its premises and facilities are no longer necessary for its operations. 
There is no assurance that Citigroup will be able to dispose of any such 
excess premises or that it will not incur charges in connection with such 
dispositions. Such disposition costs may be material to Citigroup™s operating 

results in a given period.Citi has developed programs for its properties to achieve long-term energy efficiency objectives and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to 
lessen its impact on climate change. These activities could help to mitigate, 
but will not eliminate, Citi™s potential risk from future climate change 

regulatory requirements.For further information concerning leases, see Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.LEGAL PROCEEDINGSFor a discussion of Citigroup™s litigation and regulatory matters, see Note 28 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.317UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY, PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES, DIVIDENDSUnregistered Sales of Equity SecuritiesNone.Equity Security RepurchasesThe following table summarizes Citigroup™s equity security repurchases, which consisted entirely of common stock repurchases, during the three months ended December 31, 2013:In millions, except per share amounts
Total shares
 purchasedAverage
 price paid per shareApproximate dollar value of shares that
 may yet be purchased under the plan or programsOctober 20133.0$48.58$435ŠŠN/ANovember 2013
0.148.71432ŠŠN/ADecember 20131.351.70363ŠŠN/ATotal
4.4$49.52$363†˛“



†˜“




™ﬁ—
DividendsAny dividend on Citi™s outstanding common stock would also be subject 
to regulatory approval and need to be made in compliance with Citi™s 
obligations to its outstanding preferred stock.318PERFORMANCE GRAPHComparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total ReturnThe following graph and table compare the cumulative total return on Citigroup™s common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 
500 Index and the S&P Financial Index over the five-year period through 
December 31, 2013. The graph and table assume that $100 was invested on 
December 31, 2008 in Citigroup™s common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the 
S&P Financial Index, and that all dividends were reinvested.050100150200250Citigroup
S&P 500 IndexS&P Financial IndexComparison of Five-Year Cumulative 
Total ReturnFor the years ended201320082009201020112012•—š‰
˝›š›˛319CORPORATE INFORMATION CITIGROUP EXECUTIVE OFFICERSCitigroup™s executive officers as of March 3, 2014 are:NameAgePosition and office held

˝‰‹⁄
˝‰‹⁄

š
š
ˆ


˝‰‹⁄

˝‰‹⁄

‘˚

‘’š

˝‰‹⁄
‘’˝‰‹⁄


˝‰‹⁄
¡

¡
‘’
Each executive officer has held executive or management positions with Citigroup for at least five years, except that: Mr. McQuade joined Citi in 2009. Prior to joining Citi, Mr. McQuade was Vice Chairman of Merrill Lynch and President of Merrill Lynch Banks 
(U.S.) from February 2008 until February 2009. Previously, he was the 
President and Chief Operating Officer of Freddie Mac for three years. Prior 
to joining Freddie Mac in 2004, Mr. McQuade served as President of Bank 
of America Corporation. Mr. Weerasinghe joined Citi in June 2012. Prior to joining Citi, 
Mr. Weerasinghe was Senior Partner at Shearman & Sterling.Code of Conduct, Code of EthicsCitigroup has a Code of Conduct that maintains its commitment to the 
highest standards of conduct. The Code of Conduct is supplemented 
by a Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals (including accounting, 
controllers, financial reporting operations, financial planning and analysis, 
treasury, tax, strategy and M&A, investor relations and regional/product 
finance professionals and administrative staff) that applies worldwide. The 
Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals applies to Citigroup™s principal 
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting 
officer. Amendments and waivers, if any, to the Code of Ethics for Financial 
Professionals will be disclosed on Citi™s website, www.citigroup.com.Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals can be found on the Citigroup website by clicking on ﬁAbout 
Us,ﬂ and then ﬁCorporate Governance.ﬂ Citi™s Corporate Governance 

Guidelines can also be found there, as well as the charters for the Audit 
Committee, the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee, 
the Personnel and Compensation Committee and the Risk Management 
and Finance Committee of the Board. These materials are also available by 
writing to Citigroup Inc., Corporate Governance, 601 Lexington Avenue, 19th 

Floor, New York, New York
 10022.320Stockholder InformationCitigroup common stock is listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol ﬁCﬂ and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Mexico Stock Exchange. Citigroup 
preferred stock Series AA, C, J, K and L are also listed on the NYSE.Because Citigroup™s common stock is listed on the NYSE, the Chief 
Executive Officer is required to make an annual certification to the NYSE 
stating that he was not aware of any violation by Citigroup of the corporate 
governance listing standards of the NYSE. The annual certification to that 
effect was made to the NYSE on May 23, 2013.As of January 31, 2014, Citigroup had approximately 97,478 common stockholders of record. This figure does not represent the actual number of 
beneficial owners of common stock because shares are frequently held in 
ﬁstreet nameﬂ by securities dealers and others for the benefit of individual 
owners who may vote the shares.Transfer AgentStockholder address changes and inquiries regarding stock transfers, 
dividend replacement, 1099-DIV reporting and lost securities for common 
and preferred stock should be directed to:Computershare
P.O. Box 43078

Providence, RI 02940-3078
Telephone No. 781 575 4555

Toll-free No. 888 250 3985

E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
Web address: 
www.computershare.com/investor
Exchange AgentHolders of Golden State Bancorp, Associates First Capital Corporation, 
Citicorp or Salomon Inc. common stock, Citigroup Inc. Preferred Stock 
Series Q or T should arrange to exchange their certificates by contacting:Computershare
P.O. Box 43078

Providence, RI 02940-3078
Telephone No. 781 575 4555

Toll-free No. 888 250 3985

E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
Web address: 
www.computershare.com/investor

On May 9, 2011, Citi effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split. All Citi 
common stock certificates issued prior to that date must be exchanged for 
new certificates by contacting Computershare at the address noted above.Citi™s 2013 Form 10-K filed with the SEC, as well as other annual and 
quarterly reports, are available from Citi Document Services toll free at 877 
936 2737 (outside the United States at 716 730 8055), by e-mailing a request 
to docserve@citi.com, or by writing to:Citi Document Services
540 Crosspoint Parkway
Getzville, NY 14068Stockholder InquiriesInformation about Citi, including quarterly earnings releases and filings with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, can be accessed via its website 
at www.citigroup.com. Stockholder inquiries can also be directed by e-mail to 
shareholderrelations@citi.com.321
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 3rd day 
of March,
 
2014.
Citigroup
 
Inc.
(Registrant)
John C. Gerspach
Chief Financial Officer
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 3rd day of March,
 
2014.
Citigroup™s Principal Executive Officer and a
 
Director:
Michael L. Corbat
Citigroup™s Principal Financial
 
Officer:
John C. Gerspach
Citigroup™s Principal Accounting
 
Officer:
Jeffrey R. Walsh
The Directors of Citigroup listed below executed a power of attorney 
appointing John C. Gerspach their attorney-in-fact, empowering him to sign 
this report on their
 
behalf.





š



ł˘

š



John C. Gerspach
322CITIGROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORSMichael L. CorbatChief Executive OfficerCitigroup Inc.Duncan P. HennesCo-Founder and Partner
Atrevida Partners, LLCFranz B. HumerChairman
Roche Holding Ltd.Robert L. JossPhilip H. Knight Professor and Dean Emeritus
 
Stanford University
Graduate School of BusinessMichael E. O™NeillChairman
Citigroup Inc.Gary M. ReinerOperating Partner 
General Atlantic LLCJudith RodinPresident
Rockefeller FoundationRobert L. RyanChief Financial Officer, Retired 
Medtronic Inc.Anthony M. SantomeroFormer President
Federal Reserve Bank of PhiladelphiaJoan E. SperoSenior Research Scholar
Columbia UniversitySchool of International
and Public AffairsDiana L. TaylorManaging Director
Wolfensohn Fund  Management, L.P.William S. Thompson, Jr.Chief Executive Officer, Retired
Pacific Investment Management Company
 
(PIMCO)James S. TurleyFormer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
Ernst & Young
Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de 
LeonDirector, Center for the Study of Globalization; Professor in the Field 
of International 
Economics and Politics 
Yale UniversityStockholder Information
Produced by Citi Graphic Communications.
Citigroup common stock is listed on the NYSE under the ticker 
symbol ﬁCﬂ and on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Mexico 
Stock Exchange. Citigroup preferred stock Series AA, C, J, K 
and L are also listed on the NYSE.
Because Citigroup™s common stock is listed on the NYSE, 
the Chief Executive Of˜cer is required to make an annual 
certi˜cation to the NYSE stating that he was not aware of 

any violation by Citigroup of the corporate governance listing 
standards of the NYSE. The annual certi˜cation to that effect 
was made to the NYSE on May 23, 2013.
As of January 31, 2014, Citigroup had approximately 97,478 
common stockholders of record. This ˜gure does not 
represent the actual number of bene˜cial owners of common 

stock because shares are frequently held in ﬁstreet nameﬂ 
by securities dealers and others for the bene˜t of individual 
owners who may vote the shares.
Transfer Agent
Stockholder address changes and inquiries regarding stock 
transfers, dividend replacement, 1099-DIV reporting and 

lost securities for common and preferred stock should be 
directed to:
Computershare
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 Telephone No. 781 575 4555
 
Toll-free No. 888 250 3985
 E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
 Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
Exchange Agent

Holders of Golden State Bancorp, Associates First Capital 
Corporation, Citicorp or Salomon Inc. common stock, Citigroup 
Inc. Preferred Stock Series Q or T should arrange to exchange 

their certi˜cates by contacting:
Computershare
 P.O. Box 43078
 
Providence, RI 02940-3078
 Telephone No. 781 575 4555
 Toll-free No. 888 250 3985
 
E-mail address: shareholder@computershare.com
 Web address: www.computershare.com/investor
On May 9, 2011, Citi effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split. 
All Citi common stock certi˜cates issued prior to that date 
must be exchanged for new certi˜cates by contacting 
Computershare at the address noted above.
Citi™s 2013 Form 10-K ˜led with the SEC, as well as other 
annual and quarterly reports, are available from Citi 
Document Services toll free at 877 936 2737 (outside the 

United States at 716 730 8055), by e-mailing a request to 
docserve@citi.com, or by writing to:
Citi Document Services
 540 Crosspoint Parkway
 Getzville, NY 14068
Stockholder Inquiries
Information about Citi, including quarterly earnings 
releases and ˜lings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission, can be accessed via its website at 
 www.citigroup.com. Stockholder inquiries can also be 
directed by e-mail to shareholderrelations@citi.com.
www.citigroup.com
© 2014 Citigroup Inc.
1124924
 CIT24022
 03/14
Take a closer look at Citi with 
the digital Annual Report: 
 citi.com/annualreport
